{"id": "13663006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13663006", "title": "4–4–5 calendar", "text": "4–4–5 calendar\n\nThe 4–4–5 calendar is a method of managing accounting periods, and is a common calendar structure for some industries such as retail and manufacturing.\n\nThe 4–4–5 calendar divides a year into four quarters of 13 weeks grouped into two 4-week \"months\" and one 5-week \"month\". The grouping of 13 weeks may also be set up as 5–4–4 weeks or 4–5–4.\n\nWhen this type of calendar is in use, reports with month-by-month comparisons or trends are flawed as one month is 25% longer than the other two. It could still compare a period to the same period in the prior year, or use week by week data comparisons.\n\nIts major advantage over a regular calendar is that the end date of the period is always the same day of the week, which is useful for shift or manufacturing planning as every period is the same length.\n\nA disadvantage of the 4–4–5 calendar is that it has only 364 days (7 days x 52 weeks), meaning a 53rd week will need to be added every five or six years: this can make year-on-year comparison difficult.\n\nThe 52–53-week fiscal year is a variation on the 4–4–5 calendar. It is used by companies that desire that their fiscal year always end on the same day of the week. Any day of the week may be used, and Saturday and Sunday are common because the business may more easily be closed for counting inventory and other end-of-year accounting activities. There are two methods in use:\n\nUnder this method the company's fiscal year is defined as the final Saturday (or other day selected) in the fiscal year end month. For example, if the fiscal year end month is August, the company's year end could fall on any date from August 25 to August 31. In particular, the last fiscal week is the one that includes August 25 and the first fiscal week of the following year is the one that includes September 1. In this scenario, fiscal years would end on the following days:\n\nThe end of the fiscal year moves one day earlier on the calendar each year (or two days when there is an intervening leap day) until it would otherwise reach the date seven days before the end of the month (August 24 in this case) or earlier. At that point it resets to the end of the month (August 31) or earlier and the fiscal year has 53 weeks instead of 52. In this example the fiscal years ending in 2013, 2019, and 2024 have 53 weeks.\n\nUnder this method the company's fiscal year is defined as the Saturday (or other day selected) that falls closest to the last day of the fiscal year end month. For example, if the fiscal year end month is August, the company's year end could fall on any date from August 28 to September 3. In particular, the last fiscal week is the one that includes August 28 and the first fiscal week of the following year is the one that includes September 4. In this scenario, fiscal years would end on the following days:\n\nThe end of the fiscal year moves one day earlier on the calendar each year (or two days when there is an intervening leap day) until it would otherwise reach the date four days before the end of the month (August 27 in this case) or earlier. At that point the first Saturday in the following month (September 3 or earlier in this case) becomes the date closest to the end of August and it resets to that date and the fiscal year has 53 weeks instead of 52. In this example the fiscal years ending in 2016, 2022, and 2028 have 53 weeks.\n\nThe 52–53 week method is permitted by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, by US Internal Revenue Code Regulation 1.441-2 (IRS Publication 538)., as well as the International Financial Reporting Standards.\n\n"}
{"id": "33277726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33277726", "title": "A Behavioral Theory of the Firm", "text": "A Behavioral Theory of the Firm\n\nThe behavioral theory of the firm first appeared in the 1963 book \"A Behavioral Theory of the Firm\" by Richard M. Cyert and James G. March. The work on the behavioral theory started in 1952 when March, a political scientist, joined Carnegie Mellon University, where Cyert was an economist.\n\nBefore this model was formed, the existing theory of the firm had two main assumptions: profit maximization and perfect knowledge. Cyert and March questioned these two critical assumptions.\n\n\"A behavioral model of rational choice\" by Herbert A. Simon paved the way for the behavioral model.\nNeo-classical economists assumed that firms enjoyed perfect information. In addition the firm maximized profits and did not suffer from internal resource allocation problems.\n\nAdvocates of the behavioral approach also challenged the omission of the element of uncertainty from the conventional theory. The behavioral model, like the managerial models of Oliver E. Williamson and Marris,\nconsiders a large corporate business firm in which the ownership is separate from the management.\n\nThese researchers offered four major research themes:\n\nThe behavioral approach takes the firm as the basic unit of analysis. It attempts to predict behaviour with respect to price, output and resource allocation decisions. It emphasizes the decision making process.\n\nThe theory argues that while small firms may operate under the guidance of the entrepreneur, such a simple model does not describe larger corporations. These larger firms are coalitions of individuals or groups, which may include managers, stockholders, workers, suppliers and so on.\n\nAccording to Cyert and March, these groups participate in setting goals and making decisions. Priorities and information may vary by group, potentially creating conflicts. Cyert and March mentioned five goals which real world firms generally possess: production; inventory; market share; sales and profits.\n\nAccording to the behavioral theory, all the goals must be satisfied, following an implicit order of priority among them.\n\nCyert and March proposed that real firms aim at satisficing rather than maximizing their results. I.e., some groups may settle for \"good enough\" achievements rather than striving for the best possible outcome. This came from a concept known as bounded rationality, which was developed by Herbert Simon.\nBounded rationality means prudent behaviour under a given set of circumstances.\n\nIn this model goals are not set to maximize relevant magnitudes such as profits,sales and market share. Instead, goals are compromises negotiated by the groups.\n\nIn the model, top management sets the goals of the organization. But these goals are implemented through decision making at two levels, one at the top and the second at lower management levels. During approval of proposals of various departments, two criteria are generally employed. A financial measure assesses the availability of the required funds given resources. An improvement measure assesses whether the proposal improves the health of the organization. According to Cyert and March, information is required to take the most appropriate decisions. However, information gathering itself is not costless and requires resources.\n\nTo keep the various groups in the organization, payments had to be in excess of what was required for the efficient working of the firm. The difference between the total resources and the necessary payments is called the organizational slack. In conventional economic theory organizational slack is zero, at least at equilibrium. Cyert and March claim that organizational slack plays a stabilizing and adaptive role.\n\nCyert and March gave many examples of organizational slack such as high dividends paid to shareholders, prices set lower than necessary and wages paid in excess of those required.\n\nThe behavioral model made a great impact on the theory of the firm. It gave insights in the process of goal formation and fixation of aspiration levels and resource allocation. Its critics claim that the theory is unnecessarily complicated. The virtual assembly of the firm, with the decision making process as the unit, for the purpose of predicting their behaviour is highly questioned by critics. There has also been staunch support for profit maximization rather than satisficing behaviour, which is one of the core elements of the model.\n\nThe behavioral theory of the firm has become important for much later research in organization theory and management, and has led to empirical studies and simulation modeling in organizational learning, as well as work on the cognitive foundations of firm strategy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47644466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47644466", "title": "Aberdeen International Business Park", "text": "Aberdeen International Business Park\n\nAberdeen International Business Park (AIBP) is a major commercial building project located on the south eastern edge of Aberdeen International Airport, at Dyce, with direct road links to the Scottish motorway network, and close to Dyce railway station. The park's 40 acres will eventually provide up to 92,000 sq m of development, including offices, shops, leisure facilities and at least one 4-star hotel.\n\nAIBP's first phase set records in 2014 as Scotland's biggest single office-letting deal, after Norwegian oilfield services giant Aker Solutions leased 31,100 sq m of space, including its own purpose-built leisure facilities.\n\nThe current Phase 1 building includes:\n\nPlans for the Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route (AWPR) outlined in early 2013's Aberdeen Airport Master Plan, opened up access to 93 acres of farmland to the south east of the airport.\n\nAlso contained in the plan was the construction of a link road between Dyce Drive and the existing A96 as part of the expansion of Aberdeen Airport at Dyce, making this parcel more accessible both to the airport and the wider road network to the city of Aberdeen and beyond.\n\nThe Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route is now expected to be completed in Winter 2017 with the Craibstone and Dyce Junctions scheduled to open by Autumn 2016. The Balmedie to Tipperty section will follow by Spring 2017.\n\nThis dual carriageway should significantly reduce congestion and improve accessibility to the wider Dyce area. The City Council is also constructing a new six-lane Airport Link Road (ALR) connecting Aberdeen Airport and AIBP with the A96 and AWPR.\n\nAberdeen City Council's planning committee approved Aberdeen International Business Park’s first phase in June 2013, to include 27,400 sq m of office space and 3,700 sq m of leisure space, containing dining facilities, a day nursery, fitness amenities and a small shop.\n\nThe entire 31,100 sq m was leased to Norwegian oilfield services giant Aker Solutions in August 2014 in what was Scotland's single largest office leasing deal. The initial rent, under the 20-year lease, was struck at almost £8 million per annum.\"\n\nThe developer of AIBP is Abstract Group. The architect for Phase 1 was Keppie Design and the site contractors were Bowmer & Kirkland.\n\nIn May 2015, plans to relocate the Aberdeen Exhibition and Conference Centre from its current Bridge of Don site to a nearby plot at the junction of Dyce Drive and the main A96 trunk road, next to the Rowett Institute, were presented to the city council. AECC is Aberdeen's largest Conference Centre and home to the biennial Offshore Europe exhibition, a major conference in the global oil and gas calendar.\n\nThe £333 million project is a joint venture between Aberdeen City Council and developer Henry Boot. Work is expected to start by mid-2016, with completion in late 2018.\n\nA planning application for the second phase of building was submitted in March 2014 and the developers say they are looking to bring forward the next phases of the business park \"at an early stage\". When completed, AIBP 2 will comprise about 66,500 sq m in total with seven office buildings including at least one 6,600 sq m 4-star hotel, opposite Aberdeen Airport.\n\nOutline planning permission for two hotels on the site is currently before the City Council. There are also plans for more than 2,000 car-parking spaces linked to office premises.\n\nA nearby Park-and-Ride facility with 1,000 car parking spaces is also scheduled to open in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "38913954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38913954", "title": "Adnan Kassar", "text": "Adnan Kassar\n\nAdnan Kassar (Arabic: عدنان القصار; born 1930) is a Lebanese lawyer, businessman and politician, who served at different cabinet posts.\n\nKassar was born into a Sunni family in Beirut in 1930. He received a law degree from St. Joseph University in 1951.\n\nIn addition to being a lawyer, Kassar is a businessman, dealing finance investments. He has founded and owns various companies concerning trade, shipping and travel, and industry and chairman of Kassar Group. He is also shareholder with Walid Jumblatt in a cement manufacturing firm. Kassar served as the president of the Beirut Chamber of Commerce and Industry for nearly thirty years; to which he was elected in January 1972. In June 1997, he became the president of the Federation of Chambers of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture in Lebanon. From 1999 to 2000, he headed the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) based in Paris. On 1 January 2001, Richard McCormick, who served as his deputy at the ICC, succeeded Kassar as head of the ICC.\n\nIn January 2003, Kassar was appointed member of the patrons committee of the Anglo-Arab organisation. In addition, Kassar and his brother are shareholders of Fransabank, a large Lebanese commercial bank. Kassar is chairman of the bank. He is also chairman of the general union of Arab chambers of commerce, industry and agriculture and of Lebanon’s economic committees.\n\nIn October 2004, Kassar was appointed minister of economy and trade in the cabinet led by prime minister Omar Karami, replacing Marwan Hamadeh as economy minister. His tenure lasted until the year 2005, when Karami resigned from office due to the pressures exerted by Lebanese people as a protest over the assassination of Rafik Hariri. Kassar was succeeded by Demianos Khattah in the post. Later Kassar served as the minister of state in the cabinet led by prime minister Saad Hariri from November 2009 to 2011. Kassar was one of the cabinet members appointed by the Lebanese president Michel Suleiman.\n\nKassar has been regarded as a potential prime minister since the beginning of the 2000s. After the resignation of prime minister Najib Mikati in March 2013, Kassar himself also announced that he is a \"permanent\" candidate for this post. However, he was not supported by main factions such as the 14 March or 8 March alliances for the post.\n\nIn November 2017 an investigation conducted by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalism cited his name in the list of politicians named in \"Paradise Papers\" allegations.\n\n\nKassar has also been given other awards, including, Commander of the Order of La Pléiade and the prize of the Crans Montana Forum (2000).\n\nKassar was born to Wafiq Kassar, a prominent diplomat who served as Ambassador of Lebanon in Pakistan and Turkey. Kassar is married Raidaa Nathem AlMisqawi and has a daughter, Roula Kassar.\n"}
{"id": "58601194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58601194", "title": "AllOfUs", "text": "AllOfUs\n\nAllOfUs was an American progressive political action committee founded on September, 2016 by Yong Jung Cho, Max Berger, Waleed Shahid and former members of the Bernie Sanders presidential campaign, 2016. The organization formed with the goal of transforming the Democratic Party. In November, 1, 2016, AllOfUs was folded into the Justice Democrats.. \n\nAllOfUs launched a PAC WeWillReplaceYou in order to pressure Democrats into not cooperating with the Republican administration.\n"}
{"id": "51361360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51361360", "title": "Ari Lahti", "text": "Ari Lahti\n\nAri Lahti (born 1963) is a Finnish businessman and the owner of KuPS of the Veikkausliiga. He is the founder, owner, and chairman of Helsinki-based Ice Capital. He was formerly employed at the Bank of Finland, and was born in Leppävirta.\n"}
{"id": "2036707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036707", "title": "Boris Mikšić", "text": "Boris Mikšić\n\nBoris Mikšić (born 11 October 1948 in Zagreb) is a Croatian businessman and politician.\n\nMikšić was born in Zagreb, then part of SFR Yugoslavia. He graduated from the University of Zagreb Faculty of Mechanical Engineering and Naval Architecture in 1973. He then emigrated to the United States of America, settling in Minnesota where he gradually began his business, Cortec Corporation.\nOver the years he became one of the wealthiest Croatian Americans. He first ventured into the Croatian politics as an independent candidate in the 2003 parliamentary elections.\n\nIn 2005, he ran as an independent candidate on the Croatian presidential elections. His campaign was partially based on his autobiography \"Američki san dečka s Trešnjevke\" (American dream of a kid from Trešnjevka) that he had published in 1994 - creating image of a simple Zagreb youth, who fulfilled the American Dream. It was also based on his opposition to the ICTY and Eurosceptic views. His success story along with his self-funded American-style campaign brought a new perspective to many voters.\n\nOn 2 January, to the surprise of many, first election projections showed him as winning 2nd place, knocking the government's candidate Jadranka Kosor out of the race. Immediately, many commentators began to interpret his success as a protest vote against the Croatian political establishment, engulfed in corruption and being notoriously inefficient. As if Mikšić, already wealthy has been seen by voters as more decent and less corruptible candidate.\n\nFew hours later, new projections, based on the votes cast by Croatian citizens in neighboring Bosnia and Herzegovina, brought Jadranka Kosor to the 2nd place. Mikšić was surprised as was the most of Croatian public. At first he refused to accept results and blamed the failure on alleged vote fraud, and \"dead people voting\".\nHe called supporters to demonstrate on streets over the alleged fraud, inspired by the, at the time current, Orange Revolution in Ukraine. He later called off planned demonstrations, citing his respect for the law and wanting to prevent incident and possible casualties brought on by the protest.\n\nFollowing the presidential elections, Mikšić continued to challenge the results, bringing allegations of voter fraud. He requested vote recounts from Croatia's Constitutional Court stating that many deceased people were not only registered to vote but also cast votes in the election; a problem that the Croatian government has faced multiple times.\nHe continued to pursue Croatian politics, announcing his candidacy in local elections, including those for Zagreb City Assembly. Mikšić's campaigning appeared to have effect within the 2005 local elections. His slate did enter the Zagreb City Assembly, but with only three seats, which was fewer than he expected.\n\nMikšić entered into the Croatian presidential election, 2009–2010, but was eliminated in the first round with 2.1% of the vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "1885799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885799", "title": "Business valuation", "text": "Business valuation\n\nBusiness valuation is a process and a set of procedures used to estimate the economic value of an owner's interest in a business. Valuation is used by financial market participants \nto determine the price they are willing to pay or receive to effect a sale of a business. In addition to estimating the selling price of a business, the same valuation tools are often used by business appraisers to resolve disputes related to estate and gift taxation, divorce litigation, allocate business purchase price among business assets, establish a formula for estimating the value of partners' ownership interest for buy-sell agreements, and many other business and legal purposes such as in shareholders deadlock, divorce litigation and estate contest. In some cases, the court would appoint a forensic accountant as the joint expert doing the business valuation.\n\nBefore the value of a business can be measured, the valuation assignment must specify the reason for and circumstances surrounding the business valuation. These are formally known as the business value standard and premise of value.\n\nThe standard of value is the hypothetical conditions under which the business will be valued. The premise of value relates to the assumptions, such as assuming that the business will continue forever in its current form (going concern), or that the value of the business lies in the proceeds from the sale of all of its assets minus the related debt (sum of the parts or assemblage of business assets).\n\n\n\nPremise of value for fair value Calculation\n\nBusiness valuation results can vary considerably depending upon the choice of both the standard and premise of value. In an actual business sale, it would be expected that the buyer and seller, each with an incentive to achieve an optimal outcome, would determine the fair market value of a business asset that would compete in the market for such an acquisition. If the synergies are specific to the company being valued, they may not be considered. Fair value also does not incorporate discounts for lack of control or marketability.\n\nNote, however, that it is possible to achieve the fair market value for a business asset that is being liquidated in its secondary market. This underscores the difference between the standard and premise of value.\n\nThese assumptions might not, and probably do not, reflect the actual conditions of the market in which the subject business might be sold. However, these conditions are assumed because they yield a uniform standard of value, after applying generally accepted valuation techniques, which allows meaningful comparison between businesses which are similarly situated.\n\nA business valuation report generally begins with a summary of the purpose and scope of business appraisal as well as its date and stated audience. What follows is a description of national, regional and local economic conditions existing as of the valuation date, as well as the conditions of the industry in which the subject business operates.\nA common source of economic information for the first section of the business valuation report is the Federal Reserve Board's Beige Book, published eight times a year by the Federal Reserve Bank. State governments and industry associations also publish useful statistics describing regional and industry conditions.\n\nThe financial statement analysis generally involves common size analysis, ratio analysis (liquidity, turnover, profitability, etc.), trend analysis and industry comparative analysis. This permits the valuation analyst to compare the subject company to other businesses in the same or similar industry, and to discover trends affecting the company and/or the industry over time. By comparing a company's financial statements in different time periods, the valuation expert can view growth or decline in revenues or expenses, changes in capital structure, or other financial trends. How the subject company compares to the industry will help with the risk assessment and ultimately help determine the discount rate and the selection of market multiples.\n\nIt is important to mention that among the financial statements, the primary statement to show the liquidity of the company is cash flow.\nCash flow shows the company's cash in and out flow.\n\nThe key objective of normalization is to identify the ability of the business to generate income for its owners. A measure of the income is the amount of cash flow that the owners can remove from the business without adversely affecting its operations. The most common normalization adjustments fall into the following four categories:\n\nThree different approaches are commonly used in business valuation: the income approach, the asset-based approach, and the market approach. Within each of these approaches, there are various techniques for determining the value of a business using the definition of value appropriate for the appraisal assignment. Generally, the income approaches determine value by calculating the net present value of the benefit stream generated by the business (discounted cash flow); the asset-based approaches determine value by adding the sum of the parts of the business (net asset value); and the market approaches determine value by comparing the subject company to other companies in the same industry, of the same size, and/or within the same region. A number of business valuation models can be constructed that utilize various methods under the three business valuation approaches. Venture Capitalists and Private Equity professionals have long used the First chicago method which essentially combines the income approach with the market approach.\n\nIn certain cases equity may also be valued by applying the techniques and frameworks developed for financial options, via a real options framework, as discussed below.\n\nIn determining which of these approaches to use, the valuation professional must exercise discretion. Each technique has advantages and drawbacks, which must be considered when applying those techniques to a particular subject company. Most treatises and court decisions encourage the valuator to consider more than one technique, which must be reconciled with each other to arrive at a value conclusion. A measure of common sense and a good grasp of mathematics is helpful.\n\nThe income approach relies upon the economic principle of expectation: the value of business is based on the expected economic benefit and level of risk associated with the investment. Income based valuation methods determine fair market value by dividing the benefit stream generated by the subject or target company times a discount or capitalization rate. The discount or capitalization rate converts the stream of benefits into present value. There are several different income methods, including capitalization of earnings or cash flows, discounted future cash flows (\"DCF\"), and the excess earnings method (which is a hybrid of asset and income approaches). The result of a value calculation under the income approach is generally the fair market value of a controlling, marketable interest in the subject company, since the entire benefit stream of the subject company is most often valued, and the capitalization and discount rates are derived from statistics concerning public companies. IRS Revenue Ruling 59-60 states that earnings are preeminent for the valuation of closely held operating companies.\n\nHowever, income valuation methods can also be used to establish the value of a severable business asset as long as an income stream can be attributed to it. An example is licensable intellectual property whose value needs to be established to arrive at a supportable royalty structure.\n\nA discount rate or capitalization rate is used to determine the present value of the expected returns of a business. The discount rate and capitalization rate are closely related to each other, but distinguishable. Generally speaking, the discount rate or capitalization rate may be defined as the yield necessary to attract investors to a particular investment, given the risks associated with that investment.\n\n\nThere are several different methods of determining the appropriate discount rates. The discount rate is composed of two elements: (1) the risk-free rate, which is the return that an investor would expect from a secure, practically risk-free investment, such as a high quality government bond; plus (2) a risk premium that compensates an investor for the relative level of risk associated with a particular investment in excess of the risk-free rate. Most importantly, the selected discount or capitalization rate must be consistent with stream of benefits to which it is to be applied.\n\nCapitalization and discounting valuation calculations become mathematically equivalent under the assumption that the business income grows at a constant rate.\n\nThe capital asset pricing model (CAPM) provides one method of determining a discount rate in business valuation. The CAPM originated from the Nobel Prize-winning studies of Harry Markowitz, James Tobin, and William Sharpe. The method derives the discount rate by adding risk premium to the risk-free rate. The risk premium is derived by multiplying the equity risk premium with \"beta\", a measure of stock price volatility. Beta is compiled by various researchers for particular industries and companies, and measures systematic risks of investment.\n\nOne of the criticisms of the CAPM is that beta is derived from volatility of prices of publicly traded companies, which differ from non-publicly companies in liquidity, marketability, capital structures and control. Other aspects such as access to credit markets, size, and management depth are generally different, too. The rate build-up method also requires an assessment of the subject company's risk, which provides valuation of itself. Where a privately held company can be shown to be sufficiently similar to a public company, the CAPM may be suitable. However, it requires the knowledge of market stock prices for calculation. For private companies that do not sell stock on the public capital markets, this information is not readily available. Therefore, calculation of beta for private firms is problematic. The build-up cost of capital model is the typical choice in such cases.\n\nWith regard to capital market-oriented valuation approaches there are numerous valuation approaches besides the traditional CAPM model. They include, for example, the Arbitrage pricing theory (APT) as well as the Consumption-based Capital Asset Pricing Model (CCAPM). Furthermore, alternative capital market models were developed, having in common that expected return hinge on \"multiple\" risk sources and thus being less restrictive:\n\n\nNevertheless, even these models are not wholly consistent, as they also show market anomalies. However, the method of incomplete replication and risk covering come along without the need of capital market data and thus being more solid. Equally notable is the existence of investment based approaches, considering different investment opportunities and determining an investment program by means of linear optimization. Among them the approximative decomposition valuation approach can be found.\n\nThe Cost of Equity (Ke) is computed by using the Modified Capital Asset Pricing Model (Mod. CAPM)\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere:\n\nformula_2 = Risk free rate of return (Generally taken as 10-year Government Bond Yield)\n\nformula_3 = Beta Value (Sensitivity of the stock returns to market returns)\n\nformula_4 = Cost of Equity\n\nformula_5 = Market Rate of Return\n\nSCRP = Small Company Risk Premium\n\nCSRP= Company specific Risk premium\n\nThe weighted average cost of capital is an approach to determining a discount rate. The WACC method determines the subject company's actual cost of capital by calculating the weighted average of the company's cost of debt and cost of equity. The WACC must be applied to the subject company's net cash flow to total invested capital.\n\nOne of the problems with this method is that the valuator may elect to calculate WACC according to the subject company's existing capital structure, the average industry capital structure, or the optimal capital structure. Such discretion detracts from the objectivity of this approach, in the minds of some critics.\n\nIndeed, since the WACC captures the risk of the subject business itself, the existing or contemplated capital structures, rather than industry averages, are the appropriate choices for business valuation.\n\nOnce the capitalization rate or discount rate is determined, it must be applied to an appropriate economic income stream: pretax cash flow, aftertax cash flow, pretax net income, after tax net income, excess earnings, projected cash flow, etc. The result of this formula is the indicated value before discounts. Before moving on to calculate discounts, however, the valuation professional must consider the indicated value under the asset and market approaches.\n\nCareful matching of the discount rate to the appropriate measure of economic income is critical to the accuracy of the business valuation results. Net cash flow is a frequent choice in professionally conducted business appraisals. The rationale behind this choice is that this earnings basis corresponds to the equity discount rate derived from the Build-Up or CAPM models: the returns obtained from investments in publicly traded companies can easily be represented in terms of net cash flows. At the same time, the discount rates are generally also derived from the public capital markets data.\n\nThe Build-Up Method is a widely recognized method of determining the after-tax net cash flow discount rate, which in turn yields the capitalization rate. The figures used in the Build-Up Method are derived from various sources. This method is called a \"build-up\" method because it is the sum of risks associated with various classes of assets. It is based on the principle that investors would require a greater return on classes of assets that are more risky. The first element of a Build-Up capitalization rate is the risk-free rate, which is the rate of return for long-term government bonds. Investors who buy large-cap equity stocks, which are inherently more risky than long-term government bonds, require a greater return, so the next element of the Build-Up method is the equity risk premium. In determining a company's value, the long-horizon equity risk premium is used because the Company's life is assumed to be infinite. The sum of the risk-free rate and the equity risk premium yields the long-term average market rate of return on large public company stocks.\n\nSimilarly, investors who invest in small cap stocks, which are riskier than blue-chip stocks, require a greater return, called the \"size premium.\" Size premium data is generally available from two sources: Morningstar's (formerly Ibbotson & Associates') Stocks, Bonds, Bills & Inflation and Duff & Phelps' Risk Premium Report.\n\nBy adding the first three elements of a Build-Up discount rate, we can determine the rate of return that investors would require on their investments in small public company stocks. These three elements of the Build-Up discount rate are known collectively as the \"systematic risks.\" This type of investment risk cannot be avoided through portfolio diversification. It arises from external factors and affect every type of investment in the economy. As a result, investors taking systematic risk are rewarded by an additional premium.\n\nIn addition to systematic risks, the discount rate must include \"unsystematic risk\" representing that portion of total investment risk that can be avoided through diversification. Public capital markets do not provide evidence of unsystematic risk since investors that fail to diversify cannot expect additional returns.\n\nUnsystematic risk falls into two categories. One of those categories is the \"industry risk premium\". It is also known as idiosyncratic risk and can be observed by studying the returns of a group of companies operating in the same industry sector. Morningstar's yearbooks contain empirical data to quantify the risks associated with various industries, grouped by SIC industry code.\n\nThe other category of unsystematic risk is referred to as \"company specific risk.\" Historically, no published data has been available to quantify specific company risks. However, as of late 2006, new research has been able to quantify, or isolate, this risk for publicly traded stocks through the use of Total Beta calculations. P. Butler and K. Pinkerton have outlined a procedure which sets the following two equations together:\n\nTotal Cost of Equity (TCOE) = risk-free rate + total beta*equity risk premium\nTCOE = risk-free rate + beta*equity risk premium + size premium + company-specific risk premium\n\nThe only unknown in the two equations is the company specific risk premium.\n\nWhile it is possible to isolate the company-specific risk premium as shown above, many appraisers just key in on the total cost of equity (TCOE) provided by the following equation: TCOE = risk-free rate + Total beta*equity risk premium.\n\nIt is similar to using the market approach in the income approach instead of adding separate (and potentially redundant) measures of risk in the build-up approach. The use of total beta (developed by Aswath Damodaran) is a relatively new concept. It is, however, gaining acceptance in the business valuation community since it is based on modern portfolio theory. Total beta can help appraisers develop a cost of capital who were content to use their intuition alone when previously adding a purely subjective company-specific risk premium in the build-up approach.\n\nIt is important to understand why this capitalization rate for small, privately held companies is significantly higher than the return that an investor might expect to receive from other common types of investments, such as money market accounts, mutual funds, or even real estate. Those investments involve substantially lower levels of risk than an investment in a closely held company. Depository accounts are insured by the federal government (up to certain limits); mutual funds are composed of publicly traded stocks, for which risk can be substantially minimized through portfolio diversification.\n\nClosely held companies, on the other hand, frequently fail for a variety of reasons too numerous to name. Examples of the risk can be witnessed in the storefronts on every Main Street in America. There are no federal guarantees. The risk of investing in a private company cannot be reduced through diversification, and most businesses do not own the type of hard assets that can ensure capital appreciation over time. This is why investors demand a much higher return on their investment in closely held businesses; such investments are inherently much more risky. (This paragraph is biased, presuming that by the mere fact that a company is closely held, it is prone towards failure.)\n\nThe value of asset-based analysis of a business is equal to the sum of its parts. That is the theory underlying the asset-based approaches to business valuation. The asset approach to business valuation reported on the books of the subject company at their acquisition value, net of depreciation where applicable. These values must be adjusted to fair market value wherever possible.\nThe value of a company's intangible assets, such as goodwill, is generally impossible to determine apart from the company's overall enterprise value. For this reason, the asset-based approach is not the most probative method of determining the value of going business concerns. In these cases, the asset-based approach yields a result that is probably lesser than the fair market value of the business.\nIn considering an asset-based approach, the valuation professional must consider whether the shareholder whose interest is being valued would have any authority to access the value of the assets directly. Shareholders own shares in a corporation, but not its assets, which are owned by the corporation. A controlling shareholder may have the authority to direct the corporation to sell all or part of the assets it owns and to distribute the proceeds to the shareholder(s). The non-controlling shareholder, however, lacks this authority and cannot access the value of the assets. As a result, the value of a corporation's assets is not the true indicator of value to a shareholder who cannot avail himself of that value. The asset based approach is the entry barrier value and should preferably to be used in businesses having mature or declining growth cycle and is more suitable for capital intensive industry.\n\nAdjusted net book value may be the most relevant standard of value where liquidation is imminent or ongoing; where a company earnings or cash flow are nominal, negative or worth less than its assets; or where net book value is standard in the industry in which the company operates. The adjusted net book value may also be used as a \"sanity check\" when compared to other methods of valuation, such as the income and market approaches...\n\nThe market approach to business valuation is rooted in the economic principle of competition: that in a free market the supply and demand forces will drive the price of business assets to a certain equilibrium. Buyers would not pay more for the business, and the sellers will not accept less, than the price of a comparable business enterprise. The buyers and sellers are assumed to be equally well informed and acting in their own interests to conclude a transaction. It is similar in many respects to the \"comparable sales\" method that is commonly used in real estate appraisal. The market price of the stocks of publicly traded companies engaged in the same or a similar line of business, whose shares are actively traded in a free and open market, can be a valid indicator of value when the transactions in which stocks are traded are sufficiently similar to permit meaningful comparison.\n\nThe difficulty lies in identifying public companies that are sufficiently comparable to the subject company for this purpose. Also, as for a private company, the equity is less liquid (in other words its stocks are less easy to buy or sell) than for a public company, its value is considered to be slightly lower than such a market-based valuation would give.\n\nWhen there is a lack of comparison with direct competition, a meaningful alternative could be a vertical value-chain approach where the subject company is compared with, for example, a known downstream industry to have a good feel of its value by building useful correlations with its downstream companies. Such comparison often reveals useful insights which help business analysts better understand performance relationship between the subject company and its downstream industry. For example, if a growing subject company is in an industry more concentrated than its downstream industry with a high degree of interdependence, one should logically expect the subject company performs better than the downstream industry in terms of growth, margins and risk.\n\nGuideline Public Company method entails a comparison of the subject company to publicly traded companies. The comparison is generally based on published data regarding the public companies' stock price and earnings, sales, or revenues, which is expressed as a fraction known as a \"multiple.\" If the guideline public companies are sufficiently similar to each other and the subject company to permit a meaningful comparison, then their multiples should be similar. The public companies identified for comparison purposes should be similar to the subject company in terms of industry, product lines, market, growth, margins and risk.\n\nHowever, if the subject company is privately owned, its value must be adjusted for lack of marketability. This is usually represented by a discount, or a percentage reduction in the value of the company when compared to its publicly traded counterparts. This reflects the higher risk associated with holding stock in a private company. The difference in value can be quantified by applying a discount for lack of marketability. This discount is determined by studying prices paid for shares of ownership in private companies that eventually offer their stock in a public offering. Alternatively, the lack of marketability can be assessed by comparing the prices paid for restricted shares to fully marketable shares of stock of public companies.\n\nAs above, in certain cases equity may be valued by applying the techniques and frameworks developed for financial options, via a real options framework. For general discussion as to context see #\"Valuing flexibility\" under corporate finance, and Contingent claim valuation; for detail as to applicability and other considerations see #\"Limitations\" under real options valuation.\n\nIn general, equity may be viewed as a call option on the firm, and this allows for the valuation of troubled firms which may otherwise be difficult to analyse. The classic application of this approach is to the valuation of distressed securities, already discussed in the original Black-Scholes paper. Here, since the principle of limited liability protects equity investors, shareholders would choose not to repay the firm's debt where the value of the firm (as perceived) is less than the value of the outstanding debt; see bond valuation. Of course, where firm value is greater than debt value, the shareholders would choose to repay (i.e. exercise their option) and not to liquidate. Thus analogous to out the money options which nevertheless have value, equity will (may) have value even if the value of the firm falls (well) below the face value of the outstanding debt—and this value can (should) be determined using the appropriate option valuation technique. (A further application of this principle is the analysis of principal–agent problems; see contract design under principal–agent problem.)\n\nCertain business situations, and the parent firms in those cases, are also logically analysed under an options framework; see \"Applications\" under the Real options valuation references. Just as a financial option gives its owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a security at a given price, companies that make strategic investments have the right, but not the obligation, to exploit opportunities in the future; management will of course only exercise where this makes economic sense. Thus, for companies facing uncertainty of this type, the stock price may (should) be seen as the sum of the value of existing businesses (i.e., the discounted cash flow value) plus any real option value. Equity valuations here, may (should) thus proceed likewise. Compare PVGO.\n\nA common application is to natural resource investments. Here, the underlying asset is the resource itself; the value of the asset is a function of both quantity of resource available and the price of the commodity in question. The value of the resource is then the difference between the value of the asset and the cost associated with developing the resource. Where positive (\"in the money\") management will undertake the development, and will not do so otherwise, and a resource project is thus effectively a call option. A may (should) therefore also be analysed using the options approach. Specifically, the value of the firm comprises the value of already active projects determined via DCF valuation (or other standard techniques) and undeveloped reserves as analysed using the real options framework. See Mineral economics.\n\nProduct patents may also be valued as options, and the value of firms holding these patents — typically firms in the , , and sectors — can (should) similarly be viewed as the sum of the value of products in place and the portfolio of patents yet to be deployed. As regards the option analysis, since the patent provides the firm with the right to develop the product, it will do so only if the present value of the expected cash flows from the product exceeds the cost of development, and the patent rights thus correspond to a call option. See Patent valuation § Option-based method. Similar analysis may be applied to options on films (or other works of intellectual property) and the valuation of film studios.\n\nBesides mathematical approaches for the valuation of companies a rather unknown method includes also the cultural aspect. The so-called Cultural valuation method (Cultural Due Diligence) seeks to combine existing knowledge, motivation and internal culture with the results of a net-asset-value method. Especially during a company takeover uncovering hidden problems is of high importance for a later success of the business venture.\n\nThe valuation approaches yield the fair market value of the Company as a whole. In valuing a minority, non-controlling interest in a business, however, the valuation professional must consider the applicability of discounts that affect such interests.\nDiscussions of discounts and premiums frequently begin with a review of the \"levels of value\". There are three common levels of value: controlling interest, marketable minority, and non-marketable minority.\nThe intermediate level, marketable minority interest, is less than the controlling interest level and higher than the non-marketable minority interest level. The marketable minority interest level represents the perceived value of equity interests that are freely traded without any restrictions. These interests are generally traded on the New York Stock Exchange, AMEX, NASDAQ, and other exchanges where there is a ready market for equity securities. These values represent a minority interest in the subject companies – small blocks of stock that represent less than 50% of the company's equity, and usually much less than 50%.\nControlling interest level is the value that an investor would be willing to pay to acquire more than 50% of a company's stock, thereby gaining the attendant prerogatives of control. Some of the prerogatives of control include: electing directors, hiring and firing the company's management and determining their compensation; declaring dividends and distributions, determining the company's strategy and line of business, and acquiring, selling or liquidating the business. This level of value generally contains a control premium over the intermediate level of value, which typically ranges from 25% to 50%. An additional premium may be paid by strategic investors who are motivated by synergistic motives.\nNon-marketable, minority level is the lowest level on the chart, representing the level at which non-controlling equity interests in private companies are generally valued or traded. This level of value is discounted because no ready market exists in which to purchase or sell interests. Private companies are less \"liquid\" than publicly traded companies, and transactions in private companies take longer and are more uncertain. Between the intermediate and lowest levels of the chart, there are restricted shares of publicly traded companies.\nDespite a growing inclination of the IRS and Tax Courts to challenge valuation discounts, Shannon Pratt suggested in a scholarly presentation recently that valuation discounts are actually increasing as the differences between public and private companies is widening . Publicly traded stocks have grown more liquid in the past decade due to rapid electronic trading, reduced commissions, and governmental deregulation. These developments have not improved the liquidity of interests in private companies, however.\nValuation discounts are multiplicative, so they must be considered in order. Control premiums and their inverse, minority interest discounts, are considered before marketability discounts are applied.\n\nThe first discount that must be considered is the discount for lack of control, which in this instance is also a minority interest discount. Minority interest discounts are the inverse of control premiums, to which the following mathematical relationship exists:\nMID = 1 – [1 / (1 + CP)]\nThe most common source of data regarding control premiums is the Control Premium Study, published annually by Mergerstat since 1972. Mergerstat compiles data regarding publicly announced mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving 10% or more of the equity interests in public companies, where the purchase price is $1 million or more and at least one of the parties to the transaction is a U.S. entity. Mergerstat defines the \"control premium\" as the percentage difference between the acquisition price and the share price of the freely traded public shares five days prior to the announcement of the M&A transaction.\nWhile it is not without valid criticism, Mergerstat control premium data (and the minority interest discount derived therefrom) is widely accepted within the valuation profession.\n\nA \"discount for lack of marketability\" (DLOM) may be applied to a minority block of stock to alter the valuation of that block. \n\nAnother factor to be considered in valuing closely held companies is the marketability of an interest in such businesses. Marketability is defined as the ability to convert the business interest into cash quickly, with minimum transaction and administrative costs, and with a high degree of certainty as to the amount of net proceeds. There is usually a cost and a time lag associated with locating interested and capable buyers of interests in privately held companies, because there is no established market of readily available buyers and sellers.\n\nAll other factors being equal, an interest in a publicly traded company is worth more because it is readily marketable. Conversely, an interest in a private-held company is worth less because no established market exists. \"The IRS Valuation Guide for Income, Estate and Gift Taxes, Valuation Training for Appeals Officers\" acknowledges the relationship between value and marketability, stating: \"Investors prefer an asset which is easy to sell, that is, liquid.\"\n\nThe discount for lack of control is separate and distinguishable from the discount for lack of marketability. It is the valuation professional's task to quantify the lack of marketability of an interest in a privately held company. Because, in this case, the subject interest is not a controlling interest in the Company, and the owner of that interest cannot compel liquidation to convert the subject interest to cash quickly, and no established market exists on which that interest could be sold, the discount for lack of marketability is appropriate.\n\nSeveral empirical studies have been published that attempt to quantify the discount for lack of marketability. These studies include the restricted stock studies and the pre-IPO studies. The aggregate of these studies indicate average discounts of 35% and 50%, respectively. Some experts believe the Lack of Control and Marketability discounts can aggregate discounts for as much as ninety percent of a Company's fair market value, specifically with family-owned companies.\n\nRestricted stocks are equity securities of public companies that are similar in all respects to the freely traded stocks of those companies except that they carry a restriction that prevents them from being traded on the open market for a certain period of time, which is usually one year (two years prior to 1990). This restriction from active trading, which amounts to a lack of marketability, is the only distinction between the restricted stock and its freely traded counterpart. Restricted stock can be traded in private transactions and usually do so at a discount. The restricted stock studies attempt to verify the difference in price at which the restricted shares trade versus the price at which the same unrestricted securities trade in the open market as of the same date.\nThe underlying data by which these studies arrived at their conclusions has not been made public. Consequently, it is not possible when valuing a particular company to compare the characteristics of that company to the study data. Still, the existence of a marketability discount has been recognized by valuation professionals and the Courts, and the restricted stock studies are frequently cited as empirical evidence. Notably, the lowest average discount reported by these studies was 26% and the highest average discount was 40%.\n\nIn addition to the restricted stock studies, U.S. publicly traded companies are able to sell stock to offshore investors (SEC Regulation S, enacted in 1990) without registering the shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The offshore buyers may resell these shares in the United States, still without having to register the shares, after holding them for just 40 days. Typically, these shares are sold for 20% to 30% below the publicly traded share price. Some of these transactions have been reported with discounts of more than 30%, resulting from the lack of marketability. These discounts are similar to the marketability discounts inferred from the restricted and pre-IPO studies, despite the holding period being just 40 days.\nStudies based on the prices paid for options have also confirmed similar discounts. If one holds restricted stock and purchases an option to sell that stock at the market price (a put), the holder has, in effect, purchased marketability for the shares. The price of the put is equal to the marketability discount. The range of marketability discounts derived by this study was 32% to 49%. However, ascribing the entire value of a put option to marketability is misleading, because the primary source of put value comes from the downside price protection. A correct economic analysis would use deeply in-the-money puts or Single-stock futures, demonstrating that marketability of restricted stock is of low value because it is easy to hedge using unrestricted stock or futures trades.\n\nAnother approach to measure the marketability discount is to compare the prices of stock offered in initial public offerings (IPOs) to transactions in the same company's stocks prior to the IPO. Companies that are going public are required to disclose all transactions in their stocks for a period of three years prior to the IPO. The pre-IPO studies are the leading alternative to the restricted stock stocks in quantifying the marketability discount.\n\nThe pre-IPO studies are sometimes criticized because the sample size is relatively small, the pre-IPO transactions may not be arm's length, and the financial structure and product lines of the studied companies may have changed during the three year pre-IPO window.\n\nThe studies confirm what the marketplace knows intuitively: Investors covet liquidity and loathe obstacles that impair liquidity. Prudent investors buy illiquid investments only when there is a sufficient discount in the price to increase the rate of return to a level which brings risk-reward back into balance.\nThe referenced studies establish a reasonable range of valuation discounts from the mid-30%s to the low 50%s. The more recent studies appeared to yield a more conservative range of discounts than older studies, which may have suffered from smaller sample sizes. Another method of quantifying the lack of marketability discount is the Quantifying Marketability Discounts Model (QMDM).\n\nThe evidence on the market value of specific businesses varies widely, largely depending on reported market transactions in the equity of the firm. A fraction of businesses are \"publicly traded,\" meaning that their equity can be purchased and sold by investors in stock markets available to the general public. Publicly traded companies on major stock markets have an easily calculated \"market capitalization\" that is a direct estimate of the market value of the firm's equity. Some publicly traded firms have relatively few recorded trades (including many firms traded \"over the counter\" or in \"pink sheets\"). A far larger number of firms are privately held. Normally, equity interests in these firms (which include corporations, partnerships, limited-liability companies, and some other organizational forms) are traded privately, and often irregularly. As a result, previous transactions provide limited evidence as to the current value of a private company primarily because business value changes over time, and the share price is associated with considerable uncertainty due to limited market exposure and high transaction costs.\n\nA number of stock market indicators in the United States and other countries provide an indication of the market value of publicly traded firms. The Survey of Consumer Finance in the US also includes an estimate of household ownership of stocks, including indirect ownership through mutual funds. The 2004 and 2007 SCF indicate a growing trend in stock ownership, with 51% of households indicating a direct or indirect ownership of stocks, with the majority of those respondents indicating indirect ownership through mutual funds. Few indications are available on the value of privately held firms. Anderson (2009) recently estimated the market value of U.S. privately held and publicly traded firms, using Internal Revenue Service and SCF data. He estimates that privately held firms produced more income for investors, and had more value than publicly held firms, in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "44675672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44675672", "title": "Chua Cheng Bok", "text": "Chua Cheng Bok\n\nChua Cheng Bok () was one of Malaysia’s most prominent businessmen in the first half of the 20th century, and opened the region’s first cinema. He was born in Malacca in 1880 as the second son of an immigrant family coming from Fukien, (Fujian Province). His father Mr. Chua Toh started his life as nutmeg dealer in his young age. He had five sons: Chua Cheng Tuan (the eldest), Chua Cheng Bok, Chua Cheng Hee, Chua Cheng Hock and Chua Cheng Liat. Chua Toh died in 1908 and was buried in Bukit Cina.\n\nFollowing his older brother, Chua Cheng Tuan, Chua Cheng Bok worked for Riley, Hargreaves and Co and Federated Engineering for a few years. They started their first business, Federal Stores, before forming the Cycle and Carriage in Kuala Lumpur on July 15, 1899. In the early 1900s, the Cycle and Carriage business was successful. It opened a branch under the name of C&C Co in Singapore in 1926.\n\nChua Cheng Bok was a philanthropist. Some famous buildings built by him are the oldest cinema in Malaysia, the Coliseum Theater and Café in Jalan Petaling, Kuala Lumpur, the Chua Cheng Bok Building in Ipoh, and Bok House in Jalan Ampang (demolished in 2006). Bok House was known for a story that it was built for the daughter of rich man in order to impress her father. The statement later was rejected by one of Mr. Chua’s great-grandchildren Mr. Chua Wye Man. One of his final acts was making a donation to upgrade the equipment for the Chua Cheng Bok Ward of the Chinese Maternity Hospital, Jalan Pudu.\nChua Cheng Bok died at the age of 61 on April 25, 1940 in his residence in Ipoh. He was cremated in Sam Poh Tong Cave temple.\n"}
{"id": "36723484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36723484", "title": "Commercial bribery", "text": "Commercial bribery\n\nCommercial bribery is a form of bribery which involves corrupt dealing with the agents or employees of potential buyers to secure an advantage over business competitors. It is a form of corruption which does not necessarily involve government personnel or facilities.\n\nOne common type of commercial bribery is the kickback. For example, a seller of goods or services from \"Company A\" who offers the purchasing manager of \"Company B\" a payment to his own account to help him secure a contract for Company B's continued business is engaging in a form of commercial bribery.\n\nOther related offenses are payola in the entertainment industry, match fixing in sports, corruption of labor union officials, and bid rigging in non-governmental contracts.\n\nThere is no federal statute that by its terms expressly prohibits commercial bribery, though it is mentioned as part of the definition of aggravated felony for the purposes of United States immigration law. It is usually punishable as a felony under state law, depending on circumstances, but only 36 U.S. states have laws specifically prohibiting commercial bribery. Among them are California, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, and Texas. However, the federal mail and wire fraud statutes can be used to prosecute commercial bribery as a \"scheme or artifice to defraud\" if the mail or interstate wire facilities are used. In addition, use of the mails or interstate travel or communication in furtherance of a violation of state commercial bribery laws may be prosecutable in Federal court under the Travel Act. As the penalties under the federal statutes may exceed the state penalties, and the federal investigative and enforcement agencies may have superior resources, often federal prosecution is favored.\n\nNew York's law against commercial bribery is contained in Article 180 of the state's penal code. It is one of the most extensive state laws against commercial bribery in the United States, and includes prohibitions against bribing labor officials, fixing sports contests, and rent gouging.\n\n"}
{"id": "39248723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39248723", "title": "Contract failure", "text": "Contract failure\n\nContract failure describes a situation in which the consumer of a good or service is unable to evaluate its quality, thus incentivizing the producer to produce a lower quality good or service. Such behavior creates suboptimal economic conditions. Contract failure is one explanation for the existence of non-profit organizations, although even non-profits can fall victim to contract failure in the right situations. Contract failure is related to, but distinct from, market failure. Generally, non-profit organizations are more trusted because their corporate structures do not provide incentives to cheat.\n\nThe known cause of contract failure is called information asymmetry; when one party (the producer) has more information than the other party (the consumer) about a product or service. There is information inequality between the two parties. According to Young, there are three causes in which situations dealing with asymmetric information arise from, to include the following, 1) the quality of a product or service is too complex to be judged such as medical care or higher education; 2) the end consumer of the product or service cannot evaluate it him or herself such as a child in daycare or an elderly individual in a nursing home; and 3) the product or service is not consumed by the individual who purchased it, therefore the purchaser would never know if the producer delivered what was promised.\n\nWhen contract failure occurs, there is a suboptimal provision of public goods, which results in market failure. Arrow argues that nonprofits will step in and provide the necessary good or service in response to market failure. When markets potentially take advantage of the information asymmetry situation, nonprofits must protect the consumer.\n\nAccording to Hansmann, the “non-distribution constraint - prohibits the distribution of residual earnings to individuals who exercise control over the firm”. It prohibits those who have a vested interest in the organization from receiving the organization’s profit for personal gain. This constraint is a common characteristic of nonprofits, which creates less of an incentive for the organization to take advantage of the consumer’s lack of knowledge. The nonprofit has no reason to cheat the consumer out of quality or service delivery because the organization's individuals cannot benefit directly. Therefore, the consumer is more likely to trust a nonprofit organization providing services than to trust a for-profit organization because of the nonprofit’s non-distribution constraint. According to Easley and O'Hara, state law stipulates that the organizations day-to-day costs should be reasonable.\n"}
{"id": "47526021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47526021", "title": "DNAinfo", "text": "DNAinfo\n\nDNAinfo was an online newspaper that focused on neighborhood news in New York City and Chicago. It was closed down by CEO and owner Joe Ricketts in November 2017 after writers in its New York branch voted to unionize, a move to which Ricketts was opposed.\n\nFounded by Joe Ricketts in November 2009 as \"Digital Network Associates\", DNAinfo.com began by offering online, hyperlocal coverage for New York City and online coverage for Chicago launched in November 2012. In December 2013, \"DNAinfo\" launched a print version coverage by the name, \"DNAinfo.com.\" The operational and editorial offices for \"DNAinfo\" were in New York and Chicago. \"DNAinfo\" is also a registered trademark.\n\nIn March 2017, DNAinfo purchased the New York media company Gothamist.\n\nOn November 2, 2017, Ricketts posted to both DNAinfo and the \"-ist\" network sites that both websites would immediately cease operations, a week after Gothamist writers voted to unionize with the Writers Guild of America, East. All content from all DNAinfo sites and all subsidiary sites were taken down. The next day, archives of the sites were returned to functionality. Ricketts's shutdown was criticized as being an act of retaliation after the two companies' workers had joined a union.\n"}
{"id": "54152196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54152196", "title": "Daniel McKorley", "text": "Daniel McKorley\n\nDaniel McKorley (born June 14, 1978) is a Ghanaian business magnate,founder and chief executive officer of McDan Group of Companies. He is a graduate of Business Management and has been a business entrepreneur for more than ten years. Mckorley was adjudged the Entrepreneur of the year - 2016 at the Ghana Aviation Awards.\n\nMckorley was born on June 14, 1978 in Labadi, Accra. He attended his primary school at the same community and further his education at the senior high level. After his High school education he gained admission to study at the University of Ghana but dropped out because he could not pay his school fees.\n\nHe holds Executive Masters in Business Administration (EMBA) and a Certificate degree in Entrepreneurship both from the Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA). He also holds diplomas in Leadership and Transport & Logistics. A commercially astute executive with a wealth of experience gained within the freight forwarding, haulage, logistics and private security industry, both locally & internationally has contributed an Honorary Doctorate Degree from Commonwealth University, London Business School, UK. Proven records of dramatically improving clearance & delivery times in the transport, haulage & logistic field whilst managing high value asset investments and adding value to customer’s overall experience.\n\nDaniel McKorley is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the McDan Group of Companies. He revealed that he dropped out of the University because he could not pay his school fees.Arguably one of the most successful businessmen in Ghana, Daniel McKorley could only attain a degree 15 years, after dropping out of the University of Ghana. He started the McDan Shipping Company which was established in November 1999, with headquartered in Accra and Branches in Tema and Takoradi.The company has a presence in over 2000 major air and sea ports worldwide due to a partnership with Universal Freight Organization, Cross Trades and World Cargo Alliance(WCA).\n\nMcKorley presented an air-conditioned Benz Bus (Sprinter) to the Ghana Tennis Federation at the McDan Tennis Open West African Championship at the Accra Stadium in May 2017. Daniel McKorley presented an amount of GHC10, 000 to the Sports Writers Association of Ghana (SWAG) in support of the 2017 SWAG Awards Night at the Banquet Hall of the State House.\n\n\nMr. McKorley is married to Mrs. Abigail McKorley with kids.\n\n"}
{"id": "44737999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44737999", "title": "David Consunji", "text": "David Consunji\n\nDavid Mendoza Consunji (October 18, 1921 – September 4, 2017) was a Filipino businessman and the chairman of a publicly listed holding firm, DMCI Holdings, Incorporated (). He was a former secretary of the Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications from 1970 to 1975, during the Marcos administration. In 2014, Forbes listed him as the 6th richest Filipino, with a net worth of US$3.9 billion.\n\nDavid enrolled at University of the Philippines in 1939 and took up civil engineering and graduated in 1946 and passed the board during the same year.\n\nAfter graduating he worked as teacher in Bataan and later a concrete inspector for Kuenzle and Streiff. David Consunji founded D.M. Consunji, Incorporated in 1954 and has become its Chairman since.\nIn 1995, he established the DMCI Holdings, Incorporated to consolidate the businesses.\n\nHe also served as the president of the Philippine Contractors Association, International Federation of Asian & Western Pacific Contractors' Association, Philippine Institute of Civil Engineers and Vice-President of the Confederation of International Contractors' Association.\nAside from these organizations, he was also the chairman of the Contractors Association, the Philippine Domestic Construction Board and the U.P Engineering Research and Development Foundation.\n\nConsuji's death was announced on September 4, 2017. He was 95. His cause of death was not disclosed.\n\nConsunji wrote his autobiography, \"A Passion to Build: A Memoir of David M. Consunji\". His son, Isidro Consunji is currently the president of the DMCI Holdings, Incorporated. His grandson, Victor Consunji is married to Bb. Pilipinas World Maggie Wilson on December 2010.\n"}
{"id": "42530100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42530100", "title": "David Henry Jr.", "text": "David Henry Jr.\n\nDavid Henry Jr. is a merchant banker and industrialist heir of the Henry Family of New Zealand.\n\nKnown as \"Junior\" within the family, he is named after Sir David Henry KBE, the Scots New Zealand industrialist who founded New Zealand Forest Products. He is the grandson of forestry industrialist and company director Jack Henry and the son of well-known New Zealand barrister, Brian Henry.\n\nHe attended King's College, Auckland and graduated from the University of Auckland with a bachelor's degree in Finance and Law. In 1993, it was reported in newspapers and in Ian Wishart's book, the Paradise Conspiracy, that he was the subject of a failed kidnap attempt from the King's School.\n\nDavid Jr. is a co-founder of Medea Capital Partners Limited, a London-based natural resources merchant bank.\n\n"}
{"id": "31302632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31302632", "title": "Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto", "text": "Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto\n\nDella mercatura e del mercante perfetto written by Benedetto Cotrugli around 1400 was the first bookkeeping manuscript and trade manual. The title has been translated in English by the alternate names of \"Of commerce and the perfect merchant\", \"On merchantry and the perfect merchant\", and \"On trade and the perfect dealer.\"\n\nSeveral historians show that, since the manuscript was written in 1458, it is the oldest known manuscript on the double-entry bookkeeping system, and, as such, predates Luca Pacioli's book by at least 36 years. It is widely thought that the reason why Luca Pacioli (1445–1517) received credit as the father of accounting is because Cotrugli's work was not officially published until 1573. An Italian version was published in Venice in 1573 by Franciscus Patricius. A French translation of this manuscript was published in Lyon in 1613 under the title \"Parfait négociant.\"\n\nAn early copy of \"Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto\" from the end of the fifteenth century is at the National Library of Malta. Another early copy is at Biblioteca Marciana in Venice.\nThe first English translation of the Libro de l'arte de la mercatura (The Book of the Art of Trade) edited by Carlo Carraro and Giovanni Favero, with a foreword by Niall Ferguson, Professor of History at Harvard University, has been published by Palgrave Mcmillan in 2017, based on the critical edition of the original manuscripts made by Vera Ribaudo, University of Venice, published on May 2016 by Edizioni Cà Foscari, Venice. \n\nThe manuscript contains four books. The first is of the origin, form, and essence of being a merchant. The second talks of a merchant's religious commitment. The third is of moral virtues and policies. The fourth is administration of his home and family, and his economic matters.\n\nAt the time of the manuscript merchandising was regarded as an art. The \"Perfect Merchant\" or \"Perfect Dealer\" was a man of culture motivated \nto good moral conduct and honest transactions to everyone he encountered. He had to be very sensitive to local interests in places where he conducted business. He had to know how to assess the political situation and the customary laws in order to successfully conduct his business. Kotruljević wrote in his bookkeeping and merchandising trade manual that not only must a merchant be a bookkeeper-accountant, but that he must also be a good writer, a rhetorician and a man of letters being diplomatic all the while.\n\nHe contrasted the \"Perfect Merchant\" to sailors and soldiers by saying that they were many times naive of these points. He said they were of such dull mind that when they would drink in a tavern and buy bread at a market they often had delusions of grandeur and were not very diplomatic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12278528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12278528", "title": "Deoxidization", "text": "Deoxidization\n\nDeoxidization is a method used in metallurgy to remove the oxygen content during steel manufacturing. In contrast, antioxidants are used for stabilization, such as in the storage of food. Deoxidation is important in the steelmaking process as oxygen is often detrimental to the quality of steel produced. Deoxidization is mainly achieved by adding a separate chemical species to neutralize the effects of oxygen or by directly removing the oxygen.\n\nOxidation is the process of an element losing electrons. For example, iron will transfer two of its electrons to oxygen, forming an oxide. This occurs all throughout as an unintended part of the steelmaking process.\n\nOxygen blowing is a method of steelmaking where oxygen is blown through pig iron to lower the carbon content. Oxygen forms oxides with the unwanted elements, such as carbon, silicon, phosphorus, and manganese, which appear from various states of the manufacturing process. These oxides will float to the top of the steel pool and remove themselves from the pig iron. However, some of the oxygen will also react with the iron itself.\n\nDue to the high temperatures involved in smelting itself, oxygen in the air may dissolve into the molten iron while it is being poured. Slag, a byproduct left over after the smelting process, is used to further absorb impurities such as sulfur or oxides and protect steel from further oxidation. However, it can still be responsible for some oxidation.\n\nSome processes, while still able to lead to oxidation, are not relevant to the oxygen content of steel during its manufacture. For example, rust is a red iron oxide that forms when the iron in steel reacts with the oxygen or water in the air. This usually only occurs once the steel has been in use for varying degrees of time. Some physical components of the steelmaking process itself, such as the electric arc furnace, may also wear down and oxidize. This issue is typically dealt with by the use of refractory metals, which are resistant to change.\n\nIf steel is not properly deoxidized, it will have reduced various properties such as tensile strength, ductility, toughness, weldability, polishability, and machinability. This is due to forming non-metallic inclusions and gas pores, bubbles of gas that get trapped during the solidification process of steel.\n\nThis method of deoxidization involves adding specific metals into the steel. These metals will react with the unwanted oxygen, forming a strong oxide that, compared to pure oxygen, will reduce the steel's strength and qualities by a lesser amount.\n\nThe chemical equation for deoxidization is represented by:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere n and m are coefficients, D is the deoxidizing agent, and O is oxygen.\n\nThus, the chemical equilibrium equation involved is:\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere a is the activity, or concentration, of the oxide in the steel,\na is the activity of the deoxidizing agent,\nand a is the activity of the oxygen.\n\nAn increase in the equilibrium constant K will cause an increase in a, and thus more of the oxide product.\n\nK can be manipulated by the steel temperature via the following equation:\n\nformula_3\n\nwhere A and B are parameters specific to different deoxidizers and T is the temperature in K°. Below are the values for certain deoxidizers at a temperature of 1873 K°.\nBelow is a list of commonly used metallic deoxidizers:\n\nVacuum deoxidation is a method which involves using a vacuum to remove impurities. A portion of the carbon and oxygen in steel will react, forming carbon monoxide. CO gas will float up to the top of the liquid steel and be removed by a vacuum system.\n\nAs the chemical reaction involved in vacuum deoxidation is:\n\nformula_4\n\nthe reaction between carbon and oxygen is represented by the following chemical equilibrium equation:\n\nformula_5\n\nwhere P is the partial pressure of the carbon monoxide formed.\n\nDecreasing the oxygen activity(a) will result in a higher equilibrium constant, thus more product, CO. To achieve this, subjecting the pool of steel to vacuum treatment decreases the value of P, allowing for more CO gas to be produced.\n\nThis method relies on the idea that deoxidation of slag will lead to the deoxidation of steel.\n\nThe chemical equilibrium equation used for this process is:\n\nformula_6\n\nwhere a is the activity of the oxygen in the slag, and a is the activity of oxygen in the steel.\n\nReducing the activity in the slag (a) will lower the oxygen levels in the slag. Afterwards, oxygen will diffuse from the steel into the lesser concentrated slag. This method is done by using deoxidizing agents on the slag, such as coke or silicon. As these agents do not come into direct contact with the steel, non-metallic inclusions will not form in the steel itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "2938198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2938198", "title": "Edith Rockefeller McCormick", "text": "Edith Rockefeller McCormick\n\nEdith Rockefeller McCormick (August 31, 1872 – August 25, 1932) was an American socialite and opera patron.\n\nShe was born on August 31, 1872, the fourth daughter of schoolteacher Laura Celestia \"Cettie\" Spelman (1839–1915) and Standard Oil co-founder John Davison Rockefeller. Her brother was John Davison Rockefeller Jr. (1874–1960). Her three elder sisters were Elizabeth (Bessie) (1866–1906), Alice (1869–1870), and Alta (1871–1962).\n\nEdith and her father had an often stormy relationship, where her extravagance would often conflict with his frugality.\n\nShe married Harold Fowler McCormick, a son of Chicago's mechanical reaper inventor Cyrus Hall McCormick and Nancy Fowler, in 1895. The married couple spent their first two years living in Council Bluffs, Iowa. They later moved to Chicago. Her country estate, located directly on Lake Michigan in Lake Forest, Illinois and named Villa Turicum, was designed by Charles A. Platt and had extensive architecturally landscaped gardens.\n\nA famous story about McCormick involves an evening in 1901 during a party. News arrived that Edith and Harold's elder son, John Rockefeller McCormick, had died of scarlet fever. It was rumored that when this was whispered to her at the dinner table, she proceeded to merely nod her head and allowed the party to continue without incident. A biographer of her father, however, makes it clear that this could not have been true: at the time of her son's death, Edith was with him at the family estate, Kykuit, at Pocantico Hills, New York. A year later, she and her husband established the John McCormick Institution of Infectious Diseases in Chicago, a source of funding for the researchers who later isolated the bacterium responsible for the disease.\n\nIn 1913 she travelled to Zurich to be treated for depression by Carl Gustav Jung, and contributed generously to the Zürich Psychological Society. In 1919. McCormick donated land she had received from her father as a wedding gift to the Forest Preserve of Cook County, to be developed as a zoological garden, later to become Chicago's Brookfield Zoo. She returned to America in 1921 after an eight year stay.\n\nEdith and Harold were divorced in December 1921. He was given custody of their youngest daughter Mathilde so that she could marry Max Oser, a Swiss riding instructor. Mathilde and Max were married in London in April 1923. Meanwhile, Harold married Ganna Walska, a famous Polish opera singer in August 1922. Within days of Harold's remarriage, Edith announced plans to marry Edward Krenn, a 28 year old Austrian architect. The plan fell through for undisclosed reasons in December 1922. In 1927, she was mentioned in a newspaper article about Chicago's wealthy unmarried, divorced, and widowed wealthy women. The article noted that she was \"glad to be rid of the gay Harold McCormick, but hasn't succeeded in convincing her friends she will never marry again.\" Over the next few years, Edith and Harold frequently found themselves in court in lawsuits over the divorce agreement.\n\nIn February 1923 she received some minor press for claiming to be the reincarnation of the wife of King Tutankhamen, whose tomb had just been explored and was a popular topic. She was quoted as saying, \"I married King Tutankhamen when I was only sixteen years old. I was his first wife. Only the other day, while glancing through an illustrated paper, I saw a picture of a chair removed from the King's chamber. Like a flash I recognized that chair. I had sat in it many times.\" She followed up in Time magazine by stating \"My interest in reincarnation is of many years' standing.\" She was also said to be interested in astrology and to celebrate Christmas on December 15.\n\nIn 1925, she and other wealthy Chicago women including Miss Helen M. Bennett, Mrs. John V. Farwell, Mrs. Silas Strawn, Mrs. John Alden Carpenter, Mrs. B.F. Langworthy, Mrs. Florence Fifer Bohrer, and Mrs. Medill McCormick sponsored an international exposition to celebrate the progress and achievements of American women – The first Woman's World's Fair, which was held at the American Exposition Palace on Lake Michigan in April 1925, and was held again each year in Chicago in April or May from 1926 to 1928. A local paper noted, of the first fair, that \"One feature of the exhibit will be a collection of newspaper and magazine clippings, from various countries during the last 200 years emphasizing the storm of protest which greeted every suggestion for a freer social status for women.\" Newspaper articles mention organizing troubles that caused it to be cancelled in 1929. It was not held thereafter.\n\nIn 1930 Edith had a growth removed from her breast and died of cancer two years later. She and two of her children, John and Editha, are buried in Graceland Cemetery in Chicago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23195763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23195763", "title": "Emirates business model", "text": "Emirates business model\n\nThe so-called \"Emirates business model\" is the business model that lies at the heart of Emirates's commercial success. Its main ingredients are a lean workforce comparable to a low-cost carrier and a flat organisational structure that allows the airline to maintain low overhead costs.\n\nSome industry analysts believe the airline is second only to Ryanair on a cash cost per seat basis due to lower operating costs at its Dubai base. This enables it to serve secondary destinations profitably by connecting these via its global hub in Dubai.\n\nEmirates has not joined any global airline alliance (although they planned to join Star Alliance in 2000, they remained independent), stating that unless an airline is the lead participant in such an alliance – e.g. Lufthansa in the Star Alliance or Air France in SkyTeam – individual alliance members' freedom of action is compromised by the imposition of common alliance goals that mainly serve the interests of the alliance leaders.\n\nEmirates operates an all-widebody fleet, largely composed of Airbus A380s and Boeing 777s. This results in lower unit costs compared to other large airlines operating a mix of narrow- and widebody fleets and allows the airline to use the aircraft's cargo capacity to increase its revenues and total profits. Since Dubai International Airport does not have any night flying restrictions, Emirates achieves a higher utilisation of its aircraft than competitors. It also has lower staff costs than longer established rivals, because in Dubai there are no unions and there is an abundance of cheap labour from India and Pakistan.\n\nThe established network carriers in Europe, Canada and Australasia, i.e. Air France–KLM, Lufthansa, British Airways, Air Canada, Qantas and Air New Zealand, perceive Emirates' strategic decision to reposition itself as a global carrier as a major threat because it allows air travellers to bypass traditional airline hubs such as London–Heathrow, Paris–Charles-de-Gaulle, Frankfurt and Amsterdam Schiphol on their way between Europe/North America and Asia/Australia by changing flights at Dubai instead.\n\nSome of these carriers, notably Air France and Qantas, have accused Emirates of receiving hidden state subsidies and of maintaining too cozy a relationship with Dubai's airport authority and its aviation authority, both of which are also wholly state-owned entities that share the same government owner with the airline. They also allege that Emirates is able to reduce its borrowing costs below market rates by taking advantage of its government shareholders' sovereign borrower status. They claim that this government support cross-subsidises the airline, masking its true financial performance.\n\nMany airlines have accused Emirates of receiving fuel subsidies from the Government of Dubai. The airline has denied these accusations, stating that it purchases its fuel at the same price, as well as on the same terms and conditions, as every other commercial airline at all airports at which it operates. In FY 2007/08, fuel accounted for more than 30% of Emirates total expenditure, comparable with other international long-haul carriers such as British Airways, Lufthansa, Qantas or Singapore Airlines.\n\nEmirates has also defended itself against competitor accusations claiming it pays discounted airport user charges at its home base. The airline rejected these claims, stating that it paid the same user charges at Dubai as everyone else, which were similar to those prevailing at other comparable airports in the region, including Abu Dhabi, Doha, and Bahrain.\n\nMany airlines have accused Emirates of having an unfair advantage, since it does not have to pay local taxes. The airline rejects these claims as misleading by clarifying that in the absence of income or corporate taxes in the UAE all airlines operating to and from Dubai benefit from this tax-free environment. In this context, Emirates also stresses that it has paid the Government of Dubai dividends to the tune of US$776 million, in return for US$10 million in seed capital gifted to the airline at its inception in 1985.\n\nEmirates robustly defends itself against recurring claims accusing it of stealing other airlines' transfer passengers. It points out that its detractors have carried international passenger traffic between different third country points on their networks via their hub airports for decades, and that Emirates is entitled to do the same. Emirates furthermore points out that this enables it to offer regional passengers based in or near important secondary cities such as Glasgow, Newcastle, Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Nice, Venice, Brisbane or Perth convenient, worldwide one-stop connections via its global hub in Dubai.\n\nEmirates has countered rivals' frequent accusations that its ownership by the Government of Dubai amounted to a direct subsidy, representing an unfair competitive advantage not enjoyed by most other airlines, by stating that it was a fully fledged commercial enterprise run at arm's length from the Dubai government, despite being wholly owned by it.\n\nSome airlines have claimed that being based in Dubai gives Emirates an unfair labour cost advantage over other airlines. Emirates has countered this by stating that it faces the same costs to attract and retain staff recruited from around the world on expatriate terms and conditions as other airlines. The airline points out that the total cost of expatriate employee benefits amounts to more than US$400 million per annum.\n\nEmirates started flying to Canada on 29 October 2007, operating three weekly non-stop services on the Dubai–Toronto route.\n\nEmirates has experienced very high capacity factors on its Canadian services, averaging 90% since the start of operations between Toronto and Dubai. This has already resulted in substitution of an Airbus A380-800 \"superjumbo\" for the smaller Boeing 777-300ER widebody originally used on this route. However, the current bilateral agreement between the UAE and Canada restricts Emirates to only three flights per week between Dubai and Canada. In addition to operating daily between Dubai and Toronto to give business and leisure passengers greater flexibility, the airline would like to add other cities such as Calgary and Vancouver to its UAE–Canada schedule. The Canadian Government has stated it does not see the need for more services in response to these requests.\n\nThe Canadian Government has claimed that Air Canada might be adversely affected by increased competition from Emirates and that this could undermine its viability. Emirates has refuted these claims, stating that there was no direct competitive overlap between it and Air Canada, since the latter (before 2015) did not operate services to the UAE or to any points in the Middle East, Africa or the Indian subcontinent, places where Emirates' flights are always busy. Emirates also stated that this would benefit Air Canada as many of Emirates' Canadian passengers were transferring to/from points on Air Canada's extensive North American network through its Toronto hub.\n\nEmirates commenced flights to Germany in July 1987 with the launch of scheduled services on the Dubai–Frankfurt route. As of 2009, Emirates operates 49 weekly passenger flights from Dubai to Germany, serving Frankfurt, Munich, Düsseldorf and Hamburg. Emirates also operates eleven weekly all-cargo flights from Dubai to Germany. Germany is Emirates' second-biggest market in Europe (after the United Kingdom), carrying over one million passengers between Dubai and Germany during the 2007/08 financial year.\n\nEver since 2007, Emirates wanted to fly to additional German cities, specifically Berlin and Stuttgart.\n\nIn March 2009, Lufthansa said that it saw a competitive imbalance between Emirates and itself in the Germany–Dubai air travel market, effectively accusing the UAE carrier of stealing its transfer passengers between North America, the Middle East, Africa, India and the Far East. It also alleged that there were material differences in handling fees at Dubai Airport and unequal opportunities for the two airlines in each other's home markets. The latter relates to Emirates' heavy reliance on so-called \"sixth freedom\" traffic rights that enable it to carry passengers, cargo and mail between Germany and third countries via its hub in Dubai to fill most of the space on its Germany–Dubai flights, as a result of there being insufficient origin and destination traffic.\n\nEmirates has countered Lufthansa's claims by pointing out that its proposed German expansion would result in a \"win-win\" situation for both sides that would actually grow the German economy through additional economic activity generated, as a result of stimulating the air transport market between the two countries.\n\nAn order of Germany's Federal Office for Goods Transport to Emirates to desist from price leadership on routes leaving Germany for non–European-Union (EU) destinations and forcing it to raise relevant business class fares by up to 20% has been the focus of the latest disagreement between the UAE carrier on one hand and the German government and Lufthansa on the other. Despite the Federal Office for Goods Transport's insistence that it has not singled out Emirates unfairly by demanding similar remedial action of other airlines regarding fares charged on non-EU routes out of Germany, Andrew Parker, Emirates' Senior Vice-President, denied any knowledge of this being the case. He termed the German Federal Office for Goods Transport's decision \"anti-consumer\" and \"commercially nonsensical\". He also threatened to seek redress from the European Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "30305432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30305432", "title": "Foresight (psychology)", "text": "Foresight (psychology)\n\nForesight is the ability to predict, or the action of predicting, what will happen or what is needed in the future. Studies suggest that much of human daily thought is directed towards potential future events. Because of this and its role in human control on the planet, the nature and evolution of foresight is an important topic in psychology. Recent neuroscientific, developmental, and cognitive studies have identified many commonalities to the human ability to recall past episodes. \"Science\" magazine selected new evidence for such commonalities one of the top ten scientific breakthroughs of 2007. However, there are fundamental differences between mentally travelling through time into the future (i.e., foresight) versus mentally travelling through time into the past (i.e., episodic memory).\n\nForesight has been classified as a behaviour (covert and/or overt) in management, a review, analysis, and synthesis of past definitions and usages of the foresight concept into a generic definition, in order to make the concept measurable.\n\nSpe\n\"Degree of analyzing present contingencies and degree of moving the analysis of present contingencies across time, and degree of analyzing a desired future state or states a degree ahead in time with regard to contingencies under control, as well as degree of analyzing courses of action a degree ahead in time to arrive at the desired future state.\"\n\nPrediction market are exchange-traded markets created for the purpose of trading the outcome of events. This economic theory is credited to economists Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek. Prediction Market gives the ability to aggregate information and make accurate predictions based on the Efficient Market Hypothesis, which states that assets prices are fully reflecting all available information. For instance, existing share prices always include all the relevant related information for the stock market to make accurate predictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "712775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=712775", "title": "Frank Bunker Gilbreth Sr.", "text": "Frank Bunker Gilbreth Sr.\n\nFrank Bunker Gilbreth (July 7, 1868 – June 14, 1924) was an American engineer, consultant and author, known as early advocate of scientific management and a pioneer of time and motion study, and is perhaps best known as the father and central figure of \"Cheaper by the Dozen\".\n\nBoth he and his wife Lillian Moller Gilbreth were industrial engineers and efficiency experts who contributed to the study of industrial engineering in fields such as motion study and human factors.\n\nGilbreth was born in Fairfield, Maine on July 7, 1868. He was the third child and only son of John Hiram Gilbreth and Martha Bunker Gilbreth. His mother had been a schoolteacher. His father owned a hardware store and was a stockbreeder. When Gilbreth was three and a half years old his father died suddenly from pneumonia.\n\nAfter his father's death his mother moved the family to Andover, Massachusetts to find better schools for her children. The substantial estate left by her husband was managed by her husband's family. By the fall of 1878 the money had been lost or stolen and Martha Gilbreth had to find a way to make a living. She moved the family to Boston where there were good public schools. She opened a boarding house since the salary of a schoolteacher would not support the family.\n\nGilbreth was not a good student. He attended Rice Grammar School, but his mother was concerned enough to teach him at home for a year. He attended Boston's English High School and his grades improved when he became interested in his science and math classes. He took the entrance examinations for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, but wanted his mother to be able to give up the boarding house. He decided to go to work rather than to college.\n\nRenton Widden, Gilbreth's old Sunday School teacher, hired him for his building company. He was to start as a laborer, learn the various building trades, and work his way up in the firm. In July 1885 at age 17 he started as a bricklayer's helper. As he learned bricklaying he noticed the many variations in the bricklayers' methods and efficiency. This began his interest in finding \"the one best way\" of executing any task. He quickly learned every part of building work and contracting and advanced rapidly. He took night school classes to learn mechanical drawing. After five years he was a superintendent, which allowed his mother to give up her boarding house.\n\nUsing his observations of workmen laying brick, Gilbreth developed a multilevel scaffold that kept the bricks within easy reach of the bricklayer. He began patenting his innovations with this \"Vertical Scaffold\". He developed and patented the \"Gilbreth Waterproof Cellar\". He began to make innovations in concrete construction. He also joined the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). After ten years and at age 27 he was the chief superintendent. When Widden was unwilling to make him a partner, he resigned to start his own company.\n\nGilbreth then became a building contractor, then an inventor with several patents, and finally a management engineer. He eventually became an occasional lecturer at Purdue University, which houses his papers.\n\nGilbreth discovered his vocation as a young building contractor when he sought ways to make bricklaying faster and easier. This grew into a collaboration with his wife, Lillian Moller Gilbreth, who studied the work habits of manufacturing and clerical employees in all sorts of industries to find ways to increase output and make their jobs easier. He and Lillian founded a management consulting firm, Gilbreth, Inc., focusing on such endeavors.\n\nThey were involved in the development of the design for the Simmons Hardware Company's Sioux City Warehouse. The architects had specified that hundreds of hardened concrete piles were to be driven in to allow the soft ground to take the weight of two million bricks required to construct the building. The \"Time and Motion\" approach could be applied to the bricklaying and the transportation. The building was also required to support efficient input and output of deliveries via its own railroad switching facilities.\n\nGilbreth married Lillian Evelyn Moller on October 19, 1904, in Oakland, California; they had 12 children. Their names were Anne Moller Gilbreth Barney (1905-1987), Mary Elizabeth Gilbreth (1906–1912), Ernestine Moller Gilbreth Carey (1908-2006), Martha Bunker Gilbreth Tallman (1909-1968), Frank Bunker Gilbreth Jr. (1911-2001), William Moller Gilbreth (1912-1990), Lillian Gilbreth Johnson (1914-2001), Frederick Moller Gilbreth (1916-2015), Daniel Bunker Gilbreth (1917-2006), John Moller Gilbreth (1919-2002), Robert Moller Gilbreth (1920-2007), and Jane Moller Gilbreth Heppes (1922-2006); there was also a stillborn daughter (1915) who was not named.\n\nGilbreth died of a heart attack on June 14, 1924, at age 55. He was at the Lackawanna railway station in Montclair, New Jersey, talking with his wife by telephone. Lillian outlived him by 48 years.\n\nGilbreth served in the U.S. Army during World War I. His assignment was to find quicker and more efficient means of assembling and disassembling small arms. According to Claude George (1968), Gilbreth reduced all motions of the hand into some combination of 17 basic motions. These included grasp, transport loaded, and hold. Gilbreth named the motions therbligs — \"Gilbreth\" spelled backwards with letters \"th\" transposed to their original order. He used a motion picture camera that was calibrated in fractions of minutes to time the smallest of motions in workers.\n\nTheir emphasis on the \"one best way\" and therbligs predates the development of continuous quality improvement (CQI), and the late 20th century understanding that repeated motions can lead to workers experiencing repetitive motion injuries.\n\nGilbreth was the first to propose the position of \"caddy\" (Gilbreth's term) to a surgeon, who handed surgical instruments to the surgeon as needed. Gilbreth also devised the standard techniques used by armies around the world to teach recruits how to rapidly disassemble and reassemble their weapons even when blindfolded or in total darkness.\n\nThe work of the Gilbreths is often associated with that of Frederick Winslow Taylor, yet there was a substantial philosophical difference between the Gilbreths and Taylor. The symbol of Taylorism was the stopwatch; Taylor was concerned primarily with reducing process times. The Gilbreths, in contrast, sought to make processes more efficient by reducing the motions involved. They saw their approach as more concerned with workers' welfare than Taylorism, which workers themselves often perceived as concerned mainly with profit. This difference led to a personal rift between Taylor and the Gilbreths which, after Taylor's death, turned into a feud between the Gilbreths and Taylor's followers. After Frank's death, Lillian Gilbreth took steps to heal the rift; however, some friction remains over questions of history and intellectual property.\n\nIn conducting their Motion Study method to work, they found that the key to improving work efficiency was in reducing unnecessary motions. Not only were some motions unnecessary, but they caused employee fatigue. Their efforts to reduce fatigue included reduced motions, tool redesign, parts placement, and bench and seating height, for which they began to develop workplace standards. The Gilbreths' work broke ground for contemporary understanding of ergonomics.\n\nFrank and Lillian Gilbreth often used their large family (and Frank himself) as guinea pigs in experiments. Their family exploits are lovingly detailed in the 1948 book \"Cheaper by the Dozen\", written by son Frank Jr. and daughter Ernestine (Ernestine Gilbreth Carey). The book inspired two films of the same name. The first, in 1950, starred Clifton Webb and Myrna Loy. The second, in 2003, starred comedians Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt, and bears no resemblance to the book, except that it features a family with twelve children, and the wife's maiden name is Gilbreth. A 1952 sequel titled \"Belles on Their Toes\" chronicled the adventures of the Gilbreth family after Frank's 1924 death. A later biography of his parents, \"Time Out For Happiness,\" was written by Frank Jr. alone in 1962.\n\nFrank and Lillian Gilbreth wrote in collaboration, but Lillian's name was not included on the title page until after she earned her PhD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54254097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54254097", "title": "Gérard Cohen", "text": "Gérard Cohen\n\nGérard Cohen (born February 19, 1953) is a Swiss private banker and patron of the arts. Between 1991 and 2016 he was managing director of HSBC Private Bank in Monaco.\n\nIn 1978 Cohen started his career at Republic National Bank of New York under Edmond Safra. In 1985 he became head of private banking for Banque Safra-Luxembourg and in 1991 head of Republic National Bank of New York. When the bank was acquired by HSBC in 1999 and renamed to HSBC Private Bank Monaco he became its managing director. In 2016 he resigned.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2014 he was a member of the international director council of the Guggenheim Museum, New York City, and from 2003 to 2014 of the Tate Modern, London. He currently is the director of the Helmut Newton Foundation, Berlin, the Grimaldi Forum, Monaco, as well as director of Princess Grace Foundation, New York.\n\nIn 1994 Cohen founded the International School of Monaco. He remains involved in the school and serves as chairman of the board of trustees.\n\nIn 2008 he has received the Order of Saint-Charles from Albert II, Prince of Monaco and in 2012 the Order of Cultural Merit (Monaco).\n\n"}
{"id": "52055872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52055872", "title": "Hosa Wells Okunbo", "text": "Hosa Wells Okunbo\n\nIdahosa (Hosa) Wells Okunbo (born 7 January 1958) is a Nigerian business magnate, investor, philanthropist and trained commercial pilot. He serves as either chairman or director on numerous company boards in Nigeria, spanning multiple business sectors such as the agro-allied, petroleum, telecommunications, power, real estate and banking industries.\n\nHosa Okunbo is a native of Edo State in the southern part of Nigeria. He was born in Benin City to the family of Reverend Robert Amos Okunbo, a clergyman, teacher and community leader. Okunbo had his primary education at Government Primary in Benin City, old Bendel State, now Edo State. He proceeded to Federal Government College, Warri, in 1971, where he sat for West African Senior School Certificate Examination. Okunbo is a native speaker of the Edo language, and a fluent speaker of English.\n\nOkunbo pursued a desire to become a pilot by studying at the Nigerian Civil Aviation Training Centre, Zaria, Kaduna State, and became a professional commercial pilot at the age of 21. He also attended ACME School of Aeronautics, Fort Worth Texas in 1983, where he obtained an Airline Transport Pilot License.\n\nUpon graduation, Okunbo became a professional commercial pilot, and was made a captain in 1983 at the age of 25. He was a flight captain with Intercontinental Airlines for about two years, then was employed by Okada Airlines for three years. In 1988, he retired from piloting at the age of 30, having logged over 7,000 hours of flight time, and ventured into private business.\n\nOkunbo established Hoslyn Ventures Nigeria , a company that was involved with procurement in the Nigerian petroleum sector. Hoslyn Ventures was an indigenous oilfield service company that was responsible for the Early Production Facility (EPF) project at Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) between 1998 and 2001.\n\nOkunbo is the founder and chairman of the following Nigerian companies:\n\nOkunbo is a director in the following companies:\n\nOkunbo is member of the Board of Directors of NatCom Development and Investment Ltd., which is the holding company Nigerian telecommunications giant NTEL.\n\nOkunbo received the Africa Titans Award in 2012, from the Congress of the United States in collaboration with the African Society Summit, in recognition of \"strides on behalf of Africa in the international arena.\" According to the letter announcing the award, Okunbo had been one of those \"who seek to project a new and hopeful light on Africa.\"\n\nIn November 2012, the University of Benin conferred Okunbo with an honorary Doctor of Science degree.\n\nOkumba was granted the \"Worthy Ambassador of Unity Award\" as an old student of Federal Government College, Warri in March 2016.\n\nOn October 2, 2014, the traditional ruler of the Edo people in Edo State, Oba Erediauwa, gifted Okunbo \"with the 'Traditional Beads' for being a worthy son of the ancient Kingdom.\"\n\nOkunbo is married with 11 children\n\n"}
{"id": "3489862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3489862", "title": "Howard Graham Buffett", "text": "Howard Graham Buffett\n\nHoward Graham Buffett (born December 16, 1954) is an American businessman, former politician, philanthropist, photographer, farmer, and conservationist. He is the middle child of billionaire investor Warren Buffett. He is named after Howard Buffett, his grandfather, and Benjamin Graham, Warren Buffett's favorite professor.\n\nHoward G. Buffett grew up in Omaha, Nebraska with two siblings: older sister Susan and younger brother Peter. He has been active in business, politics, agriculture, conservation, photography, and philanthropy. In August 1977, he married Marcia Sue Duncan. Also in 1977, he began farming in Tekamah, Nebraska. His father purchased the property for $760,000 and charged him rent. Howard later married Devon Morse, born Devon Armour Goss first husband Robert Moreton Morse, American construction engineering executive, born on December 6, 1937 in Pasadena, California, married December 29, 1966, divorced 1982. Children: Erin Christian, Heather Kirsten, Chelsea Armour, Megan Moreton). On October 14, 1983, they had a son, Howard Warren Buffett. Buffett currently resides in Decatur, Illinois, from where he oversees a family farm in Pana, Illinois and three foundation-operated research farms, including over 1,500 acres in Arizona, and 9,200 acres in South Africa. He is an advocate of no-till conservation agriculture.\n\nBuffett was Corporate Vice President and Assistant to the Chairman of Archer Daniels Midland Company from 1992 to 1995, Director of Archer Daniels Midland Company from 1991 to 1995, Director of the Board of Directors of The GSI Group from 1995 to 2001, Director of ConAgra Foods from 2002 to 2006, Director of Agro Tech Foods Ltd. until October 26, 2006, and Director at Sloan Implement. He became a Lindsay Corporation director in 1995, served as Chairman for a year from 2002 to 2003. and in 2008, announced he would let his term as a director expire in January 2010.\n\nHe is, , a director of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., and President of Buffett Farms.\n\nHoward G. Buffett has been a Director of The Coca-Cola Company since December 9, 2010. From 1993 to 2004 he was a director of Coca-Cola Enterprises, the world's largest Coca-Cola Bottler.\n\nIn December 2011, Warren Buffett told CBS News that he would like his son Howard to succeed him as Berkshire Hathaway's non-executive chairman.\n\nBuffett was a County Commissioner of Douglas County, Nebraska, from 1989 to 1992, and Chairman of the Nebraska Ethanol Authority and Development Board from 1989 to 1991.\n\nHe is a member of the Board of the Commission on Presidential Debates (the CPD).\n\nBuffett was sworn in as Sheriff of Macon County, Illinois on Friday, September 15, 2017. He was selected to fill the remaining term of office after the resignation of former Sheriff Thomas Schneider. Buffett has been an active volunteer with the Macon County Sheriff's Office for several years, having been appointed Undersheriff by Schneider. Buffett, through the Howard G. Buffett Foundation has donated several million dollars to various law enforcement agencies and projects throughout central Illinois.\n\nBuffett has published eight books on conservation, wildlife, and the human condition, and has written articles and opinion pieces for \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The Washington Post\". In 1996, Harvard published his thesis, \"The Partnership of Biodiversity and High-Yield Agricultural Production\".\n\nThe April 2014 edition of \"The Rotarian\" magazine featured an 8-page article covering a brief history of Buffett's organization and touching upon some past successes, current projects and future goals. [29]\n\nIn 2000, Buffett co-produced a book of photography with Colin Mead, \"Images of the Wild\", an information source for traveling to wildlife areas in North America and Africa.\n\nIn 2001, he wrote \"On The Edge: Balancing Earth's Resources\" which focused on preserving world biodiversity, species and habitats. Former Senator Paul Simon authored the foreword.\n\nIn 2002, Buffett wrote \"Tapestry of Life\", a compilation of portraits taken in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Ghana, India, and other countries with deep poverty and human need. Tom Brokaw authored the foreword. Also in 2002, he published \"Taking Care of Our World\", a book that teaches children about ecology.\n\nIn 2003, he co-wrote \"Spots Before Your Eyes\" with Ann van Dyk. The foreword was authored by Dr. Jane Goodall. \"Spots Before Your Eyes\" presents history and facts about the cheetah species.\n\nIn 2005, he published \"Threatened Kingdom: The Story of the Mountain Gorilla\" which provides information about the mountain gorilla's habitat and the challenges facing the species.\n\nIn 2009, he wrote \"Fragile: The Human Condition\" with the support of National Geographic. The foreword was authored by Shakira Mebarak. \"Fragile: The Human Condition\" is the documentation of life stories in sixty-five countries.\n\nIn 2013, he co-wrote the New York Times Bestseller \"Forty Chances: Finding Hope in a Hungry World\" with his son Howard Warren Buffett. The foreword was authored by Warren Buffett.\n\nIn 2018, he wrote \"Our 50-State Border Crisis: How the Mexican Border Fuels the Drug Epidemic Across America\", with a foreword by Heidi Heitkamp and a preface by Cindy McCain.\n\nBuffett serves or has served on the National Geographic Council of Advisors, World Wildlife Fund National Council, Cougar Fund, Illinois and Nebraska Chapters of the Nature Conservancy, Ecotrust, and the Africa Foundation. Buffett founded the Nature Conservation Trust, a non-profit Trust in South Africa to support cheetah conservation, the International Cheetah Conservation Foundation, and was a Founding Director of The Cougar Fund. In October 2007, Buffett was named a Goodwill Ambassador Against Hunger by the United Nations World Food Programme. He later joined the boards of the Barefoot Foundation and the ONE Campaign. In March 2010, Buffett became a member of the Eastern Congo Initiative founded by Ben Affleck. \"I joined Ben in this effort because I believe strongly in investing in sustainable solutions to humanitarian challenges,\" he said. The following year in 2011, Buffett teamed up with the Bridgeway Foundation to fund a program.\n\nAs the CEO and Chairman of the Howard G. Buffett Foundation, Buffett has traveled to over 130 countries to document the challenges of preserving biodiversity and providing adequate resources to support human demands. The Howard G. Buffett Foundation supports projects in the areas of agriculture, nutrition, water, humanitarian, conservation, and conflict/unaccompanied persons. The foundation focuses much of its funding on communities in Africa and Central America.\nIn 2007, the Foundation launched the Global Water Initiative with several organizations to address the declining fresh water supply and clean water to the world's poorest people.\nIn March 2014, The Howard G. Buffett Foundation(HGBF) donated USD $23.7 million (RAND 255 million), as part of a joint three-year initiative between HGBF, the Nature Conservation Trust (NCT) and South African National Parks (SANParks), to combat the poaching of Rhino in South Africa.\n\nBuffett has received the Order of the Aztec Eagle Award, the highest honor bestowed on a foreign citizen by the Mexican Government, an honorary PhD from Lincoln College and Honorary Doctorate of Human Letters from Penn State University. and has been recognized by the Inter-American Institute for Co-operation in Agriculture as one of the most distinguished individuals in agriculture. He has also won the Will Owen Jones Distinguished Journalist of the Year Award, World Ecology Award, George McGovern Leadership Award, National Farmers Union Meritorious Service to Humanity Award, Columbia University Global Leadership Award, Leader in Agriculture Award from Agriculture Future of America, and Special Service Award from the Association for International Agriculture and Rural Development, and the International Quality of Life Award. Buffet was among the nine people who were awarded the Igihango medal by Rwandan President Paul Kagame in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "301015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301015", "title": "Ilia Pavlov", "text": "Ilia Pavlov\n\nIliya Pavlov Naydenov () (August 6, 1960 - March 7, 2003) was a Bulgarian businessman. A banker, financier, philanthropist and mason, he was the leader and founder of the Multigroup organization and G-13. Pavlov was ranked the eighth richest man in Central and Eastern Europe by the Polish magazine Wprost in 2002. He was said to be worth $US1.5 billion. He was married to Darina Pavlova, who inherited his fortune after his murder.\n\nPavlov was shot outside his office with a single bullet to the heart by a sniper and died instantly. The day before his death, he had testified in the trial of the accused murderers of Andrey Lukanov, Bulgaria's first prime minister after the fall of communism who died in 1996. Pavlov had claimed that he had no conflict with Lukanov.\n\nNo one has been charged in Pavlov's murder and while several possible theories have been put forth the motive is unknown. A previous attempt on Pavlov's life was made in 1997 when a bomb destroyed his car. He was not in it at the time.\n\nIn 2010 Pavlov's sister, Slavka Naydenova, and her 8-year-old son were murdered in Dale City, Virginia. A Russian-American woman who was the wife of Naydenova's ex-husband pleaded guilty to the murders. The motive was jealousy.\n\nPavlov was a former Bulgarian wrestling champion who graduated from the National Sports Academy in Sofia.\n\n"}
{"id": "34215578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34215578", "title": "International Institute of Business (Ukraine)", "text": "International Institute of Business (Ukraine)\n\nInternational Institute of Business (IIB-Ukraine) - Ukrainian Business School\n\n1993 - International Institute of Business was founded in accordance with the Decree of Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers as a non-profit, independent training and educational institution by the President’s Ukrainian Academy of Public Administration office and Central European University Foundation. The first President of IIB was Dr. Henryk Sterniczuk, Professor of Management and International Business of the University of New Brunswick.\n\n1996 - IIB offers Ukrainian Program of Business Administration (UPBA) - the second higher education degree with majors in Marketing and Finance.\n\n1997 - IIB became the first educational institution in Central and Eastern Europe accredited as CIM (The Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK) study centre.\n\n1998 - IIB launches Canadian Business Management Diploma Program of MacEwan Business School (Grant MacEwan College, Edmonton, Alberta), which was prepared according to the intergovernmental cooperation program financed by Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).\n\n1999 - Ukrainian Program of Business Administration gets national accreditation by the Ministry of Education of Ukraine as a post-graduate higher education degree program.\n\n2000 - IIB starts nationwide projects \"Competitiveness-2000\" and \"Director of the Third Millennium\" for top-level managers of leading privatized Ukrainian enterprises. The projects were coordinated by the State Property Fund of Ukraine and financed by the World Bank.\n\n2001 - IIB becomes the only provider of REFA International programmes (Germany). \nExecutive MBA Program for top-managers and managing owners of growing Ukrainian companies was introduced.\n\n2002 - IIB becomes an associate member of the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD).\n\n2003 - IIB becomes a CIMA (The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK) registered course provider and accredited computer based assessment (CBA) centre.\n\n2004 - IIB becomes the first in Continental Europe accredited study centre of CIPR (the Chartered Institute of Public Relations, UK).\n\n2005 - In cooperation with the oldest English-speaking Canadian university – University of New Brunswick (UNB) - IIB introduces its International MBA, the first in CIS program with North American Master of Business Administration degree. \nIIB becomes a member of the Central and East European Management Development Association (CEEMAN)\n\n2007 - IIB MBA programs had been accredited by Association of MBAs\n\n2008 - IIB has established the Centre for Real Estate Development with the purpose to design and deliver educational programs for the professionals working in the area of real estate market.\n\n2009 - International Institute of Business took part in a survey, provided by EDUNIVERSAL and was recognized as Business School № 1 for credibility in the market of business education in Ukraine and international influence.\n\n2010 - International Institute of Business confirmed its status as the best business school of Ukraine, having been awarded the title “Excellent business school 2010”\n\n2011 - The Institute was accredited as a higher education institution of level III by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine.\n\nUkrainian Program in Business Administration (Second higher economic education with the following specializations) \n\nInternational MBA (for managers whose aim is developing their career in the global business environment)\n\nExecutive MBA (for company executives, top-managers, managing business owners)\n\n\n\nThe main tasks of the Centre include the following:\nForm of work of the Centre:\n\nThe IIB has built up experience in providing educational services in appraisal, and subsequently created its Appraisal Development Centre. The mission of this Centre is to facilitate the development of appraising activities in Ukraine through training appraisers and supporting them with information and methodology.\n\nMain activities:\n\nCentre of Corporate Social Responsibility and Business Ethics was created in International Institute of Business in 2010. The major goal of the Centre is stimulating institutional forms of CSR and business ethics development in Ukraine via arranging studying, consulting, holding researches, preparation of publications, and methodological recommendations.\nTasks:\n\nShort-term programs provide an opportunity to acquire new knowledge and its systematization in such areas as finance, marketing, operations and production management, human resource management. Programs are formed on the basis of world innovations and adapted to the modern Ukrainian market. The studying process is organized in the form of corporate trainings, business seminars, coaching, practical training sessions and workshops.\nSubjects of corporate and open programs:\n\n"}
{"id": "4708838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708838", "title": "Inventory turnover", "text": "Inventory turnover\n\nIn accounting, the Inventory turnover is a measure of the number of times inventory is sold or used in a time period such as a year. It is calculated to see if a business has an excessive inventory in comparison to its sales level. The equation for inventory turnover equals the cost of goods sold divided by the average inventory. Inventory turnover is also known as inventory turns, merchandise turnover, stockturn, stock turns, turns, and stock turnover.\n\nThe formula for inventory turnover:\n\nformula_1\n\nor\n\nformula_2\n\nor\n\nThe \"most basic\" formula for average inventory:\n\nor just\n\nMultiple data points, for example the average of the monthly averages, will provide a much more representative turn figure.\nThe average days to sell the inventory is calculated as follows:\n\nA low turnover rate may point to overstocking, obsolescence, or deficiencies in the product line or marketing effort. However, in some instances a low rate may be appropriate, such as where higher inventory levels occur in anticipation of rapidly rising prices or expected market shortages.\n\nConversely a high turnover rate may indicate inadequate inventory levels, which may lead to a loss in business as the inventory is too low. This often can result in stock shortages.\n\nSome compilers of industry data (e.g., Dun & Bradstreet) use sales as the numerator instead of cost of sales. Cost of sales yields a more realistic turnover ratio, but it is often necessary to use sales for purposes of comparative analysis. Cost of sales is considered to be more realistic because of the difference in which sales and the cost of sales are recorded. Sales are generally recorded at market value, i.e. the value at which the marketplace paid for the good or service provided by the firm. In the event that the firm had an exceptional year and the market paid a premium for the firm's goods and services then the numerator may be an inaccurate measure. However, cost of sales is recorded by the firm at what the firm actually paid for the materials available for sale. Additionally, firms may reduce prices to generate sales in an effort to cycle inventory. In this article, the terms \"cost of sales\" and \"cost of goods sold\" are synonymous.\n\nAn item whose inventory is sold (turns over) once a year has higher holding cost than one that turns over twice, or three times, or more in that time. Stock turnover also indicates the briskness of the business. The purpose of increasing inventory turns is to reduce inventory for three reasons.\n\nSome computer programs measure the stock turns of an item using the actual number sold.\n\nformula_7\n\nThe important issue is that any organization should be consistent in the formula that it uses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25854531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25854531", "title": "Justin Berkmann", "text": "Justin Berkmann\n\nJustin Berkmann (born December 1963), is a DJ and nightclub owner. He is the second son of Joseph Berkmann and his second wife, Jean Berkmann (née Barwis) and younger brother of Marcus Berkmann, an author. They were both educated at Highgate School in North London.\n\nBerkmann is the co-founder of the nightclub and brand, Ministry of Sound (now MSHK Group). Since its conception in 1991, the company has grown from a nightclub in London’s Elephant and Castle to a multi-media business. Berkmann's initial involvement was from January 1990 until May 1994, and he was resident DJ and Artistic Director during that period. He then rejoined in 2006 to build their franchise clubs in Singapore and Kuala Lumpur.\n\nIt was found out in August 2018 that Berkmann is 4th cousin once removed to Coronation Street actor Liam Bairstow who plays Alex Warner.\n\nBerkmann was introduced to house music by a friend, who recommended Farley \"Jackmaster\" Funk's track \"Funkin With the Drums Again\" to him. Berkmann soon started to DJ, and in 1986 he moved to New York City, where he visited the Paradise Garage, which he described as \"an amazing club. It had lights, darkness, music, quiet – everything you wanted. I thought it was the perfect template, so I came back to London in 1988, determined to do something similar\". He then spent a year looking for a suitable site, finding a car park in Elephant and Castle \"with a roof covered in pigeon poo\". He joined forces with entrepreneur James Palumbo and Humphrey Waterhouse at the end of 1989 and 21 months later they opened Ministry of Sound. Berkmann was in charge of booking the talent and being resident DJ until mid-1994. Berkmann sourced American DJ talent like Tony Humphries from the New York and Newark scenes (which centred on Club Zanzibar and the Paradise Garage).\nFollowing this, Berkmann continued to DJ. He rejoined Ministry of Sound in 2006 to assist with the design and sound installation in the Ministry of Sound, Singapore, later to become Venues Development Manager for MoS International, and co-creating the concept and design for their club in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia with Austen Derek.\n\nIn 2011, one of his older Ministry of Sound mixes was released in \"Live & Remastered\".\n"}
{"id": "36859117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36859117", "title": "Karl-Friedrich Scheufele", "text": "Karl-Friedrich Scheufele\n\nKarl-Friedrich Scheufele, born February 5, 1958 in Pforzheim in Germany, is Co-President of Chopard along with his sister, Caroline and President of La Chronométrie Ferdinand Berthoud. He is the son of Karl and Karin Scheufele, German entrepreneurs who acquired Chopard in 1963.\n\nIn 2005, he established the Fleurier Quality Foundation, an independent Swiss watch certification body, and founded the L.U.C.EUM watch museum in Fleurier a year later. \n\nHe set up a wine sales company, La Galerie des Arts du Vin, at the end of the 1990s and acquired a number of Caveaux de Bacchus boutiques in Switzerland. In 2012, he bought the Château Monestier-la-Tour wine estate, which produces 150,000 bottles per year in a variety of AOPs in France.\n\nKarl-Friedrich Scheufele was born in 1958 in Pforzheim in Germany, and grew up in the city of Pforzheim, where he lived until the age of 15. His parents were at the head of watchmaking company Eszeha, based in Pforzheim.\n\nIn 1963, his father, Karl, took over the Geneva-based watch manufacture Chopard. Since that time, the family has split its time between Germany and Switzerland.\n\nAt the age of 15, Karl-Friedrich left Germany for Switzerland and enrolled in the International School of Geneva (Ecolint) along with his sister Caroline. In 1973, he served an apprenticeship with a jeweler in Geneva, before studying at the Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne).\n\nKarl-Friedrich Scheufele joined Chopard in the 80s, spending successive periods in all departments. Caroline also went to work for the family business. \n\nAt the age of 22, he designed the company’s first sports watch. The St. Moritz is also the first model conceived by Karl-Friedrich. From that time, Karl-Friedrich built the Chopard business around watch making. \n\nLater, he founded a manufacture exclusively dedicated to the production of high precision mechanical movements. Chopard Manufacture was inaugurated in 1996 in Fleurier in the Val-de-Travers.\n\nIn 2001, Karl-Friedrich and his sister became Co-Presidents of the company. \n\nKarl-Friedrich Scheufele and Michel Parmigiani jointly set up the Fleurier Quality Foundation, an independent watch certification body. The Fleurier Quality label, which particularly certifies 100% Swiss manufacture, was established in 2005. \n\nIn 2006, Karl-Friedrich Scheufele inaugurated the L.U.CEUM watchmaking museum in Fleurier. \n\nToday, Karl-Friedrich is in charge of the Chopard Manufacture, the men's watches division and all business management aspects, including marketing, advertising and communication.\n\nWhile seeking to enrich the collection at the L.U.C.EUM watchmaking museum, Karl-Friedrich uncovered the history of watchmaker Ferdinand Berthoud (1727-1807). In 2006, Karl-Friedrich acquired the Ferdinand Berthoud brand. He registered the trade name under Chronométrie Ferdinand Berthoud in 2013 and launched it in 2015. \n\nIn 2016, Karl-Friedrich was awarded with the Aiguille d’Or prize (\"Golden Hand\"), the highest distinction awarded by Grand Prix de l’Horlogerie in Geneva, for a Ferdinand Berthoud watch. In November 2017, he won the same prize for Chopard's L.U.C Full Strike watch.\n\nAs a wine lover, alongside his work for Chopard, Karl-Friedrich established a wine sales company, La Galerie des Arts du Vin, in 1996. Three years later, he acquired the Caveau de Bacchus boutique and opened several boutiques across Switzerland\n\nIn 2012, Karl-Friedrich Scheufele acquired the Château Monestier-la-Tour in France, a wine estate in the region of Bergerac that comprises over 100 hectares including 30 hectares of vineyards of the Bergerac AOC appellation. In 2017, after having completed the renovation of its buildings and the restructuring of the vineyard, the estate obtained organic certification. It now produces 150,000 bottles in AOP Bergerac, Côtes de Bergerac and AOP Saussignac.\n\nKarl-Friedrich also collects vintage cars, a passion he shares with his father. In 1987, Karl-Friedrich discovered the Mille Miglia, a classic car rally that runs from Brescia to Rome. He completed this 1,600 km race with his father. The following year, he set up a partnership between Chopard and Mille Miglia, and the company became the official race sponsor. Since that time, he has taken part in each edition, often with racing driver Jacky Ickx. A few years later, he created further partnerships with the Grand Prix de Monaco Historique and with Porsche Motorsport.\n"}
{"id": "7217068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7217068", "title": "List of Arab companies", "text": "List of Arab companies\n\nThis is a list of companies based in the Arab World by country:\nThe following is a list of companies based in the Arab World having the greatest market capitalization. This list is based on the Forbes Middle East Top 100 rankings. All figures are in USD billions.\n"}
{"id": "57872935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57872935", "title": "List of Honeywell products and services", "text": "List of Honeywell products and services\n\nHoneywell offers a number of products and services across its four business groups: Aeropsace, Home and Building Technologies (HBT), Safety and Productivity Solutions (SPS), and Performance Materials and Technologies (PMT). This is a partial list of products manufactured and services offered by Honeywell.\n\nAerospace produces integrated avionics systems, engines, navigation & radios, flight management services, and cockpit displays.\n\n\nHome and Building Technologies produces burglar alarms, Inncom hotel management systems, and a wide variety of sensors.\n\n\nSafety and Productivity Solutions produces Xtratuf footwear, voice-directed software solutions, and ruggedized handheld computers.\n\n\nPerformance Materials and Technologies produces Spectra Shield, Solstice refrigerants, and the Honeywell Connected Plant.\n\n"}
{"id": "20518313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20518313", "title": "List of Louis Blériot medal winners", "text": "List of Louis Blériot medal winners\n\nThe Louis Blériot medal is an aviation honor awarded by the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI), the international aviation record adjudicating body. The medal may be awarded up to three times every year to record setters in speed, altitude and distance categories in light aircraft. The award was established by 1936 in honor of Louis Blériot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37281812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37281812", "title": "Manel Guillen", "text": "Manel Guillen\n\nManel Guillen i Sola (born May 19, 1967 in Badalona, Spain) is a Spanish businessman, lawyer and activist investor.\n\nManel Guillen received a J.D in Law from the Law School of the University of Barcelona in 1991 and a MBA from the IESE Business School, University of Navarra in 1995.\nIn addition, he is an active member of the Il•lustre Col•legi d'Advocats de Barcelona ICAB, member of the Loan Syndication and Trading Association (LSTA), the Turnaround Management Association (TMA) and also member of the Cercle d'Economia de Barcelona.\n\nManel Guillen is the founder of the investment company Mediterranean Capital Management in 2005, acting as chief executive officer since its creation. Currently based in Barcelona and Madrid, Spain, he has developed his professional career in various senior management positions as chief executive officer (CEO) in several remarkable companies in Spain, the United States, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Iran, Germany, Austria and the UK.\n\nHe developed his professional career in the German media corporation Bertelsmann Group, acting as Sales & Marketing deputy director in the book company Círculo de Lectores, a reference in the Spanish culture world. In 1997, he became the Managing Director of Bertelsmann Online in Spain & Latin America, a Joint Venture created by Planeta Corporación and Bertelsmann Group, based in New York, United States, and investment activities in all major Latin American countries. In 1999 he was appointed Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Telefónica B2B Construction for Spain & Latin America in Telefónica, the main Spanish telecommunications provider and one of the largest telecom companies in the world. He was also the chief executive officer (CEO) of BravoSolution España, part of the Italian multinational Italcementi Group.\n\nIn 2005 he founded the investment company Mediterranean Capital Management, serving as its CEO. Based in Barcelona, Spain, the Company is an active investor in the distressed debt market in Spain and Latin America, focusing its target investments in the distressed mortgage market and high yield corporate debt. With cumulative assets under management in excess of 500 M €, throughout his career he has lived and worked in several countries, such as Spain, the United States, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Iran, Germany, Austria and the UK.\n\nManel Guillen's career is also linked to Spanish basketball. Former player and professional basketball referee of men's professional basketball league in Spain, ACB, he has been for over fifteen years referee and executive member of the Spanish Basketball Clubs Association (ACB) acting from 2001 to 2004 as Chairman of the Referees Committee and the Referee's Director of the ACB.\n\n"}
{"id": "43356509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43356509", "title": "Michael Dunkley", "text": "Michael Dunkley\n\nMichael Henry Dunkley, JP, MP was born June 18, 1958. He was an MP and member general of the One Bermuda Alliance political party and an active businessman on the island.\n\nMr. Dunkley was the 12th Premier of Bermuda until his party, the One Bermuda Alliance (OBA), was defeated in a landslide victory for the Progressive Labour Party (PLP) on 18 July 2017. Dunkley resigned as leader of the OBA on 19 July 2017.\n\nDunkley is the son of Henry \"Bill\" Harlow Dunkley (1928-1975) and Marye Lee Dunkley (née O'Dea). He was educated at Saltus Grammar School in Bermuda, Trinity College School in Port Hope, Ontario, Canada, and graduated from University of Richmond and George Washington University in 1980.\n\nHe first entered politics in 1997 with his election to The House of Assembly in Bermuda. On December 17, 2012, the One Bermuda Alliance won the general election and Dunkley was appointed the Deputy Premier and Minister of Public Safety. He has been often recognized by the Best of Bermuda Gold Awards published by the Bermudian Magazine for his work in politics and in 2007 was voted \"Most Effective Politician.\"\n\nAs a businessman he is Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of Dunkley's Dairy, a milk processing plant and one of the island's largest food importers. Vice President of Island Properties Ltd, a property management company and is President of Dunkley's Management Holdings Ltd, a management consultant company.\n\nOn 19 July 2017 Michael Dunkley resigned as leader of the One Bermuda Alliance party, after having called a snap election and losing the election.\n\nOn 23 May 1981 he married Pamela and had 2 daughters (Christine and Brooke) with her. \n"}
{"id": "39545438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39545438", "title": "Michael Klein (businessman)", "text": "Michael Klein (businessman)\n\nMichael Klein (born 1951) is a Brazilian business executive. He is the CEO of the Brazilian chain of department stores, Casas Bahia, and a Member of the Board of Directors of Via Varejo, the parent company of Casas Bahia, Cnova and Ponto Frio. Michael's father, Samuel Klein, founded Casas Bahia in 1952.\n\nIn 2017, in its real-time ranking of the wealthiest people in Brazil, \"Forbes\" ranked him the 31st with a personal net worth of $1.5 billion.\n\nKlein and his family reside in Alphaville, a gated community situated in São Paulo.\n\nKlein graduated with a degree in Business Administration from Paes de Barros University, and completed his post-graduate studies at the Getulio Vargas Foundation. In 1969, he joined Casas Bahia as a Financial Manager. In 2009, Klein became CEO of the company after his father retired in Brazil. In 2010, he was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors of Via Varejo. His son, Raphael Oscar Klein, has served as a Member of the Board of Directors of Via Varejo.\n\nIn May 2013, it was announced that the Klein family, which owned 47% of Via Varejo, was planning to sell 16% of their stake in the company. In September 2013, Klein transferred 17.6 million of his shares of Via Varejo to his children, and as a result, his stake in the company has been reduced from 21.9% to 18%. 53.7 million common shares of the family's stake began trading on December 16, 2013. Via Varejo raised R$ 2.845 billion through a public offering of shares. Three quarters of the amount raised went to the Klein family, while the rest went to GPA. Ownership of the company has changed to GPA with 43.3%, the Klein family with 27.3%, and minority shareholders with 29.3%.\n\nIn June 2014, Cnova, a global e-commerce company with a total gross merchandise volume of $4.9 billion, was created through a joint venture between Casino, GPA, Via Varejo and Exito. Cnova will be directly owned 46.5% by Casino (including its subsidiary Exito) and 53.5% indirectly by GPA, Via Varejo and certain founding shareholders of Nova Pontocom. The Klein family hold a 5.98% stake in Cnova, which owns and operates the following online stores: Extra.com.br, Casasbahia.com.br, Pontofrio.com, Cdiscount.com.br, Barateiro.com, Pontofrio Atacado, and eHub.com.br.\n\nIn August 2014, it was announced that Klein may sell an amount of shares valued at R$3 billion of his stake in Via Varejo.\n\nIn May 2016, it was announced that Klein is interested in buying back control of Via Varejo.\n\nIn October 2016, it was revealed that the Steinhoff Group is in talks to buy the Klein family's stake in Via Varejo, in a deal that could reach R$1.5 billion.\n\nIn March 2017, it was reported that Klein is lining up a proposal with several investment funds to buy back control of Via Varejo. Under Klein's plan, he would become the majority shareholder of Via Varejo, with just over 50% of the shares, and would have autonomy in management.\n\nAs of January 2018, the Klein family hold a 25.35% stake in Via Varejo, which consists of the following individual stakes:\n\nIn May 2014, BR Properties, a Brazilian real estate investment firm, confirmed it was negotiating a sale of its assets with Klein. In July 2014, Grupo CB, the Klein family's holding company chaired by Michael Klein, purchased a real estate fund from BR Properties for R$606.65 million. The fund includes 26 C&A stores, a Brooksfield store, a Sendas store, a call centre, and offices on Paulista Avenue in downtown São Paulo, totaling 118,000 square meters of commercial space.\n\nIn March 2015, Grupo CB acquired five office properties occupied by Wells Fargo, totaling 1.6 million square feet across four Southern U.S. states.\n\nIn March 2016, Grupo CB opened a Mercedes-Benz dealership in Jundiai, São Paulo.\n\nToday, Grupo CB holds a R$6 billion portfolio. The portfolio includes 432 real estate properties, including stores, industrial warehouses, administrative complexes, offices and distribution centers, totaling over 2 million square meters of commercial space. Grupo CB's rental revenue is expected to be R$430 million in 2017.\n\nCB Air, an air taxi company founded by Klein in 2012, has received operational authorization from ANAC in January 2015. The company's fleet includes 15 business jets and helicopters, and 2 hangars in Campo de Marte Airport and Sorocaba Airport.\n\nIn September 2013, it was announced that Klein was in talks to purchase AVX Táxi Aéreo, an air taxi company owned by Eike Batista.\n\nIn April 2016, it was revealed that Neymar purchased a business jet from the Klein family for $9.1 million.\n\nIn August 2016, it was announced that Klein has made an offer for the purchase of Global Aviation, an air taxi company. Created in 1994, Global Aviation resulted from the merger of Reali Táxi Aéreo, Pássaro Azul and Global Táxi Aéreo. It operates a 25-aircraft fleet of planes and helicopters, as well as bases in Brazil’s top airports. It recently inaugurated a hangar in Sorocaba, São Paulo, with capacity for 17 aircraft where it offers runway services, aircraft management, medevac, shared ownership and aircraft sales, in addition to domestic and international private flights. On August 22, it was announced that Klein has purchased Global Aviation for R$70 million. The deal means CB Air will increase its fleet to 32 aircraft from 12, and will have combined revenues of R$200 million in 2017. In December 2016, it was announced that the National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) and the Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE) granted CB Air the green light for the acquisition of Global Aviation without restriction. The name of the new operator will be announced in the first quarter of next year and the new air taxi company will have a fleet of 34 aircraft including airplanes, helicopters and ten hangars and two heliports.\n\nAfter the merger of CB Air with Global Aviation, the company is now branded Icon Aviation. With a revenue forecast of R$160 million in 2017, Icon Aviation offers several services in the area of business aircraft, such as aircraft and helicopter charters, management, sale and purchase of aircraft, shared ownership, hangar and track services. The company has a fleet of 30 aircraft, including 22 airplanes and eight helicopters, as well as 10 hangars and 285 employees. The new brand will bring together all aviation companies that are now part of the group: CB Air Táxi Aéreo Ltda., Global Táxi Aéreo Ltda., Pássaro Azul Táxi Aéreo Ltda., SSR Assessoria e Prestação de Serviços Ltda., and Security Táxi Aéreo Ltda.\n"}
{"id": "31590822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31590822", "title": "Milk run", "text": "Milk run\n\nThe phrase milk run originated in World War II, when US Army Air Corps and RAF aircrews used it to describe any mission where minimal resistance from the enemy was expected.\n\nIn American culture, a milk run was literally the distribution of milk bottles by the milkman. On his daily route, the milkman simultaneously distributed the full bottles and collected the empty bottles from a previous delivery. After the completion of round trip, he returned with the empty bottles back to the starting point.\n\nIn the context of logistics, according to Winfrid Meusel, milk runs were any routes that originated by identifying potential circular tours, whereby the utilization of trucks could be increased and logistics costs could be reduced.\n\nIn the commercial airline industry, \"milk run\" has been used to describe multi-stop, regularly-scheduled flights performed by a single aircraft. Examples of such routes include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12342124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12342124", "title": "Morehead-Cain Scholarship", "text": "Morehead-Cain Scholarship\n\nThe Morehead-Cain Scholarship (originally the Morehead Scholarship) was the first merit scholarship program established in the United States, founded at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. It is named for its benefactors, John Motley Morehead III and the Gordon and Mary Cain Foundation. Modeled after the Rhodes Scholarship, the Morehead-Cain provides a full four-year scholarship covering tuition, books, room and board, a laptop computer, and four summer experiences known as the Morehead-Cain's Summer Enrichment Program. Nominees must be a competitive applicant to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and unmarried with no children.\n\nThe Morehead Scholarship was created in 1951 by the Morehead Foundation, when John Motley Morehead III, bequeathed to the University of North Carolina $130 million, commissioned the University's planetarium, and funded the John Motley Morehead Foundation. The Foundation and scholarship was renamed the Morehead-Cain in 2007 after the Gordon and Mary Cain Foundation contributed $100 million to the program.\n\nThe Summer Enrichment Program was established in 1974. It fully funds activities for students in four areas (Outdoor Leadership, Civic Collaboration, Global Perspective, and Professional Experience) which occur in the summers before their respective class year.\n\nThe summer before students enter the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, they participate in an NOLS or an Outward Bound course throughout the country in order to push themselves physically and mentally through a number of individual and group challenges.\n\nA relatively recent addition to the program is the development of the Civic Collaboration summer, in which teams of rising sophomores are placed in mid-sized US cities to partner with a governmental or community organization to help develop solutions to local and regional challenges. Previous placements have taken place in Albuquerque, New Mexico; St. Louis, Missouri; Louisville, Kentucky; and Chattanooga, Tennessee. \n\nBefore the student's Junior year they have an opportunity to design a summer that will bring them into contact with a global perspective or work environment. While many students travel abroad for this summer, other elect to remain in the United States to pursue global-minded work domestically. Students may pursue study abroad programs, traditional internships, purposeful travel, or other avenues for this summer\n\nThe final summer program encourages students to work in a professional capacity. Projects have ranged from policy work with the World Health Organization to investment banking and industry research with Goldman Sachs. This may be swapped with the Global Perspective option in the sequence of a student's summers in accordance with their individual four-year plan.\n\nThe selection process for the Morehead-Cain is extremely rigorous, with only three percent of each year's nominees selected as Morehead-Cain Scholars. High school seniors demonstrating exceptional impact and academic achievement from North Carolina and from select schools across the United States, Great Britain, Canada, and various other countries are eligible for the prestigious scholarship. Criteria for selection are:\n\n\nNotable alumni include ACC commissioner John Swofford; author Taylor Branch; U.S. Congressmen Jim Cooper and Mike McIntyre; Roy A. Cooper, Governor of North Carolina; Major League Baseball player Tyrell Godwin; historian Donald K. Gowan II; David Gardner, co-founder of the Motley Fool; Peter Blair Henry, Dean of New York University Stern School of Business; businesswoman Sallie Krawcheck, named by Forbes to its list of The World's 100 Most Powerful Women; Alan Murray, editor of Fortune magazine; Clive Stafford Smith, the human rights lawyer; Candice Woodcock, a contestant on and ; New York Times journalists Frank Bruni and Keith Bradsher; Broadway actor Kevin Massey; and Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health; Norman E. Sharpless, director of UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center; Richard Vinroot, former Mayor of Charlotte and North Carolina gubernatorial candidate; Jennifer Roberts, former Mayor of Charlotte; and Jessica Polka, Director of non-profit ASAPbio.\n"}
{"id": "52687659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52687659", "title": "One Enterprise Center", "text": "One Enterprise Center\n\nOne Enterprise Center is a skyscraper in Jacksonville, Florida. Located in the Northbank area of Downtown, tenants include Rayonier and CBRE Group. The building also shares a lobby with an adjacent Omni Hotel. The 21-floor structure was designed by Clark Tribble Harris & Li Architects and completed in 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "5461167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5461167", "title": "Pirsig's Metaphysics of Quality", "text": "Pirsig's Metaphysics of Quality\n\nThe Metaphysics of Quality (MoQ) is a theory of reality introduced in Robert Pirsig's philosophical novel, \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\" (1974) and expanded in \"\" (1991). The MoQ incorporates facets of Sophism, East Asian philosophy, pragmatism, the work of F. S. C. Northrop, and indigenous American philosophy. Pirsig argues that the MoQ is a better lens through which to view reality than the subjective/objective mindset that Pirsig attributes to Aristotle. The book \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\" references the Sanskrit doctrine of Tat Tvam Asi or \"Thou art that\" which asserts an existential monism as opposed to the subject–object dualism.\n\nThe Metaphysics of Quality originated with Pirsig's college studies as a biochemistry student at the University of Minnesota. He describes in \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\" that as he studied, he found the number of rational hypotheses for any given phenomenon appeared to be unlimited. It seemed to him this would seriously undermine the validity of the scientific method. His studies began to suffer as he pondered the question and eventually he was expelled from the university.\n\nAfter spending some time in Korea as a soldier, Pirsig concluded that Oriental philosophy was a better place to search for ultimate answers. On his return home from Korea, Pirsig read F. S. C. Northrop's book \"The Meeting of East and West\" which related Western culture to the culture of East Asia in a systematic way. In 1950, Pirsig continued his philosophical studies at Banaras Hindu University, where he came across the Sanskrit doctrine of \"Tat Tvam Asi\" —in his words, \"Thou art that, which asserts that everything you think you are (Subjective), and everything you think you perceive (Objective), are undivided. To fully realize this lack of division is to become enlightened.\" The nature of mystical experience plays an underlying role throughout his work.\n\nIn the late 1950s, Pirsig taught rhetoric at Montana State College – Bozeman and, with the encouragement of an older colleague, decided to explore what exactly was meant by the term \"quality\". He assigned his students the task of defining the word. This, coupled with a Native American Church peyote ceremony he attended with an anthropologist friend, James Verne Dusenberry, led Pirsig into what he called \"a mushroom cloud of thought.\" Pirsig began developing his ideas about quality in his first book, \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\", and expanded and codified his ideas into the MoQ in \"Lila\".\n\n\"Quality,\" or \"value,\" as described by Pirsig, cannot be defined because it empirically precedes any intellectual construction of it, namely due to the fact that quality (as Pirsig explicitly defines it) exists always as a perceptual experience before it is ever thought of descriptively or academically. Quality is the \"knife-edge\" of experience, found only in the present, known or at least potentially accessible to all of \"us\" (cf. Plato's \"Phaedrus\", 258d). Equating it with the Tao, Pirsig postulates that Quality is the fundamental force in the universe stimulating everything from atoms to animals to evolve and incorporate ever greater levels of Quality. According to the MoQ, everything (including ideas, and matter) is a product and a result of Quality.\n\nThe MoQ maintains that quality itself is undefinable (Tao), but to better understand it, Pirsig breaks quality down into two (\"knife-edge\") forms: static quality patterns (patterned) and dynamic quality (unpatterned). The four patterns of static value as well as dynamic quality account exhaustively for all of (\"knife-edged\") reality. As the initial (cutting edge) dynamic quality becomes habituated, it turns into static patterns (viz. data, expectations). It is important to note that Pirsig is not proposing a duality: quality is one, \"every last bit of it\", yet manifests itself differently. Rather than dualism, this manifestation of quality in terms of dynamic and static aspects represents a dialectical monism.\n\nDynamic quality cannot be defined. It can only be understood intellectually through the use of analogy. It can be described as the force of change in the universe; when an aspect of quality becomes habitual or customary, it becomes static. Pirsig calls dynamic quality \"the pre-intellectual cutting edge of reality\" because it can be recognized before it can be conceptualized. This is why the dynamic beauty of a piece of music can be recognized before a static analysis explaining why the music is beautiful can be constructed.\n\nPirsig defines static quality as everything which can be defined. Everything found in a dictionary, for instance, is static quality. These static forms, if they have enough high or low quality, are given names and are interchanged with other \"people\", building the base of knowledge for a culture. So some cultures divide between things other cultures perceive as equal (Pirsig gave as example the sounds of the Indian syllables \"dha\" and \"da,\" which are absolutely equal to western ears), and some cultures haven't any words for a specific meaning at all (for example, Spanish has no word for \"accountability\"). Pirsig divides static quality into inorganic, biological, social, and intellectual patterns, in ascending order of morality. \nPirsig describes evolution as the moral progression of these patterns of value. For example, a biological pattern overcoming an inorganic pattern (e.g. bird flight which overcomes gravity) is a moral thing because a biological pattern is a higher form of evolution. Likewise, an intellectual pattern of value overcoming a social one (e.g. civil rights) is a moral development because intellect is a higher form of evolution than society. Therefore, decisions about one's conduct during any given day can be made using the Metaphysics of Quality. It is important to note that Pirsig is not proposing criticism or responsibility, but acceptance, and pure absorption: \"When he wrote it he felt momentary fright and was about to strike out the words \"All of it. Every last bit of it.\" Madness there. I think he saw it. But he couldn’t see any logical reason to strike these words out and it was too late now for faintheartedness. He ignored his warning and let the words stand.\"-ZMM, Ch.20 \n\n\"Good is a noun. That was it. That was what Phaedrus had been looking for. That was the homer, over the fence, that ended the ball game. Good as a noun rather than as an adjective is all the Metaphysics of Quality is about. Of course, the ultimate Quality isn't a noun or an adjective or anything else definable, but if you had to reduce the whole Metaphysics of Quality to a single sentence, that would be it.\"-Lila, The End\n\n\"The language we've inherited confuses this. We say \"my\" body and \"your\" body and \"his\" body and \"her\" body, but it isn't that way. … This Cartesian \"Me,\" this autonomous little homunculus who sits behind our eyeballs looking out through them in order to pass judgment on the affairs of the world, is just completely ridiculous. This self-appointed little editor of reality is just an impossible fiction that collapses the moment one examines it.\"-ZMM, Ch.15\n\n\"Another immoral way of killing the static patterns is to pass the patterns to someone else, in what Phaedrus called a 'karma dump.' ... If you take all this karmic garbage and make yourself feel better by passing it on to others that's normal. That's the way the world works. But if you manage to absorb it and not pass [editor's emboldening] it on, that's the highest moral conduct of all.\"-Lila, Ch.32\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46739050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46739050", "title": "Profit from the Core", "text": "Profit from the Core\n\nProfit from the Core: Growth Strategy in an Era of Turbulence is a non-fiction book on business strategy by American business consultant Chris Zook with James Allen. This is the first book in his \"Profit from the Core\" trilogy. The book is followed by \"Beyond the Core\" released in 2004 and \"Unstoppable\" in 2007.\n\nThe authors posit that nowadays many companies try too hard to adapt themselves to the new rules of strategy. What these companies should be doing, instead, is to opt for a course based on an honest and unbiased assessment of their core businesses. Zook and Allen base the book on studying some 2,000 companies and conclude that there are three factors differentiating growth strategies that work from those that don't: (1) managers have to make sure to get everything possible out of the core business, (2) expand into related businesses, and (3) redefine the business before competitors do.\n\n—Review by \"Businessweek\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18580825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18580825", "title": "Providence Business News", "text": "Providence Business News\n\nProvidence Business News, nicknamed PBN, is a weekly business newspaper focusing on the economy in Rhode Island and Bristol County, Massachusetts.\n\nThe newspaper was founded in March 1986 by Robert C. Bergenheim, who at the time was also publisher of the \"Boston Business Journal\", and published its first issue that May. His son, Roger C. Bergenheim, has been the paper’s publisher for much of its history.\n\nAt the time it began, \"Providence Business News\" was one of three business publications in Rhode Island, the other two being \"Business Fortnightly of Rhode Island\" and \"Ocean State Business\", both biweekly magazines. \"Business Fortnightly\" ceased publication in June 1986, and \"Ocean State Business\" closed up shop in 1990.\n\nIn 1987, Bergenheim sold his company, P&L Publications Inc., to MCP Inc. of Minneapolis, but retained part ownership in \"Providence Business News\". Roger Bergenheim succeeded him as publisher of the Boston paper in 1988 and for a time David C. Dunbar, an advertising executive at \"Providence Business News\", took over as that newspaper’s publisher, before Bergenheim returned to the post.\n\nThe paper was redesigned in 2004 by Creative Circle Media Consulting of Providence, which later redesigned and now hosts the paper’s website.\n\n"}
{"id": "1170674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170674", "title": "Robert Morgenthau", "text": "Robert Morgenthau\n\nRobert Morris Morgenthau ( ; born July 31, 1919) is an American lawyer. From 1975 until his retirement in 2009, he was the District Attorney for New York County, the borough of Manhattan, having previously served as United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York throughout much of the 1960s on the appointment of John F. Kennedy. At retirement, Morgenthau was the longest-serving district attorney in the history of the State of New York, although William V. Grady of Dutchess County surpassed this record at the midway point of his ninth term on January 1, 2018.\n\nMorgenthau was born in 1919 in New York City into a prominent Ashkenazi Jewish family that had emigrated from Baden in 1866. He is the son of Elinor (née Fatman) and long-time Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau, Jr. His maternal great grandfather was Mayer Lehman, a co-founder of Lehman Brothers. His grandfather, Henry Morgenthau, Sr., was United States Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire during World War I. Before going into diplomatic service, Henry Morgenthau, Sr., had made a fortune in real estate, and then became a strong financial backer of President Woodrow Wilson. His paternal grandmother was born in Montgomery, Alabama. From his earliest days, the Morgenthau family was well-connected politically. The family home was near Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Springwood Estate at Hyde Park, New York, and he grew up knowing Roosevelt.\n\nAfter graduating from the New Lincoln School, Deerfield Academy, and Amherst College, he enlisted in the United States Navy, serving for four and a half years during World War II. He attained the final rank of lieutenant commander, and served as the executive officer of both the USS \"Lansdale\" and the USS \"Harry F. Bauer\". Naval records indicate heroic action during the Battle of Iwo Jima - the Bauer was attacked by thirteen suicide bombers, and survived a torpedo and dive bomber attack (both failed to detonate). He saw action in both the Mediterranean and Pacific theaters, mostly aboard destroyers. Morgenthau graduated from Yale Law School in 1948, and joined the New York law firm of Patterson, Belknap & Webb, becoming a partner in 1954.\n\nIn 1961, after 12 years of practicing corporate law, Morgenthau accepted an appointment from President John F. Kennedy as United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. In 1962, he was the Democratic nominee for Governor of New York, and resigned his federal office. After his defeat by the incumbent Governor Nelson Rockefeller, Morgenthau was reappointed U.S. Attorney and served for the remainder of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. As a United States Attorney, Morgenthau established a special unit to investigate securities fraud and prosecuted highly publicized bribery cases against city officials and IRS attorneys and accountants.\n\nIn January 1969, following the election of President Richard M. Nixon, Morgenthau remained in office, and for months resisted increasingly public pressures from the Nixon Administration to resign. He retained support from New York's liberal Republican U.S. Senators Jacob K. Javits and Charles Goodell. Morgenthau and his supporters claimed that replacing him would disrupt his work on vital cases, and that Nixon might be seeking to prevent Morgenthau from pursuing investigations that would prove embarrassing to the President or his friends. Nonetheless, Morgenthau's position became increasingly untenable. While well-regarded, he was after all a Democrat thought to harbor political aspirations; thus, Morgenthau's insistence on remaining in office seemed increasingly unreasonable to even some who initially had thought the Nixon administration should not show him the door so quickly. He was eventually forced out of office at the end of 1969, and succeeded as U.S. Attorney by Republican Whitney North Seymour, Jr.\n\nAfterwards, Morgenthau served briefly in the reformist administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay as a deputy mayor, before resigning to seek the Democratic nomination for governor in 1970. Morgenthau was less successful in raising funds and developing support than were two other candidates, Arthur Goldberg and Howard Samuels, and within weeks, he withdrew from the race. Goldberg won the nomination, and was subsequently defeated by Rockefeller.\n\nMorgenthau returned to private life until 1974, when he was elected to the office of District Attorney of New York County. This was a special election caused by the death of Frank Hogan, who had served as DA for more than 30 years. Morgenthau defeated Hogan's interim successor, Richard Kuh. He was elected to a full term in 1977, and was re-elected seven times. He was not opposed in a general election from 1985 to 2005.\n\nMorgenthau was subjected to criticism in the press for his conduct in the wake of a major police corruption scandal. Eight men who were falsely arrested by transit police officers in the scandal that shook the department were awarded more than $1 million in damages by a federal judge. One plaintiff, Ronald Yeadon, was a police officer. He was arrested twice while off duty and accused of sexually abusing a woman.\n\nMorgenthau retained a national profile while serving in what was technically a local office, in part because of his dogged pursuit of white-collar crime. According to Gary Naftalis, a prominent Manhattan defense attorney who had been an assistant to Morgenthau in the 1960s, Morgenthau believed that prosecuting \"crime in the suites\" was every bit as important as prosecuting \"crime in the streets\".\n\nMorgenthau announced in 2005, aged 85, that he would run for a ninth full term as district attorney. For the first time in decades, he encountered a vigorous primary opponent - former state court judge Leslie Crocker Snyder.\nSnyder won the endorsement of the \"New York Times\", which, like virtually all of the city's establishment, had long been supportive of Morgenthau.\nMorgenthau won the Democratic primary with 59% of the vote, to Snyder's 41%. In the general election, he was once again the candidate for all political parties in the election, having been nominated by the Democrats, Republicans, and the Working Families Party. Morgenthau won re-election with more than 99% of the vote.\n\nOn February 27, 2009, Morgenthau announced that he would not seek re-election in 2009, saying: \"I never expected to be here this long ... [R]ecently, I figured that I'd served 25 years beyond the normal retirement age.\" He was replaced by Cyrus Vance, Jr., a prosecutor under Morgenthau and the son of former President Jimmy Carter's secretary of state Cyrus Vance. Morgenthau officially endorsed Vance on June 25. Vance went on to win the primary election on September 15, 2009 and the subsequent general election on November 3. On January 20, 2010, Morgenthau joined the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.\n\n\n\nThe character of District Attorney Adam Schiff (played by actor Steven Hill), the New York district attorney in the long-running TV series \"Law & Order\", was loosely based on Morgenthau. Morgenthau reportedly was a fan of the character.\n\nMorgenthau's other principal civic activities were the Police Athletic League of New York City, which he served since 1962, first as president and then chairman, and the Museum of Jewish Heritage, of which he was chairman.\n\nIn 2005, Morgenthau received The Hundred Year Association of New York's Gold Medal \"in recognition of outstanding contributions to the City of New York\". Morgenthau also received the Association Medal of the New York City Bar Association for exceptional contributions to the honor and standing of the bar in the city of New York.\n\nHis first wife was Martha Pattridge, a Christian, whom he met in college; they had five children: Joan Morgenthau, Anne Pattridge Morgenthau Grand, Robert Pattridge Morgenthau, Elinor Gates Morgenthau, and Barbara Elizabeth Morgenthau Lee. Although Pattridge was a Christian, they raised their children in the Jewish faith. Martha died in 1972. Morgenthau was devastated by her death, and for a while after her death, he refused to talk about her in order to avoid bringing back memories of her passing.\n\nIn 1977, he married Pulitzer Prize-winning author Lucinda Franks, also a Christian. They have two children: Joshua Franks Morgenthau (born 1984), and Amy Elinor Morgenthau (born 1990). They live in New York City. His son Joshua runs the family farm, Fishkill Farms, founded by Henry Morgenthau, Jr.\n"}
{"id": "56457429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56457429", "title": "Robert and Anne Dickey House", "text": "Robert and Anne Dickey House\n\nThe Robert and Anne Dickey House, also referred to as the Robert Dickey House or by its address 67 Greenwich Street, is a Federal-style building in the Financial District of Manhattan in New York City. The site is bounded by Edgar Street to the south, Greenwich Street to the west, and Trinity Place to the east. It is named after Robert Dickey, a 19th-century New York merchant, and his wife Anne, who both resided in the house. Erected circa 1810, it is one of the few remaining Federal-style buildings in the city, and was designated a New York City Landmark in 2005. Currently in disrepair, the building is slated for renovation and conversion into a school as part of the construction of the adjacent 77 Greenwich Street.\n\nThe Dickey House is located at the south end of a block bounded by Edgar Street to the south, Greenwich Street to the west, and Trinity Place to the east, with Rector Street at the north end of the block. Adjacent to the north of the building was a former Syms Corporation store, demolished in 2017. This is the site of the future 77 Greenwich Street tower. Located to the south across Edgar Street is Elizabeth H. Berger Plaza. Also immediately to the south are the approaches to the Brooklyn–Battery Tunnel.\n\nThe building was designed by an unknown architect in Federal architecture style. The design has been erroneously attributed to Pierre Charles L'Enfant. As originally constructed the house was 3 stories tall, with the top story occupied by a peaked roof. An 1872 alteration by architect Detlef Lienau replaced the peaked roof with a fourth story capped by a flat roof with a metal cornice. The front face of the building on Greenwich Street is flat and four-windows wide. The bottom floor is utilized for retail space.\n\nThe rear face of the building on Trinity Street is five bays wide. It features an \"elliptical\" or \"bow-shaped\" facade, which occupies the northernmost three windows and extends outward towards the street. This was an original design feature, and the 1872 remodeling maintained this element for the fourth floor. The elliptical design has been compared to that of buildings in Boston. The ellipse originally faced a garden on the property.\n\nThe south facade on Edgar Street contains a chimney and no windows. It was originally adjacent to another building, until that building was demolished and Edgar Street was relocated north to front the building during the construction of the Battery Tunnel in the 1940s. Windows may have existed on this face in the past. The south face was later used as a billboard. The outer facade of the house consists of red brick, but the front (Greenwich) and rear (Trinity) faces have been painted gray. A one-story \"commercial addition\" was constructed in 1922 on the Trinity Place side of the building. This addition was most recently used as a tavern.\n\nAs of 2011, the Dickey House is one of only seven surviving pre-1810 houses located south of Chambers Street. The building, however, has been in disrepair since the turn of the 21st century. Currently, the house is hollowed out, with its roof and chimney removed to facilitate construction of 77 Greenwich (see below). Only three outer faces (Greenwich, Edgar, Trinity) currently make up the building.\n\nNumerous historical landmarks are located in the vicinity of the house. To the west and north at Greenwich and Rector Streets is 88 Greenwich Street. One block north of the site on Trinity Place are the Trinity Church and the American Stock Exchange Building. To the immediate southwest across the Battery Tunnel approaches is 21 West Street.\n\nAs part of the construction of 77 Greenwich Street, the Dickey House will be renovated and converted for use as a public elementary school building. The school will occupy both the house and portions of the lower floors of the tower. The exterior will be restored to its 19th-century condition. The 1922-built retail addition, considered non-historical, will be removed to create a new entrance to the building. Part of the new tower will cantilever over the house. The project was designed by FXFOWLE. The house will be renovated by the New York City School Construction Authority.\n\nThe Dickey House is directly served by several New York City Subway stops. The Rector Street station of the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line () is located under Greenwich Street, and a station of the same name is located on the BMT Broadway Line () under Trinity Place. The Wall Street and Bowling Green stations of the IRT Lexington Avenue Line () are located under Broadway east of the site. The local bus serves the site on Trinity Place (northbound) and Broadway (southbound). Numerous express bus routes to/from outer boroughs also operate in the area. The Staten Island Ferry Whitehall Terminal is located south of the site, connected by the subway or bus.\n\nRobert Dickey and Anne Dickey (née Brown) were both born in what is now Northern Ireland, and later emigrated to the United States. Robert Dickey arrived in the U.S. in 1798. The two married in Baltimore, Maryland in 1807. Robert Dickey was a spice merchant, whose fortunes put him among the wealthiest men in New York City at the time.\n\nThe lower ends of Greenwich Street and Trinity Place were created circa 1790, when a \"bluff\" created by the Hudson River tides was leveled and filled in order to be developed. In 1809, Robert Dickey purchased three lots at the south end of Greenwich Street. Two of the lots were originally owned by Comfort Sands and given to his daughters in 1796. One of his daughters was the wife of New York banker and broker Nathaniel Prime. Dickey proceeded to construct two houses on the site, addressed 69 and 71 Greenwich Street (later 65 and 67). Stables and a storehouse fronting Trinity Place (then called Lumber Street) were also built on adjacent lots. At the time Greenwich Street was known as \"Millionaire's Row\" and later called the \"Original Park Avenue\", and the two houses were among numerous other Federal-style rowhouses on the street. Dickey acquired the adjacent 73 Greenwich Street (future 69 Greenwich) in 1816, while selling 69 Greenwich. He operated his business ventures from the rear of the property on Lumber Street. In 1821, Dickey sold the two remaining houses. In 1822, the New York City Common Council established the modern building addresses on Greenwich Street; 71 Greenwich Street was renamed 67 Greenwich Street.\nThe house was transferred to Peter Schermerhorn (brother of Abraham Schermerhorn) in 1823, and the Schermerhorn family owned the building through the 19th century. During this time, the house was rented out to prominent New Yorkers. These included William Bayard Jr., Nicholas Low, and Ezra Ludlow (father of William H. Ludlow). It also served as the French Consulate building from 1830 to 1831. By the 1840s, it became a boarding house.\n\nIn the late 1860s, construction began on the Ninth Avenue Elevated railroad along Greenwich Street in front of the house. The elevated line opened in 1868. Shortly afterwards, the Sixth Avenue Line was erected along Trinity Place (then called New Church Street), with the two lines merging at Morris Street. This meant that both the front and rear faces of the Dickey House were obstructed by elevated tracks. In April 1871, the house was among several in Lower Manhattan raided by police under the suspicion of prostitution. In 1872, Detlef Lienau was contracted to remodel the house, removing the hipped roof and adding the building's fourth floor. By this time, the building was used as a tenement, with the original upper class residents of the neighborhood having relocated uptown and immigrants taking their place. An 1890 police census reported 57 tenants of Irish descent occupying the house.\n\nThe house was sold in 1919 to Rose A. McGuigan. One year later, McGuigan (also spelled \"McGuigman\") filed plans to convert the house and the adjacent 65 Greenwich Street property into a six-story office building. Around this time, the surrounding neighborhood west of Greenwich Street developed into an Arab immigrant community known as Little Syria. In 1922, the one-story shop extension was constructed on Trinity Place.\nThe Sixth and Ninth Avenue elevated lines were closed in 1938 and 1940 respectively, and dismantled in the 1940s. During the construction of the Brooklyn–Battery Tunnel in that decade, numerous buildings in the neighborhood were demolished. This included many on Greenwich Street, and most of Little Syria. The Dickey House, however, remained, with Edgar Street moved north to the south face of the house. Because of this, the house would later be described as a \"Robert Moses survivor\".\n\nIn 1960, the Dickey House was purchased by brothers-in-law Irving Schachter and Eli Goldhagen. At this time, the building was used by a paper company. The house was first nominated for possible landmark status in 1967. On February 11, 1991, the New York State Historic Preservation Office identified the building as a potential state or national landmark. By the turn of the 21st century, the house was in a state of disrepair. Following the September 11 attacks, the building was vacated. On June 28, 2005, the house was designated as a city landmark by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. The designation was opposed by Martha Schachter Schessel and Harry Schessel, who were the owners of the house and the descendants of Irving Schachter. They wanted the building to be demolished. The family claimed restoration costs would run to $6 million.\n\nIn 2008, it was revealed that the Syms Corporation, who owned and operated a store in the adjacent building (42 Trinity Place), planned to develop a multi-story tower on the shop site. To do this, they would need to purchase air rights from adjacent buildings including the Dickey House. In May 2008, Syms purchased the Dickey House. In November 2011, Syms filed for bankruptcy and closed all of its locations in January 2012.\n\nBeginning in late 2014, Syms (now reorganized as Trinity Place Holdings) planned to construct a residential and retail tower on the former store. By 2016, the project was named 77 Greenwich Street. The plan would incorporate the Dickey House into the development, renovating the house for use as an elementary school. Demolition of the Syms building was complete in October 2017. At this time, the chimney and north face of 67 Greenwich were removed, and metal support beams were installed to maintain the house's structural integrity.\n"}
{"id": "2344028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2344028", "title": "Street Signs (TV program)", "text": "Street Signs (TV program)\n\nStreet Signs is a television business program that originally aired on CNBC, and currently airs on CNBC Asia and CNBC Europe. Before the Asian version debuted on March 31, 2014 (see \"CNBC Asia\" further down this page for more information), it was broadcast on CNBC at 2:00pm ET. The CNBC United States version's final episode aired on February 6, 2015, due to \"Power Lunch\" returning to a two-hour format. The European version of \"Street Signs\", which is aired in a one-hour format on CNBC Europe, debuted January 4, 2016 (see \"CNBC Europe\" further down this page for more information).\n\n\n\n\nThis program focuses on the day's market action. In addition, prominent analysts, investors and executives regularly appear on the program to offer their perspective.\n\n\"Street Signs\" was originally a two-hour programme that aired on CNBC from 1996 to February 1, 2002. It was cancelled effective February 4, 2002 and \"Power Lunch\" occupied its vacated slot as a result of CNBC's revamped programming line-up. On December 8, 2003, former \"Business Center\" co-anchor and original host Ron Insana revived \"Street Signs\". And in March 2006, \"Squawk on the Street\" co-anchor Erin Burnett replaced Insana as the programme's new host. Burnett left CNBC on May 6, 2011. After Erin Burnett's departure Amanda Drury (late of CNBC Asia) and Brian Sullivan (late of the Fox Business Network) became this program's new anchor team and were to be the show's final anchors.\n\nOn October 13, 2014, \"Street Signs\" was launched in full 1080i high-definition as part of CNBC's network-wide switch to a full 16:9 letterbox presentation.\n\nOne notable segment of the programme, which aired at 2:40pm ET, the \"Stop Trading!\" segment, was presented by Jim Cramer (host of another CNBC program, \"Mad Money\"). In this segment, which formerly aired on \"Closing Bell\" prior to 2006-09-11, the co-anchors asked Cramer about the stocks making news, and also asked him for his take on the day's markets. After the segment, a full-screen disclaimer was shown as \"Street Signs\" go to a commercial break. Cramer's \"Stop Trading!\" segment was moved to the end of the first hour of \"Squawk on the Street\" on February 9, 2015. Jim Cramer's on-air tirade about the weakening economy, which was seen during the \"Stop Trading!\" segment of this program on 2007-08-03, garnered widespread attention and helped galvanise the Federal Reserve Board to cut interest rates.\n\nAs of January 4, 2016, the European version of \"Street Signs\" is the only CNBC Europe program that is aired on CNBC's United States channel. Coincidentally (as previously mentioned), CNBC's own version of \"Street Signs\" aired its last show 11 months earlier, on February 6, 2015.\n\nCNBC Asia's version of \"Street Signs\" debuted March 31, 2014, with Martin Soong and Oriel Morrison as co-anchors. Soong was previously a longtime co-anchor of \"Asia Squawk Box\" and Morrison was anchor of the now-cancelled \"Cash Flow\". The background music for both the Asian and European versions is the same as CNBC Asia's \"The Rundown\" and CNBC United States' \"Squawk Alley\".\n\nThis programme originally aired in a two-hour format until October 29, 2018, when it was expanded to three hours (9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. SIN/HK) due to the cancellation of \"The Rundown\".\n\nCNBC Europe's version of \"Street Signs\" debuted January 4, 2016. Airing in a one-hour format from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. CET, it replaced the first hour of \"Worldwide Exchange\", which itself had its airtime halved to one hour. However, the programme is occasionally extended to two hours on American bank holidays. The CNBC Europe version of \"Street Signs\" was originally co-anchored by Louisa Bojesen and Carolin Roth. Bojesen was previously anchor of the now-cancelled \"European Closing Bell\" and Roth, who became the solo anchor of \"Street Signs\" following Bojesen's departure from CNBC Europe on April 28, 2017, was previously co-anchor of \"Worldwide Exchange\". \"Street Signs\" is also broadcast on CNBC's United States channel from 4:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. ET.\n\n"}
{"id": "45194407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45194407", "title": "Sun Guangxin", "text": "Sun Guangxin\n\nSun Guangxin (born 1962) is a Chinese businessman.\n\nSun Guangxin was born in 1962. He received a Master of Arts from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and an EMBA from Tianjin University.\n\nIn 1989, Sun Guangxin founded Xinjiang Guanghui Industry Investment Group using 3,000 yuan from his decommissioning pay and 400,000 yuan from assorted bank loans. Today, this is a conglomerate with interests on energy, real estate and auto distribution. China Grand Auto, which is controlled by Guanghui Group, is the largest auto dealer in China.\n\nHe is married with three children and lives in Urumqi, China.\n"}
{"id": "49021807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49021807", "title": "Theodoros Veniamis", "text": "Theodoros Veniamis\n\nTheodoros Veniamis is a Greek shipowner and president of the Greek Union of Shipowners (\"Enosi Ellinon Efopliston\").\n"}
{"id": "10933090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10933090", "title": "Timeline of the 2007 pet food recalls", "text": "Timeline of the 2007 pet food recalls\n\nThis timeline of the 2007 pet food recalls documents how events related to the 2007 pet food recalls unfolded. Several contaminated Chinese vegetable proteins were used by pet food makers in North America, Europe and South Africa, leading to renal failure in animals fed the contaminated food. Both the centralization of the pet food industry and the speed and manner of the industry and government response became the subjects of critical discussion.\n\nTainted wheat gluten in bags from Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Company in China is imported to the United States by Las Vegas-based ChemNutra, Inc. from a Chinese textile company.\n\nCanada-based company Menu Foods begins to use the tainted wheat gluten at its plants in the U.S. states of Kansas and New Jersey.\n\nUnconfirmed reports indicate that Menu Foods receives word of a possible problem with some of its products as early as December 2006.\n\nMenu Foods acknowledges receiving the first complaints of sick pets on February 20.\n\nThe Chief Financial Officer of Menu Foods, Mark Wiens, sells roughly half of his Menu Foods stock on February 26 and 27. He has referred to the timing as a \"horrible coincidence.\"\n\nMenu Foods begins internal taste testing of its food. The company conducts taste testing of its products quarterly, and the February testing was not a result of the received complaints.\n\nThe company begins to investigate a possible problem when as many as 1 in 6 pets began to die after consuming products containing wheat gluten.\n\nCornell University and a New York state-based testing facility receive samples from Menu Foods for testing.\n\nOn March 16, Menu Foods issues a U.S. nationwide recall for dog and cat foods produced at two of its facilities between December 3, 2006, and March 6, 2007. The initial recall comprises sixty million units of cuts and gravy-style food in pouches sold under nearly 100 brand names, including premium brands like Iams and private-label brands sold at nationwide chains such as Wal-Mart, Kroger, and other large retailers. While the recalled products represent just 1% of pet foods available in the U.S., the recall is one of the largest in American history.\n\nMenu Foods confirms the problem was with the wheat gluten used to thicken and enrich the gravy in the canned and pouched wet food products, and that the medical problems exhibited in test subjects include renal failure. At the time it is unknown why the renal failure occurs.\n\nFollowing the first word of a recall, reports of pet sicknesses and deaths began to come in from throughout the United States and Canada. Although Menu Foods products are also sold in Mexico, little information is published regarding the situation in that country.\n\nSome independent sources, such as petconnection.com, begin collecting several hundred reports of animal deaths per day.\n\nThe New York State Food Laboratory reported that aminopterin was found in samples sent to them by Cornell. Aminopterin is widely described in news reports as a \"rat poison\" though that assertion may be based upon a hypothetical use listed in the 1951 patent application and not upon the actual use of the chemical.\n\nMenu Foods expands the recall to include dozens of more cat and dog food products, including all varieties of 'cuts and gravy' type wet pet food in cans and pouches, not just specific UPCs, as before, in order to ensure pet stores removed any chance of contaminated batches reaching consumers.\n\nThe American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals first reports that symptoms described in affected animals are not \"fully consistent with the ingestion of rat poison containing aminopterin.\"\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announces a possible source of the sicknesses, indicated by the presence of melamine, an industrial chemical, in wheat gluten imported from China. The FDA prohibits the import of wheat gluten from a specific Chinese company, Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Company (徐州安营生物技术开发有限公司), and says that the contamination may be in dry pet foods as well.\n\nLate that Friday, Hill's Pet Nutrition, Inc., Del Monte, and Nestlé Purina recall several brands of wet and dry pet foods.\n\nConcerns are first voiced in the news media that the imported gluten may have been used in products intended for human consumption, however the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) assures consumers that all of the suspect gluten was used exclusively in pet foods and there is \"no evidence to suggest that any of the imported Wheat Gluten from the suspect firm has entered the human food supply.\"\n\nThe contaminated wheat gluten is determined to have come directly from China or through the Netherlands to the U.S. through ChemNutra, a Las Vegas-based supply company for pet food manufacturers. ChemNutra orders a recall of all of the suspected wheat gluten batches.\n\nThe Chinese government refuses FDA requests to inspect facilities suspected of producing contaminated products.\n\nThe Chinese government categorically denies any connection to the North American food poisonings to the \"New York Times\", claiming they had no record of exporting any agricultural products that could have tainted the recalled pet foods, including the wheat gluten that has been the focus of the investigation. The general manager of the Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Company also denied that they had exported any wheat gluten to North America.\n\nThe Chinese government tells the Associated Press that they will investigate the source of the wheat gluten. The Xinhua News Agency states that \"sampling and examination\" of wheat gluten was underway across China, centering on the presence of melamine.\n\nNews breaks that scientists at a University of California, Davis animal health laboratory confirmed that a \"popular brand of pet food\" submitted for testing by area veterinarians was contaminated with melamine, even though it is not on the list of recalled cat and dog foods.\n\nOn April 10, Menu Foods announces that the recall will be expanded to include foods manufactured at Menu Foods' plant in Streetsville, Ontario. Menu Foods officials had believed that the plant did not have the same problems as their New Jersey and Kansas plants, but tests revealed that contaminated wheat gluten had made it into Canada.\n\nBy April 10 Menu Foods had only confirmed 16 deaths outside of its test subjects, comprising 15 cats and one dog. This number is frequently cited in news reports as there is no equivalent of the Centers for Disease Control to verify the cause of other reported pet deaths.\n\nOne self-reported on-line data base reaches more than 3600 deaths allegedly connected to the recall. The FDA acknowledges receiving more than 15,000 complaints from consumers related to the recall, but will not comment on the possible amount of pet sicknesses or deaths.\n\nThe same day, a distributor of agricultural and industrial products, Wilbur-Ellis Company, discovers a single pink, one-ton bag labeled \"melamine\" among 145 other white bags of imported rice protein concentrate from Binzhou Futian Biology Technology in China. Wilbur-Ellis immediately quarantines the shipment.\n\nBy April 11 there are more than 130 brands of dog and cat foods from five companies recalled. Most of the foods are wet, though there are some dry foods and dog biscuits as part of the recall as a precautionary measure even though no cases of poisoning from dry foods have yet been reported.\n\nHearings are held by United States Senator Richard Durbin in front of the United States Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies. FDA officials admit that contaminated food was likely still on store shelves throughout the country, and urge consumers to re-check the food they have in their possession.\n\nAlso on the 12th, Menu Foods admits that a \"clerical error\" allowed more tainted product to be released to the public after the recall had begun.\n\nRoyal Canin dog food was recalled in South Africa on April 12 after 19 dogs were confirmed to be suffering \"acute renal failure\" related to eating recalled dog food. That week Hill's Pet Nutrition also recalled a batch of food for diabetic cats in South Africa.\n\nWilbur-Ellis notifies the FDA that it had found a bag labelled melamine mixed in with a shipment of rice protein concentrate.\n\nOn April 17 a product not containing wheat-gluten is recalled due to the presence of melamine in pet food. Natural Balance Pet Foods has found melamine in two products containing rice protein from a then-unnamed supplier (Wilbur-Ellis). Eleven dogs and \"three or four\" cats are reported as known to be suffering kidney problems as a result of eating the food.\n\nThe contaminated rice protein is publicly identified as having come from Wilbur-Ellis, who had by then distributed the contaminated protein to five different pet food manufacturers in Utah, New York, Kansas and Missouri. Since pet food recalls are voluntary, the FDA refuses to name the companies involved.\n\nOn April 19, 2007 researchers announce that they have identified three additional chemicals in the melamine-contaminated rice protein and animals that had consumed it. The chemicals include cyanuric acid, a chemical used in chlorinated pools. All three chemicals are derivatives of melamine.\n\nThe same day, Royal Canin issues recalls of eight varieties of their pet foods.\n\nAlso on April 19, U.S. federal officials said that they were investigating reports that Binzhou Futian rice protein had been used in hog feed, but declined to specify where. The California Department of Food and Agriculture placed American Hog Farm in Ceres, California, under quarantine, after melamine was found in the urine of the hogs on the farm. California State Veterinarian Dr. Richard Breitmeyer said \"All animals appear healthy,\" and that \"It is unknown if the chemical will be detected in meat.\" American Hog Farm primarily supplies whole hogs to individuals. Anyone who has purchased a pig from American Hog Farm since April 3 is advised not to eat it.\n\nThe South African pet food industry announced that they would no longer import gluten products from China after the presence of melamine was confirmed in Chinese corn gluten. At least 30 dogs have died of renal failure related to contaminated food in South Africa.\n\nAlso on the 20th, pet food company SmartPak issued a late night recall of two dog food products related to contaminated rice protein. SmartPak was one of the two remaining companies supplied by Wilbur-Ellis, leaving only one company refusing to recall its contaminated products.\n\nChina finally gave permission to FDA investigators to enter the country.\n\nThe FDA announces that melamine has been found in the urine of hogs in North Carolina, California and South Carolina, that farms in Utah, New York and possibly Ohio had received contaminated feed. They had not yet determined if, beyond a small amount in California, any contaminated meat had reached the human food supply. The FDA also announces that it was now testing six common food ingredients – wheat gluten, corn gluten, cornmeal, soy protein, rice bran and rice protein concentrate – as a precaution.\n\nAt least one plaintiff in a lawsuit against Menu Foods first receives a call from someone on behalf of Menu Foods who would not initially identify herself. She would not provide a last name, a return telephone number or information on how she got the plaintiff's number. Eventually the caller acknowledged she was from Menu Food's insurance adjustor, Crawford & Company. This call is followed a few days later by a second caller who, when told it was illegal for the plaintiffs to be contacted directly by representatives of the defendant, allegedly responded \"So you don't want a settlement package?\"\n\nFDA Officials traced the melamine responsible for pet deaths to two Chinese plants, which have been supplying American distributors since last summer.\nOn that same day, Chinese authorities shut down Binzhou Futian Biology Technology Co. Ltd., and detained the manager, Tian Feng. Feng denies responsibility, saying that he \"didn't do anything wrong,\" and denying that he even knows what melamine is.\n\nOn April 26, the FDA announced that over 6,000 hogs had been quarantined on farms in California, New York, South Carolina, North Carolina, Utah, Kansas, Oklahoma and Ohio. Additionally, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced that the meat of 345 hogs that had eaten contaminated feed had entered the U.S. food supply, possibly via slaughterhouses in Kansas and Utah.\n\nAlso on Monday, April 26, seven recalls were either expanded or issued for the first time.\n\nThe final Wilbur-Ellis-related recall was issued by Chenango Valley Pet Foods, nine days after Wilbur-Ellis had announced its rice protein was contaminated with melamine.\n\nThat day, Diamond Pet Foods also issued an expanded recall and Costco's Kirkland Signature brand issued a new recall.\n\nBlue Buffalo also expands its recall, Harmony Farms announces a recall, and American Nutrition, Inc. (ANI) issues a voluntary recall of 28 different pet food products that they manufacture which are sold under other labels. ANI states that pet foods that they manufacture under their own label are not affected by the current recall.\n\nFinally, China's Foreign Ministry says that it has banned the use of melamine in food products, admitting that products containing melamine had cleared customs while continuing to dispute the role of melamine in causing pet deaths. China also vowed to cooperate with U.S. investigators to find the \"real cause\" of pet deaths.\n\nNatural Balance Inc. issues another voluntary recall, recalling three of their varieties of dog food and one variety of cat food, and Canine Caviar issued a voluntary recall of 3 varieties of pet food.\n\nThe April 26 and April 27 recalls by Blue Buffalo, Canine Caviar, Diamond, Harmony Farms, and Natural Balance are claimed by all five brands to be due to unauthorized inclusion of rice protein by American Nutrition, Inc. (ANI), their manufacturer. This adds a new potential source of contamination and distrust, namely non-compliant contract manufacturers, beyond the original problematic Chinese ingredient suppliers. Diamond and Natural Balance refer to this as a \"manufacturing deviation\" by ANI. Blue Buffalo and Harmony Farms characterize this as \"product tampering\" by ANI. Blue Buffalo has announced plans to change manufacturers while Canine Caviar and Natural Balance both announced that they will avoid future problems due to incorrect manufacturing by demanding more paperwork from their manufacturers. ANI has issued a press release denying any deliberate or intentionally wrongful conduct.\n\nThe FDA announces that of 750 samples of wheat gluten and products containing wheat gluten that 330 had tested positive for melamine contamination. Out of 85 samples of rice protein concentrate and products made with it, 27 were contaminated.\n\nThe Chicago Tribune reports that, according to California state officials, approximately 45 state residents consumed pork from hogs that had been fed melamine-contaminated feed.\n\nThe FDA and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) issue a joint press release stating that contaminated feed was used at approximately 38 chicken farms in Indiana in early February and that and all fed broiler chickens have been processed. They state that the likelihood of human illness is very low.\n\nThe FDA and USDA acknowledge that millions of chickens fed contaminated feed had been eaten.\n\nMenu Foods recalls additional pet food items made at the same plant as prior recalled items due to suspected cross-contamination.\n\nChinese authorities detained Mao Lijun, general manager of the Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development, on unspecified charges.\n\nThe same day, SmartPak Canine executed a voluntary nationwide recall on two products that tested positive for melamine.\n\nDr. David Acheson, assistant FDA commissioner for food protection, states that the FDA has begun to investigate domestic food manufacturers who use protein products to ensure that no contaminated product is being used in foods intended for human use, noting that it has no evidence of this occurring, \"but it's prudent to look.\"\n\nThe USDA releases some swine and poultry from farms suspected of having received contaminated feed for processing based on no melamine being detected in feed samples using approved tests. No mention is made whether USDA conducted tests for melamine in animal tissue of animals released for processing A USDA spokesman was reported as saying 20 million chickens were included in this category of animals released for processing.\n\nUnited States food safety officials issue joint risk assessment of very low risk to humans from eating pork or poultry from animals known to have consumed feed tainted with contaminated pet food scraps based on criteria predating current research on toxicity of melamine and cyanuric acid in combination.\"\n\nAdulteration of animal feed with cyanuric acid in China is reported.\n\nIt is also announced that melamine discovered in fish feed at hatcheriers that raise fish for human consumption.\nOfficials from the USDA and FDA testify in front of the United States House of Representatives Committee on Agriculture.\n\nRoyal Canin issues an additional voluntary recall, recalling seventeen of their varieties in addition to those recalled on April 18 (at which time they stated that 'Effective immediately, Royal Canin USA does not source any of its vegetable proteins-including rice gluten-from China')\n\nRoyal Canin announces an expansion of its existing recalls.\n\n56,000 swine are cleared for processing without being tested for cyanuric acid after a revised risk assessment by the USDA and FDA still concluded that there is \"very low\" risk to humans from eating the contaminated meat.\n\nChenango Valley Pet Foods expands its recall to foods that do not explicitly contain wheat gluten or rice protein, citing cross-contamination with those ingredients in the manufacturating process. For the first time, a non-cat or dog pet food is recalled since the list includes ferret food.\n\nResearchers at the USDA Bee Research Laboratory and the FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine begin investigating bee feed for the presence of melamine-related compounds as a possible cause of Colony Collapse Disorder – the unprecedented die-off of a quarter of the honeybees in the United States during 2006 that endangers the human food supply. Commercial bee feeds are protein-based, containing soy and yeast ingredients; however, no link has been found so far.\n\nIn U.S. District Court, Judge Noel Hillman cautions Menu Foods and their insurance adjustor, Crawford & Co., to avoid contacting pet owners who had joined any of the lawsuits against Menu Foods because, legally, Menu can only contact plaintiffs through their lawyers.\n\nMenu Foods and Chenango Valley Pet Foods both announce that they are phasing out Chinese ingredients until they can be assured that they are safe. Other pet food manufacturers, including Nestlé Purina Petcare have started screening for melamine.\n\nAfter four dogs suffering kidney problems are brought to the same clinic in Visalia, California, they are found to have all eaten Nutra Nuggets brand food – a food not on the recall list. Melamine contamination is confirmed after a sample was sent to a laboratory at University of California at Davis.\n\nUnited States Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) officials announce that melamine was detected in catfish imported to Arkansas from Asia for human food. The fish were being investigated for antibiotics, which were not found. The DHHS stated that the levels detected did not pose a human health hazard.\n\nDiamond Pet Foods recalls bags of Nutra Nuggets Lamb Meal and Rice formula dry dog food after they are found to be contaminated with melamine that Diamond attributes to cross contamination in the manufacturing process.\n\nU.S. District Court Judge Noel Hillman orders Menu Foods to have no contact with plaintiffs unless their attorneys are involved in the discussion after lawyers from six firms representing pet owners claim that the company was directly contacting their clients. Hillman states that \"It seems to me that Menu Food is out to do whatever Menu Foods wants to do in a way that could adversely impact the rights\" of the plaintiffs.\n\nCorn gluten from China tests positive for melamine and cyanuric acid and is intercepted by Canadian authorities.\n\nZheng Xiaoyu, the head of the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration from its founding in 1998 until 2005 receives the death sentence for corruption. Zheng was convicted of taking bribes worth $844,000 – significantly less than the bribes taken by officials given lesser penalties in China. Dozens of Chinese died due to the approval of untested medicines and falsely labeled food during Zheng's tenure.\n\nChina also announces the creation of its first recall system for unsafe food products.\n\nThe FDA issues a press release stating that two US-based animal feed manufacturers had been adulterating livestock feed and fish/shrimp feed with melamine. Tembec BTLSR Inc. of Toledo, Ohio, manufactures feed ingredients AquaBond and Aqua-Tec II, adding melamine to improve the binding properties of pelleted food.\n\nZeigler Bros., Inc. issues a voluntary recall of its shrimp feeds products that contain AquaBond.\n\nSergeant’s Pet Care Products voluntarily recalled some production lots of Atlantis Goldfish Flake Food and Atlantis Tropical Fish Flake Food due to melamine being found in these specific products (approximately 20-80 parts per million). The fish food that is being recalled is for pet/ornamental fish and not used to feed fish intended for human consumption.\n\nThe FDA launches and investigation after acetaminophen, best known under the brand-name Tylenol, is identified by ExperTox Inc., a laboratory in Texas, as a fifth contaminant present in many varieties of pet food.\nA single 500 mg tablet of acetaminophen is sufficient to kill an adult cat. The FDA does not identify which brands might be affected, however on June 13 website ConsumerAffairs.com reports that two of the samples were Pet Pride \"Turkey and Giblets Dinner\" and \"Mixed Grill\", both manufactured by Menu Foods.\n\nThe FDA announces that melamine-contaminated shrimp feed and feed ingredients made in the United States may have been exported by Zeigler Bros. Inc. to thirteen countries - Panama, Venezuela, Belize, Suriname, Costa Rica, Honduras, Ecuador, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Gambia, Lebanon and Canada. It is unclear whether the exported products actually reached their destinations or entered markets there.\n\nChina announces that three shipments of raisins and health supplements from the United States were blocked because they \"failed to meet the sanitary standards of China\" after levels of bacteria and sulphur dioxide were found to be too high. The shipments were either destroyed or sent back. In April 2007 alone, the United States had rejected 257 food shipments from China.\n\nMenu Foods announces that a \"significant customer\" – later identified as Procter & Gamble – has decided to end its contract for cuts-and-gravy products. The contract accounted for 11% of Menu Food's 2006 sales. Procter & Gamble continues to purchase solid canned food from Menu.\n\nThe FDA announces that acetaminophen has not been found in five samples of cat food and two samples of dog food.\nFDA spokesman Mike Herndon says that, \"At this point, FDA sees no compelling need to analyze any more samples for acetaminophen.\" A third, independent lab also did not detect acetaminophen. It is not clear whether the FDA checked samples of the same brands of food in which acetaminophen was allegedly found because the initial laboratory could not initiate contact with the FDA or publicly identify the manufacturer because of client confidentiality. Only if the FDA contacted the lab could information be shared, and the FDA did not do this until June 12.\n\nDon Earl, a pet owner who links the death of his cat in January to consumption of Pet Pride cat food, reveals that he had paid ExperTox to analyze samples of the pet food. He alleges that the tests showed acetaminophen and cyanuric acid, but no melamine. The contaminated items were not subject to any recall.\n\nThe Health & Consumer Protection Directorate-General of the European Commission (EC) acknowledged that corn gluten contaminated with melamine and rice protein concentrate contaminated with melamine and analogues, both originating from China, had been intercepted in Poland and Greece, respectively.\n\nChinese state media announces that 180 food factories have been closed for improperly using industrial chemicals and recycled or expired food. The director of the Chinese General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine's quality control and inspection department states that \"These are not isolated cases.\" Most of the offending manufacturers were unlicensed food plants with fewer than 10 employees. It is estimated that three-fourths of China's one million food processing plants are small and privately owned. In addition, the Chinese State Administration for Industry and Commerce states that it closed 152,000 unlicensed food manufacturers and retailers in 2006 for making fraudulent or low-quality products.\n\nOn the same day, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals announces that \"fears of widespread contamination of pet food with acetaminophen are unfounded,\" confirming the results of FDA investigators. The ASPCA collaborated with toxicologists with the California Animal Health and Food Safety System at the University of California, Davis. They found no acetaminophen contamination in three cans of the same food that tested positive for acetaminophen at a Texas laboratory. Additionally, since the cat that had eaten the food suffered kidney, but not liver, failure, acetaminophen poisoning seems unlikely.\n\nOfficial feed controllers of the Swiss research institute Agroscope Liebefeld in Posieux (ALP) stated that corn gluten contaminated with melamine, cyanuric acid and urea had been imported into Switzerland from China.\n\nOwners and executives of Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Company, Suzhou Textiles, Silk, Light Industrial Products, Arts and Crafts, and ChemNutra were indicted on charges of intentionally defrauding and misleading American manufacturers about poisonous ingredients used in pet food.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3207593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3207593", "title": "United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods", "text": "United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods\n\nThe United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG; the Vienna Convention) is a treaty that is a uniform international sales law. It has been ratified by 89 states that account for a significant proportion of world trade, making it one of the most successful international uniform laws. Palestine is the most recent state to ratify the Convention, having acceded to it on 29 December 2017.\n\nThe CISG was developed by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL), and was signed in Vienna in 1980. The CISG is sometimes referred to as the Vienna Convention (but is not to be confused with other treaties signed in Vienna). It came into force as a multilateral treaty on 1 January 1988, after being ratified by 11 countries.\n\nThe CISG allows exporters to avoid choice of law issues, as the CISG offers \"accepted substantive rules on which contracting parties, courts, and arbitrators may rely\". Unless excluded by the express terms of a contract, the CISG is deemed to be incorporated into (and supplant) any otherwise applicable domestic law(s) with respect to a transaction in goods between parties from different Contracting States.\n\nThe CISG has been regarded as a success for the UNCITRAL, as the Convention has been accepted by states from \"every geographical region, every stage of economic development and every major legal, social and economic system\". Countries that have ratified the CISG are referred to within the treaty as \"Contracting States\". Of the uniform law conventions, the CISG has been described as having \"the greatest influence on the law of worldwide trans-border commerce\". It has been described as a great legislative achievement, and the \"most successful international document so far\" in unified international sales law, in part due to its flexibility in allowing Contracting States the option of taking exception to certain specified articles. This flexibility was instrumental in convincing states with disparate legal traditions to subscribe to an otherwise uniform code. While certain State parties to the CISG have lodged declarations, the vast majority68 of the current 89 Contracting Stateshave chosen to accede to the Convention without any declaration.\n\nThe CISG is the basis of the annual Willem C. Vis International Commercial Arbitration Moot held in Vienna in the week before Easter (and now also in Hong Kong). Teams from law schools around the world take part. The Moot is organised by Pace University, which keeps a definitive source of information on the CISG.\n\nAs of 2018, the following 89 states have ratified, acceded to, approved, accepted, or succeeded to the Convention: \nThe Convention has been signed, but not ratified, by Ghana and Venezuela.\n\nThe CISG allows contracting States to lodge reservations (called \"declarations\" in the CISG own language). About one fourth of the CISG contracting States have done so.\n\nDeclarations may refer to:\n\n\nSome existing declarations have been reviewed and withdrawn by States. Nordic countries (\"i.e.\", members of the Nordic Council) (except Iceland) had originally opted out of the application of Part II under article 92 CISG. However, they recently withdrew their Article 92 CISG reservations and became a party to Part II CISG, except for trade among themselves, to which the CISG is not applied as a whole due to a declaration lodged under article 94. Likewise, China, Latvia, Lithuania and Hungary withdrew their written form declaration, and the Czech Republic withdrew its declaration preventing the application of article 1(1)(b).\n\nSome countries have expanded rather than restricted CISG application by removing one of the cumulative conditions for application within the CISG. For example, Israeli law stipulates that the CISG will apply equally to a party whose place of business is in a State that is not a Contracting State.\n\nHong Kong, India, South Africa, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom are the only major trading countries that have not yet ratified the CISG.\n\nThe absence of the United Kingdom, a leading jurisdiction for the choice of law in international commercial contracts, has been attributed variously to: the government not viewing its ratification as a legislative priority, a lack of interest from business in supporting ratification, opposition from a number of large and influential organisations, a lack of public service resources, and a danger that London would lose its edge in international arbitration and litigation.\n\nTaiwan currently may not become a party to treaties deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.\n\nRwanda and Guatemala have concluded the domestic procedure of consideration of the CISG and adopted laws authorising its adoption; the CISG will enter into force for it once the instrument of accession is deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. A number of other countries, including Kazakhstan, have made progress in the adoption process.\n\nThe CISG is written using \"plain language that refers to things and events for which there are words of common content\". This was a conscious intent to allow national legal systems to be transcended through the use of a common legal \"lingua franca\" and avoids the \"words associated with specific domestic legal nuances\". Further, it facilitated the translation into the UN's six official languages. As is customary in UN conventions all 6 languages are equally authentic.\n\nThe CISG is divided into four parts:\n\nThe CISG applies to contracts of the sale of goods between parties whose places of business are in different States, when the States are Contracting States (Article 1(1)(a)). Given the significant number of Contracting States, this is the usual path to the CISG's applicability.\n\nThe CISG also applies if the parties are situated in different countries (which need not be Contracting States) and the conflict of law rules lead to the application of the law of a Contracting State. For example, a contract between a Japanese trader and a Brazilian trader may contain a clause that arbitration will be in Sydney under Australian law with the consequence that the CISG would apply. A number of States have declared they will not be bound by this condition.\n\nThe CISG is intended to apply to commercial goods and products only. With some limited exceptions, the CISG does not apply to personal, family, or household goods, nor does it apply to auctions, ships, aircraft, or intangibles and services. The position of computer software is 'controversial' and will depend upon various conditions and situations.\n\nImportantly, parties to a contract may exclude or vary the application of the CISG.\nInterpretation of the CISG is to take account of the 'international character' of the Convention, the need for uniform application, and the need for good faith in international trade. Disputes over interpretation of the CISG are to be resolved by applying the 'general principles' of the CISG, or where there are no such principles but the matters are governed by the CISG (a gap \"praeter legem\") by applying the rules of private international law.\n\nA key point of controversy was whether or not a contract requires a written memorial to be binding. The CISG allows for a sale to be oral or unsigned, but in some countries, contracts are not valid unless written. In many nations, however, oral contracts are accepted, and those States had no objection to signing, so States with a strict written requirement exercised their ability to exclude those articles relating to oral contracts, enabling them to sign as well.\n\nThe CISG is not a complete qualification by its own definition. These gaps must be filled in by the applicable national law under due consideration of the conflict of law rules applicable at the place of jurisdiction.\n\nAn offer to contract must be addressed to a person, be sufficiently definite – that is, describe the goods, quantity, and price – and indicate an intention for the offeror to be bound on acceptance. The CISG does not appear to recognise common law unilateral contracts but, subject to clear indication by the offeror, treats any proposal not addressed to a specific person as only an invitation to make an offer. Further, where there is no explicit price or procedure to implicitly determine price, then the parties are assumed to have agreed upon a price based upon that 'generally charged at the time of the conclusion of the contract for such goods sold under comparable circumstances'.\n\nGenerally, an offer may be revoked provided the withdrawal reaches the offeree before or at the same time as the offer, or before the offeree has sent an acceptance. Some offers may not be revoked; for example when the offeree reasonably relied upon the offer as being irrevocable. The CISG requires a positive act to indicate acceptance; silence or inactivity are not an acceptance.\n\nThe CISG attempts to resolve the common situation where an offeree's reply to an offer accepts the original offer, but attempts to change the conditions. The CISG says that any change to the original conditions is a rejection of the offer—it is a counter-offer—unless the modified terms do not materially alter the terms of the offer. Changes to price, payment, quality, quantity, delivery, liability of the parties, and arbitration conditions may all materially alter the terms of the offer.\n\nArticles 25–88; sale of goods, obligations of the seller, obligations of the buyer, passing of risk, obligations common to both buyer and seller.\n\nThe CISG defines the duty of the seller, 'stating the obvious', as the seller must deliver the goods, hand over any documents relating to them, and transfer the property in the goods, as required by the contract. Similarly, the duty of the buyer is to take all steps 'which could reasonably be expected' to take delivery of the goods, and to pay for them.\n\nGenerally, the goods must be of the quality, quantity, and description required by the contract, be suitably packaged and fit for purpose. The seller is obliged to deliver goods that are not subject to claims from a third party for infringement of industrial or intellectual property rights in the State where the goods are to be sold. The buyer is obliged to promptly examine the goods and, subject to some qualifications, must advise the seller of any lack of conformity within 'a reasonable time' and no later than within two years of receipt.\n\nThe CISG describes when the risk passes from the seller to the buyer but it has been observed that in practice most contracts define the 'seller's delivery obligations quite precisely by adopting an established shipment term, such as FOB and CIF.\n\nRemedies of the buyer and seller depend upon the character of a breach of the contract. If the breach is fundamental, then the other party is substantially deprived of what it expected to receive under the contract. Provided that an objective test shows that the breach could not have been foreseen, then the contract may be avoided and the aggrieved party may claim damages. Where part performance of a contract has occurred, then the performing party may recover any payment made or good supplied; this contrasts with the common law where there is generally no right to recover a good supplied unless title has been retained or damages are inadequate, only a right to claim the value of the good.\n\nIf the breach is not fundamental, then the contract is not avoided and remedies may be sought including claiming damages, specific performance, and adjustment of price. Damages that may be awarded conform to the common law rules in \"Hadley v Baxendale\" but it has been argued the test of foreseeability is substantially broader and consequently more generous to the aggrieved party.\n\nThe CISG excuses a party from liability to a claim of damages where a failure to perform is attributable to an impediment beyond the party's, or a third party sub-contractor's, control that could not have been reasonably expected. Such an extraneous event might elsewhere be referred to as \"force majeure\", and frustration of the contract.\n\nWhere a seller has to refund the price paid, then the seller must also pay interest to the buyer from the date of payment. It has been said the interest rate is based on rates current in the seller's State '[s]ince the obligation to pay interest partakes of the seller's obligation to make restitution and not of the buyer's right to claim damages', though this has been debated. In a mirror of the seller's obligations, where a buyer has to return goods the buyer is accountable for any benefits received.\n\nArticles 89–101 (final provisions) include how and when the Convention comes into force, permitted reservations and declarations, and the application of the Convention to international sales where both States concerned have the same or similar law on the subject.\n\nThe Part IV Articles, along with the Preamble, are sometime characterized as being addressed 'primarily to States', not to business people attempting to use the Convention for international trade. They may, however, have a significant impact upon the CISG's practical applicability, thus requiring careful scrutiny when determining each particular case.\n\nIt has been remarked that the CISG expresses a practice-based, flexible and \"relational\" character. It places no or very few restrictions of form on formation or adjustment of contracts; in case of non-performance (or over-performance) it offers a wide array of interim measures before the aggrieved party must resort to avoiding the contract (e.g. unilateral pro-rated price reduction (Art. 50); suspension of performance (art. 71); the availability of cure as a matter of right of the defaulting party (subject to some reservations, Art. 48); choice between expectation and market-based damages, etc.); additionally, the CISG does not operate under a \"perfect tender\" rule and its criteria for conformity are functional rather than formal (art. 35). Additionally, its rules of interpretation rely heavily on custom as well as on manifest acts rather than on intent (Art. 8). The CISG does include a so-called Nachlass rule, but its scope is relatively limited. On the other hand, its good faith obligation may seem relatively limited and in any case obscure (Art. 7). All communications require \"reasonable time.\"\n\nAlthough the Convention has been accepted by a large number of States, it has been the subject of some criticism. For example, the drafting nations have been accused of being incapable of agreement on a code that \"concisely and clearly states universal principles of sales law\", and through the Convention's invitation to interpret taking regard of the Convention's \"international character\" gives judges the opportunity to develop \"diverse meaning\". Put more bluntly, the CISG has been described as \"a variety of vague standards and compromises that appear inconsistent with commercial interests\".\n\nA contrary view is that the CISG is \"written in plain business language,\" which allows judges the opportunity to make the Convention workable in a range of sales situations. It has been said \"the drafting style is lucid and the wording simple and uncluttered by complicated subordinating clauses\", and the \"general sense\" can be grasped on the first reading without the need to be a sales expert.\n\nUniform application of the CISG is problematic because of the reluctance of courts to use \"solutions adopted on the same point by courts in other countries\", resulting in inconsistent decisions. For example, in a case involving the export to Germany by a Swiss company of New Zealand mussels with a level of cadmium in excess of German standards, the German Supreme Court held that it is \"not\" the duty of the seller to ensure that goods meet German public health regulations. This contrasted with a later decision in which an Italian cheese exporter failed to meet French packaging regulations, and the French court decided it was the duty of the seller to ensure compliance with French regulations.\n\nThese two cases were held by one commentator to be an example of contradictory jurisprudence. Another commentator, however, saw the cases as not contradictory, as the German case could be distinguished on a number of points. The French court chose not to consider the German court's decision, in its published decision. (Precedent, foreign or not, is not legally binding in civil law.)\n\nCISG advocates are also concerned that the natural inclination of judges is to interpret the CISG using the methods familiar to them from their own State rather than attempting to apply the general principles of the Convention or the rules of private international law. This is despite the comment from one highly respected academic that 'it should be a rare, or non-existent, case where there are no relevant general principles to which a court might have recourse' under the CISG. This concern was supported by research of the CISG Advisory Council which said, in the context of the interpretation of Articles 38 and 39, there is a tendency for courts to interpret the articles in the light of their own State's law, and some States have 'struggled to apply [the articles] appropriately'. In one of a number of criticisms of Canadian court decisions to use local legislation to interpret the CISG, one commentator said the CISG was designed to 'replace existing domestic laws and caselaw,' and attempts to resolve gaps should not be by 'reference to relevant provisions of [local] sales law'.\n\nCritics of the multiple language versions of the CISG assert it is inevitable the versions will not be totally consistent because of translation errors and the untranslatability of 'subtle nuances' of language. This argument, though with some validity, would not seem peculiar to the CISG but common to any and all treaties that exist in multiple languages. The \"reductio ad absurdum\" would seem to be that all international treaties should exist in only a single language, something which is clearly neither practical nor desirable.\n\nOther criticisms of the Convention are that it is incomplete, there is no mechanism for updating the provisions, and no international panel to resolve interpretation issues. For example, the CISG does not govern the validity of the contract, nor does it consider electronic contracts. However, legal matters relating to the use of electronic communications in relation to contracts for international sale of goods have been eventually dealt with in a comprehensive manner in the United Nations Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts. Moreover, it is not to be forgotten that the CISG is complemented by the Convention on the Limitation Period in the International Sale of Goods with respect to the limitation of actions due to passage of time.\n\nDespite the critics, a supporter has said '[t]he fact that the costly ignorance of the early days, when many lawyers ignored the CISG entirely, has been replaced by too much enthusiasm that leads to ... oversimplification, cannot be blamed on the CISG'.\n\nGreater acceptance of the CISG will come from three directions. Firstly, it is likely that within the global legal profession, as the numbers of new lawyers educated in the CISG increases, the existing Contracting States will embrace the CISG, appropriately interpret the articles, and demonstrate a greater willingness to accept precedents from other Contracting States.\n\nSecondly, business people will increasingly pressure both lawyers and governments to make sales of goods disputes less expensive, and reduce the risk of being forced to use a legal system that may be completely alien to their own. Both of these objectives can be achieved through use of the CISG.\n\nFinally, UNCITRAL will arguably need to develop a mechanism to further develop the Convention and to resolve conflicting interpretation issues. This will make it more attractive to both business people and potential Contracting States.\n\nDepending on the country, the CISG can represent a small or significant departure from local legislation relating to the sale of goods, and in this can provide important benefits to companies from one contracting state that import goods into other states that have ratified the CISG.\n\nIn the U.S., all 50 states have, to varying degrees, adopted common legislation referred to as the Uniform Commercial Code (\"UCC\"). UCC Articles 1 (General Provisions) and 2 (Sales) are generally similar to the CISG. However, the UCC differs from the CISG in some respects, such as the following areas that tend to reflect more general aspects of the U.S. legal system:\n\nNevertheless, because the U.S. has ratified the CISG, the CISG in the U.S. has the force of federal law and supersedes UCC-based state law under the Supremacy Clause. Among the U.S. reservations to the CISG is the provision that the CISG will apply only as to contracts with parties located in other CISG Contracting States, a reservation permitted by the CISG in Article 95. Therefore, in \"international\" contracts for the sale of goods between a U.S. entity and an entity of a Contracting State, the CISG will apply unless the contract's choice of law clause specifically excludes CISG terms. Conversely, in \"international\" contracts for the sale of goods between a U.S. entity and an entity of a non-Contracting State, to be adjudicated by a U.S. court, the CISG will not apply, and the contract will be governed by the domestic law applicable according to private international law rules.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30200320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30200320", "title": "Uzi-Eli Hezi", "text": "Uzi-Eli Hezi\n\nUzi-Eli Hezi (), also known as The Etrog Man is an Israeli market vendor who also claims to be an inventor, farmer, healer, and spiritual advisor. \nUzi-Eli was born in Yemen in 1942 and was airlifted to Israel in the 1950 Operation Magic Carpet. He is a third generation healer. While he is a student of the medicine of the Rambam, most of his recipes come to him in dreams.\n\nHe owns a booth at the Mahane Yehuda Market in the Nachlaot neighborhood of Jerusalem. He is noted for his use of Maimonidean and ancient remedies in his juices and cosmetics, particularly from the etrog. Two of his more popular drinks include \"etrogat\", a combination of the etrog and the gat leaf and \"Rambam's drink\", a mixture of dates and bitter and sweet almonds, along with other drinks which are labeled with various alleged health benefits.\n"}
{"id": "16076648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16076648", "title": "Wrexham Town Centre", "text": "Wrexham Town Centre\n\nWrexham Town Centre is the central business district of Wrexham, in North Wales and is the area enclosed by the inner ring road of the town. It is the largest shopping area in north and mid Wales, and the administrative centre of Wrexham County Borough. Many of its streets are pedestrianised.\n\nThe area encompassed by the inner ring road is Grosvenor Road, Powell Road, Bodhyfryd, St. Georges Crescent (The Beast Market), Smithfield Road, Eagles Meadow, Salop Road, St. Giles Way, Pen-Y-Bryn, Ruthin Road, Bradley Road and Watery Road. It is primarily urban in nature, with the exception of the town centre's largest green space at Belle-Vue Park. The area is predominately non-residential, notable exceptions being Eagles Meadow and around Parciau.\n\nThe town centre is Wrexham's medieval core, and as such contains most of its history. The town centre expands outwards from the hill top St. Giles Church, which itself is surrounded by a number of small medieval streets and alleyways.\n\nWhilst the term 'Town Centre' can be used quite liberally in Wrexham, it can be split into a number of smaller distinct areas, which have their own character and purpose within the town. Some of these are officially recognised by Wrexham Council, others are more a description of distinct areas.\n\nThis is Wrexham's original town centre, beginning at the church of St. Giles. This area was once the traditional High Street of the town containing most of its traditional shops and markets. It is now home to most of Wrexham's night-life including clubs, bars and restaurants. During the day the main attractions are the area's cafes and the historic 'Butchers Market' hall situated on High Street. The church of St. Giles is one of the Seven Wonders of Wales and often noted as the finest example of Gothic architecture in Wales. It is also home to the tomb of Elihu Yale.\n\nEagle's Meadow is an open-air shopping centre in the south-east of the town centre. Opened in 2008, the complex is situated between Yorke Street and the inner ring road at Smithfield. The area incorporates a number of new buildings and public spaces, and includes a bridge to Yorke Street and an entrance in the style of the 'Spanish Steps' in Rome. Eagle's Meadow holds many top highstreet chain stores over two levels, alongside an 8-screen cinema and 24-lane 10 pin bowling alley. It occupies the site of a former car-park and Asda superstore.\n\nFormerly known as the Civic Centre this quarter of the town centre can be thought of as everything north of Holt and Lampbit Street and east of Rhosddu Road. The area is bisected north to south by Chester Street. The area consists almost entirely of public services, arts and media centres. It is home to Wrexham County Borough Council HQ, North Wales Police (Eastern Division) HQ, BBC Wales (Wrexham) Studios, ITV Wales (Wrexham Bureau), Library and Arts Centre, Yale College of Wrexham, Wrexham Waterworld and a number of criminal and civil law courts. The area is also home to Llwyn Isaf, one of the town centre's largest green areas.\n\nFormerly an industrial area the location was home to the Island Green Brewery and Wrexham Central railway station. It is now a shopping area, developed in the late 1990s. The old oast houses used in the Brewery are now converted into apartments aside the River Gwenfro, which cuts through the shopping area. During re-development the railway station was moved 500 yards west, and the station now sits inside the shopping area. Trains run from Wrexham Central to local suburban stations, Deeside, the Wirral and Wrexham General for connections onto inter-city services.\n\nThe main arteries of the town centre link all previous areas. Running in an easterly direction from Grosvenor Road, Regent Street and Hope Street are the main shopping streets within the town, terminating at the base of St. Giles' Church on High Street. Leading off these streets are a number of other streets, including Queen Street. The majority of this area is pedestrianised, and contains a number of notable landmarks including the thatched 'Horse & Jockey' pub and mock Tudor architecture at Hope St/Queen St.\n\nThe square is the focal point in the town centre. It plays host to daily events, Christmas celebrations and weekly markets. The square merges with Llwyn Isaf.\n\nParciau is the name given to the southernmost area of the town centre. Much of the area is covered by Belle Vue Park, Wrexham, a substantial Victorian park built to commemorate the Jubilee of Wrexham's charter. The park is known for its bowl, which holds many summer musical events. Bridge Street, Pen-y-Bryn and Ruthin road all come under the Parciau area.\n"}
