{"id": "39794410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39794410", "title": "Adam Kasia", "text": "Adam Kasia\n\nAdam kasia means \"the hidden Adam\", and comes from Iranian mythology where it means the soul of the first man. The hidden Adam is also called \"Adam Qadmaia\" (\"the first Adam\"). Among the Mandean (south Iraq and south-west Iran) \"Adam kasia\" means the soul of every human. Adam Kasia shows many similarities with the Jewish idea of \"Adam Kadmon\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18932602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18932602", "title": "Adam Mickiewicz Institute", "text": "Adam Mickiewicz Institute\n\nThe Adam Mickiewicz Institute () is a government-sponsored organization funded by Poland's Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, and headquartered at \"ulica Mokotowska 25\" (the Sugar Palace) in Warsaw.\n\nNamed after Polish national poet Adam Mickiewicz, its goal is to promote the Polish language and Polish culture abroad. The Institute operates a bilingual Polish-English portal, \"Culture.pl\", founded in 2001.\n\nBesides a large number of associated poets, essayists, writers, translators, artists; literary, music, and film critics; and curators, the Institute includes Paweł Potoroczyn (director), editor-in-chief Weronika Kostyrko, and editors Mikołaj Gliński (literature), Filip Lech (music), Anna Legierska (theatre), Bartosz Staszczyszyn (film), and Agnieszka Sural (visual arts).\n\nIn addition to the Ministry-of-Culture-sponsored Adam Mickiewicz Institute, there are Polish Cultural Institutes, sponsored by the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in over 22 major foreign cities, including Berlin, Bratislava, Budapest, Bucharest, Düsseldorf, Kiev, Leipzig, London, Minsk, Moscow, New York City, Paris, Prague, Rome, Saint Petersburg, Sofia, Stockholm, Tel Aviv, Vienna, and Vilnius.\n\nWhile the Adam Mickiewicz Institute frequently collaborates with the Polish Cultural Institutes, each institution is independent of the other and is sponsored by a different Polish government ministry.\n\n"}
{"id": "83859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83859", "title": "Adolescence", "text": "Adolescence\n\nAdolescence () is a transitional stage of physical and psychological development that generally occurs during the period from puberty to legal adulthood (age of majority). Adolescence is usually associated with the teenage years, but its physical, psychological or cultural expressions may begin earlier and end later. For example, puberty now typically begins during preadolescence, particularly in females. Physical growth (particularly in males), and cognitive development can extend into the early twenties. Thus age provides only a rough marker of adolescence, and scholars have found it difficult to agree upon a precise definition of adolescence.\n\nA thorough understanding of adolescence in society depends on information from various perspectives, including psychology, biology, history, sociology, education, and anthropology. Within all of these perspectives, adolescence is viewed as a transitional period between childhood and adulthood, whose cultural purpose is the preparation of children for adult roles. It is a period of multiple transitions involving education, training, employment and unemployment, as well as transitions from one living circumstance to another.\n\nThe end of adolescence and the beginning of adulthood varies by country. Furthermore, even within a single nation state or culture there can be different ages at which an individual is considered mature enough for society to entrust them with certain privileges and responsibilities. Such privileges and responsibilities include driving a vehicle, having legal sexual relations, serving in the armed forces or on a jury, purchasing and drinking alcohol, voting, entering into contracts, finishing certain levels of education, marriage, and accountability for upholding the law. Adolescence is usually accompanied by an increased independence allowed by the parents or legal guardians, including less supervision as compared to preadolescence.\n\nIn studying adolescent development, adolescence can be defined biologically, as the physical transition marked by the onset of puberty and the termination of physical growth; cognitively, as changes in the ability to think abstractly and multi-dimensionally; or socially, as a period of preparation for adult roles. Major pubertal and biological changes include changes to the sex organs, height, weight, and muscle mass, as well as major changes in brain structure and organization. Cognitive advances encompass both increment in knowledge and in the ability to think abstractly and to reason more effectively. The study of adolescent development often involves interdisciplinary collaborations. For example, researchers in neuroscience or bio-behavioral health might focus on pubertal changes in brain structure and its effects on cognition or social relations. Sociologists interested in adolescence might focus on the acquisition of social roles (e.g., worker or romantic partner) and how this varies across cultures or social conditions. Developmental psychologists might focus on changes in relations with parents and peers as a function of school structure and pubertal status. Some scientists have questioned the universality of adolescence as a developmental phase, arguing that traits often considered typical of adolescents are not in fact inherent to the teenage years.\n\nPuberty is a period of several years in which rapid physical growth and psychological changes occur, culminating in sexual maturity. The average age of onset of puberty is at 11 for girls and 12 for boys. Every person's individual timetable for puberty is influenced primarily by heredity, although environmental factors, such as diet and exercise, also exert some influences. These factors can also contribute to precocious and delayed puberty.\n\nSome of the most significant parts of pubertal development involve distinctive physiological changes in individuals' height, weight, body composition, and circulatory and respiratory systems. These changes are largely influenced by hormonal activity. Hormones play an organizational role, priming the body to behave in a certain way once puberty begins, and an active role, referring to changes in hormones during adolescence that trigger behavioral and physical changes.\n\nPuberty occurs through a long process and begins with a surge in hormone production, which in turn causes a number of physical changes. It is the stage of life characterized by the appearance and development of secondary sex characteristics (for example, a deeper voice and larger adam's apple in boys, and development of breasts and more curved and prominent hips in girls) and a strong shift in hormonal balance towards an adult state. This is triggered by the pituitary gland, which secretes a surge of hormonal agents into the blood stream, initiating a chain reaction to occur. The male and female gonads are subsequently activated, which puts them into a state of rapid growth and development; the triggered gonads now commence the mass production of the necessary chemicals. The testes primarily release testosterone, and the ovaries predominantly dispense estrogen. The production of these hormones increases gradually until sexual maturation is met. Some boys may develop gynecomastia due to an imbalance of sex hormones, tissue responsiveness or obesity.\n\nFacial hair in males normally appears in a specific order during puberty: The first facial hair to appear tends to grow at the corners of the upper lip, typically between 14 and 17 years of age. It then spreads to form a moustache over the entire upper lip. This is followed by the appearance of hair on the upper part of the cheeks, and the area under the lower lip. The hair eventually spreads to the sides and lower border of the chin, and the rest of the lower face to form a full beard. As with most human biological processes, this specific order may vary among some individuals. Facial hair is often present in late adolescence, around ages 17 and 18, but may not appear until significantly later. Some men do not develop full facial hair for 10 years after puberty. Facial hair continues to get coarser, darker and thicker for another 2–4 years after puberty.\n\nThe major landmark of puberty for males is spermarche, the first ejaculation, which occurs, on average, at age 13. For females, it is menarche, the onset of menstruation, which occurs, on average, between ages 12 and 13. The age of menarche is influenced by heredity, but a girl's diet and lifestyle contribute as well. Regardless of genes, a girl must have a certain proportion of body fat to attain menarche. Consequently, girls who have a high-fat diet and who are not physically active begin menstruating earlier, on average, than girls whose diet contains less fat and whose activities involve fat reducing exercise (e.g. ballet and gymnastics). Girls who experience malnutrition or are in societies in which children are expected to perform physical labor also begin menstruating at later ages.\n\nThe timing of puberty can have important psychological and social consequences. Early maturing boys are usually taller and stronger than their friends. They have the advantage in capturing the attention of potential partners and in becoming hand-picked for sports. Pubescent boys often tend to have a good body image, are more confident, secure, and more independent. Late maturing boys can be less confident because of poor body image when comparing themselves to already developed friends and peers. However, early puberty is not always positive for boys; early sexual maturation in boys can be accompanied by increased aggressiveness due to the surge of hormones that affect them. Because they appear older than their peers, pubescent boys may face increased social pressure to conform to adult norms; society may view them as more emotionally advanced, despite the fact that their cognitive and social development may lag behind their appearance. Studies have shown that early maturing boys are more likely to be sexually active and are more likely to participate in risky behaviors.\n\nFor girls, early maturation can sometimes lead to increased self-consciousness, though a typical aspect in maturing females. Because of their bodies' developing in advance, pubescent girls can become more insecure and dependent. Consequently, girls that reach sexual maturation early are more likely than their peers to develop eating disorders (such as anorexia nervosa). Nearly half of all American high school girls' diets are to lose weight. In addition, girls may have to deal with sexual advances from older boys before they are emotionally and mentally mature. In addition to having earlier sexual experiences and more unwanted pregnancies than late maturing girls, early maturing girls are more exposed to alcohol and drug abuse. Those who have had such experiences tend to perform not as well in school as their \"inexperienced\" peers.\n\nGirls have usually reached full physical development around ages 15–17, while boys usually complete puberty around ages 16–17. Any increase in height beyond the post-pubertal age is uncommon. Girls attain reproductive maturity about four years after the first physical changes of puberty appear. In contrast, boys accelerate more slowly but continue to grow for about six years after the first visible pubertal changes.\n\nThe adolescent growth spurt is a rapid increase in the individual's height and weight during puberty resulting from the simultaneous release of growth hormones, thyroid hormones, and androgens. Males experience their growth spurt about two years later, on average, than females. During their peak height velocity (the time of most rapid growth), adolescents grow at a growth rate nearly identical to that of a toddler—about 4 inches (10.3 cm) a year for males and 3.5 inches (9 cm) for females. In addition to changes in height, adolescents also experience a significant increase in weight (Marshall, 1978). The weight gained during adolescence constitutes nearly half of one's adult body weight. Teenage and early adult males may continue to gain natural muscle growth even after puberty.\n\nThe accelerated growth in different body parts happens at different times, but for all adolescents it has a fairly regular sequence. The first places to grow are the extremities—the head, hands and feet—followed by the arms and legs, then the torso and shoulders. This non-uniform growth is one reason why an adolescent body may seem out of proportion.\n\nDuring puberty, bones become harder and more brittle. At the conclusion of puberty, the ends of the long bones close during the process called epiphysis. There can be ethnic differences in these skeletal changes. For example, in the United States of America, bone density increases significantly more among black than white adolescents, which might account for decreased likelihood of black women developing osteoporosis and having fewer bone fractures there.\n\nAnother set of significant physical changes during puberty happen in bodily distribution of fat and muscle. This process is different for females and males. Before puberty, there are nearly no sex differences in fat and muscle distribution; during puberty, boys grow muscle much faster than girls, although both sexes experience rapid muscle development. In contrast, though both sexes experience an increase in body fat, the increase is much more significant for girls. Frequently, the increase in fat for girls happens in their years just before puberty. The ratio between muscle and fat among post-pubertal boys is around three to one, while for girls it is about five to four. This may help explain sex differences in athletic performance.\n\nPubertal development also affects circulatory and respiratory systems as an adolescents' heart and lungs increase in both size and capacity. These changes lead to increased strength and tolerance for exercise. Sex differences are apparent as males tend to develop \"larger hearts and lungs, higher systolic blood pressure, a lower resting heart rate, a greater capacity for carrying oxygen to the blood, a greater power for neutralizing the chemical products of muscular exercise, higher blood hemoglobin and more red blood cells\".\n\nDespite some genetic sex differences, environmental factors play a large role in biological changes during adolescence. For example, girls tend to reduce their physical activity in preadolescence and may receive inadequate nutrition from diets that often lack important nutrients, such as iron. These environmental influences in turn affect female physical development.\n\nPrimary sex characteristics are those directly related to the sex organs. In males, the first stages of puberty involve growth of the testes and scrotum, followed by growth of the penis. At the time that the penis develops, the seminal vesicles, the prostate, and the bulbourethral gland also enlarge and develop. The first ejaculation of seminal fluid generally occurs about one year after the beginning of accelerated penis growth, although this is often determined culturally rather than biologically, since for many boys first ejaculation occurs as a result of masturbation. Boys are generally fertile before they have an adult appearance.\n\nIn females, changes in the primary sex characteristics involve growth of the uterus, vagina, and other aspects of the reproductive system. Menarche, the beginning of menstruation, is a relatively late development which follows a long series of hormonal changes. Generally, a girl is not fully fertile until several years after menarche, as regular ovulation follows menarche by about two years. Unlike males, therefore, females usually appear physically mature before they are capable of becoming pregnant.\n\nChanges in secondary sex characteristics include every change that is not directly related to sexual reproduction. In males, these changes involve appearance of pubic, facial, and body hair, deepening of the voice, roughening of the skin around the upper arms and thighs, and increased development of the sweat glands. In females, secondary sex changes involve elevation of the breasts, widening of the hips, development of pubic and underarm hair, widening of the areolae, and elevation of the nipples. The changes in secondary sex characteristics that take place during puberty are often referred to in terms of five Tanner stages, named after the British pediatrician who devised the categorization system.\n\nThe human brain is not fully developed by the time a person reaches puberty. Between the ages of 10 and 25, the brain undergoes changes that have important implications for behavior (see Cognitive development below). The brain reaches 90% of its adult size by the time a person is six years of age. Thus, the brain does not grow in size much during adolescence. However, the creases in the brain continue to become more complex until the late teens. The biggest changes in the folds of the brain during this time occur in the parts of the cortex that process cognitive and emotional information.\n\nOver the course of adolescence, the amount of white matter in the brain increases linearly, while the amount of grey matter in the brain follows an inverted-U pattern. Through a process called synaptic pruning, unnecessary neuronal connections in the brain are eliminated and the amount of grey matter is pared down. However, this does not mean that the brain loses functionality; rather, it becomes more efficient due to increased myelination (insulation of axons) and the reduction of unused pathways.\n\nThe first areas of the brain to be pruned are those involving primary functions, such as motor and sensory areas. The areas of the brain involved in more complex processes lose matter later in development. These include the lateral and prefrontal cortices, among other regions. Some of the most developmentally significant changes in the brain occur in the prefrontal cortex, which is involved in decision making and cognitive control, as well as other higher cognitive functions. During adolescence, myelination and synaptic pruning in the prefrontal cortex increases, improving the efficiency of information processing, and neural connections between the prefrontal cortex and other regions of the brain are strengthened. This leads to better evaluation of risks and rewards, as well as improved control over impulses. Specifically, developments in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex are important for controlling impulses and planning ahead, while development in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex is important for decision making. Changes in the orbitofrontal cortex are important for evaluating rewards and risks.\n\nThree neurotransmitters that play important roles in adolescent brain development are glutamate, dopamine and serotonin. Glutamate is an excitatory neurotransmitter. During the synaptic pruning that occurs during adolescence, most of the neural connections that are pruned contain receptors for glutamate or other excitatory neurotransmitters. Because of this, by early adulthood the synaptic balance in the brain is more inhibitory than excitatory.\n\nDopamine is associated with pleasure and attuning to the environment during decision-making. During adolescence, dopamine levels in the limbic system increase and input of dopamine to the prefrontal cortex increases. The balance of excitatory to inhibitory neurotransmitters and increased dopamine activity in adolescence may have implications for adolescent risk-taking and vulnerability to boredom (see Cognitive development below).\n\nSerotonin is a neuromodulator involved in regulation of mood and behavior. Development in the limbic system plays an important role in determining rewards and punishments and processing emotional experience and social information. Changes in the levels of the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin in the limbic system make adolescents more emotional and more responsive to rewards and stress. The corresponding increase in emotional variability also can increase adolescents' vulnerability. The effect of serotonin is not limited to the limbic system: Several serotonin receptors have their gene expression change dramatically during adolescence, particularly in the human frontal and prefrontal cortex \n\nAdolescence is also a time for rapid cognitive development. Piaget describes adolescence as the stage of life in which the individual's thoughts start taking more of an abstract form and the egocentric thoughts decrease. This allows the individual to think and reason in a wider perspective. A combination of behavioural and fMRI studies have demonstrated development of executive functions, that is, cognitive skills that enable the control and coordination of thoughts and behaviour, which are generally associated with the prefrontal cortex. The thoughts, ideas and concepts developed at this period of life greatly influence one's future life, playing a major role in character and personality formation.\n\nBiological changes in brain structure and connectivity within the brain interact with increased experience, knowledge, and changing social demands to produce rapid cognitive growth (see Changes in the brain above). The age at which particular changes take place varies between individuals, but the changes discussed below begin at puberty or shortly after that and some skills continue to develop as the adolescent ages. The dual systems model proposes a maturational imbalance between development of the socioemotional system and cognitive control systems in the brain that contribute to impulsivity and other behaviors characteristic of adolescence.\n\nThere are at least two major approaches to understanding cognitive change during adolescence. One is the constructivist view of cognitive development. Based on the work of Piaget, it takes a quantitative, state-theory approach, hypothesizing that adolescents' cognitive improvement is relatively sudden and drastic. The second is the information-processing perspective, which derives from the study of artificial intelligence and attempts to explain cognitive development in terms of the growth of specific components of the thinking process.\n\nBy the time individuals have reached age 15 or so, their basic thinking abilities are comparable to those of adults. These improvements occur in five areas during adolescence:\n\nStudies since 2005 indicate that the brain is not fully formed until the early twenties.\n\nAdolescents' thinking is less bound to concrete events than that of children: they can contemplate possibilities outside the realm of what currently exists. One manifestation of the adolescent's increased facility with thinking about possibilities is the improvement of skill in deductive reasoning, which leads to the development of hypothetical thinking. This provides the ability to plan ahead, see the future consequences of an action and to provide alternative explanations of events. It also makes adolescents more skilled debaters, as they can reason against a friend's or parent's assumptions. Adolescents also develop a more sophisticated understanding of probability.\n\nThe appearance of more systematic, abstract thinking is another notable aspect of cognitive development during adolescence. For example, adolescents find it easier than children to comprehend the sorts of higher-order abstract logic inherent in puns, proverbs, metaphors, and analogies. Their increased facility permits them to appreciate the ways in which language can be used to convey multiple messages, such as satire, metaphor, and sarcasm. (Children younger than age nine often cannot comprehend sarcasm at all.) This also permits the application of advanced reasoning and logical processes to social and ideological matters such as interpersonal relationships, politics, philosophy, religion, morality, friendship, faith, fairness, and honesty.\n\nA third gain in cognitive ability involves thinking about thinking itself, a process referred to as metacognition. It often involves monitoring one's own cognitive activity during the thinking process. Adolescents' improvements in knowledge of their own thinking patterns lead to better self-control and more effective studying. It is also relevant in social cognition, resulting in increased introspection, self-consciousness, and intellectualization (in the sense of thought about one's own thoughts, rather than the Freudian definition as a defense mechanism). Adolescents are much better able than children to understand that people do not have complete control over their mental activity. Being able to introspect may lead to two forms of adolescent egocentrism, which results in two distinct problems in thinking: the imaginary audience and the personal fable. These likely peak at age fifteen, along with self-consciousness in general.\n\nRelated to metacognition and abstract thought, perspective-taking involves a more sophisticated theory of mind. Adolescents reach a stage of social perspective-taking in which they can understand how the thoughts or actions of one person can influence those of another person, even if they personally are not involved.\n\nCompared to children, adolescents are more likely to question others' assertions, and less likely to accept facts as absolute truths. Through experience outside the family circle, they learn that rules they were taught as absolute are in fact relativistic. They begin to differentiate between rules instituted out of common sense—not touching a hot stove—and those that are based on culturally-relative standards (codes of etiquette, not dating until a certain age), a delineation that younger children do not make. This can lead to a period of questioning authority in all domains.\n\nWisdom, or the capacity for insight and judgment that is developed through experience, increases between the ages of fourteen and twenty-five, then levels off. Thus, it is during the adolescence-adulthood transition that individuals acquire the type of wisdom that is associated with age. Wisdom is not the same as intelligence: adolescents do not improve substantially on IQ tests since their scores are relative to others in their same age group, and relative standing usually does not change—everyone matures at approximately the same rate in this way.\n\nBecause most injuries sustained by adolescents are related to risky behavior (car crashes, alcohol, unprotected sex), a great deal of research has been done on the cognitive and emotional processes underlying adolescent risk-taking. In addressing this question, it is important to distinguish whether adolescents are more likely to engage in risky behaviors (prevalence), whether they make risk-related decisions similarly or differently than adults (cognitive processing perspective), or whether they use the same processes but value different things and thus arrive at different conclusions. The behavioral decision-making theory proposes that adolescents and adults both weigh the potential rewards and consequences of an action. However, research has shown that adolescents seem to give more weight to rewards, particularly social rewards, than do adults.\n\nResearch seems to favor the hypothesis that adolescents and adults think about risk in similar ways, but hold different values and thus come to different conclusions. Some have argued that there may be evolutionary benefits to an increased propensity for risk-taking in adolescence. For example, without a willingness to take risks, teenagers would not have the motivation or confidence necessary to leave their family of origin. In addition, from a population perspective, there is an advantage to having a group of individuals willing to take more risks and try new methods, counterbalancing the more conservative elements more typical of the received knowledge held by older adults. Risktaking may also have reproductive advantages: adolescents have a newfound priority in sexual attraction and dating, and risk-taking is required to impress potential mates. Research also indicates that baseline sensation seeking may affect risk-taking behavior throughout the lifespan.\n\nGiven the potential consequences, engaging in sexual behavior is somewhat risky, particularly for adolescents. Having unprotected sex, using poor birth control methods (e.g. withdrawal), having multiple sexual partners, and poor communication are some aspects of sexual behavior that increase individual and/or social risk. Some qualities of adolescents' lives that are often correlated with risky sexual behavior include higher rates of experienced abuse, lower rates of parental support and monitoring.\n\nRelated to their increased tendency for risk-taking, adolescents show impaired behavioral inhibition, including deficits in extinction learning. This has important implications for engaging in risky behavior such as unsafe sex or illicit drug use, as adolescents are less likely to inhibit actions that may have negative outcomes in the future. This phenomenon also has consequences for behavioral treatments based on the principle of extinction, such as cue exposure therapy for anxiety or drug addiction. It has been suggested that impaired inhibition, specifically extinction, may help to explain adolescent propensity to relapse to drug-seeking even following behavioral treatment for addiction.\n\nThe formal study of adolescent psychology began with the publication of G. Stanley Hall's \"Adolescence in 1904\". Hall, who was the first president of the American Psychological Association, viewed adolescence primarily as a time of internal turmoil and upheaval (\"sturm und drang\"). This understanding of youth was based on two then new ways of understanding human behavior: Darwin's evolutionary theory and Freud's psychodynamic theory. He believed that adolescence was a representation of our human ancestors' phylogenetic shift from being primitive to being civilized. Hall's assertions stood relatively uncontested until the 1950s when psychologists such as Erik Erikson and Anna Freud started to formulate their theories about adolescence. Freud believed that the psychological disturbances associated with youth were biologically based and culturally universal while Erikson focused on the dichotomy between identity formation and role fulfillment. Even with their different theories, these three psychologists agreed that adolescence was inherently a time of disturbance and psychological confusion. The less turbulent aspects of adolescence, such as peer relations and cultural influence, were left largely ignored until the 1980s. From the '50s until the '80s, the focus of the field was mainly on describing patterns of behavior as opposed to explaining them.\n\nJean Macfarlane founded the University of California, Berkeley's Institute of Human Development, formerly called the Institute of Child Welfare, in 1927. The Institute was instrumental in initiating studies of healthy development, in contrast to previous work that had been dominated by theories based on pathological personalities. The studies looked at human development during the Great Depression and World War II, unique historical circumstances under which a generation of children grew up. The Oakland Growth Study, initiated by Harold Jones and Herbert Stolz in 1931, aimed to study the physical, intellectual, and social development of children in the Oakland area. Data collection began in 1932 and continued until 1981, allowing the researchers to gather longitudinal data on the individuals that extended past adolescence into adulthood. Jean Macfarlane launched the Berkeley Guidance Study, which examined the development of children in terms of their socioeconomic and family backgrounds. These studies provided the background for Glen Elder in the 1960s, to propose a life-course perspective of adolescent development. Elder formulated several descriptive principles of adolescent development. The principle of historical time and place states that an individual's development is shaped by the period and location in which they grow up. The principle of the importance of timing in one's life refers to the different impact that life events have on development based on when in one's life they occur. The idea of linked lives states that one's development is shaped by the interconnected network of relationships of which one is a part; and the principle of human agency asserts that one's life course is constructed via the choices and actions of an individual within the context of their historical period and social network.\n\nIn 1984, the Society for Research on Adolescence (SRA) became the first official organization dedicated to the study of adolescent psychology. Some of the issues first addressed by this group include: the nature versus nurture debate as it pertains to adolescence; understanding the interactions between adolescents and their environment; and considering culture, social groups, and historical context when interpreting adolescent behavior.\n\nEvolutionary biologists like Jeremy Griffith have drawn parallels between adolescent psychology and the developmental evolution of modern humans from hominid ancestors as a manifestation of ontogeny recapitulating phylogeny.\n\nIdentity development is a stage in the adolescent life cycle. For most, the search for identity begins in the adolescent years. During these years, adolescents are more open to 'trying on' different behaviours and appearances to discover who they are. In an attempt to find their identity and discover who they are, adolescents are likely to cycle through a number of identities to find one that suits them best. Developing and maintaining identity (in adolescent years) is a difficult task due to multiple factors such as family life, environment, and social status. Empirical studies suggest that this process might be more accurately described as identity development, rather than formation, but confirms a normative process of change in both content and structure of one's thoughts about the self. The two main aspects of identity development are self-clarity and self-esteem. Since choices made during adolescent years can influence later life, high levels of self-awareness and self-control during mid-adolescence will lead to better decisions during the transition to adulthood. Researchers have used three general approaches to understanding identity development: self-concept, sense of identity, and self-esteem. The years of adolescence create a more conscientious group of young adults. Adolescents pay close attention and give more time and effort to their appearance as their body goes through changes. Unlike children, teens put forth an effort to look presentable (1991). The environment in which an adolescent grows up also plays an important role in their identity development. Studies done by the American Psychological Association have shown that adolescents with a less privileged upbringing have a more difficult time developing their identity.\n\nThe idea of self-concept is known as the ability of a person to have opinions and beliefs that are defined confidently, consistent and stable. Early in adolescence, cognitive developments result in greater self-awareness, greater awareness of others and their thoughts and judgments, the ability to think about abstract, future possibilities, and the ability to consider multiple possibilities at once. As a result, adolescents experience a significant shift from the simple, concrete, and global self-descriptions typical of young children; as children they defined themselves by physical traits whereas adolescents define themselves based on their values, thoughts, and opinions.\n\nAdolescents can conceptualize multiple \"possible selves\" that they could become and long-term possibilities and consequences of their choices. Exploring these possibilities may result in abrupt changes in self-presentation as the adolescent chooses or rejects qualities and behaviors, trying to guide the actual self toward the ideal self (who the adolescent wishes to be) and away from the feared self (who the adolescent does not want to be). For many, these distinctions are uncomfortable, but they also appear to motivate achievement through behavior consistent with the ideal and distinct from the feared possible selves.\n\nFurther distinctions in self-concept, called \"differentiation,\" occur as the adolescent recognizes the contextual influences on their own behavior and the perceptions of others, and begin to qualify their traits when asked to describe themselves. Differentiation appears fully developed by mid-adolescence. Peaking in the 7th-9th grades, the personality traits adolescents use to describe themselves refer to specific contexts, and therefore may contradict one another. The recognition of inconsistent content in the self-concept is a common source of distress in these years (see Cognitive dissonance), but this distress may benefit adolescents by encouraging structural development.\n\nEgocentrism in adolescents forms a self-conscious desire to feel important in their peer groups and enjoy social acceptance. Unlike the conflicting aspects of self-concept, identity represents a coherent sense of self stable across circumstances and including past experiences and future goals. Everyone has a self-concept, whereas Erik Erikson argued that not everyone fully achieves identity. Erikson's theory of stages of development includes the identity crisis in which adolescents must explore different possibilities and integrate different parts of themselves before committing to their beliefs. He described the resolution of this process as a stage of \"identity achievement\" but also stressed that the identity challenge \"is never fully resolved once and for all at one point in time\". Adolescents begin by defining themselves based on their crowd membership. \"Clothes help teens explore new identities, separate from parents, and bond with peers.\" Fashion has played a major role when it comes to teenagers \"finding their selves\"; Fashion is always evolving, which corresponds with the evolution of change in the personality of teenagers. Adolescents attempt to define their identity by consciously styling themselves in different manners to find what best suits them. Trial and error in matching both their perceived image and the image others respond to and see, allows for the adolescent to grasp an understanding of who they are.\n\nJust as fashion is evolving to influence adolescents so is the media. \"Modern life takes place amidst a never-ending barrage of flesh on screens, pages, and billboards.\" This barrage consciously or subconsciously registers into the mind causing issues with self-image a factor that contributes to an adolescence sense of identity. Researcher James Marcia developed the current method for testing an individual's progress along these stages. His questions are divided into three categories: occupation, ideology, and interpersonal relationships. Answers are scored based on extent to which the individual has explored and the degree to which he has made commitments. The result is classification of the individual into a) identity diffusion in which all children begin, b) Identity Foreclosure in which commitments are made without the exploration of alternatives, c) Moratorium, or the process of exploration, or d) Identity Achievement in which Moratorium has occurred and resulted in commitments.\n\nResearch since reveals self-examination beginning early in adolescence, but identity achievement rarely occurring before age 18. The freshman year of college influences identity development significantly, but may actually prolong psychosocial moratorium by encouraging reexamination of previous commitments and further exploration of alternate possibilities without encouraging resolution. For the most part, evidence has supported Erikson's stages: each correlates with the personality traits he originally predicted. Studies also confirm the impermanence of the stages; there is no final endpoint in identity development.\n\nAn adolescent's environment plays a huge role in their identity development. While most adolescent studies are conducted on white, middle class children, studies show that the more privileged upbringing people have, the more successfully they develop their identity. The forming of an adolescent's identity is a crucial time in their life. It has been recently found that demographic patterns suggest that the transition to adulthood is now occurring over a longer span of years than was the case during the middle of the 20th century. Accordingly, youth, a period that spans late adolescence and early adulthood, has become a more prominent stage of the life course. This therefore has caused various factors to become important during this development. So many factors contribute to the developing social identity of an adolescent from commitment, to coping devices, to social media. All of these factors are affected by the environment an adolescent grows up in. A child from a more privileged upbringing is exposed to more opportunities and better situations in general. An adolescent from an inner city or a crime-driven neighborhood is more likely to be exposed to an environment that can be detrimental to their development. Adolescence is a sensitive period in the development process, and exposure to the wrong things at that time can have a major effect on future decisions. While children that grow up in nice suburban communities are not exposed to bad environments they are more likely to participate in activities that can benefit their identity and contribute to a more successful identity development.\n\nSexual orientation has been defined as \"an erotic inclination toward people of one or more genders, most often described as sexual or erotic attractions\". In recent years, psychologists have sought to understand how sexual orientation develops during adolescence. Some theorists believe that there are many different possible developmental paths one could take, and that the specific path an individual follows may be determined by their sex, orientation, and when they reached the onset of puberty.\n\nIn 1989, Troiden proposed a four-stage model for the development of homosexual sexual identity. The first stage, known as sensitization, usually starts in childhood, and is marked by the child's becoming aware of same-sex attractions. The second stage, identity confusion, tends to occur a few years later. In this stage, the youth is overwhelmed by feelings of inner turmoil regarding their sexual orientation, and begins to engage sexual experiences with same-sex partners. In the third stage of identity assumption, which usually takes place a few years after the adolescent has left home, adolescents begin to come out to their family and close friends, and assumes a self-definition as gay, lesbian, or bisexual. In the final stage, known as commitment, the young adult adopts their sexual identity as a lifestyle. Therefore, this model estimates that the process of coming out begins in childhood, and continues through the early to mid 20s. This model has been contested, and alternate ideas have been explored in recent years.\n\nIn terms of sexual identity, adolescence is when most gay/lesbian and transgender adolescents begin to recognize and make sense of their feelings. Many adolescents may choose to come out during this period of their life once an identity has been formed; many others may go through a period of questioning or denial, which can include experimentation with both homosexual and heterosexual experiences. A study of 194 lesbian, gay, and bisexual youths under the age of 21 found that having an awareness of one's sexual orientation occurred, on average, around age 10, but the process of coming out to peers and adults occurred around age 16 and 17, respectively. Coming to terms with and creating a positive LGBT identity can be difficult for some youth for a variety of reasons. Peer pressure is a large factor when youth who are questioning their sexuality or gender identity are surrounded by heteronormative peers and can cause great distress due to a feeling of being different from everyone else. While coming out can also foster better psychological adjustment, the risks associated are real. Indeed, coming out in the midst of a heteronormative peer environment often comes with the risk of ostracism, hurtful jokes, and even violence. Because of this, statistically the suicide rate amongst LGBT adolescents is up to four times higher than that of their heterosexual peers due to bullying and rejection from peers or family members.\n\nThe final major aspect of identity formation is self-esteem. Self-esteem is defined as one's thoughts and feelings about one's self-concept and identity. Most theories on self-esteem state that there is a grand desire, across all genders and ages, to maintain, protect and enhance their self-esteem. Contrary to popular belief, there is no empirical evidence for a significant drop in self-esteem over the course of adolescence. \"Barometric self-esteem\" fluctuates rapidly and can cause severe distress and anxiety, but baseline self-esteem remains highly stable across adolescence. The validity of global self-esteem scales has been questioned, and many suggest that more specific scales might reveal more about the adolescent experience.\nGirls are most likely to enjoy high self-esteem when engaged in supportive relationships with friends, the most important function of friendship to them is having someone who can provide social and moral support. When they fail to win friends' approval or couldn't find someone with whom to share common activities and common interests, in these cases, girls suffer from low self-esteem. In contrast, boys are more concerned with establishing and asserting their independence and defining their relation to authority. As such, they are more likely to derive high self-esteem from their ability to successfully influence their friends; on the other hand, the lack of romantic competence, for example, failure to win or maintain the affection of the opposite or same-sex (depending on sexual orientation), is the major contributor to low self-esteem in adolescent boys. Due to the fact that both men and women happen to have a low self-esteem after ending a romantic relationship, they are prone to other symptoms that is caused by this state. Depression and hopelessness are only two of the various symptoms and it is said that women are twice as likely to experience depression and men are three to four times more likely to commit suicide (Mearns, 1991; Ustun & Sartorius, 1995).\n\nThe relationships adolescents have with their peers, family, and members of their social sphere play a vital role in the social development of an adolescent. As an adolescent's social sphere develops rapidly as they distinguish the differences between friends and acquaintances, they often become heavily emotionally invested in friends. This is not harmful; however, if these friends expose an individual to potentially harmful situations, this is an aspect of peer pressure. Adolescence is a critical period in social development because adolescents can be easily influenced by the people they develop close relationships with. This is the first time individuals can truly make their own decisions, which also makes this a sensitive period. Relationships are vital in the social development of an adolescent due to the extreme influence peers can have over an individual. These relationships become significant because they begin to help the adolescent understand the concept of personalities, how they form and why a person has that specific type of personality. \"The use of psychological comparisons could serve both as an index of the growth of an implicit personality theory and as a component process accounting for its creation. In other words, by comparing one person's personality characteristics to another's, we would be setting up the framework for creating a general theory of personality (and, ... such a theory would serve as a useful framework for coming to understand specific persons).\" This can be likened to the use of social comparison in developing one's identity and self-concept, which includes ones personality, and underscores the importance of communication, and thus relationships, in one's development. In social comparison we use reference groups, with respect to both psychological and identity development. These reference groups are the peers of adolescents. This means that who the teen chooses/accepts as their friends and who they communicate with on a frequent basis often makes up their reference groups and can therefore have a huge impact on who they become. Research shows that relationships have the largest affect over the social development of an individual.\n\nAdolescence marks a rapid change in one's role within a family. Young children tend to assert themselves forcefully, but are unable to demonstrate much influence over family decisions until early adolescence, when they are increasingly viewed by parents as equals. The adolescent faces the task of increasing independence while preserving a caring relationship with his or her parents. When children go through puberty, there is often a significant increase in parent–child conflict and a less cohesive familial bond. Arguments often concern minor issues of control, such as curfew, acceptable clothing, and the adolescent's right to privacy, which adolescents may have previously viewed as issues over which their parents had complete authority. Parent-adolescent disagreement also increases as friends demonstrate a greater impact on one another, new influences on the adolescent that may be in opposition to parents' values. Social media has also played an increasing role in adolescent and parent disagreements. While parents never had to worry about the threats of social media in the past, it has become a dangerous place for children. While adolescents strive for their freedoms, the unknowns to parents of what their child is doing on social media sites is a challenging subject, due to the increasing amount of predators on social media sites. Many parents have very little knowledge of social networking sites in the first place and this further increases their mistrust. An important challenge for the parent–adolescent relationship is to understand how to enhance the opportunities of online communication while managing its risks. Although conflicts between children and parents increase during adolescence, these are just relatively minor issues. Regarding their important life issues, most adolescents still share the same attitudes and values as their parents.\n\nDuring childhood, siblings are a source of conflict and frustration as well as a support system. Adolescence may affect this relationship differently, depending on sibling gender. In same-sex sibling pairs, intimacy increases during early adolescence, then remains stable. Mixed-sex siblings pairs act differently; siblings drift apart during early adolescent years, but experience an increase in intimacy starting at middle adolescence. Sibling interactions are children's first relational experiences, the ones that shape their social and self-understanding for life. Sustaining positive sibling relations can assist adolescents in a number of ways. Siblings are able to act as peers, and may increase one another's sociability and feelings of self-worth. Older siblings can give guidance to younger siblings, although the impact of this can be either positive or negative depending on the activity of the older sibling.\n\nA potential important influence on adolescence is change of the family dynamic, specifically divorce. With the divorce rate up to about 50%, divorce is common and adds to the already great amount of change in adolescence. Custody disputes soon after a divorce often reflect a playing out of control battles and ambivalence between parents. Divorce usually results in less contact between the adolescent and their noncustodial parent. In extreme cases of instability and abuse in homes, divorce can have a positive effect on families due to less conflict in the home. However, most research suggests a negative effect on adolescence as well as later development. A recent study found that, compared with peers who grow up in stable post-divorce families, children of divorce who experience additional family transitions during late adolescence, make less progress in their math and social studies performance over time. Another recent study put forth a new theory entitled the adolescent epistemological trauma theory, which posited that traumatic life events such as parental divorce during the formative period of late adolescence portend lifelong effects on adult conflict behavior that can be mitigated by effective behavioral assessment and training. A parental divorce during childhood or adolescence continues to have a negative effect when a person is in his or her twenties and early thirties. These negative effects include romantic relationships and conflict style, meaning as adults, they are more likely to use the styles of avoidance and competing in conflict management.\n\nDespite changing family roles during adolescence, the home environment and parents are still important for the behaviors and choices of adolescents. Adolescents who have a good relationship with their parents are less likely to engage in various risk behaviors, such as smoking, drinking, fighting, and/or unprotected sexual intercourse.\nIn addition, parents influence the education of adolescence. A study conducted by Adalbjarnardottir and Blondal (2009) showed that adolescents at the age of 14 who identify their parents as authoritative figures are more likely to complete secondary education by the age of 22—as support and encouragement from an authoritative parent motivates the adolescence to complete schooling to avoid disappointing that parent.\n\nPeer groups are essential to social and general development. Communication with peers increases significantly during adolescence and peer relationships become more intense than in other stages and more influential to the teen, affecting both the decisions and choices being made. High quality friendships may enhance children's development regardless of the characteristics of those friends. As children begin to bond with various people and create friendships, it later helps them when they are adolescent and sets up the framework for adolescence and peer groups.\nPeer groups are especially important during adolescence, a period of development characterized by a dramatic increase in time spent with peers and a decrease in adult supervision. Adolescents also associate with friends of the opposite sex much more than in childhood and tend to identify with larger groups of peers based on shared characteristics. It is also common for adolescents to use friends as coping devices in different situations. A three-factor structure of dealing with friends including avoidance, mastery, and nonchalance has shown that adolescents use friends as coping devices with social stresses.\n\nCommunication within peer groups allows adolescents to explore their feelings and identity as well as develop and evaluate their social skills. Peer groups offer members the opportunity to develop social skills such as empathy, sharing, and leadership. Adolescents choose peer groups based on characteristics similarly found in themselves. By utilizing these relationships, adolescents become more accepting of who they are becoming. Group norms and values are incorporated into an adolescent's own self-concept. Through developing new communication skills and reflecting upon those of their peers, as well as self-opinions and values, an adolescent can share and express emotions and other concerns without fear of rejection or judgment. Peer groups can have positive influences on an individual, such as on academic motivation and performance. However, while peers may facilitate social development for one another they may also hinder it. Peers can have negative influences, such as encouraging experimentation with drugs, drinking, vandalism, and stealing through peer pressure. Susceptibility to peer pressure increases during early adolescence, peaks around age 14, and declines thereafter. Further evidence of peers hindering social development has been found in Spanish teenagers, where emotional (rather than solution-based) reactions to problems and emotional instability have been linked with physical aggression against peers. Both physical and relational aggression are linked to a vast number of enduring psychological difficulties, especially depression, as is social rejection. Because of this, bullied adolescents often develop problems that lead to further victimization. Bullied adolescents are more likely to both continue to be bullied and to bully others in the future. However, this relationship is less stable in cases of cyberbullying, a relatively new issue among adolescents.\n\nAdolescents tend to associate with \"cliques\" on a small scale and \"crowds\" on a larger scale. During early adolescence, adolescents often associate in cliques, exclusive, single-sex groups of peers with whom they are particularly close. Despite the common notion that cliques are an inherently negative influence, they may help adolescents become socially acclimated and form a stronger sense of identity. Within a clique of highly athletic male-peers, for example, the clique may create a stronger sense of fidelity and competition. Cliques also have become somewhat a \"collective parent\", i.e. telling the adolescents what to do and not to do. Towards late adolescence, cliques often merge into mixed-sex groups as teenagers begin romantically engaging with one another. These small friend groups then break down further as socialization becomes more couple-oriented. On a larger scale, adolescents often associate with \"crowds\", groups of individuals who share a common interest or activity. Often, crowd identities may be the basis for stereotyping young people, such as jocks or nerds. In large, multi-ethnic high schools, there are often ethnically determined crowds. While crowds are very influential during early and middle adolescence, they lose salience during high school as students identify more individually.\n\nAn important aspect of communication is the channel used. \"Channel\", in this respect, refers to the form of communication, be it face-to-face, email, text message, phone or other. Teens are heavy users of newer forms of communication such as text message and social-networking websites such as Facebook, especially when communicating with peers. Adolescents use online technology to experiment with emerging identities and to broaden their peer groups, such as increasing the amount of friends acquired on Facebook and other social media sites. Some adolescents use these newer channels to enhance relationships with peers however there can be negative uses as well such as cyberbullying, as mentioned previously, and negative impacts on the family.\n\nRomantic relationships tend to increase in prevalence throughout adolescence. By age 15, 53% of adolescents have had a romantic relationship that lasted at least one month over the course of the previous 18 months. In a 2008 study conducted by YouGov for Channel 4, 20% of 14−17-year-olds surveyed revealed that they had their first sexual experience at 13 or under in the United Kingdom. A 2002 American study found that those aged 15–44 reported that the average age of first sexual intercourse was 17.0 for males and 17.3 for females. The typical duration of relationships increases throughout the teenage years as well. This constant increase in the likelihood of a long-term relationship can be explained by sexual maturation and the development of cognitive skills necessary to maintain a romantic bond (e.g. caregiving, appropriate attachment), although these skills are not strongly developed until late adolescence. Long-term relationships allow adolescents to gain the skills necessary for high-quality relationships later in life and develop feelings of self-worth. Overall, positive romantic relationships among adolescents can result in long-term benefits. High-quality romantic relationships are associated with higher commitment in early adulthood and are positively associated with self-esteem, self-confidence, and social competence. For example, an adolescent with positive self-confidence is likely to consider themselves a more successful partner, whereas negative experiences may lead to low confidence as a romantic partner. Adolescents often date within their demographic in regards to race, ethnicity, popularity, and physical attractiveness. However, there are traits in which certain individuals, particularly adolescent girls, seek diversity. While most adolescents date people approximately their own age, boys typically date partners the same age or younger; girls typically date partners the same age or older.\n\nSome researchers are now focusing on learning about how adolescents view their own relationships and sexuality; they want to move away from a research point of view that focuses on the problems associated with adolescent sexuality. College Professor Lucia O'Sullivan and her colleagues found that there were no significant gender differences in the relationship events adolescent boys and girls from grades 7-12 reported. Most teens said they had kissed their partners, held hands with them, thought of themselves as being a couple and told people they were in a relationship. This means that private thoughts about the relationship as well as public recognition of the relationship were both important to the adolescents in the sample. Sexual events (such as sexual touching, sexual intercourse) were less common than romantic events (holding hands) and social events (being with one's partner in a group setting). The researchers state that these results are important because the results focus on the more positive aspects of adolescents and their social and romantic interactions rather than focusing on sexual behavior and its consequences.\n\nAdolescence marks a time of sexual maturation, which manifests in social interactions as well. While adolescents may engage in casual sexual encounters (often referred to as hookups), most sexual experience during this period of development takes place within romantic relationships. Adolescents can use technologies and social media to seek out romantic relationships as they feel it is a safe place to try out dating and identity exploration. From these social media encounters, a further relationship may begin. Kissing, hand holding, and hugging signify satisfaction and commitment. Among young adolescents, \"heavy\" sexual activity, marked by genital stimulation, is often associated with violence, depression, and poor relationship quality. This effect does not hold true for sexual activity in late adolescence that takes place within a romantic relationship. Some research suggest that there are genetic causes of early sexual activity that are also risk factors for delinquency, suggesting that there is a group who are at risk for both early sexual activity and emotional distress. For older adolescents, though, sexual activity in the context of romantic relationships was actually correlated with lower levels of deviant behavior after controlling for genetic risks, as opposed to sex outside of a relationship (hook-ups)\n\nDating violence is fairly prevalent within adolescent relationships. When surveyed, 10-45% of adolescents reported having experienced physical violence in the context of a relationship while a quarter to a third of adolescents reported having experiencing psychological aggression. This reported aggression includes hitting, throwing things, or slaps, although most of this physical aggression does not result in a medical visit. Physical aggression in relationships tends to decline from high school through college and young adulthood. In heterosexual couples, there is no significant difference between the rates of male and female aggressors, unlike in adult relationships.\n\nAdolescent girls with male partners who are older than them are at higher risk for adverse sexual health outcomes than their peers. Research suggests that the larger the partner age difference, the less relationship power the girls experience. Behavioral interventions such as developing relationship skills in identifying, preventing, and coping with controlling behaviors may be beneficial. For condom use promotion, it is important to identify decision-making patterns within relationships and increase the power of the adolescent female in the relationship. Female adolescents from minority populations are at even higher risk for intimate partner violence (IPV). Recent research findings suggest that a substantial portion of young urban females are at high risk for being victims of multiple forms of IPV. Practitioners diagnosing depression among urban minority teens should assess for both physical and non-physical forms of IPV, and early detection can help to identify youths in need of intervention and care. Similarly to adult victims, adolescent victims do not readily disclose abuse, and may seek out medical care for problems not directly related to incidences of IPV. Therefore, screening should be a routine part of medical treatment for adolescents regardless of chief complaint. Many adults discount instances of IPV in adolescents or believe they do not occur because relationships at young ages are viewed as “puppy love,” however, it is crucial that adults take IPV in adolescents seriously even though often policy falls behind.\n\nIn contemporary society, adolescents also face some risks as their sexuality begins to transform. While some of these, such as emotional distress (fear of abuse or exploitation) and sexually transmitted infections/diseases (STIs/STDs), including HIV/AIDS, are not necessarily inherent to adolescence, others such as teenage pregnancy (through non-use or failure of contraceptives) are seen as social problems in most western societies. One in four sexually active teenagers will contract an STI. Adolescents in the United States often chose \"anything but intercourse\" for sexual activity because they mistakenly believe it reduces the risk of STIs. Across the country, clinicians report rising diagnoses of herpes and human papillomavirus (HPV), which can cause genital warts, and is now thought to affect 15 percent of the teen population. Girls 15 to 19 have higher rates of gonorrhea than any other age group. One-quarter of all new HIV cases occur in those under the age of 21. Multrine also states in her article that according to a March survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation, eighty-one percent of parents want schools to discuss the use of condoms and contraception with their children. They also believe students should be able to be tested for STIs. Furthermore, teachers want to address such topics with their students. But, although 9 in 10 sex education instructors across the country believe that students should be taught about contraceptives in school, over one quarter report receiving explicit instructions from school boards and administrators not to do so. According to anthropologist Margaret Mead, the turmoil found in adolescence in Western society has a cultural rather than a physical cause; they reported that societies where young women engaged in free sexual activity had no such adolescent turmoil.\n\nThere are certain characteristics of adolescent development that are more rooted in culture than in human biology or cognitive structures. Culture has been defined as the \"symbolic and behavioral inheritance received from the past that provides a community framework for what is valued\". Culture is learned and socially shared, and it affects all aspects of an individual's life. Social responsibilities, sexual expression, and belief system development, for instance, are all things that are likely to vary by culture. Furthermore, distinguishing characteristics of youth, including dress, music and other uses of media, employment, art, food and beverage choices, recreation, and language, all constitute a youth culture. For these reasons, culture is a prevalent and powerful presence in the lives of adolescents, and therefore we cannot fully understand today's adolescents without studying and understanding their culture. However, \"culture\" should not be seen as synonymous with nation or ethnicity. Many cultures are present within any given country and racial or socioeconomic group. Furthermore, to avoid ethnocentrism, researchers must be careful not to define the culture's role in adolescence in terms of their own cultural beliefs.\n\nIn Britain, teenagers first came to public attention during the Second World War, when there were fears of juvenile delinquency. By the 1950s, the media presented teenagers in terms of generational rebellion. The exaggerated moral panic among politicians and the older generation was typically belied by the growth in intergenerational cooperation between parents and children. Many working-class parents, enjoying newfound economic security, eagerly took the opportunity to encourage their teens to enjoy more adventurous lives. Schools were falsely portrayed as dangerous blackboard jungles under the control of rowdy kids. The media distortions of the teens as too affluent, and as promiscuous, delinquent, counter-cultural rebels do not reflect the actual experiences of ordinary young adults, particularly young women.\n\nThe degree to which adolescents are perceived as autonomous beings varies widely by culture, as do the behaviors that represent this emerging autonomy. Psychologists have identified three main types of autonomy: emotional independence, behavioral autonomy, and cognitive autonomy. Emotional autonomy is defined in terms of an adolescent's relationships with others, and often includes the development of more mature emotional connections with adults and peers. Behavioral autonomy encompasses an adolescent's developing ability to regulate his or her own behavior, to act on personal decisions, and to self-govern. Cultural differences are especially visible in this category because it concerns issues of dating, social time with peers, and time-management decisions. Cognitive autonomy describes the capacity for an adolescent to partake in processes of independent reasoning and decision-making without excessive reliance on social validation. Converging influences from adolescent cognitive development, expanding social relationships, an increasingly adultlike appearance, and the acceptance of more rights and responsibilities enhance feelings of autonomy for adolescents. Proper development of autonomy has been tied to good mental health, high self-esteem, self-motivated tendencies, positive self-concepts, and self-initiating and regulating behaviors. Furthermore, it has been found that adolescents' mental health is best when their feelings about autonomy match closely with those of their parents.\n\nA questionnaire called the teen timetable has been used to measure the age at which individuals believe adolescents should be able to engage in behaviors associated with autonomy. This questionnaire has been used to gauge differences in cultural perceptions of adolescent autonomy, finding, for instance, that White parents and adolescents tend to expect autonomy earlier than those of Asian descent. It is, therefore, clear that cultural differences exist in perceptions of adolescent autonomy, and such differences have implications for the lifestyles and development of adolescents. In sub-Saharan African youth, the notions of individuality and freedom may not be useful in understanding adolescent development. Rather, African notions of childhood and adolescent development are relational and interdependent.\n\nThe lifestyle of an adolescent in a given culture is profoundly shaped by the roles and responsibilities he or she is expected to assume. The extent to which an adolescent is expected to share family responsibilities is one large determining factor in normative adolescent behavior. For instance, adolescents in certain cultures are expected to contribute significantly to household chores and responsibilities. Household chores are frequently divided into self-care tasks and family-care tasks. However, specific household responsibilities for adolescents may vary by culture, family type, and adolescent age. Some research has shown that adolescent participation in family work and routines has a positive influence on the development of an adolescent's feelings of self-worth, care, and concern for others. \n\nIn addition to the sharing of household chores, certain cultures expect adolescents to share in their family's financial responsibilities. According to family economic and financial education specialists, adolescents develop sound money management skills through the practices of saving and spending money, as well as through planning ahead for future economic goals. Differences between families in the distribution of financial responsibilities or provision of allowance may reflect various social background circumstances and intrafamilial processes, which are further influenced by cultural norms and values, as well as by the business sector and market economy of a given society. For instance, in many developing countries it is common for children to attend fewer years of formal schooling so that, when they reach adolescence, they can begin working.\n\nWhile adolescence is a time frequently marked by participation in the workforce, the number of adolescents in the workforce is much lower now than in years past as a result of increased accessibility and perceived importance of formal higher education. For example, half of all 16-year-olds in China were employed in 1980, whereas less than one fourth of this same cohort were employed in 1990. \nFurthermore, the amount of time adolescents spend on work and leisure activities varies greatly by culture as a result of cultural norms and expectations, as well as various socioeconomic factors. American teenagers spend less time in school or working and more time on leisure activities—which include playing sports, socializing, and caring for their appearance—than do adolescents in many other countries. These differences may be influenced by cultural values of education and the amount of responsibility adolescents are expected to assume in their family or community.\n\nTime management, financial roles, and social responsibilities of adolescents are therefore closely connected with the education sector and processes of career development for adolescents, as well as to cultural norms and social expectations. In many ways, adolescents' experiences with their assumed social roles and responsibilities determine the length and quality of their initial pathway into adult roles.\n\nAdolescence is frequently characterized by a transformation of an adolescent's understanding of the world, the rational direction towards a life course, and the active seeking of new ideas rather than the unquestioning acceptance of adult authority. An adolescent begins to develop a unique belief system through his or her interaction with social, familial, and cultural environments. While organized religion is not necessarily a part of every adolescent's life experience, youth are still held responsible for forming a set of beliefs about themselves, the world around them, and whatever higher powers they may or may not believe in. This process is often accompanied or aided by cultural traditions that intend to provide a meaningful transition to adulthood through a ceremony, ritual, confirmation, or rite of passage.\n\nMany cultures define the transition into adultlike sexuality by specific biological or social milestones in an adolescent's life. For example, menarche (the first menstrual period of a female), or semenarche (the first ejaculation of a male) are frequent sexual defining points for many cultures. In addition to biological factors, an adolescent's sexual socialization is highly dependent upon whether their culture takes a restrictive or permissive attitude toward teen or premarital sexual activity. In the United States specifically, adolescents are said to have \"raging hormones\" that drive their sexual desires. These sexual desires are then dramatized regarding teen sex and seen as \"a site of danger and risk; that such danger and risk is a source of profound worry among adults\". There is little to no normalization regarding teenagers having sex in the U.S., which causes conflict in how adolescents are taught about sex education. There is a constant debate about whether abstinence-only sex education or comprehensive sex education should be taught in schools and this stems back to whether or not the country it is being taught in is permissive or restrictive. Restrictive cultures overtly discourage sexual activity in unmarried adolescents or until an adolescent undergoes a formal rite of passage. These cultures may attempt to restrict sexual activity by separating males and females throughout their development, or through public shaming and physical punishment when sexual activity does occur. In less restrictive cultures, there is more tolerance for displays of adolescent sexuality, or of the interaction between males and females in public and private spaces. Less restrictive cultures may tolerate some aspects of adolescent sexuality, while objecting to other aspects. For instance, some cultures find teenage sexual activity acceptable but teenage pregnancy highly undesirable. Other cultures do not object to teenage sexual activity or teenage pregnancy, as long as they occur after marriage. In permissive societies, overt sexual behavior among unmarried teens is perceived as acceptable, and is sometimes even encouraged. Regardless of whether a culture is restrictive or permissive, there are likely to be discrepancies in how females versus males are expected to express their sexuality. Cultures vary in how overt this double standard is—in some it is legally inscribed, while in others it is communicated through social convention. Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth face much discrimination through bullying from those unlike them and may find telling others that they are gay to be a traumatic experience. The range of sexual attitudes that a culture embraces could thus be seen to affect the beliefs, lifestyles, and societal perceptions of its adolescents.\n\nAdolescence is a period frequently marked by increased rights and privileges for individuals. While cultural variation exists for legal rights and their corresponding ages, considerable consistency is found across cultures. Furthermore, since the advent of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989 (children here defined as under 18), almost every country in the world (except the U.S. and South Sudan) has legally committed to advancing an anti-discriminatory stance towards young people of all ages. This includes protecting children against unchecked child labor, enrollment in the military, prostitution, and pornography.\nIn many societies, those who reach a certain age (often 18, though this varies) are considered to have reached the age of majority and are legally regarded as adults who are responsible for their actions. People below this age are considered minors or children. A person below the age of majority may gain adult rights through legal emancipation.\n\nThe legal working age in Western countries is usually 14 to 16, depending on the number of hours and type of employment under consideration. Many countries also specify a minimum school leaving age, at which a person is legally allowed to leave compulsory education. This age varies greatly cross-culturally, spanning from 10 to 18, which further reflects the diverse ways formal education is viewed in cultures around the world.\n\nIn most democratic countries, a citizen is eligible to vote at age 18. In a minority of countries, the voting age is as low as 16 (for example, Brazil), and at one time was as high as 25 in Uzbekistan.\n\nThe age of consent to sexual activity varies widely between jurisdictions, ranging from 12 to 20 years, as does the age at which people are allowed to marry. Specific legal ages for adolescents that also vary by culture are enlisting in the military, gambling, and the purchase of alcohol, cigarettes or items with parental advisory labels.\nIt should be noted that the legal coming of age often does not correspond with the sudden realization of autonomy; many adolescents who have legally reached adult age are still dependent on their guardians or peers for emotional and financial support. Nonetheless, new legal privileges converge with shifting social expectations to usher in a phase of heightened independence or social responsibility for most legal adolescents.\n\nFollowing a steady decline, beginning in the late 1990s up through the mid-2000s, illicit drug use among adolescents has been on the rise in the U.S. Aside from alcohol, marijuana is the most commonly indulged drug habit during adolescent years. Data collected by the National Institute on Drug Abuse shows that between the years of 2007 and 2011, marijuana use grew from 5.7% to 7.2% among 8th grade students; among 10th grade students, from 14.2% to 17.6%; and among 12th graders, from 18.8% to 22.6%. Additional, recent years have seen a surge in popularity of MDMA; between 2010 and 2011, the use of MDMA increased from 1.4% to 2.3% among high school seniors. The heightened usage of ecstasy most likely ties in at least to some degree with the rising popularity of rave culture.\n\nOne significant contribution to the increase in teenage substance abuse is an increase in the availability of prescription medication. With an increase in the diagnosis of behavioral and attentional disorders for students, taking pharmaceutical drugs such as Vicodin and Adderall for pleasure has become a prevalent activity among adolescents: 15.2% of high school seniors report having abused prescription drugs within the past year.\n\nTeenage alcohol drug use is currently at an all-time low. Out of a polled body of students, 4.4% of 8th graders reported having been on at least one occasion been drunk within the previous month; for 10th graders, the number was 13.7%, and for 12th graders, 25%. More drastically, cigarette smoking has become a far less prevalent activity among American middle- and high-school students; in fact, a greater number of teens now smoke marijuana than smoke cigarettes, with one recent study showing a respective 15.2% versus 11.7% of surveyed students. Recent studies have shown that male late adolescents are far more likely to smoke cigarettes rather than females. The study indicated that there was a discernible gender difference in the prevalence of smoking among the students. The finding of the study show that more males than females began smoking when they were in primary and high schools whereas most females started smoking after high school. This may be attributed to recent changing social and political views towards marijuana; issues such as medicinal use and legalization have tended towards painting the drug in a more positive light than historically, while cigarettes continue to be vilified due to associated health risks.\n\nDifferent drug habits often relate to one another in a highly significant manner. It has been demonstrated that adolescents who drink at least to some degree may be as much as sixteen times more likely than non-drinkers to experiment with illicit drugs.\n\nPeer acceptance and social norms gain a significantly greater hand in directing behavior at the onset of adolescence; as such, the alcohol and illegal drug habits of teens tend to be shaped largely by the substance use of friends and other classmates. In fact, studies suggest that more significantly than actual drug norms, an individual's perception of the illicit drug use by friends and peers is highly associated with his or her own habits in substance use during both middle and high school, a relationship that increases in strength over time. Whereas social influences on alcohol use and marijuana use tend to work directly in the short term, peer and friend norms on smoking cigarettes in middle school have a profound effect on one's own likelihood to smoke cigarettes well into high school. Perhaps the strong correlation between peer influence in middle school and cigarette smoking in high school may be explained by the addictive nature of cigarettes, which could lead many students to continue their smoking habits from middle school into late adolescence.\n\nUntil mid-to-late adolescence, boys and girls show relatively little difference in drinking motives. Distinctions between the reasons for alcohol consumption of males and females begin to emerge around ages 14–15; overall, boys tend to view drinking in a more social light than girls, who report on average a more frequent use of alcohol as a coping mechanism. The latter effect appears to shift in late adolescence and onset of early adulthood (20–21 years of age); however, despite this trend, age tends to bring a greater desire to drink for pleasure rather than coping in both boys and girls.\n\nDrinking habits and the motives behind them often reflect certain aspects of an individual's personality; in fact, four dimensions of the Five-Factor Model of personality demonstrate associations with drinking motives (all but 'Openness'). Greater enhancement motives for alcohol consumption tend to reflect high levels of extraversion and sensation-seeking in individuals; such enjoyment motivation often also indicates low conscientiousness, manifesting in lowered inhibition and a greater tendency towards aggression. On the other hand, drinking to cope with negative emotional states correlates strongly with high neuroticism and low agreeableness. Alcohol use as a negative emotion control mechanism often links with many other behavioral and emotional impairments, such as anxiety, depression, and low self-esteem.\n\nResearch has generally shown striking uniformity across different cultures in the motives behind teen alcohol use. Social engagement and personal enjoyment appear to play a fairly universal role in adolescents' decision to drink throughout separate cultural contexts. Surveys conducted in Argentina, Hong Kong, and Canada have each indicated the most common reason for drinking among adolescents to relate to pleasure and recreation; 80% of Argentinian teens reported drinking for enjoyment, while only 7% drank to improve a bad mood. The most prevalent answers among Canadian adolescents were to \"get in a party mood,\" 18%; \"because I enjoy it,\" 16%; and \"to get drunk,\" 10%. In Hong Kong, female participants most frequently reported drinking for social enjoyment, while males most frequently reported drinking to feel the effects of alcohol.\n\nMuch research has been conducted on the psychological ramifications of body image on adolescents. Modern day teenagers are exposed to more media on a daily basis than any generation before them. Recent studies have indicated that the average teenager watches roughly 1500 hours of television per year. As such, modern day adolescents are exposed to many representations of ideal, societal beauty. The concept of a person being unhappy with their own image or appearance has been defined as \"body dissatisfaction\". In teenagers, body dissatisfaction is often associated with body mass, low self-esteem, and atypical eating patterns. Scholars continue to debate the effects of media on body dissatisfaction in teens.\n\nBecause exposure to media has increased over the past decade, adolescents' utilization of computers, cell phones, stereos and televisions to gain access to various mediums of popular culture has also increased. Almost all American households have at least one television, more than three-quarters of all adolescents' homes have access to the Internet, and more than 90% of American adolescents use the Internet at least occasionally. As a result of the amount of time adolescents spend using these devices, their total media exposure is high. In the last decade, the amount of time that adolescents spend on the computer has greatly increased. Online activities with the highest rates of use among adolescents are video games (78% of adolescents), email (73%), instant messaging (68%), social networking sites (65%), news sources (63%), music (59%), and videos (57%).\n\nIn the 2000s, social networking sites proliferated and a high proportion of adolescents used them: as of 2012 73% of 12–17 year olds reported having at least one social networking profile; two-thirds (68%) of teens texted every day, half (51%) visited social networking sites daily, and 11% sent or received tweets at least once every day. More than a third (34%) of teens visited their main social networking site several times a day. One in four (23%) teens were \"heavy\" social media users, meaning they used at least two different types of social media each and every day.\n\nAlthough research has been inconclusive, some findings have indicated that electronic communication negatively affects adolescents' social development, replaces face-to-face communication, impairs their social skills, and can sometimes lead to unsafe interaction with strangers. A 2015 review reported that \"adolescents lack awareness of strategies to cope with cyberbullying, which has been consistently associated with an increased likelihood of depression.\" Studies have shown differences in the ways the internet negatively impacts the adolescents' social functioning. Online socializing tends to make girls particularly vulnerable, while socializing in Internet cafés seems only to affect boys academic achievement. However, other research suggests that Internet communication brings friends closer and is beneficial for socially anxious teens, who find it easier to interact socially online. The more conclusive finding has been that Internet use has a negative effect on the physical health of adolescents, as time spent using the Internet replaces time doing physical activities. However, the Internet can be significantly useful in educating teens because of the access they have to information on many various topics.\n\nA broad way of defining adolescence is the transition from child-to-adulthood. According to Hogan & Astone (1986), this transition can include markers such as leaving school, starting a full-time job, leaving the home of origin, getting married, and becoming a parent for the first time. However, the time frame of this transition varies drastically by culture. In some countries, such as the United States, adolescence can last nearly a decade, but in others, the transition—often in the form of a ceremony—can last for only a few days.\n\nSome examples of social and religious transition ceremonies that can be found in the U.S., as well as in other cultures around the world, are Confirmation, Bar and Bat Mitzvahs, Quinceañeras, sweet sixteens, cotillions, and débutante balls. In other countries, initiation ceremonies play an important role, marking the transition into adulthood or the entrance into adolescence. This transition may be accompanied by obvious physical changes, which can vary from a change in clothing to tattoos and scarification. Furthermore, transitions into adulthood may also vary by gender, and specific rituals may be more common for males or for females. This illuminates the extent to which adolescence is, at least in part, a social construction; it takes shape differently depending on the cultural context, and may be enforced more by cultural practices or transitions than by universal chemical or biological physical changes.\n\nAt the decision-making point of their lives, youth is susceptible to drug addiction, sexual abuse, peer pressure, violent crimes and other illegal activities. Developmental Intervention Science (DIS) is a fusion of the literature of both developmental and intervention sciences. This association conducts youth interventions that mutually assist both the needs of the community as well as psychologically stranded youth by focusing on risky and inappropriate behaviors while promoting positive self-development along with self-esteem among adolescents.\n\nThe concept of adolescence has been criticized by experts, such as Robert Epstein, who state that an undeveloped brain is not the main cause of teenagers' turmoils. Some have criticized the concept of adolescence because it is a relatively recent phenomenon in human history created by modern society, and have been highly critical of what they view as the infantilization of young adults in American society. In an article for \"Scientific American\", Robert Epstein and Jennifer Ong state that \"American-style teen turmoil is absent in more than 100 cultures around the world, suggesting that such mayhem is not biologically inevitable. Second, the brain itself changes in response to experiences, raising the question of whether adolescent brain characteristics are the cause of teen tumult or rather the result of lifestyle and experiences.\" David Moshman has also stated in regards to adolescence that brain research \"is crucial for a full picture, but it does not provide an ultimate explanation.\"\n\nOther critics of the concept of adolescence do point at individual differences in brain growth rate, citing that some (though not all) early teens still have infantile undeveloped corpus callosums, concluding that \"the adult in *every* adolescent\" is too generalizing. These people tend to support the notion that a more interconnected brain makes more precise distinctions (citing Pavlov's comparisons of conditioned reflexes in different species) and that there is a non-arbitrary threshold at which distinctions become sufficiently precise to correct assumptions afterward as opposed to being ultimately dependent on exterior assumptions for communication. They argue that this threshold is the one at which an individual is objectively capable of speaking for himself or herself, as opposed to culturally arbitrary measures of \"maturity\" which often treat this ability as a sign of \"immaturity\" merely because it leads to questioning of authorities. These people also stress the low probability of the threshold being reached at a birthday, and instead advocate non-chronological emancipation at the threshold of afterward correction of assumptions. They sometimes cite similarities between \"adolescent\" behavior and KZ syndrome (inmate behavior in adults in prison camps) such as aggression being explainable by oppression and \"immature\" financial or other risk behavior being explainable by a way out of captivity being more worth to captive people than any incremental improvement in captivity, and argue that this theory successfully predicted remaining \"immature\" behavior after reaching the age of majority by means of longer-term traumatization. In this context, they refer to the fallibility of official assumptions about what is good or bad for an individual, concluding that paternalistic \"rights\" may harm the individual. They also argue that since it never took many years to move from one group to another to avoid inbreeding in the paleolithic, evolutionary psychology is unable to account for a long period of \"immature\" risk behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "19542268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19542268", "title": "American Tongues", "text": "American Tongues\n\nAmerican Tongues is a 1988 sociolinguistic documentary examining American English dialects and accents and perceptions thereof.\n\nIt was produced and directed by Louis Alvarez and Andrew Kolker. The Center for New American Media won a Peabody Award for the film in 1987.\n"}
{"id": "6323056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6323056", "title": "Biological Sciences Curriculum Study", "text": "Biological Sciences Curriculum Study\n\nBiological Sciences Curriculum Study (BSCS) is an educational center that develops curricular materials, provides educational support, and conducts research and evaluation in the fields of science and technology. It was formed in 1958, and became an independent non-profit organization in 1973, headquartered in Colorado Springs, Colorado.\n\nSoon after receiving a National Science Foundation grant in 1958, the American Institute of Biological Sciences established the base for BSCS activities at the University of Colorado at Boulder. Arnold Grobman, a herpetologist, served as the first director of BSCS, from 1958 until 1965. Hiram Bentley Glass, a geneticist, chaired the first Steering Committee (later the Board) from 1959 until 1965. The BSCS leadership during its first decade of operation was mainly made up of professional biologists. These professional biologists worked with high school educators and administrators to develop and implement new curriculum materials.\n\nDuring the first Steering Committee meetings in 1959, the BSCS decided to target high school biology, mainly at the tenth-grade level, for improvement. In the summer of 1960, the BSCS convened an intensive summer writing conference in Boulder, at which three new high school biology textbooks were developed. The three versions were: Blue, a molecular biology approach; Green, an ecology approach; and Yellow, a cellular biology approach. These three versions, and their corresponding newly developed laboratory exercises, were piloted at high schools around the United States during the 1960-61 school year. The curriculum materials were then revised during the summer of 1961 based on feedback from teachers, students and professional biologists, and tested again during 1961-62. In 1963, the three textbook versions were published commercially.\n\nAll three BSCS curriculum versions stressed key biological themes, such as science as inquiry, the complementarity of structure and function, genetic continuity and evolution. The BSCS textbooks emphasized evolution as a major scientific theory at a time when it was largely omitted from existing high school curricula, and the BSCS organization has remained committed to the teaching of evolution since its inception.\n\nThe BSCS also expanded its work beyond standard tenth-grade biology curriculum to produce educational materials for exceptional students, for teachers, and for all educational levels, from kindergarten to adult.\n\nTo advance the teaching of science, BSCS developed a lesson structure they call the \"BSCS 5E Instructional Model\", standing for the different sections of a lesson. It is important to note that it is NOT considered that these 5 sections—that this lesson—would be done in a single 50-60 minute class period. These 5 E's include: Engage, Explore, Explain, Elaborate, Evaluate.\n\nThe use of this model brings coherence to different teaching strategies, provides connections among educational activities, and helps science teachers make decisions about interactions with students.\nEach phase of the model and a short phrase to indicate its purpose from a student perspective are:\n\nDuring the Cold War, in 1957, the Soviet Union successfully launched the first Earth orbiting artificial satellite, Sputnik I. The event triggered alarm in United States by heightening fears there that the Soviet Union were achieving technological and strategic superiority. One response to what the Americans termed the \"Sputnik crisis\" was to invest money and expertise towards a re-invigoration of the country's science and technological educational system. It was during this period that the BSCS was engaged to develop updated high school biology textbooks. The biology texts they developed covered evolutionary theory, which was by this time overwhelmingly accepted as biology's central organizing principle.\n\nThese books became widely used in the nation's high schools, and as a consequence, the public controversy about the teaching of evolution in public schools re-ignited. After a 1968 Supreme Court decision nullified decades-old laws prohibiting the teaching of evolution in many places of the country, some evolution opponents turned their efforts against the public funding of evolutionary teaching, including publicly funded textbooks. The BSCS textbooks were featured in the 1973 case \"Willoughby v. Stever\", a suit filed by an evangelical opponent of evolution who attempted, and failed, to have the evolution instruction in the textbook legally recognized as an unconstitutional establishment of religious secularism. The case was dismissed as meritless, and was cited as legal precedent in other groundbreaking decisions in the American cultural battle over evolution in the schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879495", "title": "Butters' Very Own Episode", "text": "Butters' Very Own Episode\n\n\"Butters Very Own Episode\" is the fourteenth and final episode of the fifth season of the animated television series \"South Park\", and the 79th episode of the series overall. \"Butters' Very Own Episode\" originally aired in the United States on Comedy Central on December 12, 2001. In the episode, Butters survives a murder attempt by his own mother after discovering his father's homosexual dalliances and must travel back to South Park in time for his parents' wedding anniversary at Bennigan's. Meanwhile, Butters' parents join John and Patsy Ramsey, Gary Condit, and O. J. Simpson in lying to the press about who murdered Butters.\n\nThe episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker and is rated TV-MA in the United States, except on syndicated broadcasts, where the episode is rated TV-14, instead. It is notable for being the first episode to center around Butters and a parody of 1950s sitcoms, albeit in a more dark comedic route.\n\nButters expresses excitement about his parents' upcoming anniversary, which they are going to celebrate at Butters' favorite restaurant, Bennigan's. A few days before their anniversary, Mrs. Stotch asks Butters to spy on Mr. Stotch in order to find out what his gift for her will be so that her own won't fall short. While spying, Butters watches his dad enter first a gay theater and then a gay bathhouse (though Butters is too naive to understand the nature of his father's activity). Upon returning home, Butters reports to his mother about his father's whereabouts, leaving her appalled by her husband's homosexual affairs, becoming visibly distraught and unhinged. Mrs. Stotch then attempts to murder Butters by dumping her car in a river with him inside.\n\nHours later, Mr. Stotch enters the home to find his wife attempting to hang herself. He rushes to her side and explains that his homoerotic tendencies stem from chatting with other bi-curious and married men on the Internet. He insists he still loves her and doesn't want to lose his family over his \"addiction\". Mrs. Stotch then reveals to her husband to having drowned Butters. He promises that he will not let her go to jail. The next day, the Stotches confront the press about their son, stating that he was abducted by \"some Puerto Rican guy\". Here the episode alludes to the case of Susan Smith, replicating the murder method and that a black man is blamed for the act. As the media centers in on the \"missing child\" case, the pair are inducted into a club of infamous, highly publicized characters whose loved ones have also been \"taken from them by Some Puerto Rican Guy\", including Gary Condit, O. J. Simpson, and John and Patricia Ramsey. The induction ritual includes the chanting of \"one of us, one of us, gooble-gobble, gooble-gobble\", an homage to the 1932 movie \"Freaks\". \n\nButters, however, has survived his mother's attempt to kill him. He does not have an idea this was her intention and brushes it off as an accident, and sets off home, eager to get back in time to celebrate his parents' anniversary with them. First he has to do some singing and dancing at a seedy 'dance' club, and then he has to head down a very scary road. He returns home to find his parents fighting over all the lies they have told, and shocks them that he is still alive. Upon hearing what the quarrel was about, he scolds them for lying and trying to teach him to lie. \n\nDeciding to follow in their son's footsteps, they come clean to the media about the cover-up, revealing many unsettling facts to Butters in the process. Afterwards, Stan, Kyle and Cartman chastise Butters about his unhinged parents. Although he attempts to make light of the situation, Butters admits that he is now probably scarred for life and sometimes lying really can be for the best.\n\nWritten by series co-creator Trey Parker and directed by animation director Eric Stough, \"Butters' Very Own Episode\" was rated TV-MA in the United States, and originally aired on December 12, 2001 on Comedy Central.\nIn the DVD commentary, Parker and Stone indicate they planned to make Butters the fourth group member after Kenny was written off the show, and created this episode as a prelude to his assuming a more prominent role in the series.\n\nIGN gave \"Butters Very Own Episode\" a positive rating of 8.5, stating, \"There are several classic moments in this episode, but it all works so well because of the setup.\"\n\nAt the time of the episode, public opinion held that Gary Condit had probably killed Chandra Levy and the Ramseys had probably killed their daughter JonBenét. However, someone else was later convicted for the murder of Chandra Levy and Condit was exonerated. The Ramsey family were also by the district attorney in the case. In a 2011 interview, \"South Park\" creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone stated that they regretted how Condit and the Ramseys were portrayed in the episode.\n\n\"Butters' Very Own Episode\", along with the fourteen other episodes from \"South Park: the Complete Fifth Season\", were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on February 22, 2005. The set includes brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode. The episode was also released on the two-disc DVD collection \"A Little Box of Butters\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3620488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3620488", "title": "Canadian Ukrainian", "text": "Canadian Ukrainian\n\nCanadian Ukrainian (, ) is a dialect of the Ukrainian language specific to the Ukrainian Canadian community descended from the first two waves of historical Ukrainian emigration to Western Canada.\n\nCanadian Ukrainian was widely spoken from the beginning of Ukrainian settlement in Canada in 1892 until the mid-20th century. Because Ukrainian Canadians are largely descended from emigrants from the Austro-Hungarian provinces of Galicia and Bukovina, where some self-identified as Rusyns or Ruthenians rather than Ukrainians proper, it is most similar to the dialects spoken in these areas, not in the Russian Empire- administered areas where Ukrainian was spoken. As such Canadian Ukrainian contains many more loanwords from Polish, German, and Romanian, and fewer from Russian, than does modern standard Ukrainian, which is mostly based on the dialect spoken in central Ukraine, particularly in the Cherkasy, Poltava and Kiev areas.\n\nThe first two waves of immigrants (1882—1914, 1918—1939) spoke the dialects of what is now western Ukraine, but they were cut off from their co-linguists by wars and social changes, and half the globe. Ukrainophones in Canada were also exposed to speakers of many other languages in Canada, especially English. As well, the mostly impoverished peasants were introduced to many new technologies and concepts, for which they had no words. Consequently, Canadian Ukrainian began to develop in new directions from the language in the \"Old Country\".\n\nThe vocabulary of the dialect, circa the 1920s, consisted of mostly of common Ukrainian words, dialecticisms from Western Ukraine, and Ukrainianizations of English words. For example, concepts that were well known from the pre-emigration period continued to be called be their Ukrainian names, as in \"vuhillia\" (coal), \"kukhnia\" (kitchen), and \"oliia\" (oil). However, for new concepts that had not existed in rural Austria-Hungary in the late 19th and early twentieth century, English words were simply adapted in Ukrainian speech, as in \"trak\" \"truck\", \"pamps\" \"pumps\", \"kesh régyster\" \"cash register\", or \"risít\" \"receipt\".\n\nPrior to the First World War the Anglo-Canadian authorities in many areas did allow some Ukrainian-language instruction in public schools, as minority language rights had been given a degree of protection early in the history of the West, during the Manitoba Schools Question. However, during the war era nativist attitudes came to the fore and all minority language rights were revoked. Speaking Ukrainian in school was expressly forbidden by Anglo-Canadian authorities for most of the mid-20th Century. Ukrainian would not again be spoken in Western Canadian public schools until policy of multiculturalism became official in the very late 1960s.\n\nEconomically, Ukrainian speakers in Canada tended to lag behind others because of the need for English in most fields of labour. Ukrainians also faced ridicule and intimidation from some in the majority community for not speaking English only, particularly if they moved outside the majority ethnic-Ukrainian rural Bloc Settlements. Those migrating to other rural areas or from the countryside to nearby cities such as Edmonton and Winnipeg were often quicker to lose their language. Ukrainian language use became associated with rural backwardness and went into relative decline, and would only increase with the introduction of a new wave of post-World War II immigrant speakers who spoke, by and large, a Modern or Standard Ukrainian, and not Canadian Ukrainian.\n\nThe interval census years 1961-1971 witnessed the first absolute decline in the number of individuals claiming Ukrainian as their mother tongue (361,496 to 309,860). The rate of decline has increased precipitously such that in 1981 there were 254,690 individuals who claimed Ukrainian as their mother tongue, while only 187,015 did so in 1991. The number of Ukrainian speakers in Canada continues to decline although less if only because of the change in the demographic structure of the Ukrainian ethnic group; the last post-war wave of immigrant native Ukrainian language speakers have largely disappeared as a significant statistical category. Consequently, in 1996, a total of 162,695 individuals claimed Ukrainian as their mother tongue, while in 2001 the number dropped, albeit at a lesser rate, to 148,085.\n\nThe data on Ukrainian home language use reveals that, in terms of routine family use, Ukrainian is marginal although there are some curious recent developments. Ukrainian home language use has been consistently declining, such that, in 1996, only 49,985 individuals identified Ukrainian as the language used routinely in the home. This however would increase to 67,665 in 2001, presumably the result of the arrival of post-independence Ukrainian immigrants and their children.\n\nIn the context of Canadian multiculturalism, the effect on Ukrainian language use of official provincial educational policies, which are much more sympathetic to the teaching of so-called 'heritage languages', is unknown. Nevertheless, Ukrainian language private schools exist across the country while Ukrainian is taught in both public and Catholic elementary and high schools as well as at several universities in Canada, notably on the Prairies.\n\nAccording to the Canada 2001 Census, 148,085 people in Canada claimed Ukrainian as their sole\n\"mother tongue\". No provision however is made in the Canada Census for identifying dialects. Therefore, data on the Canadian Ukrainian dialect are unknown.\n\nProvincially, the largest Ukrainian speaking population resides in Ontario. Ukrainophones there, however, are a small percentage of the population, while on the Prairies the percentage is much higher. Very few Ukrainian speakers are present in either Atlantic and Northern Canada.\n\nThis poem about the Canadian Red Ensign comes from a \"bukvar\" (\"basal reader\") published in Winnipeg in 1925. The Canadian Red Ensign was the unofficial flag of Canada at the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4748259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4748259", "title": "Caribbean folklore", "text": "Caribbean folklore\n\nMany elements of Caribbean folklore (the orally transmitted beliefs, myths, tales, and practices of a group of people) are African in origin, given that slaves brought from Africa's West (or Gold) Coast made up a large majority of those brought to the region.\n\nVery popular in terms of Caribbean story-telling, and a direct transfer from West Africa to the Caribbean are the Anancy Stories (Nancy Stories) told throughout the region. Ananse is the Ashanti word for spider, and the trickster Anancy (also known as Ananci, Ananse, Anansi, Ananci Krokoko, and Brer Nancy), with his quick-witted intelligence and his knack for surviving the odds, often through trickery, is the most popular of this genre of African-Caribbean folk-tale characters, although there are other West African influences, in folk story characters, including the hare (chief character in the Yoruba folktales) and the tortoise, which features in the stories of the Ibo people.\n\nIn addition to these stories, African religious figures also comprise a significant part of Caribbean folklore, many of the supernatural folklore figures possessing characteristics which are identical with those of African deities, and include:\n\n\"Papa Bois\", who appears in many different forms, sometimes as a deer, or in old ragged clothes, sometimes hairy and though very old, extremely strong and muscular, with cloven hoofs and leaves growing out of his beard. As the guardian of the animals and the custodian of the trees, he is known to sound a cow's horn to warn his friends of the approach of hunters. He doesn't tolerate killing for killing's sake, and the wanton destruction of the forest.\n\n\"La Diablesse\", the devil woman, is sometimes personified as an old crone, who steps forth with her cloven hoof from behind a tree on a lonely road, the sound of chains mingling with the rustle of her petticoat. Sometimes she takes the form of a beautiful woman, to lure some unsuspecting passerby to his death or perhaps to madness. Although she may appear young, she will be dressed in the ancient costume of these islands: a brilliant madras turban, chemise with half sleeves and much embroidery and lace, \"zepingue tremblant\" (\"trembling pins of gold\"), and all the finery of the by-gone days. Even when she appears beautiful, there is something that betrays her - she often has one hoof and a normal human foot or two hooves which she uses her long, flowing gown to hide.\n\n\"Mama Dlo\" or \"Mama Dglo\" (known in West Africa today as Mammy Wata) whose name is derived from the French \"maman de l'eau\" which means \"mother of the water\" is akin to the mermaid figure of European folklore and represents West African water spirits and there is a spirit called a cocoya who feasts on children then eats them up - they also can change into different shapes.\n\nThe \"Soucouyant\", whose French-derived names comes from the word \"to suck\", is personified by a woman, often old, who sheds her skin at night and flies through the skies, sometimes as a ball of flame, to suck blood from her victims.\n\nThe \"Ligahoo\" or \"Loup Garou\" is a shape changer, a man who has power over nature and the capacity to change form to that of an animal. Or in Caribbean Myths the Loup-Garou is a man who made a deal with the devil, to have the ability to change form (to a werewolf) so that at night he could go around to kill without ever being caught.\n\nSome contemporary Caribbean writers explore Afro-Caribbean folklore themes in their novels, including Nalo Hopkinson, Wayne Gerard Trotman and Marie-Elena John.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33946289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33946289", "title": "Clothing insulation", "text": "Clothing insulation\n\nClothing insulation is the thermal insulation provided by clothing.\n\n__toc__\nEven if the main role of clothing is to protect from the cold, protective clothing also exists to protect from heat, such as for metallurgical workers or firemen. As regards thermal comfort, only the first case is considered.\n\nThere are three kinds of heat transfer: conduction (exchange of heat through contact), convection (movement of fluids), and radiation.\n\nAir has a low thermal conductivity but is very mobile. There are thus two elements that are important in protecting from the cold:\n\n\nAnother important factor is humidity. Water is a better conductor of heat than air, thus if clothes are damp — because of sweat, rain, or immersion — water replaces some or all of the air between the fibres of the clothing, causing thermal loss through conduction and/or evaporation.\n\nThermal insulation is thus optimal with three layers of clothing:\n\nThe three layers of air between the skin and the exterior layer also play an insulating role. If the clothing is squeezed tight (as by the straps of a backpack), insulation will be poorer in those places.\n\nClothing insulation may be expressed in clo units. The clo has the same dimensions as the R value used to describe insulation used in residential and commercial construction. The clo value is also similar in magnitude to the R value:\nThis is the amount of insulation that allows a person at rest to maintain thermal equilibrium in an environment at 21°C (70°F) in a normally ventilated room (0.1 m/s air movement).\n\nThere are a number of ways to determine clothing insulation provided by clothes, but the most accurate according to ASHRAE Fundamentals are measurements on heated manikins and on active subjects. Equations may then be used to calculate the thermal insulation.\nBecause clothing insulation cannot be measured for most routine engineering applications, tables of measured values for various clothing ensembles can be used.\nAccording to ASHRAE-55 2010 standard, there are three methods for estimating clothing insulation using the tables provided.\n\nAnother unit which is used is the \"tog\":\nThe word \"togs\" is a British slang term for clothes.\n\nOther factors that influence the clothing insulation are posture and activity. Sitting or lying change the thermal insulation due to the compression of air layers in the clothing, but at the same time - depending on the materials that are made of - chairs and bedding can provide considerable insulation. While it is possible to determine the increase of insulation provided by chairs, sleeping or resting situations are more difficult to evaluate unless the individual is completely immobile.\nBody motion decreases the insulation of a clothing ensemble by pumping air through clothing openings and/or causing air motion within the clothing. This effect varies considerably depending on the nature of the motion and of the clothing. Accurate estimates of clothing insulation for an active person are therefore not available, unless measurements are made for the specific condition (e.g., with a walking manikin).\nA rough estimate of the clothing insulation for an active person is:\n\nI = I ×(0.6+0.4/M) 1.2 met < M < 2.0 met\n\nwhere M is the metabolic rate in met units and I is the insulation without activity. For metabolic rates less than or equal to 1.2 met, no adjustment is recommended.\n\nClothing insulation is correlated with outdoor air temperature, indoor operative temperatures, relative humidity and also by the presence of a dress code in the environment in question.\nRecent studies have developed dynamic predictive clothing insulation models that allow more precise thermal comfort calculation, energy simulation, HVAC sizing and building operation than previous practice. As a matter of fact, usually simplifications are used (0.5 clo in the summer, 1.0 in the winter). This may lead to systems that are incorrectly sized and/or operated. A model that is able to predict how building occupants change their clothing would greatly improve HVAC system operation.\n\nAs mentioned, clothing adaptation has an important role in achieving thermal comfort and is probably the most effective adjustment that occupants can make to adapt themselves in a thermal environment. Moreover, clothing variability may also depend on factors unrelated to thermal conditions, such as for a dress code or social influences, style preferences that may differ due to gender or work position. According to ASHRAE-55 standard, only if individuals are freely making adjustments in clothing to suit their thermal preferences, it is acceptable to use a single representative average value for everyone.\n\nSome basic insulation values can be considered as examples of typical conditions\n\nThe ambient temperature at which someone's body will be at thermal equilibrium depends on the rate of heat generation per unit area \"P\" and the thermal insulance of the clothing \"R\". The empirical formula is:\n\nor, if \"R\" is taken to be the number of clos and \"P\" the number of watts per square metre,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883529", "title": "Cultural landscape", "text": "Cultural landscape\n\nA cultural landscape, as defined by the World Heritage Committee, is the \"cultural properties [that] represent the combined works of nature and of man.\"\n\n\nThe concept of 'cultural landscapes' can be found in the European tradition of landscape painting. From the 16th century onwards, many European artists painted landscapes in favor of people, diminishing the people in their paintings to figures subsumed within broader, regionally specific landscapes.\n\nThe word \"landscape\" itself combines 'land' with a verb of Germanic origin, \"scapjan/ schaffen\" to mean, literally, 'shaped lands'. Lands were then considered shaped by natural forces, and the unique details of such \"landshaffen\" (shaped lands) became themselves the subject of 'landscape' paintings.\n\nThe geographer Otto Schlüter is credited with having first formally used “cultural landscape” as an academic term in the early 20th century. In 1908, Schlüter argued that by defining geography as a \"Landschaftskunde\" (landscape science) this would give geography a logical subject matter shared by no other discipline. He defined two forms of landscape: the \"Urlandschaft\" (transl. original landscape) or landscape that existed before major human induced changes and the \"Kulturlandschaft\" (transl. 'cultural landscape') a landscape created by human culture. The major task of geography was to trace the changes in these two landscapes.\"\n\nIt was Carl O. Sauer, a human geographer, who was probably the most influential in promoting and developing the idea of cultural landscapes. Sauer was determined to stress the agency of culture as a force in shaping the visible features of the Earth’s surface in delimited areas. Within his definition, the physical environment retains a central significance, as the medium with and through which human cultures act. His classic definition of a 'cultural landscape' reads as follows:\n\"“The cultural landscape is fashioned from a natural landscape by a cultural group. Culture is the agent, the natural area is the medium, the cultural landscape is the result\"\"\n\nSince Schlüter's first formal use of the term, and Sauer's effective promotion of the idea, the concept of 'cultural landscapes has been variously used, applied, debated, developed and refined within academia. In the 1950s, for instance, J.B. Jackson and his publication 'Landscape' influenced a generation of particularly American scholars, including architectural historians Denise Scott Brown, and Gwendolyn Wright. \n\nBy 1992, the World Heritage Committee elected to convene a meeting of the 'specialists' to advise and assist redraft the Committee's Operational Guidelines to include 'cultural landscapes' as an option for heritage listing properties that were neither purely natural nor purely cultural in form (i.e. 'mixed' heritage).<br>\n\nThe World Heritage Committee's adoption and use of the concept of 'cultural landscapes' has seen multiple specialists around the world, and many nations identifying 'cultural landscapes', assessing 'cultural landscapes', heritage listing 'cultural landscapes', managing 'cultural landscapes', and effectively making 'cultural landscapes' known and visible to the world, with very practical ramifications and challenges.\n\nA 2006 academic review of the combined efforts of the World Heritage Committee, multiple specialists around the world, and nations to apply the concept of 'cultural landscapes', observed and concluded that:\n\"Although the concept of landscape has been unhooked for some time from its original art associations ... there is still a dominant view of landscapes as an inscribed surface, akin to a map or a text, from which cultural meaning and social forms can simply be read.\"\n\nWithin academia, any system of interaction between human activity and natural habitat is regarded as a cultural landscape. In a sense this understanding is broader than the definition applied within UNESCO, including, as it does, almost the whole of the world's occupied surface, plus almost all the uses, ecologies, interactions, practices, beliefs, concepts, and traditions of people living within cultural landscapes. Following on this, geographer Xoán Paredes defines cultural landscape as:\n\"... the environment modified by the human being in the course of time, the long-term combination between anthropic action on this environment and the physical constraints limiting or conditioning human activity. It is a geographical area – including natural and cultural resources – associated to historical evolution, which gives way to a recognizable landscape for a particular human group, up to the point of being identifiable as such by others.\"\n\nSome Universities now offer specialist degrees in the study of cultural landscapes, including, for instance, the Universities of Naples, St.-Étienne, and Stuttgart who offer a Master of Cultural Landscapes diploma.\n\nThe World Heritage Committee has identified and listed a number of areas or properties as cultural landscapes of universal value to humankind, including the following:\n\n\"In 1993 Tongariro National Park, became the first property to be inscribed on the World Heritage List under the revised criteria describing cultural landscapes. The mountains at the heart of the park have cultural and religious significance for the Maori people and symbolize the spiritual links between this community and its environment. The park has active and extinct volcanoes, a diverse range of ecosystems and some spectacular landscapes.\"\n\n\"This park, formerly called Uluru (Ayers Rock – Mount Olga) National Park, features spectacular geological formations that dominate the vast red sandy plain of central Australia. Uluru, an immense monolith, and Kata Tjuta, the rock domes located west of Uluru, form part of the traditional belief system of one of the oldest human societies in the world. The traditional owners of Uluru-Kata Tjuta are the Anangu Aboriginal people.\"\n\n\"For 2,000 years, the high rice fields of the Ifugao have followed the contours of the mountains. The fruit of knowledge handed down from one generation to the next, and the expression of sacred traditions and a delicate social balance, they have helped to create a landscape of great beauty that expresses the harmony between humankind and the environment.\"\n\n\"In the 19th century Sintra became the first centre of European Romantic architecture. Ferdinand II turned a ruined monastery into a castle where this new sensitivity was displayed in the use of Gothic, Egyptian, Moorish and Renaissance elements and in the creation of a park blending local and exotic species of trees. Other fine dwellings, built along the same lines in the surrounding serra, created a unique combination of parks and gardens which influenced the development of landscape architecture throughout Europe\". \n\n\"The Ligurian coast between Cinque Terre and Portovenere is a cultural landscape of great scenic and cultural value. The layout and disposition of the small towns and the shaping of the surrounding landscape, overcoming the disadvantages of a steep, uneven terrain, encapsulate the continuous history of human settlement in this region over the past millennium.\"\n\nHortobágy National Park is the largest continuous natural grassland in Europe, which means that it was not formed as a result of deforestation or river control. The first Hungarian national park (established in 1973), it is the country's largest protected area (82 thousand hectares). A significant part of it is Biosphere Reserve and a quarter of its area enjoys international protection under the Ramsar Convention on the conservation of wetlands.\n\nThe Matobo Hills area exhibits a profusion of distinctive rock landforms rising above the granite shield that covers much of Zimbabwe. The large boulders provide abundant natural shelters and have been associated with human occupation from the early Stone Age right through to early historical times, and intermittently since. They also feature an outstanding collection of rock paintings. The Matopo Hills continue to provide a strong focus for the local community, which still uses shrines and sacred places closely linked to traditional, social and economic activities.\n\n\"The 18th- and 19th-century cultural landscape of Dresden Elbe Valley ... features low meadows, and is crowned by the Pillnitz Palace and the centre of Dresden with its numerous monuments and parks from the 16th to 20th centuries. The landscape also features 19th- and 20th-century suburban villas and gardens and valuable natural features.\"\n\nThis landscape was struck from the World Heritage list in 2009, due to the construction of a four lane highway across the Elbe\n\n\"The West Lake Cultural Landscape of Hangzhou, comprising the West Lake and the hills surrounding its three sides, has inspired famous poets, scholars and artists since the 9th century. It comprises numerous temples, pagodas, pavilions, gardens and ornamental trees, as well as causeways and artificial islands.\"\n\nQhapaq Ñan is an extensive Inca communication, trade and defense network of roads covering 30,000  km. Constructed by the Incas over several centuries and partly based on pre-Inca infrastructure, this extraordinary network through one of the world’s most extreme geographical terrains linked the snow-capped peaks of the Andes – at an altitude of more than 6,000 m – to the coast, running through hot rainforests, fertile valleys, and absolute deserts. It reached its maximum expansion in the 15th century when it spread across the length and breadth of the Andes. The Qhapac Ñan, Andean Road System includes 273 component sites spread over more than 6,000  km that were selected to highlight the social, political, architectural and engineering achievements of the network, along with its associated infrastructure for trade, accommodation, and storage, as well as sites of religious significance. [16]\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "965233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965233", "title": "Culture of Iran", "text": "Culture of Iran\n\nThe culture of Iran (), also known as culture of Persia, is one of the oldest in the world. Owing to its dominant geo-political position and culture in the world, Iran has directly influenced cultures and peoples as far away as Italy, Macedonia, and Greece to the West, Russia to the North, the Arabian Peninsula to the South, and South and East Asia to the East.\nThus an eclectic cultural elasticity has been said to be one of the key defining characteristics of the Persian spirit and a clue to its historical longevity.\nFurthermore, Iran's culture has manifested itself in several facets throughout the history of Iran as well as the Caucasus, Central Asia, Anatolia, and Mesopotamia. \n\nThe article uses the words \"Persian\" and \"Iranian\" interchangeably, sometimes referring to the language and its speakers, and other times referring to the name of pre-20th century Iran, a nomenclature which survives from western explorers and orientalists. They are not the same and the cultures of the peoples of Greater Persia are the focus of this article.\n\nIran has one of the richest art heritages in world history and encompasses many disciplines including architecture, painting, weaving, pottery, calligraphy, metalworking and stonemasonry. There is also a very vibrant Iranian modern and contemporary art scene.\n\nIranian art has gone through numerous phases. The unique aesthetics of Iran is evident from the Achaemenid reliefs in Persepolis to the mosaic paintings of Bishapur. The Islamic era brought drastic changes to the styles and practice of the arts, each dynasty with its own particular foci. The Qajarid era was the last stage of classical Persian art, before modernism was imported and suffused into elements of traditionalist schools of aesthetics.\n\nSeveral languages are spoken in different regions of Iran. The predominant language and national language is Persian, which is spoken across the country. Azerbaijani is spoken primarily and widely in the northwest, Kurdish primarily in the west as well as Luri, Mazandarani and Gilaki at the Caspian Sea coastal regions, Arabic primarily in the Persian Gulf coastal regions, Balochi primarily in the desolate and remote far southeast, and Turkmen primarily in northern border regions. Smaller languages spread in other regions notably include Talysh, Georgian, Armenian, Assyrian, and Circassian, amongst others.\n\nPersian literature inspired Goethe, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and many others, and it has been often dubbed as a most worthy language to serve as a conduit for poetry. Dialects of Persian are sporadically spoken throughout the region from China to Syria to Russia, though mainly in the Iranian Plateau.\n\nContemporary Iranian literature is influenced by classical Persian poetry, but also reflects the particularities of modern-day Iran, through writers such as Houshang Moradi-Kermani, the most translated modern Iranian author, and poet Ahmad Shamlou.\n\nZoroastrianism was the national faith of Iran for more than a millennium before the Arab conquest. It has had an immense influence on Iranian philosophy, culture and art after the people of Iran converted to Islam.\n\nToday of the 98% of Muslims living in Iran, around 89% are Shi’a and only around 9% are Sunni.This is quite the opposite trend of the percentage distribution of Shi’a to Sunni Islam followers in the rest of the Muslim population from state to state (primarily in the Middle East) and throughout the rest of the world. This data is from the government of Iran and most likely contains false information. It is very likely that the percentage of Muslims living in Iran is highly exaggerated as Islam is forced under the Islamic Republic's sharia law.\n\nFollowers of the Baha'i faith comprise the largest non-Muslim minority in Iran. Followers of the Baha'i faith are scattered throughout small communities in Iran, although there seems to be a large population of people who follow the Baha'i faith in Tehran. Most of the Baha'i are of Persian descent, although there seem to be many among the Azerbaijani and Kurdish people. The Baha'i are severely persecuted.\n\nFollowers of the Christian faith comprise around 250,000 Armenians, around 32,000 Assyrians, and a small number of Roman Catholic, Anglican, and Protestant Iranians that have been converted by missionaries in earlier centuries. Thus, Christians that live in Iran are primarily descendants of indigenous Christians that were converted during the 19th and 20th centuries. Judaism is an officially recognized faith in Iran, and in spite of the hostilities between Iran and Israel over the Palestinian issue, the millennia old Jewish community in Iran enjoys the right to practice their religion freely as well as a dedicated seat in parliament to a representative member of their faith. In addition to Christianity and Judaism, Zoroastrianism is another officially recognized religion in Iran, although followers of this faith do not hold a large population in Iran. In addition, although there have been isolated incidences of prejudice against Zoroastrians, most followers of this faith have not been persecuted for being followers of this faith.\n\nThe Persian year begins in the vernal equinox: if the astronomical vernal equinox comes before noon, then the present day is the first day of the Persian year. If the equinox falls after noon, then the next day is the official first day of the Persian year. The Persian Calendar, which is the official calendar of Iran, is a solar calendar with a starting point that is the same as the Islamic calendar. According to the Iran Labor Code, Friday is the weekly day of rest. Government official working hours are from Saturday to Wednesday (from 8 am to 4 pm).\n\nAlthough the date of certain holidays in Iran are not exact (due to the calendar system they use, most of these holidays are around the same time), some of the major public holidays in Iran include Oil Nationalization Day (20 March), Nowrooz—which is the Iranian equivalent of New Years (20 March), the Prophet’s Birthday and Imam Sadeq (4 June), and the Death of Imam Khomeini (5 June). Additional holidays include The Anniversary of the Uprising Against the Shah (30 January), Ashoura (11 February), Victory of the 1979 Islamic Revolution (2 April), Sizdah-Bedar—Public Outing Day to end Nowrooz (1 April), and Islamic Republic Day (20 January).\n\nThere are two stages in a typical wedding ritual in Iran. Usually both phases take place in one day. The first stage is known as \"Aghd\", which is basically the legal component of marriage in Iran. In this process, the Bride and Groom as well as their respective guardians sign a marriage contract. This phase usually takes place in the bride's home. After this legal process is over, the second phase, \"Jashn-e Aroosi\" takes place. In this step, which is basically the wedding reception, where actual feasts and celebrations are held, typically lasts from about 3–7 days. The ceremony takes place in a decorated room with flowers and a beautifully decorated spread on the floor. This spread is typically passed down from mother to daughter and is composed of very nice fabric such as \"Termeh\" (cashmere), \"Atlas\" (gold embroidered satin), or \"Abrisham\" (silk).\n\nItems are placed on this spread: a Mirror (of fate), two Candelabras (representing the bride and groom and their bright future), a tray of seven multi-colored herbs and spices (including poppy seeds, wild rice, angelica, salt, nigella seeds, black tea, and frankincense). These herbs and spices play specific roles ranging from breaking spells and witchcraft, to blinding the evil eye, to burning evil spirits. In addition to these herbs/spices, a special baked and decorated flatbread, a basket of decorated eggs, decorated almonds, walnuts and hazelnuts (in their shell to represent fertility), a basket of pomegranates/apples (for a joyous future as these fruits are considered divine), a cup of rose water (from special Persian roses)—which helps perfume the air, a bowl made out of sugar (apparently to sweeten life for the newlywed couple), and a brazier holding burning coals and sprinkled with wild rue (as a way to keep the evil eye away and to purify the wedding ritual) are placed on the spread as well. Finally, there are additional items that must be placed on the spread, including a bowl of gold coins (to represent wealth and prosperity), a scarf/shawl made of silk/fine fabric (to be held over the bride and groom’s head at certain points in the ceremony), two sugar cones—which are ground above the bride and groom's head, thus symbolizing sweetness/happiness, a cup of honey (to sweeten life), a needle and seven strands of colored thread (the shawl that is held above the bride and groom’s head is sewn together with the string throughout the ceremony), and a copy of the couple’s Holy Book (other religions require different texts); but all of these books symbolize God's blessing for the couple.\nAn early age in marriage—especially for brides—is a long documented feature of marriage in Iran. While the people of Iran have been trying to legally change this practice by implementing a higher minimum in marriage, there have been countless blocks to such an attempt. Although the average age of women being married has increased by about five years in the past couple decades, young girls being married is still common feature of marriage in Iran—even though there is an article in the Iranian Civil Code that forbid the marriage of women younger than 15 years of age and males younger than 18 years of age.\n\nIn Iran, Persian rugs have always been a vital part of the Persian culture.\n\nIranians were some of the first people in history to weave carpets. First deriving from the notion of basic need, the Persian rug started out as a simple/pure weave of fabric that helped nomadic people living in ancient Iran stay warm from the cold, damp ground. As time progressed, the complexity and beauty of rugs increased to a point where rugs are now bought as decorative pieces.\nBecause of the long history of fine silk and wool rug weaving in Iran, Persian rugs are world-renowned as some of the most beautiful, intricately designed rugs available. Around various places in Iran, rugs seem to be some of the most prized possessions of the local people. Iran currently produces more rugs and carpets than all other countries in the world put together.\n\nWith 300 international awards in the past 10 years, Iranian films continue to be celebrated worldwide. The best known Persian directors are Abbas Kiarostami, Majid Majidi, Jafar Panahi and Asghar Farhadi.\n\nThere is a resurgence of interest in Iranian contemporary artists and in artists from the larger Iranian diaspora. Key notables include Shirin Aliabadi, Mohammed Ehsai, Ramin Haerizadeh, Rokni Haerizadeh, Golnaz Fathi, Monir Shahroudy Farmanfarmaian, Parastou Forouhar, Pouran Jinchi, Farhad Moshiri, Shirin Neshat, Parviz Tanavoli, Y. Z. Kami, and Charles Hossein Zenderoudi.\n\nThe music of Persia dates to before the days of Barbod in the royal Sassanid courts. This is where many music cultures trace their distant origins.\n\nThere are countless numbers of traditional tea-houses (\"chai khooneh\") throughout Iran, and each province features its own unique cultural presentation of this ancient tradition. However, there are certain traits which are common to all tea-houses, especially the most visible aspects, strong \"chai\" (tea) and the ever-present \"ghalyan hookah\". Almost all tea-houses serve \"baqleh\", steam boiled fava beans (in the pod), served with salt and vinegar, as well as a variety of desserts and pastries. Many tea-houses also serve full meals, typically a variety of kebabs, as well as regional specialties.\n\nThe Persian garden was designed as a reflection of paradise on earth; the word \"garden\" itself coming from Persian roots. The special place of the garden in the Iranian heart can be seen in their architecture, in the ruins of Iran, and in their paintings.\n\nCuisine in Iran is considered to be one of the most ancient forms of cuisine around the world. Bread is arguably the most important food in Iran, with a large variety of different bread, some of the most popular of which include: nan and hamir, which are baked in large clay ovens (also called \"tenurs\"). In Iranian cuisine, there are many dishes that are made from dairy products. One of the most popular of which includes yoghurt (\"mast\")—which has a specific fermentation process that is widely put to use amongst most Iranians. In addition, mast is used to make soup and is vital in the production of oil. In addition to these dairy products, Iranian cuisine involves a lot of dishes cooked from rice. Some popular rice dishes include boiled rice with a variety of ingredients such as meats, vegetables, and seasonings (\"plov\") including dishes like chelo-horesh, shish kebab with rice, chelo-kebab, rice with lamb, meatballs with rice, and kofte (plain boiled rice). In addition, Iranian cuisine is famous for its sweets. One of the most famous of which includes \"baklava\" with almonds, cardamom, and egg yolks. Iranian sweets typically involve the use of honey, cinnamon, lime juice, and sprouted wheat grain. One very popular dessert drink in Iran, \"sherbet sharbat-portagal\", is made from a mixture of orange peel and orange juice boiled in thin sugar syrup and diluted with rose water. Just like the people of many Middle Eastern countries the most preferred drink of the people of Iran is tea (without milk) or \"kakhve-khana\".\n\n\nSince the 1979 Revolution, Iranian women have had more opportunities in some areas and more restrictions in others. One of the striking features of the Revolution was the large scale participation of women from traditional backgrounds in demonstrations leading up to the overthrow of the monarchy. The Iranian women who had gained confidence and higher education during the Pahlavi era participated in demonstrations against the Shah to topple the monarchy. The culture of education for women was established by the time of revolution so that even after the revolution, large numbers of women entered civil service and higher education, and in 1996 fourteen women were elected to the Islamic Consultative Assembly. In 2003, Iran's first woman judge during the Pahlavi era, Shirin Ebadi, won the Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts in promoting human rights.\n\nAccording to a UNESCO world survey, at the primary level of enrollment Iran has the highest female to male ratio in the world among sovereign nations, with a female to male ratio of 1.22 : 1.00. By 1999, Iran had 140 female publishers, enough to hold an exhibition of books and magazines published by women. As of 2005, 65% of Iran's university students and 43% of its salaried workers were women. and as of early 2007 nearly 70% of Iran's science and engineering students are women. This has led to many female school and university graduates being under-utilized. This is beginning to have an effect on Iranian society and was a contributing factor to protests by Iranian youth.\n\nDuring recent decades, Iranian women have had significant presence in Iran's scientific movement, art movement, literary new wave and contemporary Iranian cinema. Women account for 60% of all students in the natural sciences, including one in five PhD students.\n\nIranians celebrate the following days based on a solar calendar, in addition to important religious days of Islamic and Shia calendars, which are based on a lunar calendar.\n\nLike the Persian carpet that exhibits numerous colors and forms in a dazzling display of warmth and creativity, Persian culture is the glue that bonds the peoples of western and central Asia. The Caucasus and Central Asia \"occupy an important place in the historical geography of Persian civilization. Much of the region was included in the Pre-Islamic Persian empires, and many of its ancient peoples either belonged to the Iranian branch of the Indo-European peoples (e.g. Medes and Soghdians), or were in close cultural contact with them (e.g. the Armenians). In the words of Iranologist Richard Nelson Frye:\n\nThe Culture of Persia has thus developed over several thousand years. But historically, the peoples of what are now Iran, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Georgia, are related to one another as part of the larger group of peoples of the Greater Iranian cultural and historical sphere. The Northern Caucasus is well within the sphere of influence of Persian culture as well, as can be seen from the many remaining relics, ruins, and works of literature from that region.(e.g. 1) (e.g. 2)\n\nFrom the humble brick, to the windmill, Persians have mixed creativity with art and offered the world numerous contributions. What follows is a list of just a few examples of the cultural contributions of Greater Iran.\n\n\n\nVideos\n"}
{"id": "21719426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21719426", "title": "Diego Caballero Sugar Mill", "text": "Diego Caballero Sugar Mill\n\nThe historic Sugar Mill of Diego Caballero is located roughly 8 km from San Cristobal in San Cristobal Province, Dominican Republic. The mill was originally established by Don Diego Caballero de la Rosa, who was councilor of Hispaniola (present day Dominican Republic and Haiti).\nThe sugar mill at one point had a church with full clergy and approximately 60 stone houses for its population of African slaves, Indians, and Spaniards.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on April 5, 2002 in the Cultural category.\n\n[http://whc.unesco.org/en/tentativelists/1713/ The Ancient Diego Caballero Sugar Mill [Ruta de Los Ingenios] - UNESCO World Heritage Centre] Accessed 2009-02-26.\n\nSchoenrich, O. (1918), Santo Domingo: A Country with a Future, Macmillan.\n"}
{"id": "7825533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7825533", "title": "Eating Media Lunch", "text": "Eating Media Lunch\n\n\"Eating Media Lunch\" (EML) was a satirical New Zealand news show hosted by Jeremy Wells. It aired on TV 2 and online on TVNZ OnDemand from 2003 to 2008. The show was frequently controversial during its run.\n\nIn 2005 it shocked some viewers when it depicted two newsreaders fornicating (a parody of Naked News). It frequently caused complaints to the Broadcasting Standards Authority, ranging from complaints about the show's treatment of New Zealand celebrities to complaints about an episode which showed a cat in a microwave oven. Producer Paul Casserly noted that portrayals of violence against animals were certain to attract complaints, such as the show which claimed to feature famous sheep Shrek being slaughtered, while the spoof Maori porn movie 'Anal Mana' saw no complaints.\n\nThe show features a regular animated segment by Anthony Ellison titled Media Dog which was available online. Since 2004 the series had included an annual 'awards' show which \"honour[s] the absurd and the unusual as seen on television, radio and newspapers\" categories include: \"Services to Scaremongering, Worst Moment on Reality TV, The Inappropriate Touching Award and the much coveted New Zealander of the Year trophy.\"\n\nThe 2006 season featured former Close Up reporter Hugh Sundae as well as Matt Heath and Chris Stapp from Back of the Y. According to TVNZ the 2006 season tackled \"racism, reality TV and the country's best-known protesters\". The 2008 season won best comedy at the Qantas Film and TV Awards.\n\nIn 2009 when TVNZ faced $25 million in budget cuts as a result of the recession and declining advertising revenue, the network made the decision not to commission a 2009 season of Eating Media Lunch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5762528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5762528", "title": "Escorted tour", "text": "Escorted tour\n\nEscorted tours are a form of tourism in which travelers are escorted in a group to various destinations, versus a self-guided tour where the tourist is on their own. \n\nEscorted tours are also known as \"Guided tours\" or \"Package Tours\".\n\nEscorted tours are normally conducted by a tour director who takes care of all services from the beginning to end of the tour. Escorted tours also normally include the flights, hotels, transportation, transfers to the airport/hotel, most meals and some sightseeing. Escorted tours are often conducted by motor coach and usually no more than three nights are spent in each location visited. They are usually fast-paced and prices include most everything.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57852827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57852827", "title": "Ethnostatistics", "text": "Ethnostatistics\n\nEthnostatistics is the study of the social activity of producing and using statistics. The premise of the area of study is that statistics are themselves not neutral facts, but are themselves influenced by the social biases of the persons involved in their production. The concept was suggested in John Kitsuse or Aaron Cicourel in their 1962 article, \"A Note on Official Statistics\", published in \"Social Problems\", where they suggested that \"criminal statistics\" are indicative of the social organization of the agencies responsible for assembling them. The concept was developed by sociologist Robert Gephart in his 1988 book, \"Ethnostatistics\". The field of study \"uses concepts from ethnomethodology to study sensemaking practices that social scientists employ in the production, interpretation, and display of statistics created in social research\". As of the early 2000s, there were three \"levels\" of ethnostatistics, the first examining the social production of statistics, the second using computer simulations to examine the degree to which methods of gathering statistics may distort data, and third examining the persuasive effect of statistics on their end consumer.\n"}
{"id": "6131412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6131412", "title": "Faddan More Psalter", "text": "Faddan More Psalter\n\nThe Faddan More Psalter () (also Irish Bog Psalter or \"Faddan Mor Psalter\") is an early medieval Christian psalter or text of the book of Psalms, discovered in a peat bog in July 2006, in the townland of Faddan More () in north County Tipperary, Ireland. The manuscript was probably written in about 800 in one of a number of monasteries in the area. A unique feature is that the inside of the leather cover is lined with papyrus, probably as a stiffening, an indication of the links between the Irish and Coptic churches at the time. After several years of conservation work, the psalter went on display at the National Museum of Ireland in Kildare St, Dublin in June 2011.\n\nThis discovery was hailed by the National Museum of Ireland as one of the most significant Irish archaeological finds in decades. Bernard Meehan of the Trinity College Library, who was called in to advise on the discovery, said that he believed the psalter was the first discovery of an Irish early medieval manuscript in two centuries. During the conservation process, in the period 2006–2010, the lining of the binding was found to have elements of papyrus, adding further evidence to the known links between Irish Celtic Christianity and the Egyptian Coptic Church.\n\nThe psalter joins the very small number of very early Western books that have survived fully intact with their original bookbindings. These mostly have their origins in the monastic Insular art of Britain and Ireland, and the Celtic and Anglo-Saxon missions to Europe. The earliest is the St Cuthbert Gospel of about 700 (British Library), and other examples probably of the mid-8th century are at Fulda on the continent. However the wallet-like style of the Faddan More binding, and the fact that it does not seem to have been physically attached to the sewn-together pages, make it unique among surviving covers.\n\nThe psalter contains the Latin text of the Psalms, complete on 60 sheets of vellum in five gatherings or quires. The text is a Gallican version of the Vulgate, written in Insular majuscule letters in a single column. The first letter of each psalm has a capital and, as is often the case, the opening words of psalms 1, 51 and 101 are decorated, using black, red, and yellow.\n\nThe original leather binding has a fold-over flap with three horn buttons that were probably used to secure a thong or straps, now missing, that tied the cover up; it does not seem to have been physically attached to the gathered and sewn-together pages inside, forming what we might call today a folder or wallet. Similar covers seem to be shown in some images in manuscripts, but no comparable covers have survived. The outside of the cover was \"painted with black carbon-based pigment\". The leather seems to have been used as a trial piece or sketchpad for composing patterns of interlace for other objects. On the inside there is a sheet of papyrus, presumably used as a liner to stiffen the cover somewhat.\n\nLow oxygen levels in the bog provide unusual preservation conditions, and bogs were often used by Irish monks as hiding places for valuables in the face of Viking raids. In addition to low oxygen levels, sphagnum moss, of which the peat bog is composed, produces an antibiotic substance called sphagnan that binds with proteins on the surface of microorganisms, immobilising them. Its highly reactive carbonyl groups can alter chemicals and nutrients that would otherwise decompose organic matter. And above all the sphagnum moss causes organic material to undergo chemical changes itself that make it impervious to rot.\n\nIt was uncovered by bulldozer driver Eddie Fogarty, a worker extracting peat with a backhoe. Dr. Patrick Wallace, director of the National Museum, praised Fogarty for immediately having covered the book with damp soil, as exposure to dry air after so many centuries of dampness might have destroyed it. The book was initially stored in refrigeration at the National Museum. Identifying the safest way to pry open the pages without damaging or destroying them was expected to take months, and conservation work to take two years. The area around Faddan More Bog is rich in medieval history. Monastic foundations such as Lorrha and Terryglass in County Tipperary and Birr and Seirkieran in County Offaly are located nearby.\n\nThe bog is owned by local brothers Kevin and Patrick Leonard. Six years before the psalter find, a leather satchel was found that, by radiocarbon dating, was estimated to originate from between the seventh and ninth centuries. This was located just 100m from the psalter findspot and is of a similar date suggesting that the satchel may have originally contained the book. Additionally, in the years prior to 2006, two ancient wooden vessels were also found in the same bog.\n\nWhen found, the book was opened to a page displaying Psalm (in the Septuagint numbering), which corresponds with in the Masoretic numbering used in most English-language translations. Due to confusion regarding differences in numbering the Psalms, some news sites implied that the Psalter was open at the . That psalm contains such lines as \"They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance\"; this reference to the attempted destruction of Israel connected the find in some people's minds with the contemporaneous 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict. The matter was clarified by the director of the National Museum of Ireland, who pointed out the difference in Septuagint vs. Masoretic numbering and that the displayed psalm contains no reference to the destruction of Israel.\n\nThe National Museum of Ireland consulted with specialists in archaeological conservation and book conservation about the best way to conserve the psalter, and received partly conflicting advice. Ultimately a multi-phase conservation plan was determined. The first phase involved non-destructive examination of the psalter in the form in which it was discovered – e.g., photography, MRI scanning, and examination of the binding by book-binding specialists. In the second phase, experiments were done on 18th century parchments to determine the best way of drying waterlogged parchment. The most effective method involved soaking the parchment in ethanol to replace the water, placing it between blotting sheets, and vacuum-packing it. In the third phase, this technique was tested on small fragments of the psalter, and found to be effective. Conservators then began applying this method to larger sections of the psalter, and found they could consistently achieve shrinkage of only 2–5%, against 75% on a small fragment that was air-dried.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "476499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=476499", "title": "False protagonist", "text": "False protagonist\n\nIn fiction, a false protagonist is a literary technique, often used to make the plot more jarring or more memorable by fooling the audience's preconceptions, that constructs a character who the audience assumes is the protagonist but is later revealed not to be.\n\nA false protagonist is presented at the start of the fictional work as the main character, but then is eradicated, often by killing them (usually for shock value or as a plot twist) or changed in terms of their role in the story (i.e. making them a lesser character, a character who leaves the story, or revealing them to actually be the antagonist).\n\nIn film, a character can be made to seem like the main protagonist based on a number of techniques (beyond just simply focusing the plot on their role). Star power is a very effective method; audience members generally assume that the biggest \"name\" in a movie will have a significant part to play. An abundance of close-ups can also be used as a subliminal method. Generally, the star of a film will get longer-lasting and more frequent close-ups than any other character, but this is rarely immediately apparent to viewers during the film. Alternatively, the false protagonist can serve as a narrator to the movie, encouraging the audience to assume that the character survives to tell their tale later.\n\nMany of the same techniques used in film can also apply to television, but the episodic nature adds an additional possibility. By ending one or more episodes with the false protagonist still in place, the show can reinforce the viewers' belief in the character's protagonist status. Also, because TV shows often have changes of cast between seasons, some series can have unintentional false protagonists: characters who begin the series as the main character but then are replaced early in the show's run by another character entirely. When the series is viewed as a whole, this can lead to the appearance of a false protagonist.\n\nIn video games, a false protagonist may initially be a playable character, only to be killed or revealed to be the antagonist. One key way in which video games employ the method that differs from uses in non-interactive fiction is by granting the player direct control over the false protagonist. Since most video games allow a player to control only the main characters (and their success or failure is based on playing skill, not pre-determined story), the sudden demise of the character that is being controlled serves to surprise the player.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18820107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18820107", "title": "Female epic", "text": "Female epic\n\nThe female epic is a concept in literary criticism that seeks to expand generic boundaries by identifying ways in which women authors have adapted the masculine epic tradition to express their own heroic visions.\n\nHistorically, epic literature has been considered an exclusively male domain, to the extent that \"epic and masculinity appear to be almost coterminous.\" From Homer's Iliad to Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", the epic canon has been defined by works authored by men, and the characteristic subject matter and diction of the epic have carried connotations of masculinity. Recently, however, feminist literary critics have identified a number of texts written by women which, they argue, deserve to be considered epics, as they have many of the required qualities: emphasis on heroism, nation building, religious authority, a strong quest motif, and significant length. Because these texts post-date Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" – conventionally considered to be the last authentic epic in the Western tradition – they are by default \"modern epics\".\nHowever, argue these critics, this is by no means a contradiction. The epic remains an authentic and vital literary genre, and one to which women have made valuable contributions.\n\nThe breadth of these studies is indicated by the essays in Bernard Schweizer's \"Approaches to the Anglo and American Female Epic, 1621-1982\" (2006), which features studies of, among others, Lady Mary Wroth’s \"The Countesse of Montgomeries Urania\", Mary Tighe’s \"Psyche\", Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s \"Aurora Leigh\", Sharon Doubiago’s \"Hard Country\", and Rebecca West’s \"Black Lamb and Grey Falcon\".\n\n"}
{"id": "172655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172655", "title": "Galahad", "text": "Galahad\n\nSir Galahad (; sometimes referred to as Galeas or Galath ), in Arthurian legend, is a knight of King Arthur's Round Table and one of the three achievers of the Holy Grail. He is the illegitimate son of Sir Lancelot and Elaine of Corbenic, and is renowned for his gallantry and purity as the most perfect of all knights. Emerging quite late in the medieval Arthurian tradition, Sir Galahad first appears in the Lancelot–Grail cycle, and his story is taken up in later works such as the Post-Vulgate Cycle and Sir Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". His name should not be mistaken with Galehaut, a different knight from Arthurian legend.\n\nThe story of Galahad and his quest for the Holy Grail is a relatively late addition to the Arthurian legend. Galahad does not feature in any romance by Chrétien de Troyes, or in Robert de Boron's \"Perceval\", or in any of the continuations of Chrétien's story of the mysterious castle of the Fisher King. He first appears in a 13th-century Old French Arthurian epic, the interconnected set of romances known as the Vulgate Cycle. \n\nThe original conception of Galahad, whose adult exploits are first recounted in the fourth book of the Vulgate Cycle, may derive from the Cistercian Order. According to some interpreters, the philosophical inspiration of the celibate, otherworldly character of the monastic knight Galahad came from this monastic order set up by St. Bernard of Clairvaux. The Cistercian-Bernardine concept of Catholic warrior-asceticism that so distinguishes the character of Galahad also informs St. Bernard's projection of ideal chivalry in his work on the Knights Templar, \"De laude novae militiae\". Significantly, in the narratives, Galahad is associated with a white shield with a vermilion cross, the very same emblem given to the Knights Templar by Pope Eugene III.\n\nThe circumstances surrounding the conception of the boy Galahad are explained by Sir Thomas Malory and derive from the Gareth-Grail cycle. It happens when King Arthur's greatest knight, Lancelot, mistakes Elaine of Corbenic for his secret mistress, Queen Guinevere. According to Malory, King Pelles has already received magical foreknowledge that Lancelot will give his daughter a child and that this little boy will grow to become the greatest knight in the world, the knight chosen by God to discover the Holy Grail. Pelles also knows that Lancelot will only lie with his one true love, Guinevere. Destiny will have to be helped along a little; therefore, a conclusion which prompts Pelles to seek out \"one of the greatest enchantresses of the time,\" Dame Brusen, who gives Pelles a magic ring that will make Elaine take on the appearance of Guinevere. Lancelot and Elaine sleep together, but on discovering the deception, Lancelot then gets his clothes on and runs, leaving Elaine, but when he finds out that they have conceived a son together, he is immediately forgiving; however, he does not marry Elaine or even wish to be with her anymore and returns to Arthur's court. The young Galahad is born and placed in the care of a great aunt, who is an abbess at a nunnery, to be raised there.\n\nAccording to the 13th-century Old French Prose Lancelot (part of the Vulgate Cycle), \"Galahad\" was Lancelot's original name, but it was changed when he was a child. At his birth, therefore, Galahad is given his father's own original name. Merlin prophesies that Galahad will surpass his father in valor and be successful in his search for the Holy Grail. Pelles, Galahad's maternal grandfather, is portrayed as a descendant of Bron, Joseph of Arimathea's brother-in-law, whose line was entrusted with the Grail by Joseph.\n\nUpon reaching adulthood, Galahad is reunited with his father Lancelot, who knights him. Galahad is then brought to King Arthur's court at Camelot during Pentecost, where he is accompanied by a very old knight who immediately leads him over to the Round Table and unveils his seat at the Siege Perilous, an unused chair that has been kept vacant for the sole person who will succeed in the quest of the Holy Grail. For all others who have aspired to sit there, it has proved to be immediately fatal. Galahad survives this test, witnessed by Arthur who, upon realizing the greatness of this new knight, leads him out to the river where a sword lies in a stone with an inscription reading \"Never shall man take me hence but only he by whose side I ought to hang; and he shall be the best knight of the world.\" (The embedding of a sword in a stone is also an element of the legends of Arthur's original sword, the sword in the stone.) Galahad accomplishes this test with ease, and Arthur swiftly proclaims him to be the greatest knight ever. Galahad is promptly invited to become a Knight of the Round Table, and soon afterwards, Arthur's court witnesses an ethereal vision of the Grail. The quest to seek out this holy object is begun at once.\n\nAll of the Knights of the Round Table set out to find the Grail. It is Galahad who takes the initiative to begin the search for the Grail; the rest of the knights follow him. Arthur is sorrowful that all the knights have embarked thus, for he discerns that many will never be seen again, dying in their quest. Arthur fears that it is the beginning of the end of the Round Table. This might be seen as a theological statement that concludes that earthly endeavors must take second place to the pursuit of the holy. Galahad, in some ways, mirrors Arthur, drawing a sword from a stone in the way that Arthur did. In this manner, Galahad is declared to be the chosen one.\n\nGalahad for the most part travels alone, smiting his enemies, rescuing Percival from twenty knights and saving maidens in distress, until he is finally reunited with Bors and Percival. These three knights then come across Percival's sister, who leads them to the grail ship. They cross the sea in this ship and when they arrive on a distant shore, Percival's sister is forced to die to save another. Bors departs from the company in order to take her body back to her own country for a proper burial. \n\nAfter many adventures, Galahad and Percival find themselves at the court of Pelles and Eliazar, his son. These men bring Galahad into a room where he is finally allowed to see the Holy Grail. Galahad is asked to take the vessel to the holy island Sarras. After seeing the Grail, Galahad, however, makes the request that he may die at the time of his choosing. So it is, while making his way back to Arthur's court, Galahad is visited by Joseph of Arimathea, and thus experiences such glorious rapture that he makes his request to die. Galahad bids Percival and Bors farewell, and angels take him to Heaven, an ascension witnessed by Bors and Percival. While it is not explicit that the Holy Grail is never to be seen again on earth, it is stated (in Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\") that there has since then been no knight capable of obtaining it.\n\nGalahad's success in the high religious endeavor that was the search for the Holy Grail was predicted before his birth, not only by Pelles but by Merlin: Merlin had told Uther Pendragon that there was one who would fill the place at the “table of Joseph”, but that he was not yet born. At first this knight was believed to be Perceval; however it is later discovered to be Galahad. Galahad's conception is later glossed by Malory: \"And so by enchantment [Elaine] won the love of Lancelot, and certainly she loved him again passing well.” Galahad was conceived for the divine purpose of seeking the Holy Grail. But Galahad's conception happened through pure deceit; under a cloak of deception that was very similar, in fact, to that which led to the conception of Arthur and of Merlin himself. Despite this, Galahad is the knight who is chosen to find the Holy Grail. Galahad, in the \"Lancelot-Grail cycle\" and in Malory's retelling, is exalted above all the other knights; he is the one worthy enough to have the Holy Grail revealed to him and to be taken into heaven. \n\nIn Sir Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", Galahad's incredible prowess and fortune in the quest for the Holy Grail are traced back to his piety. According to the legend, only pure knights may achieve the Grail. While in a specific sense, this \"purity\" refers to chastity, Galahad appears to have lived a generally sinless life and so as a result, he lives and thinks on a level entirely apart from the other knights around him. This quality is reflected in Alfred Lord Tennyson's poem \"Sir Galahad\":\n\n<poem>My good blade carves the casques of men,\nMy tough lance thrusteth sure,\nMy strength is as the strength of ten,\nBecause my heart is pure.</poem>\n\nGalahad is able to conquer all of his enemies because he is pure. In the next verse of this poem, Tennyson continues to glorify Galahad for remaining pure at heart, by putting these words into his mouth:\n\n<poem>I never felt the kiss of love,\nNor maiden's hand in mine.</poem>\n\nSir Galahad pursues a single-minded and lonely course, sacrificing much in his determination to aspire to a higher ideal:\n\n<poem>Then move the trees, the copses nod,\nWings flutter, voices hover clear\n\"O just and faithful knight of God!\nRide on! the prize is near.\"</poem>\n\nTennyson's poem follows Galahad's journey to find the Holy Grail but ends while he is still riding, still seeking, still dreaming; as if to say that the quest for the Holy Grail is an ongoing task. Unlike many other portrayals of the legend of Sir Galahad, Tennyson has Sir Galahad speak in the first person, gives the reader his thoughts and feelings as he rides on his quest, rather than just the details of his battles, as in Malory.\n\nSir Galahad's thoughts and aspirations have been explored as well by William Morris in his poem \"Sir Galahad, a Christmas Mystery\", published in 1858. In this poem, written more than twenty years after Tennyson's \"Sir Galahad\", Galahad is \"fighting an internal battle between the ideal and the human,\" believing that he is like God and that he is able to be a \"saviour capable of imparting grace,\" following a dream in which he saves a dying knight with a kiss. Galahad isolates himself because he is a “self-centred figure\". Morris’ poem places this emotional conflict at centre stage, rather than concentrating upon Galahad’s prowess for defeating external enemies, and the cold and the frost of a Christmas period serve to reinforce his \"chilly isolation\". The poem opens on midwinter's night; Sir Galahad has been sitting for six hours in a chapel, staring at the floor. He muses to himself:\n\n<poem>Night after night your horse treads down alone\nThe sere damp fern, night after night you sit\nHolding the bridle like a man of stone,\nDismal, unfriended: what thing comes of it?</poem>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47505331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47505331", "title": "Gesellschaft der Freunde alter Musikinstrumente", "text": "Gesellschaft der Freunde alter Musikinstrumente\n\nThe (GEFAM) (\"Society of friends of old musical instruments\") was founded in 1951 in Zurich, Switzerland, by a number of music lovers and collectors of historical musical instruments. It is still the only society in the German speaking part of Europe (Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Lichtenstein) that is concerned mainly with old musical instruments. Thanks to its base in Switzerland it has a multicultural and multilanguage profile, visual in its international list of members. Today there are around 200 members (individuals and institutions), mainly in Europe, but also on other parts of the globe. The spectrum includes specialised museums and collections of old musical instruments, researchers and instrument makers as well as private collectors and enthusiasts.\n\nThe society is a forum in which public and private collections of musical instruments are visited and aspects of conservation are discussed, whereby the history of the musical instruments is given special consideration. Occasionally extra-European instruments are regarded as well. In addition to these aspects the society also contributes to discussions between museum \"specialists\", instrument makers, universities and conservatories on the one hand and private collectors and others interested in old musical instruments on the other.\n\nThe society publishes the biannual bulletin \"Glareana\" (eJournal) with society news and articles on subjects pertaining to instruments. It has also published several monographs.\n\n"}
{"id": "6127865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6127865", "title": "Grade retention", "text": "Grade retention\n\n“Grade retention” or “grade repetition” is the process of a kindergarten through twelfth grade student repeating the same grade due to failing it the previous year, these students are referred to as \"repeaters\". Repeaters can also be referred to as having been \"held back\". Students do not necessarily repeat in the same classroom, only the same grade.\n\nThe alternative to grade retention due to failing is a policy of social promotion, with the idea that staying within their same age group is important. Social promotion is the obligatory advancement of all students regardless of achievements and absences. Social promotion is used more in countries which use tracking to group students according to academic ability. Academic scholars believe that underperformance must be addressed with intensive remedial help, such as summer school programs in contrast to failing and retaining the student.\n\nIn most countries, grade retention has been banned or strongly discouraged. In the United States, grade retention can be used in kindergarten through twelfth grade, however, students in grades seven through twelve are usually only retained in the specific failed subject due to each subject having its own specific classroom rather than staying in one classroom with all subjects taught for the entire school day as it is in grades kindergarten through sixth grade. For example, in grades seven through twelve, a student can be promoted in a math class but retained in a language class. Single classroom grades kindergarten through sixth grade are confined to one room for the whole day, being taught all subjects in the same classroom usually by one teacher with the exception of art and gymnastics conducted in the art room and the gymnasium respectively. In these grades the student must generally fail or score well below the accepted level in most or all areas within the entire curriculum to be retained. The student will then again repeat the entire school year within a single classroom and repeating the same subject matter as the previous year.\n\nWhere it is permitted, grade retention is most common among students in early elementary school. Students with intellectual disabilities are only retained when parents and school officials agree to do so. Children who are relatively young in their age cohort are four times more likely to be retained.\n\nDifferent schools have used different approaches throughout history. Grade retention or repetition was essentially meaningless in the one-room schoolhouses of more than a century ago due to limited access to outside standards and the small scale of the school with only a few students in each age group, was conducive to individualized instruction. With the proliferation of larger, graded schools in the middle of the nineteenth century, retention became a common practice and only one century ago, about half of all American students were retained at least once before the age of thirteen.\n\nSocial promotion began to spread in the 1930s with concerns about the psychosocial effects of retention. Social promotion is the promoting of underperforming students under the ideological principle that staying with their same age peers is important to success. This trend reversed in the 1980s as concerns about slipping academic standards rose, and the practice of grade retention in the United States has been climbing steadily ever since. The practice of making retention decisions on the basis of the results of a single test called high-stakes testing is widely condemned by professional educators. Test authors generally advise that their tests are not adequate for high stakes decisions, and that decisions should be made based on all the facts and circumstances.\n\nThere is conclusive evidence that grade retention is significantly helpful, and much of the existing research has been methodologically invalid due to the selection bias in the group allocation phase. The three different types of studies that exist or have been proposed have inherent pitfalls to overcome before the resulting data can be deemed as accurate.\n\n'”Non-academic outcomes:”'\nRetention is commonly associated with poor social adjustment, disruptive behavior, negative attitudes towards school and low academic attendance.\" Retention is a \"stronger predictor of delinquency than socioeconomic status, race, or ethnicity,\" and is also a strong predictor of drug and alcohol use and teenage pregnancy.\n\nAustralia uses grade retention, although in 2010 the New South Wales Department of Education and Training enacted a policy that states that student retention will no longer be allowed at any school. For example, as of 2010, students will not be repeating eleventh grade or twelfth grade due to the abundance of post school services available to them after they complete twelfth grade, services such as TAFEs or college universities.\n\nIn New Zealand, secondary schools commonly use a system of internal academic streaming in which children of the same age are subdivided on the basis of ability, and lower achieving students (those who would be retained under the North American system) are taught in different classes, and at a different rate, from higher achieving students, but are kept within their own age group. This system has largely rendered grade retention obsolete in all but the most exceptional circumstances. \n\nIn most cases where academic streaming is insufficient, additional special services are viewed as being preferential to grade retention, particularly when behavioral challenges are involved.\n\nArgentina contemplates grade retention in all grades except first grade and the last course of high school. In Elementary school students are retained when they fail one of the basic areas: math, language and social sciences. In secondary school, students are allowed a maximum of two courses failed in order to be promoted. If they fail three or more, they should repeat.\n\nJapan, South Korea, Malaysia and North Korea do not practice grade retention.\n\nSingapore practices grade retention in secondary schools if a student is unsuccessful in achieving a satisfactory accumulated percentage grade. The school authorities may also decide that it would be more appropriate for the student to advance to a higher level in a lower stream such as in the cases of Express and Normal (Academic) students. Grade retention is most common in Junior Colleges where a promotional criteria is set in place. Hong Kong practices grade retention in elementary and secondary school if the student obtains a failing grade even after taking a retest, though grade retention is very rare.\n\nNorway, Denmark and Sweden do not allow grade retention during elementary school and junior high school (1-10th grade)\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a similar streaming system to New Zealand's is used (see above).\n\nGermany, Italy, Austria, Netherlands, France, Finland and Switzerland use grade retention.\n\nGreece allows grade retention if a student fails more than 5 final exams, or 5 or less both in May examinations and in September examination. A student who has missed more than 114 periods of class can also repeat a grade.\n\nThe United States and Canada both use grade retention.\n\nIn the U.S., six year old students are most likely to be retained, with another spike around the age of 12. In particular, some large schools have a transitional classroom, sometimes called \"Kindergarten 2\", for six year olds who are not reading ready.\n\nSchool officials in some US states have the authority to allow students to be held back if they do not attend summer school.\n\nThe following are common arguments regarding this practice.\n\nOpponents of \"no social promotion\" policies do not defend social promotion so much as say that retention is even worse. They argue that retention is not a cost effective response to poor performance when compared to cheaper or more effective interventions, such as additional tutoring and summer school. They point to a wide range of research findings that show no advantage to, or even harm from, retention, and the tendency for gains from retention to wash out.\n\nHarm from retention cited by these critics include:\n\nCritics of retention also note that retention is expensive for school systems: requiring a student to repeat a grade is essentially to add one student for a year to the school system, assuming that the student does not drop out.\n\nThe possibility of grade retention has been shown to be a significant source of stress for students. In one study of childhood fears performed in the 1980s, the top three fears for US sixth graders were a parent's death, going blind, and being retained. After two decades of increasing retention practices, a repeat of the study in 2001 found that grade retention was the single greatest fear, higher than loss of a parent or going blind. This change likely reflects the students correct perception that they were statistically far more likely to repeat the sixth grade than to suffer the death of a parent or the loss of their vision.\n\nOpponents of social promotion argue that passing a child who did not learn the necessary material cheats the child of an education. As a result, when the child gets older, the student will likely fail classes or be forced to attend summer school. Opponents of social promotion argue that some children would benefit from an additional year, especially in Kindergarten, to mature and develop social and emotional skills. This additional time will assist students with improved academic performance.\nOpponents of social promotion argue that it has the following negative impacts:\n\n"}
{"id": "4292601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4292601", "title": "Hollow Man 2", "text": "Hollow Man 2\n\nHollow Man 2 is a 2006 American science fiction horror film directed by Claudio Fäh and starring Peter Facinelli, Laura Regan and Christian Slater. It is the stand-alone sequel to the film \"Hollow Man\". It was released direct-to-video on May 23, 2006.\n\nThe movie opens at a cocktail party at the Reisner Institute, a Washington think tank, some time after the events of the first movie. An invisible force drags a scientist named Dylan into a nearby bathroom, where the force (implied to be a person) brutally throws Dylan around for information. Dylan mentions another scientist, Maggie Dalton, who knows the \"formula\" the invisible person is looking for. Apparently accepting this, the invisible person releases him, warning him not to tell anyone he was there. As soon as the invisible man leaves (or rather, pretends to leave), Dylan attempts to call someone on his cell phone, but the invisible man smashes the phone and slashes Dylan's throat. The police arrive at the laboratory to conduct a murder investigation, but the laboratory's military supervisor, Colonel Gavin Bishop, insists it is an internal military situation and the police have no jurisdiction. Fearing attacks on the remaining scientists, the lab's owner, Dr. William Reisner, employs Frank Turner and his partner, Detective Lisa Martinez, to protect Maggie, but refuses to divulge any information on the nature of his work.\n\nThe two detectives stand guard outside Maggie's house. When Lisa opens the door to let the cat in, the invisible man sneaks past her into the house. Just as he reaches the study where Maggie is, Lisa tracks him down, and he kills her with a lamp's power cord. Suddenly, armed military commandos appear and storm the house, using thermal goggles to target and corner the invisible man. Outside, Turner confronts Bishop, realizing that they used him and Lisa to lure the invisible man to the house. Several stun grenades go off around the house, incapacitating the soldiers and allowing the invisible man to escape in pursuit of Turner and Maggie. He almost catches up to them, but is struck and badly injured by a car, and flees.\n\nMaggie is taken into protective custody by the police, where Turner's superior and friend, Captain Tom Harrison, has received orders to have her transferred to military custody. Frank helps Maggie escape from the police station and they flee in a stolen car. Bishop and Reisner, knowing their careers would end if Maggie talks, declare them fugitives.\n\nMaggie later tells Turner that five years prior, a team of scientists figured out how to make humans invisible, but something went wrong, leaving only two survivors. A year after the original project was scrapped, the Reisner Institute restarted the experiments as a covertly Department of Defense-funded operation to create the perfect soldier, codenamed \"Silent Knight\", which attempts to render humans invisible. The resulting serum \"does\" turn human tissue invisible, but with adverse effects: as it allows light to pass directly through the subject, the radiation damages the cells and causes physical and mental degradation, slowly killing the person. Maggie developed a compound called the \"Buffer\" to counteract the effects of that particular radiation. A soldier named Michael Griffin volunteered, and the serum succeeded, but the Buffer failed and Griffin seemingly died, which in turn got Maggie fired. Maggie believes that Griffin faked his death so he could use his powers without restraint, but now needs the antidote to the radiation before he dies.\n\nMaggie receives a message from a man named Ludlow, who has been in contact with her for weeks. Turner uses his contacts to find Ludlow, a soldier enlisted into the program after Sebastian Caine (the original guinea pig), but before Griffin. He had gone into hiding, but is now slowly dying from radiation. Ludlow has also been tracking Griffin, and reveals the true story to his supposed \"death\" and the program itself: Operation Silent Knight was \"never\" about national security, and neither was Griffin given the Buffer, since they used him to assassinate their political enemies.\n\nMeanwhile, Griffin infiltrates Bishop's office and both get into a fight. The latter attempts to reason with him and then, getting desperate, stabs him with a pen (non-fatally). Griffin impales Bishop with the same pen, and uses his computer to locate Ludlow. Arriving at the hideout, Griffin attacks Turner, but Ludlow intervenes, sacrificing himself to allow Turner and Maggie to escape. Griffin decides to make them return by capturing Maggie's sister. When they meet at the train station where he is hiding, Griffin silently catches Maggie and tries to turn her invisible so he can take her unnoticed, but Turner intervenes. After a short fight, Griffin escapes with Maggie, leaving Turner with the arriving Reisner and his guards. A short time later, Reisner pursues an invisible man, but is soon captured and held by him. Believing him to be Griffin, he offers to send for the Buffer. The figure, however, is \"Turner\", who used Griffin's discarded syringe to become invisible as well. Reisner, backing away, is hit and killed by a speeding car.\n\nGriffin takes Maggie to her old college laboratory to create the Buffer for him. Griffin forces her to inject herself with it first, then injects himself with another dose. With his survival seemingly assured, Griffin tries to kill Maggie, but Turner intervenes and knocks him out of the laboratory window. Turner runs outside, where Griffin renders him unconscious. As Griffin slowly turns visible, Maggie reveals that he has been poisoned, as the vial contained rat poison; she loses consciousness. Enraged, Griffin takes a shovel and attempts to kill her, but Turner, having recovered, stops him and kills him with the shovel. He then carries Maggie away for medical attention, leaving Griffin's body outside in the rain.\n\nA few days later, Maggie is recovering in hospital and is poised to be released. Heather tells her that Turner has not been found. Maggie insists that he will come back to her, as she knows he needs her. Outside, they are being watched by a hooded invisible man, presumably Turner, who then walks away.\n\n\n\"Hollow Man 2\" is based on the very first draft of the Paul Verhoeven film.\n\nThe script includes a lot of references to the novel \"The Invisible Man\" by H. G. Wells, including the naming of Griffin, which is the same as Wells' invisible man. Also during the final battle between the two Hollow Men, Turner kills Griffin with a shovel, in H. G. Wells' \"The Invisible Man\", Griffin is beaten to death with objects also including a shovel.\n\nThere were only 250 visual effects shots in the whole film, and 80 of them were simply wire removals.\n\nThe film was released direct-to-video on May 23, 2006. Along with the film, the DVD also included the \"Inside Hollow Man 2\" featurette, a visual effects featurette and storyboards.\nIn 2013 Mill Creek Entertainment released the film for the first time on Blu-ray in a 2 pack set along with the original \"Hollow Man\"; all extras were dropped for the Blu-ray release.\n\n\"Hollow Man 2\", as a direct-to-video release, had lower expectations than its preceding film. Its reviews have been almost uniformly negative; some reviews at best indicate it as average. Rotten Tomatoes chronicles only a few reviews, all of which designate the film as \"rotten\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42853728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42853728", "title": "Howard Richards (academic)", "text": "Howard Richards (academic)\n\nHoward Richards (born June 10, 1938) is a philosopher of Social Science who works with the concepts of \"basic cultural structures\" and \"constitutive rules\". He holds the title of Research Professor of Philosophy at Earlham College, a liberal arts college in Richmond, Indiana, United States, the Quaker School where he taught for thirty years. He officially retired from Earlham College, together with his wife Caroline Higgins in 2007, but retained the title of Research Professor of Philosophy. He has a PhD in Philosophy from the University of California, Santa Barbara, a Juris Doctor (J.D.) from the Stanford Law School, an Advanced Certificate in Education (ACE) from Oxford University (UK) and a PhD in Educational Planning from the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE), University of Toronto, Canada. He now teaches at the University of Santiago, Chile, and has ongoing roles at the University of South Africa (UNISA) and the University of Cape Town's Graduate School of Business program. He is founder of the Peace and Global Studies Program and co-founder of the Business and Nonprofit Management Program at Earlham.\n\nHoward Richards was born in Pasadena. California, United States, the eldest child of Kenneth F. Richards, a truck mechanic, originally from Connecticut, and his wife Donna. It was his mother's intellectual interest in philosophers such as Henri Bergson which prompted the family to break its ties with mormonism. His paternal grandparents fell into unemployment in Connecticut during the Great Depression and moved to Pasadena in 1932. It was his uncle Jack from his mother's side, who died during World War II, and especially his mother who fostered his early intellectual interest.\n\nAfter graduating from Redlands High School, CA, in June 1956, Richards enrolled in the same year as a Philosophy undergraduate at Yale. Being a top student, he was allowed to skip one year of the normal three year Major in Philosophy course. Afterwards he was admitted to Stanford Law School in 1958, graduating with a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree in 1961. Later in that year he enrolled in graduate school at the University of California Santa Barbara, earning an M.A. in Philosophy there in 1964 with a thesis on Jean-Paul Sartre. Simultaneously he worked at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions think tank where he contributed several articles to the in-house Center Magazine. In 1965 he left for Chile, where they ultimately would settle in the town of Limache. Soon after their arrival, Howard took up the post of Dean of Studies at the Santiago College, (a college in Chile is a secondary school). While in Santiago, Howard joined the Chilean Ministry of Education as an advisor to President Eduardo Frei's Educational Reform, working on a Secondary Curriculum influenced by the ideas of the Brazilian Educator Paulo Freire In late 1970 Richards and his family left for the UK where Richards enrolled for an Advanced Certificate in Education (ACE) at Oxford University, simultaneously doing one on one tutorials and attending seminars by the philosophers Rom Harré and A. J. Ayer. He graduated with an honors thesis on Piaget. Back in Chile in 1972, now under president Salvador Allende, he continued to work with Freire's ideas at CIDE (Centro de Investigación y Desarrollo de la Educación - Educational Research and Development Center) where he founded the Parents and Children Program (Programa Padres e Hijos - PHH), a Community Development combined with a Parent Education program.\n\nRichards and his family left Chile in 1974, after Pinochet's 1973 coup d'état, but not before having helped friends and colleagues escape Pinochet's DINA police. The philosophy curriculum Richards had helped develop was repealed shortly after the coup, but was adopted in several other Latin American countries. In September 1974 Richards and his family returned to the USA where he started work at Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana. Later that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in Philosophy at the University of California Santa Barbara, having done the preparatory work when still in Chile. While based in Richmond, he attended the Lawrence Kohlberg Summer School on Moral Education at Harvard University. Richards became a professor at Earlham College and was the founding director of its Peace and Global Studies program until 1989 and part-time Director until 2004. Between 1981 and 1985, Richards combined commitments in Richmond with those at OISE, Toronto, with the occasional stay in Quebec where their daughters were studying at a French-speaking school, he enrolled in another PhD program in Education, with a first field in curriculum planning and a second field in applied psychology and moral education, at the University of Toronto's Institute for Studies in Education (UT/OISE), which he successfully completed with a doctoral thesis based on the Chilean PPH program. He also became an active contributor to the OISE-based active think-tank about the new economic paradigm known as The Transformative Learning Centre (TLC).\n\nAt Stanford Law School (1958–61) he co-founded the Stanford Political Union's Socialist Caucus, became involved in the Peace Movement and began volunteer work for farm labor causes. He co-founded, with Stanford radical books seller Roy Kepler, Ira Sandperl and others, the Peninsula Peace Center, effectively running it for a while. He was also editor and author of a modest journal called \"Utopian Papers\". After graduation from law school (1961), he joined the Santa Barbara, California Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions headed by Robert Hutchins to whom he became a personal assistant, and became the first volunteer attorney for Cesar Chavez' Farm Workers Association when he started organizing the FWA in Delano, California. He worked as evaluator of cultural change projects in Costa Rica, Ecuador, Bolivia and Chile He also did evaluative work on economic institutions (\"Economía Solidaria\") in Argentina. Economic theory and Community Development together with Public Employment Programs are his more recent research areas.\n\nHe is on the Advisory Board of Human Dignity and Humiliation Studies (HumanDHS), a global transdisciplinary fellowship of concerned academics and practitioners who wish to promote dignity and transcend humiliation. Richards' principal teaching experience stretches from 1974 to 2007 as Professor of Philosophy and Education on the Peace and Global Studies Program (PAGS) at Earlham College. When no longer at Earlham, he taught short courses in different international locations. Starting in 2009 he became a distinguished fellow of the South African Research Chairs Initiative in Development Education (SARChI) based at the University of South Africa (UNISA) Pretoria, and then a collaborator at the Johannesburg-based Seriti Institute with Dr. Gavin Andersson. In South Africa, too, he teaches in the Executive MBA Program at the University of Cape Town. He is also co-chair of the Chilean group Repensar Ia Economía (Re-thinking the Economy).\n\nRichards was the first volunteer attorney for Cesar Chavez's United Farm Workers of America, protecting the union's funds against grower lawsuits. In 1983 he became member of the American Bankruptcy Institute. In 1989 he started practicing law in Santa Barbara, joining the Legal Aid Foundation and specializing in bankruptcy, In 1990 he also was a voluntary attorney at the Los Angeles Free Clinic, a practice he wound up in 2004, when he moved back to Limache, Chile.\n\n\nRichards has also published fourteen other books some in English and some in Spanish, among the latter, Richards, 1987, \"Ética y Economía\" (Ethics and Economics), and González Meyer & Richards (2012)\n\"Hacia otras Economias. Critica al paradigma dominante\" (Towards other Economies - Critique of the dominant Paradigm). A list of Richards' other books, articles, conferences \nand speeches (e.g. Howard Richards, 1995 Nehru Lectures) can be found on HR Professor of Peace and Global Studies (up to 2010), HR Bibliography, HR website and the more recent Unbounded Organization webpage.\n\nRichards married Caroline Higgins in July 1965. They have two daughters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2499378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2499378", "title": "Human dartboard", "text": "Human dartboard\n\nThe human dartboard is a contemporary sideshow act in which one person throws darts at another person. Usually the thrower is the target's assistant or a member of the audience. This act was popularized by the Jim Rose Circus, where it was performed by Jim, in the role of the target, and his wife Bebe, who threw the darts. Usually darts are thrown into the back of the target, and the spine is protected by a board or other long object stuck into the waistband.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21719622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21719622", "title": "La Duquesa Sugar Mill", "text": "La Duquesa Sugar Mill\n\nLa Duquesa Sugar Mill, founded in 1882 by American machinist Alejandro Bass and F. Von Krosigh, is located in the Distrito Nacional (National District) of the Dominican Republic.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on April 5, 2002 in the Cultural category.\n\nNuestra Señora de Monte Alegre or la Duquesa Sugar Mill [Ruta de Los Ingenios] - UNESCO World Heritage Centre Accessed 2009-02-26.\n\nBetances, E (1995), \"State and Society in the Dominican Republic\", Westview Press. ISBN\n"}
{"id": "50016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50016", "title": "Lenny Bruce", "text": "Lenny Bruce\n\nLeonard Alfred Schneider (October 13, 1925 – August 3, 1966), better known by his stage name Lenny Bruce, was an American stand-up comedian, social critic, and satirist. He was renowned for his open, free-style and critical form of comedy which integrated satire, politics, religion, sex, and vulgarity. His 1964 conviction in an obscenity trial was followed by a posthumous pardon, the first in the history of New York state, by then-Governor George Pataki in 2003.\n\nBruce is renowned for paving the way for future outspoken counterculture-era comedians, and his trial for obscenity is seen as a landmark for freedom of speech in the United States. In 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine ranked him third (behind disciples Richard Pryor and George Carlin) on its list of the 50 best stand-up comics of all time.\n\nLenny Bruce was born Leonard Alfred Schneider to a Jewish family in Mineola, New York, grew up in nearby Bellmore, and attended Wellington C. Mepham High School. His parents divorced before he turned 10 years old, and Lenny lived with various relatives over the next decade. His British-born father, Myron (Mickey) Schneider, was a shoe clerk and Lenny saw him very infrequently. Bruce's mother, Sally Marr (legal name Sadie Schneider, born Sadie Kitchenberg), was a stage performer and had an enormous influence on Bruce's career.\n\nAfter spending time working on a farm, Bruce joined the United States Navy at the age of 16 in 1942, and saw active duty during World War II aboard the fighting in Northern Africa; Palermo, Italy, in 1943; and Anzio, Italy, in 1944. In May 1945, after a comedic performance for his shipmates in which he was dressed in drag, his commanding officers became upset. He defiantly convinced his ship's medical officer that he was experiencing homosexual urges. This led to his undesirable discharge in July 1945. However, he had not admitted to or been found guilty of any breach of naval regulations and successfully applied to have his discharge changed to \"Under Honorable Conditions ... by reason of unsuitability for the naval service\". In 1959, while taping the first episode of Hugh Hefner's \"Playboy's Penthouse\", Bruce talked about his Navy experience and showed a tattoo he received in Malta in 1942.\n\nAfter a short stint in California spent living with his father, Bruce settled in New York City, hoping to establish himself as a comedian. However, he found it difficult to differentiate himself from the thousands of other show business hopefuls who populated the city. One locale where they congregated was Hanson's, the diner where Bruce first met the comedian Joe Ancis, who had a profound influence on his approach to comedy. Many of Bruce's later routines reflected his meticulous schooling at the hands of Ancis. According to Bruce's biographer Albert Goldman, Ancis's humor involved stream-of-consciousness sexual fantasies and references to jazz.\n\nLenny took the stage as \"Lenny Marsalle\" one evening at the Victory Club, as a stand-in master of ceremonies for one of his mother's shows. His ad-libs earned him some laughs. Soon afterward, in 1947, just after changing his last name to Bruce, he earned $12 and a free spaghetti dinner for his first stand-up performance in Brooklyn. He was later a guest—and was introduced by his mother, who called herself \"Sally Bruce\"—on the \"Arthur Godfrey's Talent Scouts\" radio program. Lenny did a bit inspired by Sid Caesar, \"The Bavarian Mimic\", featuring impressions of American movie stars (e.g., Humphrey Bogart, James Cagney, and Edward G. Robinson).\n\nBruce's early comedy career included writing the screenplays for \"Dance Hall Racket\" in 1953, which featured Bruce, his wife Honey Harlow, and mother Sally Marr in roles; \"Dream Follies\" in 1954, a low-budget burlesque romp; and a children's film, \"The Rocket Man\", in 1954. In 1956 Frank Ray Perilli, a fellow nightclub comedian who eventually became a screenwriter of two dozen successful films and plays, became a mentor and part-time manager of Lenny Bruce. Through Perilli, Bruce met and collaborated with photojournalist William Karl Thomas on three screenplays (\"Leather Jacket\", \"Killer's Grave\" and \"The Degenerate\"), none of which made it to the screen, and the comedy material on the first three albums. Bruce was a roommate of Buddy Hackett in the 1950s, they appeared on the \"Patrice Munsel Show\" (1957–1958), calling their comedy duo the \"Not Ready for Prime Time Players,\" 20 years before the cast of \"Saturday Night Live\" used the same name. In 1957 Thomas booked Bruce into The Slate Brothers nightclub, where Bruce was fired the first night for what \"Variety\" headlined as \"blue material\"; this led to the theme of Bruce's first solo album on Fantasy Records, \"The Sick Humor of Lenny Bruce\", for which Thomas shot the album cover. Thomas also shot other album covers, acted as cinematographer on abortive attempts to film their screenplays, and in 1989 authored a memoir of their ten-year collaboration titled \"Lenny Bruce: The Making of a Prophet\". The 2016 biography of Frank Ray Perilli titled \"The Candy Butcher\", devotes a chapter to Perilli's ten-year collaboration with Bruce.\n\nBruce released a total of four albums of original material on Berkeley-based Fantasy Records, with rants, comic routines, and satirical interviews on the themes that made him famous: jazz, moral philosophy, politics, patriotism, religion, law, race, abortion, drugs, the Ku Klux Klan, and Jewishness. These albums were later compiled and re-released as \"The Lenny Bruce Originals\". Two later records were produced and sold by Bruce himself, including a 10-inch album of the 1961 San Francisco performances that started his legal troubles. Starting in the late 1950s, other unissued Bruce material was released by Alan Douglas, Frank Zappa and Phil Spector, as well as Fantasy. Bruce developed the complexity and tone of his material in Enrico Banducci's North Beach nightclub, the \"hungry i\", where Mort Sahl had earlier made a name for himself.\n\nBranded a \"sick comic\"—though it was the perceived \"sickness\" of modern society that he was railing about—Bruce was essentially blacklisted from television, and when he did appear thanks to sympathetic fans like Steve Allen or Hugh Hefner, it was with great concessions to Broadcast Standards and Practices. Jokes that might offend, like a bit on airplane glue-sniffing teenagers that was done live for \"The Steve Allen Show\" in 1959, had to be typed out and pre-approved by network officials.\n\nHis growing fame led to appearances on the nationally televised \"Steve Allen Show\", where he made his debut with an unscripted comment on the recent marriage of Elizabeth Taylor to Eddie Fisher, wondering, \"will Elizabeth Taylor become bar mitzvahed?\" \nOn February 3, 1961, in the midst of a severe blizzard, he gave a famous performance at Carnegie Hall in New York. It was recorded and later released as a three-disc set, titled \"The Carnegie Hall Concert\". In the liner notes, Albert Goldman described it as follows:\n\nIn 1951, Bruce met Honey Harlow, a stripper from Manila, Arkansas. They were married that same year, and Bruce was determined she end her work as a stripper.\n\nBruce and Harlow eventually left New York City in 1953 for the West Coast, where they got work as a double act at the Cup and Saucer in Los Angeles, California. Bruce then went on to join the bill at the club Strip City. Harlow found employment at the Colony Club, which was widely known to be the best burlesque club in Los Angeles at the time.\n\nBruce left Strip City in late 1954 and found work within the San Fernando Valley at a variety of strip clubs. As the master of ceremonies, he introduced the strippers while performing his own ever-evolving material. The clubs of the Valley provided the perfect environment for Bruce to create new routines: According to Bruce's primary biographer, Albert Goldman, it was \"precisely at the moment when he sank to the bottom of the barrel and started working the places that were the lowest of the low\" that he suddenly broke free of \"all the restraints and inhibitions and disabilities that formerly had kept him just mediocre and began to blow with a spontaneous freedom and resourcefulness that resembled the style and inspiration of his new friends and admirers, the jazz musicians of the modernist school.\"\n\nHoney and Lenny's daughter Kitty Bruce was born in 1955. He had an affair with the jazz singer Annie Ross in the late 1950s. In 1959, Lenny's divorce from Honey was finalized.\n\nBruce's desire to end his wife's stripper days led him to pursue schemes that were designed to make as much money as possible. The most notable was the Brother Mathias Foundation scam, which resulted in Bruce's arrest in Miami, Florida in 1951 for impersonating a priest. He had been soliciting donations for a leper colony in British Guiana (now Guyana) under the auspices of the \"Brother Mathias Foundation\", which he had legally chartered—the name was his own invention, but possibly referred to the actual Brother Matthias who had befriended Babe Ruth at the Baltimore orphanage to which Ruth had been confined as a child.\n\nBruce had stolen several priests' clergy shirts and a clerical collar while posing as a laundry man. He was found not guilty because of the legality of the New York state-chartered foundation, the actual existence of the Guiana leper colony, and the inability of the local clergy to expose him as an impostor. Later, in his semifictional autobiography \"How to Talk Dirty and Influence People\", Bruce said that he had made about $8,000 in three weeks, sending $2,500 to the leper colony and keeping the rest.\n\nOn October 4, 1961, Bruce was arrested for obscenity at the Jazz Workshop in San Francisco; he had used the word \"cocksucker\" and riffed that \"\"to\" is a preposition, \"come\" is a verb\", that the sexual context of \"come\" is so common that it bears no weight, and that if someone hearing it becomes upset, he \"probably can't come\". Although the jury acquitted him, other law enforcement agencies began monitoring his appearances, resulting in frequent arrests under charges of obscenity.\n\nBruce was arrested again in 1961, in Philadelphia, for drug possession and again in Los Angeles, two years later. The Los Angeles arrest took place in then-unincorporated West Hollywood, and the arresting officer was a young deputy named Sherman Block, who later became County Sheriff. The specification this time was that the comedian had used the word \"schmuck\", an insulting Yiddish term that is an obscene term for penis. The Hollywood charges were later dismissed.\n\nOn December 5, 1962, Bruce was arrested on stage at the legendary Gate of Horn folk club in Chicago. The same year he played at Peter Cook's The Establishment club in London, and in April the next year he was barred from entering England by the Home Office as an \"undesirable alien\".\n\nIn April 1964, he appeared twice at the Cafe Au Go Go in Greenwich Village, with undercover police detectives in the audience. He was arrested along with the club owners, Howard and Elly Solomon, who were arrested for allowing an obscene performance to take place. On both occasions, he was arrested after leaving the stage, the complaints again pertaining to his use of various obscenities.\n\nA three-judge panel presided over his widely publicized six-month trial, prosecuted by Manhattan Assistant D.A. Richard Kuh, with Ephraim London and Martin Garbus as the defense attorneys. Bruce and club owner Howard Solomon were both found guilty of obscenity on November 4, 1964. The conviction was announced despite positive testimony and petitions of support from—among other artists, writers and educators—Woody Allen, Bob Dylan, Jules Feiffer, Allen Ginsberg, Norman Mailer, William Styron, and James Baldwin, and Manhattan journalist and television personality Dorothy Kilgallen and sociologist Herbert Gans. Bruce was sentenced on December 21, 1964 to four months in a workhouse; he was set free on bail during the appeals process and died before the appeal was decided. Solomon later saw his conviction overturned; Bruce, who died before the decision, never had his conviction stricken. Bruce later received a full posthumous gubernatorial pardon.\n\nDespite his prominence as a comedian, Bruce appeared on network television only six times in his life. In his later club performances, Bruce was known for relating the details of his encounters with the police directly in his comedy routine. These performances often included rants about his court battles over obscenity charges, tirades against fascism and complaints that he was being denied his right to freedom of speech.\n\nBruce was banned outright from several U.S. cities, and in September 1962, his only visit to Australia caused a media storm—although, contrary to popular belief, he was not banned, nor was he forced to leave the country. Bruce was booked for a two-week engagement at Aaron's Exchange Hotel, a small pub in central Sydney by the American-born, Australian-based promoter Lee Gordon, who was by then deeply in debt, nearing the end of his formerly successful career, and desperate to save his business.\n\nBruce's first show at 9 p.m. on September 6 was uneventful, but his second show at 11 p.m. led to a major public controversy. Bruce was heckled by audience members during his performance, and when local actress, Barbara Wyndon, stood up and complained that Bruce was only talking about America, and asked him to talk about something different, a clearly annoyed Bruce responded, \"Fuck you, madam. That's different, isn't it?\" His remark shocked some members of the audience and several walked out. By the next day the local press had blown the incident up into a major controversy, with several Sydney papers denouncing Bruce as \"sick\" and one even illustrating their story with a retouched photograph appearing to show Bruce giving a fascist salute. The venue owners immediately cancelled the rest of Bruce's performances, and he retreated to his Kings Cross hotel room. Local university students (including future \"OZ\" magazine editor Richard Neville) who were fans of Bruce's humour tried to arrange a performance at the Roundhouse at the University of New South Wales, but at the last minute the university's Vice-Chancellor rescinded permission to use the venue, with no reason given. and an interview he was scheduled to give on Australian television was cancelled in advance by the Australian Broadcasting Commission.\n\nBruce remained largely confined to his hotel, but eight days later Bruce gave his third and last Australian concert at the Wintergarden Theatre in Sydney's eastern suburbs. Although the theatre had a capacity of 2,100, only 200 people attended, including a strong police presence, and in the event Bruce gave what was described as a \"subdued\" performance. It was long rumoured that a recording of Bruce's historic performance was made by police, but it was, in fact, recorded by a local jazz saxophonist, Sid Powell, who brought a portable tape recorder to the show. The tape was rediscovered in 2011 in the possession of Australian singer Sammy Gaha, who had acted as Bruce's chauffeur during his visit, and it was subsequently donated to the Lenny Bruce audio collection at Brandeis University. Bruce left the country a few days later and spoke little about the experience afterwards.\n\nIncreasing drug use also affected his health. By 1966, he had been blacklisted by nearly every nightclub in the United States, as owners feared prosecution for obscenity. Bruce gave a famous performance at the Berkeley Community Theatre in December 1965. It was recorded and became his last live album, titled \"The Berkeley Concert\"; his performance here has been described as lucid, clear and calm, and one of his best. His last performance took place on June 25, 1966, at The Fillmore Auditorium in San Francisco, on a bill with Frank Zappa and The Mothers of Invention. The performance was not remembered fondly by Bill Graham, whose memoir describes Bruce as \"whacked out on amphetamine\"; Graham thought that Bruce finished his set emotionally disturbed. Zappa asked Bruce to sign his draft card, but the suspicious Bruce refused.\n\nAt the request of Hugh Hefner and with the aid of Paul Krassner, Bruce wrote an autobiography. Serialized in \"Playboy\" in 1964 and 1965, this material was later published as the book \"How to Talk Dirty and Influence People\". Hefner had long assisted Bruce's career, featuring him in the television debut of \"Playboy's Penthouse\" in October 1959.\n\nDuring this time, Bruce also contributed a number of articles to Paul Krassner's satirical magazine \"The Realist\".\n\nOn August 3, 1966, a bearded Lenny Bruce was found dead in the bathroom of his Hollywood Hills home at 8825 W. Hollywood Blvd. The official photo, taken at the scene, showed Bruce lying naked on the floor, a syringe and burned bottle cap nearby, along with various other narcotics paraphernalia. Record producer Phil Spector, a friend of Bruce, bought the negatives of the photographs \"to keep them from the press.\" The official cause of death was \"acute morphine poisoning caused by an overdose.\"\n\nHis remains were interred in Eden Memorial Park Cemetery in Mission Hills, California, but an unconventional memorial on August 21 was controversial enough to keep his name in the spotlight. The service saw over 500 people pay their respects, led by Spector. Cemetery officials had tried to block the ceremony after advertisements for the event encouraged attendees to bring box lunches and noisemakers. Dick Schaap eulogized Bruce in \"Playboy\", with the memorable last line: \"One last four-letter word for Lenny: Dead. At forty. \"That's\" obscene.\"\n\nHis epitaph reads: \"Beloved father – devoted son/Peace at last.\"\n\nBruce has one daughter.\n\nAt the time of his death, his girlfriend was comedian Lotus Weinstock.\n\nOn December 23, 2003, thirty-seven years after Bruce's death, New York Governor George Pataki granted him a posthumous pardon for his obscenity conviction. \n\nBruce was the subject of the 1974 biographical film \"Lenny\", directed by Bob Fosse and starring Dustin Hoffman (in an Academy Award-nominated Best Actor role), and based on the Broadway stage play of the same name written by Julian Barry and starring Cliff Gorman in his 1972 Tony Award-winning role. In addition, the main character's editing of a fictionalized film version of \"Lenny\" was a major part of Fosse's own biopic, the 1979 Academy Award-nominated \"All That Jazz.\n\nThe documentary \"Lenny Bruce: Swear to Tell the Truth\", directed by Robert B. Weide and narrated by Robert De Niro, was released in 1998. It was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature\n\nIn 2004, Comedy Central listed Bruce at number three on its list of the 100 greatest stand-ups of all time, placing above Woody Allen (4th) and below Richard Pryor (1st) and George Carlin (2nd). Both comedians who ranked higher than Bruce considered him a major influence; Pryor said that hearing Bruce for the first time \"changed my life,\" while Carlin was arrested along with Bruce after refusing to provide identification when police raided a Bruce performance.\n\n\n\nBy others:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30962394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30962394", "title": "Libya, Libya, Libya", "text": "Libya, Libya, Libya\n\n\"Libya, Libya, Libya\" ( \"Lībiyā, Lībiyā, Lībiyā\"), also known as \"Ya Beladi\", \"O my country!\", is the national anthem of Libya, and was previously the national anthem of the Kingdom of Libya, from 1951 to 1969. It was composed by Mohammed Abdel Wahab, in 1951, with the lyrics themselves being written by Al Bashir Al Arebi. The Anthem is also used as the theme song for a Belgium television show named \"FC De kampioenen\"\n\n\"Libya, Libya, Libya\" was composed by Mohammed Abdel Wahab in 1951 and was originally the national anthem of the Kingdom of Libya, from its independence in 1951 until 1969 when King Idris I was overthrown by a bloodless coup d'état led by Muammar Gaddafi. The lyrics themselves were written by Al Bashir Al Arebi.\n\nIn 1969, Muammar Gaddafi adopted the Egyptian military marching song \"Allahu Akbar\" as the national anthem of the newly proclaimed Libyan Arab Republic, and later, the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.\n\nIn 2011, \"Libya, Libya, Libya\" was declared as the new national anthem of Libya by the National Transitional Council. \"Libya, Libya, Libya\" ultimately did become the national anthem of Libya once again, following the Libyan Civil War and the death of Muammar Gaddafi. The Anthem now does not contain the verse that glorifies King Idris (shown in italics).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3435093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3435093", "title": "Line sheet", "text": "Line sheet\n\nA line sheet is a sheet used by a manufacturer in the garment/fashion industry providing information on a product for wholesale sales. It allows a garment to be listed with the sizes in its size range, great for inventory tracking. It typically includes a line drawing or photograph of the product (possibly computer generated), its identification or SKU number, the style, and perhaps a swatch showing color and fabric. In lieu of swatches industry color standards such as Pantone numbers may be used. Price, minimum order amounts, order cutoff dates, contact and delivery information are also included. In the Internet era, these paper copies are being replaced by online resources like Joor and iVendix.\n"}
{"id": "20014257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20014257", "title": "List of Charvet customers", "text": "List of Charvet customers\n\nCharvet Place Vendôme or simply Charvet is a French high-end bespoke and ready-to-wear shirtmaker, located at 28 Place Vendôme in Paris.\nIts list of customers is notable for its time span, Charvet existing since 1838 and having been the first shirt store ever, and as a paradigm of an international \"aristo-dandy crossover community\". In the 19th century, the shirtmaker both specialized in \"royal haberdashery\" and attracted the patronage of artists. In the 20th century, with the development of fashion design, designers and fashion journalists became a significant customer group. Some other customers' interest in the brand has become a notable aspect of their personality. In keeping with a tradition of discretion of French Couture houses, the company declines to comment on its customers list, as a service to its customers.\n"}
{"id": "36638936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36638936", "title": "Mahoor Scores by Mokhber-Al-Saltaneh", "text": "Mahoor Scores by Mokhber-Al-Saltaneh\n\nMahoor Scores By Mokhber-Al-Saltaneh is a book by Saman Pourisa about an old notation of Persian Music. It was published in 2011 by Iranian Academy of Arts. The title of the book is inspired of the name of the original writer of the notation Mehdi Qoli Hedayat (Mokhber-Al-Saltaneh). It consists of 5 chapters, and was nominated for the Winter 2012 Iran’s season National Book award.\n\nPersian (Iranian) music had been merely handed down orally from one generation to the other, and Abjad system of notation was only been used in musical theories, not for the practical use. \nModern staff notation entered to Iran about 1850AD. After that, some of Iranian musicians efforted to write the radif of Persian music using this method. \nAmong those musicians, two of them managed to write a comprehensive notation. The first one was Alinaghi Vaziri, but his recordings have been lost. \nThe second one which is actually the first preserved comprehensive notation of the radif has been written by Mehdi Qoli Hedayat known as Mokhber-Al-Saltaneh.\n\n"}
{"id": "54985401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54985401", "title": "Mga Kababayang Dalaga ng Malolos", "text": "Mga Kababayang Dalaga ng Malolos\n\nMga Kababayang Dalaga ng Malolos (English Translation: \"To the Young Women of Malolos\") is a letter written by José Rizal for the young women of Malolos in 1889. The letter was addressed in the time of political outrage caused by the twenty women who petitioned for a night school to study the Spanish language and be at par with men. \n"}
{"id": "43197471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43197471", "title": "Modulations: A History of Electronic Music", "text": "Modulations: A History of Electronic Music\n\nModulations: A History of Electronic Music: Throbbing Words on Sound is a 2000 book edited by Peter Shapiro. It is a companion piece to the documentary film .\n\nThe book features Rob Young on the pioneers of electronic music, Simon Reynolds on krautrock, Peter Shapiro on disco & post-punk, Kodwo Eshun on house music, David Toop on hip hop, Mike Rubin on techno music, Chris Sharp on Drum and bass jungle, Tony Marcus on ambient music, Kurt Reighley on downtempo, and Michael Berk on the technology of electronic music.\n"}
{"id": "336801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336801", "title": "Molly house", "text": "Molly house\n\nMolly-house was a term used in 18th- and 19th-century England for a meeting place for homosexual men. These meeting places were generally taverns, public houses, coffeehouses or even private rooms where men could either socialize or meet possible sexual partners.\n\nEven if these clubs tended to display a heavy sexual connotation, some critics are reluctant to classify them as brothels. \nRictor Norton, for example, argues that the regular customers could have been in fact mutual friends, at least at the beginning, since consistent evidence concerning male prostitution seems to be insufficient until the 1780s. \nAt that time homosexual sexual activities were illegal and were heavily prosecuted; they remained capital offences until 1861. In this context, particularly during the 1720s, molly-houses came to be the scenes of raids and arrests, and their customers the ideal target for blackmailers.\n\nMolly-houses can be considered a precursor to some types of contemporary meeting places for the gay community.\n\nThe word \"molly\" (also spelt as \"molley\", \"mollie\", \"mally\") is a pet-form of the female forename Mary, and had two main connotations in 18th century English. The first one is close to the word moll, designating a lower-class girl or woman, occasionally a prostitute. The second one is classified as slang, defining an effeminate, usually homosexual, male. Along with the possible perception of intrinsic female features deriving from the association with the name Mary, another possible origin of this denomination for a homosexual man could be found in the Latin form \"mollis\", indicating the supposed passive-effeminate partner in male homosexual relationships.\nIn a 1762 Swedish/English dictionary by Jacob Serenius and in a 1767 French/English dictionary by Thomas Nugent the word was present, but simply defined a sodomite, without effeminate connotations.\n\nOther uses of the word can be seen in the verb \"to molly\" (to have a homosexual intercourse), in the expressions \"mollycot\" (a British regional expression indicating man interested in activities traditionally associated with women) and \"Miss Molly\" (referring to an effeminate or homosexual male).\n\nAccording to several critics, the English society of the time was giving an increasing importance to the concepts of family and household as fundamental units for reproduction, subsistence and interaction between generations: in this context, male and female roles evolved into more static forms. Men were associated with an active, assertive role both in sexual behaviour and in managing the household, while women were \"defined in terms of their maternal functions,\" contrarily to a tradition common at the start of the century, attributing them features related to lustfulness and aggressiveness in sexual matters. It is possible to see that the notion of \"molly-house\" seems to be deeply rooted in the developing of a distinctive identity according to gender and sexual orientation, a peculiar social phenomenon considered crucial by some critics in gender studies. As stated by Robert Shoemaker,\"... any activity (such as homosexual intercourse), in which [men] could be seen as acting passively was further marginalised.\"\n\nIn fact, some of the activities popular among the homosexual community, that were seemingly taking place in molly-houses (by nature, marginalised meeting places), were often associated both to female roles and to a family environment (i.e. cross-dressing, \"marriage\" and \"mock birth\" rituals, as described in a satire work of the time, Edward Ward's \"Satyrical Reflections on Clubs, Chapter XXV Of the Mollies Club\").\n\nAs sodomy was a capital offense, the organisation of homosexual men and their activities had to be a crucial point, in order to keep the community as safe as possible from prosecution. As a consequence, molly districts seemed to appear, and eventually grow, in areas in which their business could be acknowledged and tolerated at the same time: such connivance could be often found in areas with a high rate of criminal acts such as theft and prostitution.\n\nAn editorial in \"The London Journal\" singled out a number of areas: \nThe presence of pillories punishing sodomitical offenses, ironically, identified the sites where such acts frequently took place. Pillories were often organised near the crime locations attributed to the accused.\n\nMolly-houses could be considered the most organised phenomenon of London 18th century homosexual subculture. They were enclosed, private spaces gathering individuals with a common purpose, that is to say, socializing and seeking pleasure with partners of the same sex.\n\nBefore 1533, the \"unnatural sin\" (also defined \"detestable crime\" in trial records) of sodomy or \"buggery\", (a specific common law offence, meaning anal intercourse between a man and another man or woman, or anal or vaginal intercourse with a beast – in this way encompassing both sodomy and bestiality) was dealt with by the ecclesiastical courts. From that year however, the country's first civil sodomy law was introduced as \"An Acte for the punishment of the vice of Buggerie\" (Buggery Act 1533), and also criminal courts could prosecute individuals accused of such \"crime\". According to the Old Bailey Online Proceedings site:In order to obtain a conviction, it was necessary to prove that both penetration and ejaculation had occurred, and two witnesses were required to prove the crime. Both the \"active\" and \"passive\" partner could be found guilty of this offence. But due to the difficulty of proving this actual penetration and ejaculation many men were prosecuted with the reduced charge of assault with sodomitical intent.From the late 1690s to the early 1710s, the Societies for the Reformation of Manners (organizations born after the Revolution in 1688, seeking to eliminate immorality and disrespect for religion from public life) actively pursued prostitutes, Sabbath breakers and also homosexual men, through the means of spies and \"provocateurs\" to dismantle molly houses and prosecute individuals. In the 1720s and 30s thief-takers like Charles Hitchen and Jonathan Wild stimulated the Societies' activities. The peak of this wave of prosecution is to be recognized in the late 1720s with a raid on the most famous molly house, Mother Clap's. According to Rictor Norton:\n\nMolly-houses at that time were evidently and intrinsically related to since they gathered sodomites being a capital offence, so most of the information concerning molly-houses and the community around them is available through an indirect form, that is, mostly through newspaper reports and the accounts given during the Old Bailey trials relating to sexual offences, such as \"sodomy, assault with sodomitical intent\" and \"keeping a brothel\", or sometimes the ones related to theft cases (for example, in cases with men caught stealing during a sexual encounter).\n\nOther important sources are satires and pamphlets, such as \"An Answer To A Late Insolent Libel\" by Jonathan Wild, Edward Ward's \"Satyrical Reflections on Clubs\", Chapter XXV \"Of the Mollies Club\", John Dunton's \"The He-Strumpets. A Satyr on the Sodomite-Club\", James Dalton's \"A Genuine Narrative of all the Street Robberies Committed since October last\" and as well as other works.\n\nLater in the eighteenth century, waves of prosecutions can be identified in the 1750s and 1770s. However most of the details concerning sexual offences trials came to be more and more rare due to an increasing need of a strait-laced morality, but fraud and extortion cases seemed to continue in giving \"retail at length detailed accounts of alleged sexual encounters between men\".\n\nThe adoption of specific codes and rituals in relating to each other seemed to be another feature allowing cohesion in the group. These peculiarities were often described in trials and libels, often to be put on public display and disapproval. Some of the uses seemed to be:\nthe \"Marshal\" was complimented by the Company with the Titles of \"Madam\" and \"Ladyship\".From James Dalton's \"A Genuine Narrative of all the Street Robberies Committed since October last\":Their chief Names are as follows. \"Ellinor Roden\", \"China Mary\", \"Flying Horse Moll\", \"Smal Coal Mary\", J\"ohannah the Ox-cheek Woman, Tub Nan,' Sukey Pisquill, Garter Mary, Hardward Nan, Prety Criss\", a Soldier of the 2d Regiment, \"Aunt England\", a noted Soap Boyler, \"Pomegranate Molly, Orange Mary\", an Orange Merchant near London-Bridge\",'Old Fish Hannah,'Kate Hutton\" an old Man that never wears a Shirt, \"Thumbs and Waste Jenny, Queen Irons\", alias \"Pippin Mary\", \"Hanover Kate\", spouse to Pippin Mary\",Miss Kitten (Oviat), Rose Gudger, 'Black Moll, &c\".They could take on a female persona, have a female name, and affect feminine mannerisms and speech. Again from Jonathan Wild:The men calling one another \"my Dear\", and hugging, kissing, and tickling each other, as if they were a Mixture of wanton Males and Females, and assuming effeminate Voices and Airs\n\nThe most known molly-house in 18th century London was the one owned by Mother Clap, which had been open from 1724 until 1726, when a raid sustained by the Societies for the Reformation of Manners had it dismantled. It was located in Field Lane, near to another tavern \"The Bunch of Grapes\" in Holborn, a suburban parish of Middlesex a short distance from the City of London. This area came to be renowned as a rookery in the next decades, and described as \"a sort of distinct town, or district calculated for the reception of the darkest and most dangerous enemies to society; in which when pursued for the commission of crimes they easily conceal themselves and readily escape\". A literary example can be interpreted as a sort of confirmation of the reputation of this lane, since Charles Dickens placed here Fagin's den, an old Jewish man earning a living as a fence, in his 1837 novel \"Oliver Twist\". This peculiar homosexual meeting place, however, became well known to the public during the 1720s through the trial of its keeper, Margaret Clap, indicted for keeping a disorderly house and for encouraging her customers to commit sodomy; and, particularly, through the account given by an agent provocateur, Samuel Stevens.\n\nOn Sunday Night the 14th of November. I went to the Prisoners House in Field-Lane, Holbourn. I found near Men Fifty there, making Love to one another as they call'd it. Sometimes they'd sit in one anothers Laps, use their Hands indecently Dance and make Curtsies and mimick the Language of Women - O Sir! - Pray Sir! - Dear Sir! Lord how can ye serve me so! - Ah ye little dear Toad! Then they'd go by Couples, into a Room on the same Floor to be marry'd as they call'd it. The Door at that Room was kept by - Ecclestone to prevent any body from balking their Diversions.\n\nShe and half a dozen of her customers were also put into the pillory, fined, and imprisoned for periods of up to two years. Three of her customers were hanged for sodomy: Gabriel Lawrence, a 43-year-old milkman; William Griffin, a 43 year old furniture upholsterer; and Thomas Wright, who was a molly house keeper.\n\nIn the eighteenth century according to the Old Bailey Proceedings, only two individuals were formally arrested for keeping a molly-house: Margaret Clap and Julius Cesar Taylor but several accused of sodomitical practices seems to be reported as brothel keepers as well (i.e. Thomas Wright).\n\nOn 9 May 1726, three men (Gabriel Lawrence, William Griffin, and Thomas Wright) were hanged at Tyburn for buggery following a raid of Margaret Clap's molly-house. Their trials are fundamental since they provide important details for the descriptions of the gay community surroundings. On 12 April 1727 Charles Hitchin was convicted of assault with sodomitical intent .\n\nReferences and representations of molly-houses and gay subculture during the 18th and the 19th century London can be found in several contemporary productions.\n\nTV series\n\nTheatre\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9390995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9390995", "title": "National Dance Week", "text": "National Dance Week\n\nNational Dance Week (NDW) is an annual event in the United States sponsored by the United Dance Merchants of America to increase public awareness and appreciation of various forms of dance. The event is coordinated by an organization under the same name headquartered in Pittsburgh, PA which operates under the sponsorship of the UDMA and currently seeks for the 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization status\n\nThe Coalition for National Dance Week was formed in 1981 by a group of dance related organizations to bring greater recognition to dance as an art form. Since 1991 the NDW is sponsored by the UDMA.\n\nNDW volunteers host more than a thousand events nationwide during the observation.\n\nDance Week 2009 was from April 24-May 3, 2009.\n\nNational Dance Week 2007 was from April 20 through the 29th. Activities scheduled for 2007 included community dance performances, free classes, an essay contest, and an attempt to break the Guinness World Record for the \"Largest Ballet Class \"a la barre\"\" sponsored by the Oregon Ballet Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85818", "title": "Nibelungenlied", "text": "Nibelungenlied\n\nThe Nibelungenlied (Middle High German: Der Nibelunge liet or Der Nibelunge nôt), translated as The Song of the Nibelungs, is an epic poem from around 1200 written in Middle High German. Its anonymous poet was likely from the region of Passau. The \"Nibelungenlied\" is based on an oral tradition that has some of its origin in historic events and individuals of the 5th and 6th centuries and that spread throughout almost all of Germanic-speaking Europe. Parallels to the German poem from Scandinavia are found especially in the heroic lays of the \"Poetic Edda\" and in the \"Völsunga saga\".\n\nThe poem is split into two parts: in the first part, Siegfried comes to Worms to acquire the hand of the Burgundian princess Kriemhild from her brother King Gunther. Gunther agrees to let Siegfried marry Kriemhild if Siegfried helps Gunther acquire the warrior-queen Brünhild as his wife. Siegfried does this and marries Kriemhild; however Brünhild and Kriemhild become rivals, leading eventually to Siegfried's murder by the Burgundian vassal Hagen with Gunther's involvement. In the second part, the widow Kriemhild is married to Etzel, king of the Huns. She later invites her brother and his court to visit Etzel's kingdom intending to kill Hagen. Her revenge results in the death of all the Burgundians who came to Etzel's court as well as the destruction of Etzel's kingdom and the death of Kriemhild herself.\n\nThe \"Nibelungenlied\" was the first heroic epic put into writing in Germany, helping to found a larger genre of written heroic poetry. The poem's tragedy appears to have bothered its medieval audience, and very early on a sequel was written, the \"Nibelungenklage\", which made the tragedy less final. The poem was forgotten after around 1500, but was rediscovered in 1755. Dubbed the \"German \"Iliad\"\", the \"Nibelungenlied\" began a new life as the German national epic. The poem was appropriated for nationalist purposes and was heavily used in anti-democratic, reactionary, and National-Socialist propaganda before and during the Second World War. Its legacy today is most visible in Richard Wagner's operatic cycle \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\", which, however, is mostly based on Old Norse sources. In 2009, the three main manuscripts of the \"Nibelungenlied\" were inscribed in UNESCO's Memory of the World Register in recognition of their historical significance. It has been called \"one of the most impressive, and certainly the most powerful, of the German epics of the Middle Ages.\"\n\nThe poem in its various written forms was lost by the end of the 16th century, but manuscripts from as early as the 13th century were re-discovered during the 18th century. There are thirty-five known manuscripts of the \"Nibelungenlied\" and its variant versions. Eleven of these manuscripts are essentially complete. The oldest version seems to be the one preserved in manuscript \"B\". Twenty-four manuscripts are in various fragmentary states of completion, including one version in Dutch (manuscript 'T'). The text contains approximately 2,400 stanzas in 39 \"Aventiuren\". The title under which the poem has been known since its discovery is derived from the final line of one of the three main versions, \"hie hât daz mære ein ende: daz ist der Nibelunge liet\" (\"here the story takes an end: this is the lay of the Nibelungs\"). \"Liet\" here means \"lay\", \"tale\" or \"epic\" rather than simply \"song\", as it would in Modern German.\n\nThe manuscripts' sources deviate considerably from one another. Philologists and literary scholars usually designate three main genealogical groups for the entire range of available manuscripts, with two primary versions comprising the oldest known copies: *AB and *C. This categorization derives from the signatures on the *A, *B, and *C manuscripts as well as the wording of the last verse in each source: \"daz ist der Nibelunge liet\" or \"daz ist der Nibelunge nôt\". Nineteenth-century philologist Karl Lachmann developed this categorisation of the manuscript sources in \"Der Nibelunge Noth und die Klage nach der ältesten Überlieferung mit Bezeichnung des Unechten und mit den Abweichungen der gemeinen Lesart\" (Berlin: G. Reimer, 1826).\n\nThe famous opening of the \"Nibelungenlied\" is actually thought to be an addition by the redactor of the \"C\" version of the \"Nibelungenlied\", as it does not appear in the oldest manuscripts. It may have been inspired by the prologue of the \"Nibelungenklage\".\n\n\n\n\nThe original version instead began with the introduction of Kriemhild, the protagonist of the work.\n\nThe epic is divided into two parts, the first dealing with the story of Siegfried and Kriemhild, the wooing of Brünhild and the death of Siegfried at the hands of Hagen, and Hagen's hiding of the Nibelung treasure in the Rhine (Chapters 1–19). The second part deals with Kriemhild's marriage to Etzel, her plans for revenge, the journey of the Burgundians to the court of Etzel, and their last stand in Etzel's hall (Chapters 20–39).\n\nThe first chapter introduces the court of Burgundy. Kriemhild (the virgin sister of King Gunther, and his brothers Gernot and Giselher) has a dream of a falcon that is killed by two eagles. Her mother interprets this to mean that Kriemhild's future husband will die a violent death, and Kriemhild consequently resolves to remain unmarried.\n\nThe second chapter tells of the background of Siegfried, crown prince of Xanten. His youth is narrated with little room for the adventures later attributed to him. In the third chapter, Siegfried arrives in Worms with the hopes of wooing Kriemhild. Upon his arrival, Hagen von Tronje, one of King Gunther's vassals, tells Gunther about Siegfried's youthful exploits that involved winning a treasure and lands from a pair of brothers, Nibelung and Schilbung, whom Siegfried had killed when he was unable to divide the treasure between them and, almost incidentally, the killing of a dragon. Siegfried leaves his treasure in the charge of a dwarf named Alberich.\n\nAfter killing the dragon, Siegfried then bathed in its blood, which rendered him invulnerable. Unfortunately for Siegfried, a leaf fell onto his back from a linden tree, and the small patch of skin that the leaf covered did not come into contact with the dragon's blood, leaving Siegfried vulnerable in that single spot. In spite of Hagen's threatening stories about his youth, the Burgundians welcome him, but do not allow him to meet the princess. Disappointed, he nonetheless remains in Worms and helps Gunther defeat the invading Saxons.\n\nIn Chapter 5, Siegfried finally meets Kriemhild. Gunther requests Siegfried to sail with him to the fictional city of Isenstein in Iceland to win the hand of Iceland's Queen, Brünhild. Siegfried agrees, though only if Gunther allows him to marry Gunther's sister, Kriemhild, whom Siegfried pines for. Gunther, Siegfried and a group of Burgundians set sail for Iceland with Siegfried pretending to be Gunther's vassal. Upon their arrival, Brünhild challenges Gunther to a trial of strength with her hand in marriage as a reward. If they lose, however, they will be sentenced to death. She challenges Gunther to three athletic contests, throwing a javelin, tossing a boulder, and a leap. After seeing the boulder and javelin, it becomes apparent to the group that Brünhild is immensely strong and they fear for their lives.\nSiegfried quietly returns to the boat on which his group had sailed and retrieves his special cloak, which renders him invisible and gives him the strength of 12 men (Chapters 6–8). Siegfried, with his immense strength, invisibly leads Gunther through the trials. Unknowingly deceived, the impressed Brünhild thinks King Gunther, not Siegfried, defeated her and agrees to marry Gunther. Gunther becomes afraid that Brünhild may yet be planning to kill them, so Siegfried goes to Nibelungenland and single-handedly conquers the kingdom. Siegfried makes them his vassals and returns with a thousand of them, himself going ahead as messenger. The group of Burgundians, Gunther and Gunther's new wife-to-be Brünhild return to Worms, where a grand reception awaits them and they marry to much fanfare. Siegfried and Kriemhild are also then married with Gunther's blessings.\n\nHowever, on their wedding night, Brünhild suspects something is amiss with her situation, particularly suspecting Siegfried as a potential cause. Gunther attempts to sleep with her and, with her great strength, she easily ties him up and leaves him that way all night. After he tells Siegfried of this, Siegfried again offers his help, proposing that he slip into their chamber at night with his invisibility cloak and silently beat Brünhild into submission. Gunther agrees but says that Siegfried must not sleep with Brünhild. Siegfried slips into the room according to plan and after a difficult and violent struggle, an invisible Siegfried defeats Brünhild. Siegfried then takes her ring and belt, which are symbols of defloration. Here it is implied that Siegfried sleeps with Brünhild, despite Gunther's request. Afterwards, Brünhild no longer possesses her once-great strength and says she will no longer refuse Gunther. Siegfried gives the ring and belt to his own newly wed, Kriemhild, in Chapter 10.\n\nYears later, Brünhild, still feeling as if she had been lied to, goads Gunther into inviting Siegfried and Kriemhild to their kingdom. Brünhild does this because she is still under the impression that Gunther married off his sister to a low-ranking vassal (while Gunther and Siegfried are in reality of equal rank) yet the normal procedures are not being followed between the two ranks combined with her lingering feelings of suspicion. Both Siegfried and Kriemhild come to Worms and all is friendly between the two until, before entering Worms Cathedral, Kriemhild and Brünhild argue over who should have precedence according to their husbands' perceived ranks.\n\nHaving been earlier deceived about the relationship between Siegfried and Gunther, Brünhild thinks it is obvious that she should go first, through custom of her perceived social rank. Kriemhild, unaware of the deception involved in Brünhild's wooing, insists that they are of equal rank and the dispute escalates. Severely angered, Kriemhild shows Brünhild first the ring and then the belt that Siegfried took from Brünhild on her wedding night, and then calls her Siegfried's \"kebse\" (mistress or concubine). Brünhild feels greatly distressed and humiliated, and bursts into tears.\n\nThe argument between the queens is both a risk for the marriage of Gunther and Brünhild and a potential cause for a lethal rivalry between Gunther and Siegfried, which both Gunther and Siegfried attempt to avoid. Gunther acquits Siegfried of the charges. Despite this, Hagen von Tronje decides to kill Siegfried to protect the honor and reign of his king. Although it is Hagen who does the deed, Gunther – who at first objects to the plot – along with his brothers knows of the plan and quietly assents. Hagen contrives a false military threat to Gunther, and Siegfried, considering Gunther a great friend, volunteers to help Gunther once again.\n\nUnder the pretext of this threat of war, Hagen persuades Kriemhild, who still trusts Hagen, to mark Siegfried's single vulnerable point on his clothing with a cross under the premise of protecting him. Now knowing Siegfried's weakness, the fake campaign is called off and Hagen then uses the cross as a target on a hunting trip, killing Siegfried with a javelin as he is drinking from a brook (Chapter 16). Kriemhild becomes aware of Hagen's deed when, in Hagen's presence, the corpse of Siegfried bleeds from the wound (cruentation). This perfidious murder is particularly dishonorable in medieval thought, as \"throwing\" a javelin is the manner in which one might slaughter a wild beast, not a knight. We see this in other literature of the period, such as with Parsifal's unwittingly dishonorable crime of combatting and slaying knights with a javelin (transformed into a swan in Wagner's opera). Further dishonoring Siegfried, Hagen steals the hoard from Kriemhild and throws it into the Rhine (Rheingold), to prevent Kriemhild from using it to establish an army of her own.\n\nKriemhild swears to take revenge for the murder of her husband and the theft of her treasure. Many years later, King Etzel of the Huns (Attila the Hun) proposes to Kriemhild, she journeys to the land of the Huns, and they are married. For the baptism of their son, she invites her brothers, the Burgundians, to a feast at Etzel's castle in Hungary. Hagen does not want to go, suspecting that it is a trick by Kriemhild in order to take revenge and kill them all, but is taunted until he does. As the Burgundians cross the Danube, this fate is confirmed by Nixes, who predict that all but one monk will die. Hagen tries to drown the monk in order to render the prophecy futile, but he survives.\n\nThe Burgundians arrive at Etzel's castle and are welcomed by Kriemhild \"with lying smiles and graces.\" But the lord Dietrich of Bern, an ally of Etzel's, advises the Burgundians to keep their weapons with them at all times, which is normally not allowed. The tragedy unfolds as Kriemhild comes before Hagen, reproaching him for her husband Siegfried's death, and demands that he return her \"Nibelungenschatz\". Not only did Hagen humiliate her right from arrival by openly carrying Balmung, Siegfried's sword stolen right away from his corpse. He also answers her boldly, admits he killed Siegfried and that he sank the Nibelungen treasure into the Rhine. The culprit, however, blames all these acts on Kriemhild's own behavior.\n\nKing Etzel then welcomes his wife's brothers warmly. But outside a tense feast in the great hall, a fight breaks out between Huns and Burgundians, and soon there is general mayhem. When word of the fight arrives at the feast, Hagen decapitates the young son of Kriemhild and Etzel before their eyes. The Burgundians take control of the hall, which is besieged by Etzel's warriors. Kriemhild offers her brothers their lives if they hand over Hagen, but they refuse. The battle lasts all day, until the queen orders the hall to be burned with the Burgundians inside.\n\nAll of the Burgundians are killed except for Hagen and Gunther, who are bound and held prisoner by Dietrich of Bern. Kriemhild has the men brought before her and orders her brother Gunther to be killed. Even after seeing Gunther's head, Hagen refuses to tell the queen what he has done with the Nibelungen treasure. Furious, Kriemhild herself cuts off Hagen's head. Old Hildebrand, the mentor of Dietrich of Bern, is infuriated by the shameful deaths of the Burgundian guests. He hews Kriemhild to pieces with his sword. In a fifteenth-century manuscript, he is said to strike Kriemhild a single clean blow to the waist; she feels no pain, however, and declares that his sword is useless. Hildebrand then drops a ring and commands Kriemhild to pick it up. As she bends down, her body falls into pieces. Dietrich and Etzel and all the people of the court lament the deaths of so many heroes.\n\nThe \"Nibelunglied\", like other Middle High German heroic epics, is anonymous. This anonymity extends to discussions of literature in other Middle High German works: although it is common practice to judge or praise the poems of others, no other poet refers to the author of the \"Nibelungenlied\". Attempts to identify the \"Nibelungenlied\"-poet with known authors, such as Bligger von Steinach, to whom a lost epic is attributed by Gottfried von Strassburg, have not found wide acceptance. The poem is nevertheless believed to have had a single author, possibly working in a \"Nibelungen workshop\" (\"Nibelungenwerkstatt\") together with the author of the \"Nibelungenklage\". The latter work identifies a \"meister Konrad\" as the author of an original Latin version of the \"Nibelungenlied\", but this is generally taken for a fiction. Although a single \"Nibelungenlied\"-poet is often posited, the degree of variance in the text and its background in an amorphous oral tradition mean that ideas of authorial intention must be applied with caution. It is also possible that there were several poets involved, perhaps under the direction of a single \"leader\" who could be considered the \"\"Nibelungenlied\"-poet\".\n\nThe \"Nibelungenlied\" is conventionally dated to around 1200: Wolfram von Eschenbach references the cook Rumolt, usually taken as an invention of the \"Nibelungenlied\"-poet, in his \"Parzival\" (c. 1204/5), giving a date by which the epic must have been composed. Additionally, the poem's rhyming technique most closely resembles that used between 1190 and 1205. Attempts to show that the poem alludes to various historical events have generally not been convincing.\n\nThe current theory of the creation of the poem emphasizes the poet's concentration on the region of Passau: the poem highlights the relatively unimportant figure of bishop Pilgrim of Passau, and the poet's geographical knowledge appears much more firm for this area than for elsewhere. These facts, combined with the dating, have led scholars to believe that Wolfger von Erla, bishop of Passau (reigned 1191-1204) was the patron of the poem. Wolfger is known to have patronized other literary figures, such as Walther von der Vogelweide and Thomasin von Zirclaere.The attention paid to bishop Pilgrim, who represents the real historical figure bishop Pilgrim of Passau, would thus be an indirect homage to Wolfger. Wolfger was, moreover, attempting to establish the sainthood of Pilgrim at the time of the poem's composition, giving an additional reason for his prominence.\n\nSome debate exists as to whether the poem is an entirely new creation or whether there was a previous version. Jan-Dirk Müller is of the opinion that the poem in its written form is entirely new, although he admits the possibility that an orally transmitted epic with relatively consistent contents could have proceeded it. Elisabeth Lienert, on the other hand, posits an earlier version of the text from around 1150 due to the \"Nibelungenlied's\" use of a stanzaic form current around that time (see #Form and style).\n\nWhoever the poet may have been, he appears to have had a knowledge of German Minnesang and of chivalric romance. The poem's concentration on love (\"minne\") and its depiction of Siegfried as engaging in love service for Kriemhild is in line with courtly romances of the time, with Heinrich von Veldeke's \"Eneasroman\" perhaps providing concrete models. Another possible influence is Hartmann von Aue's \"Iwein\", as well as \"Erec\". These courtly elements are described by Jan-Dirk Müller as something of a façade, under which the older heroic ethos of the poem remains. Additionally, the poet seems to have known Latin literature. The role given to Kriemhild in the second (originally first) stanza is suggestive of Helen of Troy, and the poem appears to have taken a number of elements from Vergil's \"Aeneid\". There is some debate as to whether the poet was acquainted with Old French \"chanson de geste\".\n\nThe language of the \"Nibelungenlied\" is characterized by its formulaic nature, a feature of oral poetry: this means that similar or identical words, epithets, phrases, even lines can be found in various positions throughout the poem. These elements can be used flexibly for different purposes in the poem. As the \"Nibelungenlied\" is generally thought to have been conceived as a written work, these elements are typically taken as signs of \"fictive orality\" (\"fingierte Mündlichkeit\") that underscore the connection of the poem to its traditionally oral subject matter.\n\nThe \"Nibelungenlied\" is written in four-line stanzas. Although no melody has survived for the text, melodies for similar stanzas in other German heroic poems have, so that it is certain that the text was meant to be sung. The stanza consists of three \"Langzeilen\" (long lines), which consist of three metrical feet, a caesura, and three metrical feet following the caesura. The fourth line adds an additional foot following the caesura, making it longer than the other three and marking the end of the stanza. The final word before the caesura is typically female (a stressed syllable followed by an unstressed syllable), whereas the final word of a line is typical male (a stressed syllable). The lines rhyme in pairs, and occasionally there are internal rhymes between the words at the end of the caesura, as in the first stanza (see #Synopsis). Victor Millet prints the poem's sixth stanza as an example of the metrical form. An acute accent indicates the stressed beat of a metrical foot, and || indicates the caesura:\n\nMany stanzas of the poem are constructed in a much less regular manner. It is likely that the \"Nibelungenlied\" cites an oral story-telling tradition in using singable stanzas; however, the longer final line is generally thought to belong to a more refined artistic milieu, as later heroic epics typically use a stanza without this longer final line (the so-called \"Hildebrandston\"). The stanzaic form of the \"Nibelungenlied\", on the other hand, is shared with the Danubian minnesinger known as Der von Kürenberg who flourished in the 1150s and 1160s. The \"Nibelungenlied\"-poet may have been inspired by this lyrical stanza. His use of the stanza would thus cite an oral story-telling tradition while at the same time creating some distance to it. Andreas Heusler supposed that the poet had taken some earlier orally transmitted stanzas and added a fourth foot to their final line: these supposedly older stanzas are characterized by a more archaic vocabulary as well. Jan-Dirk Müller notes that while it would be typical of a medieval poet to incorporate lines from other works in his own, no stanza of the \"Nibelungenlied\" can be proven to have come from an older poem.\n\nThe nature of the stanza creates a structure whereby the narrative progresses in blocks: the first three lines carry the story forward, while the fourth introduces foreshadowing of the disaster at the end or comments on events. The fourth line is thus often the most formulaic of the stanza. Stanzas often seem to have been placed after each other without necessarily being causally or narratively connected; for instance, two consecutive stanzas might portray two different reactions to an event by the same figure. Often, the same reaction is given to multiple figures in different stanzas, so that the impression of collective rather than individual reactions is created. Enjambment between stanzas is very rare. The epic frequently creates multiple motivations for events, some of which may contradict each other. This style of narration also causes the events within the poem to come to a frequent halt, which can last for years within the time portrayed in the poem. The division of the epic into \"âventiuren\" (\"books\", literally \"adventures\") underlines the disconnect between the various episodes. The connection between the first half (Siegfried's murder) and the second half of the epic (Kriemhild's marriage to Etzel) is especially loose. The epic nevertheless maintains the causal and narrative connection between episodes through the commentary of the narrator, who frequently reminds the poem's audience of the coming catastrophe, while the manner in which the epic is told serves to delay the inevitable disaster. The action becomes more and more intense as the epic nears its end.\n\nBehind \"Nibelungenlied\" stands a large oral tradition, the so-called Nibelungen saga. This oral tradition, moreover, continued to exist following the composition of the \"Nibelungenlied\", as proven by the \"Rosengarten zu Worms\" and \"Das Lied vom Hürnen Seyfrid\", both of which were written later than the \"Nibelungenlied\" but contain elements of the saga that are absent in it. These oral traditions have, at least in some cases, a historical core. However, various historical events and figures have been melded together into a single plot in such a way that the original historical context has been lost. The epic, and presumably the oral traditions that provided its material, have transformed historical events into relatively simple narrative schemas that can be compared with other, similar (originally) oral narratives from other cultures. What had originally been political motivations have been \"personalized,\" so that political events are explained through personal preferences, likes, dislikes, and feuds rather than purely by Realpolitik. Various historical personages, moreover, appear to be contemporaries despite not having lived at the same time historically.\n\nThe Nibelungen saga also seems to have had an early reception in Scandinavia, so that parallel stories are found among the heroic lays of the Poetic Edda (written down in 1270, but containing at least some much older material) and in the \"Völsunga saga\" (second half of the thirteenth century). While the Norse texts were once usually considered to contain a more original version of the Nibelungen saga, newer scholarship has called this into question and notes that the connections made to Norse mythology and Germanic paganism, such as the semi-divine origin of the Nibelungen hoard, are likely more recent developments that are therefore unique to the Scandinavian tradition. Some elements of the Norse tradition, however, are assuredly older.\n\nThe death of the Burgundians finds its origins in the destruction of the historical Burgundian kingdom on the Rhine. This kingdom, under the rule of king Gundaharius was destroyed by the Roman general Flavius Aetius in 436/437, with survivors resettled in what later became the Franche-Comté of Burgundy. The \"Lex Burgundionum\", codified by the Burgundian king Gundobad at the end of the sixth century, contains many names that can be connected with the Nibelungen saga, including, besides Gundaharius, Gislaharius (Giselher), Gundomaris (possibly the historical figure behind the Old Norse Gothorm, who is replaced by Gernot in the German tradition), and Gibica (attested in Germany as Gibich but not found in the \"Nibelungenlied\"). Although the Burgundian kingdom on the Rhine is thus historically attested, the saga locates its destruction at the court of Attila (Etzel), king of the Huns. The destruction of Attila's kingdom itself is likely inspired by Attila's sudden death following his wedding in 453, which was popularly blamed on his wife, a Germanic woman named Hildico. Her name, containing the element \"hild\" may have inspired that of Kriemhild. Kriemhild most likely originally killed Etzel and avenged her relatives rather than her husband, but this change had already taken place some time before the creation of the \"Nibelungenlied\". Jan-Dirk Müller doubts that we can be certain which version is more original given that in both cases Kriemhild brings about the destruction of the Hunnish kingdom. The differences may be because the continental saga is more favorable to Attila than the Norse, and so Attila could not be held directly responsible for the treacherous invitation of the Burgundians.\n\nUnlike the Burgundians, Siegfried cannot be firmly identified with a historical figure. He may have his origins in the Merovingian dynasty, where names beginning with the element \"Sigi-\" were common and where there was also a famous and violent queen Brunhilda (543–613). The feud between this historical Brunhilda and the rival queen Fredegund may have provided the origin of the feud between Brünhild and Kriemhild. The name \"Siegfried\" itself is a relatively recent one, only being attested from the seventh century onward, meaning that the original name may have been equivalent to the Old Norse \"Sigurd\". Scholars such as Otto Höfler have speculated that Siegfried and his slaying of the dragon may be a mythologized reflection of Arminius and his defeat of the Roman legions in the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest in 9 AD. Jan-Dirk Müller suggests that Siegfried likely has a more mythological origin. The story of the destruction of the Burgundians and Siegfried appear to have been originally unconnected. The Old Norse \"Atlakviða\", a poem likely originally from the ninth century that has been reworked as part of the Poetic Edda, tells the story of the death of the Burgundians without any mention of Sigurd (Siegfried) and can be taken as an attestation for an older tradition. In fact, the earliest attested work to connect Siegfried explicitly with the destruction of the Burgundians is the \"Nibelungenlied\" itself, though Old Norse parallels make it clear that this tradition must have existed orally for some time.\n\nWhen composing the \"Nibelungenlied\", its poet was faced with setting an oral tradition down into a definitive version although that tradition was by its very nature amorphous. In choosing which elements of the saga to include in his version, the poet therefore often incorporated two versions of an event that were likely not combined in the oral tradition. An example is the beginning of the fighting in Etzel's hall, which is motivated both by 1) an attack on the Burgundians' supplies; 2) Hagen's killing of prince Ortlieb. The Old Norse \"Thidrekssaga\", which is based on German sources, contains only the second element, meaning that the two motivations were likely variants that were hardly ever combined in practice. Victor Millet concludes that the poet deliberately doubles the motivations or occurrences of various events, including Siegfried's wooing of Kriemhild, the deception of Brünhild, Hagen's humiliation of Kriemhild, and Kriemhild's demand for the return of Nibelungen treasure.\n\nThe poet also appears to have significantly altered various aspects of the saga. Most significantly, the poet has suppressed the mythological or fantastical elements of Siegfried's story. When these elements are introduced, it is in a retrospective tale narrated by Hagen that reduces the slaying of the dragon to a single stanza. Hagen's story, moreover, does not accord with Siegfried's youth as the narrator of the \"Nibelungenlied\" has portrayed it, in which he receives a courtly education in Xanten. More elaborate stories about Siegfried's youth are found in the \"Thidrekssaga\" and in the later heroic ballad \"Das Lied vom Hürnen Seyfrid\", both of which appear to preserve German oral traditions about the hero that the \"Nibelungenlied\"-poet decided to suppress for his poem.\n\nThe portrayal of Kriemhild, particularly in the first half of the romance, as a courtly lady is likely an invention of the \"Nibelungenlied\"-poet. Earlier (and many later) attestations of Kriemhild outside of the \"Nibelungenlied\" portray her as obsessed with power and highlight her treachery to her brothers rather than her love for her husband as her motivation for betraying them. The poet still uses images from this traditional picture, but given the new motivation of the poem's Kriemhild, their meaning has changed. For instance, when Kriemhild demands that Hagen give back what he has taken from her, a traditional motif known from the Norse versions, she could mean the stolen hoard, but she could also mean her murdered husband. Hagen, similarly, in demanding that Gunther first be killed before he reveals the hoard's location, even though the hoard is at the bottom of the Rhine and cannot be retrieved, reveals Kriemhild's mercilessness while also showing his own duplicity. It is unclear which figure is in the right and which in the wrong.\n\nWith 36 manuscripts, the \"Nibelungenlied\" appears to have been one of the most popular works of the German Middle Ages and seems to have found a very broad audience. The poem is quoted by Wolfram von Eschenbach in his \"Parzival\" and \"Willehalm\", and likely inspired his use of stanzas in his unfinished \"Titurel\". The manuscript witnesses and medieval references to the \"Nibelungenlied\" show that medieval recipients were most interested in the \"Nibelungenlied\" as the story of the destruction of the Burgundians; the first half of the poem was often shortened or otherwise summarized. The Ambraser Heldenbuch titles its copy of the \"Nibelungenlied\" with \"Ditz Puech heysset Chrimhilt\" (this book is named \"Kriemhild\"), showing that she was seen as the most important character.\n\nThe areas of medieval interest seem in particular to have been the inescapability of the slaughter at the end of the poem and Kriemhild and Hagen's culpability or innocence. The earliest attested reception of the \"Nibelungenlied\", the \"Nibelungenklage\", which was likely written only shortly afterwards, shows an attempt both to make sense of the horror of the destruction and to absolve Kriemhild of blame. The C version of the \"Nibelungenlied\", redacted around the same time as the \"Klage\", shows a similar strategy. The presence of the \"Nibelungenklage\" in all manuscripts of the \"Nibelungenlied\" shows that the ending of the \"Nibelungenlied\" itself was evidently unsatisfying to its primary audience without some attempt to explain these two \"scandalous\" elements. The \"Rosengarten zu Worms\", on the other hand, demonizes Kriemhild thoroughly, while the late-medieval \"Lied vom Hürnen Seyfrid\" takes her side even more strongly.\n\nAs the first Middle High German heroic poem to be written, the \"Nibelungenlied\" can be said to have founded an entire genre of Middle High German literature. As a result, other Middle High German heroic poems are sometimes described as \"post-Nibelungian\" (\"nachnibelungisch\"). The majority of these epics revolve around the hero Dietrich von Bern, who plays a secondary role in the \"Nibelungenlied\": it is likely that his presence there inspired these new poems. Many of the following heroic epics appear to respond to aspects of the \"Nibelungenlied\": the \"Kudrun\" (c. 1250), for instance, has been described as a reply to the \"Nibelungenlied\" that reverses the heroic tragedy of the previous poem. Kudrun herself is sometimes seen as a direct reversal of Kriemhild, as she makes peace among warring factions rather than driving them to their deaths. No Middle High German heroic epic after the \"Nibelungenlied\" maintains the tragic heroic atmosphere that characterized earlier Germanic heroic poetry, and the later poems are often further hybridized with elements of chivalric romance.\n\nReception of the \"Nibelungenlied\" ceases after the fifteenth century: the work is last copied in manuscript as part of the Ambraser Heldenbuch around 1508, and its last mention is by the Viennese historian Wolfgang Lazius in two works from 1554 and 1557 respectively. It was not printed and appears to have been forgotten. The Nibelungen saga, however, was not forgotten completely; the \"Rosengarten zu Worms\" was printed as part of the printed Heldenbuch until 1590 and inspired several plays in the early seventeenth century, while \"Hürnen Seyfrid\" continued to be printed into the nineteenth century in a prose version.\n\nAfter having been forgotten for two hundred years, the \"Nibelungenlied\" manuscript C was rediscovered by Jacob Hermann Obereit in 1755. That same year, Johann Jacob Bodmer publicized the discovery, publishing excerpts and his own reworkings of the poem. Bodmer dubbed the \"Nibelungenlied\" the \"German \"Iliad\"\" (\"deutsche Ilias\"), a comparison that skewed the reception of the poem by comparing it to the poetics of classical epic. Bodmer attempted to make the \"Nibelungenlied\" conform more closely to these principles in his own reworkings of the poem, leaving off the first part in his edition, titled \"Chriemhilden Rache\", in order to imitate the \"in medias res\" technique of Homer. He later rewrote the second part in dactylic hexameter under the title \"Die Rache der Schwester\" (1767). Bodmer's placement of the \"Nibelungenlied\" in the tradition of classical epic had a detrimental effect on its early reception: when presented with a full edition of the medieval poem by Christoph Heinrich Myller, king Frederick II famously called the \"Nibelungenlied\" \"not worth a shot of powder\" (\"nicht einen Schuß Pulver werth\"). Goethe was similarly unimpressed, and Hegel compared the epic unfavorably to Homer. The epic nevertheless had its supporters, such as August Wilhelm Schlegel, who called it a \"great tragedy\" (\"große Tragödie\") in a series of lectures from 1802/3. Many early supporters sought to distance German literature from French Classicism and belonged to artistic movements such as \"Sturm und Drang\".\n\nAs a consequence of the comparison of the \"Nibelungenlied\" to the \"Iliad\", the \"Nibelungenlied\" came to be seen as the German national epic in the earlier nineteenth century, particularly in the context of the Napoleonic Wars. The \"Nibelungenlied\" was supposed to embody German bourgeois virtues that the French were seen as lacking. This interpretation of the epic continued during the Biedermeier period, during which the heroic elements of the poem were mostly ignored in favor of those that could more easily be integrated into a bourgeois understanding of German virtue. The translation of Karl Simrock into modern German in 1827 was especially influential in popularizing the epic and remains influential today. Also notable from this period is the three-part dramatic tragedy \"Die Nibelungen\" by Friedrich Hebbel.\n\nFollowing the founding of the German Empire, recipients began to focus more on the heroic aspects of the poem, with the figure of Siegfried in particular becoming an identifying figure for German nationalism. Especially important for this new understanding of the poem was Richard Wagner's operatic cycle \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\", which, however, was based almost entirely on the Old Norse versions of the Nibelung saga. Wagner's preference for the Old Norse versions followed a popular judgment of the time period: the Nordic versions were seen as being more \"original\" than the courtly story portrayed in the German poem. In the First World War, the alliance between Germany and Austria-Hungary came to be described as possessing \"Nibelungen-Treue\" (Nibelungen loyalty), referring to the loyalty to death between Hagen and the Burgundians. While militaristic, the use of imagery from the \"Nibelungenlied\" remained optimistic in this period rather than focusing on the doom at the end of the epic.\n\nThe interwar period saw the \"Nibelungenlied\" enter the world of cinema in Fritz Lang's two part film \"Die Nibelungen\" (1924/1925), which tells the entire story of the poem. At the same time, the \"Nibelungenlied\" was heavily employed in anti-democratic propaganda following the defeat of Germany and Austria-Hungary: the epic supposedly showed that the German people were more well suited to a heroic, aristocratic form of life than democracy. The betrayal and murder of Siegfried was explicitly compared to the \"stab in the back\" that the German army had supposedly received. At the same time, Hagen and his willingness to sacrifice himself and fight to the death made him into a central figure in the reception of the poem. During the Second World War, Hermann Göring would explicitly use this aspect of the \"Nibelungenlied\" to celebrate the sacrifice of the German army at Stalingrad and compare the Soviets to Etzel's Asiatic Huns.\n\nPostwar reception and adaptation of the poem, reacting to its misuse by the Nazis, is often parodic. At the same time, the poem continues to play a role in regional culture and history, particularly in Worms and other places mentioned in the \"Nibelungenlied\". Much discussion has centered on whether and how the epic ought to be taught in schools. The material of the Nibelungen saga has continued to inspire new adaptations. These include \"Die Nibelungen\", a German remake of Fritz Lang's film from 1966/67, and the television film \"\" from 2004. However, the majority of popular adaptations of the material today in film, computer games, comic books, etc., are not based on the medieval epic directly.\n\nOutside of Germany, most reception of the Nibelungen material has taken place via Wagner, although the epic has been translated into English numerous times.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4642495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4642495", "title": "Number sense", "text": "Number sense\n\nIn mathematics education, number sense can refer to \"an intuitive understanding of numbers, their magnitude, relationships, and how they are affected by operations\". Other definitions of number sense emphasize an ability to work outside of the traditionally taught algorithms, e.g., \"a well organised conceptual framework of number information that enables a person to understand numbers and number relationships and to solve mathematical problems that are not bound by traditional algorithms\".\n\nPsychologists believe that the number sense in humans can be differentiated into the approximate number system, a system that supports the estimation of the magnitude, and the parallel individuation system, which allows the tracking of individual objects, typically for quantities below 4.\n\nThere are also some differences in how number sense is defined in math cognition. For example, Gersten and Chard say number sense \"refers to a child's fluidity and flexibility with numbers, the sense of what numbers mean and an ability to perform mental mathematics and to look at the world and make comparisons.\"\n\nIn non-human animals, number sense is not the ability to count, but the ability to perceive changes in the number of things in a collection. All mammals, and most birds, will notice if there is a change in the number of their young nearby. Many birds can distinguish two from three.\nIn humans, small children around fourteen months of age are also able to notice something that is missing from a group that they are familiar with.\n\nResearchers consider number sense to be of prime importance for children in early elementary education, and the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics has made number sense a focus area of pre-K through 2nd grade mathematics education. An active area of research is to create and test teaching strategies to develop children's number sense. Number sense also refers to the contest hosted by the University Interscholastic League. This contest is a ten-minute test where contestants solve math problems mentally—no calculators, scratch-work, or mark-outs are allowed.\n\nThe term \"number sense\" involves several concepts of magnitude, ranking, comparison, measurement, rounding, percents, and estimation, including:\nThose concepts are taught in elementary-level education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6140120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6140120", "title": "Persona 3", "text": "Persona 3\n\nPersona 3 is a role-playing video game developed by Atlus, and chronologically the fourth installment in the \"Persona\" series, a subseries of the \"Megami Tensei\" franchise. \"Persona 3\" was originally published in 2006 on the PlayStation 2 by Atlus in Japan; the North American release of the game was delayed until 2007 due to issues with the publication of the official art book. \"Persona 3 FES\", a director's cut version containing a new playable epilogue among other changes, was released in Japan in 2007 and worldwide the following year.\n\nIn \"Persona 3\", the player takes the role of a male high-school student who joins the Specialized Extracurricular Execution Squad (SEES), a group of students investigating the Dark Hour, a time period between one day and the next that few people are aware of. During the Dark Hour, the player enters Tartarus, a large tower containing Shadows, creatures that feed on the minds of humans. To fight the Shadows, each member of SEES is able to summon a Persona, a manifestation of a person's inner self. The game's most iconic feature is the method by which the members of SEES release their Personas: by firing a gun-like object called an Evoker at their head. In addition to the standard elements of role-playing games, \"Persona 3\" includes elements of simulation games, as the game's protagonist progresses day by day through a school year, making friends and forming relationships that improve the strength of his Personas in battle.\n\nReception of \"Persona 3\" was mainly positive; critics enjoyed the game's social elements, while some found its combat and environments repetitive. \"Persona 3 FES\" epilogue was said to give narrative closure to the original game, although it was criticized for not featuring the simulation aspect of \"Persona 3\". A PlayStation Portable version of \"Persona 3\", titled \"Persona 3 Portable\" was released in Japan in November 2009, in North America in July 2010, and in Europe in April 2011. The remake adds the ability to play as a female protagonist, new story elements and music, and a new interface designed for the PSP. Two fighting games that continued the storyline of select members of SEES, \"Persona 4 Arena\" and \"Persona 4 Arena Ultimax\", were released in the early 2010s. \"Persona 3\" has also seen related forms of media released, including a rhythm game spinoff, multiple soundtrack albums, musical concerts and radio dramas, a manga adaption, an , and an .\n\n\"Persona 3\" combines elements of traditional role-playing games and simulation games. The game follows the protagonist character, balancing their daily life of going to school and building relationships with other people with fighting evil beings known as Shadows during the mysterious Dark Hour. Each day is divided up between various time zones, the most common of which are \"After School/Daytime\" and \"Evening\". With the exception of scripted events, such as plot progression or special events, the player is free to choose how each day is spent, with most activities causing time to pass on. The types of activities and characters that can be interacted with vary depending on the day of the week and time of day. Additionally, some activities are limited by the protagonist's three attributes; Academics, Charm, and Courage, which can be built by performing various activities or making certain correct choices. During the evening, players can choose to visit Tartarus, the game's main dungeon, where they can build their party's experience and gain new items. On the day of the full moon, players will participate in a boss battle in order to progress the story.\n\nThe main element of the game are the Personas, various creatures and monsters which are associated with the Major Arcana of the Tarot. Each Persona has its own set of strengths and weaknesses, and possess various abilities, ranging from offensive and support abilities, to passive abilities that support the character. Whereas each of the game's main characters has their own Persona, some of which change form as the story progresses, the protagonist is capable of wielding multiple Personas, which can be switched between during battles. New Personas can be created by visiting the Velvet Room and fusing together multiple Personas, passing along certain moves from the Personas used. The Personas that a player can create are limited by the current level of the protagonist. Personas can also be obtained from Shuffle Time following battles, and previously obtained Personas can be summoned from the Persona Compendium for a fee. The Velvet Room additionally allows players to take on quests, such as retrieving certain items, in order to obtain a reward.\n\nNew to the series are , bonds that are formed with several of the game's characters, with each Social Link representing a specific Major Arcana. By spending time with these characters, these Social Links increase in rank. When creating a Persona of a particular Arcana, an experience bonus will be granted if that Arcana possesses a Social Link, with greater bonuses awarded depending on the rank. Performing certain activities or carrying a Persona of a respective Arcana can help bring a Social Link closer to increasing in Rank. Maxing out a Social Link gives players the ability to create specific Personas of each Arcana. Conversely, negative actions, such as incorrect dialogue choices or dating multiple characters, can result in a Reversed Social Link, which can prevent players from summoning Personas of that Arcana until fixed. In the worst-case scenario, a Reversed Social Link can break, effectively removing all Personas of that Arcana from the game.\n\nTartarus is the game's main dungeon, which can be visited during the evening, provided the conditions allow it (e.g. the absence of some characters may prevent the player from visiting Tartarus that night). The player may order the other party members to split up to explore the area, or automatically attack Shadows on sight. Players will eventually come across boss floors, in which the player must defeat powerful Shadows in order to continue their progress. Additionally, certain floors halt further progress through the tower until the story progresses. Occasionally, innocent civilians will wander into Tartarus, winding up on certain floors. Rescuing these civilians safely before a full moon appears grants bonus rewards obtained from the police station. Spending too much time in Tartarus may cause characters to become \"Tired\" or \"Sick\", which can affect their performance during battle. Additionally, if the protagonist becomes Tired or Sick, some activities, such as studying at night, may be hampered. Players can recover their status by taking certain items, visiting the infirmary, or going to bed early.\n\nBattle occurs when the player comes into contact with a Shadow roaming the floor, with the battle party consisting of whoever is in close proximity. Attacking the Shadow without being noticed will give the player an advantage, whilst the enemy gains an advantage if the player is attacked first. Battles use the \"Press Turn\" system, in which both allies and enemies take turns to attack using weapons, items, or Persona abilities. Using the Tactics option, the player can assign specific battle AI to each party member (in \"Persona 3 Portable\", they may also choose to issue direct commands). Offensive attacks are divided into three physical types; Strike, Slash, and Pierce, and six elements; Fire, Ice, Electricity, Wind, Light, and Dark, attributes of which both Personas and Shadows may possess strengths and weaknesses against. Physical abilities use up HP whilst elemental and support magic use SP. By exploiting an enemy's weakness or performing a critical attack, characters can knock the opponent down, granting that character an extra turn, though enemies can also take advantage of an ally's weakness to gain an additional turn. If the player manages to knock all opponents down, they may be granted the opportunity to perform an All-Out Attack, in which all able party members assault the enemies for massive damage. Allies who lose all of their HP can be revived using revival items and abilities, but if the protagonist loses all of their HP, the game will end.\n\nWhen a battle is won, players gain experience points which are divided amongst the party members. Earning enough experience allows Personas to increase in level, granting improved stats and new abilities. Some Personas may also grant Skill Cards, which can be given to other Personas to teach them new abilities. Raising the protagonist's level will allow higher level Personas to be summoned in the Velvet Room, as well as allow the player to carry more Personas. At the end of certain battles, a minigame known as Shuffle Time may appear, in which players select a card from a set that is shuffled around. These can grant bonuses, such as additional experience points, cash, or restored health, or give the player new Personas. However, selecting a cursed card will cause an extremely powerful monster, Death or better known as the Reaper, to appear on the current floor.\n\nThe story of \"Persona 3\" takes place in a 2009 Japanese city called , built and funded by the Kirijo Corporation. Several experiments carried out ten years ago created the , a period of time that exists between one day and the next. During this time, most people turned into coffins and they are not aware of the Dark Hour; however, there is a select group of people who are. The Dark Hour bends reality; Gekkoukan High School, where most of the characters attend school during the day, becomes a huge labyrinthine tower called Tartarus, and beasts known as Shadows roam the area, preying on the minds of those still conscious. The Shadows leave their victims in near-catatonic states outside of the Dark Hour. To investigate and learn about the Dark Hour, Shadows, and Tartarus, the \"Specialized Extracurricular Execution Squad\", or SEES, was created. SEES is a group of high-schoolers capable of summoning beings known as Personas to combat Shadows. The \"Persona 3\" instruction manual describes Persona's being \"a second soul that dwells deep within a person's heart. It is an entirely different personality that emerges when a person is confronted with something from outside this world.\" Persona-users usually summon their Persona by firing a gun-like object called an Evoker at their head.\n\nThe main character of \"Persona 3\" is a silent protagonist, named by the player at the start of the game. He is a teenage boy, orphaned as a child, returning to the city he grew up in ten years prior to attend Gekkoukan High School. After learning of his ability to summon a Persona, he joins SEES, which is composed of students at his school: Yukari Takeba, a popular, cheerful girl; Akihiko Sanada, a calm and collected senior who leads the school's boxing team; and Mitsuru Kirijo, the Student Council President and daughter of the head of the Kirijo Group, who provides backup during battle. As the game progresses, SEES gains several new members: Junpei Iori, a class clown and the Protagonist's best friend; Fuuka Yamagishi, a shy girl who replaces Mitsuru as a support character; Aigis, a female android designed by the Kirijo Group to fight Shadows; Ken Amada, an elementary schooler whose mother was killed by a Persona-user; Shinjiro Aragaki, a former member of SEES who quit due to past events; and Koromaru, a dog capable of summoning a Persona.\n\nPersona 3 begins with the Protagonist transferring to Gekkoukan High School, and moving into a dorm in the city. After learning of his ability to summon a Persona, he is asked to join SEES, and is eventually elected its leader in combat. Additional members join SEES over time, all students attending Gekkoukan: Junpei, who had only recently discovered his ability to summon a Persona; Akihiko, whose arm injury prevented him from fighting; and Fuuka, who replaces Mitsuru as the team's support member. After awakening to his Persona ability, the Protagonist is transported to the Velvet Room, which its proprietor, Igor, says is a realm between \"dream and reality\". Igor explains to him that his Persona ability is special: he is the only member of SEES capable of wielding multiple Personas in battle. In-game, the Velvet Room is where the player may fuse two or more Personas to create a new one. Igor also encourages the Protagonist to meet people and form bonds with them, known as Social Links. According to Igor, the power of his Social Links will determine his potential in combat.\n\nOn nights when the moon is full, the city is attacked by a Shadow more powerful than the ones found in Tartarus. After several of these incidents, Mitsuru is forced to reveal to the team the origin of Tartarus and the Dark Hour. Ten years earlier, the Kirijo Group, a research company founded by Mitsuru's grandfather, began amassing and containing Shadows. They studied and performed experiments on them, in order to harness their power. However, the experiments went awry, allowing the Shadows to escape and assemble into twelve larger creatures. Each is affiliated with one of the twelve Major Arcana. SEES's leader, Shuji Ikutsuki, informs them that, if they were to defeat all twelve of the greater Shadows, Tartarus and the Dark Hour would disappear forever.\n\nAs the year continues, the group adds two more Persona-users to their team: Ken and Koromaru. While vacationing in Yakushima, Junpei, Akihiko, and the Protagonist encounter Aigis, who had recently escaped the laboratory where she was kept, despite having been deactivated for years. For reasons she cannot explain, she has a need to be near the Protagonist, even breaking into his dorm room at night to monitor him. Aigis is also enlisted in SEES. After defeating the twelfth and final Shadow, SEES learns that they had been misled by Shuji Ikutsuki. By destroying the greater Shadows, they have freed parts of a being known as Nyx, which will bring about the end of the world if it is fully restored. Nyx, or the \"maternal being\", is the creator of Shadows; she is drawn to Earth by The Appriser, or \"Death\", a Shadow of the Death arcanum. SEES encounters The Appriser disguised as Ryoji Mochizuki, a recent transfer student to Gekkoukan High School.\n\nThe Shadow experiments performed ten years earlier created the Death Shadow, albeit in an incomplete state. Aigis, unable to defeat the Shadow, sealed it inside the Protagonist, who was a child at the time. By defeating the twelve greater Shadows, the Death Shadow was recreated. Its purpose is to usher Nyx into the world, who will bring about the extinction of all life on Earth. Ryoji insists that Nyx cannot be defeated; however, he offers SEES an alternative. If they were to kill him, their memories of the Dark Hour and Tartarus would vanish, allowing them to continue life unaware of their impending death. Aigis, who now realizes why she wanted to protect the Protagonist, begins to believe that she is useless. She urges SEES to kill Ryoji, as they cannot defeat Nyx. Through encouragement from her friends, however, she gains the resolve to join with SEES as they attempt to fight Nyx.\n\nOn December 31, New Year's Eve, the player must decide whether to kill Ryoji or spare his life. If the protagonist kills him, the game cuts to Graduation Day, with the entirety of SEES (barring Aigis) losing their memories of the Dark Hour and the Shadows, ending on a dark note as they prepare to celebrate in blissful ignorance until Nyx inevitably brings about The Fall and all of humanity dies. If he is spared, then the game continues, and on January 31, SEES ascends to the roof of Tartarus to face Ryoji, who has transformed into the Nyx Avatar. While they are able to defeat him, Nyx continues to descend to Earth. As this is happening, the Protagonist is summoned to the Velvet Room, where Igor reminds him that the power of his Social Links would determine his potential. The Protagonist hears the voices of his friends encouraging him. The strength of his Social Links grants him the power of the \"Universe\", allowing him to seal away Nyx from humanity. The world returns to normal, though the memories of the past year related to the Dark Hour are lost to the members of SEES. However, Aigis and the Protagonist do remember. On Graduation Day, the two go to the roof of the school, where the members of SEES had promised to meet should they stop Nyx and live to see their graduation. As Mitsuru gives her graduation speech, she and the rest of SEES suddenly regain their memories, and the group rush to the roof to fulfill the promise they all made. It is here that Aigis thanks the Protagonist for giving her a purpose in life: protecting him.\n\nThe events of The Answer begin on March 31, shortly after the end of the original game. During the opening sequence, it is revealed that the Protagonist has died; the other characters speculate that his death is related to his defeating Nyx. The school year has ended, and the dorm is to be closed down soon. Aigis reveals to the group that she will not be attending school next year. During their last dinner party, the SEES members discover that they are trapped in their dorm, and that the day March 31 is repeating itself. Later, a large door-like hole opens in the floor of the dorm, and SEES is attacked by Metis, an anti-shadow weapon similar to Aigis. In the midst of fighting Metis to protect her friends, Aigis's Persona, Athena, transforms into Orpheus, the original Persona of the Protagonist. She also gains the Protagonist's Wild Card ability. Aigis is able to subdue Metis, whose actions were an attempt to end the time skip and save Aigis, who she calls her \"sister\".\n\nUnderneath the dorm is the Abyss of Time, the cause of the time skip. The Abyss contains seven doors, the insides of which contain multi-floor dungeons, similar in design to Tartarus; it is in these areas that the game's combat takes place. At the top of each dungeon, the characters witness an event from the past of a member of SEES. After seeing several of these flashbacks, the characters discern that the event shown in each door relates to how that person had awakened to their Persona. At the top of the seventh and final door, SEES fights a Shadow-like version of the Protagonist. After defeating it, each of them obtain a key. By combining the keys, they would be able to end the time skip and leave the dorm. However, Metis presents SEES with an alternative: instead of unlocking the front door of the dorm, they may also use the keys to travel back in time, to before the fight against Nyx and the death of the Protagonist. Now unable to agree on how to use the keys, the characters determine that they must fight each other to decide; Yukari and Mitsuru wish to travel back in time and save the Protagonist from his fate, Akihiko and Ken wish to honor his sacrfice and leave the dorm, while Junpei and Koromaru intend to act as a neutral party and hold the keys until the others can make a rational decision. Aigis, Fuuka and Metis claim all eight keys, which fuse into the Final Key. After debating on what to do now, they discover a third, new door in the Abyss of Time, which the group uses (without the Final Key) to travel to the moment the Protagonist sealed Nyx from the world.\n\nMetis explains that the purpose of the seal created by the Protagonist was not to seal away Nyx herself (who is not inherently evil), but to prevent humanity's despair from calling out to Nyx and bringing about the Fall once more. The subconscious will of mankind to despair and wish for death constantly rebirths a monster called Erebus that summons Nyx to destroy the world; Metis implies that Erebus's contact with Nyx is what caused the Fall (that was prevented by SEES). SEES realizes that the wishes that created Erebus also came from them, and so they fight it, and are able to defeat it. Mitsuru points out that Erebus will return, as humans will never stop wishing for death. After breaking the time skip and exiting through the front door of the dorm with the Final Key, Metis, Aigis, and the rest of SEES are summoned to the Velvet Room, much to Igor's (pleasant) surprise. It is here they learn of Metis's true origins: that she is a manifestation of a part of Aigis's personality. Distraught over the death of the Protagonist, she no longer wanted to live like a human, and wished to return to being a machine. However, after being set free from the Abyss of Time, Aigis changes her mind, deciding to continue to attend school, something she had chosen not to do earlier.\n\n\"Persona 3\" began development in 2004, after the completion of \"\" and \"\". In March 2006, the first details on \"Persona 3\" were unveiled in the Japanese gaming magazine \"Famitsū\". In addition to announcing the game's Japanese release date of July 13, the three-page article detailed the game's premise, combat systems, and the Social Link system (known as \"Community\" in the Japanese version). It also profiled three characters—the Protagonist, Junpei, and Yukari—as well as their respective Personas: Orpheus, Hermes and Io.\n\nThe main character artist and art director for \"Persona 3\" was Shigenori Soejima. Character artist for the previous \"Persona\" titles, Kazuma Kaneko, gave the job to Soejima so he could gain more experience. Soejima felt a degree of pressure when designing the characters as he did not want to disappoint the series' fanbase. The goal was to make players of the \"Megami Tensei\" series feel gratified that they had supported the \"Persona\" series. In an interview, Soejima compared the game's aesthetic and style to a fantastical manga, citing its use of mecha-like Persona and Mitsuru's flamboyant styling. Soejima returned to design the character Metis for \"FES\". The user interface was designed to stand out during the game's marketing, with its blue-colored design intended to evoke a cool and stylish atmosphere. The anime cutscenes for \"Persona 3\" and \"FES\" were animated by animation production company Point Pictures.\n\nIn an interview with the magazine \"Play\", lead director for \"Persona 3\" Katsura Hashino discussed why the decision was made to have party members be directed by an artificial intelligence: \"I think it's more fun to have the party members controlled by their AI, so each member's characteristics and personality are on vivid display. There were no objections raised among the Persona 3 development team, either.\" He also notes that the system \"wasn't well received\" by players of the game. Later, the use of AI for the secondary party members was described as a stylistic choice representing the game's theme of conquering the fear of death through \"bonds\": each character was their own person, and the player could only influence things by interacting with them. \"Persona 3\" does not include the negotiation elements of previous \"Persona\" or \"Megami Tensei\" games, which allowed players to talk to enemies during a battle to recruit them, earn money, or obtain items. However, the social elements of \"Persona 3\" (and its successor, \"Persona 4\") are considered the equivalent of the negotiation system by the development team. Maragos said in a 1UP.com interview that \"negotiation isn't gone...And [it] still factors into Persona Fusion; it's still a big part of the game. I feel like it's disguised, but it's there.\"\n\nThe localization of \"Persona 3\" was handled by Yu Namba and Nich Maragos. During this process, the team worked to leave as much of the original Japanese content intact, continuing a trend started with \"\". One of the ideas had by the team for \"Persona 3\" was to use it as a medium for introducing Japanese culture to a western audience. While localizing \"Persona 3\" for English-speaking countries, the honorifics used by the characters in the original Japanese script were retained. According to Maragos, their use \"[added] so much more meaning to the text\". In an interview with RPGamer, project editor Yu Namba explained that during the process of translation, some of the Japanese humor, \"things that made absolutely no sense in western culture…were replaced with jokes that at least somewhat parallel the originals.\" One of the changes that needed to be made was to the school tests, which were based around questions on the English language. A similar change was Mitsuru's second language: in the original version it was English, but for the localized version her second language was changed to French. This choice was influenced by her cultured appearance. In addition, in-game references to the original \"Shin Megami Tensei\" were altered to references to \"\".\n\nThe soundtrack for \"Persona 3\" was composed entirely by Shoji Meguro, with the sole exception of \"Adventured Act\", which was composed by Yosuke Uda. It was released as a two disc soundtrack in Japan by Aniplex on July 19, 2006. A selection of tracks from the full soundtrack was bundled with the North American release of the game. An arranged album, titled \"Burn My Dread -Reincarnation: Persona 3-\", was also released in Japan by Aniplex on April 18, 2007. It contains eleven arrangements of tracks from \"Persona 3\", as well as an extended version of the song \"Burn My Dread.\" Meguro stated that the development of \"Persona 3\" was one of his first opportunities to fully realize his music in video games. The soundtrack features a high use of vocals, though Meguro did not consider this as special or exceptional. A tune from previous \"Persona\" titles he rearranged was \"Aria of the Soul\", the theme of the Velvet Room. The game's battle theme, \"Mass Destruction\", was originally just a prototype, but the reception to it was so positive that it went into the final game. In the past, the hardware limitations of the original PlayStation required him to compose music in 100-200 kilobyte samples, which he felt made the music sound \"pretty cheap\". The move to the PlayStation 2 allowed for real-time streaming of music. Meguro considers this \"the point at which [he] was finally able to express [his] music without making any compromises\". He was also worried about the pronunciation of the English lyrics.\n\nMeguro returned to compose new music for \"Persona 3: FES\". Released in Japan by Aniplex on May 2, 2007, the soundtrack contained the original score for \"FES\", as well as arrangements of music from earlier games in the \"Persona\" series. \"The Snow Queen\", composed by Kenichi Tsuchiya, is a remix of the theme in \"\". \"Maya's Theme\", composed by Kenichi Tsuchiya, and \"Time Castle\", composed by Toshiko Tasaki, are remixes of tracks from \"\". \"Persona 3 Portable\" contains new background music, which can be heard if the player chooses to control the game's new female protagonist. The game's official soundtrack was released in Japan by Aniplex on November 25, 2009.\n\nWhen the original PlayStation 2 version of \"Persona 3\" was first released in Japan, it sold 127,472 copies in its first week and 210,319 copies overall in Japan by 2008. The North American release of \"Persona 3\" shipped as a collector's edition box, containing the game, a soundtrack disc, and a 52-page art book. The game's original release date was July 24, 2007. However, Atlus encountered a problem with the manufacturing of the art book several days before the intended ship date. Instead of shipping the game without the book, the company decided to push its release back three weeks, to August 14. Atlus issued a press release explaining that they were delaying the game so as maintain the quality of the package, which would have been \"irreparably compromised\" if they had \"revise[d] or abandon[ed] the deluxe package.\"\n\n\"Persona 3 FES\" was first released alongside the original game in two forms: the \"Regular Edition\" — containing both the \"director's cut\" version of \"Persona 3\", and the new epilogue — as two separate discs, and the \"Append Edition\", containing only the epilogue, on a single disc. \"Persona 3\" and its expansion were released simultaneously in Japan on April 19, 2007. At the time, Atlus had not announced plans to release \"FES\" outside Japan. This announcement did not come until February 2008, when the game's North American release date was revealed to be April 22, 2008. An exclusive Amazon.com limited edition bundle was released on November 28, 2008, containing \"Art of Persona 3\" artbook, Persona 3 soundtrack disc and the \"FES\" edition in a cardboard sleeve. The FES edition of the game was also released on PSN on April 10, 2012.\n\n\"Persona 3 Portable\" was released as a stand-alone game and as part of a bundle package, which includes a T-shirt and desk calendar. The game on its own retails for 6,279 yen (US$68), while the bundle (known as \"Persona 3 Portable DX\") sells for 8,495 yen (US$92). In its first month of release, \"Persona 3 Portable\" sold over 158,000 copies in Japan. During the North American release, Atlus offered Junpei's hat as a pre-order bonus for purchasing \"Persona 3 Portable\".\n\n\"Persona 3\" received positive reviews upon its release, earning a Metacritic score of 86. Shane Bettenhausen of 1UP.com called the game a \"refreshingly new take on the \"MegaTen\" [\"Megami Tensei\"] concept\", and \"the best RPG hitting the PS2 this year.\" He praised the \"excellent\" AI created to direct the actions of party members during battle, which he felt created \"the series' speediest and most dynamic battle system to date.\" Jeff Haynes from IGN criticized the system, finding that it would occasionally result in the death of the player's character, which causes a game over.\n\nGameTrailers gave the game a score of 9.0, calling it \"a rare supernatural delicacy\" stating it is an RPG that fans of the genre shouldn't miss out on. GameSpy's Patrick Joynt praised the social elements of \"Persona 3\", calling the game's Social Links \"almost universally fascinating.\" While he suspected the simulation elements would \"probably be the biggest hurdle\" for fans of role-playing or \"Megami Tensei\" games, in his review he wrote that he \"can't stress enough how well-done it is.\" Heidi Kemps of GamesRadar found the game's teenage themes to be \"a refreshing change\" from those of other games in the genre, as they touch on \"the social awkwardness common at that point in life.\" \"Game Informer\"'s Joe Juba found the game's environments to be weak, as \"most of the game takes place within one tower [Tartarus].\" He also in his review noted that the game's roots in the \"Megami Tensei\" series would come across as foreign to new players. \"If you don't know anything about fusing Personas, or simply that 'bufu' means 'ice attack,' you have some catching up to do.\"\n\n\"Persona 3: FES\" received a score of 89 on Metacritic, slightly higher than that of \"Persona 3\". The plot of The Answer provides \"much-needed narrative closure\" to the story of The Journey, according to Shane Bettenhausen. Kevin VanOrd called \"FES\" a \"wonderfully enhanced version of an already-great RPG\"; in his review, he recommends the game to new players and those who had already finished the original game. The gameplay of The Answer was criticized by several reviewers for not including the social elements of the original game. VanOrd found the new chapter to be \"less interesting\" because of this. Jeff Haynes commented that the change \"harkens back to a classic, more hardcore RPG experience of fighting and grinding\", while done at the expense of what \"made \"Persona 3\" so intriguing in the first place.\" The reviews of GameSpy and IGN reiterated issues found with the original game, such as the inability to directly control party members in battle.\n\nWhile some critics like IGN criticized \"Persona 3 Portable\" for \"losing some of its polish\", it was as acclaimed as \"FES\", receiving an 89 out of 100 from Metacritic, making it the third best reviewed PSP game on the website. It was praised for, despite having been released twice already, being an adventure worth playing again. This was echoed by GamesRadar, IGN, 1UP.com and \"GamePro\". It received a score of 32/40 from \"Famitsu\"; one reviewer wrote that the remake includes \"enough differences in the Social Links to make it fun even for old players.\", and perfect scores from websites such as Destructoid and \"GamePro\". GameTrailers went on to nominate the game for \"Best PSP Game\" in their awards, losing to \"\" and \"Best RPG\", losing to \"Mass Effect 2\". Three websites specific to coverage of RPGs honored it in annual award postings, namely RPGamer (Best Re-release), RPGFan (Best Traditional RPG on Handheld), and RPGLand (Best Port).\n\nShane Bettenhausen considered the inclusion of Evokers \"a ballsy and shocking move\" on the part of Atlus, but felt their inclusion created \"an edgy sensibility that fits perfectly with the overall dark tone\" of the game. Similarly, Joe Juba thought the concept fit \"perfectly\" with the game's \"dark tone\". Jeff Haynes found the animations of characters using their Evokers to be \"intriguing and shocking at the same time\". While previewing \"Persona 3\" for GameSpot, Kevin VanOrd said that the continued use of Evokers \"never gets old and it never gets any less awesome to watch, and considering that you could play this for fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty hours or more, that's saying something.\" Atlus U.S.A. did not remove the Evokers from \"Persona 3\" for its worldwide release, despite the possible controversy. Nich Maragos said on 1UP.com's \"Retronauts\" podcast that the company did not receive any criticism for their inclusion, however. \"There was never any Jack Thompson-ing…we didn't get any letters from concerned parents.\"\n\n\"Persona 3\" was named the best role-playing game of 2006 by \"Famitsu\", and of 2007 by GameSpot and RPGFan. GameSpy gave the title its 2007 PS2 RPG of the Year award and placed it second in the 2007 PS2 Top 10 Games of the Year. IGN placed \"Persona 3 FES\" fifteenth in their feature \"The Top 25 PS2 Games of All Time\". 1UP.com's 2007 game awards, which ran in the March 2008 issue of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\", included \"Persona 3\", given the award for \"Most controversial game that created no controversy\". In 2010, \"Persona 3\" ended up coming first place in RPGamer's \"Top RPGs of the Decade\" list, and second place in RPGFan's \"Top 20 RPGs of the Past Decade\" list behind \"\" & \"\". According to IGN's Top 100 RPGs of All Time, \"Persona 3\" ranks 69th.\n\n is an add-on disc for \"Persona 3\" containing updates to the original game, as well as a new epilogue in which the player controls Aigis. \"FES\" was released in Japan on April 19, 2007, as both a stand-alone game, and with the \"director's cut\" version of \"Persona 3\". Overseas, the combined edition was published in North America by Atlus U.S.A. on April 22, 2008, and in Europe by Koei on October 17, 2008. According to the game's director, Katsura Hashino, the subtitle \"Fes\" is derived from the word \"festival\". This version of the game was re-released as a PS2 Classic on PSN for the PS3 in 2012. Players of the original Persona 3 are given the option of transferring certain data from the original version's save file, such as the player's compendium, social-related stats, and maxed Social Link items.\n\nThe expansion to \"Persona 3\", in addition to adding new content to the main game (referred to as \"The Journey\", or \"Episode Yourself\" in the Japanese version), includes an epilogue to the original story titled \"The Answer\" (\"Episode Aegis\" in the Japanese version). The core gameplay of The Answer is similar to that of The Journey, although the Social Link system has been removed, and the player does not attend school.\n\n, an enhanced port of \"Persona 3\" for the PlayStation Portable, was released in Japan on November 1, 2009, and released in North America on July 6, 2010. It came out to most of Europe on April 29, 2011 and the UK on April 28, 2011. The announcement in \"Famitsū\" revealed that the player would have the option to play as a female character. This selection alters some aspects of the story: the first Persona gained by the Protagonist, Orpheus, has a different appearance; Igor's assistant in the Velvet Room, Elizabeth, can be replaced with a male equivalent named Theodore. The gender choice also alters some aspects of the Social Link stories. In addition to the new playable character, there are two new difficulty levels to select from alongside the original game's three. \"Persona 3 Portable\" only includes the story of the original \"Persona 3\"; however, general changes have been made to the plot, regardless of character choice.\n\nThe game's revised battle system draws on elements added in \"Persona 3\"'s successor, \"Persona 4\". In combat, the player is able to directly control every character, as an alternative to utilizing the game's artificial intelligence. The ability to guard has been added, and allies will take fatal attacks for the Protagonist, preventing his or her death. Outside of Tartarus, instead of navigating the game world by directly controlling the Protagonist, the player guides an on-screen cursor around an area, allowing interaction with characters and objects. The game includes the voice acting of the original game, although characters are not shown in the world, instead being represented by on-screen portraits. In addition, the anime cutscenes seen in the original \"Persona 3\" were replaced to feature in-game graphics. Shoji Meguro composed 10 new musical tracks for \"Persona 3 Portable\"; with the majority of them being written for the female protagonist's playthrough. Several cameos of characters from \"Persona 4\" have been added to \"Persona 3 Portable\", including Yukiko Amagi, a playable character from \"Persona 4\". It also features a cameo from Vincent Brooks, the protagonist of \"Catherine\".\n\n\"\" is a dungeon crawler RPG developed for the Nintendo 3DS. It features both the characters from \"Persona 3\" and the ones from \"Persona 4\", and also includes some gameplay elements from the \"Etrian Odyssey\" series. The \"Persona 3\" campaign starts two weeks before October 4. Just as SEES prepares to enter Tartarus that night, they are pulled into the Velvet Room and sent to a school they have never seen before. While searching the area they meet the amnesiacs Zen and Rei and the Investigation Team, the latter of whom have also been pulled into the strange school: they must now work together in order to escape. The game was released in Japan on June 5, 2014, North America on November 25, 2014 and Europe on November 28, 2014.\n\nA rhythm game based on the setting and characters of \"Persona 3\", \"\", was released in Japan in May 2018, and will be released worldwide in December 2018.\n\nSeveral figurines of the characters have been produced by Kotobukiya, a Japanese collectible toy company. They include the Protagonist of the game, Aigis, Mitsuru, and Akihiko. The figurines have interchangeable parts, such as an Evoker or weapon, which can be stored in the base. Alter, another Japanese company that specializes in collectibles, has also released 1:8 scale figurines of Elizabeth, Aigis, and Mitsuru. The headphones worn by the Protagonist are sold by Audio-Technica, model ATH-EM700(Japan-only version). Atlus collaborated with the Japanese publishing company Enterbrain to publish the game's multiple strategy guides and an artbook detailing character and setting designs.\n\nUdon announced that they will release an English edition of Enterbrain's \"Persona 3: Official Design Works\" artbook to be released June 10, 2012.\n\nA manga adaptation of \"Persona 3\" written and illustrated by Shūji Sogabe was published monthly in the Japanese magazine \"Dengeki Maoh\" until it went on hiatus once \"Persona 4\" was released. However, it began serialization again starting November 7, 2011, moving from \"Dengeki Maoh\" to Atlus's official \"Persona Magazine.\"\n\nAs of February 2017, 11 volumes have been released.\n\nA non-canonical spin-off anime to \"Persona 3\" titled \"\" aired in Japan starting in January 2008 and ran for twenty-six episodes. Taking place ten years after the events of the game, the anime features Akihiko as a secondary character. NIS America licensed the show and released it in two half-season deluxe edition box sets with the original Japanese audio track in 2010.\n\nIn June 2012, the end of the newly released \"Persona 4\" film announced that \"Persona 3\" would receive a film series adaptation. It was produced by AIC ASTA (first film) and A-1 Pictures (films two through four). The first film was directed by Noriaki Akitaya, the second by Tomohisa Naguchi, and the third and fourth by Keitaro Motonaga. The main Japanese voice actors from the original game reprised their roles in the film series.\n\nSeveral series of radio dramas based on \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 3: FES\" have been released in Japan. \"Persona 3 Drama CD: A Certain Day of Summer\" features an original story voiced by the game's original cast. \"Persona 3 Drama CD Vol. 2 -Moonlight-\" links the story of \"Persona 3\" and the epilogue released with \"Persona 3: FES\". From February to June 2008, a series of character dramas were released as five CDs. The volumes respectively focus on the Protagonist and Ryoji; Junpei and Chidori; Fuuka, Ken, and Aigis; Yukari and Mitsuru; and Akihiko, Shinjiro, and Koromaru. In early 2009, a two-volume side story about Mitsuru was released.\n\n\"Persona 3\" was adapted into five live stage musicals, with the first one performed in 2014. The series of plays were first announced in August 2013 and were written by Kumagai and Kotora Kagurazuka, with music by Meguro. The plays included separate shows for both the male and female protagonists, who were named Sakuya Shiomi and Kotone Shiomi, and had minor dialogue and scenes unique to each protagonist. The plays starred Shouta Aoi as Sakuya, Kana Asumi as Kotone, Maho Tomita as Yukari, Genki Okawa as Junpei, Yuki Fujiwara as Akihiko, Asami Tano as Mitsuru, Marina Tanoue as Fuuka, ZAQ as Aigis, and Waku Sakaguchi and Tomonori Suzuki as Ken. The musicals were also broadcast live on Niconico and a behind-the-scenes special aired on Tokyo MX.\n\nThe first play, \"Persona 3: The Weird Masquerade: The Blue Awakening\" ran from January 8–12, 2014, at Theater G Rosso, and was given a home release on May 14, 2014. \"The Blue Awakening\" followed events up to Fuuka's inclusion into the party.\n\n\"The Blue Awakening\" was followed up with a sequel, \"Persona 3: The Weird Masquerade: The Ultramarine Labyrinth\", which ran from September 16–24, 2014, at Theater 1010 and was given a home release on January 28, 2015. The play follows in-game events from July to early November. Richard Eisenbeis from \"Kotaku\" reviewed the play favorably, approving of its casting and special effects, but felt that the musical numbers were \"out of place\" and the protagonists had \"zero personality.\"\n\nA third musical, titled \"Persona 3: The Weird Masquerade: The Bismuth Crystals\" ran from June 5–13, 2015, and was given a home release on September 30, 2015. The fourth and fifth stage plays, \"Persona 3: The Weird Masquerade: Act 4: Indigo Pledge\" and \"Persona 3: The Weird Masquerade: Final Act: Beyond the Blue Sky\", ran from April 14–23, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "46915582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46915582", "title": "Ph7cms", "text": "Ph7cms\n\npH7CMS (formerly known as pH7 Social Dating CMS) is an open source Social Dating software that allows creation of online communities and social dating services.\n\npH7CMS is written in PHP 5.6, is object-oriented and uses the MVC pattern (Model-View-Controller).\n\nThe software is based on the homemade \"pH7Framework\" and is designed with the KISS principle in mind. For better flexibility, the software uses PDO (PHP Data Objects) abstraction which allows the choice of the database. The principle of development is DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) aimed at reducing repetition of information of all kinds (not duplicate code).\n\nIt also wants to be fast, low-resource-intensive, extremely powerful and very secure.\n\npH7CMS is distributed in two distinct packages. One free with less features, no update/upgrade script and only for personal sites and another one sold for commercial sites, including premium features and update/upgrade scripts.\n\n\npH7CMS is included with 31 natives modules\n\n\npH7CMS Core uses its homemade \"pH7Tpl\" and the installer uses \"Smarty\". In addition, pH7CMS is also included with the \"PH7Xsl\", a XSLT PHP template engine.\n\nIn almost each version, the installation of the software is improved and is easier. pH7CMS is also included with a Web setup wizard and is also available on Softaculous \n\nRecommended Social Networking Software by BestHostingSearch \n\n"}
{"id": "4644634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4644634", "title": "Rhetorical modes", "text": "Rhetorical modes\n\nRhetorical modes (also known as modes of discourse) describe the variety, conventions, and purposes of the major kinds of language-based communication, particularly writing and speaking. Four of the most common rhetorical modes and their purpose are narration, description, exposition, and argumentation. The first codification of these rhetorical modes was by Samuel P. Newman in \"A Practical System of Rhetoric\" in 1827. \n\nThe purpose of narration is to tell a story or narrate an event or series of events. This writing mode frequently uses the tools of descriptive writing. Narration is an especially useful tool for sequencing or putting details and information into some kind of logical order, usually chronological. Working with narration helps us see clear sequences separate from all other mental functions. Examples include:\n\nThe purpose of description is to re-create, invent, or visually present a person, place, event, or action so that the reader can picture that which is being described. Descriptive writing can be found in the other rhetorical modes. Examples include:\n\nExpository writing is a type of writing where the purpose is to explain, inform, or even describe. It is considered to be one of the four most common rhetorical modes.\n\nThe purpose of expository writing is to explain and analyze information by presenting an idea, relevant evidence, and appropriate discussion. In narrative contexts (such as history and fiction), exposition provides background information to teach or entertain. In other nonfiction contexts (such as technical communication), the purpose is to teach and inform. Examples include:\n\nThe purpose of argumentation (also called \"persuasive writing\") is to prove the validity of an idea, or point of view, by presenting sound reasoning, discussion, and argument to thoroughly convince the reader. Persuasive writing/Persuasion is a type of argumentation with the additional aim to urge the reader to take some form of action. Examples include:\n\nAnother form of persuasive rhetoric is satirical rhetoric, or using humor in order to make a point about some aspect of life or society. Perhaps the most famous example is Jonathan Swift's \"A Modest Proposal\".\n\nEach fiction-writing mode has its own purposes and conventions. Agent and author Evan Marshall identifies five fiction-writing modes: action, summary, dialogue, feelings/thoughts, and background. Author and writing-instructor Jessica Page Morrell lists six delivery modes for fiction-writing: action, exposition, description, dialogue, summary, and transition. Author Peter Selgin refers to \"methods\", including action, dialogue, thoughts, summary, scene, and description.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3836019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3836019", "title": "Robert Harrison Blake", "text": "Robert Harrison Blake\n\nRobert Harrison Blake is a fictional character in the Cthulhu Mythos. The character is the creation of H. P. Lovecraft and appears in his short story \"The Haunter of the Dark\" (1935).\n\nIn Lovecraft's tale, Robert Blake is a young author and painter from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He comes to Providence, Rhode Island and moves into an apartment on College Street. While there, he completes five short stories: \"The Burrower Beneath\", \"The Feaster from the Stars\", \"In the Vale of Pnath\", \"Shaggai\", and \"The Stairs in the Crypt\". He becomes obsessed with a deserted church on Federal Hill that he can see from his window. He later learns of a cult that was once active there, the Church of Starry Wisdom. His investigation of this cult inevitably leads to his death.\n\nLovecraft based Robert Blake on one of his correspondents, the teenage Robert Bloch who had just begun his career as a writer of horror and science fiction. In the story, Lovecraft even had Blake residing at Bloch's real-life address at the time: 620 E. Knapp Street, Milwaukee.\n\nThe development of the Blake character has a notable backstory. The character first appeared as the unnamed narrator of Bloch's \"The Shambler from the Stars\" (1935). Before he wrote the tale, Bloch thought it would be amusing to kill off a character based on Lovecraft. Lovecraft consented to the idea and gave his permission in the form of a satirical letter, signed by Lovecraft himself and \"attested\" by several of his creations: Abdul Alhazred, Gespard du Nord, Frederich von Juntz, and the \"Tcho-Tcho Lama of Leng\" (possibly referring to the High Priest Not to Be Described). The body of the letter appears as follows:\nThis is to certify that Robert Bloch, Esq., of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, U.S.A.—reincarnation of Meinheer Ludvig Prinn, author of De Vermis Mysteriis—is fully authorised to portray, murder, annihilate, disintegrate, transfigure, metamorphose, or otherwise manhandle the undersigned in the tale entitled \"The Shambler from the Stars\".\nIn Bloch's story, the Lovecraft-based character becomes the ill-fated victim of an invisible, vampiric monster summoned from the depths of outer space. Lovecraft was delighted by the story and returned the favor by killing off Robert Bloch, a.k.a. Robert Blake, in \"The Haunter of the Dark\". Years later, Bloch wrote a sequel to \"The Haunter of the Dark\" entitled \"The Shadow from the Steeple\" (1950) in which Robert Blake's death is investigated by his friend Edmund Fiske.\n\nRobert M. Price believes that Robert Blake is not merely a counterpart to Robert Bloch, but is actually a combination of three different people: Bloch, Lovecraft himself, and Clark Ashton Smith. As one example, Price notes that the dwelling that Blake occupies in Providence parallels Lovecraft's own apartment. Furthermore, Blake, like Smith, is a skilled painter and produces bizarre \"studies of nameless, unhuman monsters, and profoundly alien, non-terrestrial landscapes.\" Lovecraft sometimes mentioned Smith's art in his own stories whenever he wanted to feature a weird setting or the reproduction of one. In \"The Haunter of the Dark\", however, Price believes that Lovecraft took the notion one step further and depicted Smith himself as one of the three aspects of Robert Blake.\n\nOther Mythos authors have attempted to supply text for Blake's fictional titles, perhaps writing them as Blake himself might have. Robert M. Price argues that at least three of these titles have already been written. First, \"The Feaster from the Stars\" is obviously a parallel to Bloch's \"The Shambler from the Stars\" (a title Lovecraft suggested to Bloch). Second, \"The Stairs in the Crypt\" appears to be a cross between two of Bloch's short stories: \"The Grinning Ghoul\" and \"The Secret in the Crypt\". Lastly, \"The Burrower Beneath\" is similar to \"The Blasphemy Beneath\", an early story that Bloch sent to Lovecraft for review.\n\nPrice believes that Blake's \"In the Vale of Pnath\" is another name for Lovecraft's \"The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath\" (1926), since in the story Randolph Carter is carried to the Underworld and soon realizes that he is \"in the vale of Pnath\".\n\n\"Shaggai\" may parallel Lovecraft's \"The Whisperer in Darkness\" (1931). Since in \"The Haunter of the Dark\" Lovecraft says that Shaggai lies beyond Yuggoth, he is adding yet another planet to the solar system, essentially a new version of Yuggoth. Since Lovecraft often repackaged his Mythos creations in the revision stories he wrote for other authors, Price believes that \"Shaggai\" is the kind of story that Lovecraft would have ghostwritten if \"Robert Blake\" had been his client.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "457212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457212", "title": "Sexual misconduct", "text": "Sexual misconduct\n\nSexual misconduct is an umbrella term for any misconduct of a sexual nature that is of lesser offense than felony sexual assault (such as rape and molestation), particularly where the situation is normally non-sexual and therefore unusual for sexual behavior, or where there is some aspect of personal power or authority that makes sexual behavior inappropriate. A common theme, and the reason for the term \"misconduct\", is that these violations occur during work or in a situation of a power imbalance. It is a legal concept to frame offenses which are non-criminal but nevertheless violating of another person's personal boundary in the area of sexuality and intimate personal relationships. \n\nSexual misconduct is often perpetrated against an individual without their consent or where the power dynamics of the relationship are being challenged in an effort to redefine the nature or form of consent necessary in a given circumstance. The alleged misconduct can be of various degrees, such as exposure, assault, aggressive come-ons, pleading, or even inattentiveness to nonverbal cues of discomfort. The \"definition of sexual misconduct is far from clear\" and it is a \"lay term, sometimes used in institutional policies or by professional bodies\", to deal with cases marked by power imbalance, coercion, and predatory behaviour.\"\n\nIn legal sense, for a person in a position of authority it includes in particular any sexual activity between them and one of their subordinates. This commonly includes teachers and their students, clergy and their congregants, doctors and their patients, and employers and their employees. While such activity is usually not explicitly illegal, it is often against professional ethical codes. For example, a teacher may be fired and a doctor may have their medical license revoked because of sexual misconduct. In addition, the person in the subordinate position may allege sexual harassment. The University of Iowa defines sexual misconduct as \"...unwelcome behavior of a sexual nature that is committed without consent or by force, intimidation, coercion, or manipulation.\" \n\nEntering a sexual relationship with a subordinate, even when the contact is initiated by the latter, is considered unethical by some because of the subordinate's vulnerability to the superior and the inequality of power that characterizes the relationship. In the case of the doctor-patient relationship, having a sexual relationship with the patient even after the professional relationship has concluded is considered problematic for the physician because of the potential for the patient's continuing dependence on and transference towards the physician. Therefore, sexual relationships with former patients are considered unethical by the medical profession when physicians “use or exploit the trust, knowledge, emotions or influence derived from the previous professional relationship” in any way. By contrast, legal ethics permit sexual relations with former client and, in California, with current clients as well so long as the sex is consensual and is not rendered in exchange for legal services. \n\nSome activities which are not strictly erotic, e.g. mooning (exposing the buttocks), streaking (running naked through a public area) and skinny dipping (swimming naked), are sometimes also categorized as sexual misconduct. Despite these opinions, others believe that sexual relations in workplace settings is not unethical including between boss and employee. Many companies do not prohibit so-called fraternization but instead recognize the difference between consensual dating and improper behavior.\n\nAccording to Joanne Laucius from the \"Ottawa Citizen\", the \"definition of sexual misconduct is far from clear\" and the \"word ‘misconduct’ also lacks precision — it can be used as a catch-all for all kinds of behaviour, often obscuring what actually happened\". Laucius states that the terms \"sexual violence or sexual harassment and assault are much more specific terms that convey the nature of the allegations.\" Elaine Craig, an associate professor in the Schulich School of Law at Dalhousie University, states that \"[s]exual misconduct is a lay term, sometimes used in institutional policies or by professional bodies. It covers an array of problematic sexual behaviour including sexual harassment, sexual assault and sexual abuse. Two of these terms have specific (and different) legal meanings: Sexual assault has a specific meaning in the criminal law context, unlike sexual misconduct, which may cover both criminal and non-criminal conduct.\"\n\nElizabeth Sheehy, the Shirley Greenberg Chair for Women and the Legal Profession at the University of Ottawa, states that \"[s]exual misconduct is a social issue and not a fixed line — it shifts as women gain access to economic and political equality. It’s not found under criminal law, in human rights codes, or collective agreements. It might be found under professional disciplinary codes.\" She states that \"we don’t have a consensus on it, either\", \"...except that there are three key considerations. First, a power imbalance. Second, coercion, whether implicit or explicit. Third, predatory behaviour.\" Ally Crockford, a public educator at the Ottawa Rape Crisis Centre, states that \"[s]exual misconduct is... a catch-all for behaviour that is not OK, but it’s unclear how it should be classified. It could be any number of things — someone is made to feel uncomfortable, or they feel they are being watched or looked at in a certain way.\"\n\nMichelle Cottle wrote in \"The Atlantic\" that the \"...almost infinite shades of creepy misbehavior on display are challenging the legal and cultural categories used to describe them\", as this issue is, in \"...some ways, uncharted territory\", making it \"...hard to tell how the new lines will be drawn, much less where.\" Cottle states that \"[m]illennials and younger Gen Xers seem to have a broader definition of what constitutes harassment as well as less hesitation about discussing their experiences\".\n\nA literature review of educator sexual misconduct published by the US Department of Education found that 9.6% of high school students have experienced some form of sexual misconduct. In 4% to 43% of cases, the abusers were women. Black, Hispanic, and Native American Indian children are at greatest risk for sexual abuse. Also at increased risk are children with disabilities; the reason for this may be their greater need for individual attention and their possible problems with communicating.\n\nChildren who have been victims of educator sexual misconduct usually have low self-esteem, and they are likely to develop suicidal ideation and depression. Because the abuser was a person the child was encouraged to trust, they may experience a sense of betrayal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21759405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21759405", "title": "Solomon curve", "text": "Solomon curve\n\n]\n\nThe Solomon curve is a graphical representation of the collision rate of automobiles as a function of their speed compared to the average vehicle speed on the same road. The curve was based on research conducted by David Solomon in the late 1950s and published in 1964. Subsequent research suggests significant biases in the Solomon study, which may cast doubt on its findings.\n\nIn 1964, Solomon researched the relationship between average speed and the collision rates of automobiles and plotted the results. While others have attempted to quantify the relationship between average speed and collision rates, Solomon's work was both \"the earliest and best known\". Solomon conducted a comprehensive study of more than 10,000 collision-involved drivers and their vehicles and how other roadway, driver, and vehicle characteristics affect the probability of being involved in a crash. He found that the probability of being involved in a crash per vehicle-mile as a function of on-road vehicle speeds follows a U-shaped curve with speed values around the median speed having the lowest probability of being in a crash. Although typically called the Solomon curve, the U-shaped curve has also been referred to as the Crash Risk Curve.\n\nIn 1968, Julie Cirillo conducted a similar study of 2,000 vehicles on interstate highways that addressed speed variation’s impact on crashes that involved two or more vehicles. The Cirillo data produced a U-shaped curve similar to the Solomon curve. The Research Triangle Institute conducted a study in 1970 where data was collected on 114 crashes involving 216 vehicles on a state highway in Indiana to address these concerns by (1) combining automated, embedded speed-monitoring stations with trained on-scene crash investigators, and (2) distinguishing data on vehicles slowing to negotiate a turn from vehicles moving slowly in the flow of traffic. Reporting on these results in 1971, academics West and Dunn confirmed the findings of Solomon and Cirillo, but found that crashes involving turning vehicles accounted for 44 percent of all crashes observed in the study and that excluding these crashes from the analysis greatly attenuated the factors that created the U-shape of the Solomon curve.\n\nIn 1991, Fildes, Rumbold, and Leening collected self-reported crash data from 707 motorists in Australia with fewer than 200 reporting that they had been in a collision but, unlike Solomon and Cirillo, the researchers found no relationship between slower speeds and increased crash involvement. Notwithstanding the many studies over the years, in testimony before the Ohio Senate Highways and Transportation Committee on June 10, 2003, Julie Cirillo, Former Assistant Administrator and Chief Safety Officer for the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), testified that \"up to the present time there has been no evidence to alter Solomon’s original finding that variance from the mean operating speed is a major contributor to accidents\".\n\nIn July 2001, Kloeden CN, Ponte G and McLean AJ of the Road Accident Research Unit, Adelaide University quantified the relationship, \"... between free travelling speed and the risk of involvement in a casualty crash in 80 km/h or greater speed limit zones in rural South Australia\" using a case control study design. They found, \"..the risk of involvement in a casualty crash increased more than exponentially with increasing free travelling speed above the mean traffic speed and that travelling speeds below the mean traffic speed were associated with a lower risk of being involved in a casualty crash.\" Outlining past research in this area, they suggest that, in the Solomon research, \"Both the numerator (number of crashes in a particular speed band) and the denominator (number of vehicle-miles travelled in that same speed band) may have been quite inaccurate for relatively low speeds.\" \n\nHauer provided a theoretical foundation for the Solomon curve in 1971—“for example, if I drive at 45 mph, while the median of the pack is 60 mph, how many cars will pass me in an hour and hence have a chance to collide with me?”—that showed that the theoretical distribution was nearly identical to the Solomon curve.\n\nWhile Solomon’s research focused on speed deviation, and not speed per se, some commentators have cited Solomon’s research to support the conclusion that raw speed and crash risk are not directly related. On the other hand, while recognizing Solomon's research reveals the importance to safety of variability around average speed, Leonard Evans concludes in \"Traffic Safety and the Driver\" that control of absolute driver speed, and not variability, should be the primary focus of traffic safety regulation. Both views support the fact that the seminal research underlying the Solomon curve shows that the greater the difference between a driver’s speed and the average speed of traffic—both above and below that average speed—the greater the likelihood of involvement in a crash. Consequently, many states and safety organizations advise drivers to “drive with the flow of traffic”.\n"}
{"id": "9605548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9605548", "title": "Sundress", "text": "Sundress\n\nA sundress is a dress intended to be worn in warm weather. Typically, it is an informal or casual dress in a lightweight fabric, most commonly cotton, and usually loose-fitting. It is a sleeveless dress, typically with a wide neckline and thin shoulder straps. A sundress is typically worn without a layering top and is not typically worn over a blouse, sweater or t-shirt. \n\nThe sundress was popularized by Lilly Pulitzer in the 1960s.\n\nThe sundress provides a feminine look that is more comfortable than a skirt and blouse or another sort of dress. \n\nSundresses can be of any neckline and hemline, including modest styles and a variety of patterns. It is typically sleeveless and collarless with a wide neckline and thin shoulder straps.\n\nSundresses can use a variety of closure types, including back zippers, side zippers, front buttons, back buttons, back ties, pullover or other closure styles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56110532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56110532", "title": "Timeline of BBC Local Radio", "text": "Timeline of BBC Local Radio\n\nThis is a Timeline of BBC Local Radio\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14432162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14432162", "title": "Training camp", "text": "Training camp\n\nA training camp is an organized period in which military personnel or athletes participate in a rigorous and focused schedule of training in order to learn or improve skills.\n"}
{"id": "858114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858114", "title": "Vril", "text": "Vril\n\nThe Coming Race is a novel by Edward Bulwer-Lytton, published anonymously in 1871. It has also been published as Vril, the Power of the Coming Race.\nSome readers have believed the account of a superior subterranean master race and the energy-form called \"Vril\", at least in part; some theosophists, notably Helena Blavatsky, William Scott-Elliot, and Rudolf Steiner, accepted the book as based on occult truth, in part. One 1960 book, \"The Morning of the Magicians\", suggested that a secret Vril Society existed in Weimar Berlin. However, there is no evidence for the existence of such a society.\n\nThe original, British edition of \"The Coming Race\" was published anonymously in May 1871, by Blackwood and Sons of Edinburgh and London. (Blackwood published four more \"editions\" in 1871.) Anonymous American and Canadian editions were published in August, as \"The Coming Race, or The New Utopia\", by Francis B. Felt & Co. in New York and by Copp, Clark & Co. in Toronto. <br>\nLate in 1871 Bulwer-Lytton was known to be the author. Samuel Butler's \"Erewhon\" was also published anonymously, in March 1872, and Butler suspected that its initial success was due to being taken as a \"Coming Race\" sequel by Bulwer-Lytton. It was revealed that Butler was the writer in the 25 May 1872 issue of the \"Athenaeum\"; as Butler was unknown at the time, sales dropped by 90 percent.\n\nThe novel centres on a young, independent, unnamed, wealthy traveller (the narrator), who visits a friend, a mining engineer. They explore a natural chasm in a mine which has been exposed by an exploratory shaft. The narrator reaches the bottom of the chasm safely, but the rope breaks and his friend is killed. The narrator finds his way into a subterranean world occupied by beings who seem to resemble angels. He befriends the first being he meets, who guides him around a city that is reminiscent of ancient Egyptian architecture. The explorer meets his host's wife, two sons and daughter who learn to speak English by way of a makeshift dictionary during which the narrator unconsciously teaches them the language. His guide comes towards him, and he and his daughter, Zee, explain who they are and how they function.\n\nThe hero discovers that these beings, who call themselves Vril-ya, have great telepathic and other parapsychological abilities, such as being able to transmit information, get rid of pain, and put others to sleep. The narrator is offended by the idea that the Vril-ya are better adapted to learn about him than he is to learn about them. Nevertheless, the guide (who turns out to be a magistrate) and his son Taee behave kindly towards him.\n\nThe narrator soon discovers that the Vril-ya are descendants of an antediluvian civilization called the Ana, who live in networks of subterranean caverns linked by tunnels. Originally surface dwellers, they had fled underground thousands of years ago to escape a massive flood and gained greater power by facing and dominating the harsh conditions of the Earth. The place where the narrator descended housed 12,000 families, one of the largest groups. Their society was a technologically supported Utopia, chief among their tools being an \"all-permeating fluid\" called \"Vril\", a latent source of energy that the spiritually elevated hosts are able to master through training of their will, to a degree that depended on their hereditary constitution. This mastery gave them access to an extraordinary force that could be controlled at will. It is this fluid that the Vril-ya employed to communicate with the narrator. The powers of the Vril included the ability to heal, change, and destroy beings and things; the destructive powers in particular were powerful, allowing a few young Vril-ya children to destroy entire cities if necessary.\n\nMen (called An, pronounced \"Arn\") and women (called Gy, pronounced \"Gee\") have equal rights. The women are stronger and larger than the men. The women are also the pursuing party of romantic relationships. They marry for just three years, after which the men choose whether to remain married, or be single. The female may then pursue a new husband. However, they seldom make the choice to remarry.\n\nTheir religion posits the existence of a superior being but does not dwell on his nature. The Vril-ya believe in the permanence of life, which according to them is not destroyed but merely changes form.\n\nThe narrator adopts the attire of his hosts and begins also to adopt their customs. Zee falls in love with him and tells her father, who orders Taee to kill him with his staff. Eventually both Taee and Zee conspire against such a command, and Zee leads the narrator through the same chasm which he first descended. Returning to the surface, he warns that in time the Vril-ya will run out of habitable space underground and will claim the surface of the Earth, destroying mankind in the process, if necessary.\n\nThe uses of Vril in the novel amongst the Vril-ya vary from destruction to healing. According to Zee, the daughter of the narrator's host, Vril can be changed into the mightiest agency over all types of matter, both animate and inanimate. It can destroy like lightning or replenish life, heal, or cure. It is used to rend ways through solid matter. Its light is said to be steadier, softer and healthier than that from any flammable material. It can also be used as a power source for animating mechanisms. Vril can be harnessed by use of the Vril staff or mental concentration.\n\nA Vril staff is an object in the shape of a wand or a staff which is used as a channel for Vril. The narrator describes it as hollow with \"stops\", \"keys\", or \"springs\" in which Vril can be altered, modified, or directed to either destroy or heal. The staff is about the size of a walking stick but can be lengthened or shortened according to the user's preferences. The appearance and function of the Vril staff differs according to gender, age, etc. Some staves are more potent for destruction; others, for healing. The staves of children are said to be much simpler than those of sages; in those of wives and mothers, the destructive part is removed while the healing aspects are emphasised.\n\nThe book was quite popular in the late 19th century, and for a time the word \"Vril\" came to be associated with \"life-giving elixirs\". The best known use of \"Vril\" in this context is in the name of Bovril (a blend word of Bovine and Vril). From 5 to 7 March 1891, there was even a \"Vril-ya Bazaar\" held at the Royal Albert Hall in London.\n\nRecent research has shown that Bulwer-Lytton developed his ideas about \"Vril\" against the background of his long preoccupation with occult natural forces, which were widely discussed at that time, especially in relation to animal magnetism or, later, spiritualism. In his earlier novels \"Zanoni\" (1842) and \"A Strange Story\" (1862), Bulwer-Lytton had discussed electricity and other \"material agents\" as the possible natural causes for occult phenomena. In \"The Coming Race\", those ideas are continued in the context of a satirical critique of contemporary philosophical, scientific, and political currents. In a letter to his friend John Forster, Bulwer-Lytton explained his motives:\n\nBulwer-Lytton has been regarded as an \"initiate\" or \"adept\" by esotericists, especially because of his Rosicrucian novel \"Zanoni\" (1842). However, there is no historical evidence that suggests that Bulwer-Lytton can be seen as an occultist, or that he has been the member of any kind of esoteric association. Instead, it has been shown that Bulwer-Lytton has been \"esotericized\" since the 1870s. In 1870, the Societas Rosicruciana in Anglia appointed Bulwer-Lytton as her \"Grand Patron.\" Although Bulwer-Lytton complained about this by letter in 1872, the claim has never been revoked. Other claims, such as his membership in a German masonic lodge \"Zur aufgehenden Morgenröthe\", have been proven wrong.\n\nThose claims, as well as the recurrent esoteric topics in Bulwer-Lytton's works, convinced some commentators that the fictionalised Vril was based on a real magical force. Helena Blavatsky, the founder of Theosophy, endorsed this view in her book \"Isis Unveiled\" (1877) and again in \"The Secret Doctrine\" (1888). In Blavatsky, the Vril power and its attainment by a superhuman elite are worked into a mystical doctrine of race. However, the character of the subterranean people was transformed. Instead of potential conquerors, they were benevolent (if mysterious) spiritual guides. Blavatsky's recurrent homage to Bulwer-Lytton and the Vril force has exerted a lasting influence on other esoteric authors.\n\nWhen the theosophist William Scott-Elliot describes life in Atlantis in , the aircraft of the Atlanteans are propelled by Vril-force. His books are still published by the Theosophical Society. Scott-Elliot's description of Atlantean aircraft has been identified as an early inspiration for authors who have related the Vril force to UFOs after World War II.\n\nGeorge Bernard Shaw read the book and was attracted to the idea of Vril, according to Michael Holroyd's biography of him.\n\nFrench writer Jules Lermina included a Vril-powered flying machine in his .\n\nA stage adaptation of the book was written by journalist David Christie Murray and magician Nevil Maskelyne. The production premiered at Saint George's Hall in London on 2 January 1905. Both Nevil Maskelyne and his father John Nevil Maskelyne collaborated on the special effects for the play. The play did not meet with success and closed after a run of eight weeks.\n\nWilly Ley was a German rocket engineer who had emigrated to the United States in 1937. In 1947, he published an article titled \"Pseudoscience in Naziland\" in the magazine \"Astounding Science Fiction\". He wrote that the high popularity of irrational convictions in Germany at that time explained how National Socialism could have fallen on such fertile ground. Among various pseudoscientific groups he mentions one that looked for the Vril: \n\"The next group was literally founded upon a novel. That group which I think called itself 'Wahrheitsgesellschaft' — Society for Truth —and which was more or less localised in Berlin, devoted its spare time looking for Vril.\"\n\nThe existence of a Vril Society was alleged in 1960 by Jacques Bergier and Louis Pauwels. In their book \"The Morning of the Magicians\", they claimed that the Vril-Society was a secret community of occultists in pre-Nazi Berlin that was a sort of inner circle of the Thule Society. They also thought that it was in close contact with the English group known as the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. The Vril information takes up about a tenth of the volume, the remainder of which details other esoteric speculations, but the authors fail to clearly explain whether this section is fact or fiction. Historians have shown that there has been no actual historical foundation for the claims of Pauwels and Bergier, and that the article of Willy Ley has only been a vague inspiration for their own ideas. Nevertheless, Pauwels and Bergier have influenced a whole new literary genre dealing with the alleged occult influences on National Socialism which have often been related to the fictional Vril Society.\n\nIn his book \"Monsieur Gurdjieff\", Louis Pauwels claimed that a Vril Society had been founded by General Karl Haushofer, a student of Russian magician and metaphysician Georges Gurdjieff.\n\nThe book of Jacques Bergier and Louis Pauwels was published in German with the title: \"Aufbruch ins dritte Jahrtausend: von der Zukunft der phantastischen Vernunft\" (literally \"Departure into the Third Millennium: The Future of the Fantastic Reason\") in 1969.\n\nIn his book \"Black Sun\", Professor Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke refers to the research of the German author Peter Bahn. Bahn writes in his 1996 essay, \"Das Geheimnis der Vril-Energie\" (\"The Secret of Vril Energy\"), of his discovery of an obscure esoteric group calling itself the \"Reichsarbeitsgemeinschaft\", which revealed itself in a rare 1930 publication \"Vril. Die Kosmische Urkraft\" (Vril, the cosmic elementary power) written by a member of this Berlin-based group, under the pseudonym \"Johannes Täufer\" (German: \"John [the] Baptist\"). Published by the influential astrological publisher, Otto Wilhelm Barth (whom Bahn believes was \"Täufer\"), the 60-page pamphlet says little of the group other than that it was founded in 1925 to study the uses of Vril energy. The German historian Julian Strube has argued that the historical existence of the \"Reichsarbeitsgemeinschaft\" can be regarded as irrelevant to the post-war invention of the Vril Society, as Pauwels and Bergier have developed their ideas without any knowledge of that actual association. Strube has also shown that the Vril force has been irrelevant to the other members of the \"Reichsarbeitsgemeinschaft,\" who were supporters of the theories of the Austrian inventor Karl Schappeller (1875–1947).\n\nAfter World War II, a group referred to by Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke as the Vienna Circle elaborated an esoteric neo-Nazism that contributed to the circulation of the Vril topos in a new context. In their writings, Vril is associated with Nazi UFOs and the Black Sun concept. Julian Strube wrote that a younger generation related to the Tempelhofgesellschaft, has continued the work of the Vienna Circle and exerts a continuous influence on the most common notions of Vril. Those notions are not only popular in neo-Nazi circles but also in movies or computer games, such as \"Iron Sky\", \"Wolfenstein\", and \"Call of Duty\".\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "4504020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4504020", "title": "Weight machine", "text": "Weight machine\n\nA weight machine is an exercise machine used for weight training that uses gravity as the primary source of resistance and a combination of simple machines to convey that resistance to the person using the machine. Each of the simple machines (pulley, lever, wheel, incline) changes the mechanical advantage of the overall machine relative to the weight.\n\nA \"stack machine\"—also called a \"stack\" or \"rack\"—has a set of rectangular plates that are pierced by a vertical bar which has holes drilled in it to accept a pin. Each of the plates has a channel on its underside (or a hole through the middle, as visible in the picture) that aligns with one of the holes. When the pin is inserted through the channel into the hole, all of the plates above the pin rest upon it, and are lifted when the bar rises. The plates below do not rise. This allows the same machine to provide several levels of resistance over the same range of motion with an adjustment that requires very little force to accomplish in itself.\n\nThe means of lifting the bar varies. Some machines have a roller at the top of the bar that sits on a lever. When the lever is raised the bar can go up and the roller moves along the lever, allowing the bar to stay vertical. On some machines the bar is attached to a hinge on the lever, which causes swaying in the bar and the plates as the lever goes up and down. On other machines the bar is attached to a cable or belt, which runs through pulleys or over a wheel. The other end of the cable will either be a handle or strap that the user holds or wraps around some body part, or will be attached to a lever, adding further simple machines to the mechanical chain.\n\nUsually, each plate is marked with a number. On some machines these numbers give the actual weight of the plate and those above it. On some, the number gives the force at the user's actuation point with the machine. And on some machines the number is simply an index counting the number of plates being lifted.\n\nThe early Nautilus machines were a combination of lever and cable machines. They also had optional, fixed elements such as a chinning bar. Universal Gym Equipment pioneered the multi-station style of machines.\n\n\"Plate-loaded machines\" (such as the Smith machine or sled-type leg press) use standard barbell plates instead of captive stacks of plates. They combine a bar-end on which to hang the plates with a number of simple machines to convey the force to the user.\n\nThe plate-loaded machines will often have a very high mechanical advantage, due to the need to make room for large plates over a large range of motion following a path that causes them to converge at one end or the other. Also, the motion will generally not be vertical, and the net resistance is equal to the cosine of the angle at which it is moving relative to vertical.\n\nFor example, consider an incline press machine that is a single-lever machine that has the plates halfway up the lever from the handles to the fulcrum, and begins moving the plates at a 45-degree angle from vertical. The lever will provide a leverage advantage of 2:1, and the incline will have an advantage of 1:√2/2, for a net mechanical advantage of . Thus () of plates will apply to the user only an equaling weight of or a force of at the beginning of the motion.\n\nOn the other end of the spectrum may be a bent-over-row machine that is designed with the user's grip between the plates and the fulcrum. This amplifies the force needed by the user relative to the weight of the plates.\n\n"}
{"id": "9488646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9488646", "title": "Witkey", "text": "Witkey\n\nWitkey (威客; \"Wei Ke\" in Pinyin) is a web-based system whereby users can exchange and purchase services and information, share knowledge and experience in order to save time and money.\nGenerally, requests posted are of the type not easily answered on a general internet search engine and can be of either a personal or professional nature. Students and professionals alike post requests for help with research and even answers to homework. More and more of these requests are being posted on one of the ever-growing number of Witkey websites. There are 338 million internet users (or \"netizens\") in China and this is increasing. The number of recorded Witkey users in China is estimated at 600,000 and is set to increase to 9 million by 2007 according to the Beijing-based CCID Consulting Co.\n\nThe requests are usually answered for a small fee which is worked out in points through the company running the Witkey website itself, which in turn are exchangeable for cash. From RMB 50 for a quick know-how answer to a small technological query to around RMB 1,000 to help a company come up with a logo design, with even higher amounts being paid out for more diverse services such as scientific research and analysis.\n\nThe Witkey industry is predicted to grow as it proves popular with providers and clients alike, results are generally good and although the work can be demanding it can be done from home and the hours are flexible and, since you only need an internet connection to take on work as a Witkey, even those in remote areas are able to get in on the action as all of the services provided are carried out over the internet.\n\nThere are of course some negative points to the system which relies heavily on trust between providers and clients and provisions are seen to be taken to allow for a more comprehensive monitoring of the Witkey system in the future.\n\nA latest research by CCW Research shows that 51.2% interviewees think that the most important task for Witkey sites presently is to improve consumer experience, facilitating customer activities of task publication and worker/works’ match, as well as securing personal privacy etc. Analyst CCW Research points out that Witkey site operators have to treat this problem seriously and work out a series of high-level service on customers’ stand. It is believed that the improvement of consumer experience will help to build a good fame of Witkey website and new customers and Witkey workers will be gathered nonstoply. \nThere are 9.7 percent interviewees expect a better clustering and more detailed classification of Witkey websites as skilled workers are not willing to participate in an irrelevant working project while customers doubt about abilities of Witkey workers.\n\nwitkey(威客; Wei Ke in Pinyin) is a synthesis of word, its literal translation is the key to open the wisdom. Translation is to use the wisdom of the masses to solve the difficulties of a person or a difficult matter, so that the parties out of the woods, get the correct answer in an effective way.\n"}
{"id": "52229715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52229715", "title": "Your papers, please", "text": "Your papers, please\n\n\"Your papers, please\" (or \"Papers, please\") is an expression or trope associated with police state functionaries, as popularized in Hollywood movies featuring Nazi Party officials demanding identification from citizens during random stops or at checkpoints. It is a cultural metaphor for life in a police state.\n\nThe phrase has been used disparagingly in the debate over Real ID and national ID cards in the United States.\n\nIt has also been used to refer to interactions with citizens during police stops and immigration enforcement. Arizona's controversial SB 1070 law requiring people to carry identification was dubbed the \"Papers, Please\" law. The phrase has also been used by the press in relation to a February 2017 incident in which U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents searching for a suspect demanded identification from passengers exiting a domestic flight.\n"}
