{"id": "2055916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2055916", "title": "Amos Wako", "text": "Amos Wako\n\nAmos Wako (born 31 July 1945) is a former Attorney General of Kenya and the first senator for Busia county in Western province of Kenya from 2013 to 2017. Wako won the senatorial seat after defeating former minister of finance Chris Okemo. He won the senator seat on an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) being led by Prime Minister Raila Odinga. \n\nA lawyer by profession Amos Wako served as the Attorney General of the republic of Kenya for 20 years (from 13 May 1991 to 26 August 2011). during his reign as the attorney general Wako was an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya,a member of the International Commission of Jurists, Member Council of Legal Education, was a Member Council of International Bar Association. Legal Advisor to Young men Christian Association (Y.M.C.A.) and Kenya Boy Scouts Association. Member Faculty Board of Law, University of Nairobi Member, O.A.U. Committee of experts on the O.A.U. charter Review Committee and African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights.\nIn 1977 Wako was Awarded fellow International Academy of Trial Lawyers, and 1978 he was Honoured as a life member of Wiltshire Bar Association\n\nWako was born in Kenya. He was educated at Kakamega School, and the Alliance High School and earned a Bachelor of Science in Economics at the University of London, a Bachelor of Laws at the University College of Dar es Salaam, and a Master of Laws at the University of London. He served in several professional organizations, including holding the position of Secretary General of the African Bar Association from 1978 to 1980, and as the first secretary general of the Inter-African Union of Lawyers. He is a member of the Faculty Board of Law at the University of Nairobi. Between 1985 and 1992, he was a member of the UN Human Rights Committee.\nHe worked for Kaplan & Stratton from March 1969 and became a Partner from April 1972 to May 1991 when he was appointed Attorney General. Wako served as LSK chairman from 1979 to 1981. He was also held numerous positions in regional and global bodies dealing with constitutional and governance affairs.\n\nAmos Wako has been the Attorney General at a historic and transitional period in the history of Kenya . Some of the matters dealt with are:\n\nOversaw the transition from one party state to a multiparty democracy (December 1991) and from one Government to another through a free and fair election in which the ruling (KANU) was defeated by the opposition (NARC) (December 2002). Piloted through Parliament the necessary Constitutional amendments and legislation including providing for a multi-party democratic State and setting up of an independent Electoral Commission. Chaired National Constitutional Conferences consisting of Members of Parliament, religious leaders and representatives of the civil society. Member of the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission.\n\nDrafted the proposed new Constitution of Kenya based on the Constitution of Kenya Bill as drafted by the National Constitutional Conference and as amended by Parliament. This was Draft constitution was nicknamed \"the Wako Draft\", but failed miserably at the Kenyan constitutional referendum, 2005. \n\nHe kept his position as Attorney General through the transition from Daniel arap Moi to Mwai Kibaki. He is dealing with the Goldenberg scandal, a long-running corruption scandal that has lasted his entire time as Attorney General.\n\nIn October 2009 he was given a travel ban by the USA for 'deliberately blocking political reforms' following post-poll violence in 2008. \nMr Amos Wako left the State Law Office on 26 August 2011 as per the new constitution which demanded him to leave office One year after its promulgation. He is Succeeded by Prof Gitu Muigai. He joined the Orange Democratic Movement, on whose ticket he will contest the Busia senate seat in the 4 March General Election.\n\n"}
{"id": "4150342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4150342", "title": "Anti-Turkism", "text": "Anti-Turkism\n\nAnti-Turkism, also known as Turkophobia or anti-Turkish sentiment, is hostility, intolerance, or racism against Turkish or Turkic people, Turkish culture, Turkic countries, or Turkey itself.\n\nThe term refers to intolerance not only against the Turks of Turkey, but also against Turkic groups as a whole, including Azerbaijanis, Crimean Tatars, Turkmens, Bulgarian Turks, Macedonian Turks, Turkish Cypriots, Bosnian Turks, Meskhetian Turks, Turks of the Dodecanese, Kosovan Turks, Croatian Turks, and Romanian Turks, Turks in Russia. It can also refer to racism against Turkish people living outside of Turkey following the Turkish diaspora.\n\nThe roots of anti-Turkism can be traced back to the arrival of the Huns in Europe. While the ethnic background of the Huns is a matter of dispute among historians, they are widely believed to have been of Turkic origin, and their invasion inspired fear among Europeans.\n\nIn the Late Middle Ages, the fall of Constantinople and the Ottoman wars in Europe—part of European Christians' effort to stem the expansion of the Ottoman Empire, the predecessor to Turkey—helped fuel the development of anti-Turkism. By the middle of the 15th century, special masses called \"missa contra Turcos\" (Latin for \"mass against Turks\") were held in various places in Europe to spread the message that victory over the Ottomans was only possible with the help of God and that a Christian community was therefore necessary to withstand the cruelty of the Turks.\n\nAs the Ottomans expanded their empire west, Western Europe came into more frequent contact with the Turks, often militarily.\n\nDuring the Fourth Ottoman–Venetian War, the Ottomans conquered Cyprus.\n\nIn the 16th century, around 2,500 publications about the Turks—including more than 1,000 in German—were released in Europe, spreading the image of the \"bloodthirsty Turk\". From 1480 to 1610, twice as many books were published about the Turkish threat to Europe than about the discovery of the New World.Bishop Johann Faber of Vienna claimed, \"There are no crueler and more audacious villains under the heavens than the Turks, who spare no age or sex and mercilessly cut down young and old alike and pluck unripe fruit from the wombs of mothers.\"\n\nDuring this time, the Ottoman Empire also invaded the Balkans and besieged Vienna, sparking widespread fear in Europe, and especially in Germany. Martin Luther, the German leader of the Protestant Reformation, took advantage of these fears by asserting that the Turks were \"the agents of the Devil who, along with the Antichrist located in the heart of the Catholic Church, Rome, would usher in the Last Days and the Apocalypse\".\n\nLuther believed that the Ottoman invasion was God's punishment of Christians for allowing corruption in the Holy See and the Catholic Church. In 1518, when he defended his 95 Theses, Luther claimed that God had sent the Turks to punish Christians just as he had sent war, plague, and earthquakes. (In response, Pope Leo X issued a papal bull in which he threatened Luther with excommunication and portrayed him as a troublemaker who advocated capitulation to the Turks.) In his writings \"On War Against the Turk\" and \"Military Sermon Against the Turks\", Luther was \"consistent in his theological conception of the Turks as a manifestation of God's chastising rod\". He and his followers also espoused the view that the Ottoman–Habsburg Wars were a conflict \"between Christ and Antichrist\" or \"between God and the devil\".\n\nSpurred by this argument, the Portuguese Empire, seeking to capture more land in East Africa and other parts of the world, used any encounter with the \"Terrible Turk\" as \"a prime opportunity to establish credentials as champions of the faith on par with other Europeans\".\n\nStories of the \"Wolf-Turk\" reinforced the negative image. The Wolf-Turk was claimed to be a man-eating being, half animal and half human, with a wolf's head and tail. Military power and cruelty were the recurring attributes in each portrayal of the Turks.\n\nAccording to some sympathetic Orientalist authors, negative accounts of Turkish customs and people written during the 17th and 18th centuries \"served as an 'ideological weapon' during the Enlightenment's arguments about the nature of government\", creating an image of the Turks that was \"inaccurate but accepted\". However, some contemporary reports documented brutality and corrupt governance against subjugated Christians, including a law that forced all Christian families to relinquish at least one child to the Janissaries in order to fulfill the Quranic requirement of jizya. Other accounts describe rape, forced conversion, torture, murder, and full-scale massacres in the Rhodope Mountains region of what is now Bulgaria.\n\nIn Sweden, the Turks were portrayed as the archenemies of Christianity. A book by the parish priest Erland Dryselius of Jönköping, published in 1694, was titled \"Luna Turcica eller Turkeske måne, anwissjandes lika som uti en spegel det mahometiske vanskelige regementet, fördelter uti fyra qvarter eller böcker\" (\"Turkish moon showing as in a mirror the dangerous Mohammedan rule, divided into four quarters or books\"). In sermons, the Swedish clergy preached about the Turks' cruelty and bloodthirstiness, and how they systematically burned and plundered the areas they conquered. In a Swedish schoolbook published in 1795, Islam was described as \"the false religion that had been fabricated by the great deceiver Muhammad, to which the Turks to this day universally confess\"\".\"\n\nIn 1718, James Puckle demonstrated two version of his new invention, the Puckle gun: a tripod-mounted, single-barreled flintlock weapon fitted with a revolving cylinder, designed to prevent intruders from boarding a ship. The first version, intended for use against Christian enemies, fired conventional round bullets. The second, intended for use against the Muslim Turks, fired square bullets, designed by Kyle Tunis, which were believed to be more damaging and would, according to Puckle's patent, convince the Turks of the \"benefits of Christian civilization\".\n\nVoltaire and other European writers described the Turks as tyrants who destroyed Europe's heritage. In his book \"Orientalism\", Edward Said noted, \"Until the end of the seventeenth century the 'Ottoman peril' lurked alongside Europe to represent for the whole of Christian civilization a constant danger, and in time European civilization incorporated that peril and its lore, its great events, figures, virtues, and vices, as something woven into the fabric of life.\"\n\nEven within the Ottoman Empire, the term \"Turk\" was sometimes used to denote the Yörük backwoodsmen, bumpkins, or illiterate peasants in Anatolia. \"Etrak-i bi-idrak\", an Ottoman play on words, meant \"the ignorant Turk\".\n\nÖzay Mehmet wrote in his book \"Islamic Identity and Development: Studies of the Islamic Periphery\":\n\nBefore the 1960s, Turkey had relatively low emigration. However, after the adoption of a new constitution in 1961, Turkish citizens began to migrate elsewhere. Gradually, Turks became a \"prominent ethnic minority group\" in some Western countries. But from the beginning, they were subject to discrimination. At times, when host countries adopted more immigrant-friendly policies, \"only the Turkish workers were excluded\" from them.\n\nIn various European languages, the word \"Turk\" has acquired a meaning similar to \"barbarian\" or \"heathen\", or is used as a slur or curse. As a result, the word also has some negative connotations in the United States.\n\nArmenia–Turkey relations have historically been hostile, primarily because of the Armenian Genocide of 1915 and Turkey's denial that it happened. According to a 2007 survey, 78% of Armenians see Turkey as a threat. In 2017 surveys in Armenia 93% of respondents disapproved of Armenian women marrying Turks, while 72% disapproved of doing business with Turks.\n\nGeorgians look with a wary eye to Turkey’s growing Neo-Ottomanism and the rise in popularity of irredentist maps showing Turkey with borders expanded into the former Ottoman Empire, usually including Adjara.\n\nBefore 1878, Turks accounted for an estimated one-third of the population of Bulgaria. In 1876, approximately 70% of the country's arable land belonged to Turks. This number declined from 1923–49, when an estimated 220,000 Turks moved from Bulgaria to Turkey, a migration encouraged by the Turkish government. Another wave of about 155,000 left Bulgaria from 1949–51, many of them forcibly expelled.\n\nIn 1984, the government implemented Bulgarisation policies to limit the cultural and ethnic influence of Bulgarian Turks. Approximately 800,000 Turks were forced to adopt Bulgarian names. Furthermore, Turks were not allowed to attend Muslim ceremonies, speak Turkish in public places, or wear traditional Turkish clothing. This led, a few years later, to the biggest exodus in Europe since World War II: After the Bulgaria–Turkey border was opened in June 1989, approximately 350,000 Turks left Bulgaria on tourist visas in the span of three months. Eventually, more than 150,000 Turks returned to Bulgaria—especially after the removal of Todor Zhivkov from power—but more than 200,000 chose to remain in Turkey permanently.\n\nFormer Bulgarian prime minister, Boyko Borisov, has been accused of having anti-Turkish tendencies. In December 2009, he backed a referendum, proposed by the nationalist party Attack (Bulgarian: Атака), on whether to allow daily Turkish-language news broadcasts on Bulgarian National Television, although he later withdrew his support. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, then the Turkish prime minister, \"expressed his concern of rising anti-Turkish sentiments in Bulgaria\" to the Bulgarian prime minister. The Turkish Foreign Ministry also \"expressed its concern over the rising heated rhetoric in Bulgaria\". According to a report by Ivan Dikov, \"not just Атака but a large number of Bulgarians have resented the news in Turkish\".\n\nBorisov also referred to Turks (and Romani) as \"bad human material\" in 2009. The vice president of the Party of European Socialists, Jan Marinus Wiersma, said Borisov had \"crossed the invisible line between right wing populism and extremism\".\n\nAfter the Ottoman Empire fell in the early 20th century, many Turks fled as Muhacirs (refugees). Others intermarried or simply identified themselves as Yugoslavs or Albanians to avoid stigma and persecution.\n\nHistorically, from the Ottoman conquest through the 19th century, many ethnically non-Turkish groups—especially the Slavic Muslims of the Balkans—were referred to in local languages as Turks. This usage is common in literature, including in the works of Ivan Mažuranić and Petar II Petrović-Njegoš. The religious ideology of Christoslavism, coined by Michael Sells, holds that \"Slavs are Christian by nature and that any conversion from Christianity is a betrayal of the Slavic race\". Under this ideology, as seen in Croatian and Serbian nationalism, South Slavic Muslims are not regarded as part of their ethnic kin; by virtue of their Muslim faith, they become \"Turks\".\n\nA long series of events—the fall of Constantinople, Ottoman practices such as the Devşirme, the Greek genocide, the 1955 Istanbul pogrom, the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, and the Aegean dispute—contributed to the rise of anti-Turkism in Greece.\n\nTurks have lived in Western Thrace, an area of northeastern Greece, since the Ottoman conquest of the region in the 15th century. In 1922, Turks owned 84% of the land in Western Thrace. Today, however, estimates range from 20–40%, largely because of policies under which ethnic Greeks were encouraged to purchase Turkish land with soft loans granted by the state.\n\nThe Turkish government estimates that the Turks of Western Thrace number between 120,000 and 130,000. However, the Greeks claim that the Muslim population there includes people of various ethnic and religious backgrounds—primarily the Pomaks (a Slavic people) and the Muslim Roma—and that Sunni Muslims who identify ethnically as Turks are the minority. Thus, the Greek government refers to the Muslims of Western Thrace—whom Turkey sees as the \"Turkish community\"—as Greek Muslims or Hellenic Muslims, and does not recognise any specific Turkish minority. Greek courts have outlawed the use of the word \"Turkish\" to describe the community. In 1987, the Supreme Court of Greece affirmed a 1986 decision in which the Union of Turkish Associations of Western Thrace was ordered closed for illegally using it. The court held that the word \"Turkish\" referred specifically to citizens of Turkey and could not be used to describe citizens of Greece.\n\nThe island of Cyprus became an independent state in 1960, with power shared between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots under the London–Zürich Agreements. But in December 1963, in events that became known as Bloody Christmas, Turkish Cypriots were ousted from the republic and Greek Cypriots began a military campaign against them, leading to 11 years of ethnic clashes. Turkish Cypriots bore the heavier cost in terms of casualties, and some 25,000—about a fifth of the population of Turkish Cypriots—were internally displaced. They lived as refugees for at least ten years, until the 1974 Turkish invasion. By the late 1960s, approximately 60,000 Turkish Cypriots had left their homes and moved into enclaves. This resulted in an exodus of Turkish Cypriots, with the majority migrating to the United Kingdom and others to Turkey, North America, and Australia.\n\nTurks are \"the most prominent ethnic minority group in contemporary Germany\", and discrimination and violence against them are common. In public discourse and popular jokes, they are often portrayed as \"ludicrously different in their food tastes, dress, names, and even in their ability to develop survival techniques\".\n\nThe number of violent acts by right-wing extremists in Germany increased dramatically between 1990 and 1992. On November 25, 1992, three Turkish residents were killed in a firebombing in Mölln, a town in northern Germany. And on May 29, 1993, in an arson attack in Solingen, five members of a Turkish family that had resided in Germany for 23 years were burnt to death. Several neighbours heard someone shout \"Heil Hitler!\" before dousing the front porch and door with gasoline and setting fire to the home. Most Germans condemned these attacks, and many marched in candlelight processions.\n\nAccording to Greg Nees, \"because Turks are both darker-skinned and Muslim, conservative Germans are largely against granting them citizenship\".\n\nThe Maltese have a colourful vocabulary stemming from their fight against the Ottoman Empire during the Great Siege of Malta in 1565. For example, the expression \"tghammed tork\" is used when the sun is visible during rainfall; it means \"a Turk has been baptised\", which was considered a rare event. The phrase \"twieled tork\" (\"a Turk was born\") is also used. Another expression is \"haqq ghat-torok\" (\"curse on the Turks\"), used when something goes wrong.\n\nTurks are the second-largest ethnic minority group in the Netherlands. Although policies toward Turks in the Netherlands are more progressive than those in many other European countries, such as Germany, Human Rights Watch criticized Dutch legislation that it said violated Turks' rights. In a report on the Netherlands in 2008, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance wrote that the Turkish minority had been particularly affected by \"stigmatisation of and discrimination against members of minority groups\". The report also noted that \"the tone of Dutch political and public debate around integration and other issues relevant to ethnic minorities has experienced a dramatic deterioration\".\n\nAccording to the European Network Against Racism, an international organisation supported by the European Commission, half of all Turks in the Netherlands report having experienced racial discrimination. The network also noted \"dramatic growth\" of Islamophobia and antisemitism. In 2001, another international organisation, the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, highlighted a negative trend in Dutch attitudes towards minorities, compared with average European Union results. That analysis also noted that, compared to other Europeans, the Dutch were \"more in favour of cultural assimilation of minorities\" rather than \"cultural enrichment by minority groups\".\n\nIn the Soviet Union, the NKVD and the Red Army carried out ethnic cleansing during World War II through mass deportations of Turks. In June 1945, Vyacheslav Molotov, the Soviet minister of foreign affairs, formally demanded that Turkey surrender three Armenian provinces (Kars, Ardahan, and Artvin), and Moscow was also preparing to support Armenian claims to several other provinces. War against Turkey seemed possible, and Joseph Stalin wanted to drive out Turks (especially in Meskheti, near the Turkish–Georgian border) who were likely to be hostile to Soviet intentions. The campaign is relatively poorly documented, but Soviet sources suggest that 115,000 Turks were deported, mainly to Central Asia. Most of them settled in Uzbekistan, but many others died along the way.\n\nIn 1989, 103 people died and more than 1,000 were wounded in ethnic clashes between Turks and Uzbeks. Some 700 houses were destroyed, and more than 90,000 Meskhetian Turks were driven out of Uzbekistan. Many Turks see these events as their \"second deportation\". Those who remained in Uzbekistan complained of ethnic discrimination.\n\nAlthough some Turks have since come back to Meskheti, the Georgians and Armenians who settled in their homes have vowed to take up arms against any who return. Many Georgians have also argued that the Meskhetian Turks should be sent to Turkey, \"where they belong\".\n\nMore recently, some Turks in Russia, especially Meskhetian Turks in Krasnodar, have faced human rights violations, including deprivation of citizenship and prohibitions on employment and owning property. Since 2004, many Turks have left the Krasnodar region for the United States as refugees. They are still barred from full repatriation to Georgia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21723790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21723790", "title": "Arhuaco language", "text": "Arhuaco language\n\nArhuaco, commonly known as Ikʉ, is an Indigenous American language of the Chibchan language family, spoken in South America by the Arhuaco people.\n\nIt has 14,800 speakers, all in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta region of Colombia, 90% of whom are monolingual. Literacy is 1 to 5% in their native language. Some speak Spanish, and 15 to 25% are literate in that auxiliary language. The users have a very strong traditional culture and have vibrant use of their tongue.\n\nIt is also known as: \"Aruaco, Bintuk, Bíntukua, Bintucua, Ica, Ijca, Ijka, Ika, and Ike.\"\n\nThe language uses a subject–object–verb (SOV) sentence structure.\n\n is raised to and merged with word finally.\n\n\nThis language registers 17 consonant phonemes:\n\nFrank, Paul. 1985. A grammar of Ika. PhD thesis. University of Pennsylvania.\n\nFrank, Paul. 2000. Ika syntax. Dallas, TX: Summer Institute of Linguistics.\n\nLandaburu, Jon. 2000. La lengua Ika. in \"Lenguas indigenas de Colombia: Una visión descriptiva\". Bogota: Instituto Caro y Cuervo\".\" \n\n"}
{"id": "24456442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24456442", "title": "Autorità per le Garanzie nelle Comunicazioni", "text": "Autorità per le Garanzie nelle Comunicazioni\n\nAutorità per le Garanzie nelle Comunicazioni (AGCOM) () is the regulator and competition authority for the communication industries in Italy.\n\nThe 4 members of Agcom board are elected by the Parliament (2 by the Senate, 2 by the Chamber of Deputies) and consequently the Parliament establish its powers and define its statutes.\n\nThe Authority carries out regulatory and supervisory functions in the areas of telecommunications, television, newspapers and postal services. Functional branch of the authority are the Regional Committees for Communications (Corecom).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35080779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35080779", "title": "Baangi language", "text": "Baangi language\n\nBaangi is a Kainji language of Nigeria spoken by the Kambari people.\n"}
{"id": "3003360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3003360", "title": "Crow Foot", "text": "Crow Foot\n\nCrow Foot (1873 – December 15, 1890) was the son of Sitting Bull of the Lakota. His mother was either Seen by Her Nation or Four Robes. He had sisters named Standing Holy and Lodge; he also had brothers named Henry, Little Soldier, Red Scout, and Theodore.\n\nIn 1881 he participated alongside his father in the surrender at Fort Buford. Crow Foot was killed along with his father on December 15, 1890, by a group of Indian agents.\n"}
{"id": "67638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67638", "title": "Demographics of Azerbaijan", "text": "Demographics of Azerbaijan\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Azerbaijan, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nIn thousands\n\nNotes about table\n\nStructure of the population (01.07.2012) (Estimates) :\n\nFertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and CBR (Crude Birth Rate):\nAs of 2016, Azerbaijan has a crude birth rate of 16.5‰. Rural areas tend to have higher birth rates compared to urban areas. \n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\n\n\n\nCensus in Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "12697173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12697173", "title": "Demographics of Saint Petersburg", "text": "Demographics of Saint Petersburg\n\nSaint Petersburg is the second largest city in Russia, after Moscow. 2002 census recorded population of the federal subject 4,661,219, or 3.21% of the total population of Russia. The city with its vicinity has an estimated population of about 6 million people.\n\nThe 2002 census recorded twenty-two ethnic groups of more than two thousand persons each. The ethnic composition was: Russian 84.72%; Ukrainian 1.87%; Belarusians 1.17%; Jewish 0.78%; Tatar 0.76%; Armenian 0.41%; Azeri 0.36%; Georgian 0.22%; Chuvash 0.13%; Polish 0.10%; Finnish 0.08%; Korean 0.08%; German 0.08%; Moldovan 0.07%; Mordovian 0.07%; Uzbek 0.06%; Kazakh 0.06%; Ossetian 0.06%; Bashkir 0.05%; Tajik 0.05%; Estonian 0.05%; Karelian 0.05%; Lithuanian 0.6%, and many other ethnic groups of less than two thousand persons each. 7.89% of the inhabitants declined to state their ethnicity. As of 2001, 41 percent of Petersburgers identified themselves as Russian Orthodox, another 21% called themselves Christians in general. Almost a half of both groups were at the same time self-reported non-believers. The number of churched parishioners of the Russian Orthodox Church are estimated as less than 5%.\n\nSaint Petersburg has always been populated mostly by Russians, albeit with several sizeable ethnic minorities, such as Germans, Ukrainians, Finns, and people from Eastern Europe, among others. In 1800 an estimated 200 to 300 thousand lived in the city. After the emancipation of serfs in 1861, former serfs started arriving to the capital as workers, boosting population from half a million to 1439.6 thousand recorded in the census of 1900.\n\nThroughout the three centuries the growth of St. Petersburg was accompanied by an increase in population of its surroundings, while the latter to the city were gradually incorporated into the city limits. From an administrative point of view these suburbs (, literally \"by the city\") comprised a few uezds adjacent to the city, holding an intermediate position between the gubernia (presently oblast) as the largest unit in Russia and the city of Petersburg as its center. A known confusion between the \"St. Petersburg / Petrograd / Leningrad Uezd\" (1727—1914—1924–1927; with a rural population of 56002 according to the census of 1897) and four districts ( or , literally \"plots\" or \"homesteads\") referred to as suburbs (of Petershof, of Shlisselburg, of Polyustrovo and of Lesnoi; a total of 191491 inhabitants by 1900) may sometimes lead to a discrepancy between the statistical data taken from different sources, especially considering the fact that a suburban Tsarskoselsky Uezd (population around 150,000 in 1897) was excluded from district statistics.\n\nIn 1890–1891 the population figures for Petersburg crossed the boundary of 1 million. By 1900 the 38 'plots' comprising the 'city itself' had a population of 1,248,122 while the four abovenamed suburban districts counted 191,491 people.\n\nIn the 20th century the city experienced three major depopulation trends. The first one began in 1916 (estimates for this year show 2.4 million; this level was surpassed again in 1930–31). In addition to the February Revolution, the sharp deterioration in food supplies in the first months of 1917 caused the flood of certain segments of population to the rural areas of Russia. In 1918 Petrograd without suburbs counted 1,179,256 persons (a 40% decline to 1917), and in 1920 about 740 thousand (without troops garrisoned in the city). By that time mobilisations brought the remarkable preponderance of women over men: 100 to 72, not counting the troops.\n\nThe demobilisation after the end of the Civil War (1921), the industrial revival which followed the promulgation of New Economic Policy (March 21, 1921), resumption of the old and opening a lots of new universities and especially colleges led to the increasing influx of population since 1921, in which younger generations formed a notable part. The first Five-Year Plans (1928–1930, 1931–1935 and 1936–1940) put the population growth upon the planned basis supported by a 'propiska' residencial quotas introduced at the beginning of the 1930s. It should be noted that in the years of industrialization in the USSR the influx of population was at the same time accompanied by the annual outflow of tens of thousands of college graduates and workers assigned to another locations of the country on the construction sites and in rural areas from where they came to study in Leningrad.\n\nThe German minority in Petersburg began to extinguish at the end of the 19th century (1890 – 4.6%, 1900 – 3.5%); this process accelerated in 1914 with the beginning of the First World War. The disintegration of the Russian Empire in 1917–1920 with the secession of Finland, Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania was followed by an outflow of Finns (in 1900 they counted 15638, or 1.3% of citizen), Poles (38314, or 3.1%), Estonians (13401, or 1.1%), Latvians (7097, or 0.6%) and Lithuanians (5666, or 0.4%). In 1939 the city has surpassed a 3-million mark, however the subsequent mobilisation to the Winter War (1939–40), the assignments of some part of both military and civilians onto the western territories of the USSR and to a certain extent, the Transfer of some Finns still remaining in Leningrad out of the border zone of the USSR stagnated the 3 million population level through the beginning of the Great Patriotic War in June 1941.\n\nThe impact of the siege of Leningrad is estimated as one of the longest, most destructive and costly in terms of casualties in human history. Before September 8, 1941 when the city was encircled 336,000 civilians were evacuated with the 86 city industrial enterprises that were dismantled and moved to Northern Russia and Siberia. From September 1941 through April 1942 659,000 civilians were evacuated mainly by watercraft and ice road over the Ladoga lake. From May through October 1942 another 403,000 people were evacuated mainly through the waterways of this lake. Not everybody from those 1,298,000 were Leningradians, for some of them fled to the city from surrounding territory seeking a rescue from the German troops. But the worst thing is that many of them died soon after evacuation due to the previous months of starvation within the Siege of Leningrad. From September, 1941 to January, 1944 670,000 deaths were registered officially, resulting mostly from starvation, stress and exposure. In addition, German shelling and bombings killed 5,723 and wounded 20,507 civilians.\n\nStatistics for 1944 show between 546,000 and 700,000 Leningradians who managed to undergo the hardships of the blockade. After the siege was lifted, the evacuees were allowed to return, but the main source of renewal of the population of Leningrad in the post-war years was the influx from another parts of the Soviet Union. Only in 1957–1958, or 18–19 years after 1939 when the 3-million citizen was born, the city managed to surpass this population mark again. 12 years later, in 1969–1970 the population reached 4 million, and in 1988–1989 — 5 million.\n\nWhen the historical maximum was reached in 1990 (less than 5,1 million) the whole country has already teetered on the brink of political and economic collapse. The first year when the city has restored its original name, St. Petersburg (1991) was the first in the most lengthy period of the steady population reduction in the city history. By 2003 the city population was less than 4,5 million, or at a level of 1977. Among the reasons of this demographic degradation were the increase of death rate and decrease of birth rate; halting of inflow of workers due to shutdowns of many of the city’s industries; increased emigration out of the country; closure of many military educational institutions. At the same time a certain inflow to the Leningrad Oblast (a region surrounding the city) in the 2000s was influenced with the migration from Russia and other ex Soviet Republics, the relocation of officers and their families from places of the overseas deployment of the Soviet Army. The relevant suburban housing construction was supported both with private and state funding. The long-term excess of deaths over births has brought a noticeable population ageing. The average age is about 40 years, and people of 65 years and older comprise more than 20% of the population, while the life expectancy in Russia has fallen under 60 years.\n\nPeriods of temporary economic recovery accompanied by an increase in demand for unskilled labor (road and construction workers, janitors, porters, drivers etc.) pose a problem of migrant workers under a new, unexpected angle. In the Soviet planned economy this demand was covered by the stable inflow of labourers from the central regions of Russia and the European Republics of the USSR. They were favored with both job and dwelling guarantees (initially housed in the dorms, after a certain period they received a new living space from the state). Now the labour sourcing geographical azimuth has changed to the ex republics of Caucasus, Middle Asia and Moldavia known by the lesser professional skill of newcomers. Apart from that, more and more labourers now migrate to St. Petersburg from the Far East and Turkey. It changes the labour market conditions for people from Russia and other ex-Soviet Republics, despite the fact that the latter were taught Russian language from their childhood.\n\nPeople in urban Saint Petersburg mostly live in apartment blocks. Between 1918 and 1990s, the Soviets nationalised housing and many were forced to share their apartments as communal apartments (\"kommunalkas\") with other residents of the city. In the 1930s some 68 percent of the Leningrad population lived in shared apartments. Leningrad was the largest city of the Soviet Union by the number of \"kommunalkas\". As new boroughs were built on the outskirts in the 1950s-1980s, over half a million low-income families eventually received free apartments, and additional hundred thousand condos were purchased by the middle class. Today, economic and social activity remains concentrated in and around the city centre, which is the richest part of the city; the new boroughs have mostly served a commuter area function, with people living in large multi-storied apartment blocks and travelling to and from the city centre for work. Their gentrification has yet to begin. Although progress has been made in resettling residents of \"kommunalkas\" in the 1990s, shared apartments are still not uncommon. In the last 15 years of de-nationalisation, most of the residential property has been transferred free of charge, or at a small fraction of its value, to millions of legal residents of St. Petersburg.\n"}
{"id": "10574314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10574314", "title": "Digital journalism", "text": "Digital journalism\n\nDigital journalism also known as online journalism is a contemporary form of journalism where editorial content is distributed via the Internet as opposed to publishing via print or broadcast. What constitutes 'digital journalism' is debated by scholars. However the primary product of journalism, which is news and features on current affairs, is presented solely or in combination as text, audio, video, or some interactive forms like newsgames, and disseminated through digital media technology.\n\nFewer barriers to entry, lowered distribution costs, and diverse computer networking technologies have led to the widespread practice of digital journalism. It has democratized the flow of information that was previously controlled by traditional media including newspapers, magazines, radio, and television.\n\nSome have asserted that a greater degree of creativity can be exercised with digital journalism when compared to traditional journalism and traditional media. The digital aspect may be central to the journalistic message and remains, to some extent, within the creative control of the writer, editor, and/or publisher.\n\nThere is no absolute agreement as to what constitutes digital journalism. Mu Lin argues that \"Web and mobile platforms demand us to adopt a platform-free mindset for an all-inclusive production approach – create the (digital) contents first, then distribute via appropriate platforms.\" The repurposing of print content for an online audience is sufficient for some, while others require content created with the digital medium's unique features like hypertextuality. Fondevila Gascón adds multimedia and interactivity to complete the digital journalism essence. For Deuze, online journalism can be functionally differentiated from other kinds of journalism by its technological component which journalists have to consider when creating or displaying content. Digital journalistic work may range from purely editorial content like CNN (produced by professional journalists) online to public-connectivity websites like Slashdot (communication lacking formal barriers of entry). The difference of digital journalism from traditional journalism may be in its reconceptualised role of the reporter in relation to audiences and news organizations. The expectations of society for instant information was important for the evolution of digital journalism\n. However, it is likely that the exact nature and roles of digital journalism will not be fully known for some time.\n\nThe first type of digital journalism, called teletext, was invented in the UK in 1970. Teletext is a system allowing viewers to choose which stories they wish to read and see it immediately. The information provided through teletext is brief and instant, similar to the information seen in digital journalism today. The information was broadcast between the frames of a television signal in what was called the Vertical Blanking Interval or VBI.\n\nAmerican journalist, Hunter S. Thompson relied on early digital communication technology beginning by using a fax machine to report from the 1971 US presidential campaign trail as documented in his book Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail.\n\nAfter the invention of teletext was the invention of videotex, of which Prestel was the world's first system, launching commercially in 1979 with various British newspapers such as the Financial Times lining up to deliver newspaper stories online through it. Videotex closed down in 1986 due to failing to meet end-user demand.\n\nAmerican newspaper companies took notice of the new technology and created their own videotex systems, the largest and most ambitious being Viewtron, a service of Knight-Ridder launched in 1981. Others were Keycom in Chicago and Gateway in Los Angeles. All of them had closed by 1986.\n\nNext came computer Bulletin Board Systems. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, several smaller newspapers started online news services using BBS software and telephone modems. The first of these was the Albuquerque Tribune in 1989.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" in September 1992 broke the news of Electronic Arts' acquisition of Origin Systems on Prodigy, before its next issue went to press. Online news websites began to proliferate in the 1990s. An early adopter was \"The News & Observer\" in Raleigh, North Carolina which offered online news as Nando. Steve Yelvington wrote on the Poynter Institute website about Nando, owned by The N&O, by saying \"Nando evolved into the first serious, professional news site on the World Wide Web\". It originated in the early 1990s as \"NandO Land\". It is believed that a major increase in digital online journalism occurred around this time when the first commercial web browsers, Netscape Navigator (1994), and Internet Explorer (1995). By 1996, most news outlets had an online presence. Although journalistic content was repurposed from original text/video/audio sources without change in substance, it could be consumed in different ways because of its online form through toolbars, topically grouped content, and intertextual links. A twenty-four-hour news cycle and new ways of user-journalist interaction web boards were among the features unique to the digital format. Later, portals such as AOL and Yahoo! and their news aggregators (sites that collect and categorize links from news sources) led to news agencies such as The Associated Press to supplying digitally suited content for aggregation beyond the limit of what client news providers could use in the past.\n\nAlso, \"Salon\", was founded in 1995. In 2001 the \"American Journalism Review\" called \"Salon\" the Internet's \"preeminent independent venue for journalism.\"\n\nIn 2008, for the first time, more Americans reported getting their national and international news from the internet, rather than newspapers. Young people aged 18 to 29 now primarily get their news via the Internet, according to a Pew Research Center report. Audiences to news sites continued to grow due to the launch of new news sites, continued investment in news online by conventional news organizations, and the continued growth in internet audiences overall. Sixty-five percent of youth now primarily access the news online.\n\nMainstream news sites are the most widespread form of online newsmedia production. As of 2000, the vast majority of journalists in the Western world now use the internet regularly in their daily work. In addition to mainstream news sites, digital journalism is found in index and category sites (sites without much original content but many links to existing news sites), meta- and comment sites (sites about newsmedia issues like media watchdogs), and share and discussion sites (sites that facilitate the connection of people, like Slashdot). Blogs are also another digital journalism phenomenon capable of fresh information, ranging from personal sites to those with audiences of hundreds of thousands. Digital journalism is involved in the cloud journalism phenomenon, a constant flow of contents in the Broadband Society.\n\nPrior to 2008, the industry had hoped that publishing news online would prove lucrative enough to fund the costs of conventional newsgathering. In 2008, however, online advertising began to slow down, and little progress was made towards development of new business models. The Pew Project for Excellence in Journalism describes its 2008 report on the State of the News Media, its sixth, as its bleakest ever. Despite the uncertainty, online journalists report expanding newsrooms. They believe advertising is likely to be the best revenue model supporting the production of online news.\n\nMany news organizations based in other media also distribute news online, but the amount they use of the new medium varies. Some news organizations use the Web exclusively or as a secondary outlet for their content. The Online News Association, founded in 1999, is the largest organization representing online journalists, with more than 1,700 members whose principal livelihood involves gathering or producing news for digital presentation.\n\nThe Internet challenges traditional news organizations in several ways. Newspapers may lose classified advertising to websites, which are often targeted by interest instead of geography. These organizations are concerned about real and perceived loss of viewers and circulation to the Internet.\n\nHyperlocal journalism is journalism within a very small community. Hyperlocal journalism, like other types of digital journalism, is very convenient for the reader and offers more information than former types of journalism. It is free or inexpensive.\n\nDigital journalism allows for connection and discussion at levels that print does not offer on its own. People can comment on articles and start discussion boards to discuss articles. Before the Internet, spontaneous discussion between readers who had never met was impossible. The process of discussing a news item is a big portion of what makes for digital journalism. People add to the story and connect with other people who want to discuss the topic.\n\nDigital journalism creates an opportunity for niche audiences, allowing people to have more options as to what to view and read.\n\nDigital journalism opens up new ways of storytelling; through the technical components of the new medium, digital journalists can provide a variety of media, such as audio, video, and digital photography.\n\nDigital journalism represents a revolution of how news is consumed by society. Online sources are able to provide quick, efficient, and accurate reporting of breaking news in a matter of seconds, providing society with a synopsis of events as they occur. Throughout the development of the event, journalists are able to feed online sources the information keeping readers up-to-date in mere seconds. The speed in which a story can be posted can affect the accuracy of the reporting in a way that doesn't usually happen in print journalism. Before the emergence of digital journalism the printing process took much more time, allowing for the discovery and correction of errors.\n\nNews consumers must become Web literate and use critical thinking to evaluate the credibility of sources. Because it is possible for anyone to write articles and post them on the Internet, the definition of journalism is changing. Because it is becoming increasingly simple for the average person to have an impact in the news world through tools like blogs and even comments on news stories on reputable news websites, it becomes increasingly difficult to sift through the massive amount of information coming in from the digital area of journalism.\n\nThere are great advantages with digital journalism and the new blogging evolution that people are becoming accustomed to, but there are disadvantages. For instance, people are used to what they already know and can't always catch up quickly with the new technologies in the 21st century. The goals of print and digital journalism are the same, although different tools are needed to function.\n\nThe interaction between the writer and consumer is new, and this can be credited to digital journalism. There are many ways to get personal thoughts on the Web. There are some disadvantages to this, however, the main one being factual information. There is a pressing need for accuracy in digital journalism, and until they find a way to press accuracy, they will still face some criticism.\n\nOne major dispute regards the credibility of these online news websites. A digital journalism credibility study performed by the Online News Association compares the online public credibility ratings to actual media respondent credibility ratings. Looking at a variety of online media sources, the study found that overall the public saw online media as more credible than it actually is.\n\nThe effects of digital journalism are evident worldwide. This form of journalism has pushed journalists to reform and evolve. Older journalists who are not tech savvy have felt the blunt force of this. In recent months, a number of older journalists have been pushed out and younger journalists brought in because of their lower cost and ability to work in advanced technology settings.\n\nMany newspapers, such as \"The New York Times\", have created online sites to remain competitive and have taken advantage of audio, video, and text linking to remain at the top of news consumers' lists as most of the news enthusiasm now reach their base through hand held devices such as smart phones, tables etc. Hence audio or video backing is definite advantage. \n\nNewspapers rarely break news stories any more, with most websites reporting on breaking news before the cable news channels. Digital journalism allows for reports to start out vague and generalized, and progress to a better story. Newspapers and TV cable are at a disadvantage because they generally can only put together stories when an ample amount of detail and information are available. Often, newspapers have to wait for the next day, or even two days later if it is a late-breaking story, before being able to publish it. Newspapers lose a lot of ground to their online counterparts, with ad revenue shifting to the Internet, and subscription to the printed paper decreasing. People are now able to find the news they want, when they want, without having to leave their homes or pay to receive the news , even though there are still people who are willing to pay for online journalistic content.\n\nBecause of this, many people have viewed digital journalism as the death of journalism. According to communication scholar Nicole Cohen, \"four practices stand out as putting pressure on traditional journalism production: outsourcing, unpaid labour, metrics and measurement, and automation\". Free advertising on websites such as Craigslist has transformed how people publicize; the Internet has created a faster, cheaper way for people to get news out, thus creating the shift in ad sales from standard newspapers to the Internet. There has been a substantial effect of digital journalism and media on the newspaper industry, with the creation of new business models. It is now possible to contemplate a time in the near future when major towns will no longer have a newspaper and when magazines and network news operations will employ no more than a handful of reporters. Many newspapers and individual print journalists have been forced out of business because of the popularity of digital journalism. The newspapers that have not been willing to be forced out of business have attempted to survive by saving money, laying off staff, shrinking the size of the publications, eliminating editions, as well as partnering with other businesses to share coverage and content. In 2009, one study concluded that most journalists are ready to compete in a digital world and that these journalists believe the transition from print to digital journalism in their newsroom is moving too slowly. Some highly specialized positions in the publishing industry have become obsolete. The growth in digital journalism and the near collapse of the economy has also led to downsizing for those in the industry.\n\nStudents wishing to become journalists now need to be familiar with digital journalism in order to be able to contribute and develop journalism skills. Not only must a journalist analyze their audience and focus on effective communication with them, they have to be quick; news websites are able to update their stories within minutes of the news event. Other skills may include creating a website and uploading informaiton using basic programming skills. \n\nCritics believe digital journalism has made it easier for individuals who are not qualified journalists to misinform the general public. Many believe that this form of journalism has created a number of sites that do not have credible information. Sites such as PerezHilton.com have been criticized for blurring the lines between journalism and opinionated writing.\n\nSome critics believe that newspapers should not switch to a solely Internet-based format, but instead keep a component of print as well as digital.\n\nDigital journalism allows citizens and readers the opportunity to join in on threaded discussions relating to a news article that has been read by the public. This offers an excellent source for writers and reporters to decide what is important and what should be omitted in the future. These threads can provide useful information to writers of digital journalism so that future articles can be pruned and improved to possibly create a better article the next time around.\n\nDigitization is currently causing many changes to traditional journalistic practice. The labour of journalists in general is becoming increasingly dependant on digital journalism. Scholars outline that this is actually a change to the execution of journalism and not the conception part of the labour process. They also contend that this is simply the de-skilling of some skills and the up-skilling of others. This theory is in contention to the notion that technological determinism is negatively effecting journalism, as it should be understood that it is just changing the traditional skill set. Communication scholar Nicole Cohen believes there are several trends putting pressure on this traditional skill set. Some of which being outsourcing, algorithms, and automation. Although she believes that technology could be used to improve Journalism, she feels the current trends in digital journalism are so far affecting the practice in a negative way.\n\nThere is also the impact that digital journalism is facing due to citizen journalism. Because digital journalism takes place online and is contributed mostly by citizens on user generated content sites, there is competition growing between the two. Citizen journalism allows anyone to post anything, and because of that, journalists are being forced by their employers to publish more news content than before, which often means rushing news stories and failing to confirm information.\n\nThe Internet has also given rise to more participation by people who are not normally journalists, such as with Indy Media (Max Perez).\n\nBloggers write on web logs or blogs. Traditional journalists often do not consider bloggers to automatically be journalists. This has more to do with standards and professional practices than the medium. For instance, crowdsourcing and crowdfunding journalism attracts amateur journalists, as well as ambitious professionals that are restrained by the boundaries set by traditional press. However, the implication of these types of journalism is that it disregards the professional norms of journalistic practices that ensures accuracy and impartiality of the content. But, , blogging has generally gained at least more attention and has led to some effects on mainstream journalism, such as exposing problems related to a television piece about President George W. Bush's National Guard Service.\n\nRecent legal judgements have determined that bloggers are entitled to the same protections as other journalists subject to the same responsibilities. In the United States, the Electronic Frontier Foundation has been instrumental in advocating for the rights of journalist bloggers.\n\nIn Canada, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that:\"[96] A second preliminary question is what the new defence should be called. In arguments before us, the defence was referred to as the responsible journalism test. This has the value of capturing the essence of the defence in succinct style. However, the traditional media are rapidly being complemented by new ways of communicating on matters of public interest, many of them online, which do not involve journalists. These new disseminators of news and information should, absent good reasons for exclusion, be subject to the same laws as established media outlets. I agree with Lord Hoffmann that the new defence is \"available to anyone who publishes material of public interest in any medium\": Jameel, at para. 54.\"\n\nOther significant tools of on-line journalism are Internet forums, discussion boards and chats, especially those representing the Internet version of official media. The widespread use of the Internet all over the world created a unique opportunity to create a meeting place for both sides in many conflicts, such as the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and the First and Second Chechen Wars. Often this gives a unique chance to find new, alternative solutions to the conflict, but often the Internet is turned into the battlefield by contradicting parties creating endless \"online battles.\"\n\nInternet radio and podcasts are other growing independent media based on the Internet.\n\nWith the rise of digital media, there is a move from the traditional journalist to the blogger or amateur journalist. Blogs can be seen as a new genre of journalism because of their \"narrative style of news characterized by personalization\" that moves away from traditional journalism's approach, changing journalism into a more conversational and decentralized type of news. Blogging has become a large part of the transmitting of news and ideas across cites, states, and countries, and bloggers argue that blogs themselves are now breaking stories. Even online news publications have blogs that are written by their affiliated journalists or other respected writers. Blogging allows readers and journalists to be opinionated about the news and talk about it in an open environment. Blogs allow comments where some news outlets do not, due to the need to constantly monitor what is posted. By allowing comments, the reader can interact with a story instead of just absorbing the words on the screen. According to one 2007 study, 15% of those who read blogs read them for news.\n\nHowever, many blogs are highly opinionated and have a bias. Some are not verified to be true. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) established guidelines mandating that bloggers disclose any free goods or services they receive from third parties in 2009 in response to a question of the integrity of product and service reviews in the online community.\n\nDigital journalism's lack of a traditional \"editor\" has given rise to citizen journalism. The early advances that the digital age offered journalism were faster research, easier editing, conveniences, and a faster delivery time for articles. The Internet has broadened the effect that the digital age has on journalism. Because of the popularity of the Internet, most people have access, and can add their forms of journalism to the information network. This allows anyone who wants to share something they deem important that has happened in their community. Individuals who are not professional journalists who present news through their blogs or websites are often referred to as citizen journalists. One does not need a degree to be a citizen journalist. Citizen journalists are able to publish information that may not be reported otherwise, and the public has a greater opportunity to be informed. Some companies use the information that a citizen journalist relays when they themselves can not access certain situations, for example, in countries where freedom of the press is limited. Anyone can record events happening and send it anywhere they wish, or put it on their website. Non-profit and grass roots digital journalism sites may have far fewer resources than their corporate counterparts, yet due to digital media are able to have websites that are technically comparable. Other media outlets can then pick up their story and run with it as they please, thus allowing information to reach wider audiences.\n\nFor citizen journalism to be effective and successful, there needs to be citizen editors, their role being to solicit other people to provide accurate information and to mediate interactivity among users. An example can be found in the start up of the South Korean online daily newspaper, OhMyNews, where the founder recruited several hundred volunteer \"citizen reporters\" to write news articles which were edited and processed by four professional journalists.\n\nOne emerging problem with online journalism in the United States is that, in many states, individuals who publish only on the Web do not enjoy the same First Amendment rights as reporters who work for traditional print or broadcast media. As a result, unlike a newspaper, they are much more liable for such things as libel. In California, however, protection of anonymous blog sources was ruled to be the same for both kinds of journalism. \"O'Grady v. Superior Court\", 44 Cal. Rptr. 3d 72 (Cal. Ct. App. 2006); \"O'Grady v. Superior Court\", 44 Cal. Rptr. 3d 72, 139 Cal.App. 4th 1423, modified by \"O'Grady v. Superior Court\", 140 Cal.App. 4th 675b, 2006.\n\nIn Canada there are more ambiguities, as Canadian libel law permits suits to succeed even if no false statements of fact are involved, and even if matters of public controversy are being discussed. In British Columbia, as part of \"a spate of lawsuits\" against online news sites, according to legal columnist Michael Geist, several cases have put key issues in online journalism up for rulings. Geist mentioned that Green Party of Canada financier Wayne Crookes filed a suit in which he alleged damages for an online news service that republished resignation letters from that party and let users summarize claims they contained. He had demanded access to all the anonymous sources confirming the insider information, which Geist believed would be extremely prejudicial to online journalism. The lawsuit, \"Crookes versus openpolitics\", attracted attention from the BBC and major newspapers, perhaps because of its humorous name. Crookes had also objected to satire published on the site, including use of the name \"gang of Crookes\" for his allies. Subsequently, Crookes sued Geist, expanding the circle of liability. Crookes also sued Google, Wikipedia, Yahoo, PBwiki, domain registrars and Green bloggers who he felt were associated with his political opponents. Crookes' attempt to enforce BC's plaintiff-friendly libel laws on California, Ontario and other jurisdictions led to an immediate backlash in bad publicity but the legal issues remain somewhat unresolved as of November 2009. Crookes lost four times on the grounds that he had not shown anyone in BC had actually read the materials on the minor websites, but this left the major question unresolved: How to deal with commentary deemed fair in one jurisdiction but actionable in another, and how to ensure that universal rights to free speech and reputation are balanced in a way that does not lead to radically different outcomes for two people who might for instance participate in a conversation on the Internet.\n\nNon-democratic regimes that do not respect international human rights law present special challenges for online journalism:\n\nThe Internet also offers options such as personalized news feeds and aggregators, which compile news from different websites into one site. One of the most popular news aggregators is Google News. Others include Topix.net, and TheFreeLibrary.com.\n\nBut, some people see too much personalization as detrimental. For example, some fear that people will have narrower exposure to news, seeking out only those commentators who already agree with them.\n\nAs of March 2005, Wikinews rewrites articles from other news organizations. Original reporting remains a challenge on the Internet as the burdens of verification and legal risks (especially from plaintiff-friendly jurisdictions like BC) remain high in the absence of any net-wide approach to defamation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18015080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18015080", "title": "Edward Sagarin", "text": "Edward Sagarin\n\nEdward Sagarin (September 18, 1913 – June 10, 1986), also known by his pen name Donald Webster Cory, was an American professor of sociology and criminology at the City University of New York, and a writer. His book \"The Homosexual in America: A Subjective Approach\", published in 1951, was considered \"one of the most influential works in the history of the gay rights movement,\" and inspired compassion in others by highlighting the difficulties faced by homosexuals.\n\nHe was titled \"father of the homophile movement\" for asserting that gay men and lesbians deserved civil rights as members of a large, unrecognised minority. However, Vern L. Bullough believes the title is undeserved as Sagarin did not actively participate in resistance and did not join any homophile organisations until 1962, a time when he was seeking a topic to analyse in his thesis.\n\nSagarin was born in Schenectady, New York to Russian Jewish parents. Sagarin was born with scoliosis, which produced a hump on his back. He attended high school, and after graduating, spent a year in France where he met André Gide. Upon his return to New York, he enrolled at City College of New York, but was forced to drop out of college due to the Great Depression.\n\nIn 1934, Sagarin met Gertrude Liphshitz, a woman who shared his left-wing political interests. They married in 1936 and soon after, Gertrude gave birth to a boy. Sagarin established himself in the perfume and cosmetics industry, becoming knowledgeable about the chemistry of perfumes, and publishing \"The Science and Art of Perfumery\" in 1945.\n\nSagarin began a dual life, publishing \"The Homosexual in America: A Subjective Approach\" in 1951, which was deemed an \"act of heroism\", under the pseudonym of Donald Webster Cory. The use of the nom de plume, and the attitudes that differed when Sagarin used either of his identities, led to the comparison of Sagarin/Cory to the Dr. Jekyll/Mr Hyde character. Mr. Cory, who presented homosexuals as a despised minority, was seen as a \"mythic hero\", where Dr. Sagarin (as he would later be known) was a \"hunchback deviant\".\n\nThe publication of the book was considered a \"radical step\", as it was the first publication in the United States that discussed homosexual politics and sympathetically presented the plight of homosexuals. Sagarin described how homosexuals were discriminated against in almost all aspects of their lives and called for a repeal of anti-homosexuality laws;\nOne great gap separates the homosexual minority from all others, and that is its lack of recognition, its lack of respectability in the eyes of the public, and even in the most advanced circles.\nA research report by Alfred Kinsey \"et al.\", \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Male\" (1948), had a beneficial effect on the reception of Sagarin's publication. In 1952, due to the success of \"The Homosexual in America: A Subjective Approach\", Sagarin established a subscription book service called \"Cory Book Service\", which chose a gay-themed literary work each month.\n\nSagarin continued using his pseudonym, and released a second publication in 1953 called \"Twenty-One Variations on a Theme\", an anthology of short stories dealing with homosexuality to which included pieces by Sherwood Anderson, Paul Bowles, Christopher Isherwood, Denton Welch, Charles Jackson, and Stefan Zweig.\n\nIn 1958 Sagarin joined Brooklyn College, completing his BA in an accelerated program, and in 1961 he entered an MA program in sociology, where he wrote a thesis on \"The Anatomy of Dirty Words\". Throughout the 1960s, Cory remained one of the most conservative members of the Mattachine Society, and opposed the rejection of the \"sickness theory\" of homosexuality by some homophile leaders. His belief was that homosexuality was \"a disturbance\" that probably arose as a result of a pathological family situation. In 1963, he co-authored a book called \"The Homosexual and His Society\" with John LeRoy (pseudonym of Barry Sheer), which claimed that there was no such thing as a \"well adjusted homosexual\". In 1965 as Cory, he failed in his bid for presidency of the Mattachine Society. The loss of the presidency, and his difference in beliefs from other members of the Society, resulted in a disparity that directly influenced his education. Sagarin entered New York University's PhD program in sociology, graduating in 1966, submitting a dissertation titled \"Structure and Ideology in an Association of Deviants\", which was a study of the Mattachine Society. He did not, however, reveal his involvement in the society as Cory. His acceptance of the position of assistant professor at Baruch College, a campus of City University of New York, led some to characterise it as the beginning of his rise to \"giant in the field of sociological deviance\" and the recession of his part in the homophile movement.\n\nIn the 1970s, Sagarin pursued an active homosexual life, though he continued to characterise homosexuals as disturbed, and frequently urged them to seek therapy. He rejected the idea that homosexuality was a natural sexual variant, and criticised the new psychological and sociological studies of Evelyn Hooker and John Gagnon. However, he argued that homosexuality should be decriminalized.\n\nThe real identity of Sagarin's persona, Donald Webster Cory, remained unknown until a 1974 convention of the American Sociological Society in Montreal. On a panel entitled \"Theoretical Perspectives on Homosexuality\", Sagarin levelled criticism at the liberationist scholarship, and in response, Laud Humphreys exposed Sagarin by calling him \"Mr. Cory\". After the convention, Sagarin withdrew from issues concerning homosexuality.\n\nOn June 10, 1986, he died of a heart attack. At the time, he was serving as Dean Of The Graduate School Of The John Jay College Of Criminal Justice\nin NYC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181113", "title": "Elizabeth Fry", "text": "Elizabeth Fry\n\nElizabeth Fry (née Gurney, often referred to as \"Betsy\"; 21 May 1780 – 12 October 1845) was an English prison reformer, social reformer and, as a Quaker, a Christian philanthropist. She has sometimes been referred to as the \"angel of prisons\".\n\nFry was a major driving force behind new legislation to make the treatment of prisoners more humane, and she was supported in her efforts by Queen Victoria. She was depicted on the Bank of England £5 note from 2001–2016. Fry kept extensive and revealing diaries.\n\nElizabeth Fry was born in Gurney Court, off Magdalen Street, Norwich, Norfolk, England into a prominent Quaker family, the Gurneys. Her childhood family home was Earlham Hall, which is now part of the University of East Anglia. Her father, John Gurney (1749–1809), was a partner in Gurney's Bank. Her mother, Catherine, was a member of the Barclay family who were among the founders of Barclays Bank. Her mother died when Elizabeth was twelve years old. As one of the oldest girls in the family, Elizabeth was partly responsible for the care and education of the younger children, including her brother Joseph John Gurney, a philanthropist. One of her sisters was Louisa Gurney Hoare (1784–1836), a writer on education.\n\nAccording to her diary Elizabeth was moved by the preaching of Priscilla Hannah Gurney, Deborah Darby and William Savery. Unlike her direct family she recognised the existence of God.\n\nShe met Joseph Fry (1777–1861), a banker and part of the Fry's chocolate-making family, who was also a Quaker, when she was 20 years old. They married on 19 August 1800 at the Norwich Goat Lane Friends Meeting House and moved to St Mildred's Court in the City of London. Elizabeth Fry was recorded as a minister of the Religious Society of Friends in 1811.\n\nJoseph and Elizabeth Fry lived in Plashet House in East Ham between 1809 and 1829, then moved to The Cedars on Portway in Forest Gate, where they lived until 1844. They had eleven children, five sons and six daughters:\n\n\nPrompted by a family friend, Stephen Grellet, Fry visited Newgate Prison in 1813. The conditions she saw there horrified her. The women's section was overcrowded with women and children, some of whom had not even received a trial. The prisoners did their own cooking and washing in the small cells in which they slept on straw.\n\nShe returned the following day with food and clothes for some prisoners. She was unable to personally further her work for nearly four years because of difficulties within the Fry family, including financial difficulties in the Fry bank. \nFry returned in 1816 and was eventually able to fund a prison school for the children who were imprisoned with their mothers. Rather than attempt to impose discipline on the women, she suggested rules and then asked the prisoners to vote on them. In 1817 she helped found the \"Association for the Reformation of the Female Prisoners in Newgate\". This association provided materials for women so that they could learn to sew and knit and once they were out of prison and then could earn money for themselves. This led to the eventual creation of the \"British Ladies' Society for Promoting the Reformation of Female Prisoners\" in 1821. She also promoted the idea of rehabilitation instead of harsh punishment which was taken on by the city authorities in London as well as many other authorities and prisons.\n\nIn 1827, Fry visited women prisoners in Ireland (see \"Memoirs of Mrs. Elizabeth Fry\", Thomas Timpson, NY: Stanford & Swords, 1847, pp. 82-99).\n\nElizabeth Fry also campaigned for the rights and welfare of prisoners who were being transported. The women of Newgate Prison were taken through the streets of London in open carts, often in chains, huddled together with their few possessions. They were pelted with rotten food and filth by the people of the city. The fear was often enough to make women condemned to transportation riot on the evening before. Fry's first action was to persuade the Governor of Newgate prison to send the women in closed carriages and spare them this last indignity before transportation. She visited prison ships and persuaded captains to implement systems to ensure each woman and child would at least get a share of food and water on the long journey. Later she arranged each woman to be given scraps of material and sewing tools so that they could use the long journey to make quilts and have something to sell as well as useful skills when they reached their destination. She also included a bible and useful items such as string and knives and forks in this vital care package.\nElizabeth Fry visited 106 transport ships and saw 12,000 convicts. Her work helped to start a movement for the abolition of transportation. Transportation was officially abolished in 1837, however Elizabeth Fry was still visiting transportation ships until 1843.\n\nElizabeth Fry wrote in her book \"Prisons in Scotland and the North of England\" that she stayed the night in some of the prisons and invited nobility to come and stay and see for themselves the conditions prisoners lived in. Her kindness helped her gain the friendship of the prisoners and they began to try to improve their conditions for themselves. Thomas Fowell Buxton, Fry's brother-in-law, was elected to Parliament for Weymouth and began to promote her work among his fellow MPs. In 1818 Fry gave evidence to a House of Commons committee on the conditions prevalent in British prisons, becoming the first woman to present evidence in Parliament.\n\nElizabeth Fry also helped the homeless, establishing a \"nightly shelter\" in London after seeing the body of a young boy in the winter of 1819/1820. In 1824, during a visit to Brighton, she instituted the Brighton District Visiting Society. The society arranged for volunteers to visit the homes of the poor and provide help and comfort to them. The plan was successful and was duplicated in other districts and towns across Britain.\n\nElizabeth Fry used her influential network and worked with other prominent Quakers to campaign for the abolition of the slave trade.\n\nAfter her husband went bankrupt in 1828, Fry's brother became her business manager and benefactor. Thanks to him, her work went on and expanded.\n\nIn 1838 the Friends sent a party to France. Fry and her husband, Lydia Irving, and abolitionists Josiah Forster and William Allen. They were there on other business but despite the language barrier Fry and Lydia Irving visited French prisons.\n\nIn 1840 Fry opened a training school for nurses. Her programme inspired Florence Nightingale, who took a team of Fry's nurses to assist wounded soldiers in the Crimean War.\n\nIn 1842, Frederick William IV of Prussia went to see Fry in Newgate Prison during an official visit to Great Britain. The King of Prussia, who had met the social reformer during her previous tours of the continent promoting welfare change and humanitarianism, was so impressed by her work that he told his reluctant courtiers that he would personally visit the gaol when he was in London.\n\nOne admirer was Queen Victoria, who granted her an audience a few times before she was Queen and contributed money to her cause after she ascended to the throne. Another admirer was Robert Peel who passed several acts to further her cause including the Gaols Act 1823. The act was largely ineffective, because there were no inspectors to make sure that it was being followed.\n\nFollowing her death in 1845, a meeting chaired by the Lord Mayor of London, resolved that it would be fitting \"to found an asylum to perpetuate the memory of Mrs Fry and further the benevolent objects to which her life had been devoted.\" A fine 18th-century town house was purchased at 195 Mare Street, in the London Borough of Hackney and the first Elizabeth Fry refuge opened its doors in 1849. Funding came via subscriptions from various city companies and private individuals, supplemented by income from the inmates' laundry and needlework. Such training was an important part of the refuge's work. In 1924, the refuge merged with the Manor House Refuge for the Destitute, in Dalston in Hackney, becoming a hostel for girls on probation for minor offences . The hostel soon moved to larger premises in Highbury, Islington and then, in 1958, to Reading, where it remains today. The original building in Hackney became the CIU New Lansdowne Club but became vacant in 2000 and has fallen into disrepair. Hackney Council, in 2009, was leading efforts to restore the building and bring it back into use. The building did undergo substantial refurbishment work in 2012 but as of July 2013, the entire building is for sale. The building and Elizabeth Fry are commemorated by a plaque at the entrance gateway.\n\nFry died from a stroke in Ramsgate, England, on 12 October 1845. Her remains were buried in the Friends' burial ground at Barking. Seamen of the Ramsgate Coast Guard flew their flag at half mast in respect of Mrs Fry; a practice that until this occasion had been officially reserved for the death of a ruling monarch.\nMore than a thousand people stood in silence during the burial at the Ramsgate memorial\n\nThere are a number of memorials which commemorate places where Fry lived. There are plaques located at her birthplace of Gurney Court in Norwich; her childhood home of Earlham Hall; St. Mildred's Court, City of London, where she lived when she was first married; and Arklow House, her final home and place of death in Ramsgate. Her name heads the list on the southern face of the Reformers Monument in Kensal Green Cemetery, London. She is depicted in stained glass at All Saints Church, Cambridge alongside Edith Cavell and Josephine Butler.\n\nDue to her work as a prison reformer, there are several memorials to Elizabeth Fry. One of the buildings which make up the Home Office headquarters, 2 Marsham St, is named after her. She is also commemorated in prisons and courthouses, including a terracotta bust in the gatehouse of HM Prison Wormwood Scrubs and a stone statue in the Old Bailey. The Canadian Association of Elizabeth Fry Societies honours her memory by advocating for women who are in the criminal justice system. They also celebrate and promote a National Elizabeth Fry Week in Canada each May.\n\nElizabeth Fry is also commemorated in a number of educational and care-based settings. The University of East Anglia's School of Social Work and Psychology is housed in a building named after her. There is an Elizabeth Fry Ward at Scarborough General Hospital in North Yorkshire, United Kingdom. A road is named for Fry at Guilford College, a school in Greensboro, North Carolina, which was founded by Quakers. There is a bust of Elizabeth Fry located in East Ham Library, Newham Borough of London.\n\nQuakers also acknowledge Elizabeth Fry as a prominent member. Her grave at the former Society of Friends Burial Ground, located off Whiting Avenue in Barking, Essex, was restored and received a new commemorative marble plinth in October 2003. In February 2007, a plaque was erected in her honour at the Friends Meeting House in Upper Goat Lane, Norwich. Fry is also depicted in the Quaker Tapestry, on panels E5 and E6. She is also honoured by other Christian denominations. In the Lady Chapel of Manchester's Anglican Cathedral, one of the portrait windows of Noble Women on the west wall of the Chapel features Elizabeth Fry. The Church of England includes her on its liturgical calendar on Oct. 12.\n\nSince 2001, Fry has been depicted on the reverse of £5 notes issued by the Bank of England. She is shown reading to prisoners at Newgate Prison. The design also incorporates a key, representing the key to the prison which was awarded to Fry in recognition of her work. However, as of 2016, Fry's image on these notes was replaced by that of Winston Churchill. She was one of the social reformers honoured on an issue of UK commemorative stamps in 1976.\n\nFry kept extensive diaries which give unique insight into her work, life and personality.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53836792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53836792", "title": "Esther Pugh", "text": "Esther Pugh\n\nEsther Pugh (August 31, 1834 - March 29, 1908) was an American temperance reformer from Ohio. She served as Treasurer of the National Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), a Trustee of Earlham College, as well as editor and publisher of the monthly temperance journal, \"Our Union\". She died in Philadelphia in 1908.\n\nEsther Pugh, daughter of Achilles and Anna Maria Pugh, was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, August 31, 1834. Her parents were Quakers. For many years, the father was a journalist in Cincinnati, and publisher of the \"Chronicle\". Pugh received a good education.\n\nEarly on, Pugh became interested in moral reforms, and soon became prominent in the temperance movement. She was one of the leaders in the movement, joining the WCTU during its first meetings. She served as Treasurer of the National WCTU for 15 years, and her management style repeatedly aided the national order in passing through financial difficulties. Considered to be a clear and forcible orator, she traveled for temperance work throughout the United States and Canada, lecturing and organizing unions. Pugh's association with Frances E. Willard was enduring. \n\nSucceeding Mary Towne Burt, Pugh served as publisher and editor of the monthly temperance journal, \"Our Union\", for years. According to Gifford (1995), Pugh, Frances H. Rastall and Caroline Buell used the \"Union Signal\" (the paper's name after its merger with \"The Signal\") to promote their private businesses. Because of her journalistic experience, Pugh was called upon to provide guidance for the Methodist Episcopal Church's periodical, \"Woman's Home Missions\", regarding typeset and how to make up a \"dummy\".\n\nPugh's work in the WCTU, beginning in Cincinnati, caused her residence at different times to be in Columbus, Ohio, Cleveland, Ohio, Brooklyn, New York, and Chicago, Illinois, though made her home is in Evanston, Illinois. She served an Elder in the Friends church. She was appointed a Trustee of Earlham College by Indiana Yearly Meeting, and held that position until failing health made it necessary for her to resign. Pugh died in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, March 29, 1908. The funeral service was held at the home of her sister, Mary T. Wildman, in Philadelphia. Pugh was buried in Waynesville, Ohio.\n\n"}
{"id": "26270902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26270902", "title": "Europeans in Algeria", "text": "Europeans in Algeria\n\nDuring the French colonial period (1830–1962), Algeria contained a large European population of 1.6 million who constituted 15.2% of the total population in 1962. Consisting primarily of French people, other populations included Spaniards in the west of the country, Italians and Maltese in the east, and other Europeans in smaller numbers. Known as \"Pieds-Noirs\", European colonists were concentrated on the coast and formed a majority of the population of Oran (60%) and important proportions in other large cities like in the capital Algiers and Bône. In religion, they were mostly Roman Catholic Christians. In 1871, the indigenous Jews obtained the French nationality, and they were also considered as pieds noirs.\n\nHowever, the indigenous Algerian Muslims remained a large majority of the territory's population throughout its history, and before the invasion and colonization of Algeria by France, Europeans were practically absent.\nGradually, dissatisfaction among the Muslim population with its lack of political rights (Muslims were denied French citizenship and the right to vote or to be elected) and economic status fueled calls for greater political autonomy and eventually independence from France. Tensions between the two population groups came to a head in 1954, when the first violent events of what was later called the Algerian War began. The very bloody and bitter war concluded in 1962 when Algeria gained complete independence following the March 1962 Evian agreements on July 3, 1962. This was the exodus for the \"pieds noirs\".\n\nOn the eve and during Algerian independence in 1962, more than one million \"Pied-Noir\" settlers of French nationality immediately fled or were evacuated to mainland France. However, with continuing violence and discrimination by the Algerian state and people against the remaining settlers, most of the remainder of the population of 100,000 people (less than 1% of the population) who stayed after 1962, also fled during the 1960s. The \"Pieds-Noirs\" felt unable to return to their birthplace, Algeria, because of the independence movement's violence and resentment felt against the former \"Pied-Noir\" settlers by the FLN.\n"}
{"id": "623890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623890", "title": "Fang language", "text": "Fang language\n\nFang is a Central African language spoken by around 1 million people in Cameroon, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, São Tomé and Príncipe, and the Congo Republic. It is the dominant Bantu language of Gabon and Equatorial Guinea. It is related to the Bulu and Ewondo languages of southern Cameroon. Fang is spoken in northern Gabon, southern Cameroon, throughout Equatorial Guinea, in the Republic of the Congo, and small fractions of the islands of São Tomé and Príncipe. Under President Macías Nguema, Fang was the official language of Equatorial Guinea.\n\nThere are many different variants of Fang in Gabon and Cameroon. Maho (2009) lists Southwest Fang as a distinct language. The other dialects are Ntoumou, Okak, Mekê, Atsi (Batsi), Nzaman (Zaman), Mveni, and Mvaïe.\n\nDespite lacking any truly certain corpus of Fang's literary body, it is of note that linguists have, in the past, made attempts to compile dictionaries and lexicons for the Fang language. The two most notable ones to be either proposed or fully compiled were made by Maillard (2007) and Bibang (2014). Neither created a direct Fang-English dictionary, but opted instead to separate the two languages via a third European language as a bridge for various loanwords.\n\nThe translation efforts to English have been done through Romance languages: specifically, Spanish and French. The latter of the two languages would likely have had the most impact on the language, given the occupation of Gabon by the French during the existence of French Equatorial Africa (itself part of French West Africa), which lasted 75 years from 1885 to 1960. To a lesser extent, in São Tomé and Príncipe, Portuguese also likely has influenced the dialects of Fang present there, due to the country being occupied by Portugal for most of the islands' history of habitation.\n\nFang has 7 vowels, each of which can have short or long realizations.\n\nNasal vowels are allophones of the respective oral vowels, when followed by a nasal consonant or . Words can not start with , , nor .\n\nDiphthongs can be a combination of any vowel with or , as well as , , , .\n\nFang distinguishes between 4 different tones, conventionally called: high, low, rising and falling. The former two are simple tones, while the latter are compound tones. One vowel in a sequences of vowels can be elided in casual speech, though its tone remains and attaches to the remaining vowel. \n\nIn Fang, there are 24 plain consonants. The majority of them can become prenasalized:\n\nWords can not start with , except when followed by a velar consonant. and also are restricted from word-initial position. and can only come in word-initial position in words of foreign origin, although in many of these cases, becomes realized as .\n\nThe morpheme \"gh\" is pronounced as in the case of the word \"Beyoghe\" (the Fang term for Libreville); one of several changes to pronunciation by morphology.\n\nIt is also important to note that in Fang, at every \"hiatus\" (shock of two vowels), such as in \"Ma adzi\", it is required for one to make the second word an aphetism, dropping the pronunciation of the sound at the start of the second word (e.g. \"Ma dzi\") in order to make grammatically correct sentences.\n\nAlthough the Fang language does not have an official orthography, native speakers happen to use the extended Latin alphabet with specific accents. Due to the enormous geographic region it covers, and the large amount of Fang dialects, the following list may not be entirely accurate; one issue of note is the lack of marking for tones. Regardless, common phrases for the Oyem area of northern Gabon include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33336821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33336821", "title": "Faroese Dane", "text": "Faroese Dane\n\nA Faroese Dane is a resident of Denmark with a Faroese ethnic background.\n\nIn 2006, 21,687 people of Faroese descent were recorded in Denmark, a figure almost half the population of the Faroe Islands.\n\nOn average each year, not fewer than 240 Faroese move to Denmark from Faroe Islands, which is about 0.5% of the Faroese population.\n\n"}
{"id": "47016309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47016309", "title": "Feldgeister", "text": "Feldgeister\n\nFeldgeister (\"field spirits\"; singular: \"Feldgeist\") or \"Korndämonen\" (\"corn demons\"; singular: \"Korndämon\") are corn spirits from German folklore. \"Feldgeister\" often are also wind spirits causing lightning and rain.\n\nNumerous \"Feldgeister\" are known in German folklore, some shaped as animals, some in human form. The last grain heads and tree fruits are often left at their place as a sacrifice for the agricultural spirits. During harvest season \"Feldgeister\" flee deeper into the fields to escape the mowers. With the last cornstalks the corn spirit becomes trapped. Either it is killed by cutting the grain heads, threshing the corn or it is brought to the village in a ceremonial manner, shaped as a corn doll. Direct contact to the \"Feldgeist\" causes illness.\n\nThe \"Roggenwolf\" (\"rye wolf\"), \"Getreidewolf\" (\"grain wolf\") or \"Kornwolf\" (\"corn wolf\") is a field spirit shaped as a wolf. The \"Roggenwolf\" steals children and feeds on them.\n\nOther names are \"Gerstenwolf\" (\"barley wolf\"), \"Haferwolf\" (\"oat wolf\"), \"Erbsenwolf\" (\"pea wolf\"), \"Kartoffelwolf\" (\"potato wolf\"), \"Graswolf\" (\"grass wolf\") and \"Pflaumenwolf\" (\"plum wolf\").\n\nSometimes the \"Roggenwolf\" is equated with the werewolf.\n\nThe \"Erbsenbär\" (\"pea bear\") or \"Roggenbär\" (\"rye bear\") is a field spirit shaped as a bear.\n\nThe \"Kornhund\" (\"corn dog\") is a dog-shaped wind spirit feeding on flour.\n\nOther names are \"Roggenhund\" (\"rye dog\"), \"Heupudel\" (\"hay poodle\"), \"Schotenhund\" (\"husk dog\"), \"Scheunbetze\" (\"barn dog\"), \"Dreschhund\" (\"threshing dog\"), \"Weizenbeller\" (\"wheat barker\") or \"Kornmops\" (\"corn pug\")\n\nThe \"Kiddelhunde\" (\"titillation dogs\") look for children to tickle them to death.\n\nThere are several cat-shaped field spirits. The \"Kornkatze\" (\"corn cat\"), \"Wetterkatze\" (\"weather cat\"), \"Heukatze\" (\"hay cat\") or \"Windkatze\" (\"wind cat\") is a female cat spirit.\n\nThe male equivalent of the \"Kornkatze\" is the \"Kornkater\" (\"corn tomcat\") \"Murrkater\" (\"grumbling tomcat\") or \"Bullkater\" (\"bull tomcat\") who steals children looking for cornflowers.\n\nThe \"Scheunesel\" (\"barn donkey\") or \"Baumesel\" (\"tree donkey\") is a corn spirit shaped as a donkey.\n\nThere are also pig corn demons. One such pig is the \"Roggensau\" (\"rye sow\"). The \"Roggensau\" steals human children or perches itself on a hiker's back. Other names are \"Windsau\" (\"wind sow\"), \"Kleesau\" (\"clover sow\"), \"Kornsau\" (\"corn sow\"), \"Aumsau\" (\"chaff sow\") or \"îserne Range\" (\"iron sow\").\n\nThe \"Korneber\" (\"corn boar\") is a male pig-shaped field spirit.\n\nThe \"Kornstier\" (\"corn bull\") is a cattle-shaped corn spirit. At Christmas the bull fertilizes the fruit tree. In spring the \"Kornstier\" is called \"Aprilochse\" (\"April ox\") or \"Maiochse\" (\"May ox\").\n\nAnother cattle-shaped spirit present in the fields in springtime is the \"Märzenkalb\" or \"Märzkalb\" (both \"march calf\").\n\nAdditionally, a cow is also present called the \"Kornkuh\" or \"Kornmockel\" (\"both corn cow\")\n\nThe \"Haferbock\" (\"oat buck\") or \"Erntebock\" (\"harvest buck\") is a he-goat spirit. This \"Feldgeist\" is also known as \"Austbock\" (\"harvest buck\"), \"Halmbock\" (\"haulm buck\"), \"Erbsenbock\" (\"pea buck\"), \"Kornbock\" (\"corn buck\"), \"Roggenbock\" (\"rye buck\"), \"Arftenbuck\" (\"pea buck\"), \"Bohnenbock\" (\"bean buck\"), \"Nickelbock\" \"Haberbock\" (\"oat buck\"), \"Grasbock\" (\"grass buck\"), \"Heubock\" (\"hay buck\") or \"Baumbock\" (\"tree buck\"). At Christmas the buck fertilizes the fruit tree.\n\nThe female equivalent of the \"Haferbock\" is the \"Habergeiß\" (\"oat goat\"), also known as \"Korngeiß\" (\"corn goat\"), \"Weizengeiß\" (\"wheat goat\") \"Roggengeiß\" (\"rye goat\"), \"Hobagoaß\" (\"oat goat\") or \"Heugeiß\" (\"hay goat\"). The \"Habergeiß\" is sometimes said to have only three legs. It is sometimes also described as a three-footed bird, as a yellow bird with goat voice, as half a goat and half a bird, as a goat with horse feet and a mouth like a half-opened scutcher or as a young chamois with wings. The cry of the \"Habergeiß\" pronounces springtime as well as bad luck. Someone who imitates the cry of the \"Habergeiß\" will get punishment. The \"Habergeiß\" hunts, scratches or even eats the meddlesome one. If not, it wil hang itself as a bloody coat at the crier's door. This corn demon also slaps people looking out of the window at night or takes part in the wild hunt, is also the mount of the devil. In heavy thunderstorm the \"Habergeiß\" bring cut grain from one field to another foreign field. The appearance of the \"Habergeiß\" causes bad luck. The corn will spoil, the cows will lose weight, give no milk and felt. When the cry of the \"Habergeiß\" is heard in autumn this means a long winter and lack of hay.\n\nBoth \"Haferbock\" and \"Habergeiß\" steal, hit or kill children.\n\nA corn spirit shaped as a bird is the \"Weizenvogel\" (\"wheat bird\") or \"Rätschvogel\".\n\nThe \"Getreidehahn\" or \"Troadhân\" (both \"grain rooster\") is a rooster-shaped corn demon who sits in corn field and waits for children to peck out their eyes. Other names are \"Arnhahn\", \"Erntehahn\", \"Bauthahn\" (all \"harvest rooster\"), \"Herbsthahn\" (\"autumn rooster\") \"Schnitthahn\" (\"cut rooster\"), \"Stoppelhahn\" (\"stubble rooster\"), \"Kornhahn\" (\"corn rooster\") or \"Saathahn\" (\"seed rooster\").\n\nThe female equivalent of the \"Getreidehahn\" is the \"Erntehenne\" or \"Aarhenne\" (both \"harvest hen\").\n\nOther corn spirits are shaped as rabbits, deers or roe deers and also as sheep, horses, foxes, mouses, geese, storks, swans, dragons or toads.\n\nSome \"Feldgeister\" show mixed animal and human features. One example is the \"Katzenmann\" (\"cat man\") who shares feline and human features. The \"Bockmann\" or \"Bockelmann\" (both \"buck man\") instead is a human-goat hybrid who steals children. He is also known as \"Bockkêrl\" (\"buck guy\") or \"Bockemâ\" (\"buck man\").\n\nThe \"Roggenmuhme\" (\"rye aunt\") is a female corn demon with fiery fingers. Her bosoms are filled with tar, and may end in tips of igneous iron. Her bosoms are also long, and as such must be thrown over her shoulders when she runs. The \"Roggenmuhme\" is completely black or white, and in her hand she has a birch or whip from which lightning sparks. She can change herself into different animals; such as snakes, turtles, frogs and others.\n\nThe \"Roggenmuhme\" is well known for stealing human children which are looking for cornflowers. The \"Roggenmuhme\" is also known to replace children with changelings. She forces children to suck at her deadly bosom, and may strike the children with her bosom. The \"Roggenmuhme\" also chases children at speeds simultaneous to a running horse. She blows the eyelight of children out, and pounds children in her iron butter churn. The \"Roggenmuhme\" is said to be the mother of the \"Roggenwölfe\" (\"rye wolves\") and can, herself, also be in the form of a wolf. Sometimes the \"Roggenmuhme\" is accompanied by little dogs who lead children into her iron hug.\n\nThe \"Roggenmuhme\" walks through the corn field looking for food. She eats the grain, either all or just the very towering spikes. When the corn is bad or dried up, the \"Roggenmuhme\" punishes the farmer. A \"Roggenmuhme\" striding the fields is an indicator of a good harvest. The \"Roggenmuhme\" is also known to pester the maidservants who were not fully spinning their distaffs until Twelfth Night.\n\nOther names for the \"Roggenmuhme\" are \"Roggenmutter\" (\"rye mother\"), \"Regenmöhme\" (\"rain aunt\"), \"Kornwyf\" (\"corn woman\"), \"Kornmutter\" (\"corn mother\"), \"Kornfrau\" (\"corn lady\"), \"Kornmuhme\" (\"corn aunt\"), \"Kornweib\" (\"corn woman\"), \"Roggenmöhme\" (\"rye aunt\"), \"Preinscheuhe\", \"Tremsemutter\" (\"cornflower mother\"), \"Rockenmör\" (\"distaff mother\"), \"Kornengel\" (\"corn angel\"), \"Weizenmutter\" (\"wheat mother\"), \"Gerstenmutter\" (\"barley mother\"), \"Flachsmutter\" (\"flax mother\"), \"Erbsenmuhme\" (\"pea aunt\"), Großmutter (\"grandmother\") \"wilde Frau\" (\"wild lady\"), \"Weizenmuhme\" (\"wheat aunt\"), \"Gerstenmuhme\" (\"barley aunt\"), \"Tittewîf\" (\"bosom woman\"), \"Buttermuhme\" (\"butter aunt\"), \"Erntemutter\" (\"harvest mother\"), \"die Alte\" (\"the old one\"), \"Heimmutter\" (\"home mother\"), \"große Mutter\" (\"big mother\"), \"alte Hure\" (\"old prostitute\"), \"große Hure\" (\"big prostitute\"). and \"Haferfrau\" (\"oat lady\").\n\n\"Kornmaid\" (\"corn maiden\"), \"Getreidemagd\" (\"grain maidservant\"), \"die Magd\" (\"the maidservant\"), \"Kornjungfer\" (\"corn damsel\"), \"Haferbraut\" (\"oat bride\"), \"die Braut\" (\"the bride\") and \"Weizenbraut\" (\"wheat bride\") are younger \"Roggenmuhmen\".\n\nThe \"Hafermann\" (\"oat man\") is a male corn demon who steals children. He throws an iron shillelagh. Wearing a big black hat and having a giant stick in his hand, the \"Hafermann\" waits for passants to kidnap them through the air.\n\nOther names for the \"Hafermann\" are \"Getreidemann\" (\"grain man\"), \"der Alte\" (\"the old one\"), \"Heidemann\" (\"heath man\"), \"Heidemänneken\" (\"little heath man\"), \"Kornjude\" (\"corn Jew\"), who is said to be Jewish, \"Kornmann\" (\"corn man\"), \"der schwarze Mann\" (\"the black man\"), \"der wilde Mann\" (\"the wild man\"), \"Grummetkerl\" (\"hay guy\"), \"Getreidemännchen\" (\"little grain man\"), \"Kleemännchen\" (\"little clover man\"), \"Grasteufel\" (\"grass devil\"), \"Roggenmann\" (\"rye man\"), \"Weizenmann\" (\"wheat man\"), \"Gerstenmann\"(\"barley man\"), \"Erntemann\" (\"harvest man\"), \"Schewekerl\", \"de grîse mann\" (\"the grey man\") or \"Erdäpfelmann\" (\"potato man\").\n\nA creature of similar name if not identical is the \"Heidmann\" (\"heath man\"). This ghost looks at night through the windows of a house and the person he looks at must die in year and day.\n\n\"Der böse Sämann\" (\"the evil sower\"), another male corn demon, can be cast out by going over the fields with burning wisps of straw at the first day of fasting period. It is said that the \"Säemann\" (\"sower\") is the owner of the \"Saathahn\" (\"seed rooster\"), a bird which is associated with seed. The \"Saathahn\" is to be gathered by going out on the fields with a bag full of green shrubbery.\n\nThe \"Haferbräutigam\" (\"oat bridegroom\") is a younger \"Hafermann\".\n\nThe \"Kornkind\" (\"corn child\") or \"Ährenkind\" (\"grain head child\") is a corn spirit shaped as a child. It is identical with the fruit of the field which is \"born\" by harvest. Other names for the \"Kornkind\" are \"das Kind\" (\"the child\"), \"Erntekind\" (\"harvest child\"), \"Hôrputtel\", \"Hôrkind\" and \"Hurenbalg\" (all \"prostitute's child\") and \"Reppekindchen\".\n\nThe \"Haferkönig\" (\"oat king\") and \"Haferkönigin\" (\"oat queen\") are the rulers of all field spirits. Other names are \"Kong\" (\"king\"), \"Lattichkönig\" (\"lettuce king\") and \"Maigraf\" (\"may earl\").\n\nThe \"Bilwis\" is a male or female corn spirit of sometimes demonic or sometimes human origin. It has flying hair, is wrapped in white linen and wears a little triangular hat. The \"Bilwis\" rolls through the corn shaped as a destructive giant ball or appears as a whirlwind to steal grain during harvest season. Both can be repelled by throwing a knife with three crosses on its blade on the \"Bilwis\", shouting: \"Da hast du es, Bilbze!\" (\"There you have it, \"Bilwis\"!\").\n\nSorcerers acting as \"Bilwis\" and helpful methods against them are described by Ludwig Bechstein:\n\"Even today, and this is popular belief, there are also such \"Bilsenschnitter\" (\"Bilwisse\"), that are people, going out to the fields very early at the days of \"Himmelfahrt\" (either Ascension of Jesus or Mary), St John's Eve or Trinity Sunday, barefooted, a little sickle-shaped knife bond to the big toe of the right foot. They step through the seed and cut a line with the knife through it. At the time of harvest and threshing the tenth part of the fruit of such a field must bestow on the \"Bilsenschnitter\". However, the business is associated with great danger. Will the \"Bilsenschnitter\" be called by someone or will be shot over him with a shotgun, then he has to die in the same year. When he notices and addresses the arrival earlier, the fate of death comes upon the other. Most farmers try to save themselves against the damage threatening their fields in such a way by plowing and sowing the field from outside first, because in grain cultivated in such a way no \"Bilsenschnitter\" can break in. When threshing the grain which was cut, the \"Bilsenschnitter\" comes, giving good words, that something in the farmstead may be borrowed him, which must not happen. For revenge at the \"Bilsenschnitter\", twigs of juniper are added during threshing of the tithed grain. Every beat with the flair then strikes the \"Bilsenschnitter\" until he comes running at the end and requests, for all in the world, threshing may be created in another manner.\" (Translated from the German text)\nAdditionally, \"Bilwisse\" also can be punished by hanging some of the grain heads, which are cut by a \"Bilwis\",into the chimney. The \"Bilwis\" will dry out as the grain heads will do, becoming a mummy alive, finally dying woefully.\nThe \"Bilwisschnitt\" (\"\"Bilwis\" cut\") can also be done by riding on a billy goat, then called a \"Bocksschnitt\" (\"buck cut\").\n\nA \"Bilwis\" also muddles hair and beard, causes illness and nightmares.\n\nNon-human \"Bilwisse\" live in mountains and trees.\n\nOther names for the \"Bilwis\" are \"Bil-wiss\", \"Bilbze\", \"Bilbsenschnitter\" (\"Schnitter\" = mower), \"Bilsenschnitter\", \"Binsenschnitter\", \"Belwit\", \"Belewitte\", \"Pilwis\", \"Pilbis\", \"Bilverschnitter\", \"Bilmes\", \"Bilgenschneider\" (\"Schneider\" = cutter) and \"Bilwiss\".\n\nThe \"Windsbraut\" (\"wind's bride\") is an (originally female, but occasionally also male) spirit of the whirlwind.\n\n\"Windsbräute\" are stealing the earnings of fieldwork. They can be disarmed by throwing a knife into the whirlwind. A \"Windsbraut\" is unable to remove the knife by own power and therefore needs the help of the knife's owner.\n\nA \"Windsbraut\" is not always a demon but also can be a sorcerer or sorceress.\n\nOther names for \"Windsbraut\" are \"Windschbrauß\", \"Windbrauss\", \"Windsprauch\", \"Windgelle\", \"Windschbrach\", \"Windgäsperl\" (\"wind Kasperle\") and \"Windgäspele\" (\"wind Kasperle\").\n\n"}
{"id": "637623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637623", "title": "Glass ceiling", "text": "Glass ceiling\n\nA glass ceiling is a metaphor used to represent an invisible barrier that keeps a given demographic (typically applied to minorities) from rising beyond a certain level in a hierarchy.\n\nThe metaphor was first coined by feminists in reference to barriers in the careers of high-achieving women. In the US, the concept is sometimes extended to refer to obstacles hindering the advancement of minority women, as well as minority men. Minority women often find the most difficulty in \"breaking the glass ceiling\" because they lie at the intersection of two historically marginalized groups: women and people of color. East Asian and East Asian American news outlets have coined the term \"bamboo ceiling\" to refer to the obstacles that all East Asian Americans face in advancing their careers.\n\nWithin the same concepts of the other terms surrounding the workplace, there are similar terms for restrictions and barriers concerning women and their roles within organizations and how they coincide with their maternal duties. These \"Invisible Barriers\" function as metaphors to describe the extra circumstances that women undergo, usually when trying to advance within areas of their careers and often while trying to advance within their lives outside their work spaces.\n\nThe United States Federal Glass Ceiling Commission defines the glass ceiling as \"the unseen, yet unbreachable barrier that keeps minorities and women from rising to the upper rungs of the corporate ladder, regardless of their qualifications or achievements.\"\n\nDavid Cotter and colleagues defined four distinctive characteristics that must be met to conclude that a \"glass ceiling\" exists. A glass ceiling inequality represents:\nCotter and his colleagues found that glass ceilings are correlated strongly with gender. Both white and minority women face a glass ceiling in the course of their careers. In contrast, the researchers did not find evidence of a glass ceiling for African-American men.\n\nThe glass ceiling metaphor has often been used to describe invisible barriers (\"glass\") through which women can see elite positions but cannot reach them (\"ceiling\"). These barriers prevent large numbers of women and ethnic minorities from obtaining and securing the most powerful, prestigious and highest-grossing jobs in the workforce. Moreover, this effect prevents women from filling high-ranking positions and puts them at a disadvantage as potential candidates for advancement.\n\nIn 1839, French feminist and author George Sand used a similar phrase, \"une voûte de cristal impénétrable\", in a passage of \"Gabriel\", a never-performed play: \"I was a woman; for suddenly my wings collapsed, ether closed in around my head like \"an impenetrable crystal vault\", and I fell...\" [emphasis added]. The statement, a description of the heroine's dream of soaring with wings, has been interpreted as a feminine Icarus tale of a woman who attempts to ascend above her accepted role.\n\nThe first person said to use the term \"Glass ceiling\" was Marilyn Loden during a 1978 speech. At the same time, according to the April 3, 2015, Wall Street Journal, completely independent of Loden, the term glass ceiling was coined in the spring of 1978 by Marianne Schriber and Katherine Lawrence at Hewlett-Packard. The ceiling was defined as discriminatory promotion patterns where the written promotional policy is non-discriminatory, but in practice denies promotion to qualified females. Lawrence presented this at the annual Conference of the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press at meeting the National Press.\n\nThe term was later used in March 1984 by Gay Bryant. She was the former editor of \"Working Woman\" magazine and was changing jobs to be the editor of \"Family Circle.\" In an \"Adweek\" article written by Nora Frenkel, Bryant was reported as saying, \"Women have reached a certain point—I call it the glass ceiling. They're in the top of middle management and they're stopping and getting stuck. There isn't enough room for all those women at the top. Some are going into business for themselves. Others are going out and raising families.\" Also in 1984, Bryant used the term in a chapter of the book \"The Working Woman Report: Succeeding in Business in the 1980s.\" In the same book, Basia Hellwig used the term in another chapter.\n\nIn a widely cited article in the \"Wall Street Journal\" in March 1986 the term was used in the\narticle's title: \"The Glass Ceiling: Why Women Can't Seem to Break The Invisible Barrier That Blocks Them From the Top Jobs\". The article was written by Carol Hymowitz and Timothy D. Schellhardt. Hymowitz and Schellhardt introduced glass ceiling was \"not something that could be found in any corporate manual or even discussed at a business meeting; it was originally introduced as an invisible, covert, and unspoken phenomenon that existed to keep executive level leadership positions in the hands of Caucasian males.\"\n\nAs the term \"Glass Ceiling\" got more issued within society, public responded with differing ideas and opinions. Some argued that glass ceiling is a myth rather than a reality because women chose to stay home and showed less dedication to advance into executive suite. As a result of continuing public debate, the US Labor Department's chief, Lynn Morley Martin, reported the results of a research project called \"The Glass Ceiling Initiative\" formed to investigate the low numbers of women and minorities in executive positions. This report defined the new term as \"those artificial barriers based on attitudinal or organizational bias that prevent qualified individuals from advancing upward in their organization into management-level positions.\"\n\nIn 1991, as a part of Title II of the Civil Right Act of 1991, Congress created the Glass Ceiling Commission. This 21 member Presidential Commission was chaired by Secretary of Labor Robert Reich, and was created to study the \"barriers to the advancement of minorities and women within corporate hierarchies (the problem known as the glass ceiling), to issue a report on its findings and conclusions, and to make recommendations on ways to dis- mantle the glass ceiling.\" The commission conducted extensive research including, surveys, public hearings and interviews, and released their findings in a report in 1995. The report, \"Good for Business\", offered \"tangible guidelines and solutions on how these barriers can be overcome and eliminated\". The goal of the commission was to provide recommendations on how to shatter the glass ceiling, specifically in the world of business. The report issued 12 recommendations on how to improve the workplace by increasing diversity in the organization and reducing discrimination through policy\n\nNumber of women CEOs from the Fortune Lists has been increasing from 2012–2014, but ironically women's labor force participation rate decreased from 52.4% to 49.6% between 1995 and 2015 globally. However, it is evident that some countries like Australia has increased the labor force participation of women over 27% since 1978. Furthermore, only 19.2% of S&P 500 Board Seats were held by women in 2014, of whom 80.2% were considered white.\n\nThe gender pay gap is the difference between male and female earnings. In 2008 the OECD suggested that the median earnings of female full-time workers were 17% lower than the earnings of their male counterparts and that \"30% of the variation in gender wage gaps across OECD countries can be explained by discriminatory practices in the labour market.\" The European Commission suggested that women's hourly earnings were 17.5% lower on average in the 27 EU Member States in 2008. A paper by political activist website \"nationalpartnership.org\" suggests that as of April 2017, women in the United States were on average paid \"80 cents for every dollar paid to men, amounting to an annual gender wage gap of $10,470\". It may help from a research perspective to note that there are many disagreeing viewpoints on this issue, and the research cited here is presented in favor of the side that asserts society's view on minorities is the cause of the pay gap. Moreover, \"based on the human capital theory, not only the general gender-specific pay differentials, but\nalso the different proportions of women and men in certain occupations and fields of work\nand thus the gender-specific labor market segregation is explained with the so-called self selection\".[https://www.binghamton.edu/economics/research/old-working-papers/docs/WP0413.pdf \"Occupational Self-Selection and the Gender Wage Gap:\nEvidence From Korea and United States\".] In economics, there are various essential theories that describe the illegitimate part of the gender pay\ngap. Gary S. Becker’s theory of “tastes of discrimination” indicates that there are some personal\nprejudices which concern cooperation with a certain group of people. [ Becker, G. S. (1971): The Economics of Discrimination. Chicago/London: Univ. of Chicago\nPress.]\n\nIn addition to the glass ceiling, which already is stopping women from climbing higher in success in the workplace, a parallel phenomenon called the \"glass escalator\" is occurring. This can be defined as how more men are joining fields that were previously occupied mainly by women, such as nursing and teaching, and within these job fields, the men are riding right past women and going straight to the top, similarly to if they were on an escalator and a woman was taking stairs. Men are being offered more promotions than women and even though women have worked just as hard, they are still not being offered the same chances as men are in some circumstances. The chart from Carolyn K. Broner shows an example of the glass escalator in favor of men for female-dominant occupations in schools. While women have mostly occupied the position of teachers, men are taking the higher positions in school systems as deans or principals.\n\nResearch on the career paths of men who have occupations in female-dominated fields, such as nursing or teaching, come to a conclusion that men benefit financially from their gender status. This can be extended to say that men are able to abuse their gender advantages in such contexts, often \"reaping the benefits of their token status to reach higher levels in female-dominated work.\" Not only are males taking power from women in more female oriented jobs, but they are rising to the top more steadily than females.\n\nA 2008 study published in \"Social Problems\" found that sex segregation in nursing did not follow the \"glass escalator\" pattern of disproportional vertical distribution; rather, men and women gravitated towards different areas within the field, with male nurses tending to specialize in areas of work perceived as \"masculine\". The article noted that \"men encounter powerful social pressures that direct them away from entering female-dominated occupations (Jacobs 1989, 1993)\". Since female-dominated occupations are usually characterized with more feminine activities, men who enter these jobs can be perceived socially as \"effeminate, homosexual, or sexual predators\".\n\nIn the literature on gender discrimination, the concept of \"sticky floors\" complements the concept of a glass ceiling. Sticky floors can be described as the pattern that women are, compared to men, less likely to start to climb the job ladder. Thereby, this phenomenon is related to gender differentials at the bottom of the wage distribution. Building on the seminal study by Booth and co-authors in European Economic Review, during the last decade economists have attempted to identify sticky floors in the labour market. They found empirical evidence for the existence of sticky floors in countries such as Australia, Belgium, Italy, Thailand and the United States.\n\nSimilar to the sticky floor, the frozen middle describes the phenomenon of women's progress up the corporate ladder slowing, if not halting, in the ranks of middle management. Originally the term referred to the resistance corporate upper management faced from middle management when issuing directives. Due to a lack of ability or lack of drive in the ranks of middle management these directives do not come into fruition and as a result the company's bottom line suffers.The term was popularized by a \"Harvard Business Review\" article titled \"Middle Management Excellence\". Due to the growing proportion of women to men in the workforce, however, the term \"frozen middle\" has become more commonly ascribed to the aforementioned slowing of the careers of women in middle management. The 1996 study \"A Study of the Career Development and Aspirations of Women in Middle Management\" posits that social structures and networks within businesses that favor \"good old boys\" and norms of masculinity exist based on the experiences of women surveyed. According to the study, women who did not exhibit stereotypical masculine traits, (e.g. aggressiveness, thick skin, lack of emotional expression) and interpersonal communication tendencies are at an inherent disadvantage compared to their male peers. As the ratio of men to women increases in the upper levels of management, women's access to female mentors who could advise them on ways to navigate office politics is limited, further inhibiting upward mobility within a corporation or firm. Furthermore, the frozen middle affects female professionals in western and eastern countries such as the United States and Malaysia, respectively, as well as women in a variety of fields ranging from the aforementioned corporations to STEM fields.\n\nIn 2017, the \"Economist\" updated their glass-ceiling index. It combines data on higher education, labour-force participation, pay, child-care costs, maternity and paternity rights, business-school applications and representation in senior jobs. The countries where inequality was the lowest were, in order of most equality, Iceland, Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Poland.\n\nIn a 1993 report released through the U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences, researchers noted that women have the same educational opportunities as their male counterparts, the Glass Ceiling persist due to systematic barriers, low representation and mobility, and stereotypes. Feminine stereotypes attributed to women is one widely-recognized reason as to why female employees are systematically inhibited from receiving advantageous opportunities in their career field. Majority of Americans perceive women to be more emotional and men to be more aggressive than their opposite sex. Gender stereotypes influence how leaders are chosen by employers and how workers of different sex are treated. Glass ceilings can be observed in the typical American supermarket in which women are assigned to be cashiers due to the belief that women are better than their male co-workers at emotional management with customers. Journeyman clerks whom are mostly assigned cashier shifts experience a low quality of work and significantly less promotions. A class action law suit was filed against Lucky Stores for the unjust assignment of tasks to employees of different race and sex. Moreover, one of the stereotypes towards women in workplaces is \"gender status belief\" which claims that men are more competent and intelligent than women, thus they have much higher positions in the career hierarchy. Ultimately, this factor leads to perception of gender-based jobs on the labor market, so men are expected to have more work-related qualifications and hired for top positions.[https://www.econstor.eu/bitstream/10419/29811/1/605208190.pdf \"Glass Ceiling Effect and Earnings - The Gender Pay Gap in\nManagerial Positions in Germany\".] Perceived feminine stereotypes contribute to the glass ceiling faced by women in the workforce.\n\nThe second shift focuses on the idea that women theoretically work a second shift in the manner of having a greater workload, not just doing a greater share of domestic work. All of the tasks that are engaged in outside the workplace are mainly tied to motherhood. Depending on location, household income, educational attainment, ethnicity and location. Data shows that women do work a second shift in the sense of having a greater workload, not just doing a greater share of domestic work, but this is not apparent if simultaneous activity is overlooked. Alva Myrdal and Viola Klein as early as 1956 focused on the potential of both men and women working in settings that included paid and unpaid types of work environments. Research indicated that men and women could have equal time for activities outside the work environment for family and extra activities. This \"second shift\" has also been found to have physical effects as well, especially for women. Women whom engage in longer hours in pursuit of family balance, often suffer more mental health issues such as depression, anxiety, and other problems. Irritability, low motivation and energy, and other emotional issues have been found as well. The overall happiness of women can be improved if the balance of career and home responsibilities are met.\n\n\"Mommy Track\" is a term used to describe women who simply disregard their career and professional duties in order to satisfy the needs of their families. Women are often subject to long work hours that creates an imbalance within the work-family schedule. There is research suggesting that women were able to function on a part-time professional schedule compared to others who worked full-time while still engaged in external family activities. The research also suggests, flexible work arrangements allow for the achievement of a healthy work and family balance. A difference has also been discovered in the cost and amount of effort in childbearing amongst women in higher skilled positions and roles, as opposed to women in lower-skilled jobs. This difference leads to women delaying and postponing goals and career aspirations over a number of years. A large number of women across the country who have vocational/professional certifications and degrees have been found to be not a part of the working force at the estimated rate more than twice times as male counterparts. Also, the \"Deloitte Touche\", a professional hiring service firm, confirmed that they had recorded dropout rates in each entering class of hires and reported that indeed women's rates were very high compared to males due to mother- and family-related responsibilities.\n\nMaternal brain is a term that is also associated with the glass ceiling. Maternal brain is a hormonal and brain change that occurs during pregnancy.\n\nThe term \"concrete floor\" has been used to refer to the minimum number or the proportion of women necessary for a cabinet or board of directors to be perceived as legitimate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24203863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24203863", "title": "Human rights in Argentina", "text": "Human rights in Argentina\n\nThe history of human rights in Argentina is affected by the Dirty War and its aftermath. The Dirty War, a state-sponsored violence against Argentine citizenry from roughly 1976 to 1983, was carried out primarily by Jorge Rafael Videla's military government, ended years ago, and the human rights situation in Argentina has improved since.\n\nAccording to the \"Nunca Más\" report issued by the National Commission on the Disappearance of Persons (CONADEP) in 1984, about 9,000 people had \"disappeared\" between 1976 and 1983. According to a secret cable from DINA (Chilean secret police) in Buenos Aires, an estimate by the Argentine 601st Intelligence Battalion in mid-July 1978, which started counting victims in 1975, gave the figure of 22,000 persons. This estimate was first published by John Dinges in 2004. Estimates by human rights organizations were up to 30,000. The Montoneros admitted losing 5,000 guerrillas killed, and the ERP admitted the loss of another 5,000 of their own guerrillas killed. By comparison, Argentine security forces cite 775 deaths of their own. In contrast, there were 13,500 victims of left-wing terrorism in Argentina. There is no agreement on the actual number of \"detenidos-desaparecidos\". In an interview with Buenos Aires daily \"Clarin\" in 2009, Fernandez Meijide, who formed part of the 1984 truth commission, claimed that the \"documented\" number of Argentines killed or disappeared was closer to 9,000. The \"Asemblea por los Derechos Humanos\" (APDH or Permanent Assembly for Human Rights) estimated the number of disappeared as 12,261, which included \"definitive disappearances\" and PEN detainee survivors of the clandestine detention centres spread throughout Argentina. The total figure of official prisoners was 8,625 and of these PEN detainees 157 were killed after being released from detention. Between 1969 and 1979 left-wing guerrillas accounted for 3,249 kidnappings and murders. CONADEP also recorded 458 assassinations (attributed to the Argentine Anticommunist Alliance) and about 600 forced disappearances during the period of democratic rule between 1973 and 1976.\n\nThe laws of \"Obediencia debida\" (\"Due Obedience\") and \"Punto Final\" (\"Stop\") known as the laws of impunity were annulled by the Supreme Court on June 14, 2005 using the concept of crimes against humanity, after on April 19, 2005 the Third Chamber of the Spanish National Court sentenced the naval officer, Adolfo Scilingo, for crimes against humanity, which was confirmed by the Spanish Supreme Court on October 1, 2007. The principle used by the sentence was ratified by the European Court of Human Rights in the case Petr Kislyiy against Estonia on January 17, 2006 and Inter-American Court of Human Rights ruling in the Case of Almonacid on September 26, 2006. The fact that these statements recognize the application of this concept of international law in ordinary courts is a milestone in the history of international human rights. This situation led to the opening of some trials in Cordoba, Corrientes, Tucumán and Buenos Aires and there are several on the procedural schedule. Sentences confirmed the implementation of the concept of \"crimes against humanity\", but investigations were not adequate to international law, or have joined the investigation and prosecution procedures as consistent with the types of crimes arising from international criminal law. This affects, using ordinary criminal law standards, the type of testing needed and who may be charged. There procedural certainty is impossible to substantiate the thousands of lawsuits pending across the country and to keep the current procedure.\n\nWhile the government or its agents did not commit any politically motivated killings, there are reports that police committed killings involving unwarranted or excessive force. Generally, officers accused of wrongdoing are administratively suspended until completion of an investigation. Authorities investigated and in some cases detained, prosecuted, and convicted the officers involved.\n\nThe nongovernmental organization (NGO) Coordinator Against Police Repression (CORREPI) reported that security forces using excessive force killed more than 200 persons each year.\n\nIn January 2008 local victim advocacy organization Madres del Dolor filed a court case accusing two policemen of killing 21-year-old Sergio Enciso in Buenos Aires Province. The case remained pending at year's end.\n\nAccording to Madres del Dolor, a judge detained five police officers and the police chief of Ramos Mejia in Buenos Aires Province for the February death of 35-year-old Gaston Duffau after an official autopsy confirmed that the victim died from multiple blows to the body and asphyxia. The police officials involved remained in pretrial detention at year's end.\n\nThere are no known developments in the case of Carlos Madrid, an off duty Buenos Aires police sergeant, who was in pretrial detention for the November 2007 killing of Daniel Ezequiel Cespedes.\n\nIn July 2008 a court sentenced police officer Dario Poblete to life imprisonment for the April 2007 killing of school teacher Carlos Fuentealba during a teachers' strike in Neuquen.\n\nIn September a Jujuy provincial court sentenced one police officer to life imprisonment and another to four years in prison for the 2006 death of Saul Mendoza. The court acquitted a third officer and continued to investigate a fourth.\n\nThere were no known developments in the trial of two former police officers and a civilian charged with homicide in the 2006 beating and shooting death of 15-year-old Miguel Eduardo Cardozo.\n\nHuman rights groups stated to the press that ex-police officer Marta Jorgelina Oviedo was serving her life imprisonment sentence for the 2002 killing of Andrea Viera under house arrest.\n\nIn August 2008 the government, as recommended by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights in 2003, reopened an investigation into the 1991 killing by police forces of Walter Bulacio. The trial remained pending at year's end.\n\nIn contrast with the systematic forced disappearance of persons under the military dictatorship, the situation has greatly improved and there were no reports of politically motivated disappearances in 2008.\n\nJudicial proceedings related to killings, disappearances, and torture committed by the 1976-83 military dictatorship continue to this day. According to a human rights organization, the Center for Legal and Social Studies (CELS), by the end of 2008, there were 255 ongoing judicial investigations and an estimated 508 persons indicted for crimes against humanity committed during the Dirty War era. Of those indicted, 358 remained in pretrial detention. At least 14 former state security agents and their civilian allies were convicted of human rights crimes, including forced disappearances and kidnappings. A November 2008 Noticias Argentinas press report, compiling information provided by the National Prosecutor General's Office, stated that 32 individuals had been convicted for crimes against humanity since 2003, 371 suspects remained in pretrial detention, and 61 persons remained fugitives from justice. In March 2008 a federal court decided that crimes committed by the Argentine Anti Communism Alliance before and during the military dictatorship were crimes against humanity and therefore not subject to the statute of limitations.\n\nThe press, civil society, and legal scholars express concern that the government's efforts to pursue justice for human rights crimes committed during the military dictatorship does not include armed guerrilla groups that also were accused of committing abuses during the same time period.\nIn January 2008 a court released the wife and two children of former naval official Hector Febres, who died of cyanide poisoning in prison while facing charges of torture. They still faced charges on suspicion that they helped Febres commit suicide. In March a federal court released two Coast Guard constables who were arrested in connection with the case.\n\nIn March 2008 the National Human Rights Secretariat pressed homicide charges against former economy minister Jose Martinez de Hoz, who served under the military dictatorship, for the death of economist Juan Carlos Casariego Del Bel.\n\nIn March 2008 former navy lieutenant commander Ricardo Cavallo was extradited from Spain to Argentina to face charges of crimes against humanity committed during the military dictatorship. Cavallo was indicted in July and remained in pretrial detention at year's end.\n\nIn May 2008 federal authorities indicted Ernesto Barreiro for his role in committing human rights abuses during the military dictatorship, when he served as an army officer and chief interrogator at the La Perla clandestine torture center. He remained in pretrial detention at year's end.\n\nIn April 2008 former police officers Fernando Esvedes and Carlos Vercellone were arrested for their alleged role in political kidnappings and torture in the clandestine detention center Pozo de Arana during the military dictatorship, and their trial remained pending at year's end.\n\nIn July former army chief Luciano Benjamin Menendez and former army officials Oreste Valentin Padovan, Ricardo Alberto Ramon Lardone, Carlos Alberto Diaz, and Luis Alberto Manzanelli were sentenced to life imprisonment for human rights violations committed during the military dictatorship. Former army officials Hermes Oscar Rodriguez, Jorge Exequiel Acosta, and Carlos Alberto Vega received sentences ranging from 18 to 22 years' imprisonment.\n\nIn August 2008 former army lieutenant colonel Julio Rafael Barreiro was sentenced to life imprisonment, while former captain Juan Carlos de Marchi and former colonel Horacio Losito were sentenced to 25 years' imprisonment for their role in human rights violations during the military dictatorship. Former gendarmerie commander Raul Alfredo Reynoso was sentenced to 18 years.\n\nIn August 2008 a human rights trial against former brigadier general Enrique Braulio Olea, former colonels Oscar Lorenzo Reinhold and Mario Alberto Gomez Arenas, former major Luis Alberto Farias Barrera, former military officers Jorge Eduardo Molina Ezcurra and Sergio Adolfo San Martin, and doctor Hilarion de la Paz Sosa began in Neuquen Province. The former military officials were accused of 17 counts of crimes against humanity committed during the military dictatorship.\n\nIn September 2008 a federal judge resumed an investigation into the 1973 killing of General Labor Confederation leader Jose Ignacio Rucci, in which the armed guerrilla group, the Montoneros, was believed to have been involved.\n\nIn October 2008 federal authorities indicted former National University Concentration chief Eduardo Cincotta, former member Nicolas Cafarello, three former air force officials, and former army colonel Roberto Atilio Bocalandro for human rights crimes committed in the clandestine detention center La Cueva in Mar del Plata. They remained in pretrial detention at year's end.\n\nIn October 2008 former army officials Alberto Barda, Hipolito Mariani, and Cesar Comes received sentences ranging from 25 years' to life imprisonment for human rights violations committed in the clandestine detention centers of Mansion Sere and La Cueva.\nIn December the Court of Criminal Appeals ordered that 21 military officials accused of human rights violations during the military dictatorship be freed on bail, including two of the most notorious suspects, ex-naval captains Alfredo Astiz and Jorge Acosta. The three-judge panel noted that the men had spent more than five years in detention without a trial, far in excess of the two-year legal limit for pretrial detention. The prosecutors, CELS, and the Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo subsequently appealed the decision, and the officers remained in detention pending a Supreme Court decision. The government sought to impeach the judges who ordered the release.\n\nThere were no developments in the 2006 missing persons case of Jorge Julio Lopez, a key witness in the case against Miguel Etchecolatz, former commissioner general of the Buenos Aires Province police.\n\nJudicial authorities continued to investigate cases of kidnapping and illegal adoption by members of the former military dictatorship of children born to detained dissidents. At year's end, 96 of an estimated 500 persons born to detained and disappeared dissidents and illegally adopted had been identified and made aware of their true backgrounds.\n\nIn April 2008 a court sentenced a military official to 10 years in prison for his role in facilitating the illegal adoption of Maria Eugenia Sampallo Barragan, the daughter of political dissidents killed during the military dictatorship. This was the first case of its kind, and Sampallo's adoptive parents were sentenced to seven and eight years' imprisonment.\n\nAlthough the law prohibits such practices and provides penalties for torture similar to those for homicide, there are reports that some police and prison guards continue to employ torture and brutality. CELS reported police brutality and occasional alleged torture of suspects, particularly during prison transfers. While the government has investigated such reports, there were few convictions.\n\nIn 2008, according to CELS, a prison detainee in the Olmos, Buenos Aires, provincial prison asserted he had received knife injuries from a senior prison official in the presence of another prison official. A detainee in the Sierra Chica Prison in Buenos Aires Province filed a complaint for being subjected to solitary confinement for 45 days with no clothes or food. A 17-year-old minor also filed a complaint alleging that police agents in a police station in Hurlingham, Buenos Aires Province, subjected him to electrical shocks. Two lower ranking navy officials and a civilian remained in pretrial detention for the 2006 kidnapping, beating, torture, and killing of 15-year-old Lucas Ivarrola, were accused of stealing a television set. A trial date had not been set by year's end.\n\nThe country's prisons remain in inhumane conditions, and prisoners often spend years in jail before trial. Police are still abusing this power, hitting and sometimes torturing people in police stations, and even been some instances of new \"desaparecidos\" (\"disappeared\").\n\nPrison conditions often are poor and life-threatening; in many facilities, extreme overcrowding, poor nutrition, inadequate medical and psychological treatment, inadequate sanitation, limited family visits, and frequent inhuman and degrading treatment are common, according to various reports by human rights organizations and research centers. The research center Unidos por la Justicia estimated prison overcrowding at 20 percent nationwide, while credible press reports estimated prison overcrowding in Buenos Aires Province exceeded 25 percent.\n\nThe Buenos Aires Provincial Memory Commission's Committee Against Torture reported that, during the first 11 months of the year in Buenos Aires provincial prisons, there were 86 prisoner deaths and 5,169 violent incidents, resulting in injuries to 4,800 prisoners. According to an earlier report from the committee covering the first half of the year, authorities repressed violent incidents with rubber bullets and sticks on 564 occasions. The committee attributed the violence to inmate attacks on fellow prisoners and on prison officials. The committee also criticized the provincial prison health-care system.\n\nIn April 2008 federal criminal prosecutor Francisco Mugnolo filed a case with the Supreme Court arguing that inadequate federal control over federal prisons resulted in human rights violations and torture of some prisoners. He also released a report claiming that 63 percent of federal prisoners in the second half of 2007 had experienced physical aggression.\n\nAlso in April, Alfredo Emiliano Fleitas, a prisoner in Villa Devoto Prison, petitioned the courts for a writ of habeas corpus after having been beaten by prison guards in February during a transfer to Ezeiza Prison. Fleitas was hospitalized as a result of his injuries and underwent surgery to restore his vision. In August 2008 the Buenos Aires Provincial Supreme Court ordered the Provincial Criminal Court of Appeals to decide a collective habeas corpus case filed by CELS on behalf of provincial prisoners who were subject to mistreatment and violence during prison transfers.\n\nWhile women were held separately from men, the law permits children to stay in prison with their mothers until age four. Press reports estimated that 86 children under the age of four lived with their mothers in federal prisons, with an additional 75 in Buenos Aires provincial prisons. In general men's prisons were more violent, dangerous, and crowded than the women's prisons.\n\nOvercrowding in juvenile facilities often resulted in minors being held in police station facilities, although separate from adult detainees. According to a 2007 UN Children's Fund and National Secretariat for Human Rights report, these institutions held approximately 20,000 children, 20 percent of whom were under age 16. The overwhelming majority had not committed a crime; rather, they were abandoned by their families or considered \"at risk\" for other reasons.\n\nPretrial detainees often were held with convicted prisoners. CELS estimated that 53 percent of those in federal prison were awaiting trial.\nIn November 2008 the Buenos Aires Provincial Court initiated trial proceedings in the case against Buenos Aires Magdalena Provincial Prison Director Carlos Tejeda and 15 prison guards and officials accused of abandoning prisoners in a 2005 fire that killed 33 prisoners.\n\nThe government permitted prison visits by local and international human rights observers, and such visits have been taking place.\n\nThe law prohibits arbitrary arrest and detention, and the government generally observes these prohibitions; however, police reportedly arrests and detains citizens arbitrarily on occasion. The federal police have jurisdiction for maintaining law and order in the federal capital and for federal crimes in the provinces. Other federal police authorities include the Airport Security Police, the Gendarmerie, the Coast Guard, and the Bureau of Prisons. Additionally, each province has its own police force that responds to a provincial security ministry or secretariat. Individual forces vary considerably in their effectiveness and respect for human rights. Corruption is widespread in some forces, and internal controls to counter police abuses are often weak.\n\nThe most frequent abuses include extortion of, and protection for, those involved in drug trafficking, prostitution, and trafficking in persons.\n\nThe federal security forces have the authority to conduct internal investigations into alleged abuses and to fire individuals who have allegedly committed a human rights violation. The federal government can also file complaints with the federal courts; provincial governments may do the same for provincial security forces. Members of security forces convicted of a crime were subject to stiff penalties. In 2008, authorities in Buenos Aires Province removed more than 700 police officers for corruption and other offenses.\n\nPolice may detain suspects for up to 10 hours without an arrest warrant if the authorities have a well-founded belief that the suspects have committed, or are about to commit, a crime or are unable to determine the suspected person's identity. Human rights groups report that the police often detains suspects longer than 10 hours.\n\nThe law provides a person in detention with the right to a prompt determination of the legality of the detention, which entails appearance before a criminal lower court judge, who determines whether to proceed with an investigation. There are frequent delays in this process and in informing detainees of the charges against them.\n\nThe law provides for the right to bail, except in cases involving narcotics, violent crimes, and firearms violations. Although the bail system was used, civil rights groups claimed that judges were more likely to order the holding of indicted suspects in preventive or pretrial detention than to allow suspects to remain free pending their trial. In November 2008 the highest penal court broadly ruled that pretrial detention should be the exception to the rule, except in cases where a suspect represents a flight risk or may act to obstruct justice. Detainees are allowed prompt access to counsel, and public defenders were provided for detainees unable to afford counsel, although such access sometimes was delayed due to an overburdened system. Strong demand and a lack of resources for the Public Defender's Office results in an excessive caseload for public defense attorneys.\n\nAlthough there are no official statistics on the percentage of detainees requesting public defense attorneys, human rights organizations estimated that 80 percent requested public defense attorneys. Detainees also were allowed access to family members, although not always promptly.\n\nThe law provides for investigative detention of up to two years for indicted persons awaiting or undergoing trial; the period may be extended for one year in limited situations. The slow pace of the justice system often resulted in lengthy detentions beyond the period stipulated by law. CELS reported that prisoners waited an average of three years to be tried, with some cases taking as long as six years to go to trial. A convicted prisoner usually received credit for time already served. In 2008, in Buenos Aires Province, provisional statistics from CELS indicated that nearly 75 percent of detainees were in pretrial detention, while the Buenos Aires Provincial Memory Commission Committee Against Torture reported that 78 percent of the approximately 26,000 detainees in provincial prisons were awaiting trial.\n\nAccording to several human rights organizations, 30 percent of pretrial detainees were eventually acquitted. According to the Memory Commission's committee, there were approximately 6,500 complaints of human rights violations against juvenile detainees in provincial prisons and juvenile detention facilities, the majority of which were pending investigation. In July 2008 the Buenos Aires Provincial Supreme Court inaugurated an ad hoc juvenile justice system, which operated in eight out of 18 provincial districts. It provides minors age 16 to 18 the same procedural rights as adults and limits sentences to 180 days in prison. In August 2008 the minister of justice announced that he had instructed police forces to conform standard operating procedures for arresting minors to international standards; however, by year's end, there was no information on application of procedures.\n\nThe law provides for the right to a fair trial, and the judiciary generally enforced this right. However, there are complaints that some lower court federal judges, provincial judges, and judicial personnel were inefficient and at times subject to political manipulation. Justice organizations are particularly critical of the lack of independence of lower court judges with federal jurisdiction in many provinces. The judicial system is hampered by inordinate delays, procedural logjams, changes of judges, inadequate administrative support, and general inefficiency caused by remnants of the inquisitorial criminal justice system used in federal and many provincial courts. Judges have broad discretion as to whether and how to pursue investigations, contributing to a public perception that many decisions were arbitrary. Allegations of corruption in provincial courts as well as federal courts located in the provinces were more frequent than federal courts with jurisdiction over the city and province of Buenos Aires, reflecting strong connections between the executive and judicial branches at the provincial level. In May 2008 the Congress passed a law establishing a process to appoint temporary judges in response to a 2007 Supreme Court order. However, legal scholars expressed concern that the law encourages delays in the selection of permanent judges and increases the executive branch's authority to appoint temporary judges without public vetting. At year's end, there were 160 vacant judgeships nationwide. There were some criticisms in the press that interim judges were subject to political manipulation due to the temporary nature of their position.\n\nThe judicial system is divided into federal and provincial courts, both headed by a supreme court with appellate courts and district courts below it. The federal courts are divided between the criminal and civil courts. In August 2008 the Congress voted to abolish the military justice system, thus making members of the military subject to civil proceedings for crimes committed during peacetime and to a new military disciplinary code for infractions of military rules.\n\nTrials are public, and defendants have the right to legal counsel and to call defense witnesses in the federal and some provincial courts that have an accusatory system of criminal justice. If needed, a public defender is provided at public expense when defendants face serious criminal charges. During the investigative stage, defendants can submit questions in writing to the investigating judge. A panel of judges decides guilt or innocence. Federal and provincial courts continued the transition to trials with oral arguments in criminal cases, replacing the old system of written submissions. Although the 1994 constitution provides for trial by jury, implementing legislation had not been passed by year's end. In Cordoba Province, however, defendants accused of certain serious crimes have the right to a trial by jury. Lengthy delays in trials are a nationwide problem, with many cases taking five or more years to resolve. Defendants are presumed innocent and have the right to appeal, as do prosecutors. Minors under age 16 cannot be criminally prosecuted. By law defendants and attorneys have access to government held evidence, but they may experience significant obstacles or delays in obtaining such evidence. In 2008, the human rights organization Fundacion Sur noted that the country lacked a separate juvenile justice system that affords adolescents due process protections and the right to a legal defense in criminal cases and expressed concern that the broad discretion judges have in such cases increased the possibility of arbitrary rulings. The age of legal liability is 16, and Fundacion Sur asserted that 16- and 17-year-old offenders frequently were transferred to adult criminal courts or held in juvenile detention centers for longer periods than warranted by their offenses. A December 2008 Supreme Court decision found that the country's juvenile justice system did not comply with international conventions and highlighted the need for the legislative branch to remedy the situation.\n\nThere were no reports of political prisoners or detainees.\n\nThere is an independent and impartial judiciary in civil matters, and anyone may bring lawsuits seeking damages or the protection of rights provided by the constitution. Government agencies, professional bar associations, universities, and NGOs provide free legal counseling and may represent indigent persons before civil courts as well as assist them in alternative dispute resolution proceedings.\n\nThe constitution prohibits such actions, and the government generally respected these prohibitions in practice.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of speech and of the press, and the government generally respected these rights in practice.\nIndividuals can criticize the government publicly or privately, but there are criminal penalties, including prison sentences, for libel and slander, and government officials have sought to use these against the political opposition and other critics. The government pressed criminal libel and slander charges against Elisa Carrio, head of the opposition Civic Coalition party, for accusing officials in 2004 of corruption. In September 2008 Carrio won a civil case brought by the son of a deceased Peronist leader whom she accused of being involved in official corruption, murder, and drug trafficking; it was the second such case she had won.\nIn December 2008 security forces arrested 26 \"neo-Nazis,\" including four minors, on discrimination charges for conducting a ceremony to commemorate the death of World War II German naval captain Hans Langsdorff. All individuals subsequently were released but still faced discrimination charges.\n\nThe independent media are numerous and active and express a wide variety of views without restriction.\n\nNumerous FM radio stations continue to broadcast with temporary licenses pending conclusion of a licensing normalization process.\nIn August 2008 AM radio signal Radio Continental, which had been critical of the government, filed a complaint before the Federal Broadcasting Committee (COMFER) for its decision to suspend its FM broadcast. Although the complaint was not resolved by year's end, COMFER did not enforce its decision, and the station continued to broadcast on the FM frequency.\n\nIn August 2008 the Association for Civil Rights and the Open Society Justice Initiative published a report alleging that the government's allocation of state advertising funds affected press freedom. The report claimed that the government abused the distribution of state advertising to benefit or punish the press according to the tone of their coverage of the administration. This assessment coincided with press reports and comments made in private by media organization leaders.\n\nAccording to the Association for Civil Rights, the Neuquen provincial government had not complied by the end of 2008 with a 2007 Supreme Court order to present an official advertising distribution plan that would not indirectly curtail freedom of speech. The 2006 lawsuit lodged by the country's second largest media company, Grupo Editorial Perfil, against the federal government's use of government advertising as a means of indirect censorship remained pending at year's end.\n\nJournalist Sergio Poma died in January 2008 while awaiting appeal of a September 2007 Salta provincial court decision that sentenced him to a one-year suspended prison term and barred him from practicing journalism for one year for slandering the former governor of Salta.\n\nIn November 2008 labor activists from the teamsters union, led by Hugo Moyano, vice president of the ruling Peronist Party and leader of the General Labor Confederation (CGT), blocked a newspaper distribution center jointly run by the country's two leading newspapers, Clarin and La Nacion. The union maintained that the protest was technically for better wage and working conditions for the teamsters that drive newspaper distribution trucks. However, media organizations and the opposition criticized the government failure to break up the blockade and called it a direct attack on press freedom; the two newspapers filed criminal charges against the perpetrators.\n\nThere are no government restrictions on access to the Internet or reports that the government monitored e mail or Internet chat rooms. Individuals and groups can engage in the peaceful expression of views via the Internet, including by e mail. According to the government's National Statistics and Census Institute, there are more than three million residential Internet users.\n\nThere are no government restrictions on academic freedom or cultural events.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of assembly and association, and the government generally respects these rights in practice.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice. The constitution also states that the federal government \"sustains the apostolic Roman Catholic faith,\" and the government provided the Catholic Church with a variety of subsidies not available to other religious groups. Other religious faiths were practiced freely.\n\nIn order to hold public worship services, obtain visas for foreign missionaries, and obtain tax exempt status, religious organizations must register with the Secretariat of Worship in the Ministry of Foreign Relations, International Trade, and Worship and report periodically to maintain their status.\n\nActs of discrimination and vandalism against religious minorities, particularly the 300,000 member Jewish community, continued. During the year, the Delegation of Israeli Argentine Associations (DAIA) received approximately 202 complaints of anti Semitic acts. The most commonly reported incidents were desecration of Jewish cemeteries, anti Semitic graffiti, verbal slurs, and other forms of harassment.\n\nIn August 2008 Raul Arenas Vega was sentenced to nine months' imprisonment for the 2006 beating of an Orthodox Jewish teenager in Buenos Aires.\nThe investigation continued into the 1994 bombing of the Argentine Jewish Mutual Aid Association (AMIA) building in Buenos Aires that killed 85 persons. In May 2008 a federal prosecutor called for the indictment of former President Carlos Menem, former federal judge Juan Galeano, and others for their alleged role in covering up and protecting those involved in the attack. Subsequently, the presiding federal judge, following recommendations from the AMIA Special Prosecutor, issued an international request for the seizure of assets belonging to eight Iranians and Hezbollah to cover damages being claimed by the civil suit brought against the perpetrators. In December the judge ordered the seizure of six commercial properties allegedly belonging to a former Iranian cultural attache who was among those accused of aiding in the attack.\n\nThere are still no developments in DAIA's case against activists from the left wing group Quebracho that prevented Jewish community groups from demonstrating in front of the Iranian Embassy in 2006.\n\nThe government continues to support a public dialogue to highlight past discrimination and to encourage improved religious tolerance.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of movement within the country, foreign travel, emigration, and repatriation, and the government generally respected these rights in practice.\n\nThe government cooperates with the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and other humanitarian organizations in providing protection and assistance to refugees, asylum seekers, and other persons of concern.\n\nThe law prohibits forced exile, and the government did not exile anyone.\n\nThe law provides for the granting of asylum or refugee status in accordance with the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 protocol, and the government has established a system for providing protection to refugees. The government granted refugee status or asylum.\n\nThe law allows the government to provide temporary protection for humanitarian reasons, including family reunification, to individuals who may not qualify as refugees under the 1951 convention and the 1967 protocol.\n\nAccording to the government's Refugee Eligibility Committee, in the first 11 months of 2008, 745 persons sought asylum, and the government granted refugee status to 89 persons. The government continues to cooperate with the UNHCR to resettle at risk Colombian refugees. According to the UNHCR, the country also resettled 39 Colombians in the first six months of the year.\n\nIn practice the government provides protection against the expulsion or return of refugees to countries where their lives or freedom would be threatened. The government grants refugee status and temporary protection for humanitarian reasons.\n\nThe law provides citizens the right to change their government peacefully, and citizens exercised this right in practice through periodic, free, and fair elections based on universal suffrage.\n\nNational presidential and legislative elections took place in October 2007. At the national level, one half of the seats in the Chamber of Deputies and one third of those in the Senate were contested. The media, the Ministry of Justice, and various NGOs observed the elections and judged them free and fair, although several opposition parties filed a complaint alleging that ballots listing opposition candidates were not available at voting stations in some provinces.\n\nProvincial elections in Santiago del Estero Province took place in orderly fashion in November.\n\nPolitical parties generally operated without restriction.\n\nDecrees provide that one third of the members of both houses of congress must be women, a goal achieved through balanced election slates. There were 28 women in the 72 seat Senate and 103 women in the 256 seat Chamber of Deputies. The president, two of the seven Supreme Court justices, and four cabinet ministers were women. Women constituted approximately 17 percent of top executive-branch positions at the federal level.\n\nOne indigenous person served in the Chamber of Deputies. There were no other known ethnic or racial minorities in the national legislature. There were no known indigenous, ethnic, or racial minorities in the cabinet or on the Supreme Court.\n\nThe law provides criminal penalties for official corruption; however, there were frequent press reports that executive officials engaged in corrupt practices, suggesting a failure to implement the law effectively.\nAccording to the World Bank's worldwide governance indicators, government corruption is a serious problem. Historically weak institutions and an often ineffective and politicized judicial system make rooting out corruption in any systemic fashion difficult.\n\nPublic officials are subject to financial disclosure laws, and the Ministry of Justice's Anti Corruption Office (ACO) is responsible for analyzing and investigating federal executive branch officials based on their financial disclosure forms. The ACO also is responsible for investigating corruption within the federal executive branch or in matters involving federal funds, except for funds transferred to the provinces. Although nominally a part of the judicial branch, the ACO does not have authority to prosecute cases independently, but it can refer cases to other agencies or serve as the plaintiff and request a judge to initiate a case. Individual judges investigated most high-profile corruption cases, but prosecutions were not expected in a number of such cases that began in 2007.\n\nThe minister of defense dismissed 31 senior officers and officials in August 2008 and another 13 in September 2008 following investigations into corrupt practices, and in September the army chief of staff resigned following his indictment over the illegal diversion of public funds in 2002 in another command. Judicial authorities were pursuing the investigations with the ministry's support.\n\nAccording to press reports, the minister of health continued to push for greater transparency in the procurement of pharmaceuticals by the agency responsible for providing medicines to senior citizens following allegations of price fixing and overcharging by suppliers, many of whom were also reportedly prominent campaign contributors in 2007. In November 2008 the agency head resigned at the government's request.\n\nIn December 2008 a foreign plea agreement by the German corporation Siemens identified by their initials and titles several high level officials in former governments as having accepted multimillion-dollar bribes in the controversial procurement of a national identification card system.\nInvestigations conducted by the NGO Poder Ciudadano in June and the National Electoral Court in September 2008 cited irregularities in the campaign finance reports of the 2007 presidential candidates. Their findings concluded that some candidates underreported their official campaign expenses, particularly regarding advertising costs; others overreported their expenses; and some received anonymous donations, which is prohibited by law. Poder Ciudadano's report also alleged that public resources were used to promote President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner's campaign.\n\nAn executive decree provides for public access to government information from executive agencies, which are required to answer requests for public information within 10 working days, with a possible 10-day extension. The capacity to comply with this requirement, however, varies across executive agencies. Poder Ciudadano estimates that executive branch agencies answered such requests within the required timeframe approximately 70 percent of the time. The NGO notes that politically sensitive requests, such as the operational costs of the presidency, often were delayed or went unanswered.\n\nA wide variety of domestic and international human rights groups generally operates without government restriction, investigating and publishing their findings on human rights cases. Government officials usually are cooperative and generally responsive to their views.\n\nWhile the government cooperates with some international and local NGOs, the local chapter of a well-known international organization expressed concern in 2008 that, despite repeated requests, the government did not provide information under a freedom of information decree.\nThe government has a Human Rights Secretariat and a National Ombudsman's Office.\n\nThe law prohibits discrimination based on race, gender, disability, language, or social status, and the government generally enforced these prohibitions in practice.\n\nIn 1985, Argentina ratified the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). Despite this, women are the constant target of aggressive machism. Domestical violence including marital rape, widespread pornography and teenaged female prostitution as well as political underrepresentation are effects of the Argentinian machist patriarchy.\n\nDomestic violence in Argentina against women is a serious problem. Rape, including spousal rape, is a crime, but the need for proof, either in the form of clear physical injury or the testimony of a witness, often presented difficulties in prosecuting such crimes. In August 2008 Amnesty International reported that a woman died every two days as a result of domestic violence. According to press reports quoting the Buenos Aires Provincial Ministry of Security statistics, 52,351 complaints of domestic abuse were filed at the Women's Police Stations in Buenos Aires Province in the first 10 months of the year.\n\nTrafficking of women to and within the country for prostitution is a problem.\n\nAlthough the government voices strong commitment to children's rights and welfare, many programs remain underfunded.\nIn September 2008 the Congress passed a law that maintained the 40-day timeframe in which parents can register the birth of their children but reduced from six years to 20 days the time thereafter for the state to register the births if parents failed to do so. For a birth occurring without medical assistance or outside a medical center, the government may authorize late registration up until one year after the birth; thereafter, only judges may order birth registrations.\n\nWhile the law provides for free and compulsory education for 13 years, beginning at age five, it has not been enforced effectively. The governor of Buenos Aires estimates that there were approximately 400,000 children who neither worked nor attended school in Buenos Aires Province alone.\nChild abuse continues to occur and is not uncommon; for example, a University of Buenos Aires study released in August 2008 noted that 56 kindergartens and primary schools in Buenos Aires Province had detected 1,590 cases of family violence in the previous year. The government does however take some measures to combat child abuse.\n\nThe National Council for Children, Adolescents, and the Family continues to conduct public awareness campaigns and operates a national hot line, which children use to call for advice, make complaints, and report instances of abuse or other rights violations. Prosecutors and police pursue cases of Internet child pornography. In June 2008 the Congress passed a law criminalizing child pornography; however, the law does not penalize possession by individuals for personal use. The press and local NGOs reported that children were involved in sexual exploitation, sex tourism, and drug trafficking. Drawing on police statistics, the press estimates that approximately 5,000 children are recruited every year for pornography activities and sex tourism.\n\nAccording to credible local press reports, dozens of child victims of violence from poor families are lodged in juvenile detention centers under judicial protection orders. City government observers are barred from visiting the centers. Local NGO Fundacion Sur express concern that the children may be subject to inhumane conditions and submitted a writ of habeas corpus in 2008 asking the courts to release the children and investigate the 2007 cases of two adolescents who allegedly committed suicide in separate incidents after having been raped while in detention. In December 2008 the Supreme Court rejected the petition but acknowledged the need to pass legislation to bring the juvenile justice system into compliance with international norms.\n\nIn December 2008 the newspaper La Nacion reported that a local NGO estimated that 3,000 children under five years of age died from malnourishment in 2008, down one-third since 2003.\n\nIn April 2008 the Congress passed a law criminalizing trafficking in persons, largely due to the Marita Veron case. The country is still a source, transit point, and destination for trafficked persons.\n\nTrafficking in persons primarily involves citizens trafficked within the country for the purposes of sexual and labor exploitation. They were trafficked mostly from the northern provinces to the central provinces and Buenos Aires and from Buenos Aires to several southern provinces. To a lesser degree, the country is a destination for victims, principally women and minors from Paraguay, the Dominican Republic, Bolivia, and Brazil.\nWhile there are no official reports on the activities of traffickers, the media reports that traffickers often present themselves as employment agencies or as individual recruiters. Credible sources also identify large organized crime networks, which sometimes consisted of extended families plus their business associates, including recruiters and brothel managers. Traffickers confiscated travel documents to prevent victims from appealing to authorities for protection. Victims, particularly women and girls in prostitution, at times are denied contact with the outside world. Victims often are threatened or beaten.\n\nTraffickers can be prosecuted under the new federal law, which provides penalties for trafficking ranging from three to 15 years in prison, depending on the nature of the violation and the age of the victim. Traffickers have been prosecuted on charges of prostitution through fraud, intimidation, and coercion or, in the case of minors, alien smuggling, indentured servitude, and similar abuses.\n\nTrafficking investigations and arrests increased in 2008. According to Ministry of Justice statistics, internal security agencies conducted 118 raids, arrested 120 persons suspected of human trafficking, and rescued 133 victims in the six-month period after the law took effect in late April. However, only 33 of those arrested remained in detention as of November. Official statistics on the number of prosecutions and convictions for trafficking during the year were unavailable. The Ministry of Justice was the lead agency for coordinating antitrafficking efforts with internal security agencies.\n\nThere are no allegations of federal government official involvement in trafficking. However, there are reports of widespread corruption and collusion with traffickers at provincial and local levels, which impeded prosecution. There are some efforts to investigate and prosecute local police and officials suspected of involvement in human trafficking.\n\nThere are no developments in the investigation of local police and official involvement in a 2006 case where women were forced into prostitution in Chubut Province. Press reports indicated that the two former police officers, who were charged in 2006, were reassigned without facing disciplinary actions. In March, 14 women were rescued from forced prostitution in brothels that continued to operate in the area.\n\nIn December 2008 a federal judge summoned the police commissioner, his deputy, and three other police officials for deposition as part of an investigation into alleged police protection of a ring of brothels suspected of human trafficking in the Mataderos neighborhood of Buenos Aies. In the same case, a woman running the brothel was indicted as an accessory to human trafficking, and her sister was also under investigation at year's end.\nTrafficking victims normally are not detained, jailed, or deported. The Ministry of Justice's training seminars for internal security forces included a component emphasizing that they not blame trafficking victims for illegal activities they may have become involved in as a consequence of their exploitation.\n\nLimited victims' assistance is provided by the Ministry of Justice's First Responder Office for the Rescue and Immediate Assistance of Trafficking Victims. It refers minor and adult victims rescued in the city or province of Buenos Aires to the Ministry of Social Development's Secretariat for Children, Adolescents, and the Family, which then may direct victims to existing social and medical assistance programs. Victims in other provinces usually were assisted by the relevant human rights secretariat. The Prosecutor General's Office of Victim's Assistance continues to provide assistance on an as-needed basis.\n\nAlthough it does not operate victim shelters dedicated to trafficking, the government funds one NGO to operate a victim's shelter. Some victims qualified for federal government assistance, but most provincial officials are not trained to identify or help victims of trafficking specifically. The International Organization for Migration assists with repatriation and reintegration of foreign victims of trafficking.\n\nThe constitution and laws prohibit discrimination against people with physical or mental disabilities in employment, education, access to health care, or the provision of other state services, but the government does not effectively enforce these laws. A specific law also mandates access to buildings for persons with disabilities; however, the government does not effectively enforce it.\n\nLaws mandating greater access to buses and trains for persons with disabilities also are not enforced fully. In March 2008 a federal court ordered the Buenos Aires subway operator Metrovias to make subway stations handicapped accessible. According to the Association for Civil Rights, only 12 of 73 subway stations were handicapped accessible.\n\nAccording to the National Institute Against Discrimination, Xenophobia and Racism (INADI), an estimated 20,000 children with disabilities were unable to attend school in Buenos Aires City in 2008 because the buildings were not handicapped accessible.\n\nIn March 2008 the Buenos Aires City Ombudsman pressed charges against eight long distance bus companies for failing to provide free bus tickets to persons with disabilities, as required by decree. Thereafter, INADI established a permanent office at the main bus terminal in Buenos Aires City and maintained a presence at many train and bus stations throughout the city on a rotational basis.\n\nA 2007 study by CELS and international NGO Mental Disability Rights International reported that 25,000 persons were detained in psychiatric institutions, more than 80 percent for more than a year. The report documented egregious cases of abuse and neglect in psychiatric institutions, including patients burned to death in isolation cells, the use of sensory deprivation in long-term isolation, and physical and sexual violence. The report also detailed dangerous and unhygienic conditions, including the lack of running water, nonfunctioning sewer systems, and fire and safety hazards.\n\nThe National Advisory Committee for the Integration of People with Disabilities, under the National Council for Coordination of Social Policies, has formal responsibility for actions to accommodate persons with disabilities.\n\nThe constitution recognizes the ethnic and cultural identities of indigenous people and states that the Congress shall protect their right to bilingual education, recognize their communities and the communal ownership of their ancestral lands, and allow for their participation in the management of their natural resources. In practice indigenous people do not fully participate in the management of their lands or natural resources, in part because responsibility for implementing the law is delegated to the 23 provinces, only 11 of which have constitutions recognizing indigenous rights.\n\nAlthough there is no formal process to recognize indigenous tribes or determine who is an indigenous person, indigenous communities can register with the provincial or federal government as a civic association.\n\nEstimates of the indigenous population ranged from 700,000 to 1.5 million. Poverty rates are higher than average in areas with large indigenous populations. Indigenous people have greater than average rates of illiteracy, chronic disease, and unemployment. The lack of trained teachers hampers government efforts to offer bilingual education opportunities to indigenous people.\n\nAccording to indigenous rights experts, 75 percent of disputed territory in Jujuy, which had been the subject of court orders in 2006 and 2007, was either returned to indigenous communities or in the titling process by the end of 2008.\n\nIn October 2008 the Supreme Court overruled a Salta provincial court decision to turn down an appeal by the Eben Ezer indigenous community, which asked the provincial court to issue an injunction preventing the sale of provincial land previously considered a natural reserve. The Supreme Court indicated that the provincial court's decision violated the constitution and instructed the provincial court to take into consideration the rights of indigenous people to use the resources found on ancestral lands.\n\nIn December 2008, in response to a lawsuit filed by 18 indigenous communities, the Supreme Court ordered Salta Province to suspend plans to cut approximately of forest, pending the outcome of a further hearing.\n\nAccording to a Minority Rights Group International report from 2008, many provinces evicted indigenous communities from ancestral lands to sell the land to multinational companies, particularly for petroleum, mining, soy industries, and tourism development.\n\nIn December 2008, after protesters from the Mapuche community staged a roadblock, the Chubut Provincial Supreme Court suspended a lower court order evicting a Mapuche family from land they had occupied since 1940. The protesters expressed concern that Chubut Province would evict more indigenous families to provide concessions to mining companies.\n\nThe land dispute between the Mbya Guaraní community and La Plata National University over claims to territory in Misiones Province is still without resolution.\n\nThe Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) continues to evaluate a petition presented by the Lhaka Honhat indigenous association regarding the national government's failure to implement a titling policy that would return their traditional land. The Lhaka Honhat association sent a letter to the IACHR in September 2008 asking for greater involvement and a timely resolution to the case.\n\nIn October 2008 three Mapuche families occupied land in the National Park of Nahuel Huapi in Neuquen Province in an attempt to obtain for other Mapuche communities. Park officials indicated that they already coexisted with five Mapuche communities in the area.\n\nAlso in October 2008 the first indigenous radio station, the Indigenous Voice, began broadcasting programs aimed at indigenous communities in Salta Province.\n\nDuring 2008, INADI received 82 complaints of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, 38 of which were resolved rapidly.\nIn July 2008 authorities arrested Sergio Alfredo Nunez, Silvio Elias Soria, and Cesar Javier Ulivarri in connection with the 2006 killing of transgender activist Pelusa Liendro, who was found stabbed in her car 10 days after the broadcast of an undercover videotape she and other activists made of police harassment and abuse of transgender persons in Salta Province. Nunez and Soria remained in pretrial detention at year's end. The court stayed legal proceedings against Rodolfo Aguilares and two other individuals.\n\nIn August 2008 the National Social Security Administration granted widowed homosexual partners the rights to inherit their partner's pension. Eligible partners must demonstrate that they lived with their partner for at least five years.\n\nINADI received 62 discrimination complaints on the basis of HIV positive status, 34 of which were resolved rapidly. The law prohibits termination of employment of HIV positive employees.\n\nIntersex people in Argentina have no recognition of their rights to physical integrity and bodily autonomy, and no specific protections from discrimination on the basis of sex characteristics. Cases also exist of children being denied access to birth certificates without their parents being pressured into consenting to medical interventions.\n\nThe law provides all workers, with the exception of military personnel, the right to form and join \"free and democratic labor unions, recognized by simple inscription in a special register,\" and workers exercised this right. An estimated 35 to 40 percent of the workforce was organized.\n\nThe Argentine Workers Central (CTA) and other labor groups not affiliated with the CGT contends that the Trade Unions Law provision for the legal recognition of only one union per sector conflicts with the International Labor Organization's (ILO) Convention 87 and prevents the CTA from obtaining full legal standing. In November 2008 the Supreme Court declared Article 41 of the Trade Unions Law unconstitutional and upheld the right of a workers' union lacking official legal recognition to elect its own delegates. In addition the ruling asserted that the Ministry of Labor's discretion in awarding official union recognition violates international treaties. The IACHR continues to review the CTA's 2004 petition to this day.\n\nUnions have the right to strike, although those representing civil servants and workers in essential services are subject to the condition that undefined \"minimum services\" are rendered. In some cases \"minimum services\" have already been incorporated in union bargaining agreements, but since the law does not define \"minimum services,\" civil servants and workers in essential services have the right to strike only after a compulsory 15-day conciliation process. Once that term expires, civil servants and workers in essential services must give five days' notice to the administrative authority and the public agency that they intend to strike. All parties then negotiate which minimum services will continue to be provided and a schedule for their provision. The public agency, in turn, must provide two days' notice to users about the intended strike. Other workers exercised the right to strike by conducting legal strikes.\n\nThe law provides unions with the right to negotiate collective bargaining agreements and to have recourse to conciliation and arbitration. The Ministry of Labor, Employment, and Social Security ratifies collective bargaining agreements, which covers roughly 75 percent of the formally employed workforce. According to the ILO, the ratification process impedes free collective bargaining because the ministry considered not only whether a collective labor agreement contained clauses violating public order standards but also whether the agreement complied with productivity, investment, technology, and vocational training criteria. However, there are no known cases of government refusal to approve any collective agreements under these criteria.\n\nThere are no special laws or exemptions from regular labor laws in the three functioning export processing zones.\n\nWhile the law prohibits forced or compulsory labor, including by children, there were isolated reports that such practices occurred.\n\nIn April police rescued 30 Bolivians, including children, who were working under exploitative conditions at a poultry farm in Capilla del Senor, Buenos Aires Province. In August 2008 the press reported that children and other workers were working in exploitative conditions at other farms owned by the same company. The provincial ministry of labor fined the company 364,000 pesos ($117,400) and was reviewing additional forced labor complaints, including two deaths, lodged against the company. Press reports indicated the company had not paid the fine by year's end.\n\nIn September 2008 an appeals court reversed a lower court decision dismissing a case of forced labor against the owners of a prestigious garment company that employed Bolivians working in sweatshops under exploitative conditions. The lower court had dismissed the case on the basis that the Bolivians were culturally predisposed to working under such conditions. The case remains under investigation.\n\nIn September 2008 a federal judge indicted the owner and the manager of a garment sweatshop that employed 50 Bolivians, including 20 minors. The judge froze 900,000 pesos ($290,000) in assets belonging to the owner and seized and transferred sewing machines to a social organization of the employees' choosing so they could continue working. The case remained pending at year's end.\n\nA Buenos Aires city court released four individuals in 2008 on probation in a 2006 case of forced labor. According to a local antislavery NGO, the individuals were charged for their role in operating clothing sweatshops in the Flores Sur neighborhood that left six Bolivian citizens dead and affected potentially hundreds more.\n\nThe law protects children from exploitation in the workplace. In 2004 the National Commission for the Eradication of Child Labor (CONAETI) estimated that up to 1.5 million children, or 22 percent of children under the age of 15, worked in some capacity, an estimate still considered valid.\nIn June 2008 the Congress passed a law raising the minimum age for employment from 14 to 15, which will increase to 16; in rare cases the Ministry of Education may authorize a younger child to work as part of a family unit. Children between the ages of 15 and 18 may work in a limited number of job categories and for limited hours if they have completed compulsory schooling, which normally ends at age 18. Legal penalties for employing underage workers ranged from 1,000 to 5,000 pesos ($303 to $1,515) for each child employed. Provincial governments and the city government of Buenos Aires are responsible for labor law enforcement.\n\nMost illegal child labor takes place in the informal sector, where inspectors have limited ability to enforce the law. Child labor includes such work as small scale garment production, trash recycling, street sales, domestic service, and food preparation and agricultural production.\n\nCONAETI conducts seminars with the 19 provincial commissions for the eradication of child labor to train provincial authorities responsible for enforcing labor laws and raising awareness regarding exploitive child labor. It also provides technical assistance to NGOs addressing child labor in the tobacco and trash-picking sectors, including workshops with tobacco producers to encourage corporate social responsibility on child labor issues. The government works with several NGOs to address the commercial sexual exploitation of children in the triborder area with Brazil and Paraguay, disseminating information on prevention and available assistance for victims. A trinational network involving local government and civil society was established in 2008 to help coordinate the antitrafficking efforts.\n\nThe government participates in the MERCOSUR \"Nino Sur\" (\"Southern Child\") initiative to defend the rights of children and adolescents in the region. The initiative includes unified public campaigns against commercial sexual exploitation, trafficking and child labor, mutual technical assistance, and the exchange of best practices related to victims protection and assistance.\n\nThe Ministry of Education also provides scholarships to reintegrate school dropouts and supported children who work and attend school. The program also provides parents with job search assistance and job training.\n\nThe government increased the monthly minimum wage in October, bringing the total monthly minimum wage to 1,440 pesos ($387). This exceeded the estimated amount of 1,013 ($272) a month needed by a family of four to maintain a \"decent\" standard of living. Most workers in the formal sector earned significantly more than the minimum wage. The Ministry of Labor, which is responsible for enforcing legislation related to working conditions, continued inspections to get companies to register their informal workers. In November the Ministry of Labor reported informal urban unemployment at 40 percent. According to a 2007 ILO study, 60 percent of employed citizens ages 15 to 24 were engaged in informal labor.\nFederal labor law sets standards in the areas of health, safety, and hours. The maximum workday is eight hours, and the maximum workweek is 48 hours. Overtime pay is required for hours worked in excess of these limits. The law sets minimums for periods of rest, requiring a minimum of 12 hours of rest to start a new workday. Sundays are holidays, and those required to work on Sundays are paid double. However, laws governing acceptable conditions of work were not enforced universally, particularly for workers in the informal sector.\nThe law requires employers to ensure their employees against accidents at the workplace and when traveling to and from work. Workers have the right to remove themselves from dangerous or unhealthy work situations without jeopardy to continued employment. However, workers who leave the workplace before it has been proven unsafe risk being fired; in such cases the worker has the right to judicial appeal, but the process can be very lengthy.\n"}
{"id": "56992381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56992381", "title": "Ikeja Bus Terminal", "text": "Ikeja Bus Terminal\n\nIkeja Bus Terminal is located Ikeja, the capital city of Lagos State. The bus terminal is located on the road to the local airport behind the present railway line in the city, and adjacent the state teaching hospital, ikeja general post office, all in the Computer Village neighbourhood.\n\nThe facility is sitting on a 10,000 square meter land space equipped with Intelligent Transport system (ITS), fully air-conditioned terminal, food courts, shops, ATM gallery, free WiFi, electronically controlled shades among others. According to reports, The Ikeja Bus terminal also has a large landmass for buses to park and load, large walk way for passengers, street lightning, rest rooms, control tower to monitor activities and greening with adequate exits.\n\nThe Ikeja bus terminal serves as the hub of all transport activities within the ikeja zone which will serve over 50,000 daily passengers and provide access to many destinations like oshodi, ojota, iyana-ipaja, Maryland, lekki, ogba, CMS among others.\n\nThe bus terminal was commissioned by President Muhammad Buhari GCFR on the 29th of March, 2018. In attendance were many other dignitaries starting from the Incubent governor of the state Governor Ambode, former governor of the state Bola Ahmed Tinubu among others.\n"}
{"id": "35142919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35142919", "title": "Ingain language", "text": "Ingain language\n\nIngain is an extinct Ge language of Brazil. Kimda may have been a dialect.\n"}
{"id": "26167407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26167407", "title": "Jiaobei", "text": "Jiaobei\n\nJiaobei blocks or moon blocks () are wooden divination tools originating from China, which are used in pairs and thrown to answer a yes or no question. They are made out of wood or bamboo and carved into a crescent shape. Each block is round on one side (known as the \"yin\" side) and flat on the other (known as the \"yang\" side). It is one of the more commonly used items found in Chinese traditional religion and are used in temples and home shrines along with fortune sticks, both of which are often used together when requesting an answer from the gods.\n\nJiaobei blocks can be used separately to receive a straightforward answer, or they are accompanied by fortune sticks to clarify an oracle. When used alone, jiaobei blocks are first purified by revolving the blocks around the incense burner three times. The querent then kneels and says their name, date of birth, residence, and question while cupping the blocks between their hands in prayer. After the querent poses the question to the gods, the blocks are dropped to the floor and land in a specific position. \n\nThere are four possible answers that the jiaobei blocks can produce:\n\n\nWhen used alone without the fortune sticks, the blocks are thrown three times in order to maintain accuracy of the deity's answer, a successful answer usually being three consecutive throws showing \"shèngjiǎo\", or best two out of three throws.\n\nAside from questioning the deities on mundane affairs, jiaobei blocks are also used to verify a range of issues, such as proper ritual protocol, spiritual presence of the gods or if they have eaten the offerings presented to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "54595811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54595811", "title": "Kaloeng language", "text": "Kaloeng language\n\nKaloeng (Kalerng, Kaleung) is a Southwestern Tai language of Thailand and Laos.\n\nIn Thailand, Kaloeng is spoken in Sakon Nakhon Province, Nakhon Phanom Province, and Mukdahan Province (Trongdee 2016). In Laos, it is spoken in Khammouan Province.\n\nMudjalin Luksanawong (2016:56) classifies the Kaloeng language as part of the Sakon Nakhon subbranch of the Southwestern Tai.\n\nIn the Sakon Nakhon languages, Proto-Tai *hw- and *w- (Pittayaporn 2009:134-135) became /ph/- (Trongdee 2016:55). Also, the Sakon Nakhon languages display the uncommon labiovelar initial clusters thw-, cw-, sw-, hw-, ŋw-, lw-, ʔw- (Trongdee 2016:56).\n\nThananan Trongdee (2016:68) classifies the Kaloeng dialects as follows according to the evolution of the Proto-Kaloeng diphthong *-aɯ.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35248021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35248021", "title": "Konni language", "text": "Konni language\n\nThe Koma language, Konni, is a Gur language of Ghana. Yikpabongo the main village of the Konni people. Another village is Nangurima.\n\nKoma has vowel harmony. The nine vowel phonemes of Konni are grouped into two sets according to the ATR feature:\n\nKoma is related to Mampruli, Hanga and Buli.\n"}
{"id": "33420193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33420193", "title": "Lhao Vo language", "text": "Lhao Vo language\n\nLhao Vo, also known as Maru and Langsu (), is a Burmish language of Burma with a few thousand speakers in China.\n\nDai Qingxia (2005:3) reports 5,600 Langsu speakers in China. Many thousands more are dispersed across the eastern edge of Kachin State, Burma.\n\nThe Langsu people call themselves \"lɔ̃˧˩ vɔ˧˩\" (Chinese: \"Lang'e\" 浪峨) (Dai 2003:3; Dai 2010:10)\n\nThe standard Lhaovo dialect is that of the Dagoʔ (\"tăkoʔ\") hill area, on the east side of N'Mai River valley in Kachin State.\n\nSawada (2017) lists the following patois (subvarieties) of Lhaovo.\n\nThe Langsong 浪宋 are found in Zaoyang 早阳 in Yunlong County (in the Chinese province of Yunnan) as well as in Baocun 表村, Laomo 老末, and Sancha 三岔. They reportedly speak a highly endangered language that may be possibly related to Langsu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14070967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14070967", "title": "List of Tai ethnic groups in India", "text": "List of Tai ethnic groups in India\n\nThe following is a list of Tai ethnic groups in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "45576225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45576225", "title": "List of ethnic groups in Tajikistan", "text": "List of ethnic groups in Tajikistan\n\nThe List of ethnic groups in Tajikistan is a page about the ethnic groups in Tajikistan by population through time.\n\n"}
{"id": "36139685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36139685", "title": "List of fastest-selling products", "text": "List of fastest-selling products\n\nThis is a list of the fastest-selling product superlatives. The definition of \"fastest-selling\" typically refers to sales results in the first week of a product's release, (i.e., which product had the biggest launch). Sometimes, rather than comparing sales figures relative to time, the target to be reached is fixed (e.g. sales at 5 million units), and the comparison is based upon how many weeks it takes to reach it (e.g. 52 weeks vs. 56 weeks).\n\n\n\n\n\n1. 2018 concert (South Korea) - \"EXO Planet #4 - The Elyxion dot\" at Gocheok Sky Dome. \"EXO\" maintained its own record again by selling all three days tickets (66000 tickets) in 0.2 seconds with more than 1 million people trying to buy it.\n\n2. 2017 Concert (South Korea) -- \"EXO Planet #3 - The ElyXion\" at Gocheok Sky Dome sold out (66000 tickets) in 0.2 seconds. Beating \"EXO\" own previous record of 0.4 seconds (67,040 tickets) from their second tour and being the fastest sold-out tour in the world\n\n3. 2015 Concert (South Korea) - \"EXO Planet #2 - The EXO'luxion\" sold out (67,040 tickets) in 0.4 seconds, which was a record-breaking and at a time was the fastest sold-out concert in the world, though \"EXO\" breaks the world record again in 2017 with their new concert tour \n\n4. 2014 Concert (South Korea) – \"EXO Planet #1 - The Lost Planet\" at the \"Olympic Gymnastics Arena\" sold out (42,000 tickets) in 1.47 seconds \n\n5.2012 Concert (Japan) – TVXQ \"\" at Tokyo Dome sold out (165,000 tickets) within 5 seconds.\n\n6.2008 Concert (Japan) – TVXQ \"3rd Live Tour ~T~ Concert\" at Saitama Super Arena sold out (40,000 tickets) in 1 minute.\n\n7.2013 Show (UK) – The return of Monty Python's \"Flying Circus\" at London's O2 Arena, sold out (14,500 tickets) in 43.5 seconds.\n\n8.2012 Concert (UK) – The Stone Roses at Manchester’s Heaton Park, sold out (220,000 tickets) in 68 minutes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26247810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26247810", "title": "List of gentlemen's clubs in Sri Lanka", "text": "List of gentlemen's clubs in Sri Lanka\n\nThis is a list of gentlemen's clubs in Sri Lanka, including those no longer functioning and from the further regions of British ruled Sri Lanka and those formed after British ruled. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9787140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9787140", "title": "Lovale people", "text": "Lovale people\n\nThe Luvale people, also called (in Angola) the \"Luena\" or \"Lwena\",are an ethnic group in Zambia and Angola. In Zambia they are found mainly in the North-Western Province of Zambia, centred in the town of Zambezi which was previously called \"Balovale\". Some Zambian Luvale have left their ancestral lands for economic reasons and can be found in other locations in Zambia such as Lukanga Swamp. There is also considerable Rural-Urban migration to Lusaka. In Angola they reside in eastern Moxico Province.\n\nThe Lovale people are not united under one paramount chief but are composed of a number of subgroups speaking the Lovale language or dialects of it. The Luvale language (sometimes called Lwena) is a west central Bantu language, and a tonal language. The Lovale are closely related to the Chokwe who ended the Lunda Kingdom, and Chokwe and Lunda people also live in the same area. \n\nIn Zambia the Luvale people hold the 'Makishi festival' to mark the end of the 'kumukanda' (or 'initiation'). Every 5 years or so, boys from the same age group (young teenagers) are taken into the bush for 1–2 months where they undergo several rites of passage into manhood. These involve learning certain survival skills, learning about women and how to be a good husband, learning about fatherhood, and also they are circumcised. The Luvale consider uncircumcised men to be dirty or unhygienic. It is said that in some very rural areas where the kumukanda is maintained in its strictest traditional sense that if a woman is to pass by the boy's 'bushcamp' whilst they are undergoing kumukanda then she must be punished.To celebrate the boys' completion of the kumukanda the Makishi festival welcomes them back to the village as men. The masks represent specific characters: Pwebo (a female character... 'pwebo' meaning 'woman' in Luvale) and Chizaluke amongst others.\n\nIn the Swedish 1997 murder mystery novel \"Faceless Killers\", Inspector Kurt Wallander investigates a murderous racist attack on a refugee center in Skane and finds it difficult to communicate with a witness who speaks only the Luvale language. The problem is resolved when a 90-year-old former woman missionary is found, who speaks Luvale fluently and acts as the interpreter.\n"}
{"id": "49890233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49890233", "title": "Marc Mauer", "text": "Marc Mauer\n\nMarc Mauer is the executive director of the Sentencing Project, a group that advocates for criminal justice reform and addressing racial disparities in the United States criminal-justice system.\n\nMauer received his bachelor's degree from Stony Brook University and his Master of Social Work from the University of Michigan.\n\nMauer's career in criminal justice began with the American Friends Service Committee in 1975, where he served as the National Justice Communications Coordinator before joining the Sentencing Project in 1987. He became the Project's executive director in 2005.\n\nMauer has been highly critical of the very high rate at which America incarceration both violent and nonviolent offenders in recent decades, and that \"we're well past the point of diminishing returns for public safety.\" He has also encouraged Congress to pass sentencing reform to combat what he says are the adverse effects of the War on Drugs.\n"}
{"id": "707406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707406", "title": "Marvin Heemeyer", "text": "Marvin Heemeyer\n\nMarvin John Heemeyer (October 28, 1951 – June 4, 2004) was an American welder and an automobile muffler repair shop owner most known for his rampage with a modified bulldozer. Outraged over zoning disputes, he armored a Komatsu D355A bulldozer with layers of steel and concrete and used it on June 4, 2004 to demolish the town hall, the former mayor's house, and other buildings in Granby, Colorado. The rampage ended when the bulldozer got stuck in the basement of a Gambles store he was in the process of destroying. Heemeyer then committed suicide.\n\nHeemeyer had been feuding with Granby officials, particularly over fines for violating city ordinances and a zoning dispute regarding a concrete batch plant constructed opposite his muffler shop.\n\nHeemeyer lived in Grand Lake, Colorado, about away from Granby. According to a neighbor, Heemeyer moved to town more than 10 years before the incident. Heemeyer's friends stated that he had no relatives in the Granby–Grand Lake area.\n\nJohn Bauldree, a friend of Heemeyer, said that Heemeyer was a likable person. Ken Heemeyer said his brother \"would bend over backwards for anyone\". While many people described Heemeyer as an affable person, local resident Christie Baker claimed that her husband was threatened by Heemeyer after refusing to pay for a disputed muffler repair. Baker said her husband later paid Heemeyer $124 via an intermediary.\n\nIn 1992, Heemeyer purchased of land from the Resolution Trust Corporation, the federal agency organized to handle the assets of failed savings and loan institutions. He purchased the land for $42,000 to build a muffler shop and subsequently agreed to sell the land to Cody Docheff to build a concrete batch plant, Mountain Park Concrete. The agreed price was $250,000. According to Susan Docheff, Heemeyer changed his mind and increased the price to $375,000 and later demanded a deal worth approximately $1 million. Some believed that this negotiation happened before the rezoning proposal was heard by the town council.\n\nIn 2001, the zoning commission and the town's trustees approved the construction of a concrete batch plant. Heemeyer attempted to appeal the decision but was unsuccessful. For many years, Heemeyer had used the adjacent property as a way to get to his muffler shop. The plan for the concrete plant blocked that access. In addition to the frustration engendered by this dispute over access, Heemeyer was subsequently fined $2,500 by the Granby town council for various violations, including \"junk cars on the property and not being hooked up to the sewer line\" that had been disconnected during construction of the concrete plant.\n\nHeemeyer leased his business to a trash company and sold the property several months before the rampage. He had bought a bulldozer two years before the incident, with the intention of using it to build an alternative route to his muffler shop, but city officials rejected his request to build it.\n\nNotes found by investigators after the incident indicated that the primary motivation for the bulldozer rampage was his plan to stop a concrete plant from being built near his shop. These notes indicated that he held grudges over the zoning approval. \"I was always willing to be reasonable until I had to be unreasonable\", he wrote. \"Sometimes reasonable men must do unreasonable things.\"\nHeemeyer took about a year and a half to prepare; in his notes he wrote: \"It is interesting to observe that I was never caught. This was a part-time project over a year time period.\" Clearly he was surprised that several men, who had visited the shed late the previous year, had not noticed the modified bulldozer \"...especially with the 2000-pound [900kg] lift fully exposed... Somehow their vision was clouded.\"\n\nThe machine used in the incident was a modified Komatsu D355A bulldozer, fitted with makeshift armor plating covering the cabin, engine, and parts of the tracks. In places, this armor was over thick, consisting of 5000-PSI Quikrete concrete mix sandwiched between sheets of tool steel (acquired from an automotive dealer in Denver), to make ad-hoc composite armor. This made the machine impervious to small arms fire and resistant to explosives: indeed three external explosions and more than 200 rounds of ammunition fired at the bulldozer had no effect on it.\n\nFor visibility, the bulldozer was fitted with several video cameras linked to two monitors mounted on the vehicle's dashboard; the cameras were protected on the outside by shields of bulletproof plastic. And compressed-air nozzles were fitted to blow dust away from the video cameras. Onboard fans and an air conditioner were used to keep Heemeyer cool while driving. He had made three gun-ports, fitted for a .50 caliber rifle, a .308 semi-automatic rifle, and a .22LR rifle, all fitted with a steel plate. Heemeyer apparently had no intention of leaving the cabin once he entered it. Authorities speculated that he may have used a homemade crane – found in his garage – to lower the armor hull over the dozer and himself. \"Once he tipped that lid shut, he knew he wasn't getting out\", Daly said. Investigators searched the garage where they believed that Heemeyer built the vehicle and found cement and armor steel.\n\nOnly Heemeyer died in the event (by a self-inflicted gunshot wound), but afterwards, the modified bulldozer came to be known as \"Killdozer\" (the name of a short story written by Theodore Sturgeon).\n\nOn June 4, 2004, Heemeyer drove his armored bulldozer through the wall of his former business, the concrete plant, the Town Hall, the office of the local newspaper that editorialized against him, the home of a former mayor's widow, and a hardware store owned by another man Heemeyer named in a lawsuit, as well as a few others. Owners of all of the buildings that were damaged had some connection to Heemeyer's disputes.\n\nThe attack lasted for two hours and seven minutes, damaging 13 buildings, knocking out natural gas service to City Hall and the concrete plant, damaging a truck, and destroying part of a utility service center. Despite the great damage to property, no one besides Heemeyer was killed. The damage was estimated at $7 million. According to Grand County commissioner James Newberry, Grand County emergency dispatchers used the reverse 911 emergency system to notify many residents and property owners of the rampage going on in the town.\n\nDefenders of Heemeyer contended that he made a point of not hurting anybody during his bulldozer rampage; Ian Daugherty, a bakery owner, said Heemeyer \"went out of his way\" not to harm anyone. Others offered different views. The sheriff's department argued the fact that no one was injured was not due to good intent as much as it must have been due to luck. Heemeyer had installed two rifles in firing ports on the inside of the bulldozer, and fired 15 bullets from his rifle at power transformers and propane tanks. \"Had these tanks ruptured and exploded, anyone within one-half mile (800 m) of the explosion could have been endangered\", the sheriff's department said; within such a range were 12 police officers and residents of a senior citizens complex. The sheriff's department also asserted Heemeyer fired many bullets from his semi-automatic rifle at Cody Docheff when Docheff tried to stop the assault on his concrete batch plant by using a wheel tractor-scraper, which was pushed aside by Heemeyer's bulldozer. Later, Heemeyer fired on two state patrol officers before they had fired at him. The sheriff's department also noted that 11 of the 13 buildings Heemeyer bulldozed were occupied until moments before their destruction. At the town library, for example, a children's program was in progress when the incident began.\n\nOne officer dropped a flash-bang grenade down the bulldozer's exhaust pipe, with no immediate apparent effect. Local and state patrol, including a SWAT team, walked behind and beside the bulldozer, occasionally firing, but the armored bulldozer was impervious to their shots. Attempts to disable the bulldozer's cameras with gunfire failed as the bullets were unable to penetrate the 3-inch (7.6 cm) bulletproof plastic. At one point during the rampage, Undersheriff Glenn Trainor climbed atop the bulldozer and rode the bulldozer \"like a bronc-buster, trying to figure out a way to get a bullet inside the dragon\". However, he was eventually forced to jump off to avoid being hit with debris.\n\nAt this point, local authorities and the Colorado State Patrol feared they were running out of options in terms of firepower, and that Heemeyer would soon turn against civilians in Granby. Then-governor Bill Owens allegedly considered authorizing the National Guard to utilize either an Apache attack helicopter equipped with a Hellfire missile or a two-man fire team equipped with a Javelin anti tank missile to destroy the bulldozer, only to deem the option unnecessary due to Heemeyer getting stuck in the Gambles hardware store. As late as 2011, Governor Owens' staff still vehemently denied considering such a course of action, but since then members of the State Patrol revealed that, to the contrary, the governor did consider authorizing an attack but ultimately decided against it due to the potential for collateral damage of a missile strike in the heart of Granby being significantly higher than what Heemeyer could have caused with his bulldozer.\n\nTwo problems arose as Heemeyer destroyed the Gambles hardware store. The radiator of the dozer had been damaged and the engine was leaking various fluids, and Gambles had a small basement. The bulldozer's engine failed, and Heemeyer dropped one tread into the basement, but couldn't get out. About a minute later, one of the SWAT team members, who had swarmed around the machine, reported hearing a single gunshot from inside the sealed cab. It was later determined that Heemeyer had shot himself in the head with a .357-caliber handgun.\n\nPolice first used explosives in an attempt to remove the steel plates, but after the third explosion failed, they cut through them with an oxyacetylene cutting torch. Grand County Emergency Management Director Jim Holahan stated that authorities were able to access and remove Heemeyer's body at 2:00a.m. on June 5.\n\nOn April 19, 2005, the town announced plans to scrap Heemeyer's bulldozer. The plan involved dispersing individual pieces to many separate scrap yards to prevent souvenir-taking.\n\nIn addition to writings that he left on the wall of his shed, Heemeyer recorded a number of audio tapes explaining his motivation for the attack. He mailed these to his brother in South Dakota shortly before stepping into his bulldozer. Heemeyer's brother turned the tapes over to the FBI, who in turn sent them to the Grand County Sheriff's Department. The tapes were released by the Grand County Sheriff's Office on August 31, 2004. The tapes are about 2.5 hours in length.\n\nThe first recording was made on April 13, 2004. The last recording was made 13 days before the rampage.\n\n\"God built me for this job,\" Heemeyer said in the first recording. He also said it was God's plan that he not be married or have a family so that he could be in a position to carry out such an attack. \"I think God will bless me to get the machine done, to drive it, to do the stuff that I have to do,\" he said. \"God blessed me in advance for the task that I am about to undertake. It is my duty. God has asked me to do this. It's a cross that I am going to carry and I'm carrying it in God's name.\"\n\nInvestigators later found Heemeyer's handwritten list of targets. According to the police, it included the buildings he destroyed, the local Catholic church (which he didn't damage), and the names of various people who had sided against him in past disputes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4843104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843104", "title": "Michael O'Neill (educator)", "text": "Michael O'Neill (educator)\n\nMichael O'Neill received a doctorate in education from Harvard University in 1967.\n\nHe is one of the pioneers in non-profit management education and founded the Institute for Nonprofit Organization Management at the University of San Francisco.\n\nBooks and monographs\n\n\nArticles, chapters, reviews\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35111747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35111747", "title": "Mukarram Khan Atif", "text": "Mukarram Khan Atif\n\nMukarram Khan Atif (died 17 January 2012) was a Pakistani journalist and reporter working for Dunya News and Deewa Radio. He was killed in Pakistan on 17 January 2012 by the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan because of his anti-Taliban reporting. He was the first reporter killed in Pakistan in 2012.\n\nMukarram Khan Atif had one wife and no children. He had arrangements to marry a second wife in February 2012. He had two brothers, the younger one named Muslim Khan. Mukarram Khan Atif and his family were native to the Mohmand tribal region. They were relocated after receiving threats from militants to Shabqadar, a subdivision of the Charsadda district roughly 15 miles north of Peshawar.\n\nMukarram Khan Atif was a reporter for Dunya TV and Deewa Radio, a Pashto language radio channel of the Voice of America's Pashto language service. He had been working for Deewa Radio since 2006. Atif was also the President of the Mohmand Agency Press Club.\n\nSafiullah, the bureau chief of Dunya TV, stated that Atif was a pleasant, hard worker. David Ensor, director for Voice of America, stated \"Atif risked his life on a daily basis to provide his audience with fair and balanced news from this critical region and we mourn the loss of our colleague.\" Atif was trained to educate journalists on how to protect themselves.\n\nOn 17 January 2012 Mukarram Khan Atif was praying in a mosque near Peshawar after sunset. Local police officers told reporters that two armed men came in and killed him with several shots, some to the head. They fled on motorcycles. Nasruminallah, an Imam at the mosque, was also injured in the attack.\n\nAtif was taken to Lady Reading Hospital in Peshawar where Rahim Jan, a senior doctor, stated that he was dead before he arrived.\n\nHis funeral prayer was offered on the Subhan Khur high school grounds. Police were present to avert any unwanted actions at the funeral and burial grounds. Despite the fears of attack, many different people, including members of Tribal Union of Journalists and journalists from Peshawar, attended the funeral. No government officials attended. Atif was buried in Akhwand Zafar Baba graveyard of Shabqadar.\n\nEhsanullah Ehsan, a spokesperson for the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, claimed responsibility for Atif's murder. In a telephone conversation with Peshawar journalists, Ehsan stated \"We have been warning him to stop his propaganda against us in the foreign media. He did not include our version in his stories.\"\n\nMany people condemned Mukarram Khan Atif's murder. The list includes:\n\n\nIn response to Atif's death, Reporters Without Borders stated \"The Pakistani authorities must at all costs take action to protect journalists, especially those who are subjected to threats. Otherwise, there will be no improvement in conditions.\"\n"}
{"id": "52882896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52882896", "title": "Nana Akufo-Addo administration controversies", "text": "Nana Akufo-Addo administration controversies\n\nNana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo took office as Ghana's president on January 7, 2017 after winning the December 2016 presidential elections. A number of controversies have arisen under his administration.\n\nNana Akufo-Addo was accused of lifting parts of his inauguration speech from previous addresses given by former US presidents Bill Clinton and George W Bush. This led to a public uproar with some deeming it as an embarrassment to the country and calling for the sacking of the speechwriter or for someone to take responsibility. The Director of Communication at the Presidency subsequently issued an apology. Some public figures also called for Ghanaians to disregard the incident. Akufo-Addo has since referred to the incident in jest at a thanksgiving service he attended. \n\nImmediately after Nana Akufo-Addo was sworn in, a letter dated 19 December 2016 signed by Julius Debrah, former chief of staff, became public. It contained a message that former President John Dramani Mahama would want to keep Bungalow No 3 in Accra and its adjoining facilities as his retirement home and Bungalow No 6 in Accra as his office.\n\nThere were also claims in the media that Mahama wanted to buy the house he currently resides in, which he rebutted with a statement dated Tuesday 10 January, and further withdrawing his request completely. Akufo-Addo commended Mahama for withdrawing his request to the residential and office accommodation.\n\nA NDC MP for Bawku Central and member of the appointment committee responsible for vetting ministerial appointees alleged that members of the minority on the committee were offered Gh¢ 3,0000 to influence their judgement and facilitate the approval of energy minister designate Boakye Agyarko. Two minority MPs, Alhassan Suhiyini and Samuel Okudzeto Ablakwa have publicly corroborated Ayariga's claim and jointly petitioned the speaker of parliament to probe the matter. Ablakwa further claimed that four other minority MPs, Sampson Ahi, Eric Opoku, Nii Lante Vanderpuye and Yiele Chireh, questioned the source of the money since it was not a part of their sitting allowance, and fearing it could be a bribe also promptly returned it. Ayariga's allegations also revealed that the money was handed out to the MPs by the minority chief whip Muntaka Mubarak as coming from chairman of the vetting committee Joe Osei Owusu in favour of the energy minister designate. As of January 30, 2017 all accused persons in the chain of giving the bribe have denied any involvement.\n\nOpposition to the nomination of Otiko Afisa Djaba to become minister for Gender, Children and Social Protection by minority legislators led to the speaker of the house subjugating her approval to a secret balloting among members of the floor of parliament. The minority walked out of the voting process. Their major concern was that she refused to apologize to the ministerial appointment committee for referring to John Mahama in her capacity as national women's organizer of NPP during a political rally in 2016 at Asawase as \"extremely wicked\", \"evil\", \"corrupt\", \"a failure\" and \"an embarrassment\" to northerners, adding that \"he is a violent person\" with the \"heart of a devil\" and another tenure for John Mahama will result in \"years of more corruption, unemployment and poverty\". She maintains that her comments were non-provocative and that she does \"not owe anybody an apology\", continuing to insist on her use of the same language to describe the former president. Other concerns were that Afisa Djaba backed assertions that Electoral Commission chairperson Charlotte Osei was appointed to her position in exchange for sex. Issues were also raised about the failure of Afisa Djaba to do her one-year mandatory national service to the country in violation of \"The Ghana National Service Scheme Act 426 section 7\" which states that \"a person who has not commenced and completed his or her period of national service shall not; (b) be employed by any other person outside the Scheme\". Otiko Afisa Djaba obtained 152 favorable votes in excess of the 50% required to secure her the position.\n\nPresident Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo says government would fund the cost of public senior high schools (SHS) for all those who qualify for entry from the 2017/2018 academic year onward. Questions as to how the ruling government would fund this policy have been raised. Policy Think Tank, IMANI Ghana has already questioned how the government will fund the policy. However, former Director-General of the Ghana Education Service, Charles Aheto-Tsegah said the government’s decision to roll out the free Senior High School education policy this year is feasible but there must be some changes in the national budgetary expenditure. Senior minister, Minister Yaw Osafo Marfo, said the Heritage Fund which receives nine percent of the country’s annual petroleum revenue will be used to sustain the program. Minority leader, Haruna Iddrisu disagreed saying government’s decision to tap into reserved oil revenue (Heritage Fund) to finance its free senior high school (SHS) policy would be fatal for Ghana’s future because it might compromise the safety of the country as it was set aside to serve as a buffer during challenging economic times. The President said, \"By free SHS, we mean that in addition to tuition, which is already free, there will be no admission fees, no library fees, no science center fees, no computer laboratory fees, no examination fees, no utility fees. There will be free textbooks, free boarding and free meals and day students will get a meal at school for free. \"Free SHS will also cover agricultural, vocational and technical institutions at the high school level\".\n\nPresident Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has made a total of 110 ministerial appointments as the team he wants to work with to run the affairs of Ghana. The number by far is the highest number of ministerial appointments made by any Ghanaian President. His appointment named three deputies for ministries like Finance, Information, Local Government and Rural Development as well as Energy. The Minority leader of the opposition National Democratic Congress, Haruna Iddrissu has indicated that the elephant sized government by the president will put pressure on the limited public purse, adding that the President has created a government equal to the size of his party symbol. Pressure group, Occupy Ghana has also hit hard at the government, arguing that the President will be promoting corruption with the large number of ministers he wants to work with and went on to question the commitment of the President to protect the public purse. Responding in the media about a large size government for a small country such as Ghana, then Minister for Information Mustapha Hamid jabbed at critics stating that \"We never promised a lean government\". The information minister further indicated that the only way to solve the huge problems created by the erstwhile administration and to fulfill their promises is by appointing an army of ministers.\n\nVigilante groups loyal to the government known as the Delta Force went on rampage and forcefully ejected the nominee as Ashanti regional security coordinator nominated by the president. Also the group Delta Force stormed the circuit court in Kumasi and freed 13 members of their group forcefully who have been arrested by the Ghana Police for acts of vandalism and lawlessness in court custody.\n\nEight members of the NPP's vigilante group, Delta Force accused of facilitating the escape of members of the group from lawful custody who were standing trial for allegedly assaulting the Regional Security Coordinator, Mr George Agyei and destroying property at the Ashanti Regional Coordinating Council (ARCC) have had the charges against them dropped. The Attorney General concluded there was insufficient evidence against the accused persons hence had the case dropped.\n\nThe Bulk Oil Storage and Transportation (BOST) was in the news to have sold 5 million litres of contaminated fuel to an unlicensed company Movepiina and Zup Oil which is alleged to have caused Ghana to lose 7 million Ghana Cedis in revenue. The Minister of Energy Mr. Boakye Agyarko came out to say the BNI has cleared BOST of any wrong doing which the Minority in Parliament believes its a cover up by the Government on in the contaminated fuel saga.\n\nThe Finance Minister of Ghana Mr Ofori-Atta’s in April 2017 issued a US$2.25 Billion bond. The minority in Parliament, National Democratic Congress called for a probe into the bond for lack of transparency, a tendency of the bond affecting the welfare of Ghanaians and a possible conflict of interest involving the Finance Minister. The minority went on to petition the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and summoned the Finance Minister to Parliament. In responding to the claims by the minority, the finance Minister said the process in securing the bond was transparent and went on to defend the bond. The Council of State was accused of negotiating with the Minority to stop pursuing the bond saga, however the Council of State denied ever engaging with the minoirty on the bond saga.\n\nIn 2017, the Akuffo Addo government swore in 110 ministers, the largest ever government in Ghana since the beginning of the fourth republic. Members of the minority in parliament as well as some government organisations raised some concerns about the size of the government. \n\nOn December 2017, the Ministry for Special Development and Initiatives (first of its kind formed by the Akuffo Addo Government) headed by Mavis Hawa Koomson budgeted to use Gh¢800,000.00 to build a new website. This generated a lot of backlash from the minority in parliament and also sparked a lot of controversy on social media which saw many Ghanaians joining the fray. Despite the uproar the budget was approved due to the ruling party’s majority in parliament. \n\nThe ministry of information on 27 December 2017 led by the minister Ursula Owusu Ekuful awarded Kelni GVG company a controversial contract of US$89.4 million to monitor and track revenues by the TELCOS in Ghana. The said contract generated a lot of controversies among many Ghanaians and the minority in parliament describing it as unnecessary and waste of tax payers money.\n\nThe President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo issued a statement to have the Deputy Minister for Youth and Sports , Pius Enam Hadzide along side the acting Director General of the National Sports Authority, Robert Sarfo Mensah suspended . In a statement signed by Eugene Arhin , the Director of Communications at the Jubilee House , the decisiveness was taken after preliminary investigations conducted into the arrest and deportation of some sixty (60) Ghanaians, who had allegedly attempted to enter Australia by false pretenses in the name of being journalists to cover the on going 21st.Commonwealth Games in Australia.\n\nTwo staff of the National Sports Authority (NSA) , Hussein Akuetteh Addy and Christine Ashley were detained by the BNI upon their arrival in Ghana from Australia where they were earlier implicated in the running visa scandal for fake journalists. They were granted bail after a brief detention by the Bureau of National Investigations (BNI) but have since been suspended.\n\nPresident Nana Akufo-Addo in June 2018 sacked the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission, Charlotte Osei and her two deputies, Amadu Sulley and Georgina Opoku Amankwaa from office.\n\nIn pursuant to Article 146(4) of the Constitution,the Chief Justice, Justice Sophia Akuffo set up a committee to investigate separate complaints brought against the three persons by citizens of Ghana ,their findings recommended their removal from office on the basis of stated misbehavior and incompetence, pursuant to Article 146 (1) of the Constitution of Ghana.\n\nA statement by then Minister for Information, Mustapha Abdul-Hamid on Thursday, 28 June 2018, said the President had directed the three persons to hand over their respective schedules to the Director of Human Resources at the Commission, while thanking them for their service to the country.\n"}
{"id": "905278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=905278", "title": "Nanotechnology education", "text": "Nanotechnology education\n\nNanotechnology education involves a multidisciplinary natural science education with courses such as physics, chemistry, mathematics and molecular biology. It is being offered by many universities around the world. The first program involving nanotechnology was offered by the University of Toronto's Engineering Science program, where nanotechnology could be taken as an option.\n\nHere is a partial list of universities offering nanotechnology education, and the degrees offered (Bachelor of Science, Master of Science, and/or Ph.D in Nanotechnology).\n\n\n\nA list of the master's programs is kept by the UK-based Institute of Nanotechnology in their Nano, Enabling, and Advanced Technologies (NEAT) Post-graduate Course Directory.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nImportant:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn recent years, there has been a growing interest in introducing nanoscience and nanotechnology in grade schools, especially at the high school level. \nIn the United States, although very few high schools officially offer a two-semester course in nanotechnology, “nano” concepts are bootstrapped and taught during traditional science classes using a number of educational resources and hands-on activities developed by dedicated non-profit organizations, such as:\n\n\nIn Egypt, in2nano is a high school outreach program aiming to increase scientific literacy and prepare students for the sweeping changes of nanotechnology.\n\n"}
{"id": "571011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=571011", "title": "Northern Lights (novel)", "text": "Northern Lights (novel)\n\nNorthern Lights (known as The Golden Compass in North America and some other countries) is a young-adult fantasy novel by Philip Pullman, published by Scholastic UK in 1995. Set in a parallel universe, it features the journey of Lyra Belacqua to the Arctic in search of her missing friend, Roger Parslow, and her imprisoned uncle, Lord Asriel, who has been conducting experiments with a mysterious substance known as \"Dust\".\n\n\"Northern Lights\" is the first book of a trilogy, \"His Dark Materials\" (1995 to 2000). Alfred A. Knopf published the first US edition April 1996, entitled \"The Golden Compass\". Under that title it has been adapted as a 2007 feature film by Hollywood and as a companion video game.\n\nPullman won the 1995 Carnegie Medal from the Library Association, recognising the year's outstanding British children's book. For the 70th anniversary of the Medal, it was named one of the top ten winning works by a panel, composing the ballot for a public election of the all-time favourite. \"Northern Lights\" won the public vote from that shortlist and was thus named the all-time \"Carnegie of Carnegies\" on 21 June 2007.\n\nThe novel is set in a world dominated by an international theocracy, the Magisterium (also commonly called \"the Church\"), which actively suppresses heresy. In this world, humans' souls naturally exist outside of their bodies in the form of sentient \"dæmons\", talking animal spirits that constantly accompany, aid, and comfort their humans. Children's dæmons can freely and instantaneously change their appearance into that of any real or mythical creature; once people reach puberty, however, their dæmons settle into one permanent form.\n\nTwelve-year-old Lyra Belacqua runs wild with her dæmon Pantalaimon around Jordan College, Oxford, under the guardianship of the college's Master. One day, she witnesses the Master poison wine intended for Lord Asriel, Lyra's rebellious and adventuring uncle. She warns Asriel not to drink the wine, then spies on his lecture about \"Dust\", mysterious elementary particles attracted to adults more than children. Asriel shows the college scholars images of a parallel universe seen through the Northern Lights amidst a concentration of Dust. The scholars agree to fund his controversial research, which is considered heretical by the oppressive Church.\n\nLyra's friend Roger goes missing, presumed kidnapped by mysterious child abductors called \"Gobblers\". Mrs Coulter, a charming socialite, adopts Lyra. Before Lyra leaves Jordan, the Master secretly entrusts her with an alethiometer, a strange truth-telling device, which she quickly learns to use intuitively. After several weeks, Lyra discovers that Coulter is the head of the Gobblers, or \"General Oblation Board\", a secret Church-funded project. Horrified, Lyra flees to the Gyptians, canal-faring nomads, many of whose children have also been abducted. They reveal to Lyra that Asriel and Coulter are her parents.\n\nThe Gyptians form an expedition to the Arctic with Lyra, where they believe the Gobblers are holding their children. They stop in Trollesund, where Lyra meets Iorek Byrnison, the dispossessed royal heir of the \"panserbjørne\" (armoured bears). Lyra uses her alethiometer to locate Iorek's missing armour; in return, he and his human aeronaut friend, Lee Scoresby, join her group. She also learns that Lord Asriel has been exiled, guarded by the \"panserbjørne\" on Svalbard. Trollesund's witch consul tells the Gyptians of a prophecy about Lyra which she must not know, and that the witch clans are choosing sides for an upcoming war.\n\nThe search party continues towards Bolvangar, the Gobbler research station. Guided by the alethiometer, Lyra detours at a village and discovers an abandoned child who has been cut from his dæmon and who soon dies. She realises the Gobblers are experimenting on children by severing the bond between human and dæmon, a soul-splitting process called intercision. Lyra and her companions are attacked by bounty hunters, and Lyra is captured and taken to Bolvangar, where she is briefly reunited with Roger before being sent to be separated from Pantalaimon. Just before this can occur, Coulter arrives and halts the intercision process. She tells Lyra that intercision prevents the onset of troubling adult emotions, though it has not yet been perfected.\n\nLyra activates Bolvangar's emergency alarm, sets the station on fire, and evacuates the children, where they are rescued by Scoresby, Iorek, the Gyptians, and the witch clan of Serafina Pekkala, who battle the station attendants as Lyra, Roger, and Iorek flee in Scoresby's hot air balloon. Lyra directs the witches to tow the balloon towards Asriel in Svalbard, but she falls out and is taken by the \"panserbjørne\" to the castle of their usurping king, Iofur Raknison. She tricks Iofur into fighting Iorek, who arrives with the others to rescue Lyra. Iorek kills Iofur and regains his place as the rightful king.\n\nLyra, Iorek, and Roger continue onwards to Svalbard, where Asriel has continued his Dust research in exile. He tells Lyra all he knows of Dust: that it has spawned parallel universes, it is somehow connected to death and misery, and that the Church believes it is the physical basis of sin. He plans to visit the other universes and destroy the source of Dust. Suddenly, he severs Roger from his dæmon, killing Roger but releasing an enormous amount of energy that tears a hole in the Northern Lights to a parallel universe, through which he walks. Because Asriel believes Dust is a force of evil, the devastated Lyra decides that perhaps it is really a force of good. Vowing to stop her father, she and Pantalaimon pass through the opening in the sky.\n\nAll humans in \"Northern Lights\", as well as witches, have a dæmon \"(pronounced \"demon\")\", which is the physical manifestation of a person's \"inner being\", soul, or spirit. It takes the form of a creature \"(moth, bird, dog, monkey, snake, etc.)\" and is usually the opposite sex to its human counterpart. The dæmons of children have the ability to change form - from one creature to another - but towards the end of a child's puberty, their dæmon \"settles\" into a permanent form, which reflects the person's personality. When a person dies, the dæmon dies too. Armoured bears, cliff ghasts and other creatures do not have dæmons. An armoured bear's armour is his soul.\n\n\nDuring pre-publication of the novel, the prospective trilogy was known in Britain as \"The Golden Compasses\", an allusion to God's poetic delineation of the world. The term is from a line in Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", where it denotes the drafting compass God used to establish and set a circular boundary of all creation:\n\n<poem>\nThen staid the fervid wheels, and in his hand\nHe took the golden compasses, prepared\nIn God's eternal store, to circumscribe\nThis universe, and all created things:\nOne foot he centred, and the other turned\nRound through the vast profundity obscure\n</poem>\n— Book 7, lines 224–229\n\nIn the US, publisher Knopf had been calling the first book \"The Golden Compass\" (singular), which it mistakenly understood as a reference to Lyra's alethiometer (depicted on the front cover shown at the head of this article), because of the device's resemblance to a navigational compass. By the time Pullman had replaced \"The Golden Compasses\" with \"His Dark Materials\" as the name of the trilogy, the US publisher had become so attached to the original title that it insisted on publishing the first book as \"The Golden Compass\" rather than as \"Northern Lights\", the title used in Britain and Australia.\n\nFor \"Northern Lights\" Pullman won both the annual Carnegie Medal for British children's books and the annual Guardian Children's Fiction Prize, a similar award that authors may not win twice. Six books have won both awards in 45 years through 2011.\n\nIn the US, \"The Golden Compass\" was named \"Booklist\" Editors Choice – Top of the List, \"Publishers Weekly\" Book of the Year, a \"Horn Book\" Fanfare Honor Book, and a \"Bulletin\" Blue Ribbon Book.\n\nSome critics have asserted that the trilogy and the movie portray the organised churches and religion negatively, while others - notably Dr Rowan Williams, formerly Archbishop of Canterbury - have argued that Pullman's works should be included in religious-education courses. Peter Hitchens views the series \"His Dark Materials\" as a direct rebuttal of \"The Chronicles of Narnia\" by C. S. Lewis. Literary critic Alan Jacobs of Wheaton College in Illinois suggests that Pullman recasts the Narnia series, replacing a theist world-view with a Rousseauist one.\n\nA feature film adaptation of the novel, named \"The Golden Compass\", was released in December 2007. The novel was adapted by Chris Weitz, who also directed the film. Dakota Blue Richards, in her film debut, played Lyra. The cast included Nicole Kidman, Daniel Craig, Eva Green, Ian McKellen, Sam Elliott, Derek Jacobi, and Christopher Lee.\n\nIn 1996, Natasha Richardson narrated an audiobook version of \"Northern Lights\". The trilogy, \"His Dark Materials\", was abridged in a dramatisation by BBC Worldwide, published on 1 January 2003. It was also adapted unabridged and released by BBC Audiobooks, narrated by Philip Pullman. The cast includes Joanna Wyatt as Lyra, Alison Dowling as Mrs Coulter, Seán Barrett as Lord Asriel and Iorek Byrnison and Stephen Thorne as the Master and Farder Coram.\n\nThe National Theatre in London staged a two-part adaptation of the trilogy in 2003–2004.\n\nA video game of the movie adaptation of the book, titled \"The Golden Compass\", published by Sega and developed by Shiny Entertainment, was released 4 December 2007. Players assume the role of Lyra as she travels through the frozen wastes of the North in an attempt to rescue her friend kidnapped by a mysterious organisation known as the Gobblers. Travelling with her are an armoured polar bear and her dæmon Pantalaimon (Pan). Together, they must use a truth-telling alethiometer and other items to explore the land and fight their way through confrontations to help Lyra's friend. \"The Golden Compass\" features a mix of fighting and puzzle solving with three characters.\n\nIn November 2015 BBC announced that it would be making a new 8-part TV series adaptation of the book series, with Bad Wolf and New Line Cinema producing. Dafne Keen will play Lyra and Tom Hooper will direct, with Jack Thorne as writer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51550165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51550165", "title": "Ohio Women's Convention at Salem in 1850", "text": "Ohio Women's Convention at Salem in 1850\n\nThe Ohio Women's Convention at Salem in 1850 met on April 19–20, 1850 in Salem, Ohio, a center for reform activity. It was the third in a series of women's rights conventions that began with the Seneca Falls Convention of 1848. It was the first of these conventions to be organized on a statewide basis. About five hundred people attended. All of the convention's officers were women. Men were not allowed to vote, sit on the platform or speak during the convention. The convention sent a memorial to the convention that was preparing a new Ohio state constitution, asking it to provide for women's right to vote.\n\nThe Ohio Women's Convention at Salem met on April 19–20, 1850 in Salem, Ohio. About five hundred people attended.\nIt met at the Second Baptist Church and the Friends (Quaker) Meeting House. It was the third in a series of women's rights conventions that began with the Seneca Falls Convention of 1848 and continued with the Rochester Convention two weeks later. Both of these were regional gatherings in western New York State. The Salem convention was the first women's rights convention to be organized on a statewide basis.\nThe first to be organized on a national basis was the National Women's Rights Convention in Worcester, Massachusetts in October, 1850.\n\nSalem was a center for reform activity. Its inhabitants included a number of anti-slavery activists, many of them Quakers.\nThe Anti-Slavery Bugle, an abolitionist newspaper, was published in Salem beginning in 1845.\nA local group of the Progressive Friends, an association of Quakers who separated from the main body partly so they could be freer to work for such causes as abolitionism and women's rights, was formed in Salem in 1849.\nThe local school board was composed of abolitionists from both wings of that movement: the followers of William Lloyd Garrison, who opposed involvement in political activity, and supporters of the Liberty Party, an abolitionist political party. All eight members of the school board had female relatives who participated in the Salem convention.\n\nThe call to the Salem convention declared that its purpose would be, \"[T]o secure to all persons the recognition of equal rights, and the extension of the privileges of government without distinction of sex, or color\".\n\nBetsy Mix Cowles was elected president of the convention. Cowles, who had ties to both wings of the abolitionist movement, was a long-time advocate for the rights of African Americans.\nShe led the campaign against laws that discriminated against black children in public schools in Ohio.\nIn 1835 she became the leader of the Female Anti-Slavery Society of Ashtabula County.\nJane Elizabeth Jones, an abolitionist lecturer, gave the convention's main address.\nJosephine Griffing, another prominent activist against slavery and for women's rights, served on the business committee.\n\nAll of the convention's officers were women. Men were not allowed to vote, sit on the platform or speak during the convention. The male spectators were supportive, however, and when the convention was over, they created an organization of their own and endorsed the actions of the women's convention.\n\nThe convention met less than a month prior to the opening of the state convention that revised the Ohio state constitution in 1850–1851. The Salem convention approved a memorial that was forwarded to the constitutional convention along with 8000 signatures.\nThe memorial concluded by saying: \nLetters were read to the convention from prominent women's rights leaders who were unable to attend, including Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott, and Lucy Stone.\n\n\nOliver Johnson, ed. (April 27, 1850). \"The Women's Convention\" and related articles. \"The Anti-Slavery Bugle\". Salem, Ohio. pp. 2–4.\n"}
{"id": "35477954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35477954", "title": "Otank language", "text": "Otank language\n\nOtank (Utanga) is a Tivoid language of Nigeria. It is close to Tiv proper.\n"}
{"id": "35149815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35149815", "title": "Paraguayans in Italy", "text": "Paraguayans in Italy\n\nThe presence of Paraguayans in Italy dates back to the 1980s.\n\nIn 2010 in Italy there are 1.502 regular immigrants from Paraguay. In 2006 they were 837. The three cities with most number of Paraguayans are: Rome, Verona and Finale Ligure.\n\nThe Italians have contributed significantly to the development of Paraguay. At the time of the war waged 130 years ago from the Triple Alliance formed by Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay against Paraguay, many Italians emigrated to Paraguay recently volunteered in the ranks of Marshal Francisco Solano López, the president of the South American country.\n\nApproximately 9,000 were Europeans as migrants in Paraguay, devastated by the Paraguayan War, in the late 19th century and over a third were Italians, mainly from the provinces of Lombardy (especially from Bergamo) and northern Italy. Since the 1980s, the phenomenon of immigration has brought home many grandchildren of Italian immigrants.\n\n"}
{"id": "37669313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37669313", "title": "Pension fund investment in infrastructure", "text": "Pension fund investment in infrastructure\n\nAlthough traditionally the preserve of governments and municipal authorities, infrastructure has recently become an asset class in its own right for private sector investors- most notably pension funds \n\nHistorically, pension funds have tended to invest mostly in \"core-assets\" such as money market instruments, government bonds, and large-cap equity, and, to a lesser extent, in \"alternative assets\" such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds, the average allocation to infrastructure representing only 1% of total assets under management by pensions- excluding indirect investment through ownership of stocks of listed utility and infrastructure companies.\n\nBut government disengagement from the costly long-term financial commitments required by large infrastructure projects in the wake of the 2008–2012 global recession, combined with the progressive realization that infrastructure could be an “ideal asset class” providing tangible advantages such as long duration- facilitating cash flow matching with long-term liabilities, protection against inflation and statistical diversification (low correlation with ‘traditional’ listed assets such as equity and fixed income) has prompted an increasing number of pension executives to consider investing in the asset class- this macro-financial perspective to pension investment in infrastructure was developed by US, Canadian and European financial economics and labor law experts, notably from Harvard Law School, the World Pensions Council and the OECD\n\nPension funds- including superannuation schemes account for approximately 40% of all investors in the infrastructure asset class, excluding projects directly funded and developed by governments, municipalities and public authorities. Large Canadian pension funds and sovereign investors have been particularly active in the field of energy assets such as natural gas and natural gas infrastructure, where they have become major players in recent years \n\nUntil recently, apart from sophisticated jurisdictions such as Ontario, Quebec, California and the Netherlands, most North American, European, and UK pensions wishing to gain a degree of exposure to infrastructure assets had done so indirectly, through investments made in infrastructure funds managed by specialized Canadian, US and Australian funds \n\nOn November 29, 2011, the British government unveiled an unprecedented plan to encourage large-scale pension investments in roads, hospitals, airports, etc. across the UK. The plan is aimed at enticing 20 billion pounds ($30.97 billion) of investment in domestic infrastructure projects “over the next decade”. On October 18, 2012, HM Treasury announced that the National Association of Pension Funds (NAPF) and the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) had succeeded in “\"securing a critical mass of Founding Investors needed to move to the next stage of development\" [...] [and that] \"several major UK pension funds have signed up to the Pension Infrastructure Platform (PIP). The intention is that the Founding Investors will provide around half of the target £2 billion of investment capital for the fund, before it launches early next year\"” \n\nSome experts have warned against the risk of \"infrastructure nationalism\", insisting that steady investment flows from foreign pension and sovereign funds were key for the long-term success of the asset class- notably in large European jurisdictions such as France and the UK \n"}
{"id": "55775627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55775627", "title": "Qa'a (room)", "text": "Qa'a (room)\n\nThe Qa'a is a roofed reception room found in the domestic architecture of affluent residences of the Islamic world. It is the most common hall type in the medieval Islamic domestic architecture. The plan of a qa'a may be inspired by the four-iwan, cruciform-shaped plan of religious buildings. They were used to welcome male guests, where they would sit on the raised platform.\n\nQa'as are found in domestic houses of wealthy people, e.g. merchants or local political figures. They can be situated on the ground floors or on the first floors. Entrance to the qa'a is usually situated facing the semi-private courtyard of the house. \n\nThe qa'a can be described as a combination of a courtyard and iwan. The qa'a consists of a depressed central area (\"durqa'a\") where guests would first enter the qa'a via an opening; and the raised sitting area (\"tazar\") where the guests would take off their footwear and be seated on the \"diwan\", a couch that is placed on the floor against the wall. The \"tazar\" is placed in a kind of iwan, a rectangular hall walled on three sides. Normally there are two iwans facing each other on the main axis of the qa'a, with wall recesses on the two remaining sides.\n\nThe \"durqa'a\" (literally \"entry to the qa'a\") is the first area where the guests would enter into a qa'a via a main entrance. It is the central space of the qa'a. In a qa'a composition, the \"durqa'a\" is flanked with two \"tazar\"s (raised sitting area) on the two sides of the durqa'a, or sometimes just one. The durqa'a is where a cooling fountain (\"fasqiya\") may be installed, a typical feature in Islamic architecture which provides sound into the space. \n\nThe \"tazar\" is the raised sitting platform. They are located in the iwan. In the complete composition of the qa'a, there are two \"iwan\"s flanking the \"durqa'a\" at the sides. The \"tazar\" is where the male guests would be seated, and then served food or coffee by the servants. In a few example, there is additional access that leads directly toward the tazar, usually this is a service access where the servants would enter to provide fruits or drinks. Recessed shelves are located on the wall on the sides of the \"tazar\", this is where ceramic bowls, ewers, carved metal works, or books were displayed. The walls may also be decorated with Arabic calligraphy, usually of poetry, a dominant form of art in the Islamic world. Mashrabiyas are sometimes used to cover recesses on the side walls of the two iwans. Sometimes there's also a decorative niche (\"masab\"), which is treated like a kind of niche found in mosques, with miniature muqarnas decorating the miniature ceiling of the niche.\n\nThe ceiling of the iwan is always lower than the ceiling of the durqa'a. In the earliest qa'as, the iwans are usually barrel-vaulted (e.g. the qa'a of al-Dardir House in Cairo). In a Mamluk qa'a, one of the iwan would have a windcatcher (\"malqaf\" or \"badhahanj\") which brings in the breeze into the qa'a. The ceiling of the durqa'a is normally the tallest in the qa'a, often topped with a wooden hexagonal skylight (\"shukhsheikha\") which provides light into the interior or equipped with a lantern.\n\nThe qa'a is heavily decorated with vibrant colors and complex pattern. The design of the room is where the owner of the house can show off to the guests. They can be designed in different styles, depending on where the qa'a is located.\n\nThe wall of the qa'a is normally wooden panels of cypress, poplar, or mulberry. A qa'a in Ajami style would have the wooden walls layered with a gypsum mixture to create a raised patterned surface, decorated with metal leaf (e.g. tin, silver, or gold) and then painted and layered. The entire wall would then be varnished. Today the color of old qa'a walls would be low in saturation, but they were used to be extremely vibrant in color. Many newer domestic houses, e.g. those in Damascus, still have vibrant colors of green, blue, fuchsias and purples. \n\nThe floor is of cut inlaid stones. \n\nThe qa'a is one of many reception rooms featured in the domestic architecture found in Egyptian Ottoman and other Islamic worlds e.g. Syria. A qa'a is featured in affluent houses of a merchant or a local political figure. The place is where the owner of the house would have a meeting or greet his guests. The qa'a doesn't have any fixed furniture and that it was seasonal. The qa'a is ideally located to the north side of the courtyard of a house, so that it could have taken advantage of the sun's rays during winter when the sun would is at the lowest. If the qa'a is used for the summer, they would have the windcatcher to direct breeze into the room during summer time. The qa'a can also be used as a sleeping room. In that case, there will be a larger niche where bedding rolls and carpets would be placed to be used for sleeping.\n\n\"ataba\" is a term to indicate a low zone, a term which is applied to the depressed \"durqa'a\". If the guests of the house owner are not important, they are kept in the \"ataba\". They are only allowed to enter into the \"tazar\" if they are guests of honor, where they would sit on the couches after taking off their footwears.\n\nThe \"tazar\" is a place where important guests would be seated. Here, they would be served fruits depending on the season, or drinks (e.g. coffee) or a hookah. Depending on how important the guests are, they would be seated toward the central part of the rear wall, where they could admire the glory of the qa'a.\n\nThe qa'a room is found throughout the Islamic world, especially in Ottoman Egypt and Ottoman Syria. Below are lists of buildings with notable qa'a:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14731840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14731840", "title": "Richard Biegenwald", "text": "Richard Biegenwald\n\nRichard Fran Biegenwald (August 24, 1940 – March 10, 2008) was an American serial killer who committed his crimes in Monmouth County, New Jersey. Between 1958 and 1983, Biegenwald killed at least six people, and he is suspected in at least two other murders.\n\nBorn in Staten Island, New York, Biegenwald was frequently beaten as a child by his alcoholic father. At the age of five, Biegenwald set fire to their home and was sent for observation at a Rockland County Psychiatric Center.\n\nBy the age of eight, Biegenwald was drinking and gambling; at age nine he underwent electroshock therapy at New York's Bellevue Hospital. After his therapy, Biegenwald was placed in the State Training School for Boys in Warwick, New York. During his years there, Biegenwald was accused of theft and inciting other inmates to escape. During trips to visit his mother in Staten Island, he would steal money from her. When he was 11 years old, he set himself on fire in his mother's home. When Biegenwald was 16 years old, he graduated from the eighth grade and was released from the Training School to attend high school. Biegenwald dropped out of high school after only a few weeks.\n\nSoon after dropping out of school, Biegenwald went to Nashville, Tennessee, where he stayed for two years. Biegenwald stole a car in Nashville, and was arrested in Kentucky by federal agents for transporting a stolen car across state lines. He returned to Staten Island in 1958.\n\nAfter his return, Biegenwald stole another car and went to Bayonne, New Jersey. There, on December 18, 1958, Biegenwald robbed a grocery store with accomplice Frank Spardoff (possibly \"Sparnroft\"), shooting and killing the proprietor, Stephen Sladowski, an attorney and prosecutor. Biegenwald fled the state after the murder, but was captured two days later in Salisbury, Maryland, after a shooting involving police. Biegenwald was extradited to New Jersey, where he was convicted of murder and given a life sentence. Biegenwald was released in 1975 for good behavior after 17 years imprisonment.\n\nBiegenwald worked odd jobs for the next three years and kept a low profile. In 1977, Biegenwald was suspected in a rape, and was wanted for failing to report to his parole officer. Biegenwald was arrested in Brooklyn in 1980 on the rape charge, but was released after the victim failed to pick him out of a lineup. Biegenwald got married, and he and his wife moved to Asbury Park, New Jersey. There, Biegenwald was befriended by Dherran Fitzgerald, who would play a role in several of his future murders.\n\nBiegenwald struck again when he shot and killed 18-year-old Anna Olesiewicz in Ocean Township, New Jersey. Her body was found in January 1983 by children playing in a wooded lot behind a Burger King on Route 35 and Sunset Avenue, fully clothed with no signs of sexual assault and with four bullets in her head. He had found the young woman walking down the boardwalk in Asbury Park, and lured her into his car. A friend of Biegenwald's wife went to police after Biegenwald showed her another young woman's body that he had hidden inside his Asbury Park home's garage.\n\nBiegenwald was also suspected, but never charged, in two other killings. One involved the shooting death of John Petrone, an ex–convict and sometime police informer, unearthed—minus his jawbone—on a remote New Jersey wildlife preserve. \nThe other case involved Virginia Clayton, 17, abducted and killed on September 8, 1982, her body found three days later, four miles from the site where Petrone was buried.\n\nPolice surrounded Biegenwald's home on January 22, 1983, where Dherran Fitzgerald also lived. Police lured Biegenwald out of his house using a ruse and when he stepped off his back porch, he was grabbed by officers. Fitzgerald saw the commotion and hid himself in a secret room with several weapons. Detectives located the room and after threatening to shoot through the wall, he surrendered. A search of the home revealed a large cache of weapons and illegal drugs. Police confiscated several pipe bombs, handguns, rifles, shotguns, a machine gun, Rohypnol, chloral hydrate, marijuana, a live puff adder, venom collecting apparatus, and floor plans for several area notable residences and businesses.\n\nDuring questioning, Fitzgerald told police of a third body, that of a young woman, that Biegenwald had shown him hidden in his garage. This victim was driven to the rear of Burger King in Ocean Township, and dumped in the wooded area behind. Fitzgerald told police that he helped Biegenwald transport another body to his mother's house in Staten Island and bury it in the basement. Fitzgerald went on to say that while he was digging in the basement, he exhumed a body that Biegenwald had buried there some time before. Fitzgerald led police to three other bodies in addition to the two buried in Staten Island.\n\nAs the investigation went on, police located a ninth victim, William Ward, who was buried in a shallow grave in Neptune City, New Jersey. Ward was a prison escapee whom Biegenwald had shot four or five times in the head and then disposed of the body at a cemetery nearby.\n\nPolice only had enough evidence to charge Biegenwald with five counts of first degree murder. Fitzgerald turned state's evidence.\n\nBiegenwald died on March 10, 2008 at St. Francis Medical Center in Trenton, New Jersey, said Corrections Department spokeswoman Deirdre Fedkenheuer in an interview to the Associated Press.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21233325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21233325", "title": "Runaway climate change", "text": "Runaway climate change\n\nRunaway climate change or runaway global warming is hypothesized to follow a tipping point in the climate system, after accumulated climate change initiates a reinforcing positive feedback. This rapid acceleration in climate change may lead to potentially irreversible damage to the climate system, making timely mitigation efforts unfeasible. This is thought to cause the climate to rapidly change until it reaches a new stable condition. These phrases may be used with reference to concerns about rapid global warming. Some astronomers use the expression runaway greenhouse effect to describe a situation where the climate deviates catastrophically and permanently from the original state—as happened on Venus.\n\nAlthough these terms are rarely used in the peer-reviewed climatological literature,<ref name=\"doi10.1146/annurev.energy.32.041706.124700\"></ref> that literature does use the similar phrase \"runaway greenhouse effect\", which refers specifically to climate changes that cause a planetary body's water to boil off.\n\n\nThe \"runaway greenhouse effect\" has several meanings. At the least extreme, this implies global warming sufficient to induce out-of-control amplifying feedbacks, such as ice sheet disintegration and melting of methane hydrates. At the most extreme, a Venus-like planet with crustal carbon baked into the atmosphere and a surface temperature of several hundred degrees, an irreversible climate state.\n\nBetween these two is the \"moist greenhouse\", which occurs if the climate forcing is large enough to make water vapour (HO) a major atmospheric constituent. In principle, an extreme moist greenhouse might cause an instability with water vapour preventing radiation to space of all absorbed solar energy, resulting in very high surface temperature and evaporation of the ocean. However, simulations indicate that no plausible human-made greenhouse gas (GHG) forcing can cause an instability and baked-crust runaway greenhouse effect.\n\nConceivable levels of human-made climate forcing could yield the\" low-end\" runaway greenhouse. A forcing of 12–16 W m would require carbon dioxide (CO) levels to increase 8–16 times. If the forcing were due only to CO change, this would raise the global mean temperature by 16–24 °C with much larger polar warming. A warming of 16–24 °C produces a moderately moist greenhouse, with water vapour increasing to about 1% of the atmosphere's mass, thus increasing the rate of hydrogen escape to space. If such a forcing were entirely due to CO, the weathering process would remove the excess atmospheric CO on a time scale of 10–10 years, well before the ocean was significantly depleted. Venus-like conditions on the Earth require a large long-term forcing that is unlikely to occur until the sun brightens by a few tens of percents, which will take a few billion years.\n\nBurning all fossil fuels would adversely affect the ability of humans to live on the planet. If non-CO greenhouse gases such as NO and methane (CH) were to increase with global warming at the same rate as in the palaeoclimate record and atmospheric chemistry simulations they would provide approximately 25% of the greenhouse forcing. The remaining forcing requires approximately 4.8 times current CO levels, corresponding to fossil fuel emissions as much as approximately 10,000 Gt C for a conservative assumption of a CO airborne fraction averaging one-third over the 1000 years following a peak emission.\n\nCalculated global warming in this case is 16 °C, with warming at the poles approximately 30 °C. Calculated warming over land areas averages approximately 20 °C. Such temperatures would eliminate grain production in almost all agricultural regions in the world. Increased stratospheric water vapour would diminish the stratospheric ozone layer.\n\nGlobal warming of that magnitude would make most of the planet uninhabitable by humans. The human body generates about 100 W of metabolic heat that must be carried away to maintain a core body temperature near 37 °C, which implies that sustained wet bulb temperatures above 35 °C can result in lethal hyperthermia. Today, the summer temperature varies widely over the Earth's surface, but wet bulb temperature is more narrowly confined by the effect of humidity, with the most common value of approximately 26–27 °C and the highest approximately of 31 °C. A warming of 10–12 °C would put most of today's world population in regions with a wetbulb temperature above 35 °C. Given the 20 °C warming that occurs with 4.8 times current CO levels, such a climate forcing would produce intolerable climatic conditions even if the true climate sensitivity is significantly less than the Russell sensitivity, or, if the Russell sensitivity is accurate, the CO forcing required to produce intolerable conditions for humans is less than this amount.\n\nThe core of the concept of runaway climate change is the idea of a large positive feedback within the climate system. When a change in global temperature causes an event to occur which itself changes global temperature, this is referred to as a feedback effect. If this effect acts in the same direction as the original temperature change, it is a destabilising positive feedback (e.g. warming causing more warming); and if in the opposite direction, it is a stabilising negative feedback (e.g. warming causing a cooling effect). If a sufficiently strong net positive feedback occurs, it is said that a climate tipping point has been passed and the temperature will continue to change until the changed conditions result in negative feedbacks that restabilise the climate on a new, stable equilibrium manifold.\n\nAn example of a negative feedback is that radiation leaving the Earth increases in proportion to the fourth power of temperature, in accordance with the Stefan-Boltzmann law. This feedback is always operational; therefore, while it may be overridden by positive feedbacks for comparatively small temperature changes it will dominate for larger temperature changes. An example of a positive feedback is the ice-albedo feedback, in which increasing temperature causes ice to melt, which increases the amount of heat that Earth absorbs. This feedback only operates in a restricted range of temperatures (those for which ice exists, and does not cover the whole surface; once all the ice has melted, the feedback ceases to operate).\n\nClimate feedback effects can involve positive feedback in a type of forcing, such as the release of methane due to rising methane levels; other greenhouse gases, as when CO causes the release of methane; or other variables, such as the ice-albedo feedback.\n\nWithout climate feedbacks, a doubling in atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration would result in a global average temperature increase of around 1.2 °C. Water vapor amount and clouds are probably the most important global climate feedbacks. Historical information and global climate models indicate a climate sensitivity of 1.5 to 4.5 °C, with a best estimate of 3 °C. This is an amplification of the carbon dioxide forcing by a factor of 2.5. Some studies suggest a lower climate sensitivity, but other studies indicate a sensitivity above this range. Partly because of the difficulty in modeling the cloud feedback, the true climate sensitivity remains uncertain.\n\nSlow feedback effects—especially changes in the sizes of ice sheets and levels of atmospheric CO—amplify the sensitivity of the total Earth system by an amount that depends on the time scale considered.\n\nThere are known examples of the Earth's climate producing a large response to small forcings. The CO feedback effect is believed to be part of the transition between glacial and interglacial periods, with orbital forcing providing the initial trigger.\n\nA 2006 book chapter by Cox et al. considers the possibility of a future runaway climate feedback due to changes in the land carbon cycle:\n\nHere we use a simple land carbon balance model to analyse the conditions required for a land sink-to-source transition, and address the question; could the land carbon cycle lead to a runaway climate feedback? [...] The simple land carbon balance model has effective parameters representing the sensitivities of climate and photosynthesis to CO, and the sensitivities of soil respiration and photosynthesis to temperature. This model is used to show that (a) a carbon sink-to-source transition is inevitable beyond some finite critical CO concentration provided a few simple conditions are satisfied, (b) the value of the critical CO concentration is poorly known due to uncertainties in land carbon cycle parameters and especially in the climate sensitivity to CO, and (c) that a true runaway land carbon-climate feedback (or linear instability) in the future is unlikely given that the land masses are currently acting as a carbon sink.\n\nIn general, fast feedback climate sensitivity depends on the initial climate state. Fast feedback effects include changes in levels of water vapour and aerosols, as well as changes in cloud cover and the extent of sea ice.\n\nPotentially unstable methane deposits exists in permafrost regions, which are expected to retreat as a result of global warming, and also clathrates, with the clathrate effect probably taking millennia to fully act. The potential role of methane from clathrates in near-future runaway scenarios is not certain, as studies show a slow release of methane, which may not be regarded as 'runaway' by all commentators. The clathrate gun runaway effect may be used to describe more rapid methane releases. Methane in the atmosphere has a high global warming potential, but breaks down relatively quickly to form CO, which is also a greenhouse gas. Therefore, slow methane release will have the long-term effect of adding CO to the atmosphere.\n\nIn order to model clathrates and other reservoirs of greenhouse gases and their precursors, global climate models would have to be 'coupled' to a carbon cycle model. Most current global climate models do not include modelling of methane deposits.\n\nThe scientific consensus in the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report is that \"Anthropogenic warming could lead to some effects that are abrupt or irreversible, depending upon the rate and magnitude of the climate change.\" Note however that this statement is about situations weaker than \"runaway change\". Text prepared for the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report states that \"a 'runaway greenhouse effect'—analogous to Venus—appears to have virtually no chance of being induced by anthropogenic activities.\"\n\nEstimates of the size of the total carbon reservoir in Arctic permafrost and clathrates vary widely. It is suggested that at least 900 gigatonnes of carbon in permafrost exists worldwide. Furthermore, there are believed to be another 400 gigatonnes of carbon in methane clathrates in permafrost regions with 10,000 to 11,000 gigatonnes worldwide. This is large enough that if 10% of the stored methane were released, it would have an effect equivalent to a factor of 10 increase in atmospheric CO concentrations. Methane is a potent greenhouse gas with a higher global warming potential than CO.\n\nWorries about the release of this methane and carbon dioxide is linked to arctic shrinkage. Recent years have seen record low Arctic sea ice. It has been suggested that rapid melting of the sea ice may initiate a feedback loop that rapidly melts arctic permafrost. Methane clathrates on the sea-floor have also been predicted to destabilise, but much more slowly.\n\nA release of methane from clathrates, however, is believed to be slow and chronic rather than catastrophic and that 21st-century effects of such a release are therefore likely to be 'significant but not catastrophic'. It is further noted that 'much methane from dissociated gas hydrate may never reach the atmosphere', as it can be dissolved into the ocean and be broken down biologically. Other research demonstrates that a release to the atmosphere can occur during large releases. These sources suggest that the clathrate gun effect alone will not be sufficient to cause 'catastrophic' climate change within a human lifetime.\n\nHansen et al. 2013 suggests that the Earth could become in large parts uninhabitable and note that this may not even require burning of all fossil fuels, because of higher climate sensitivity (3–4 °C or 5.4–7.2 °F) based on a 550 ppm scenario. Burning all fossil fuels would warm land areas on average about 20 °C (36 °F) and warm the poles 30 °C (54 °F). Earlier estimates were based on the assumption that fossil-fuel use would continue until reserves were exhausted, and predicted a runaway greenhouse effect, a climate similar to that on Venus. Ongoing research determines if such a climate state is possible on Earth.\n\nEvents that could be described as runaway climate change may have occurred in the past.\n\nThe clathrate gun hypothesis suggests an abrupt climate change due to a massive release of methane gas from methane clathrates on the seafloor. It has been speculated that the Permian-Triassic extinction event and the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum were caused by massive clathrate release.\n\nGeological evidence shows that ice-albedo feedback caused sea ice advance to near the equator at several points in Earth history. Modeling work shows that such an event would indeed be a result of a self-sustaining ice-albedo effect, and that such a condition could be escaped via the accumulation of CO from volcanic outgassing.\n\n"}
{"id": "43826588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43826588", "title": "Science advice", "text": "Science advice\n\nScience advice is the process, structures and institutions through which governments and politicians consider science, technology and innovation information in policy- and decision- making. Across different national governments and international bodies, there are a variety of structures and institutions for scientific advice. They reflect distinctive cultures and traditions of decision-making, which Sheila Jasanoff has termed the ‘civic epistemology’ through which expert claims are constructed, validated or challenged in a given society.\n\nScience advice can also be called \"science for policy,\" indicating the flow of information from scientific to policy domains with the intention of informing decisions. This is distinct from \"policy for science,\" the institutions, rules and norms governing how science is funded, conducted, and communicated.\n\nAt the national level, countries have diverse models for how to connect scientists and policymakers. In some countries, the president of the National academy, an elected organization of distinguished researchers in natural and social sciences, engineering, medicine, and the humanities, serves as a government science advisor, while other countries have an advisory committee or civil servants perform this role. National academies are often commissioned to write reports advising government on the state of scientific knowledge to inform policy-relevant questions, such as the risk from chemicals or disease.\n\nOther countries, such as the UK, have a wide range of sources of expert scientific advice which draw on several of these sources.\n\nAt the international level, there is an increasing movement to bring together national science advisors to share best practices and form a network to deal with global challenges (e.g., pandemics, climate change). The first global Science Advice to Governments meeting was held in Auckland, New Zealand on August 27–28, 2014. This meeting brought together high-level science advisors, scientists, and practitioners to discuss the relationship between science and policy. A new network of European science academies was established at the European Open Science meeting in Copenhagen in June 2014, which now includes 20 countries.\n\nThe International Council for Science (ICSU) is a major international organization with a program in science for policy.\n\nA briefing paper, described four of the most commonly used science advice structures for jurisdictions: advisory councils, advisory committees, national academies, and chief scientific advisors. These structures are most commonly employed at the national level, but may also be used in sub-national jurisdictions like Quebec, or supra-national bodies like the European Commission, which has an in-house science service, the Joint Research Centre.\n\nScience advice also occurs at sub-national levels, where structures may include departmental scientific advisors (for example, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, and at the international level, where networks such as the International Council for Science coordinate science for policy, for example through serving as the science voice in the United Nations.\n\nFor any of these structures, individual experts may be asked for advice in specific circumstances.\n"}
{"id": "28439768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28439768", "title": "Scott Davis (announcer)", "text": "Scott Davis (announcer)\n\nScott Davis (September 21, 1943, in San Francisco, California-August 18, 2010 in Cerritos, California) was perhaps the top Track and Field announcer in the United States from the 1980s until his death. He was the primary public address voice at major meets including championship meets like the Olympic Trials, the USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships, the NCAA Championships and top level professional meets that encompass the currently named Visa Championship Series like the Prefontaine Classic, the Adidas Grand Prix and most notably at the Mt. SAC Relays, where he was also the meet director for a decade starting in 1997. He was also frequently the English language voice of many top level International meets, including the 1996 Summer Olympics. The last meet he announced was the 2010 World Junior Championships in Athletics in Moncton, Canada. His voice from that meet can be heard as the English announcer .\n\nA top track statistician, he founded the Federation of American Statisticians of Track (FAST), publishing its annual summation of statistics called the \"FAST Annual\" which he frequently promoted and sold from the announcer's booth. He was the editor of USATF's media guide. He was also the secretary of the Association of Track and Field Statisticians, serving from 1994 until his death.\n\nDavis had suffered from various forms of cancer for 13 years. He was posthumously elected into the Mt. SAC Relays Hall of Fame in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "7136485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7136485", "title": "Sivandi language", "text": "Sivandi language\n\nSivandi is an Iranian language spoken in Fars Province, Iran, one of five listed in \"Ethnologue\" which together have 35,000 speakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "533860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533860", "title": "Teri Garr", "text": "Teri Garr\n\nTeri Ann Garr (born December 11, 1944) is a retired American actress, singer, and dancer. She frequently appeared in comedic roles throughout her career, which spans four decades and includes over 140 credits in film and television. Her accolades include one Academy Award nomination, a BAFTA Award nomination, and one National Board of Review Award.\n\nBorn in Lakewood, Ohio, Garr was raised in North Hollywood, California, the third child of a vaudevillian father and costume designer mother. In her youth, Garr trained extensively in ballet. She began her career as a teenager with small roles in television and film in the early 1960s, including appearances as a dancer in nine Elvis Presley musicals. After spending two years attending college, Garr left Los Angeles and studied acting at the Lee Strasberg Institute in New York City. \n\nGarr had a supporting role in Francis Ford Coppola's thriller \"The Conversation\" (1974) before having her film breakthrough as Inga in \"Young Frankenstein\" (1974). In 1977, she was cast in a high-profile role in Steven Spielberg's \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\". Garr continued to appear in various high-profile roles throughout the 1980s, including supporting parts in the comedies \"Mr. Mom\" (1983) and \"Tootsie\" (1982), for the latter of which she was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role Sandra Lester. She reunited with Coppola the same year, appearing in his musical \"One from the Heart\" (1982), followed by a supporting part in Martin Scorsese's black comedy \"After Hours\" (1985).\n\nHer quick banter led to Garr being a regular guest on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" and David Letterman's late night talk shows in the 1980s. In the 1990s, she appeared in two films by Robert Altman: \"The Player\" (1992) and \"Prêt-à-Porter\" (1994), followed by supporting roles in \"Michael\" (1996) and \"Ghost World\" (2001). She also appeared on television as Phoebe Abbott in three episodes of the sitcom \"Friends\" (1997–98). In 2002, Garr announced that she had been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis, whose symptoms had impacted her ability to perform beginning in the 1990s.\n\nTeri Ann Garr was born in Lakewood, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. Her father, Eddie Garr (born Edward Leo Gonnoud, 1900—1956), was a vaudeville performer, comedian, and actor whose career peaked when he briefly took over the lead role in the Broadway drama \"Tobacco Road\". He changed his surname before Teri's birth. Her mother, Phyllis Lind Garr (1909—1999) (born Emma Schmotzer), was a dancer, a Rockette, wardrobe mistress, and model. Her father was of Irish descent and her maternal grandparents were Austrian immigrants. Garr has two older brothers. She spent her early life in Cleveland, and the family briefly relocated to New Jersey before settling in Los Angeles, California. \n\nWhen Garr was 11 years old, her father died in Los Angeles of a heart attack. She recalled that his death \"left us bereft, without any kind of income. And I saw my mother be this incredibly strong, creative woman who put three kids through college—one of my brothers is a surgeon. Any kind of lessons we wanted, we had to have scholarships or sweep the floors. It had to be free. And so we always had to try harder. That was instilled in me very early.\" During her youth, Garr expressed interest in dancing, and trained extensively in ballet. \"I'd go for three, four hours a day; my feet would be bleeding,\" she recalled. \"I'd take buses all over the city just to go to the best dancing schools. You could just stand there and be quiet and beat yourself up, push the body.\" Garr graduated from North Hollywood High School, and attended California State University, Northridge for two years before dropping out and relocating to New York City to further pursue acting. In New York, she studied at the Actors Studio and the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute.\n\nEarly in her career she was credited as Terri Garr, Terry Garr, Teri Hope, or Terry Carr. Her movie debut was as an extra in \"A Swingin' Affair\" (1963). During her senior year she auditioned for the cast of the Los Angeles road company production of \"West Side Story\", where she met one of the most important people in her early career, David Winters, who became her friend, dance teacher, and mentor. Winters cast her in many of his early movies and projects.\n\nGarr began as a background go-go dancer in uncredited roles in youth-oriented films and TV shows choreographed by Winters, including \"Pajama Party\" (a beach party film), the \"T.A.M.I. Show\", \"Shindig!\", \"Shivaree\", \"Hullabaloo\", \"Movin' with Nancy\", and nine Elvis Presley features (many of which were also choreographed by Winters, including Presley's most profitable film, \"Viva Las Vegas\". When asked in a magazine interview about how she landed jobs in so many Presley films, Garr answered, \"One of the dancers in the road show of \"West Side Story\" (David Winters) started to choreograph movies, and whatever job he got, I was one of the girls he'd hire. So he was chosen to do \"Viva Las Vegas\". That was my first movie.\"\n\nShe often appeared on television during this time, performing as a go-go dancer on several musical variety shows, along with friend Toni Basil, such as \"Shindig!\" and \"Hullabaloo\". In 1966 Garr made one appearance on \"Batman\" (episode 7, uncredited). In 1968, she appeared in both \"The Andy Griffith Show\" and \"Mayberry R.F.D.\" and was in two episodes of \"It Takes a Thief\".\n\nHer first speaking role in a motion picture was a brief appearance as a damsel in distress in the Monkees film \"Head\" (1968), written by Jack Nicholson; Garr obtained the role after meeting Nicholson in an acting class. \"He wrote the script for \"Head\", so all of us in the class got little tiny parts in the movie,\" she recalled. \"I was… Who was I? Oh yes, I was the girl dying of a snakebite, who falls off the Calistoga wagon and says, \"Quick, suck it before the venom reaches my heart!\"\" The same year, she was featured as secretary Roberta Lincoln in the \"\" episode \"\", designed as a backdoor pilot episode for a new series which was not commissioned. In the early 1970s, she was a regular cast member on \"The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour\", dancing and acting in comedy sketches. \n\nGarr appeared in a string of highly successful films in the mid-to-late 1970s, including a supporting role in Francis Ford Coppola's thriller \"The Conversation\" (1974). This was followed with her role as Inga, an assistant to Dr. Frederick Frankenstein, in the Mel Brooks horror comedy \"Young Frankenstein\" (1974), which marked a career breakthrough. She then appeared in Steven Spielberg's science fiction film \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\" (1977) as the wife of Richard Dreyfuss's character; in \"Oh, God!\" (1977) as the wife of John Denver's character; and the drama \"The Black Stallion\" (1979). \n\nIn 1978, Garr appeared Off-Broadway in a production of \"One Crack Out\" by Canadian playwright David French, playing the wife of Charlie, a pool hustler in Toronto. Richard Eder of \"The New York Times\" noted that Garr \"manages an attractive uncertainty and devotion as Charlie's wife.\" \n\nIn 1982, she starred opposite Dustin Hoffman in the comedy \"Tootsie\" (1982), playing an actress whose actor friend (Hoffman) disguises himself as a woman to further his career. For her role, she was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. She then appeared in the comedy \"Mr. Mom\" (1983) as the wife of Michael Keaton's character, followed by a supporting role in Martin Scorsese's \"After Hours\" (1985).\n\nShe had a recurring role on \"McCloud\", and appeared on \"M*A*S*H\", \"The Bob Newhart Show\", \"The Odd Couple\", \"Maude\", \"Barnaby Jones\", and \"Paul Sand in Friends and Lovers\". She hosted \"Saturday Night Live\" three times (in 1980, 1983, and 1985), and was a frequent visitor on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\".\n\nAs a recurring guest on \"Late Night with David Letterman\", she was renowned for her unscripted banter with David Letterman, who once goaded her into showering in his office while the camera rolled. In 1989, she appeared in \"Let It Ride\", also opposite Dreyfuss. In the late-1990s, Garr landed a role as recurring character Phoebe Abbott in \"Friends\", the estranged birth mother of Phoebe Buffay. \n\nGarr's career began to slow in the late-1990s after she was informed by a neurologist that symptoms she had been experiencing for many years were those of multiple sclerosis. In film, she appeared in minor supporting roles, including portraying a witch in the children's film \"Casper Meets Wendy\" (1998), and as the mother of Michelle Williams in the political comedy \"Dick\" (1999). This was followed by an uncredited role in Terry Zwigoff's \"Ghost World\" (2001). She also provided the voice of Mary McGinnis in two Batman animated films: \"\" (1999), and \"\" (2000). \n\nGarr returned to the stage in 2000, appearing in numerous Off-Broadway performances of \"The Vagina Monologues\" throughout the fall of that year opposite Sanaa Lathan and Julianna Margulies. She subsequently had minor supporting roles in the Christmas comedy film \"Unaccompanied Minors\" (2006), and the independent comedies \"Expired\" and \"Kabluey\" (both 2007).\n\nGarr has not acted in films or television since 2007, though she did publicly appear at the 19th Annual Race to Erase MS (multiple sclerosis) event in 2012.\n\nIn 2006, Garr published an autobiography detailing her career and health struggles following her diagnosis with multiple sclerosis, titled \"Speedbumps: Flooring It Through Hollywood\". Garr appeared on \"The Moth Radio Hour\" broadcast of December 9, 2009 to tell a humorous reminiscence entitled \"Wake Up Call\".\n\nIn the early-1980s, Garr was in a four-year relationship with film executive Roger Birnbaum. After separating from Birnbaum, Garr was in a seven-year relationship with David Kipper, a physician, whom she was introduced to by Carrie Fisher.\n\nGarr has one daughter, Molly O'Neil, born in November 1993, who she adopted with her husband, contractor John O'Neil; the two were there on the day their adopted daughter was born. Garr and O'Neil divorced in 1996.\n\nIn July 1990, a Los Angeles County judge ordered a female stalker of Garr's to cease contacting her, as well remain 100 yards away Garr, her home, and her work locations for three years.\n\nIn October 2002, Garr publicly confirmed that she had been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. After years of uncertainty and secrecy surrounding her diagnosis, Garr explained her reasons for deciding to go public: \"I'm telling my story for the first time so I can help people. I can help people know they aren't alone and tell them there are reasons to be optimistic because, today, treatment options are available.\"\n\nIn interviews, she has commented that she first started noticing symptoms while in New York filming \"Tootsie\" around 1982. After disclosing her condition, she became a National Ambassador for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and National Chair for the Society's Women Against MS program (WAMS). In November 2005, Garr was honored as the society's Ambassador of the Year. The same year, she revealed her treatment regimen for the disease, which included regular steroid injections to help manage symptoms. \"Closer\" reported in 2015 that she credited her positive attitude and support of her family as helping her fight the disease.\n\nIn December 2006, Garr suffered a ruptured brain aneurysm. The aneurysm left Garr in a coma for weeks, but after therapy, she regained speech and motor skills, and, in 2008 appeared on \"Late Show with David Letterman\" to promote \"Expired\", a 2007 film in which she played a set of twins.\n\nIn March 1988, Garr was arrested for trespassing in Mercury, Nevada during a protest against nuclear weapons testing in the area.\n\nGarr has contributed to charity events for The Trevor Project, a non-profit gay youth suicide prevention organization.\n\nGarr has been described as a \"comedic legend.\" In 1982, film critic Pauline Kael described her as \"the funniest neurotic dizzy dame on the screen.\" She has been named as an influence by numerous performers, including Jenna Fischer and Tina Fey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3198118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3198118", "title": "Timeline of labor issues and events", "text": "Timeline of labor issues and events\n\nTimeline of organized labor history\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFounding of the Allgemeine Deutsche Arbeiter-Verbrüderung (General German Workers-Brotherhood) \n\n\n\n\n\n\nNew England Shoemakers Strike of 1860\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Battle of the Barn\nJames B. Duke and Southern Company break strike by local streetcar motormen and conductors by calling in troops. Five dead. Youngest 17 years old. Nearly two dozen wounded. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n19 September 2012 (Texas)\n\n\nAdrian Paradis, \"The Labor Reference Book\" (Philadelphia: Chilton Book Co., 1972), 133–134.\n\n"}
{"id": "17218450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17218450", "title": "United States incarceration rate", "text": "United States incarceration rate\n\nIn October 2013, the incarceration rate of the United States of America was the highest in the world, at 716 per 100,000 of the national population. While the United States represents about 4.4 percent of the world's population, it houses around 22 percent of the world's prisoners. Corrections (which includes prisons, jails, probation, and parole) cost around $74 billion in 2007 according to the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics.\n\nIn 2016, the Prison Policy Initiative estimated that in the United States, about 2,298,300 people were incarcerated out of a population of 323.1 million. This means that 0.71% of the population was behind bars. Of those who were incarcerated, about 1,351,000 people were in state prison, 646,000 in local jails, 211,000 in federal prisons, 34,000 in youth correctional facilities, 33,000 in immigration detention camps, 14,000 in territorial prisons, 5,500 in civil commitment, 2,400 in Indian country jails, and 1,400 in United States military prisons.\n\nTotal U.S. incarceration (prisons and jails) peaked in 2008. Total correctional population peaked in 2007. If all prisoners are counted (including those juvenile, territorial, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) (immigration detention), Indian country, and military), then in 2008 the United States had around 24.7% of the world's 9.8 million prisoners.\n\nThe United States has the highest documented incarceration rate in the world, at 754 per 100,000 (). As of December 31, 2010, the International Centre for Prison Studies (ICPS) at King's College London estimated 2,266,832 prisoners from a total population of 310.64 million as of this date (730 per 100,000 in 2010).\n\nThis number comprises local jails with a nominal capacity of 866,782 inmates occupied at 86.4% (June 6, 2010), state prisons with a nominal capacity of approximately 1,140,500 occupied at approximately 115% (December 31, 2010), and federal prisons with a nominal capacity of 126,863 occupied at 136.0% (December 31, 2010). Of this number, 21.5% are pretrial detainees (December 31, 2010), 8.7% are female prisoners (December 31, 2010), 0.4% are juveniles (June 6, 2009), and 5.9% are foreign prisoners (June 30, 2007).\n\nThe imprisonment rate varies widely by state; Louisiana surpasses this by about 100%, but Maine incarcerates at about a fifth this rate. A report released 28 February 2008, indicates that more than 1 in 100 adults in the United States are in prison.\n\nAccording to a U.S. Department of Justice report published in 2006, over 7.2 million people were at that time in prison, on probation, or on parole (released from prison with restrictions). That means roughly 1 in every 32 adult Americans are under some sort of criminal justice system control.\n\nIn the last forty years, incarceration has increased with rates upwards of 500% despite crime rates decreasing nationally. Between the years 2001 and 2012, crime rates (both property and violent crimes) have consistently declined at a rate of 22% after already falling an additional 30% in years prior between 1991 and 2001. As of 2012, there are 710 people per every 100,000 U.S. residents in the United States that are imprisoned in either local jails, state prisons, federal prisons, and privately operated facilities. This correlates to incarcerating a number close to almost a quarter of the prison population in the entire world. Mass incarceration is an intervening variable to more incarceration.\n\nThe Bureau of Justice Statistics has released a study which finds that, despite the total number of prisoners incarcerated for drug-related offenses increasing by 57,000 between 1997 and 2004, the proportion of drug offenders to total prisoners in State prison populations stayed steady at 21%. The percentage of Federal prisoners serving time for drug offenses declined from 63% in 1997 to 55% in that same period. In the twenty-five years since the passage of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986, the United States penal population rose from around 300,000 to more than two million. Between 1986 and 1991, African-American women's incarceration in state prisons for drug offenses increased by 828 percent.\n\nIn 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice announced that the growth rate of the state prison population had fallen to its lowest since 2006, but it still had a 0.2% growth-rate compared to the total U.S. prison population. The California state prison system population fell in 2009, the first year that populations had fallen in 38 years.\n\nWhen looking at specific populations within the criminal justice system the growth rates are vastly different. In 1977, there were just slightly more than eleven thousand incarcerated women. By 2004, the number of women under state or federal prison had increased by 757 percent, to more than 111,000, and the percentage of women in prison has increased every year, at roughly double the rate of men, since 2000. The rate of incarcerated women has expanded at about 4.6% annually between 1995 and 2005 with women now accounting for 7% of the population in state and federal prisons.\n\nComparing some countries with similar percentages of immigrants, Germany has an incarceration rate of 76 per 100,000 population (as of 2014), Italy is 85 per 100,000 (as of 2015), and Saudi Arabia is 161 per 100,000 (as of 2013). Comparing other countries with a zero tolerance policy for illegal drugs, the rate of Russia is 455 per 100,000 (as of 2015), Kazakhstan is 275 per 100,000 (as of 2015), Singapore is 220 per 100,000 (as of 2014), and Sweden is 60 per 100,000 (as of 2014).\n\nA 2014 report by the National Research Council identified two main causes of the increase in the United States' incarceration rate over the previous 40 years: longer prison sentences and increases in the likelihood of imprisonment. The same report found that longer prison sentences were the main driver of increasing incarceration rates since 1990.\n\nEven though there are other countries that commit more inmates to prison annually, the fact that the United States keeps their prisoners longer causes the total rate to become higher. To give an example, the average burglary sentence in the United States is 16 months, compared to 5 months in Canada and 7 months in England.\n\nLooking at reasons for imprisonment will further clarify why the incarceration rate and length of sentences are so high. The practice of imposing longer prison sentences on repeat offenders is common in many countries but the three-strikes laws in the U.S. with mandatory 25 year imprisonment — implemented in many states in the 1990s — are statutes enacted by state governments in the United States which mandate state courts to impose harsher sentences on habitual offenders who are previously convicted of two prior serious criminal offenses and then commit a third.\n\nCrime rates in low-income areas are much higher than in middle to high class areas. As a result, Incarceration rates in low-income areas are much higher than in wealthier areas due to these high crime rates. When the incarcerated or criminal is a youth, there is a significant impact on the individual and rippling effects on entire communities. Social capital is lost when an individual is incarcerated. How much social capital is lost is hard to accurately estimate, however Aizer and Doyle found a strong positive correlation between lower income as an adult if an individual is incarcerated in their youth in comparison to those who are not incarcerated. 63 percent to 66 percent of those involved in crimes are under the age of thirty. People incarcerated at a younger age lose the capability to invest in themselves and in their communities. Their children and families become susceptible to financial burden preventing them from escaping low-income communities. This contributes to the recurring cycle of poverty that is positively correlated with incarceration. Poverty rates have not been curbed despite steady economic growth. Poverty is not the sole dependent variable for increasing incarceration rates. Incarceration leads to more incarceration by putting families and communities at a dynamic social disadvantage.\n\nThe \"War on Drugs\" is a policy that was initiated by Richard Nixon with the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 and vigorously pursued by Ronald Reagan. By 2010, drug offenders in federal prison had increased to 500,000 per year, up from 41,000 in 1985. According to Michelle Alexander, drug related charges accounted for more than half the rise in state prisoners between 1985 and 2000. 31 million people have been arrested on drug related charges, approximately 1 in 10 Americans. In contrast, John Pfaff of Fordham Law School has accused Alexander of exaggerating the influence of the War on Drugs on the rise in the United States' incarceration rate: according to him, the percent of state prisoners whose primary offense was drug-related peaked at 22% in 1990. The Brookings Institution reconciles the differences between Alexander and Pfaff by explaining two ways to look at the prison population as it relates to drug crimes, concluding \"The picture is clear: Drug crimes have been the predominant reason for new admissions into state and federal prisons in recent decades\" and \"rolling back the war on drugs would not, as Pfaff and Urban Institute scholars maintain, totally solve the problem of mass incarceration, but it could help a great deal, by reducing exposure to prison.\" \n\nAfter the passage of Reagan's Anti-Drug Abuse Act in 1986, incarceration for non-violent offenses dramatically increased. The Act imposed the same five-year mandatory sentence on those with convictions involving crack as on those possessing 100 times as much powder cocaine. This had a disproportionate effect on low-level street dealers and users of crack, who were more commonly poor blacks, Latinos, the young, and women.\n\nCourts were given more discretion in sentencing by the \"Kimbrough v. United States\" (2007) decision, and the disparity was decreased to 18:1 by the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010. , 49.3% of state prisoners, or 656,000 individuals, were incarcerated for non-violent crimes. , 90.7% of federal prisoners, or 165,457 individuals, were incarcerated for non-violent offenses.\n\nBy 2003, 58% of all women in federal prison were convicted of drug offenses. Black and Hispanic women in particular have been disproportionately affected by the War on Drugs. Since 1986, incarceration rates have risen by 400% for women of all races, while rates for Black women have risen by 800%. Formerly incarcerated Black women are also most negatively impacted by the collateral legal consequences of conviction.\n\nAccording to the American Civil Liberties Union, \"Even when women have minimal or no involvement in the drug trade, they are increasingly caught in the ever-widening net cast by current drug laws, through provisions of the criminal law such as those involving conspiracy, accomplice liability, and constructive possession that expand criminal liability to reach partners, relatives and bystanders.\"\n\nThese new policies also disproportionately affect African-American women. According to Dorothy E. Roberts, the explanation is that poor women, who are disproportionately black, are more likely to be placed under constant supervision by the State in order to receive social services. They are then more likely to be caught by officials who are instructed to look specifically for drug offenses. Roberts argues that the criminal justice system's creation of new crimes has a direct effect on the number of women, especially black women, who then become incarcerated.\n\nOne of the first laws in the U.S. against drugs was the Opium Exclusion Act of 1909. It prohibited the smoking of opium, which was ingested but not smoked by a substantial portion of caucasian housewives in America. It was smoked mainly by Asian American immigrants coming to build the railroads. These immigrants were targeted with anti-Asian sentiment, as many voters believed they were losing jobs to Asian immigrants.\n\nThis pattern was repeated in the late twentieth century with higher penalties for crack cocaine than powder. Crack was consumed primarily by African Americans, while powder was consumed more by the white middle-class. The substantial penalties for crack contributed to the five-fold increase in incarcerations seen in the plot above. For instance, the disproportionate number of African Americans compared to other racial groups in the United States that are arrested or incarcerated. Figures from 2008 offer a better illustration of the situation with 28% of arrests involving African Americans and African American men comprising almost half of the current incarcerated population in the United States.\n\nIn the 1980s, the rising number of people incarcerated as a result of the War on Drugs and the wave of privatization that occurred under the Reagan Administration saw the emergence of the for-profit prison industry. Prior to the 1980s, private prisons did not exist in the US.\n\nIn a 2011 report by the ACLU, it is claimed that the rise of the for-profit prison industry is a \"major contributor\" to \"mass incarceration,\" along with bloated state budgets. Louisiana, for example, has the highest rate of incarceration in the world with the majority of its prisoners being housed in privatized, for-profit facilities. Such institutions could face bankruptcy without a steady influx of prisoners. A 2013 Bloomberg report states that in the past decade the number of inmates in for-profit prisons throughout the U.S. rose 44 percent.\n\nCorporations who operate prisons, such as the Corrections Corporation of America and The GEO Group, spend significant amounts of money lobbying the federal government along with state governments. The two aforementioned companies, the largest in the industry, have been contributors to the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), which seeks to expand the privatization of corrections and lobbies for policies that would increase incarceration, such as three-strike laws and \"truth-in-sentencing\" legislation. Prison companies also sign contracts with states that guarantee at least 90 percent of prison beds be filled. If these \"lockup quotas\" aren't met, the state must reimburse the prison company for the unused beds. Prison companies use the profits to expand and put pressure on lawmakers to incarcerate a certain number of people. This influence on the government by the private prison industry has been referred to as the Prison–industrial complex.\n\nThe industry is well aware of what reduced crime rates could mean to their bottom line. This from the CCA's SEC report in 2010:\n\nOur growth … depends on a number of factors we cannot control, including crime rates … [R]eductions in crime rates … could lead to reductions in arrests, convictions and sentences requiring incarceration at correctional facilities.\n\nGallup polling since 1989 has found that in most years in which there was a decline in the U.S. crime rate, a majority of Americans said that violent crime was getting worse.\n\nA substantial body of research claims that incarceration rates are primarily a function of media editorial policies, largely unrelated to the actual crime rate. \"Constructing Crime: Perspectives on Making News and Social Problems\" is a book collecting together papers on this theme. The researchers say that the jump in incarceration rate from 0.1% to 0.5% of the United States population from 1975 to 2000 (documented in the figure above) was driven by changes in the editorial policies of the mainstream commercial media and is unrelated to any actual changes in crime. Media consolidation reduced competition on content. That allowed media company executives to maintain substantially the same audience while slashing budgets for investigative journalism and filling the space from the police blotter, which tended to increase and stabilize advertising revenue. It is safer, easier and cheaper to write about crimes committed by poor people than the wealthy. Poor people can be libeled with impunity, but major advertisers can materially impact the profitability of a commercial media organization by reducing their purchases of advertising space with that organization.\n\nNews media thrive on feeding frenzies (such as missing white women) because they tend to reduce production costs while simultaneously building an audience interested in the latest development in a particular story. It takes a long time for a reporter to learn enough to write intelligently about a specific issue. Once a reporter has achieved that level of knowledge, it is easier to write subsequent stories. However, major advertisers have been known to spend their advertising budgets through different channels when they dislike the editorial policies. Therefore, a media feeding frenzy focusing on an issue of concern to an advertiser may reduce revenue and profits.\n\nSacco described how \"competing news organizations responded to each other's coverage [while] the police, in their role as gatekeepers of crime news, reacted to the increased media interest by making available more stories that reflected and reinforced\" a particular theme. \"[T]he dynamics of competitive journalism created a media feeding frenzy that found news workers 'snatching at shocking numbers' and 'smothering reports of stable or decreasing use under more ominous headlines.'\"\n\nThe reasons cited above for increased incarcerations (US racial demographics, Increased sentencing laws, and Drug sentencing laws) have been described as consequences of the shift in editorial policies of the mainstream media.\n\nAdditionally, media coverage has been proven to have a profound impact on criminal sentencing. A study conducted found that the more media attention a criminal case is given, the greater the incentive for prosecutors and judges to pursue harsher sentences. This is directly linked to the enormous increase in media coverage of crime over the past two decades. While crime decreased by 8% between 1992 and 2002, news reports on crime increased by 800% and the average prison sentence length increased by 2,000% for all crimes. Less media coverage means a greater chance of a lighter sentence or that the defendant may avoid prison time entirely.\n\nAccording to the Federal Bureau of Prisons, 77.6% of Federal inmates are U.S. citizens (as of April 2016). 15.2% are citizens of Mexico, and the next three countries—Colombia, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic, contribute less than 1% each. 4.9% have other or unknown citizenship. The Bureau did not state how many had come to the U.S. legally.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39825168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39825168", "title": "Women in Uruguay", "text": "Women in Uruguay\n\nWomen in Uruguay are women who were born in, who live in, and are from Uruguay. According to \"Countries and Their Cultures\", there is a \"very high proportion\" of Uruguayan women participating in the labor force of the South American country. The Uruguayan legislation maintains that the women of Uruguay have equal rights to power, authority, and privileges\". In reality, however, women are still not occupying \"higher economic, professional, political, social, and religious positions\". In relation to the political arena, UN Women reported that a 2012 study made by the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) ranked Uruguay as being \"103rd out of 189 countries in terms of representation of women in Parliament\". Uruguay low ranking is partly due to its low political participation of women: only 16% of members of Parliament are women as of 2014. \n\nOne prominent Uruguayan woman is Paulina Luisi. Luisi was a leader of the feminist movement in the country of Uruguay. In 1909, she became the first woman in the country to obtain a medical degree and was highly respected. She represented Uruguay in international women's conferences and traveled throughout Europe. She voiced her opinion on women's rights, and in 1919, Paulina started the force for women's rights in Uruguay. By 1922, the Pan-American Conference of Women named Paulina Luisi an honorary vice president of the meeting and she continued to be an activist until Uruguay gave women the right to vote.\n\nDomestic violence is a very serious problem, especially so-called crimes of passion, which continue to be tolerated under Article 36 of the Penal Code (The passion provoked by adultery) – \"Artículo 36. (La pasión provocada por el adulterio)\". Since 2013, there have been ongoing political efforts to remove this provision from the Criminal Code. Before 2006, perpetrators of rape could avoid punishment if, after the assault, they married the victim. Uruguay's law against domestic violence is \"Ley Nº 17.514\", enacted in 2002. \n\nThe abortion law of Uruguay is very liberal compared to the other Latin American countries.\nIn 2012, Uruguay become the second country in Latin America, after Cuba, to legalize abortion on demand (during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy).\n\nUnlike most other Latin American countries, women are not very present in politics. Uruguay has one of the lowest percentage of women in politics in Latin America.\n\n\nAsunción Lavrin, \"Women, Feminism and Social Change: Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, 1890–1940\" (Nebraska Press, 1995)\n"}
