{"id": "43767490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43767490", "title": "Adult Suffrage Society", "text": "Adult Suffrage Society\n\nThe Adult Suffrage Society was one of several organisations formed in the United Kingdom during the Manjesh and Edwardian eras, with the objective of campaigning for the extension of voting rights to women. Unlike bodies such as the Pankhursts' Women's Social and Political Union, the Adult Suffrage Society did not find acceptable the extension of the franchise to women on the same restricted terms that it was then given to men—that is, on the basis of a property qualification that excluded the majority of the working class. It wanted full adult suffrage, the unrestricted right to vote, for all adults aged 21 or over. The society's members were often referred to as \"adultists\".\n\nIn 1906 Margaret Bondfield became chair of the society, which supported the Franchise and Removal of Women'a Disabilities bill, introduced to parliament by Sir Charles Dilke on 2 March 1906. The bill, which proposed full adult suffrage, and the right of women to become MPs, was strongly opposed by the WSPU, as a distraction from its feminist agenda. The bill was \"talked out\" in the House of Commons. In 1907, in the course of a public debate with Teresa Billington-Greig of the Women's Freedom League (a breakaway group from the WSPU), Bondfield argued that the only way forward was a bill that enfranchised all men and all women, without qualification\". She wished good luck to those fighting for a \"same terms as men\" suffrage bill, but \"don't let them come and tell me that they are working for my class\". \n\nThe Adult Suffrage Society was relaunched in 1909 as the People's Suffrage Federation (PSF), under the leadership of Margaret Llewelyn Davies.\n"}
{"id": "46661462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46661462", "title": "Agim Hajrizi", "text": "Agim Hajrizi\n\nAgim Hajrizi (born Mitrovica, Kosovo, (former Yugoslavia), was an Albanian activist for human rights and the president of the Union of Independent Trade Unions of Kosova (BSPK). Agim Hajrizi was murdered by Serb paramilitary soldiers in his home in Mitrovica on 24 March 1999, with his mother Nazmie and 12-year-old son Ilir. It is thought he was targeted for his political activities.\n"}
{"id": "3307649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3307649", "title": "Ali Pasha Mubarak", "text": "Ali Pasha Mubarak\n\nAli Pasha Mubarak (, born 1823 or 1824- died on 14 November 1893) was an Egyptian public works and education minister during the second half of the nineteenth century. He is often considered one of the most influential and talented of Egypt's 19th century reformers. Ali Mubarak is known for his contribution in the reconstruction of Cairo's landscape and for founding Egypt's modern educational system.\n\nHis most famous work is titled \"al-Khitat al-Tawfiqiyya al-Jadida\" (; Tawfiq's New Plans, referring to Egypt's ruler at the time), which provides a detailed, street-by-street description of Egypt's major cities and villages.\n\nHe also contributed to the start of the Egyptian National Library and Archives around 1870 which is one of the largest and oldest government libraries.\n\nAli Mubarak was born in Brembel Al Gadidah village in the Dakahlia Governorate in 1823. Ali Mubarak did not come from a wealthy family, however, he was a part of the Mashayikh family that was known to produce the local Qadi, Imam, and Khatib. The situation of his family would indicate that Ali Mubarak would pursue a career as a religious figure for his rural community. During his youth, Ali Mubarak studied at many different schools and worked for different government clerics. He attended a government prep school before being admitted to the Cairo School of Engineering. During his studies in Cairo he was the top student and as a result was chosen to be a member of a student mission sent by Muhammad Ali to France in 1844. He studied in Paris for two years and directly after that in Metz at the (). He returned to his homeland in 1849 and was given an instructors position in the artillery school. After this in 1850, he became the first native Egyptian Muslim to be appointed the director of the entire system of government schools. This marked the beginning of his \"rich career of public service that spanned nearly four decades and included appointments as head of the ministries of education, public works, and railways.\"\n\nAfter studying under the instruction of his father during his early childhood, Ali Mubarak spent two years studying with a Faqih. This schooling experience stayed with him for most of his life. In his later years, Ali Mubarak wrote about his fear of beatings by his teacher. He never attended school without a small gift that he could give to his teacher to avoid beatings. After two years of instruction under the Faqih, Ali Mubarak refused to return to the school because he did not wish to become a Faqih. He left the school in the hopes of working under the local Katibs.\n\nAli Mubarak had two apprenticeships under two different Khatibs. Both apprenticeships ended poorly. He quit his first apprenticeship because he was maltreated and he was dismissed from the second apprenticeship because he spoke out against his master's reception of gifts. He then returned home to study under his father for a year before he began a third apprenticeship under a local government clerk. After working under the clerk for three months, Ali Mubarak still had not received his promised salary. After taking his owed salary from funds collected by the local official, Ali Mubarak was imprisoned for theft.\n\nIt was during his short imprisonment (he bribed the prison officer to let him go) that Ali Mubarak first voiced his dissatisfaction with the lack of Egyptians in the Egyptian government. Egypt was still very much a part of the Ottoman Empire at this point in time. Although Egypt was a fairly autonomous region under Muhammad Ali, the majority of officials in the Egyptian government continued to be Ottoman Turks until the mid-1800s. Ali Mubarak was determined to change the system and then aspired to attend a new modern school in Cairo where students were taught Turkish, arithmetic, and writing.\n\nIn 1836, Ali Mubarak finally achieved his goal and enrolled in the Qasr al-Ayni School where he dreamed about the fine dress of the students and the schools fine academic reputation. He soon realized, however, that the school did not measure up to the standards he had set for it. Ali Mubarak believed the school to be poorly organized with insufficient accommodations for the student body. After attending Qasr al-Ayni for a year, Ali Mubarak and his school mates were moved to Abu Zabal while their former school was transformed into a medical school. At the new school, Ali Mubarak was able to focus more of his attention on his studies as opposed to the military drills taught at Qasr al-Ayni. Ali Mubarak was still not pleased with the teaching style. He was very critical of the school's emphasis on memorization of material.\n\nIn 1844 Ali Mubarak was chosen to accompany the royal princes as they polished their education in France. Ali Mubarak spent two years studying in Paris, then two years studying at the military academy in Metz, and then spent a year studying with the French Army. Ali Mubarak was summoned back to Egypt in 1848 and was awarded the military title of \"Pasha\" because of his education with the French military. He was asked to teach at the Tura Artillery School.\n\nAli Mubarak is highly regarded because he was one of the first native born, Arabic-speaking, Muslim Egyptians to hold a prestigious government position. Mubarak's career with the Egyptian government began upon his return to Egypt in 1849. The formation of the Egyptian bureaucracy in the 1800s was largely a result of the work of Muhammad Ali. Under his reign, he established many new government departments, a centralized system of government employed by civil servants. Muhammad Ali of Egypt established six departments as part of the executive branch during his rule; Department of Marine, Department of War, Department of Finance, Department of Industry, Department of Education, and Department of Foreign Affairs. After his death in 1849, four new departments were created: the Department of Interior, Department of Public Works, Department of Justice, and Department of Agriculture.\n\nIn his government career, Ali Mubarak served as the minister heading the Egyptian government school system, the Egyptian railroads, and design and implementation of ambitious urban construction programs in Cairo, and the design and establishment of major irrigation projects.\n\nWhen Ali Mubarak returned to Egypt from his schooling in France in 1849, he was given the task to reorganize the public school system under Khedive Abbas I. \nAli Mubarak was awarded the position of director of the government education system. He remained in that position for four years and was responsible for introducing many education reforms. Under Abbas, Ali Mubarak and his two friends and colleagues, Hammad Abd al-Ati and Ali Ibrahim were assigned to assess the competence of the engineers in the Irrigation Department and the teachers in the government schools because Abbas believed them to be unqualified to hold such positions. After their review of the teachers and engineers, Abbas commissioned the three men to create an economic plan for the government education system. Ali Mubarak formulated a budget for the Department of Education that significantly cut spending. His proposal was approved in 1850 by Abbas and he was promoted to the position of colonel.\n\nIn addition to improving efficiency in the Egyptian education system, Ali Mubarak wanted to create an environment where students were inspired to be a part of the Egyptian nation and to encourage students to pursue education in modern technology. He used his past experience as a student to identify situations that needed to be addressed. One of Ali Mubarak's major projects was increasing the availability of textbooks to Egyptian students. He helped establish a movable type printing press and started a campaign to translate European textbooks into Arabic and print and distribute the textbooks to Egyptian students. Ali Mubarak also set out to improve the welfare of students by improving their food, clothing, and instruction environment. In his opinion, teachers should have a fatherly role in the eyes of their students in order for education to be the most effective.\n\nWhen Ismail ascended to rule Egypt in 1863, Ali Mubarak was one of the first men called to help reorganize the government systems. Ali Mubarak worked for a period of time supervising the construction of building, bridges, and dams before returning to the Department of Education. Under Ismail, the government passed the “Organic Law” for Egyptian education which led Egypt down the road of nationalizing the education system. As a result of this law, enrolment in modern Egyptian schools increased from 1,399 to 4,445 students between 1867 and 1878.\n\nWith a supportive executive branch of government, Ali Mubarak was able to enact a number of education reforms. One of his successful projects was the development of schools for students and military officers to learn European theories and histories of warfare. The new Egyptian school system was an influential system for teaching students new ideas about modernization.\n\nAli Mubarak's emphasis on modernizing Egypt went beyond education. During the late 1800s, Ali Mubarak played a major role in creating the outlines for the modern city layout of Cairo. The city of Cairo underwent a major modernization process during the 1800s. In 1847, Egypt was still considered to be a member of the Ottoman Empire. Even though Egypt was fairly autonomous, the elite Turkish minority, ruled the region. By the end of the nineteenth century Egypt was still considered to be a part of the Ottoman Empire, however, it was more directly ruled and influenced by the British. Egypt's relationship with Europe, (mostly Britain and France), was a catalyst for modernization. The Exposition Universelle in Paris in 1867 was a major influence on the development of the city of Cairo. The Paris Exposition Universelle laid the foundation for the idea of what constituted a modern city. Ismail was greatly affected by the Exposition. Shortly after he arrived back in Egypt, Ismail gave Ali Mubarak the head position in the Ministry of Public Works. As head of the ministry, Ali Mubarak was responsible for modernizing Cairo in a European style.\n\nMubarak and his team quickly worked together to create a blueprint for modern Cairo. They quickly identified what they believed to be the main hindrance of the city of Cairo, traffic. The use of carriages was quickly expanding in Cairo and the streets were not wide enough to accommodate so many carriages traveling in opposite directions. Mubarak and his team estimated that there were over nine hundred carriages in Cairo in 1875 and more than eighteen hundred transport cars clogging the streets of the city. In order to address the increasing traffic in the city, Mubarak planned to widen roads in Cairo by demolishing buildings on the sides of the roads. In one case, about four hundred large houses, three hundred small homes, as well as shops and mosques were demolished to make room for a two-kilometer highway. Inspired by the streets of Europe, the highway was finished with sidewalks, gaslights, and shrubbery.\n\nBy the year 1900, Cairo had undergone a vast modernization project, however, some areas of the city were untouched by the modernization attempts. Cairo became divided into an old and a new city. The modern region of the city lay to the west and north and was radically different socially and economically from the old city. While many of the elites in Egypt desired to create a European image of their country, Europeans desired to see the exotic when they traveled through Egypt.\n\nAlthough Ali Mubarak spent a lot of his time working with the Ministry of Public Works, he continued to work with the Ministry of Education. Outside of his work with the Egyptian government, Ali Mubarak also found time to write extensively on military engineering, educational theory, as well as writing an encyclopedia called, al-Khitat al-Tawfiqiyah.\n\nAli Mubarak is considered by many to be “Pioneer among Egyptian historians” because of his influential writing. He cited new scientific research and draws upon European research in his work which is completely written in Arabic. Ali Mubarak is perhaps most well known for his completion of the twenty volume “Al-Khitat al-Tawfiqiyah.” In al khitat, Ali Mubarak gives a historical and topographical description of Cairo. He gives a very detailed description of the locations of the buildings and streets of Cairo. However, in addition to classifying and ordering the locations of Cairo, Ali Mubarak also provides a commentary on institutions in Cairo.\n\nIn organizing al-Khitat, Ali Mubarak organized the history of Cairo into dynasties. He saw the development that Cairo experienced in the second half of the nineteenth century as positive progress while criticizing the state of the city when it was under Ottoman rule. In his opinion, the Ottomans did not take sufficient care of the city when they controlled most of the government. Streets, buildings, and squares were not adequately taken care of resulting in copious amounts of dust and odors overtaking many parts of the city. Mubarak believed this to be a health concern and emphasized the need for modern city throughout his writings.\n\nDuring the late nineteenth century, Egypt experienced a reawakening of interest in the history of ancient Egypt. Egyptian intellectuals worked to integrate European sciences with the study of ancient Egyptian history. They hoped that by using science to explain ancient Egyptian civilization a sense of pride and positive understanding could be fostered amongst Egyptian for their unique history. The scholars also hoped to illustrate the progress that Egypt experienced over its long history.\n\nMany Egyptians viewed the pharaohs and the physical remnants of their kingdoms as sacrilegious objects. Ali Mubarak encouraged seeking knowledge of Egypt's past. He believed that everyone should be knowledgeable about the history of his or her community. He believed that ignorance and indifference of the lives of a community's ancestors cannot foster positive growth for the future. It is only possible for a country to grow together by sharing and appreciating the past. As more intellectuals studied Egypt's ancient history and wrote and spoke about it, the past became a source for nationalistic sentiments. The work that Ali Mubarak and his colleagues undertook laid the foundations for territorially defined Egyptian nationalism in the twentieth century.\n\nAli Mubarak was a major contributor the process of creating sentiments of nationalism in Egypt through his active role in the public sphere and his many publications in Arabic. Ali Mubarak published work in a number of magazines, journals, and books and covered topics from science, education, justice, translations, and political commentaries. However, his most famous work is Al-Khitat al-tawfiqiyya al-jadida. Al-Khitat is a twenty-volume work that contains information on the geography, topography, and history of Egypt. It brought together information on literature, history and science in en encyclopedic format. Al-Khitat is considered to be Ali Mubarak's biggest achievement. Throughout the twenty volumes, Mubarak illustrates the interconnectedness of history and geography and uses the relationship between the two to create a national identity for Egypt.\n\nIn al-Khitat, Ali Mubarak emphasizes his belief that with knowledge comes technical progress and material affluence which in turn produced \"self-respect, patriotic pride, and deference to authority.\" He believed that education was the key to advancing Egypt .\n\nAs the head of the Department of Education, Ali Mubarak wrote extensively on education in Egypt. He was an advocate for European styles of education with a focus on science and enlightenment philosophy and wrote many criticisms of education in Egypt. One of the oldest educational institutions in Egypt is al-Azhar, a center for learning about Islam.\n\nAli Mubarak viewed al-Azhar as a significant part of the Egyptian history and identity because of its prominent role in educating Egyptians for centuries. However, Ali Mubarak believed that the time had come for al-Azhar to modernize. With the reforms undertaken by the Egyptian government during the nineteenth century, Ali Mubarak thought that it was only to be expected that al-Azhar modernized as well. Ali Mubarak was very critical of the traditional education system that al-Azhar used. The old traditional system did not require students to take exams and did not have a formal system to determine who graduated from al-Azhar. Students who wished to become teachers at al-Azhar studied under a teacher until they were thought to be ready to begin teaching to a class. There was no method in place to monitor the academic progress of the students. Learning was entirely dependent on the motivation of the university students. Ali Mubarak highly regarded the spiritual lessons offered by al-Azhar but believed that the lack of structure in the university fostered undisciplined behavior, immorality, pride and pettiness and the structure needed to be reformed to recreate and mold the moral identity and personality of the modern state of Egypt.\n\nAli Mubarak's primary concern regarding al-Azhar was its lack of appearance of being a modern educational institution. He did not see al-Azhar as holding an important position in modern Egypt. In order for future generations of Egyptians to be successful, they needed to have the right education. Ali Mubarak encouraged institutions to teach information produced by Europe and give students the opportunity to become productive and important members of Egyptian society.\n\n"}
{"id": "40815333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40815333", "title": "Authentic leadership", "text": "Authentic leadership\n\nAuthentic leadership is an approach to leadership that emphasizes building the leader’s legitimacy through honest relationships with followers which value their input and are built on an ethical foundation. Generally, authentic leaders are positive people with truthful self-concepts who promote openness. By building trust and generating enthusiastic support from their subordinates, authentic leaders are able to improve individual and team performance. This approach has been fully embraced by many leaders and leadership coaches who view authentic leadership as an alternative to leaders who emphasize profit and share price over people and ethics. Authentic leadership is a growing area of study in academic research on leadership which has recently grown from obscurity to the beginnings of a fully mature concept. That said, many foundational papers on this topic have recently been retracted or called into question because of issues surrounding the reporting of data and the inability of the authors to produce their original data.\n\nThe concept of “authenticity” can trace its history back to ancient Greece. Ancient Greek philosophers stressed authenticity as an important state through an emphasis on being in control of one’s own life and the ubiquitous admonition: “Know thyself”. Authentic leadership as we know it today evolved from the history of these terms. It originated in the 1960s as a means to describe how an organization reflects itself authentically through leadership. Some believed that an entire organization could act authentically like a single person through responsibility, reactions to uncertainty, and creativity. Others believed that authentic leadership is actually more about how the leaders define their own role within an organization.\n\nRecently, authentic leadership has garnered more attention among scholars and practitioners because of publications from Harvard professor and former Medtronic CEO Bill George and other calls for research. The past decade has seen a surge in publications about authentic leadership, producing new models, definitions, and theories. The emphasis on conceptual development suggest that the concept is still in the initial stages of construct evolution, though as the scholarly research on the topic progresses, the types of publications produced appear to be shifting from mostly conceptual pieces to more and more empirically based articles. This shift may be indicative of a nascent emergence of the construct from an introduction and elaboration evolutionary stage to one marked by evaluation and augmentation.\n\nBecause the concept itself is not yet fully mature in a theoretical sense, there are many different definitions of authentic leadership, each with its own nuances. However, consensus appears to be growing that authentic leadership includes these distinct qualities:\nThere is empirical research that supports a superordinate construct of authentic leadership that includes these four components. It should be noted, however, that this evidence has been called into question as a result of reporting statistically impossible results. Other papers by the same authors have been retracted for similar problems and the inability of the authors to produce evidence of their claims.\n\nSome have suggested authentic leadership need not include a moral component. Proponents of this point of view emphasize the word “authentic” in authentic leadership and suggest that one can be true to a corrupt value system and still be an authentic leader. Faking a set of ethical constraints to which a leader does not personally prescribe would be a sign of inauthenticity. Others reject the idea that a leader can truly exhibit the other components of the construct – self-awareness, relational transparency, and balanced processing – without the moral maturity associated with a positive personal value system.\n\nAuthentic leadership should be understood as a pattern of behaviors through which leaders exhibit the components of authentic leadership. Thus, it is insufficient for the leader to be self-aware, etc. without also conducting him or herself in such a way that others, particularly subordinates, view the leader as authentic.\n\nAlthough the concept of authentic leadership as an actionable model is relatively new to leadership theory and practice, there has been some initial research regarding the overall effectiveness of the model as well as the inner workings of the model within teams and organizations. This research has been used to explain what precedes the appearance of authentic leadership behaviors, what makes authentic leadership effective, and the consequences of adopting an authentic leadership style. These factors contribute to why authentic leadership works within teams and organizations.\n\nSeveral leader characteristics may be important to the appearance of authentic leadership behaviors by leaders. For instance, both leader self-knowledge and self-consistency have been shown to act as antecedents for authentic leadership (the former being a static process of understanding one’s own strengths and weaknesses and the latter consistency between their values, beliefs, and actions). This relates to the key components of authentic leadership: leaders first have to be clear about their values and convictions to be perceived as authentic by their followers and they have to demonstrate consistency between their values, beliefs, and actions.\n\nAdditional research suggests that leaders who act in accordance to the three components of positive psychological capital (PsyCap) (hope, optimism, and resiliency) are more likely to become authentic leaders. This is true for several reasons. First, leaders who can set and explain goals effectively create a more hopeful environment for their followers. Second, optimistic leaders have a greater ability to motivate their followers and help them more easily anticipate future events. Third, resilient leaders are better equipped to function in changing environments in order to support their followers.\n\nHigh and low degrees of self-monitoring in an individual has also been suggested as an antecedent of authentic leadership. Self-monitoring reflect how likely someone is to actively construct a public image that aligns with the expectations of others. It has been proposed that low self-monitoring leads to a higher degree of authentic leadership characteristics because low self-monitors and authentic leaders both act in a way that is consistent with what they believe and value. However, empirical research has not supported this theory thus far.\n\nAmong the proponents of authentic leadership, there are many theories regarding why authentic leadership is an effective leadership strategy.\n\nAuthentic leadership has been shown to promote team members’ belief in the team’s ability to succeed, known as team potency, which has in turn been shown to improve team performance. This occurs because authentic leadership behaviors promote team virtuousness which, in turn, promotes team potency and performance.\n\nAuthentic leadership has also been shown to encourage team performance by promoting trust in the group or organization, because follower trust in the leader will encourage increased loyalty to the organization, increasing performance as a result.\n\nOther research has shown that the relationship between authentic leadership and both organizational citizenship behavior and empowerment is mediated by identification with supervisors. This is because a follower’s interpersonal identification with his or her leader links leader and follower outcomes (in this case, empowerment and OCBs). It should be noted, however, that the article that these claims are based on was retracted amid concerns that the results were not reported accurately and the authors could not produce evidence to verify their claims.\n\nResearch into the mechanisms of authentic leadership is ongoing, but it is becoming clear that authentic leaders engender an emotional and/or psychological response from their followers that leads to an increase in individual and team performance.\n\nInitial research has shown that leaders who practice authentic leadership normally lead teams that perform better than teams with leaders who do not practice authentic leadership. This is not necessarily surprising as the model itself arises from successful leaders who simply described what they did and put the label “authentic leadership” on that description. The academic model that has been developed over the years since the publishing of True North has largely resulted from the work of academics to further describe the model so that it can be researched and duplicated.\n\nBoth research scientists and practitioners have an interest in measuring the level of authentic leadership exhibited by individual leaders. Scientists such as industrial-organizational psychologists and management researchers measure levels of authentic leadership as a way to study the interaction of authentic leaders with their organization. Practitioners such as management consultants and human resource professionals measure levels of authentic leadership to help assess leader behaviors within an organization.\n\nThe first significant measure specifically gauging levels of authentic leadership was the 32-item Leader Authenticity Scale (LAS). The LAS measures the leader’s tendency to behave genuinely regardless of formal job titles (referred to as salience of self over role), to acknowledge accountability for mistakes, and to avoid manipulation of subordinates. The LAS was developed by education researchers who identified leader authenticity as an important indicator of organizational climate in schools. Later researchers questioned the reliability and generalizability of the LAS due to the small and non-diverse sample used in its development.\n\nThe Authentic Leadership Questionnaire (ALQ) is a survey completed by followers to capture the level of authentic leadership behaviors exhibited by supervisors. A self-assessment version is also available. The measure, developed specifically with the emerging authentic leadership theory in mind, includes sixteen items grouped into four major subcategories: self-awareness, relational transparency, internalized moral perspective, and balanced processing.\nMost academic research since the development of the ALQ has used it to measure levels of authentic leadership. However, the ALQ has been criticized for using a qualitative (and therefore subjective) approach to validation rather than a quantitative approach. Additionally, the ALQ is a commercially copyrighted measure (only sample measures are freely available), potentially limiting its availability to scientists and practitioners.\n\nRecently, the validity of the claims made in the validation paper for this article have been called into question owing to the reporting of statistically impossible results. These allegations follow a list of retractions of similar work by the authors of this article.\n\nThe Authentic Leadership Inventory (ALI), developed in 2011, is a survey completed by followers to capture the level of authentic leadership behaviors exhibited by supervisors. Building on the theoretical research used to develop the ALQ, the ALI provides a more rigorously developed and tested measure of authentic leadership. In addition, the entire 16 item inventory is freely available.\n\nAn additional measure related to authentic leadership, the Authenticity Inventory (AL:3), is used to measure individual authenticity. Though not a leadership measure per se, it is used by some as a measure of the authenticity of a leader.\n\nThe basis of authentic leadership comes from the leader’s personal history, including life-events (often called trigger events) that direct the flow of leadership formation. How leaders interpret these personal histories and trigger events will inform their self-identity as leaders and influence their moral development and values, two essential components in the development of authentic leaders.\nBecause authenticity in leadership is rooted in being true to one’s own ideals of leadership and ethical values, authentic leadership is brought about through a lifetime of experiences and is resistant to traditional training programs. Development of authentic leaders involves guided self-reflection, building self-awareness through the use of a life-stories approach. There is now emerging evidence that group-coaching is an effective approach to Authentic Leadership Development. It may also be facilitated by the intervention of developmental trigger events coupled with directed self-reflection.\nRecognizing leadership contingency theory, which suggest that leaders must adapt their styles and behaviors to be effective across different situations, some leadership development theorists have pointed out that only the most expert of leaders can incorporate the needs of varying situations and different or diverse followers into their own underlying value system so as to remain authentic while also being effective across diverse leadership contexts.\n\nThe end of the twentieth century saw a rise of new theories of leadership that attempt to understand how leaders not only direct and manage, but also inspire their followers in unique ways. The construct of charismatic leadership was introduced in Max Weber in the 1920s but greatly expanded upon by leadership theorists beginning in the 1970s and continuing to today. Charismatic leadership theories attempt to capture the attributes and behaviors of extraordinary leaders in extraordinary situations (including variances of either dimension) in order to understand unusual or unique responses of followers. A short time later, transformational leadership theory was developed extensively. This theory differentiated “transformational” leadership behaviors from “transactional” leadership behaviors; transformational leaders inspire extraordinary action by providing insight to followers regarding the importance of their work and its outcomes, by calling on followers to subordinate their self-interest to that of the organization, and by motivating followers through activation of higher-order needs. More recent examples of what have been called neo-charismatic leadership theories include servant leadership, ethical leadership, spiritual leadership, and visionary leadership.\n\nAuthentic leadership proponents and scholars suggest that authentic leadership is conceptually distinct from these other approaches to leadership. There is empirical support for this position, as studies have shown that authentic leadership can explain variance in leadership performance over and above that explained by other leadership theories, such as transformational leadership and ethical leadership. At the same time, some theorists have suggested that authentic leadership is but one (albeit important) aspect of other forms of leadership. This ambiguous understanding of what distinguishes authentic leadership theory from other leadership theories may be considered a signal that, despite growing research into authentic leadership, the theory remains at the beginning stages of construct development; more research will be required to draw distinctions among these various leadership theories. It should also be noted, however, that many of these theories are also underdeveloped; thus the differentiation problem cannot be strictly attributed to authentic leadership theory development.\n\nSince authentic leadership is still in its infancy from a research point of view, it is necessary to further develop the theory behind it. Most articles written on the topic so far have been theoretical, suggesting that the pursuit of more empirical research is an appropriate next step.\n\nGardner, W.L., Cogliser, C.C., Davis, K.M., & Dickens, M.P. (2011). Authentic leadership: A review of the literature and research agenda. \"Leadership Quarterly, 22\", 1120-1145.\n\nGeorge, B., & Sims, P. (2007). \"True North: Discover your Authentic Leadership\". San Francisco: Jossey Bass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "602967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602967", "title": "Bread and Roses", "text": "Bread and Roses\n\n\"Bread and Roses\" is a political slogan as well as the name of an associated poem and song. It originated from a speech given by Rose Schneiderman; a line in that speech (\"The worker must have bread, but she must have roses, too.\") inspired the title of the poem \"Bread and Roses\" by James Oppenheim. The poem was first published in \"The American Magazine\" in December 1911, with the attribution line \"Bread for all, and Roses, too'—a slogan of the women in the West.\" The poem has been translated into other languages and has been set to music by at least three composers.\n\nThe phrase is commonly associated with the successful textile strike in Lawrence, Massachusetts, during January–March 1912, now often referred to as the \"Bread and Roses strike\". The slogan pairing bread and roses, appealing for both fair wages and dignified conditions, found resonance as transcending \"the sometimes tedious struggles for marginal economic advances\" in the \"light of labor struggles as based on striving for dignity and respect\", as Robert J. S. Ross wrote in 2013.\n\nThe slogan \"Bread and Roses\" originated in a speech given by Rose Schneiderman; a line in that speech (\"The worker must have bread, but she must have roses, too.\") inspired the title of the poem.\n\nAfter its first publication in 1911, the poem was published again in July 1912 in The Survey (magazine) with the same attribution as in December 1911, and again on October 4, 1912 in The Public, a weekly then published by Louis F. Post in Chicago, this time with the slogan being attributed to \"Chicago Women Trade Unionists\". The first publication in book form was in the 1915 labor anthology, \"The Cry for Justice: An Anthology of the Literature of Social Protest\" by Upton Sinclair, this time with a new attribution and rephrased slogan: \"In a parade of strikers of Lawrence, Mass, some young girls carried a banner inscribed, 'We want Bread, and Roses too!'\".\n\nThe 1912 Lawrence Textile Strike, which united dozens of immigrant communities under the leadership of the Industrial Workers of the World, was led to a large extent by women. The popular mythology of the strike includes signs being carried by women reading \"We want bread, but we want roses, too!\", though the image is probably ahistorical.\n\nTo circumvent an injunction against loitering in front of the mills, the strikers formed the first moving picket line in the US. The strike was settled on March 14, 1912 on terms generally favorable to the workers. The workers won pay increases, time-and-a-quarter pay for overtime, and a promise of no discrimination against strikers.\n\nAfter the 1915 publication in Upton Sinclair's anthology, Oppenheim's poem lay dormant until it was rediscovered after the Second World War. It was published again in January 1952 in Sing Out!.\n\nThe poem has been set to music several times. The oldest version seems to be the one attributed to \"Martha Coleman\" and \"Caroline Kohlsaat\", which suggests that both names refer to the same person. It was again set to music in 1974 by Mimi Fariña and this version has been recorded by various artists, including Judy Collins, Ani DiFranco, Utah Phillips, and Josh Lucker. John Denver also set it to music in 1988, using a melody different from the more common Mimi Fariña version. It was again set to music in Germany by Renate Fresow, using a translation by the \"Hannoveraner Weiberquartett\", but which is sung mostly with the German translation by Peter Maiwald.\n\nSince 1932, the song has been sung by graduating seniors at Mount Holyoke College during the Laurel Parade ceremony, part of the college's graduation tradition. It is also one of the central songs at Bryn Mawr College, traditionally sung at the College's \"Step-Sings.\"\n\nComposer Christian Wolff wrote a piano piece entitled \"Bread And Roses\" (1976) based on the strike song.\n\nMimi Fariña created the Bread and Roses Benefit Agency in 1974.\n\nThe logo for the Democratic Socialists of America, formed in 1982, was inspired by the slogan.\n\nIn 1989/91, Si Kahn wrote a song the refrain of which starts with the song's title: \"They all sang 'Bread and Roses'\".\n\nA quarterly journal produced by the UK section of the Industrial Workers of the World ('Wobblies') is called \"Bread and Roses\".\n\nThe 2014 film \"Pride\" depicts the members of a Welsh mining community singing \"Bread and Roses\" at a National Union of Mineworkers lodge during the UK miners' strike (1984–85).\n\nIn 2018, the song was used in a video produced by London-Irish Abortion Rights Campaign to promote the #HomeToVote movement, which encouraged young Irish people living abroad to return home to vote in the Referendum on the Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Irish Constitution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23626221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23626221", "title": "Car Allowance Rebate System", "text": "Car Allowance Rebate System\n\nThe Car Allowance Rebate System (CARS), colloquially known as \"cash for clunkers\", was a $3 billion U.S. federal scrappage program intended to provide economic incentives to U.S. residents to purchase a new, more fuel-efficient vehicle when trading in a less fuel-efficient vehicle. The program was promoted as providing stimulus to the economy by boosting auto sales, while putting safer, cleaner, and more fuel-efficient vehicles on the roadways.\n\nThe program officially started on July 1, 2009, processing of claims began July 24, and the program ended on August 24, 2009, as the appropriated funds were exhausted. The deadline for dealers to submit applications was August 25. According to estimates of the Department of Transportation, the initial $1 billion appropriated for the system was exhausted by July 30, 2009, well before the anticipated end date of November 1, 2009, due to very high demand. In response, Congress approved an additional $2 billion.\n\nA study by University of Delaware researchers concluded that for each vehicle trade, the program had a net cost of approximately $2,000, with total costs outweighing all benefits by $1.4 billion. A 2017 study in the \"American Economic Journal\" found that the program, intended to increase consumer spending, reduced total new vehicle spending by $5 billion.\n\nEconomist Alan Blinder helped popularize the idea of a scrappage program, and the moniker \"cash for clunkers\", with his July 2008 op-ed piece in \"The New York Times\". Blinder argued that a cash-for-clunkers program would have a tripartite purpose of helping the environment, stimulating the economy, and reducing economic inequality.\n\nA number of organizations advised Congress in developing the program including ACEEE, CAP Action Fund and SmartTransportation.org.\n\nJack Hidary of Smart Transportation and Bracken Hendricks of the Center for American Progress co-wrote a paper which was distributed to Congressional offices in November 2008 describing the multiple benefits of a cash-for-clunkers program.\n\nThe House approved the creation of a cash-for-clunkers program with the 298 to 119 passage of the CARS Act (\"Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Act\", H.R. 1550). The House bill, sponsored by Rep. Betty Sutton (D-Ohio), allowed consumers to trade in vehicles with a combined fuel economy of 18 or less for new, more efficient vehicles. In the Senate, Debbie Stabenow (D-Michigan), and Sam Brownback (R-Kansas) sponsored a bill very similar to the House's.\n\nAn alternative bill proposed by Dianne Feinstein (D-California), Susan Collins (R-Maine), and Charles Schumer (D-New York) would have had a greater focus on increasing fuel economy. Proponents argued that the alternative bill would lead to 32% more efficiency improvements than the House-Stabenow-Brownback version of the program. The alternative bill would have required that the trade-in vehicle have a fuel economy rating of or less and offered a three-tiered voucher system ranging from $2,500 for a new car that is more efficient than a trade-in to $4,500 for one that is more efficient. Mileage improvement requirements would be less for light and heavy duty trucks. Pre-1999 work trucks would be eligible for the $2,500 voucher regardless of mileage improvements. The alternative bill also gave a $1,000 voucher for the purchase of a more efficient used car; the House bill completely excluded used vehicles.\n\nIn the Senate, the cash-for-clunkers legislation was inserted into a larger war supplemental funding bill. Dissenting Senators raised a point of order under Rule 28, which prohibits insertion of provisions not previously passed by either house into conference reports. The rule was overridden with 60 votes, despite some senators, including Sam Brownback, being uncomfortable with a last-minute change that called for the bill's funding to come from \"deficit spending\" rather than from the stimulus package that was originally agreed upon. The larger funding bill passed by a vote of 91–5 in the Senate.\n\nThe Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 was signed into law with the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Program (C.A.R.S.) as Title XIII. The program received an initial allocation of $1 billion (out of the $4 billion estimated cost) funded by the U.S. government and the program time length was July 1 – November 1. It was implemented by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) which had 30 days from the approval of the bill to post all program details online.\n\nIn response to the U.S. Department of Transportation estimate that the $1 billion appropriated for the system was almost exhausted by July 30, 2009, due to very high demand, Congress approved an additional $2 billion for the program with the explicit support of the Obama Administration. On July 31, 2009, the House of Representatives approved the extra $2 billion for the program, and the Senate approved the extension on August 6, defeating all six amendments presented. President Barack Obama signed the bill into law on August 7, and the appropriation was exhausted by August 24, 2009.\n\n\nAccording to \"USA Today\", the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) revised its mileage estimate list just before the start of the Car Allowance Rebate System program.\n\nFor example, the 1991 Dodge Grand Caravan is listed below as ineligible because the 1991 Dodge Grand Caravan with a 4 cylinder engine has an EPA combined mileage of 19 and is not eligible; however, the V6 3.3 L and 3.8 L engines in these vehicles have EPA combined mileage of 18 and thus are eligible. The changes made some of the following cars with certain engine configurations ineligible:\n\nThe EPA \"gave no reason its ratings were inaccurate or why some went up\", according to \"USA Today\". Karl Brauer, editor in chief of Edmunds.com, said, \"It's unfortunate that consumers who had been researching and planning to trade in their vehicle ... are now left in the dust\". \"Consumers acting in good faith should not be penalized for undisclosed and last-minute changes made by the\ngovernment\", Kevin Smith, Edmunds.com editorial director, said in a statement.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Transportation ruled that deals involving cash-for-clunkers trade-ins based on old EPA mileage numbers and consummated before July 24 would be honored, but that deals consummated after July 24 on vehicles that became ineligible as clunkers due to mileage ratings changes would not be honored.\n\nDepending on the type of car purchased and \"the difference in fuel economy between the purchased vehicle and the trade-in vehicle\", the amount of the credit given in the form of vouchers to eligible customers is either $3,500 or $4,500. New car dealers will be able to reduce the purchase price by the amount of the voucher for which that the customer is eligible.\n\nTo ensure that vehicles traded-in under \"cash for clunkers\" will not be resold by dealers, the program outlines a procedure for destructively disabling the engine (and thus also precluding the possibility that any mechanical engine components might be salvaged to be used in the repair of any other vehicles): The motor oil is drained and replaced with a sodium silicate solution, then the engine is started and run until the solution, becoming glass-like when heated, causes engine internals to abrade and ultimately seize. In addition, the salvage or scrap facility which acquires the vehicle cannot sell the engine, cylinder heads or a \"rolling chassis\" from the scrap vehicle. The salvage or scrap facility can sell any other component (including the transmission and axles) from the scrap vehicle separately and may dismantle and warehouse the parts. The \"hull\" of the vehicle must be crushed within 180 days. Cut off or unbolt front end assemblies may be saved and sold at a later date, as well as the \"top and back\" of pickup cabs.\n\nThe outlined procedure says that running the engine at 2,000 RPM \"should disable the engine within a few minutes\"; if not, then allow the engine to cool off before repeating the procedure. Hazards associated with the intentional overheating and destruction of the engine include rupturing radiator and hot water/steam, motor oil ejection, toxic fumes, and fire.\n\nBy completely disabling the engine, the CARS program avoids recycling schemes such as the one discovered in Germany, where authorities found that an estimated 50,000 scrapped vehicles have been exported to Africa and Eastern Europe, where newer, safer cars of the type being destroyed in the West are prohibitively expensive, In contrast with the U.S. program, the German program only requires dealers to drop off the scrapped vehicles at junkyards, thus allowing the illegal exports.\n\nAuto recyclers and dismantlers have criticized the program due to requirements that the engine is to be disabled to prevent re-use of the car. To auto recyclers, a car's engine is considered to be the most valuable part of a junked car. Some recyclers have refused to participate in the program as well due to the limited profit potential of junking a car brought in under CARS.\n\nAfter Hurricane Katrina, vehicles that were declared as total losses in one state were transferred to other states and resold to unsuspecting consumers with clean titles. To avoid clunkers declared under the CARS program that could also find their way back onto the used-car market through surreptitious means, the federal government set up the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System (NMVTIS) to track totaled vehicles and prevent their resale. By October 2009, 28 state motor-vehicle agencies participated or contributed to NMVTIS, and 11 others were working toward participation. All states were required to be fully participating by January 1, 2010.\n\nThe CARS program required that recyclers report the Vehicle Identification Numbers (VINs) and the status of clunker to the NMVTIS within seven days of acquiring the vehicle. The searchable database (for a fee) contains information on vehicles from insurance companies, junkyards, and salvage yards.\n\nAuto Observer said there was one major technological glitch in the program. \"Government officials said the public site for customers and the site for dealer sign-ups were on the same server, which became overloaded. The site was taken down [the night of July 24, 2009] while the two functions supposedly were separated and put on two different servers\", Auto Observer reported. Dealers also had difficulty getting paperwork processed. Given the uncertainty of being paid, dealers decided to wait on destroying the old cars.\n\nBy July 29, $150 million of the $1 billion had already gone to new purchases. Dealers have had a higher volume of potential customers, partly because of other incentives offered by the manufacturers and the sellers. Some dealers believed the increase was only temporary. However, many people who visited car dealers found out their cars were not eligible, but they bought cars anyway. A lot of people who were able to participate were buying anyway, but their trade-in value jumped significantly. According to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the cars purchased had higher gas mileage than what the bill required.\n\nThe National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reported 23,000 participating dealers. Stabenow said 40,000 cars had been sold and another 200,000 sales had yet to be completed. Sutton chief of staff Nichole Francis Reynolds said, \"The program has spent $150 million and has another $800 million to $850 million in (pending) obligations. ... This is one of those programs you can really see working\". Rep. Candice Miller (R-Mich.) said, \"It has exceeded everyone's expectations\". Miller and Sutton wanted to spend a total of $4 billion on the program. Bailey Wood, legislative director of the National Auto Dealers Association, said, \"Obviously the program has been an immense success in stimulating automotive sales\".\n\nOn July 30, Wood announced the suspension of the program. White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs denied this was happening, saying the administration is \"evaluating all options\". Dealers that have been aggressively advertising the program cannot simply stop the ads, so there were concerns about whether the program would continue. According to estimates of the Department of Transportation, the $1 billion appropriated for the system was exhausted by July 30, 2009, well before the anticipated end date of November 1, 2009, due to very high demand. The House of Representatives appropriated another $2 billion to the program on July 31, with the Senate adding its approval a week later. President Barack Obama signed the bill into law on August 7, and government officials expect that the additional funds will be exhausted by Labor Day.\n\nFormer Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan said on ABC's \"This Week\" that the success of the program resulted from waiting for the economy to improve. He said, \"If ... the clunker program had been put in place six months ago, it would have probably been a dud\". Greenspan did not believe the program had stimulated the economy.\n\nOn August 3, the DoT reported from a sample of 120,000 rebate applications already processed, that \"the average gas mileage of cars being bought was 28.3 miles per gallon, for SUVs 21.9 miles per gallon, and for trucks, 16.3 miles per gallon, all significantly higher than required to get a rebate\". Senator Susan M. Collins said that \"vehicles being purchased under the program would go an average of 9.6 more miles per gallon than those being turned in, which she said was a 61 percent improvement\".\n\nThe DoT also reported that \"Ford, G.M. and Chrysler supplied 47 percent of the new vehicles, slightly more than their overall share of the market, which is 45 percent\". Detroit's Big Three automakers said the demand peak that occurred in the final week of July left their inventories of unsold vehicles at the lowest levels in many years, but such windfall could hurt sales of some popular models in August. Ford sales went up in the United States for the first time since 2007, while GM and Chrysler at least improved by slowing their decline.\n\nAfter the first week of the program, the Department of Transportation reported that the average fuel efficiency of trade-ins was , compared to for the new cars purchased to replace them, translating to a 61% fuel efficiency improvement. The DoT also commented that the program participants were downsizing, rather than making one-for-one replacements, and turning in their old trucks and SUVs for new small sedans, as 83% of the trade-ins were trucks, and 60% of new purchases were cars. , the top trade-in was the Ford Explorer 4WD and the top selling car was the Ford Focus. However, according to an analysis carried out by Edmunds based on a sample of transactions between July 24 to July 31 (the first week of the program), the Ford Escape crossover SUV was the actual best seller while the Ford Focus ranked in second place, when the tallying is done grouping different versions of the same vehicle together. As of August 21, the Department of Transportation reported that the downsizing trend continued, with the Toyota Corolla ranking as the top seller after four weeks of the program, followed by the Honda Civic, and the Ford Focus, and the Ford Explorer 4WD continued as the top trade-in.\n\nAccording to USDoT, at the end of the program Toyota accounted for 19.4% of sales, followed by General Motors with 17.6%, Ford with 14.4%, Honda with 13.0%, and Nissan with 8.7%.\n\nThe following table tabulates top replacements under the CARS program based on information submitted for rebates. Each vehicle model combines all drivetrains, hybrids and year models, which was tabulated separately in the U.S. Department of Transportation ranking.\n\n\nthe boost in demand that the rebates have brought about is exactly the sort of stimulus that is urgently needed to escape what John Maynard Keynes called a \"liquidity trap\". According to his theory, consumers may become so worried about the economy that they cling to as much liquid wealth as possible, cutting their spending sharply and thereby triggering precisely the slump they feared. Moreover, as stimulus policies go, cash-for-clunkers looks to be unusually effective. Admittedly, that is not an especially demanding measure, given that Keynes favoured, if need be, burying money in bottles for people to dig up and spend. Cash-for-clunkers has many benefits beyond simply getting more money passing through the hands of consumers and into aggregate demand.\n\n\nCharitable organizations bemoaned the program, noting the lack of repairable cars for charity purposes, and a source of revenue to fund programs. A collection of charities, under the umbrella of Pete Palmer's Vehicle Donation Processing Center, reported a 7.5% decline in car donations in the month the Car Allowance Rebate System debuted.\n\nCritics argued that people trading in cars would use such funds to mostly buy trucks, with a minimal benefit on gas mileage. However, the average fuel economy of a clunker was 15.8 mpg, compared to 25.4 mpg for the car that replaced it—a 61% improvement (37% improvement if using gallons per 1,000 miles). New federal data analyzed by The Associated Press finds that the single most common swap, at an occurrence rate of more than 8,200 times, involved Ford F-150 pickup owners. The fuel economy for the new trucks ranges from 15 to 17 miles per gallon, which equates to a mere 1 to 3 mpg improvement over the clunkers.\n\nThe Associated Press, in using Edmunds data, noted that many not-so-green cars have also been bought under CARS, notably SUVs, Trucks, Luxury, and Crossover vehicles. Some buyers have been noted to have bought the Cadillac SRX, while other vehicles such as the Hummer H3T, Lexus RX 350, Lincoln MKX, and BMW X3 are qualified under the program, despite being rated under 20 mpg, some considerably less than the average 25.3 mpg for cars purchased under CARS. The models also fall under the $45,000 threshold outlined in CARS.\n\nDeclan McCullagh, from CBSNews.com, argued that \"as fuel efficiency has increased since the early 1980s, cars get driven more. Plus, there's the environmental cost of building the new vehicles in the first place\". William Chameides, dean of the Nicholas School of the Environment at Duke University, argued that between 3 and 12 tons of carbon dioxide are emitted for each new car, due to such factors as shipping the car and the electricity consumed in manufacturing it. In addition, in order to offset the carbon footprint of the new car from a clunker (using the ratio of 18 mpg for the \"clunker\" and the minimum 22 mpg for a qualifying vehicle), the average driver would need to drive the car about five and a half years; with trucks, the figure jumps to eight or\nnine years of typical driving.\n\nHarvard economics professor Edward Glaeser argues that subsidizing fuel-efficient vehicles encourages more driving, as the marginal cost per mile driven is less, which causes total fuel consumption to decrease less than expected. He proposes that a more effective policy would be to raise taxes on carbon dioxide emissions. Bruce Belzowski, a scientist at the University of Michigan's Transportation Research Institute, notes that the number of vehicles involved in the CARS program (~250 thousand) is a small fraction of the number of vehicles currently on U.S. roads (~260 million) and thus is not expected to have an appreciable effect on pollution savings.\n\nA study by researchers at the University of Michigan evaluated the effects of the program on the average fuel economy considering a baseline without the existence of the program, since there was already a trend for buying vehicles with higher fuel economy due to the high gasoline prices of 2007 and 2008, and the economic crisis of 2008. The study found that the program improved the average fuel economy of all vehicles purchased by 0.6 mpg in July 2009 and by 0.7 mpg in August 2009, as summarized in the following table:\n\nSaving one gallon of gasoline per 100 miles saves 20 pounds of carbon dioxide, which is approximately one ton of carbon dioxide every 10,000 miles of driving. An improvement from 14 mpg to 25 mpg saves 3 gallons of gas per 100 miles, or 3 tons of carbon dioxide in 10,000 miles of driving. The replacement of older vehicles also reduces other non-greenhouse pollutants. \"Gas consumption\" calculators that translate \"miles per gallon\" to a measure of \"gallons per mile\" can help car buyers see the gas savings from their trade ins.\n\nNational Highway Traffic Safety Administration spokesman Eric Bolton pointed out the newer cars purchased under the program are also \"considerably safer than the old clunkers they are replacing\".\n\nPart of the Car Allowance Rebate System bill made buyers eligible for the scrap value of the car along with the rebate, with the dealers taking in $50 of the value and to share the rest of the value to the buyer. While some dealers and Car Dealer Associations have argued that buyers were not entitled to the scrap value of the car, advocacy groups and State Attorney's General argued that the law made the issue clear that buyers were entitled to the scrap value of the car. Some dealers have claimed that they did pass on the scrap value of the car to buyers.\n\nJalopnik reviewed the lists published by the NHTSA and found numerous cars crushed under the program that had book values far exceeding the rebates offered by the government. Among some of the cars whose book value was worth more than government rebates included models ranging from the GMC Typhoon to the Bentley Continental R. However, a further review noted that many cars that were thought of as being crushed under the program were improperly recorded and/or swapped for other car models or trims. Some exotic/collectible vehicles were scrapped under the program included a Maserati Biturbo with 18,140 miles, a GMC Syclone, which was removed from scrappage in the program by a group of car enthusiasts a GMC Typhoon, An Isuzu Vehicross, a La Forza SUV, a TVR 280i, and various Ford Mustang, Ford Taurus SHO, Chevrolet Camaro, and Chevrolet Corvette models, among other cars.\n\nOn August 20, 2009, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood announced that the program would end at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time on Monday, August 24. After the announcement, several dealers decided to stop participating in the program after Saturday, August 22, due to the difficulties in processing their reimbursements through the government web site where the paperwork must be filed.\n\nSecretary Ray LaHood also commented that \"it [had] been a thrill to be part of the best economic news story in America\", in a news conference regarding the announcement on August 20. As of early August 25, the DoT reported 665,000 dealer transactions corresponding to $2.77 billion in rebates.\n\nIn October 2011, former Obama administration economic advisor Austan Goolsbee stated that, \"the administration misjudged how quickly the country could recover from the economic damage of the 2008 economic collapse\" and now knowing that it has \"proved a longer, tougher ride than we thought at the time\", he would not have created this short-run program to stimulate the economy, but \"he supports the overall stimulus program, which he claims warded off a depression.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55527205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55527205", "title": "Central Asian revolt of 1916", "text": "Central Asian revolt of 1916\n\nThe Central Asian revolt of 1916, also known as the Semirechye Revolt and as Urkun (, \"exodus\", ) in Kyrgyzstan, was an anti-Russian uprising by the Muslim inhabitants of Russian Turkestan. Its direct cause was the conscription of Muslims who were formally exempted into a military service on the Eastern Front of World War I. Underlying issues also included tensions between different ethnic groups under Russian rule. The revolt led to the exodus of thousands of Kyrgyz and Kazakhs into China, while the suppression of the revolt by the Russian army led to thousands of deaths. However, the Russian state was not able to restore complete order until the outbreak of the October Revolution. Russian liberals like Alexander Kerensky and some Russian historians were the first to bring an international attention to these events.\nBy 1916, the Turkestan and Governor-Generalship of the Steppes had accumulated many social, land and inter-ethnic contradictions caused by the resettlement of Russian settlers, which began in the second half of the 19th century, after the Emancipation reform of 1861 which abolished serfdom. A wave of resettlement was introduced by a number of lands and legislative reforms.\n\nOn June 2, 1886, and March 25, 1891, several acts were adopted which were \"Regulations on the management of the Turkestan Krai\" and \"Regulations on the management of Akmola, Semipalatinsk, Semirechye, Ural and Turgai regions\" that allowed most of the lands of these regions to be transferred to the ownership of the Russian Empire. Each family from the local population were allowed to own a plot of land of 15 acres for a perpetual use.\n\nFrom 1906 to 1912, as a result of Stolypin reform's in Kazakhstan and the rest Central Asia, up to 500,000 peasant households were transported from central regions of Russia, which divided about 17 tithes of developed lands.\n\nAfter Emperor Nicholas II adopted on the \"requisition of foreigners\" at the age of 19 to 43 years inclusive, for rear work in the front-line areas of the First World War. The discontent of people fueled the unfair distribution of land, as well as the calls of Muslim leaders for a holy war against the Russian gaoura.\n\nOn 25 June 1916 (8 July 1916, ), shortly before the start of the rebellion, Tsar Nicholas II adopted a draft of conscripting Central Asian men from the age of 19 to 43 into labor battalions for the service in the ongoing in support of the ongoing Brusilov Offensive. Some regional Russian officers were bribed to exempt certain people from conscription. The cause of the uprising was also due to the transfer of lands by the Tsarist Government to Russian settlers, Cossack's, and poor settlers. Political and religious extremism played a role too, as well as the fear of being used as Human shields during the Russo-German trench warfare.\n\nThe first causalities of the revolt erupted in July 3-4, 1916 (16-17 July 1916, ) in Khujand, present-day Tajikistan, when an outraged mob assaulted Russian officials. However, not all 10 million people living in Turkestan were willing to participate. Such as the Tekeans living in the Transcaspian region, who were willing themselves to be conscripted. On July 7th (July 20th, ), the civil unrest spread to Tashkent, in modern-day Uzbekistan. \nThe Rebels had several demands, including Transparency in how the lists of citizens due for conscription were compiled, to delay the draft until the end of the harvest, and for one man of each family to stay at home. \n83 Russian settlers died and 70 were captured following riots in Jizzakh. Subsequently, Russian troops entered the city and captured it, causing many civilian causalities.\nOn July 17, 1916 (July 30th, ), a martial law was declared over Turkestan Military District. The insurrection began spontaneously, but it was unorganized without a single leadership; nevertheless, the rebellion took a long time to suppress. \nOn 31 July (13 August, ), Aleksey Kuropatkin, The Governor-General of Russian Turkestan, conducted a purge of the local hierarchy and convinced Nicholas II of Russia to postpone the conscription until mid-September. However, this effort proved too late to reverse the uprising. \nOn August 10th (23 August, ), Rebels numbering in the thousands attacked the city of Prebechakenska, While wielding White Banners. It was only defended by a local garrison of Russian Soldiers who were on leave from the front, who swiftly constructed two wooden cannons to try and beat back the attack. The First blew up, while the second was lost in a Kyrgyz attack. Undeterred, The defenders created 4 new cannons, which still work today. \n\nBy August 11 (24 August, ), a cavalry force of the Kyrgyz rebels disrupted a telegraph line between Verniy, Bishkek, Tashkent and European Russia. A wave of inter-ethnic violence also swept through Semirechye. Dungan detachments destroyed several Russian settlements of Ivanitskoe and Koltsovka in the region of Przhevalsk. \nA Kyrgyz attack on the Russian settlers in Sazanovka, Near lake Issyk-Kul was repelled after local women shot on the Khan leading the attack, causing the offensive to disintegrate.\n\nThe Rebels, Including those under the control of Ibrahim Tulayaf, suffered weapon shortages throughout the course of the Rebellion. Weapons used by the rebels included iron-tipped spears and horse-whips. \nAt one point in the rebellion, Ibrahim had discovered that several cart munitions would soon pass through the mountain road that followed the Chu River. Subsequently, he organized an ambush in Bomgorch. After a brief cavalry skirmish and exchange of fire, the Rebels managed to capture 7 carts, with 9 crates of guns and 12 ammunition boxes. The Rebel troops were delighted to be able to fight the Russian Army with their own tools. A rebel leader was quoted as saying \"God has given us guns that Nicholas meant to use against the Kyrgyz - His cruelty will befall his own head.\". \n\nOther villages full of Russian immigrants, Cossacks, and workers were burnt down by the insurgents. Because the majority of men got drafted and were at the home front, the settlers could not organize a resistance. Some settlers fled, Some fought, while others were helped by friendly Kyrgyz neighbors. At the beginning of the uprising, the majority of the relocated population who were mostly women, old people, and children died. Responses In a telegram to the Minister of War August 16 (29 August, ), Turkestan Governor-General and Commander of the Turkestan Military District Alexei Kuropatkin reported: \"In one Przewalski Uyezd 6024 families of Russian settlers suffered from property damage, of which the majority lost all movable property. 3478 people lost and died. \n\nIn some places, especially in the Ferghana Valley, the uprising was led by dervish preachers who were calling for a jihad. One of the first people who announced the beginning of a \"holy war\" against the \"infidels\" was Kasim-Khoja, an Imam in the main mosque of Zaamin village. He proclaimed Zaaminsky Bek and organized the murder of A local police officer Sobolev, in which after that he then appointed his own ministers and announced a military campaign to capture the railway stations of Obruchevo and Ursatievskaya. Along the way, his force killed any Russian person that was encountered. \n\nThe Governor-General of the Steppe Region Nikolai Sukhomlinov postponed the draft service until September 15, 1916 (28 September, ); however, it had no effect onto stopping the uprising in the province. Even the requests by Alikhan Bukeikhanov and Akhmet Baitursynov who were the leaders of a Kazakh nationalist movement which later became known as the Alash Party did not calm the population in an attempt to prevent brutal repressions towards unarmed civilians. The leaders repeatedly tried to convince the administration not to hurry with mobilization, conduct preparatory measures, and they also as well demanded a freedom of conscience, improving the environment of academic work, organizing the training of Kyrgyz and Kazakh children in their native language by establishing boarding schools for them and allowing local press. \n\nAs a response, around 30,000 soldiers, including Cossacks, armed with machine guns and artillery were diverted from the Eastern Front of World War I and sent in to crush the rebels, and arrived 2 weeks later via trains. The town of Novayrsiskya, which had resisted the Rebels for 12 days, was finally relieved thanks to the reinforcements.\nLocal Cossacks and settler militias played an additional role too. By the end of the summer, the insurrection was put down in the Samarkand, Syrdarya, Fergana and in the other number of regions as well, forcing the rebels into the mountains. In the mountains, the Rebels suffered from the cold. In September and early October, the revolt was suppressed in Semirechye and the last remnants of resistance were crushed in late January 1917 at the Transcaspian region. \nBy the end of Summer 1916, The Rebellion had started to wane. Aleksey Kuropatkin issued an order, explaining who was exempt from the draft, what kind of service the Kyrgyz would serve, and that conscripts would receive 1 ruble per day and free food and lodging. However, With no reliable lines of communication this message took over a month to reach the rebels. \n\nAs the uprising was being put down, there were often instances of executions including the ones committed by the settlers, which suffered brutally from the insurgents. For the murder of their parents, wives, and children; militiamen sometimes took revenge on innocent civilians or imprisoned people in those atrocities.\n\nBy order of the Turkestan governor-general, military courts were established in district cities and imposed death sentences towards all the rebels who took part in the uprising. \nIn the eastern part of Russian Turkestan, tens of thousands of surviving Kyrgyz and Kazakhs fled toward China. In the Tien-Shan Mountains they died by the thousands in mountain passes over 3,000 meters high.\nOn December 13, 1916 (December 26th, 1916 ), Alexander Kerensky convened in the Russian Parliament to propose the Segregation of the Russian settlers and the local settlers. He was quoted as saying \"How can we possibly blame a backward, uneducated and suppressed aboriginal people so dissimilar to us, for having lost patience and committing acts of revolt for which they immediately felt remorse and regret?\"\n\nArnold Toynbee alleges 500,000 Central Asian Turks perished under the Russian Empire though he admits this is speculative. Rudolph Rummel citing Toynbee states 500,000 perished within the revolt. Kyrgyz sources put the death toll between 100,000 and 270,000. Russian sources put the figure at 3,000. \nKyrgyz historian Shayyrkul Batyrbaeva put the death toll at 40,000, based on population tallies.\n\nDuring the Soviet Union, leaders of the rebellion such as Amangeldy Imanov and Alibi Jangildin were seen as revolutionary heroes against the Tsarist regime, by having many streets and settlements in Kazakhstan named after them.\n\nUrkun was not covered by Soviet textbooks, and monographs on the subject were removed from Soviet printing houses. As the Soviet Union was disintegrating in 1991, interest in Urkun grew. Some survivors have begun to label the events a \"massacre\" or \"genocide.\" In August 2016, a public commission in Kyrgyzstan concluded that the 1916 mass crackdown was labelled as \"genocide.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36899265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36899265", "title": "Climate and Development Knowledge Network", "text": "Climate and Development Knowledge Network\n\nThe Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) is a £72 million (US$100 million) initiative, formed in 2010, that links developing countries with experts on climate change. Funded by the UK's Department for International Development and the Directorate-General for International Cooperation, its aim is to help developing nations adapt to the consequences of climate change and build capacity for a low-carbon economy.\n\nCDKN does this by combining research, advisory services and knowledge management in support of locally owned and managed policy processes. It works in partnership with decision-makers in the public, private and non-governmental sectors nationally, regionally and globally.\n\nCDKN is run by an alliance of organisations, headed by PricewaterhouseCoopers and including the Overseas Development Institute, a think tank on development and humanitarian issues; Fundación Futuro Latinoamericano, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) for sustainable development based in Ecuador; LEAD Pakistan (an NGO that aims to inspire leadership in developing Asian countries); and SouthSouthNorth, (an NGO that aims to reduce poverty in Sub-Saharan Africa). \n\nCDKN works across Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean, with a focus on 12 priority countries: Kenya, Rwanda, Ethiopia, Uganda, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal, India, Indonesia, Colombia, Peru and El Salvador.\n\nCDKN hosts the Future Climate for Africa programme's Capacity Development and Knowledge Exchange Unit. Future Climate for Africa (FCFA) aims to generate fundamentally new climate science focused on Africa, and to ensure that this science has an impact on human development across the continent. FCFA's goal is to reduce disruption and damage from climate change and to safeguard economic development and poverty eradication efforts over the long-term. In this way, FCFA aims to make new African infrastructure and urban and rural plans and investments more climate-resilient.\n\nCDKN also supported seven universities from five southern African countries in a project led by the University of Cape Town, to develop a master's curriculum on climate change and sustainable development for the Southern African Regional Universities Association (SARUA).\n\nCDKN has been involved in capacity building in Rwanda through the national environment and climate change fund, FONERWA – the largest climate fund of its kind in Africa. By building capacity at national and district level to scope, develop and implement successful climate compatible development projects, the work will help support implementation of Rwanda's Green Growth & Climate Resilience Strategy and build momentum for low carbon, climate resilient economic growth in the country.\n\nAs part of continued work in Rwanda through the project, \"Building resilience in Rwanda through business collaboration,\" a CDKN-funded research study showed that small businesses around Nyabugogo River, Gatsata and other water catchment areas in Kigali could face further losses due to flooding if no urgent actions are taken to address the problem. A survey, carried out as part of the project, looked at how small businesses in Kigali are being affected by recurrent flooding, and found that the areas experienced losses estimated at Rwf178.2 million in direct and indirect damages caused by floods.\n\nThe Minister for Disaster Management and Refugee Affairs, Seraphine Mukantabana, said the findings are part of the needed continued efforts to sustain all actions for reducing disaster risks and building disaster-resilient communities: \"We have the second Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy to sustain the development momentum but we know potential obstacles that could impede achievement of these goals due to increasing disaster risks and impact of climate change.\"\n\nIn 2016, CDKN produced the report, an Economic assessment of the impacts of climate change in Uganda, which was commissioned by the Government of Uganda. It aimed to provide the Government with economic evidence on the current and future costs associated with climate variability and predicted climate change, and the necessary adaptation measures for different sectors at both national and local scales. This evidence is intended to help policy-makers mainstream climate change and resilience into national and sectoral policies and develop the case for investing in adaptation.\n\nEvidence from the study has already informed Uganda's Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) to the 21st Conference of Parties (COP 21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in Paris, France, in late 2015.\n\nAfter a heat wave hit Ahmedabad, a western city of 5.5 million people, in May 2010, killing over 1,300 people, local authorities mapped areas with \"high-risk\" populations including slums, as part of an extreme heat action plan. CDKN supported the creation and roll-out of the action plan.\n\nThe project built up public awareness of the risks of high temperatures and set up \"cooling spaces\" in temples, public buildings and malls in the summer months.\n\nThe plan also involved community outreach initiatives, putting an early warning system in place that provides a seven-day advance forecast about high temperatures and impending heat waves, and capacity-building of health-case professionals to treat people with heat-related complications. According to The Hindu, the city's Heat Action Plan, unveiled in 2013, has brought down heatwave-linked deaths by up to 25%.\n\nWomen and young people at the forefront of climate adaptation action. The Ahmedabad heat wave project shows that women hawkers and street vendors are natural and easy brokers of learning around how to deal with heat wave. They pick up measures to respond as well as pass on the message to other women and children in the city.\n\nIn Nepal, the CDKN project \"Scaling Up Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) in Nepal\", is developing portfolios of targeted climate-smart agricultural technologies and practices for benefitting women and marginalised farmers of the three agro-ecological zones of Nepal.\n\nAnother CDKN project found that the use of photovoltaic panels in an industrial sector in Sialkot, Pakistan, could mitigate up to 377,000 tons of carbon dioxide and gain average savings of US$27,400 per year on electricity costs. The project, conducted alongside Ecofys, assessed a Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA) as a policy tool to provide renewable energy to the city's industry.\n\nIn Latin America and the Caribbean, CDKN is working alongside municipal governments to orientate the growth of their cities towards low carbon and climate resilient development through the Cities Footprint Project. In its first phase, Cities Footprints has been implemented in three cities: La Paz in Bolivia, Quito in Ecuador and Lima in Perú.\nThe project focuses on assessing the carbon and water footprints of each municipal government and of each participating city, and on promoting [greenhouse gas emissions] reductions and water management measures that contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation respectively.\n\nA joint initiative between the International Development Research Centre (IDRC) and CDKN, the Resilient Cities Initiative, helps strengthen decision-making and scale-up effective action on climate resilient development to improve the livelihoods of those most affected by climate change in Latin America.\nAccording to IDRC, the projects are:\n\n\nCDKN's Negotiations Support programme provides legal and technical support to negotiators from the most climate vulnerable countries. These countries have the most to lose from climate change but are often unable to fully represent their interests in international climate negotiations.\nThe Negotiations Support programme won the International category at the Management Consulting Association Awards for the negotiation support work around the Paris Climate Agreement.\n\nCDKN funds and supports the Legal Response Initiative (LRI), which seeks to create a more level playing field between actors in the climate change negotiations.\n\nThe Legal Response Initiative provides free legal support to poor and particularly climate vulnerable developing countries, and civil society observer organisations, at international negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). It operates through a network of lawyers from law firms, barrister chambers and universities in different jurisdictions who give hands-on assistance during meetings, draft legal opinions or build the capacity of lawyers and negotiators from developing countries.\n\nThe Legal Response Initiative won 'Best Education Initiative' at the Climate Week Awards in 2014 and 2017.\n\nIn 2015, CDKN launched a digital book, Mainstreaming Climate Compatible Development, which provides insights and lessons learned from practical experience in increasing climate resilience in developing countries. It informs and supports decision makers, development planners and practitioners working to address climate change by sharing practical approaches to address key challenges of climate compatible development.\n\nIn 2015, CDKN became the co-secretariat of the Low Emission Development Strategies Global Partnership (LEDS GP) alongside the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL).\n\nCDKN is also an active member of the Climate Technology Centre and Network, the Green Growth Knowledge Platform and the Climate Knowledge Brokers Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "9000897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9000897", "title": "Combatants for Peace", "text": "Combatants for Peace\n\nCombatants for Peace (; ) is an Israeli-Palestinian NGO and an egalitarian, bi-national, grassroots movement committed to non-violent action against the “Israeli occupation and all forms of violence” in Israel and the Palestinian territories.\n\nThe movement was formed in 2006 by Palestinians and Israelis who had taken an active role in the cycle of violence, and decided to work together to promote a peaceful solution through non-violent action. Originally, the activists were solely ex-combatants: the Israeli soldiers and refuseniks of the Israeli army and Palestinian fighters. Today, members of the movement include also men and women who have never played a violent role in the conflict. Combatants for Peace is the only peace group worldwide, \"ever\" that was founded and run by ex-combatants on both sides of an active conflict. Other all other joint veteran-based peace initiatives have been co-founded only after peaceful resolution to their conflict has been achieved.\n\nThe documentary film “Disturbing The Peace” was made in 2016 about the work of Combatants For Peace. The movie is being screened throughout Israel, Palestine, the United States and Europe. The movie has won numerous awards internationally including the first ever ,\n\n\"In 2006, Palestinian and Israeli former combatants laid down their weapons and established Combatants for Peace (CfP). Committed to joint nonviolence since its foundation, CfP works to end the Israeli occupation and all forms of violence to build a peaceful future. For over a decade we have led social action based on shared values of freedom, democracy, security and dignity for all. Combatants for Peace is a strong, significant, influential binational community that exemplifies viable cooperation: co-resistance to the occupation and violence. Through joint nonviolence in the present, we lay the foundations for a nonviolent future. In keeping with our values, we work towards a two state solution, or any other mutually agreed upon solution that will allow Israelis and Palestinians to live based freedom, security, democracy and dignity in their homeland.\"\n\nCombatants for Peace describes its main goals: \n\nCombatants for Peace has organized a series of meetings between veterans from both sides, most taking place in East Jerusalem in the early years, but have expanded now into ten local bi-national groups operating between Tulkarm-Tel Aviv, Nablus-Tel Aviv, Ramallah-Tel Aviv, Jerusalem-Jericho, Jerusalem-Bethlehem, Beersheva-Hebron and in the North. Additionally, Combatants for Peace now organizes two region-wide Israeli-Palestinian bi-national groups, a Theater of the Oppressed group and women's group. They also participate in humanitarian aid work, including rebuilding demolished playgrounds, homes, schools and orchards in the West Bank.\n\nOther activities include:\n\nCombatants for Peace have been interviewed on CNN, by Democracy Now!, had a front page article in the New York Times, had several articles featured on the BBC, and were featured in the Huffington Post, the LA Times, Al Jeezera, and the front page of the Jerusalem Post.\n\nCombatants for Peace has won a series of awards for their nonviolent, joint activism including:\n"}
{"id": "20014972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20014972", "title": "Cross-border flag for Ireland", "text": "Cross-border flag for Ireland\n\nThere is no cross-border flag universally accepted as representing both jurisdictions on the island of Ireland. This can be a problem in contexts where a body organised on an all-island basis needs to be represented by a flag in an international context. \n\nThe island is politically divided into the Republic of Ireland (a sovereign state comprising 26 of Ireland's 32 traditional counties) and Northern Ireland (comprising the remaining 6 counties in the north-east of Ireland, and a part of the United Kingdom), but all-island organisations are common. Examples include the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, the Presbyterian Church in Ireland and the Church of Ireland, the Gaelic Athletic Association, and the Irish Rugby Football Union.\n\nThe Saint Patrick's Saltire was incorporated into the Union Flag in 1801 by way of the Act of Union 1800 to represent Ireland within the new United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Today, those who regard the tricolour as specific to the Republic of Ireland, or excluding unionists, may advocate it as a neutral symbol of the whole island.\n\nThe Church of Ireland orders that, apart from the flag of the Anglican Communion, only this saltire may be flown on its church grounds—as opposed to the tricolour, the Union Flag or the former flag of Northern Ireland. This follows the practice of other Anglican churches in England, Scotland, and Wales, which fly the flags of their respective patron saints instead of the Union Flag.\n\nThe saltire is also flown by St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, on graduation days, and so it can be argued that St. Patrick's Saltire is used by the main Protestant church on the island and the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nModified versions have been used formerly by the Irish Rugby Football Union, and currently by the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland and the Commissioners of Irish Lights.\nThe tricolour of green, white and orange, the official flag of the state of Ireland, is considered by Irish nationalists, to represent the entire island as well. Gerry Adams said in Dáil Éireann in 2011:\nHowever, this symbolism is rejected by Ulster unionists, as illustrated by an exchange in the House of Commons of Northern Ireland in 1951: \n\nThe Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) flies this flag at matches regardless of whether either or both teams are from Northern Ireland. It is also used for the Ireland international rules football team, selected by the GAA on an all-island basis.\nThe Golfing Union of Ireland covers the whole island and competes under the tricolour in international events such as the World Cup, Alfred Dunhill Cup and the Eisenhower Trophy.\n\nThe four provinces flag is a quartering of the arms of the four provinces of Ireland. The order of the provinces varies.\n\nThis flag was initially used on the Shannon–Erne Waterway, which is bisected by the border. Rather than flying a national flag, boats fly this green, white and blue flag. It is endorsed by the Inland Waterways Association of Ireland, an all-island organisation.\n\nThe harp (or \"\") has long been a symbol of Ireland. It first featured on Irish coins in the reign of Henry VIII around 1534. During the seventeenth and eighteenth century, the harp became adorned with progressively more decoration, ultimately becoming a \"winged maiden\". In the nineteenth century, the \"Maid of Erin\", a personification of Ireland, was a woman holding a more realistic harp than the \"winged maiden\". This style of harp was then also used in Irish flags. The harp on the modern coat of arms of Ireland is modelled on the \"Brian Boru\" harp in the library of Trinity College, Dublin, as it appeared after an 1840s restoration.\n\nThe lower left quadrant of the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom has featured a harp on a blue field, representing Ireland since 1603. The current version, designed in 1953, uses a winged-maiden harp and consists of a golden \" with silver strings on a blue background. The shade of blue in the field was known as Saint Patrick's Blue when used in 1783 for the regalia of the Order of Saint Patrick.\n\nThe change from blue to green is associated with the United Irishmen, an Irish nationalist movement associated with both Catholic and Protestant Irish — its leader Wolfe Tone was Protestant; green was a colour of rebellion in the eighteenth century. This was a common flag used to represent Ireland during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. It consisted of a gold \" on a green background. It was associated with moderate nationalism at a time when the tricolour was confined to more radical movements. It is the same as the modern Flag of Leinster.\n\nSeveral all-island sporting organisations send representative teams to compete internationally. In some cases, a flag unique to that organisation is used in lieu of a national flag. Typically such flags include one of the traditional .\n\nThe Ireland cricket team uses a blue flag depicting shamrocks.\n\nThe Ireland national field hockey team uses a bespoke flag with a shield quartered with the symbols of the four provinces.\nThe Ireland rugby team's flag is a green flag containing the shields of the four provinces and the Irish Rugby Football Union's logo. At matches outside Ireland, this is the only flag displayed. At matches in Northern Ireland (typically at Ravenhill) the Flag of Ulster (yellow background) is also displayed. This is the flag of the nine-county province (including the three Ulster counties in the Republic of Ireland), similar to but distinct from the Ulster Banner (white background), the former flag of the Northern Irish government. At matches in the Republic of Ireland (typically at Lansdowne Road), the Irish tricolour is flown along with the preceding two.\n\nEddie Irvine, a Formula One driver from Conlig in Northern Ireland, asked for a white flag with a shamrock to be used if he secured a podium finish. There had been controversy when an Irish tricolour had been used incorrectly for him in 1997. The FIA insisted the Union Flag be used in conformance with its regulations.\nThe Show Jumping Association of Ireland (SJAI; subsequently renamed Showjumping Ireland) used a green flag with its crest based on the four provinces when competing internationally, from its formation after the Second World War. In FEI Nations Cup events, Ireland was represented by the Irish Army Equitation School under the tricolour. From the late 1960s, the SJAI joined forces with the army in FEI competitions and competed under the tricolour, although it retained its own flag in other competitions until the late 1970s.\n\n"}
{"id": "9376933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9376933", "title": "Equipo Nizkor", "text": "Equipo Nizkor\n\nEquipo Nizkor (from the Hebrew נִזְכּוֹר, \"we will remember\") is a human rights NGO concerned mostly about events in Latin America, but also Europe. It is affiliated with Derechos Human Rights, Serpaj Europe and the Global Internet Liberty Campaign (GILC). It also works with the World Organization Against Torture.\n\nIt has published many articles concerning the \"Dirty War\" in the Southern Cone and Operation Condor. \n\nEquipo Nizkor's website Derechos.org provides up-to-date information on current international threats to human rights. According to Equipo Nizkor, it is the spread of information that is the first step fight human rights violations. The website publishes articles about current international relations regarding nuclear threats, drug wars, human trafficking, food crises,international law, privacy and counterintelligence and much more. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3732996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732996", "title": "Forest Reserve Act of 1891", "text": "Forest Reserve Act of 1891\n\nThe Forest Reserve Act of 1891 is a law that allowed the President of the United States to set aside forest reserves from the land in the public domain. This act passed by the United States Congress under Benjamin Harrison's administration. Harrison issued proclamations establishing of land a Forest Reserves; Grover Cleveland proclaimed and William McKinley proclaimed . In 1907 a law was passed limiting the President's authority to proclaim Forest Reserves in certain states and renamed the existing \"Forest Reserves\" as \"National Forests.\" A further provision to the act was added in 1939, when President Roosevelt added new standards to the preservation of \"Forest Reserves\" and \"National Forests\". Senator Andrew Dignum, of Massachusetts, and ambassador Bret Rodrigues of the United Nations, contributed to the act by enforcing regulation requirements for clear cutting. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "473663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473663", "title": "Frankfurter Zeitung", "text": "Frankfurter Zeitung\n\nThe Frankfurter Zeitung () was a German language newspaper that appeared from 1856 to 1943. It emerged from a market letter that was published in Frankfurt. In Nazi Germany it was considered the only mass publication not completely controlled by the Propagandaministerium under Joseph Goebbels.\n\nIn 1856, German writer and politician Leopold Sonnemann purchased a struggling market publication in Germany; the \"Frankfurter Geschäftsbericht\" (also known as \"Frankfurter Handelszeitung\"). Sonnemann changed its name to \"Neue Frankfurter Zeitung\" (later simply \"Frankfurter Zeitung\") and assumed the duties of publisher, editor, and contributing writer. The new title incorporated political news and commentary, and by the time of the foundation of the German Empire in 1871, the \"Frankfurter Zeitung\" had become an important mouthpiece of the liberal bourgeois extra-parliamentary opposition. It advocated peace in Europe before 1914 and during World War I. In Constantinople, Paul Weitz, a strong critic of German militarism and secret collaboration with the genocidal politics of the Young Turks, was the head of the bureau. His close associates included; Max Rudolf Kaufmann, a Swiss born journalist, who was arrested and deported in 1916 for his criticism of German militarism and letters by him to Berlin which reported the deplorable state of the Turkish army in the Caucasus, and Dr. Friedrich Schrader, a journalist with (in 1914) more than two decades of experience in Constantinople who commanded all major languages of Southeastern Europe and the Middle East, and contributed much about modern Turkish culture and literature. \n\nDuring the period of the Weimar Republic, the paper was treated with hostility and derision by nationalist circles, due to its pronounced favour of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919. At this time, it no longer stood in opposition to the government, and supported Gustav Stresemann's policy of reconciliation.\n\nThe \"Frankfurter Zeitung\" was one of the few democratic papers of the time. It was known in particular for its \"Feuilleton\" section, edited by Benno Reifenberg, in which works of most of the great minds of the Weimar Republic were published.\n\nAfter the 1933 assumption of power by the Nazis, several Jewish contributors had to leave the \"Frankfurter Zeitung\", including Siegfried Kracauer and Walter Benjamin. The paper was finally sold in June 1934 to the chemical corporation IG Farben. The company's directors, particularly Carl Bosch, were well-disposed toward the paper because of its place in traditional German life, and believed it could be useful in promoting favourable publicity for the company.\n\nDuring the Nazi's early time in power, the paper was initially protected by Hitler and Joseph Goebbels primarily for its convenient public relations appeal abroad, and retained more editorial independence than the rest of the press in the Third Reich. However, within a few years IG Farben gave up on the newspaper; inexorably, it had become compromised by the increasing oversight of the Nazi Ministry of Propaganda and was quickly losing its journalistic reputation abroad. The company's directors realised it no longer needed to influence domestic public opinion, \"since there was effectively no public opinion left in Germany\". The paper was quietly sold and subsumed by a subsidiary of the Nazi publishing organ, Eher Verlag, in 1938. Faced with declining readership throughout the Second World War, it was closed down entirely in August 1943.\n\nThe \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" does not consider itself a successor organisation to the original \"Zeitung\", even though many former journalists of the earlier paper helped launch it in 1949.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44053315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44053315", "title": "General Society of the War of 1812", "text": "General Society of the War of 1812\n\nThe General Society of the War of 1812 is an American non-profit corporation and charitable organization of male descendants of American veterans of the War of 1812. The General Society was founded on January 9, 1854, at the Congress Hall in Philadelphia by Joel B. Sutherland.\n\nAny male person above the age of eighteen (18) years who is a lineal descendant of one who served during the War of 1812, in the army, navy, revenue-marine, or privateer service of the United States, offering proof thereof satisfactory to the State Society to which he may, make application for membership, and who is of good moral character and reputation, may become a member of the Society when approved of by said State Society, under such regulations as it may make for passing upon applications for membership. Female persons above the age of 18 who qualify, may apply to the United States Daughters of 1812.\n\nOn January 9, 1854 (a day after the anniversary of the Battle of New Orleans), a group of over 1,500 War of 1812 veterans from across the United States met in convention at the Congress Hall in Philadelphia, having responded to a call issued by Joel B. Sutherland (1792-1861), a War of 1812 veteran and former Congressman from Philadelphia. Ostensibly called to draft resolutions pertaining to bounty land benefit legislation, the veterans assembled in Philadelphia acknowledged the need for an organization for mutual support and to perpetuate the history of the War of 1812. From this convention, the Society of the War of 1812 was founded and Sutherland was elected its first President. The Society met again in convention a year later in Washington, D.C., where they were received by President Franklin Pierce at the White House and lobbied members of Congress to secure the bounty land legislation, which was passed later in 1855. Sutherland’s goal was to form a division of the Society of the War of 1812 in each state in the union. His vision for the organization was not completed at the time of his death in 1861. Shortly thereafter, the General Society of the War of 1812 began accepting sons and grandsons of Veteran members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52969503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52969503", "title": "HTTP POST flood", "text": "HTTP POST flood\n\nAn HTTP POST flood (or simply POST flood) is a denial of service attack that uses POST requests, which are part of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). It is one kind of HTTP Flood attack.\n\nAs of late 2013, POST floods were increasingly being launched from mobile devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "6055203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6055203", "title": "Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies", "text": "Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies\n\nThe Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies is a U.S.-based policy research and advocacy organization. Their website describes them as \"a nonprofit center where we study global military policies, arms holdings, production and trade, arms control and peace-building efforts; and run educational programs on current and alternative policies.\" IDDS was founded in 1980 by Director Dr. Randall Forsberg and is based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. One of the founding members of the board was former Manhattan Project physicist Philip Morrison.\n"}
{"id": "24560690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24560690", "title": "Institute of Parliamentary and Political Law", "text": "Institute of Parliamentary and Political Law\n\nThe Institute of Parliamentary and Political Law is a Canadian not-for-profit corporation, founded in February 2008. The Institute engages in professional and educational activities aimed at interdisciplinary, comprehensive and comparative analysis of public affairs. The Institute is non-partisan, autonomous from any partisan political organizations or interests and does not engage in advocacy. It is based in Ottawa, Ontario and its national membership comes from the legal, public policy and administration, and political science communities.\n\nParliamentary and Political Law means the field of law, legal scholarship and legal practice relating to the functions and operations of parliamentary, governmental and judicial institutions and their respective officials.\n\nParliamentary Law means the body of law dealing with the establishment and functioning of parliamentary institutions, and includes the law of parliamentary privilege.\n\nPolitical Law means the body of law dealing with the structure of the State and the processes of governing, with the application of legal, public policy and political instruments of governing, and with the impact of law on democratic governing.\n\nWithin the overall domain of public law, Parliamentary and Political Law is complementary to constitutional law and administrative law. As an interdisciplinary study, it is distinct from, yet linked to, political science, and public policy and administration.\n\nThe Institute (and through its Journal) specializes in the interdisciplinary, comprehensive and comparative analysis of these topics.\n\nThe Institute publishes The Journal of Parliamentary and Political Law three times a year, which is available through Carswell Thomson.\n\nIt also hosts a bi-annual conference, and The Third \"Law and Parliament\" Conference was held\nNovember 2009 at the University of Toronto.\n\n- Honorary Patron: The Right Honourable Beverley McLachlin, Chief Justice of Canada\n\n- Chair of the Board of Directors: Robert R. Walsh, Law Clerk and Parliamentary Counsel, House of Commons\n\n- President: Christopher Axworthy, Q.C., Dean, Faculty of Law, University of Manitoba\n\n- Executive Director and Secretary of the Board, and Treasurer: Gregory Tardi,\nSenior Parliamentary Counsel, Legal Services, House of Commons\n\n"}
{"id": "7745406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7745406", "title": "International Children's Peace Prize", "text": "International Children's Peace Prize\n\nThe International Children’s Peace Prize is awarded annually to a child who has made a significant contribution to advocating children's rights and improving the situation of vulnerable children such as orphans, child labourers and children with HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe prize is an initiative of the KidsRights Foundation, an international children's aid and advocacy organisation based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. KidsRights should not be confused with the group which grants the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nThe first Children's Peace Prize was launched in November 2005 during the World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates in Rome, an annual meeting of Nobel Peace Prize winners and international organisations such as UNICEF and Amnesty International. \"We welcome the launch of Children’s Peace Prize during our summit,\" the summit's closing statement said.\n\nMikhail Gorbachev presented the 2005 prize, which was posthumously awarded to Nkosi Johnson, a South African boy who brought international attention to children with HIV/AIDS and founded the Nkosi's Haven home for HIV-positive mothers and children. The winner receives a 100,000 euro donation to benefit a charitable project for children, as well as a statuette which has been named the Nkosi in Nkosi Johnson's honour.\n\nThe 2006 award was handed out by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Frederik Willem de Klerk in a ceremony at the Binnenhof, the seat of the Dutch parliament in The Hague. The 2007 was presented at the Binnenhof by Bob Geldof and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Betty Williams. The 2008 prize was presented by Desmond Tutu.\n\nAn International Children's Peace Prize is also handed out by the Children as the Peacemakers Foundation. The World's Children's Prize for the Rights of the Child is awarded yearly by Swedish organisation Children's World.\n\n"}
{"id": "6702845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6702845", "title": "Khiam detention center", "text": "Khiam detention center\n\nThe Khiam Detention Center, located near Khiam, Lebanon, was a French army barracks complex originally built in the 1930s. It became a base for the Lebanese army before falling under control of the South Lebanon Army (SLA), an Israeli-backed breakaway group of soldiers formed during the Lebanese civil war. In 1985 the base was converted into a prison camp that was used for torture and remained in use until Israel’s withdrawal from Lebanon in May 2000, and the subsequent collapse of the SLA. After the withdrawal, the prison camp was preserved in the condition it was abandoned and converted into a museum by the Lebanese government.\n\nAmnesty International and Human Rights Watch reported the use of torture and other serious human rights abuses in the facility.\n\nRobert Fisk, the British journalist who has spent 25 years reporting from Lebanon, said about this prison:“The sadists of Khiam used to electrocute the penises of their prisoners and throw water over their bodies before plunging electrodes into their chests and kept them in pitch-black, solitary confinement for months. For many years, the Israelis even banned the Red Cross from visiting their foul prison. All the torturers fled across the border into Israel when the Israeli army retreated under fire from Lebanon almost seven years ago.”“There was the whipping pole and the window grilles where prisoners were tied naked for days, freezing water thrown over them at night. Then there were the electric leads for the little dynamo — the machine mercifully taken off to Israel by the interrogators — which had the inmates shrieking with pain when the electrodes touched their fingers or penises. And there were the handcuffs which an ex-prisoner handed to me yesterday afternoon. They were used over years to bind the arms of prisoners before interrogation. And they wore them, day and night, as they were kicked — kicked so badly in Sulieman Ramadan's case that they later had to amputate his arm. Another prisoner was so badly beaten, he lost the use of a leg. I found his crutch in Khiam prison yesterday, along with piles of Red Cross letters from prisoners — letters which the guards from Israel's now-defunct \"South Lebanon Army\" militia never bothered to forward”. In some prison cells, there were small metal cages, torturers used to make the prisoners sit inside of them and then start hitting the cage from the outside, sometimes for hours, as a form of mental torture.\n\nIsrael has denied any involvement in Khiam, allegedly claiming to have delegated operation of the detention camp to the South Lebanon Army (SLA) as early as 1988. The Israeli Defense Ministry acknowledged that personnel from Israel's General Security service \"hold meetings several times annually with SLA interrogators\" and cooperate with members of the SLA, and even assist them by means of professional guidance and training.\" It also admitted that Israel and the SLA \"consult each other regarding the arrest and release of people in the Khiam facility.\" In a court case brought by Israeli human rights lawyers, the Israeli Defense Ministry admitted paying staff at Khiam, training the interrogators and guards, and providing assistance with lie detector tests.\n\nDuring the 2006 Lebanon War, the Israeli Air Force bombed and destroyed the museum. According to locals, it was to hide the evidence of torture and mistreatment used there.\n\n"}
{"id": "12449982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12449982", "title": "LGBT rights in Brunei", "text": "LGBT rights in Brunei\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Brunei face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Homosexuality is illegal in Brunei and can be punished with up to death.\n\nOutRight Action International has described Brunei as \"the country that has the most worrisome state of rights for LGBT people in Southeast Asia.\" LGBT Bruneians feel the need to remain very discreet about their sexual orientation.\n\nThe Brunei Project, established in 2015, seeks to promote human rights, including religious freedom, free speech and LGBT rights, in Brunei through social media. The group organised a private community event in 2016, celebrating Brunei's first International Day Against Homophobia event.\n\nPrior to 2014, homosexuality was illegal and punishable by up to 10 years imprisonment, regardless of whether the act was done in private and consensual. In 2014, Brunei announced it will begin imposing Sharia law. Homosexuality is punishable with death by stoning under Sharia law.\n\nThe United Nations has urged Brunei to review its law, which has been described by many media outlets as \"medieval\", \"uncivilized\" and \"a return to the Stone Age\".\n\nLGBT people, as well as the Christian and Buddhist minorities, have been advised by international human rights activists to remain discreet in the country. Anyone caught \"tarnishing the image of Islam\" is heavily punished.\n\nOn 11 March 2015, a civil servant was fined $1000 Brunei dollars under the Syariah Penal Code Order for cross-dressing.\n\nThe LGBT community in Brunei is very hidden and secret. Bruneian society tends to associate homosexuality with \"effeminate men\".\n\nIn 2011, academics at the University of Brunei made a formal study of gay people in Brunei. The study illustrated how gay people in Brunei chose to remain silent and discreet about their sexual orientation. The researchers were only able to find 29 LGBT respondents, some of whom were foreigners.\n\nIn 2014, American reporter Patrick Brzeski reported on the \"underground gay scene\" in Brunei, with one gay Bruneian man telling him:\nIn 2017, the United States Department of State reported the following, concerning the status of LGBT rights in Brunei:\n\n"}
{"id": "36412529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36412529", "title": "Lee Man-hee", "text": "Lee Man-hee\n\nLee Man-hee (; born 15 September 1931) is a Korean religious leader. Lee is founder of the Shincheonji Church of Jesus the Temple of the Tabernacle of the Testimony (SCJ), a South Korean Christian group that has been accused of being a religious cult, who has claimed that Jesus Christ appeared before him as a \"bright heavenly figure\". He has been accused in the press of being a \"false prophet\".\n\nLee was born on 15 September 1931 in Cheongdo, North Gyeongsang Province, Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "45481407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45481407", "title": "List of Nigerian human rights activists", "text": "List of Nigerian human rights activists\n\nThere are several human right activists in Nigeria.\n\nThis is a list of notable Nigerian human rights activists in a list.\n! Name\n"}
{"id": "42903456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42903456", "title": "Manosphere", "text": "Manosphere\n\nThe manosphere is an informal network of blogs, forums and websites where commentators focus on issues relating to men and masculinity, as a male counterpart to feminism or in opposition to it. Many of these are men's spaces. \n\nThe content of manosphere articles varies widely. Common topics include the men's rights, fathers' rights, and Men Going Their Own Way (MGTOW) movements; incel; self-improvement; antifeminism; male victims of abuse; and pick-up artistry.\n\nProminent websites in the manosphere include \"SlutHate\" (formerly \"PUAHate\"), \"Return of Kings\", and \"Chateau Heartiste\". Some of these forums have been described in the media and by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) of the United States as promoting a misogynistic worldview. Some parts of the manosphere have been described as being associated with the alt-right.\n\nThe term is a neologism, a portmanteau of \"man\" and \"sphere\". Another term that has the same meaning is androsphere (from , \"anḗr\", genitive , \"andros\", \"man\"). A person who frequents online communities associated with the manosphere is sometimes called a \"manospherian\". On the other hand, a red piller (or redpiller) is someone who has shifted from previously held mainstream or feminist persuasions, towards those that are widely held within the manosphere. They sometimes pejoratively refer to their detractors as \"blue pillers\".\n\nCaitlin Dewey of \"The Washington Post\" has described the manosphere as \"a vast, diverse network of blogs and forums\". According to \"The Guardian\" columnist Eva Wiseman, the manosphere is \"a mix of men – pick-up artists, male victims of abuse, father's rights proponents – who come together online\". Notable examples of manosphere sites include the Red Pill Room, A Voice for Men and Roosh V's website Return Of Kings, as well as his personal blog and forum.\n\nThe manosphere has its own distinct jargon. Manosphere websites commonly use red pill and blue pill imagery as an analogy; accepting the manosphere's ideology is equated with \"taking the red pill\", and those who disagree with their philosophy are seen as \"blue pilled\" or as having \"taken the blue pill\". The terms \"alpha male\" and \"beta male\" are also commonly used. Due to what some manospherians view as an apathy within society towards issues faced by men and boys, some prefer to use the term reverse sexism over the term misandry. Some members of the manosphere attempt to highlight health issues that are emblematic to contemporary men, such as a successively decreasing sperm count.\n\nReddit is a popular gathering place for manosphere supporters. Several forums on the site are geared toward its ideas. One of these, the Red Pill subreddit, has more than 200,000 subscribers. Members of the incel community also frequent the manosphere. Some analysts have described the manosphere as an online version of the man cave. Social stratification is a common theme of discussion on manosphere websites. Men at the bottom of sociosexual hierarchies are sometimes referred to as \"BAFC\" (below average frustrated chump) in PUA communities, \"truecel\" in incel communities or \"omega male\" by manospherians in general.\n\nAccording to Caitlin Dewey of \"The Washington Post\", the manosphere's \"core philosophy basically boils down to this: (1) feminism has overrun/corrupted modern culture, in violation of nature/biology/inherent gender differences, and (2) men can best seduce women (slash, save society in general) by embracing a super-dominant, uber-masculine gender role, forcing ladies to fall into step behind them.\" Eva Wiseman of \"The Guardian\" said that \"Advocates of the men's rights movement are united by their belief that feminism is the enemy.\" They are strongly opposed to circumcision and believe that a double standard exists in society in how circumcision is viewed relative to female genital mutilation. \"GQ\"'s Jeff Sharlet described A Voice For Men as \"surprisingly pro-gay, or at least \"anti\"-anti-gay\". Many manospherians view the 1960s sexual revolution in a negative light. Donna Zuckerberg points out that \"Red Pill represents a new phase in online misogyny. Its members not only mock and belittle women; they also believe that in our society, men are oppressed by women.\" She adds that as of 2016, the growth of the movement and the more political tone adopted by some of its leaders is leading to an adversarial relationship between some of the components (notably between pick-up artists and Men's Human Rights Advocates).\n\n\"Return of Kings\" (RoK) is a white supremacist, alt-right blog written by self-described pick-up artist Daryush Valizadeh, known online as Roosh V. The site has hosted articles critical of same-sex marriage. The actual size of the site's following is difficult to measure, but has been estimated to comprise a scattered readership throughout North America and Western Europe.\n\nRoK is distinct from men's rights forums such as PUAHate in that it promotes seduction techniques, known as \"game\", that those sites criticize. RoK writers also criticize the profeminism men's movement and The Good Men Project, arguing that they lead to feminized, passive, weak men who are content to remain on the lowest rungs of the social hierarchy. It has been described by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a male supremacy hate group.\n\n\"Chateau Heartiste\", a blog written by James C. Weidmann, known as \"Roissy in DC\", was an early manosphere/pickup artist website. The blog advises readers to replicate the traits of narcissists and sociopaths in order to attract women. Weidmann argues that women's economic freedom, combined with racial miscegenation, immigration, and declining birth rates among white women threatens Western civilization.\n\nWeidmann has written a popular online list of rules, \"The 16 Commandments of Poon\", described by pornographic film director Anna Arrowsmith as reading \"like an adolescent list of desires and fears, as though representing two sides of the same coin, spoken by somebody with little or no dating experience\". A recurring theme in \"Chateau Heartiste\" is that \"chicks dig jerks\".\n\nPUAHate was a website for men who felt they had been tricked by members of the pick-up artist or seduction community who had promised to teach them for money how to get attractive women to have sex with them. PUAHate criticized \"the scams, deception, and misleading marketing techniques used by dating gurus and the seduction community to deceive men and profit from them\". The site complained that the seduction gurus' techniques did not work.\n\nPUAHate user Tom remarked, \"The moderation policy was very laissez-faire. There was racism; definitely a lot of misogyny.\" Journalist Patrick Kearns noted that the site had threads such as \"Are ugly women completely useless to society?\" Users would also ask each questions such as \"what's your rape count\"?\n\nElliot Rodger, perpetrator of the 23 May 2014 Isla Vista killings, was active on PUAHate, where he expressed confusion about how women could resist him. He wrote, \"One day incels will realize their true strength and numbers, and will overthrow this oppressive feminist system. Start envisioning a world where WOMEN FEAR YOU.\" In his manifesto, Rodger remarked that PUAHate \"confirmed many of the theories I had about how wicked and degenerate women really are\". Some of PUAHate's users argued that the shootings were the fault of the women who declined to have sex with Rodger.\n\nPUAHate was listed by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a hate group. On 24 May 2014, PUAHate was shut down. On 26 May, SlutHate was created and many of PUAHate's users migrated there.\n\nRod Dreher of \"The American Conservative\" has said that the manosphere \"dehumanizes both men and women\". Caitlin Dewey accuses it of excluding gay, lesbian, and transgender people.\n\nMark Potok, a spokesman of the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), said that the forums are filled with \"pure unvarnished women hatred\" and compares the manosphere to white supremacist websites. The SPLC later added a caveat, saying, \"It should be mentioned that the SPLC did not label MRAs as members of a hate movement; nor did our article claim that the grievances they air on their websites – false rape accusations, ruinous divorce settlements and the like – are all without merit. But we \"did\" call out specific examples of misogyny and the threat, overt or implicit, of violence.\"\n\nMichael Brendan Dougherty of \"Business Insider\" criticized the SPLC for including manosphere sites on its list of \"hate-groups\" and for providing pejorative personal details on the sites' authors. Mike Riggs of Libertarian magazine \"Reason\" also criticized the SPLC for defining manosphere sites as \"hate-groups\". Said Riggs, \"Take note, America: Having consensual sex with someone you don't actually like and then never calling her/him again will land you in a reputation-ruining SPLC report.\"\n\nEva Wiseman has written that commenters on manosphere blogs often make statements to the effect that \"women are designed solely for sex and sandwich-making\". She has suggested that the tone of these websites creates a culture that contributes to violence against women.\n\nFollowing the 2014 Isla Vista killings in California, many mainstream news sources reported links between the killer Elliot Rodger and posts to a manosphere forum about the pick-up artist community. Caitlin Dewey, writing for \"The Washington Post\", said that while the manosphere was not to blame for Rodger's attack and it would be irresponsible to make that claim, \"Rodger's misogynistic rhetoric seems undeniably influenced by the manosphere\". Many manosphere commenters also strongly rejected any attempts to blame the manosphere for the killings, with one commenter writing that \"His [Rodger] is a perfect case of someone who needed the red pill ... Because it's somewhere he could come to vent, and be angry, and not have his pain be dismissed, ridiculed or ignored.\" Professor Michael Kimmel similarly opined \"it would be facile to argue the manosphere ... urged [Rodger] to do this. I think those places are kind of a solace ... They provide a kind of locker room, a place where guys can gripe about all the bad things that are being done to them by women\". In the days immediately following the shooting, other manosphere sites, such as A Voice For Men, saw a huge increase in traffic.\n\nNicholas James Pell of paleoconservative site \"Taki's Magazine\" said that the manosphere \"asks difficult questions and poses uncomfortable truths\". Pell criticized a report by \"ABC News\" on the manosphere for not giving the topic \"a fair shake\" and concluded that \"the men's-rights wing of the manosphere is distinguished by a class and refinement totally missing from the shrieking hysteria of modern feminist blogging\".\n\nBBC television personality Reggie Yates made a documentary on Britons who take part in the manosphere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9807555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9807555", "title": "Margit Fischer", "text": "Margit Fischer\n\nMargit Fischer (née Binder; born 28 June 1943 in Stockholm, Sweden) is the wife of Heinz Fischer, former president of Austria.\n\nHer parents, Otto and Anna Binder, were social democrats and Jews and fled to Sweden during the Nazi regime. Mrs Fischer speaks Swedish fluently. In 1949, her family returned to Austria. She attended grammar school in Vienna and began studying arts at the University of Vienna. In 1968, she married Heinz Fischer, a social democratic politician. In 2004, her husband was elected Austrian president and she became the first lady of Austria. The couple have two children: Philip (born 1972) and Lisa (born 1975).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40697442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40697442", "title": "Mayflower Compact signatories", "text": "Mayflower Compact signatories\n\nThe Mayflower Compact was the iconic document in the earliest history of America. It was ratified by forty-one men on board the Pilgrim ship \"Mayflower\" on November 11, 1620 while anchored at Cape Cod, now Provincetown Harbor in Massachusetts. The Compact was originally drafted as an instrument to maintain unity and discipline in this new land called Plymouth Colony but, over time, it has become one of the most historic documents in American History.\n\nIt was later published in London in \"Mourt's Relation\" in 1622, and the authors had added a preamble to clarify its meaning: \"it was thought good there should be an association and agreement, that we should combine together in one body, and to submit to such government and governors as we should by common consent agree to make and choose.\"\n\nOn November 11, it was the intention of the Pilgrim leadership that each man must sign the Compact before anyone set foot on land—or mark with an X if he could not write.\n\nThe passengers probably assembled in the ship’s great cabin, about thirteen by seventeen feet, with two windows on the stern and one window on either side. Forty-one men signed the Compact, beginning with Governor John Carver and ending with Edward Lester. Nine adult males on board did not sign the document; some had been hired as seamen only for one year and others were probably too ill to write. No women signed it, in accordance with cultural and legal custom of the times.\n\nWhat is known today of the wording of the Mayflower Compact comes from William Bradford’s manuscript, apparently copied from the original document. The original of the Mayflower Compact has long been lost, possibly stolen during American Revolutionary War (1775-1783) looting. The text was first published in 1622 and then in Bradford’s journal from about 1630. But Bradford did not have a list or even gave a suggestion of the names of the signers. Plymouth Colony secretary Nathaniel Morton provides both the Compact and a list of signers in his 1669 \"New Englands Memoriall\", and many persons have thought that this list was an actual transcript of the names of all the signers and in the sequence of their signing.\n\nThe list of signers was published at least twice in the 18th century, but each time based apparently on Morton’s 1669 list and not the original. Consequently, there has been confusion for many years about the actual list of signers, with some suggesting that there would be names besides those Morton had provided if all adult male passengers had signed the compact=. Morton apparently copied from Bradford, and not from the original written and signed compact.\n\nThe Morton signer list from 1669 is what most \"Mayflower\" scholars have used when compiling a list of those who signed the Mayflower Compact. That list, basically, is used in the Stratton book on page 413 and is what is used here. There are variations in the spelling of some names between Stratton’s list and Morton’s 1669 list, and those 13 instances are also noted here.\n\nJohn Carver - An early associate of Bradford and Brewster who became a prominent member of the English Separatist church in Leiden, Holland where he was a deacon in the church. With Robert Cushman, he was an agent for the Leideners in 1620, organizing for the \"Mayflower\" voyage. He was a prosperous man who invested a large portion of his personal wealth in the voyage. He came on the \"Mayflower\" with his wife and five servants, one of whom was Roger Wilder who died early, along with a 7-year boy in his care named Jasper More. (Jasper was one of the four More children on board and one of the earliest to die.) Carver was the first governor of Plymouth Colony and died suddenly at age 56, in April or May 1621, with his wife dying shortly thereafter. His legacy was overshadowed by his failure to provide a return to \"Mayflower\"’s London investors, much to their vexation against him. The Fortune in November 1621 carried angry Merchant Adventurer letters addressed to him but by then he was already long deceased.\n\nWilliam Bradford - An early convert to the Separatist Church in Nottinghamshire England who came to Leiden, Holland about 1608 and became prominent in the church there. He came on the \"Mayflower\" with his wife Dorothy, leaving a young son in Leiden; Dorothy drowned while the ship was at anchor in Cape Cod Harbor. He became colony Governor after the death of John Carver, and was prominent in the Plymouth Church. His writings of early Plymouth Colony are important historic documents.\n\nEdward Winslow - A gentleman from a well-off family who was prominent in the Separatist church in Leiden and involved with Brewster in printing anti-Anglican church religious tracts. He boarded the \"Mayflower\" with his wife and two servants, one of whom was Elias Story, who died early along with 8-year-old Ellen More, who was in his care. His wife died in March 1621. In May 1621, he married the widow of William White as the first wedding in Plymouth Colony. He was quite prominent in colony governmental, religious, and Indian affairs. In 1646, he returned to England to join the anti-royalist Commonwealth government of Oliver Cromwell and died of fever in 1654 while on a military expedition in the Caribbean Sea.\n\nWilliam Brewster - In the 1580s, he was an assistant to William Davison, secretary to Queen Elizabeth I; Davison was a party to the 1587 execution of Mary Queen of Scots. About twenty years later, Brewster was among those prominent in the early English Separatist church, emigrating to Holland in 1608 where he became Ruling Elder of the Leiden church. While in Leiden, he was hunted by English authorities in England and Holland for printing seditious tracts against the Anglican church (Church of England), forcing him to go into hiding until the \"Mayflower\" departure. He boarded the \"Mayflower\" with his wife, two sons, and two of the four More children who were on the ship: Mary, age 4, who died early, and Richard, age 6, who survived. In Plymouth Colony, Brewster was Ruling Elder of the Plymouth Church until his death in 1644 at age 80.\n\nIsaac Allerton - A Leiden Separatist and Merchant Adventurer originally from London who boarded the \"Mayflower\" with his wife and three children. During his life, he was a ship owner involved in New England and trans-Atlantic trading. In Plymouth Colony, he was second in authority to Governor Bradford in the colony’s early years. Later, Bradford felt that Allerton had abused the colonists' trust over many years, and he was forced to leave the colony in the 1630s.\n\nMyles Standish - (Name per Morton, 1669: Miles Standish) - Standish had been a soldier of fortune, possibly from London but serving in the Low Countries in Europe prior to joining the Leiden contingent. There is evidence that he was not a member of the Leiden church but was associated with it. He came on the \"Mayflower\" with his wife Rose, who died early. He was the colony’s chief military officer and served well in that capacity until his death in 1656.\n\nJohn Alden - He may have been from Harwich in county Essex, hometown of Capt. Jones of the \"Mayflower\" to whom he was believed related by marriage. He was hired as a cooper. He married fellow \"Mayflower\" passenger Priscilla Mullins, forming the basis of the famous Longfellow romantic poem. The couple became quite prosperous from the estate of Priscilla’s father William Mullins, and John became a prominent and influential colonist involved in many governmental activities over his long life.\n\nSamuel Fuller - He was prominent among the English Separatists living in Leiden Holland and later in the activities of Plymouth Colony. He left his family in Leiden and came on the \"Mayflower\" with only young servant William Butten, who died at sea a few days before reaching Cape Cod. He was the largely self-taught physician and surgeon of the colony and died in 1633 of an infectious fever that killed many that year.\n\nChristopher Martin - He was a prosperous leader of those non-religious persons known as \"Strangers\" on the \"Mayflower\", as well as a representative of the Merchant Adventurer investment group. He came on the ship with his wife and two servants, one of whom was his step-son Solomon Prower, and John Langmore, both of whom died early deaths. He was chosen as \"governor\" of the \"Speedwell\" and then of the \"Mayflower\" when \"Speedwell\" was forced to remain in England. He had acrimonious issues with the passengers on the \"Speedwell\" and later on the \"Mayflower\", as well as issues over the purchase of voyage supplies. This required his removal by those in authority while at sea. In Plymouth, Solomon Prower died on December 24, 1620 with Martin dying in January 1621. His wife also died in the first winter.\n\nWilliam Mullins - He was a merchant shareholder in the Merchant Adventurers investment group. Bradford called him one of the more prosperous of the \"Mayflower\" passengers, traveling with his wife, son, and daughter, as well as his servant Robert Carter who died early in 1621. He had left two children in England: William Jr., who emigrated in 1636, and eldest daughter Sarah, the administrator of his estate. Mullins died in February 1621, with his wife and son dying sometime after, but before November 1621. Only his daughter Priscilla survived to marry John Alden, with her inheritance making them a prosperous colonial family.\n\nWilliam White - Apparently a prosperous London merchant who came to the \"Mayflower\" with a family and two servants, one of whom was Edward Thompson who was one of the earliest to die on December 4, 1620, and William Holbeck who died in early 1621. His wife gave birth to a son named Peregrine sometime in late November while the ship was anchored in Cape Cod Harbor, historically known as the first English child born in New England. White died in February 1621 about the same day as William Mullins. His widow Susanna married Edward Winslow in May 1621 as the first marriage in the colony. Their son Josiah Winslow (or Josias Winslow) was a historic long-term colony governor.\n\nRichard Warren - He was a London merchant whose family became one of the more prosperous in Plymouth Colony. He was prominent in colony affairs until his early death about 1628. His widow Elizabeth had come over on the Anne in 1623 with their five daughters and was able to legally assume some of his government duties after his death, unusual for a woman in that era.\n\nJohn Howland - He had no record of Leiden residence. He came on the \"Mayflower\" as a servant to John Carver and could have been the beneficiary of some of his estate upon Carver’s and his wife’s deaths, which possibly contributed to his rapid rise as a colony leader. During his long life, he was involved in numerous governmental and religious activities. He married Elizabeth, daughter of John Tilley, and had a large family with many historic descendants.\n\nStephen Hopkins - (Name per Morton, 1669: Stevin Hopkins) He was apparently a prosperous man who boarded the \"Mayflower\" with his wife, four children (with one son born later at sea), and two servants. He was the only \"Mayflower\" passenger with prior New World experience, being shipwrecked with others in Bermuda in 1609 for 9 months; they had built two small ships for escape to Virginia. In Jamestown, he worked for two years under Capt. John Smith and may have come in contact with the legendary Pocahontas, wife of fellow Bermuda castaway John Rolfe. His prior experience with Indians in Virginia served him well with Indian relationships in Plymouth Colony.\n\nEdward Tilley - (Name per Morton, 1669: Edward Tilly) He was from London and associated with Thomas Weston of the Merchant Adventurers before emigration. He and his wife were members of the Leiden contingent and both perished in the first winter, he probably in January 1621 from pneumonia caught from exploration in freezing weather. His brother John and wife also died that winter. In Edward’s care had been relatives Humility Cooper and Henry Samson, who did survive and were as orphans in company with their relative Elizabeth Tilley, the sole survivor of the John Tilley family. Elizabeth later married John Howland.\n\nJohn Tilley - (Name per Morton, 1669: John Tilly) Older brother of Edward Tilley. John and his wife both died in the first winter, as with his brother Edward and his wife. Their daughter Elizabeth survived to marry John Howland and had a large family.\n\nFrancis Cooke - (Name per Morton, 1669: Francis Cook) Early prominent member of the Leiden Separatists who was residing in Leiden well before the arrival of the English Separatists, where he married Hester Mayhieu, a French Walloon. He came over in 1620 accompanied by his son John, with the rest of his family coming over on the \"Anne\" in 1623. Over his long life, he was involved in many colonial military and governmental activities and died in 1695.\n\nThomas Rogers - He was a merchant in Leiden and a member of the Separatist church. His eldest son Joseph came with him on the \"Mayflower\" and survived him, as Thomas Rogers died in the first winter.\n\nThomas Tinker - He and his unnamed wife and son were all members of the Leiden contingent. All three died in the first winter.\n\nJohn Rigsdale - (Name per Morton, 1669: John Ridgdale) John Rigsdale and his wife Alice were from London. They both died in the early weeks of the colony. Banks has his name as \"Rigdale.\"\n\nEdward Fuller - He arrived with his wife and son Samuel in company with his brother Samuel Fuller. The names of Edward Fuller and his brother Samuel Fuller appear in a Leiden, Holland record, but there is no other information about his life in Holland. Both he and his wife died soon after arrival in Plymouth settlement, survived by their son Samuel who joined the growing group of colony orphans. Another son Matthew came later to the colony.\n\nJohn Turner - One of the earliest members of the Leiden church and a burgess of Leiden in 1610, emigrating to Leiden from England with Bradford and Brewster. He and his two unnamed sons came as members of the Leiden contingent and all died soon after arrival. He had a daughter named Elizabeth or \"Lysbet\" who came over later and married an unnamed man in Salem.\n\nFrancis Eaton - He may have been employed by the Merchant Adventurers as a carpenter for the \"Mayflower\". He arrived with his wife Sarah and son Samuel, his wife soon dying. He had two more marriages and died in 1633.\n\nJames Chilton - Author Charles Banks provides that his name was written as \"James Chylton\" in records of 1583. He was a Leiden Separatist who was about age 64 on the \"Mayflower\", making him the oldest passenger. His wife Susanna and daughter Mary came with him, with daughter Isabella coming later and daughter Ingle staying in Leiden. He died on December 8, 1620 while the ship was still anchored in Cape Cod Harbor. His wife also died in the first winter. Mary Chilton married John Winslow.\n\nJohn Crackstone/Crackston - (Name per Morton, 1669: John Craxton) A Leiden Separatist who came with his son John; married daughter Anne stayed in Leiden. He died the first winter in Plymouth, with his son John dying shortly after the 1627 cattle division.\n\nJohn Billington - He came from London and boarded the \"Mayflower\" with a wife and two sons—a non-Separatist family who were quite troublesome for their fellow passengers; Bradford wondered how they came to be associated with the \"Mayflower\". After arrival in Plymouth, they increasingly caused trouble for those in the colony and for the colony leaders. John Billington Sr. was hanged for murder in 1630, the first execution in the colony.\n\nMoses Fletcher - A Leiden Separatist who was a smith by occupation and listed Leiden as his place of residence at the time of emigration. He died shortly after arrival in the colony, and left a family in Holland that produced least 20 great-grandchildren. Evidence exists of his descendants living today in Europe.\n\nJohn Goodman - A member of the Leiden congregation thought to have died sometime after January 19, 1621 and at least by the cattle division of 1627.\n\nDegory Priest - (Name per Morton, 1669: Digery Priest) Aged about 40 in 1619, a Leiden Separatist member who was married to Sarah, sister of Isaac Allerton. He died early in January 1621, leaving a widow and two daughters. His wife returned to Holland, remarried, and came back on the \"Anne\" in 1623 with new husband Cuthbert Cuthbertson and her daughters from her first marriage.<\n\nThomas Williams - He was about age 40 on the \"Mayflower\". Bradford listed him as one of the adult men from Leiden. He and his sister lived in Leiden and were known to have been from Yarmouth in County Norfolk. He died the first winter.\n\nGilbert Winslow - He arrived with his brother Edward Winslow as part of his brother’s family. He was allowed to sign the Mayflower Compact, apparently due to his brother’s established position, being only about 20 years old then. He appeared in the 1623 land division and returned to England after a number of years in the colony and died there.\n\nEdmund Margesson - (Name per Morton, 1669: Edmond Margeson) Author Charles Banks wrote that his name may have been \"Edmund Masterson\" who was the father of Richard Masterson of Leiden who came to Plymouth later. Author Caleb Johnson writes of his name being potentially \"Margetson\". He died soon after arrival.\n\nPeter Browne - (Name per Morton, 1669: Peter Brown) He was not a Leiden Separatist and was from the same hometown as William Mullins, who also was not a Leidener. He married widow Mary Ford who may have been the only woman on the \"Fortune\" in 1621. She died in 1630 and he in 1633.\n\nRichard Britteridge - (Name per Morton, 1669: Richard Bitteridge) Probably from London, his name may have been \"Brightridge,\" per author Caleb Johnson. He was not in Leiden records. He was the first person to die after the \"Mayflower\" reached Plymouth settlement, dying on December 21, 1620, one of six passengers who died in December.\n\nGeorge Soule - He arrived from London as a servant to Edward Winslow. In his long life, he was involved in many colonial public service activities. He died in 1679.\n\nRichard Clarke - (Name per Morton, 1669: Richard Clark) Probably not a member of the Leiden congregation. No other biographical information about him. He died soon after arrival.\n\nRichard Gardiner - Per author Caleb Johnson, his name may possibly have been \"Gardinar.\" Banks wrote that he was a seaman employed by the Company to remain in the colony but instead returned to England. Banks also wrote that he was probably of Harwich in County Essex, the hometown of \"Mayflower\" captain Christopher Jones, and may have been related to him. He received one share in the colony land division of 1623 and was a crew member of the Plymouth-based \"Little James\" in 1624. Bradford wrote that he became a seaman and may have died in England or at sea, although per Johnson he may have been on the \"Little James\" when she returned to England in late 1624 as part of the Admiralty investigation into the shipwreck earlier that year.\n\nJohn Allerton - He was hired to stay in the colony for a year to work and then return to Leiden to assist others who wished to come to America, but he died sometime in the early months of 1621. There was a possible relationship to Isaac Allerton, but no documented evidence exists.\n\nThomas English - He appeared in Leiden records as \"Thomas England.\" He was a \"Mayflower\" seaman hired as master of the ship’s shallop (light sailboat), which was for coastal transportation and trading. He died in the first winter, sometime before the \"Mayflower\" departed on its return to England in April 1621.\n\nEdward Doty - (Name per Morton, 1669: Edward Doten) He was from London and came as a servant of Stephen Hopkins, also from London. Per author Caleb Johnson, his quick temper was the primary cause of numerous civil disturbances recorded against him in the more-than 30 years he lived in the colony. One of the first recorded was in June 1621 when he was in a sword and dagger fight with fellow Hopkins servant Edward Leister, where both were lightly wounded and sentenced to public punishment.\n\nEdward Lester - (Name per Morton, 1669: Edward Liester) Banks credited him with various names such as Lester, Litster, Lister, and Lyster. Bradford gave his name as \"Leister\" (\"Liester\" in the 1669 version), which seems more correct per authors Caleb Johnson and Eugene Stratton. He came from London as a servant of Stephen Hopkins, completed his apprenticeship, and then moved to Virginia Colony.\n\n"}
{"id": "24515623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24515623", "title": "Military operations other than war (Japan)", "text": "Military operations other than war (Japan)\n\nJapanese military operations other than war (MOOTW) focus on deterring war, resolving conflict, promoting peace, and supporting civil authorities in response to domestic crises.\n\nThe military in Japan is affected by Japan's pacifist post-war constitution. The initial decision to participate in UN peacekeeping missions was not uncontroversial, and its continuing role in international affairs continues to be qualified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40440833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40440833", "title": "Ministry of Economy (Serbia)", "text": "Ministry of Economy (Serbia)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Serbia () is the ministry in the Government of Serbia which is in the charge of economy. The current minister is Goran Knežević, in office since 11 August 2016.\n\nThe Ministry of Economy was established on 3 March 2004 after the dissolution of the Ministry of Privatization and Economic Reconstruction which existed from 1991 to 2004.\n\nThe Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations which existed from 1991 to 2007, merged into the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in 2007.\n\nOver the years, it has changed many secondary areas of its jurisdiction. Regional development was added in 2007, and later the Ministry of National Investment Plan merged into the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in 2011.\n\nThe Ministry of Economy was reunified from 2012 to 2013 with the Ministry of Finance under Mlađan Dinkić. At the same time, Regional Development was joined with the Local-Self Government into unified ministry (later Ministry of Public Administration and Local Self-Government).\n\nIn 2013, Ministry of Economy was once again split from Finance under Saša Radulović.\n\nThere are several sectors operating within the Ministry:\n\nThere are several agencies and institutions that operate within the scope of the Ministry:\n\nPolitical Party:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41475341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41475341", "title": "NHS Low Income Scheme", "text": "NHS Low Income Scheme\n\nThe NHS Low Income Scheme is intended to reduce the cost of NHS Prescription charges, NHS dentistry, Sight tests, Glasses and contact lenses, necessary costs of travel to receive NHS treatment, NHS wigs and fabric supports, i.e. spinal or abdominal supports or surgical brassieres supplied through a hospital. It is administered by the NHS Business Services Authority. It is not necessary to be in receipt of any benefits in order to qualify.\n\nPeople entitled to most Means-tested benefits do not need to use the scheme as they are exempt from these charges. People who get Working Tax Credit or Child Tax Credit are automatically assessed and, if entitled, issued with an NHS Tax Credit Exemption Certificate. Tax credit beneficiaries with an income less than £15,276 (2013 figure), people who get Working Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit and those who get Working Tax Credit with a disability element are entitled to a certificate.\n\nThe introduction of Universal Credit has led to complications. People entitled to Universal Credit who had net earning of less than £435 in a month should get free prescriptions on the same basis as other people in receipt of other means tested benefits. However, as of December 2017, at which point the introduction of Universal Credit (which started in April 2013) was well under way, the prescription form did not mention it. Claimants were officially advised by NHS England to tick the box for income-based Jobseeker's Allowance.\n\nCharges are not made for prescriptions, wigs, or fabric supports in Scotland, or Wales.\n\nThe assessment of means uses similar principles to those of Income Support. Weekly income is compared to assessed requirements but includes housing costs and Council Tax which Income Support does not. There is a capital limit of £23,250 for those permanently in a care home and £16,000 for everyone else.\n\nThe HC2 certificate for full help (which includes free NHS prescriptions), is issued if weekly income is less than or equal to requirements, or income is greater than requirements by no more than half the current English prescription charge. The HC3 certificate for partial help is issued if income is greater than requirements by more than half the current English prescription charge. This shows the payment liability for health costs. It is possible to apply for a refund of charges already paid when an application for a certificate is made.\n\n"}
{"id": "34875121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34875121", "title": "Nawaphon", "text": "Nawaphon\n\nThe Nawaphon movement (, alternatively transcribed as \"Navapol\", \"Nawapol\", \"Nawaphol\", translating to both \"new force\" and \"ninth force\") was a Thai extreme right-wing, patriotic, Buddhist and anti-communist propaganda organization active during the country's short democratic period in the mid-1970s.\n\nNawaphon was set up by Wattana Kiewvimol in 1974. Wattana had been the head of the \"Thai Students Association in the United States\", when he studied at Seton Hall University. Nawaphon was supported by the Internal Security Operations Command of the Thai military and the Ministry of Interior. The group was said to have links to wealthy businessmen, politicians, the National Security Council, and Thai military intelligence. Nawaphon rallied merchants, businessmen, and monks who were opposed to social change and democracy, fearing for their wealth. A notable supporter of the organization was the popular monk Kittiwuttho Bhikkhu, who infamously said that killing communists was not a sin. \n\nThe movement was opposed to parliamentary democracy and campaigned for the three principles of nation, religion, monarchy. Nawaphon attracted considerable support due to the common feeling that these national principles were threatened by left-wing forces. In the mid-1970s the movement was reported to have 500,000 followers. Nawaphon played a key role in the anti-leftist agitation that led to the Thammasat University massacre on 6 October 1976, in which members of the organization were involved. \n\nAfter the coup re-establishing the military rule following the massacre, Nawaphon's popularity diminished.\n\n"}
{"id": "52783918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52783918", "title": "Nineveh Plain Forces", "text": "Nineveh Plain Forces\n\nThe Nineveh Plain Forces () or NPF is a military organization that was formed on 6 January 2015 by indigenous Assyrian Christians in Iraq, in cooperation with Peshmerga, to defend against Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. The Nineveh plains are a region at the heart of the Assyrian homeland. The militia is affiliated with the Bet-Nahrain Democratic Party and the Beth Nahrain Patriotic Union (HBA), the latter being part of the secular Dawronoye movement. It participated in the Battle of Mosul (2016–17).\n\nOn 17 October 2016, NPF announced their intentions to participate in the planned offensive in the Nineveh Plain alongside the Iraqi Army, Peshmerga and Iraqi Federal Police. The NPF plans to liberate all Chaldean-Syriac-Assyrian villages in the Nineveh Plain.\n\nThe Chaldean Syriac Assyrian political organizations held a meeting on 29 October 2016 to continue discussions from their previous meeting that was held on 21 October 2016. The meeting was hosted by Bishop Mar Yokhana Putrus Moshe with the presence of representative of His Holiness Patriarch Mar Georgis Third Saliwa at the headquarters of the Syriac Catholic Diocese. During the meeting, they discussed ways to unite the efforts of the military and security coordination in the Nineveh Plain areas in order to enable the people of the region to management the security file. It was agreed that the military forces formations of our people are the fundamental forces to protect towns and villages in the Nineveh Plain. Seeking unity for the joint military efforts and coordination of security leaders by holding joint meetings between the stakeholders for this purpose.\n\nBetween 22 and 23 October 2016, NPF, allied with the Iraqi Army & NPU, liberated the largest Assyrian town of Baghdede from ISIS.\n\nNPF, alongside Peshmerga and NPU liberated the Assyrian village of Bartella from the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant on 24 October 2016.\n\nNPF liberated the Assyrian village of Batnaya on Tuesday 25 October alongside Dwekh Nawsha and Peshmerga forces. The NPF placed the cross on the Chaldean Catholic Mar Oraha Monastery in Batnaya after ISIS removed all Christian religious symbols from the village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20096058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20096058", "title": "Orwell's list", "text": "Orwell's list\n\nIn 1949, shortly before he died, the English author George Orwell prepared a list of notable writers and other persons he considered to be unsuitable as possible writers for the anti-communist counter-propaganda activities of the United Kingdom's Information Research Department. A copy of the list was published in \"The Guardian\" in 2002, and the original document was released by the Foreign Office soon after.\n\nThe Information Research Department (IRD) was a propaganda unit set up by the Labour government in 1948 at the Foreign Office, after the start of the Cold War.\n\nCelia Kirwan, a close friend of Orwell who had just started working as Robert Conquest's assistant at the IRD, visited Orwell at a sanatorium where he was being treated for tuberculosis in March 1949. Orwell wrote a list of names of persons he considered sympathetic to Stalinism and therefore unsuitable as writers for the Department, and enclosed it in a letter to Kirwan. The list became public in 2003.\n\nHaving worked for Cyril Connolly's \"Horizon\" magazine, and briefly as an editorial assistant for Humphrey Slater's \"Polemic\", Kirwan was Arthur Koestler's sister-in-law and one of the four women to whom Orwell proposed after the death of his wife Eileen O'Shaughnessy in 1945. Although Koestler had supported such a match, Kirwan turned him down.\n\nOrwell based his list on a strictly private notebook he had maintained since the mid-1940s of possible \"cryptos\", \"F.T.\" (his abbreviation for fellow travellers), outright members of the Communist Party of Great Britain, agents and sentimental sympathisers. The notebook, now at the Orwell Archive at University College London, contains 135 names in all, including US writers and politicians. Ten names had been crossed out, either because the person had died or because Orwell had decided that they were neither crypto-communists nor fellow travellers. The people named were a mélange: \"some famous, some obscure, some he knew personally and others he did not.\" Orwell commented in \"New Leader\" in 1947:\nThe important thing to do with these people – and it is extremely difficult, since one has only inferential evidence – is to sort them out and determine which of them is honest and which is not. There is, for instance, a whole group of M.P.s in the British Parliament ([Denis Nowell] Pritt, [Konni] Zilliacus, etc.) who are commonly nicknamed \"the cryptos\". They have undoubtedly done a great deal of mischief, especially in confusing public opinion about the nature of the puppet regimes in Eastern Europe; but one ought not hurriedly to assume that they all hold the same opinions. Probably some of them are actuated by nothing worse than stupidity.\n\nThe notebook contained columns with names, comments and various markings. Typical comments were: Stephen Spender – \"Sentimental sympathiser... Tendency towards homosexuality\"; Richard Crossman – \"Too dishonest to be outright F. T.\"; Kingsley Martin –\"Decayed liberal. Very dishonest\"; and Paul Robeson – \"very anti-white. [Henry] Wallace supporter\". Journalist Geoffrey Wheatcroft considered Orwell's remarks \"perceptive and sometimes even generous\", going on to say that \"DN Pritt is described as an 'almost certainly underground' Communist but also a \"Good MP (i.e. locally). Very able and courageous'\". Among the names, Orwell selected 38 which he forwarded to Kirwan.\n\nRichard Rees discussed the names with Orwell, later commenting that it was \"a sort of game we played – discussing who was a paid agent of what and estimating to what lengths of treachery our favourite bêtes noires would be prepared to go.\" Orwell asked Rees to fetch the notebook from Orwell's former residence on the Scottish island of Jura, Scotland in early 1949, thanking him in a letter of 17 April.\n\nOne of Orwell's biographers, Bernard Crick, thought there were 86 names in the list and that some of the names were written in the hand of Koestler, who also co-operated with the IRD in producing anti-Communist propaganda.\n\nOrwell was an ex-colonial policeman in Burma and according to Timothy Garton Ash, he liked making lists: 'In a \"London Letter\" to \"Partisan Review\" in 1942 he wrote, \"I think I could make out at least a preliminary list of the people who would go over to the Nazi side if the Germans occupied England.\"'\n\nThe British press had known about the list for some years before it was officially made public in 2003. In 1996 \"The Independent\" discussed the list and who was named on it in an article headlined, \"Orwell's little list leaves the left gasping for more\". In 1998 \"The Daily Telegraph\" \"broke\" the story with the headline \"Socialist Icon Who Became an Informer\".\n\nMichael Foot, the former leader of the Labour Party and a friend of Orwell in the 1930s and 1940s, was \"amazed\" by the revelation. Richard Gott, who in 1994 had resigned as literary editor of \"The Guardian\" after admitting that he had accepted travel expenses from the KGB in an unrelated case, referred to Orwell's list as only a \"small surprise\".\n\nThe journalist and activist Norman Ian MacKenzie, who was on the list, noted \"Tubercular people often could get very strange towards the end. I'm an Orwell man, I agreed with him on the Soviet Union, but he went partly ga-ga I think. He let his dislike of the \"New Statesman\" crowd, of what he saw as leftish, dilettante, sentimental socialists who covered up for the Popular Front in Spain [after it became communist-controlled] get the better of him.\"\n\nBernard Crick justified Orwell wanting to help the post-war Labour government. \"He did it because he thought the Communist Party was a totalitarian menace,\" he said. \"He wasn't denouncing these people as subversives. He was denouncing them as unsuitable for a counter-intelligence operation.\"\n\nProfessor Peter Davison, editor of Orwell's \"Complete Works\", said the really disappointed people will be those who claimed to have been on the list but were not.\n\nThe historian John Newsinger considered it \"a terrible mistake on his part, deriving in equal measure from his hostility to Stalinism and his illusions in the Labour government. What it certainly does not amount to, however, is an abandonment of the socialist cause or transformation into a footsoldier in the Cold War. Indeed, Orwell made clear on a number of occasions his opposition to any British McCarthyism, to any bans and proscriptions on Communist Party members (they certainly did not reciprocate this) and any notion of a preventive war. If he had lived long enough to realise what the IRD was actually about there can be no doubt that he would have broken with it\".\n\nThe journalist Neal Ascherson was critical of Orwell's decision to give the information to the IRD, claiming \"there is a difference between being determined to expose the stupidity of Stalinism and the scale of the purges and throwing yourself into the business of denouncing people you know.\" The journalist and activist Paul Foot said the revelations would not detract from Orwell's reputation as a great writer, noting \"I am a great admirer of Orwell, but we have to accept that he did take a McCarthyite position towards the end of his life.\"\n\nThe journalist and writer Alexander Cockburn was strongly critical of Orwell's actions, referring to the notebook as \"a snitch list\". Cockburn attacked Orwell's description of Paul Robeson as \"anti-white\", pointing out Robeson had campaigned to help Welsh coal miners. Cockburn also said the list revealed Orwell as a bigot: \"There seems to be general agreement by Orwell's fans, left and right, to skate gently over Orwell's suspicions of Jews, homosexuals and blacks\".\n\nCelia Kirwan said:I think George was quite right to do it. ... And, of course, everybody thinks that these people were going to be shot at dawn. The only thing that was going to happen to them was that they wouldn't be asked to write for the Information Research Department.\n\nSources vary as to the number of names on the list (figures range from 35 to 38). Names on the list include the following 39:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome of the people named in Orwell's notebook, but not appearing on the final IRD list, were:\n\n"}
{"id": "39776154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39776154", "title": "Peasant Party of Russia", "text": "Peasant Party of Russia\n\nThe Peasant Party of Russia (Russian: Крестьянская партия России) was a minor pro-reform party active in Russia during the 1990s. It was led by Yuri Chernichenko. It eventually merged with like-minded groups to form the Republican Party of Russia – People's Freedom Party\n\nThe party was founded in 1990, with the aim of resurrecting peasants-proprietors. From 1992 to 93, two Peasant Party members (Anatoliy Mostovoy and Viktor Shinkaretsky) were people's deputies of the Russian Federation. The party participated in the Democratic Russia coalition and took part in the 1993 election within the list Choice of Russia. In 1995, it participated in the parliamentary election within the Democratic Russia-United Democrats list, which failed to cross the 5 per cent barrier. It supported Boris Yeltsin's candidature for presidency in 1996. In 1998, the Peasant Party of Russia participated of the Right Cause coalition; thereafter on informal basis in the Union of Right Forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "43860388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43860388", "title": "People's Party - Reformists", "text": "People's Party - Reformists\n\nPeople's Party–Reformists () is a liberal political party in Croatia.\n\nThe civil initiative for the establishment of the party was launched by former Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats (HNS) chief Radimir Čačić and his associates Natalija Martinčević and Petar Baranović. More than two-thirds of the party members are former members of the HNS which left the party because of disagreements with its leadership over the exclusion of Radimir Čačić from the party while he was serving a prison sentence for unintentionally causing a traffic accident with two fatalities. \n\nAccording to the parties former acting president Natalija Martinčević, about 200 members from HNS Zagreb and Varaždin branches each have left the party in order to join the People's party - Reformists.\n\nThe party's founding congress was held on September 28, 2014 in Zagreb. Radimir Čačić was unanimously elected for the first party president.\n\nAhead of the 2015 parliamentary election the party formed a coalition, \"Successful Croatia\", with the centre-left Forward Croatia-Progressive Alliance. In the 2015 election, the party won one seat in the Croatian Parliament in the III electoral district, held by Radimir Čačić. Čačić voted in favor of approving Cabinet of Tihomir Orešković. Party participated at the 2016 extraordinary parliamentary election as part of the \"For Prime Minister Coalition\" led by Mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandić, and eventually won 1 seat. NS-R voted in favor of approving Cabinet of Andrej Plenković. At the 2017 local elections, Radimir Čačić was elected prefect of the Varaždin County and Darinko Dumbović mayor of Petrinja. NS-R also entered many county, city and municipal councils, mostly in Northern Croatia.\n\nThe following is a list of presidential candidates who were endorsed by NS-R.\nThe following is a summary of the party's results in legislative elections for the Croatian parliament. The \"total votes\" and \"percentage\" columns include sums of votes won by pre-election coalitions NS-R had been part of.\n"}
{"id": "3071439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3071439", "title": "Polarized pluralism", "text": "Polarized pluralism\n\nPolarized pluralism is a two-party or multi-party political system which is seen as overly polarized and therefore as dysfunctional. It was originally described by political philosopher Giovanni Sartori to define a system where moderate views are replaced by polarized views. The phrase was used by analyst Roger Cohen writing in the \"New York Times\" to describe American politics about energy, but the phrase is not widely used in mainstream newspapers.\n\nIn a typical two-party or multi-party system, the distribution of party power looks like a normal curve with a slight skew. In such a condition, most of the country is moderate or moderate-leaning left-wing or right-wing. If the country becomes polarized, then the curve becomes one with two main humps and looks like a bimodal distribution, with the power at the far political left and right ends, and a severe dip in the middle; one side will have more influence than the other, creating a strong trend to follow them. There is speculation that a nation with such a distribution, effectively having two highly separate approaches with no compromise positions in the middle, becomes difficult to govern.\n\nAn example of polarized pluralism was politics in Germany before the Nazi era in 1933. The nation had two power centers, highly split apart: communists and national socialists or Nazis. The Nazis were the stronger of the two parties and won total control of the government, and led to a condition of fascism.\n"}
{"id": "616279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=616279", "title": "Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000", "text": "Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000\n\nThe Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (c. 41) is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom that sets out how political parties, elections and referendums are to be regulated in the United Kingdom. It formed an important part of the constitutional reform programme implemented by the 1997 Labour Government, building on the Registration of Political Parties Act 1998 (c. 48) which was passed two years earlier.\n\nThe Act was introduced after consultation with major political parties, and largely followed the recommendations of the Committee on Standards in Public Life (known at the time as the \"Neill Committee\" after its chairman), an independent body set-up by former Prime Minister John Major to consider ways of making politics more transparent. The committee set out its proposals in its report, \"The Funding of Political Parties in the United Kingdom\".\n\nThe Act created an independent Electoral Commission to regulate political parties and their funding arrangements. It also required parties to submit statements of their accounts on a regular basis, and prohibited the receipt of funds from foreign or anonymous donors. Restrictions on campaign expenditure were also put in place, dictating the maximum amount that parties were able to spend.\n\nThe law gave the newly formed Electoral Commission a role in controlling the registration of political parties.\n\nThe requirement for parties to register with an official body, if they wished to be named on ballot papers, was the result of a fairly wide acceptance that the finances of political groups should be regulated to reduce the perception of underhand dealings.\n\nIn addition, political groups or individuals failing to register with the Commission would only be able to describe themselves as \"Independent\" on ballot papers, or else have a blank space instead of a description after their names—with the single exception of the Speaker of the House of Commons who is entitled to be described as: \"The Speaker seeking re-election\".\n\nThis built on the provisions of the Registration of Political Parties Act 1998, passed amid concern about voters being fooled by misleading ballot descriptions.\n\nThere is an annual fee for the registration of a political party.\n\nUnder the terms of the law, registered political parties are only allowed to accept donations in excess of £500 from \"permissible donors\", defined as either individuals on an electoral register in the United Kingdom, or political parties, companies, trade unions, or similar organisations that are registered in the country.\n\nThe provision of non-financial support to a registered party – such as subsidies or free materials – is counted as a donation. Each party is required to submit details of all donations received, whether by party headquarters or their subsidiary parts. Each report must provide sufficient information to show that a donor counts as a \"permissible source\".\n\nPolitical parties on the separate register for Northern Ireland are exempt from the controls on accepting and reporting donations.\n\nThe Act places strict limits on the amount each party may spend in the run-up to the election (how that time period is defined depends on the type of election). The current limit for elections to the UK Parliament in Westminster stands at £30,000 per constituency contested within 365 days of a General Election, up to a maximum of £18.84 million.\n\nThe Act provides a basic framework to the running of all future referendums that are to be held under the jurisdiction of the Electoral Commission in pursuance of any provision made by a subsequent Act of Parliament in the following areas:\n\n\nThe Act also makes the provision that in any future UK-wide referendum the chairperson of the Electroal Commission is appointed “Chief Counting Officer” for the United Kingdom or gives the power for the chairperson to appoint a Chief Counting Officer.\n\nIn December 2006 Prime Minister Tony Blair and politicians of other parties were questioned by police as part of their investigation into the Cash for Honours affair. Part of their time was said to be spent looking at whether the Act had been breached by parties taking loans from supporters in return for nominations to the House of Lords. Unlike donations, loans did not have to be made public as long as they were made on \"commercial terms\".\n\nThe Government later changed the law to require the declaration of all forms of loan, and asked a former Clerk of the Crown in Chancery, Sir Hayden Phillips, to undertake a fundamental review of party funding arrangements. He reported in 2008.\n\nIn November 2007 the provisions of the Act were again the subject of scrutiny in the cases of Labour party donor David Abrahams and Scottish Labour leader Wendy Alexander.\n\nIn 2016, several UK police forces started investigations into alligations of election fraud, in the 2015 general election, specifically on the Conservatives breaching the spend limits permitted. The majority of alligations focus on the mis-representation of the \"battle-bus\" finances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57820809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57820809", "title": "Presidency of Andrés Manuel López Obrador", "text": "Presidency of Andrés Manuel López Obrador\n\nThe presidency of Andrés Manuel López Obrador began on 1 December 2018, when he became the 65th President of Mexico. Andrés Manuel López Obrador overcame Ricardo Anaya, José Antonio Meade, and Jaime Rodriguez Calderon in a landslide election on 1 July 2018. His election was the first since 1988 that a president-elect's political party has also won the outright majority in both the Senate and Chamber of Deputies. He is the oldest man to become President of Mexico at inauguration at age of 65.\n\nLópez Obrador participated in the 2006 and 2012 elections, losing to Felipe Calderon (by a 1% margin) and Enrique Peña Nieto, respectively. After the loss in 2012, he left the Party of the Democratic Revolution to found the National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) which would later become into a political party in 2014.\n\nLópez Obrador's political party MORENA would form the coalition \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" with left-wing Labor Party and socially conservative right-wing Social Encounter Party – attracting controversy with the latter. He would go on to face Ricardo Anaya, José Antonio Meade, and Jaime Rodriguez Calderon. On 1 July 2018, López Obrador won in a landslide defeat against all other candidates, managing to secure 53% of the popular vote against Anaya's 22%, Meade's 16%, and Rodriguez Calderon's 5%.\n\nIn the Congressional elections, the coalition managed to win the majority of seats in both the Senate and Chamber of Deputies. The coalition also managed to win 5 governorships, among them Mexico City's.\n\nFollowing López Obrador's victory, he would go on to meet current President Enrique Peña Nieto at the National Palace. At the meeting he said that he would not travel with armed people in a break with what the Mexican presidency usually does.\n\nLópez Obrador's victory was met by various reactions around the world.\n\nAt the helm of López Obrador's campaign team was Tatiana Clouthier, Alfonso Romo, and Yeidckol Polevnsky Gurwitz. The regional coordinators throughout the nation were Marcelo Ebrard, Bertha Luján (), Ricardo Monreal, Julio Scherer Ibarra, and Rabindranath Salazar Solorio.\n\nMost of the people in López Obrador's campaign team joined his transition team in order to prepare for the inauguration and the subsequent 6-year presidential term that will last from 1 December 2018 to 30 September 2024.\n\nIn December 2017, López Obrador released his cabinet listing, composed of 8 men and 8 women. He proposed dispersing the cabinet throughout the country's states, with the objective of “promoting development throughout the national territory,” while the Presidency, the Secretariat of National Defense, Secretariat of the Navy, the Secretariat of the Interior, Secretariat of Foreign Affairs, and the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit remain in the capital.\n\nIn December 2017, he presented his proposed cabinet:\n\n\nReplacements\n\nHéctor Vasconcelos was replaced by Marcelo Ebrard on 5 July 2018.\n\nHe declared that he will take a 60% salary pay cut.\n\nFrom 22 October to 25 October, he held a nationwide referendum on whether or not the New International Airport for Mexico City was to be scrapped, citing that the project was rife with graft and a waste of taxpayer money. About 70% of the results voted against the continuation of the project. López Obrador insists on expanding the Santa Lucía Air Force Base instead.\n\n"}
{"id": "10034647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10034647", "title": "Projekt-26", "text": "Projekt-26\n\nProjekt-26, best known as P-26, was a stay-behind army in Switzerland charged with countering a possible invasion of the country. The existence of P-26 (along with P-27) as secret intelligence agencies dissimulated in the military intelligence agency (UNA) was revealed in November 1990 by the PUK EMD Parliamentary Commission headed by senator Carlo Schmid. The commission, whose initial aim was to investigate the alleged presence of secret files on citizens constituted in the Swiss Ministry of Defence, was created in March 1990 in the wake of the \"Fichenaffäre\" or Secret Files Scandal, during which it had been discovered that the federal police, BUPO, had maintained files on 900,000 persons (out of a population of 7 million).\n\nSince the existence of P-26 was revealed a month after similar revelations made in Italy by the premier Giulio Andreotti, who disclosed to the Italian Parliament the existence, throughout the Cold War, of a Gladio stay-behind anti-communist paramilitary network headed by NATO and present in most European countries, Switzerland formed a parliamentary commission charged of investigating alleged links between P-26 and similar stay-behind organizations. It was one of the three countries, along with Belgium and Italy, to create a parliamentary commission on these stay-behind armies.\n\nOn November 21, 1990 Swiss authorities declared the dissolving of P-26, since the clandestine organization operated outside of parliamentary and even governmental control, being an autonomous structure hidden inside the secret military services.\n\nAs the United Kingdom, which had prepared itself for a Nazi invasion during World War II, which led to the creation of the Home Guard and of stay-behind Auxiliary Units, Switzerland also prepared for such an eventuality, as its neutrality by itself did not constitute a sufficient guarantee against a military offensive of Nazi Germany or Fascist Italy (see 1940 Battle of Belgium). Thus, General Henri Guisan put in place the \"Reduit Concept,\" according to which the best strategy for the military was to retreat in the highest parts of the Alps and abandon the plains to the enemy. From there, a guerrilla warfare would be launched against the invader.\n\nWith the end of World War II and the official beginning of the Cold War, plans were made to prepare for an invasion by the Soviet Union. The PUK EMD Commission headed by Carlo Schmid discovered that a first stay-behind branch was created within the Swiss army in the \"Territorialdienst\" (Territorial Service). This military branch was considered best suited for this mission, as it was not trained to fight in the front but to carry out domestic police operations among the civilian population. However, the PUK EMD Commission was confronted by the destruction of many documents pertaining to these early stay-behind organisations:\n\nThe historical record is fragmentary, because almost all documents of the resistance organization of the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s were destroyed around 1980.\n\nThe first commander of this secret unit was Divisionär Franz Wey (1896–1963), who was succeeded by Burger, Amstutz and de Pury. The latter was promoted to Brigadier-General and Chief of the Territorial Service.\n\nIn December 1956, following the Suez Crisis and the crushing of the Budapest insurrection, Erwin Jaeckle asked in Parliament what \"preparations can be taken in the fields of organisation and training in order to take up and secure total popular resistance, if necessary also outside the framework of the army.\" A year later, in September 1957, Defence Minister Paul Chaudet, successor to Karl Kobelt (both members of the liberal FDP), replied that \"The events in Hungary — seen from a military perspective only — have shown that the battle of a resistance movement alone can not be successful.\" He added that \"This battle poses problems of a political and military nature, as well as juridical concerns in the context of international law and the conventions that we have signed.\" Finally, Claudet declared that \"Although certain measures have been envisaged by the Territorial Service in this area, the possibilities in this field are limited.\"\n\nSwiss Major Hans von Dach published in 1958 \"Der totale Widerstand, Kleinkriegsanleitung für jedermann\" (\"Total Resistance,\" Bienne, 1958) concerning guerrilla warfare, a book of 180 pages about passive and active resistance to a foreign invasion, including detailed instructions on sabotage, clandestinity, methods to dissimulate weapons, struggle against police moles, etc.\n\nA former, unnamed, Chief of Staff, declared in 1990 to the Swiss deputies that senior officers of the Swiss military, then led by Chief of Staff Louis de Montmollion, had taken Jaeckle's declined request as the legal basis for the organization of the stay-behind\n\nThe stay-behind army was moved in 1967 from the Territorial Service to the UNA, the military intelligence agency, directed by Divisionär Richard Ochsner.<br>\nIt changed its codename to \"Special Service,\" which was made up of three hierarchical levels:\nAccording to the PUK EMD Commission:\n\nThe persons recruited by the trusted men could themselves recruit a number of new members to join the resistance organisation; therefore, the exact number of members of the organisation is not known ... They are said to have been 1.000 at maximum, divided among 30 to 50 centres.\n\nIn 1973, the Swiss Federal Council formulated the national security strategy of the country, which included the need for resistance in occupied territory. It reported that\n\nThe occupation of the country must not mean that all resistance has ended. Even in this case, an enemy shall meet not only with aversion, but also active resistance.\n\nIt also highlighted that:\n\nGuerrilla war and non-violent resistance in occupied areas are being prepared within the limits of international law, and will, if necessary, be carried out. \n\nIn a similar manner, the introduction of \"Der Totale Widerstand\" (Total Resistance) by Hans von Dach (1958) stated that \"of course,\" the guerrilla methods (which involved various covert actions) were to respect the Hague Conventions on Laws and Customs of War on Land (1899) as well as the four Geneva Conventions of 1949.\n\nAt the time, Colonel Heinrich Amstutz commanded the stay-behind. He was replaced in 1976 by Colonel Albert Bachmann. The next year, Hans Senn became Chief of Staff of the Swiss armed forces, and reported on 5 September 1979 to the united seven Swiss Federal councilors on the activities of UNA and of the stay-behind units. He informed them that the stay-behind cost one million Swiss Francs a year, which were secretly invested. The councilors listened in silence, and their absence of objection was interpreted by Hans Senn as an implicit approval of the operation, in which they conserved the possibility of plausible denial.\n\nThe UNA was discovered in the midst of the Bachmann-Schilling affair in November 1979, when Special Service commander Albert Bachmann sent UNA agent Kurt Schilling to Austria to observe military manoeuvres. There, he was arrested and sentenced for espionage by Austrian authorities, before being sent back to Switzerland, and sentenced again for having revealed classified information. A parliamentary commission was formed to investigate UNA, and reported in 1981:\n\nAccording to the security policy of the federation, the Special Service has the task of creating favourable conditions for active resistance in Switzerland against an occupying force.\n\nThe report concluded that the task was legitimate, although \"the internal control of these two services was insufficient.\"\n\nFollowing this event, which led to the resignation of Colonel Bachmann, the stay-behind was recreated, under the code-name P-26. Defence Minister Georges-André Chevallaz gave his approval to Chief of Staff Hans Senn and UNA director Richard Ochsner. Bachmann was replaced by Colonel Efrem Cattelan, who headed the paramilitary organization starting in October 1979. The code-name alluded to paragraph 426 of the Security and Defence concept of the Federal Council of 27 June 1973, which stated the needs of \"active resistance.\" (\"See above\").\n\nDuring the investigations concerning the secret files scandal and P-26, Herbert Alboth, a former member of staff of the Spezialdienst (special service) until 1976, was assassinated on April 18, 1990, in his flat in Liebefeld near Bern. A short time before, he had written to the MP Kaspar Villiger, on March 1, proposing to reveal all that he knew on the stay-behind. The press reported that Alboth had been \"killed with his own military bayonet\" with \"several stabs to the stomach,\" while \"on the chest of the victim the medical examiners have found a set of characters which were written in felt pen and puzzle the investigators.\" His death was never resolved, while the Swiss deputies discovered in his flat pictures of senior P-26 members, old documents on training and courses, exercise plans of a conspiratorial character and address list of former members of the \"Special Service.\"\n\nFollowing the November 1990 report by the Parliamentary Commission, the Swiss Socialist Party and the Greens requested further investigations concerning alleged ties between P-26 and other Gladio stay-behind organizations. Judge Pierre Cornu was charged with the investigation, and delivered a 100-page report known as the \"Cornu Report.\" He met Italian and Belgian MPs, as well as P-26 members, but London declined to comment (the existence of MI6 was still un-confirmed by Britain).\n\nThe Cornu Report stated that P-26 was without \"\"political or legal legitimacy\", and described the group's collaboration with British secret services as \"intense\":\n\nUnknown to the Swiss government, British officials signed agreements with the organisation, called P26, to provide training in combat, communications, and sabotage. The latest agreement was signed in 1987… P26 cadres participated regularly in training exercises in Britain… British advisers — possibly from the SAS — visited secret training establishments in Switzerland.\n\nAccording to the account of the report from Richard Norton-Taylor, from \"The Guardian\", \"The activities of P-26, its codes, and the name of the leader of the group, Efrem Cattelan, were known to British intelligence, but the Swiss government was kept in the dark.\"\n\nDespite a parliamentary motion deposed by MP Josef Lang, which requested the full, non-censored, publication of the Cornu Report, large sections of the latter remained classified and will remain so for the next thirty years. Since Gladio stay-behind organizations were coordinated by secret organizations of SHAPE and ultimately responded to SACEUR, head of NATO in Europe, any relationship between P-26 and SACEUR would be an obvious breach of Swiss neutrality. Thus, the matter remains controversial and confidential. A 17-page summary, titled \"P-26 not part of an international network,\" was published on 19 September 1991.\n\nConfronted by a question from Socialist deputy Paul Rechsteiner on 30 September 1991, concerning the non-publication of the Cornu Report, Defence Minister Kaspar Villiger declared that:\n\nThe Cornu Report contains numerous pieces of information on foreign secret services and resistance organisations, as well as their structures, hierarchies, and connections ... The Cornu Report will not be released and published because it is not the business of the Federal Council to reveal the secret affairs of foreign states.\n\nTo that, Socialist MP Susanne Leutenegger-Oberholzer replied: \"is the Council not of the opinion that it is deplorable if foreign secret services receive more information than, for instance, Swiss parliamentarians?\"\n\nHowever, according to an ETH university study by Daniele Ganser, \"P26 was not directly involved in the network of NATO's secret armies but it had close contact to MI6,\" the British secret service which worked closely with the Central Intelligence Agency during the Cold War and trained Gladio paramilitaries in Italy.\n\nWhile responding to a question in Parliament concerning the assassination of Herbert Alboth (related to the discovery of P-26), National counsellor Remo Gysin has described the relations between the Swiss stay-behind, MI6 and NATO as \"notorious\".\n\nLike other stay-behind organizations in Europe, P-26 had weapons caches in Switzerland, while some of its members took paramilitary and guerrilla warfare training courses with the MI6 in Great Britain. Foreign instructors also followed courses in Switzerland with P-26.\n\nSwiss military instructor Alois Hürlimann revealed that he had taken part in secret military training in England, which he said included a real assault on an Irish Republican Army (IRA) arms depot, in which at least one IRA terrorist was killed.\n\nIn 1976, Colonel Bachmann, head of the Special Service, allegedly reached a mutual cooperation agreement with the British SAS.\n\nBritish Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery, Deputy Supreme Commander of NATO forces in Europe from 1951 to 1958, was in the Bernese Oberland each February from 1946 to 1962, for military affairs. He met in 1946 Swiss Defence Minister Karl Kobelt, Foreign Minister Max Petitpierre and Chief of Staff Louis de Montmollin to discuss Swiss neutrality and strategy in the post-war period. According to researches by Swiss historian Mauro Mantovani, Montgomery met again Montmollin in February 1952 to discuss plans in case of a Soviet invasion. They agreed that in case of an emergency, Switzerland would need help from NATO, leading Mantovani to conclude that:\n\nSwitzerland during the Cold War was so obviously part of the western camp that western leaders could only wish that all neutrals would take Switzerland as an example.\n\nItalian magistrate Felice Casson, who first discovered Gladio in Italy, declared: \"I am sure that I also saw documents on Gladio contacts with Switzerland\" in the \"Palazzo Braschi\" in Rome, headquarters of the SISMI military intelligence agency.\n\nFurthermore, P-26 used Harpoon radios, a powerful encrypted communication system, which was used by the Belgian stay-behind network as discovered by the Belgian Parliamentary Commission. The Harpoon system, bought by NATO from the German firm AEG Telefunken in the beginning of the 1980s, permitted stay-behind members to send encrypted radio messages across 6.000 km, thus enabling them to maintain relations between themselves. This system is not compatible with the standard communication system used by the Swiss army. However, magistrate Pierre Cornu found that in 1987, P-26 had connected foreign stations of the Harpoon system for around 15 million Swiss francs. Historian Daniele Ganser observed that:\n\nThe purchase of the Harpoon equipment linked to NATO command centres in Brussels, the CIA in the US, and MI6 in Great Britain realised the integration of the Swiss stay-behind in the European stay-behind network at a very basic, hardware level.\n\nOn 13 March 1991, Socialist MP Esther Bührer asked in a parliamentary request to the Federal Council if members of P-26 had been involved in the \"Kaiseraugst\" sabotage operations, which had occurred in 1975 during anti-nuclear protests against the establishment of a nuclear plant in Kaiseraugst, near Basel. Between 1974 and 1984, more than 30 sabotage operations had been carried out there, and investigations were abandoned without results, although they pointed that they had been \"professional\" operations. Defence Minister Kaspar Villiger denied any involvement. The left-wing weekly \"WOZ Die Wochenzeitung\" also declared the request unlikely, as some violent anti-nuclear protesters had allegedly taken credit for the sabotage operations.\n\nFormer MP Helmut Hubacher, president of the Social Democratic Party of Switzerland from 1975 to 1990, declared that the existence of P-26 was more disturbing than what professional soldiers alleged it was, since it was not only to counter a possible Soviet invasion, but also had a mandate to become active should the left win the elections and gain parliamentary majority.\n\nBeside P-26, the military intelligence agency also dissimulated P-27, charged with domestic surveillance. According to Richard Norton-Taylor from \"The Guardian\":\n\nP26 was backed by P27, a private foreign intelligence agency funded partly by the government, and by a special unit of Swiss army intelligence which had built up files on nearly 8,000 \"suspect persons\" including \"leftists\", \"bill stickers\", \"Jehovah's witnesses\", people with \"abnormal tendencies\" and anti-nuclear demonstrators. \n\nOn November 14, the Swiss government hurriedly dissolved P26 — the head of which, it emerged, had been paid £100,000 a year. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38610213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38610213", "title": "Reassurance policing", "text": "Reassurance policing\n\nReassurance policing is a model of policing that centers on signal crimes. Developed in the United Kingdom, reassurance policing aims to identify \"signals\", and involve the community in solving community-related problems (similar to the community policing model).\n\n"}
{"id": "21174207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21174207", "title": "Réseau de Résistance du Québécois", "text": "Réseau de Résistance du Québécois\n\nThe Réseau de Résistance du Québécois (RRQ) () is a small fringe Quebec nationalist group founded in 2007 that advocates Quebec sovereignty. In 2008, the RRQ claimed a membership of 500 people. The RRQ have released a manifesto, called \"Manifeste du Réseau de Résistance du Québécois (RRQ)\".\n\nIn January 2008, the RRQ accused the organizers of Quebec City’s 400th anniversary celebrations of being revisionists.\n\nOn March 17, 2008, the RRQ marched at the St. Patrick’s Day parade in Montreal. Members of the RRQ waved Quebec, Patriote and Irish flags. The RRQ also planned to distribute leaflets commemorating links between Irish Canadians and Quebecers, including the involvement of Irish immigrants in the Patriote movement of 1837 in Lower Canada, as Quebec was known at the time. However, both the Mouvement Québec français and the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society of Montreal, two larger Québec nationalist groups, distanced themselves from the RRQ's march.\n\nIn January 2009, the RRQ campaigned against the combat reenactment of the Battle of the Plains of Abraham. Montreal Gazette's Quebec affairs columnist Don Macpherson wrote that the RRQ used propaganda of the deed combined with threats of violence and that played a major role in the cancellation of the reenactment. A spokesperson for the group, retired Quebec filmmaker Pierre Falardeau stated that if the reenactment took place, \"some people will get their asses kicked\". The RRQ said that for visiting spectators the reenactment would offer \"a trip they won't soon forget\". Patrick Bourgeois, of the RRQ stated, \"The re-enactment is off, that's great. This thing unleashed passions. But ultimately, the responsibility for all of this is the people who concocted this dim-witted plan. Sure, we were promoting civil disobedience. But so were they. The potential for violence was there.”\n\nOn June 23, 2009, Lake of Stew, an anglophone music group playing at the L'Autre St. Jean concert for the St. Jean Baptiste festivities at Pelican Park in Rosemont, Quebec, was heckled by members of the RRQ, but the heckling was met mostly with disdain by those in the audience and the band played on to cheers. Guillaume Duchesneau, a member of the RRQ, stated, \"I don't think there should be two anglophone bands here. It's the patriotic celebration of Quebec started by a Quebec patriot, Ludger Duvernay in 1834, and it's like an oppression seeing groups sing here in English.\" He said he noted a virtual absence of any Quebec flags, and said he wondered if a federalist group was organizing the party.\n\nOn September 13, 2009, events were held in Quebec to commemorate the anniversary of the Battle of the Plains of Abraham. The RRQ attended the 24-hour reading marathon, called the Moulin à paroles, presenting 140 texts from Quebec artists and historical figures. One reading was the FLQ Manifesto written by the paramilitary organization called the Front de libération du Québec (FLQ). Quebec Premier Jean Charest stated that the reading \"trivializes the FLQ, terrorism and violence\" ().\n\nOn November 10, 2009, the RRQ blocked the entrance to the Black Watch military armory on Bleury Street in Montreal during a visit from Prince Charles. The crowd of RRQ supporters demonstrated their opposition to the Canadian monarchy.\n\n"}
{"id": "25221951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25221951", "title": "Sagar Prahari Bal", "text": "Sagar Prahari Bal\n\nThe Sagar Prahari Bal (SPB) meaning Ocean Sentinels, is a unit of the Indian Navy, formed in March 2009, which is entrusted with the responsibility of patrolling India's coastal waters. The force consists of 2,000 personnel and is equipped with 80 patrol boats. The force was constituted after the Mumbai terror attacks and the main duty of the force is to guard against such terrorist attacks by patrolling the coastline and also to conduct search and rescue operations. The soldiers are trained at INS Shivaji, a naval training and engineering base, near Lonavla.\n\nThe SPB maintains security at all major and minor ports in India and carries out round the clock patrolling and is also part of search and rescue operations in times of emergency.\n\nThe arms and ammunition used by the Sagar Prahari Bal is manufactured by the Indian Ordnance Factories functioning under the Ministry of Defence.\n\n"}
{"id": "22717574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22717574", "title": "Society for Promoting Igbo Language and Culture", "text": "Society for Promoting Igbo Language and Culture\n\nThe Society for Promoting Igbo Language and Culture (SPILC) was founded in 1949 by Frederick Chidozie Ogbalu for the promotion of the Igbo language and culture, and has since created a standard dialect for Igbo.\n"}
{"id": "16956820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16956820", "title": "Special Groups (Iraq)", "text": "Special Groups (Iraq)\n\nSpecial Groups (SGs) is a designation given by the American military to the cell-based Shi'a paramilitary organizations operating within Iraq, backed by Iran. According to the Americans these groups are funded, trained, and armed by the Iranian Quds Force, part of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.\n\nAccording to American General Kevin J. Bergner, the Special Groups receive between 750,000 and 3,000,000 dollars funding per month from the Quds Force. These groups are separate from but allied with the Mahdi Army of Muqtada al-Sadr. The distinction between these groups and the Mahdi Army became more clear when al-Sadr called for a ceasefire at the end of August 2007 following Mahdi Army clashes with Iraqi Security Forces in Karbala but the Special Groups continued fighting. After the Mahdi Army's disbandment in 2008, the Promised Day Brigades emerged as its successor; however, the largest special group to emerge after the Iraq spring fighting of 2008 was Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq (also known as the Qazali Network). According to the Guardian newspaper in March 2014, Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq is controlled by Iran under Quds Force General Qasem Soleimani. Another large special group is Kata'ib Hezbollah (or Hezbollah Brigades) which started to operate independently from the Mahdi Army and the other Special Groups. Suspected leaders include Qais al-Khazali, Laith al-Khazali, Ali al-Lami, Azhar al Dulaimi, Akram al-Kabi, Abu Mustafa al-Sheibani, Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis and Abu Deraa.\n\nEver since the Islamic Revolution, Iran has sought to back Shia Islamist paramilitary organizations across the Middle East. Many have been very close to the Iranian state, particularly the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, like the Movement of Vanguard Missionaries and the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI). During the Iran–Iraq War many of these groups fought for Iran, with SCIRI's Badr Brigade being led by Iranian officers. After the US overthrow of Saddam Hussein, these Iranian-led militia men returned to Iraq where they retained their autonomy and Iran continued to support Shia Islamist paramilitaries.\n\nIn February 2010, Asaib Ahl al-Haq kidnapped U.S. contractor Issa T. Salomi, a naturalized American from Iraq. They released a video of him where he read their demands, calling for the release of all the group's members, including several of the group's leaders who are currently imprisoned. Iran is supporting three Shiite extremist groups in Iraq that have been attempting to attack American bases, General Ray Odierno, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, said on July 21, 2010. The Iranians have \"gone to a more sophisticated program with a smaller set of extremists\" and are now focusing on three groups, which he identified as Kataib Hezbollah, Asaib Ahl al-Haq (League of the Righteous), and the Promised Day Brigade.\n\nAs of 2011, according to American officials, the Promised Day Brigades is the largest, with over 5,000 fighters, and pose the biggest long-term security threat to Iraq. Kata'ib Hezbollah is said to have around 1,000 fighters and is the most exclusively reliant on Iranian support. Asa'ib al-Haq is said to have less than 1,000 fighters as of 2011 and receives a reported 5 million per month in Iranian funding. The Promised Day Brigades is said to receive the least amount of Iranian funding and is the most independent of the three.\n\nSince the beginning of the Iraqi war against ISIS, the Special Groups have joined the Popular Mobilization Forces to fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.\n\n"}
{"id": "22625798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22625798", "title": "Territorial evolution of the Caribbean", "text": "Territorial evolution of the Caribbean\n\nThis is a timeline of the territorial evolution of the Caribbean and nearby areas of North, Central, and South America, listing each change to the internal and external borders of the various countries that make up the region.\n\nThe region covered is the Caribbean, its islands (most of which enclose the sea), and the surrounding coasts, as well as the southern part of the Gulf of Mexico, Florida, Central America, and the northern region of South America.\n\nThe political evolution of the land surrounding the Caribbean reveals the significant role the region played in the colonial struggles of the European powers since Christopher Columbus arrived in 1492. In the 20th century the Caribbean was again important during World War II, in the decolonization wave in the post-war period, and in the tension between Communist Cuba and the United States (U.S.). Genocide, slavery, immigration and rivalry between world powers have given Caribbean history an impact disproportionate to the size of this small region.\n\nAt the time of the European discovery of most of the islands of the Caribbean, three major Amerindian indigenous peoples lived on the islands: the Taíno in the Greater Antilles, The Bahamas and the Leeward Islands; the Island Caribs and Galibi in the Windward Islands; and the Ciboney in western Cuba. The Taínos are subdivided into Classic Taínos, who occupied Hispaniola and Puerto Rico, Western Taínos, who occupied Cuba, Jamaica, and the Bahamian archipelago, and the Eastern Taínos, who occupied the Leeward Islands. Trinidad was inhabited by both Carib speaking and Arawak-speaking groups.\n\nIn 1700 Spain ruled what is now North America, Central America, South America and the major islands of the Caribbean. Other players were the:\n\nwho controlled:\n\nThe Dutch Republic controlled:\n\nAt the year 1700 Louis XIV ruled as King of France and of Navarre. In the new world he controlled:\n\n\nDenmark controlled what is now the:\n\n\nEnglish forces annex the whole of the island of St. Kitts.\n\nOn St. Kitts the French made one more major attack on British troops in 1706 during the War of the Spanish Succession taking the whole of the island.\n\nSpanish and French forces seized the Turks in 1706.\n\nSpanish and French forces seized the Turks in 1706, but English Bermudian forces expelled them four years later in what was probably Bermuda's only independent military operation.\n\nThe French held St. Kitts for 8 years (1713) until the Treaty of Utrecht was signed. The treaty ceded the entire island of St. Kitts to the British.\n\nSaint Lucia becomes Neutral territory (agreed by Britain and France in the Treaty of Choc Island)\n\nDenmark purchases the island of Saint Croix from France in 1733 it is in what now is the \n\nSaint Lucia becomes French colony (Sainte Lucie).\n\n\n\nIn Guadeloupe from 1759 through 1763, as a part of the Seven Years' War, the British took control of the island and the main city Pointe-à-Pitre was established during these years.\n\nOn June 7, 1761 a British expedition against Dominica led by Lord Rollo was successful and the island was conquered.\n\nBritain captured Martinique and Grenada during the Seven Years' War, holding it from 1762 to 1763. becomes British.\nThe Treaty of Paris, often called the Peace of Paris, or the Treaty of 1763, was signed on February 10, 1763, by the kingdoms of Great Britain, France and Spain, with Portugal in agreement. It ended the Seven Years' War. In the treaty:\n\n\nSaint Vincent restored to French rule in 1779.\n\n\nThe Treaty of Paris, signed on September 3, 1783, ratified by the Congress of the Confederation on January 14, 1784 and by the King of Great Britain on April 9, 1784 (the ratification documents were exchanged in Paris on May 12, 1784), formally ended the American Revolutionary War between the Kingdom of Great Britain and the United States of America, which had rebelled against British rule starting in 1775. The other combatant nations, France, Spain and the Dutch Republic had separate agreements; for details of these see Peace of Paris (1783).\n\nIn the agreements:\n\nSaint Barthélemy was sold to Sweden on July 1, 1784.\n\nAfter the emancipation decrees of Léger-Félicité Sonthonax and Étienne Polverel during the Haitian Revolution, the French National Convention declared the end of slavery in all French territories in February 1794, and named Victor Hugues civil commissioner to Guadeloupe. French plantation owners and other Royalists had called in the United Kingdom as a way of rejecting the freedom of slaves on the French colonies:\n\nFrance came to own the whole island of Hispaniola in 1795, when in the Treaty of Basel Spain ceded Santo Domingo as a consequence of the Spain fighting against France in the French Revolutionary Wars.\n\nEffective British control of Guyana began in 1796 during the French Revolutionary Wars, at which time the Netherlands were under French occupation and Great Britain and France were at war. A British expeditionary force was dispatched from its colony of Barbados to seize the colonies from the French-dominated Batavian Republic. The colonies surrendered without a struggle, and initially very little changed, as the British agreed to allow the long-established laws of the colonies to remain in force.\n\nBritain occupied Aruba from 1799 to 1802.\n\nThe Treaty of Amiens is signed which ends the hostilities between France and the United Kingdom during the French Revolutionary Wars. It was signed on 25 March 1802 (Germinal 4, year X in the French Revolutionary Calendar) by Joseph Bonaparte and the Marquess Cornwallis as a \"Definitive Treaty of Peace\". As part of the treaty:\n\n\nGuyana is retaken by the British.\n\nIn Haiti The native leader Jean-Jacques Dessalines, long an ally of Toussaint Louverture, defeated the French troops led by Donatien-Marie-Joseph de Vimeur, vicomte de Rochambeau at the Battle of Vertières. At the end of the double battle for emancipation and independence, former slaves proclaimed the independence of Saint-Domingue on 1 January 1804, declaring the new nation as Haiti, honoring one of the indigenous Taíno names for the island. Haiti was consequently the first country in the Western Hemisphere to abolish slavery. Dessalines was proclaimed Emperor for life by his troops.\n\nBritain occupied Aruba from 1805.\n\nIn 1808, following Napoleon's invasion of Spain, the \"criollos\" of Santo Domingo revolted against French rule and, with the aid of Great Britain (Spain's ally) and Haiti, returned Santo Domingo to Spanish control.\n\nIn Martinique the surrender of Fort Desaix to British forces solidified their occupation of the island of Martinique. The remaining shipping and military supplies were seized and the regular soldiers of the garrison taken as prisoners of war. The militia were disbanded and Martinique became a British colony, remaining under British command until the restoration of the French monarchy in 1814, when it was returned to French control.\n\nOn February 4, 1810 the British once again seized Guadeloupe.\n\nOn July 5, 1811 Venezuela declared independence from Spain.\n\nOn November 11, 1811 the province of Cartagena declared independence from Spain. The United Provinces of New Granada was established a few days later on November 27, with Cartagena joining it.\n\nThe Treaty of Paris of May 30, 1814, ceded Tobago and, Martinique once more to France.\n\n\n\nThe Colombian rebellion finally succeeded in 1819 when the territory of the Viceroyalty of New Granada and the Captaincy General of Venezuela became the Republic of Gran Colombia organized as a federation of Ecuador, today's Colombia and Venezuela (Panama was part of Colombia). The official name of the country at the time was the Republic of Colombia. Historians adopted the term \"Gran Colombia\" to distinguish this republic from the present-day Republic of Colombia, which began using the same name in 1863.\n\n\n\nSpanish Haiti's independence was short-lived, as Haitian forces, led by Jean Pierre Boyer, invaded and took control of the country just nine weeks later in February 1822.\n\nAfter a brief time as part of the Mexican Empire of Agustín de Iturbide \nbecame a state in the Federal Republic of Central America on July 1, 1823.\n\n\nNicaragua separated from the Federal Republic of Central America on November 5, 1838.\nOn May 30, 1838, the Central American Congress struck down Francisco Morazán's control over the Federal Republic of Central America. The Congress then declared that the individual states could establish their own governments, and on July 7, 1838 recognized these as \"sovereign, free, and independent political bodies.\"\n\n\n\nThe union was only officially ended upon El Salvador's self-proclamation of the establishment of an independent republic in February 1841.\n\nOn September 11, 1842, Mexican President Antonio López de Santa Anna proclaimed the \"irrevocable union\" of Soconusco with Chiapas. The issue between Mexico and Guatemala was not resolved until a boundary treaty was signed on September 27, 1882, when Guatemala gave up its claims to Soconusco and Chiapas.\n\nIn 1838 Juan Pablo Duarte founded a secret society called La Trinitaria, which sought the complete independence of Santo Domingo without any foreign intervention. Ramón Matías Mella and Francisco del Rosario Sánchez (the latter of partly African ancestry), despite not being among the founding members of La Trinitaria, were decisive in the fight for independence. Duarte and they are the three Founding Fathers of the Dominican Republic. On February 27, 1844, the \"Trinitarios\" (Trinitarians), declared the independence from Haiti. They were backed by Pedro Santana, a wealthy cattle rancher from El Seibo, who became general of the army of the nascent Republic. The Dominican Republic's first Constitution was adopted on November 6, 1844, and was modeled after the United States Constitution.\n\nYucatán renounced the government, declaring independence effective 1 January 1846. When the Mexican–American War broke out, Yucatán declared its neutrality.\n\nAfter the end of the Mexican–American War, Governor Barbachano appealed to Mexican President José Joaquín de Herrera for help in suppressing a Mayan uprising, the Caste War of Yucatán, and in exchange Yucatán again recognized the central Mexican government's authority. Yucatán was again reunited with Mexico on 17 August 1848.\n\nOn 28 January 1860 Britain and Nicaragua concluded the Treaty of Managua, which transferred to Nicaragua the suzerainty over the entire Caribbean coast from Cabo Gracias a Dios to Greytown (now San Juan del Norte) but granted autonomy to the Miskito Indians in the more limited Mosquito Reserve (the area described above).\n\n\nAfter two years of fighting, the Spanish troops abandoned the Dominican nation. The Restoration was proclaimed on August 16, 1863.\n\nFlorida is brought under US control as the CSA falls. Historians generally regard the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia by General Lee at the village of Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865 as the end of the Confederate States. Unionists captured President Davis at Irwinville, Georgia, on May 10, and the remaining Confederate armies had surrendered by June 1865. The crew of the CSS \"Shenandoah\" hauled down the last Confederate flag at Liverpool in the UK on November 6, 1865.\n\nSaint Barthélemy was sold back to France by Sweden on Mar 16, 1878.\n\nTreaty of Paris (1898) was the result of the Spanish–American War which gave control of Cuba, Puerto Rico, Guam and the Philippines to the Americans.\n\nThe controversial treaty was the subject of debate in the United States Senate during the winter of 1898–1899, and it was approved on February 6, 1899 by a vote 57 to 27, only one vote more than the two-thirds majority required. Only 2 Republicans voted against ratification, George Frisbie Hoar of Massachusetts and Eugene Pryor Hale of Maine.\n\nAn international tribunal arbitrate the boundary in 1897. For two years, the tribunal consisting of two Britons, two Americans, and a Russian studied the case. Their three-to-two decision, handed down in 1899, awarded 94 percent of the disputed territory to British Guiana.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt, who had fought in the Spanish–American War and had some sympathies with the independence movement granted the Republic of Cuba formal independence on May 20, 1902, with the independence leader Tomás Estrada Palma becoming the country's first president. Under the new Cuban constitution, however, the U.S. retained the right to intervene in Cuban affairs and to supervise its finances and foreign relations. Under the Platt Amendment, Cuba also agreed to lease to the U.S. the naval base at Guantánamo Bay.\nThe Hay–Bunau-Varilla Treaty was signed on November 18, 1903 (two weeks after Panama's independence from Colombia on November 3, 1903). Philippe Bunau-Varilla went to Washington, D.C. and New York City to negotiate the terms with several U.S. officials, most prominently, Secretary of State John Hay. The two men negotiated the terms of sale for the building of a Panama Canal. No Panamanians signed the treaty although Bunau-Varilla was present as the diplomatic representative of Panama (a role he had purchased through financial assistance to the rebels), despite the fact he had not lived in Panama for seventeen years before the incident, and he never returned.\n\nCuba was placed under U.S. occupation and a U.S. governor, Charles Edward Magoon, after a rebellion led by José Miguel Gómez.\n\nElections were held in 1908 when José Miguel Gómez was elected President. Self-government for Cuba was restored in 1909.\n\nThe first United States occupation of Haiti began on July 28, 1915 and ended in mid-August, 1934.\n\nThe United States begins its occupation of the Dominican Republic from 1916 to July 1924. By November of the same year they proclaim a military government.\n\nOn March 31, 1917, the United States purchased Saint Croix, Saint John and Saint Thomas from Denmark for US$25 million, renaming them the United States Virgin Islands.\n\nThe United States ends its occupation of the Dominican Republic. Horacio Vásquez Lajara defeated Francisco J. Peynado and with his inauguration on July 13, 1924 America ends its control.\n\nOn August 15, 1934 the last American Marines leave Haiti which again becomes an independent nation.\n\nAruba became a British protectorate from 1940 to 1942.\n\nAruba became a USA protectorate from 1942 to 1945.\n\nAruba reverts back to Dutch control.\n\nThe West Indies Federation, also known as the Federation of the West Indies, was a short-lived Caribbean federation that existed from January 3, 1958 to May 31, 1962. It consisted of several Caribbean colonies including Turks and Caicos Islands, Jamaica, Cayman Islands, Antigua and Barbuda, Saint Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla, Montserrat, Dominica, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Grenada, Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nWith the dissolution of the West Indies Federation a number of countries decided to go alone and declare independence: \n\n\nAfter a period of political instability following the assassination of long-time Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo the American seize control of the Dominican Republic.\n\nBritish rule was fully restored to Anguilla in 1969.\n\nOn July 10, 1973, the Bahamas became fully independent from the UK, but retained membership in the Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nOn February 7, 1974 Grenada gains independence from the UK.\n\nOn November 3, 1978 Dominica became an independent nation from the UK.\n\n\n\nOn September 19, 1983 Saint Kitts and Nevis became an independent nation from the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "56303583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56303583", "title": "The Great Replacement conspiracy theory", "text": "The Great Replacement conspiracy theory\n\nThe great replacement () is a far-right conspiracy theory, which states that the white Catholic French population, and white Christian European population at large, is being systematically replaced with non-European people, specifically Middle Eastern, North and Sub-Saharan African populations, through mass migration and demographic growth. It associates the presence of Muslims in France with potential danger and destruction of French culture and civilization.\n\nThe conspiracy theory commonly apportions blame to a global and liberal elite, such as Brussels and the European Union, which is portrayed as directing a planned and deliberate plot or scheme to carry out the replacement of European peoples.\n\nThe theory has been popularized by Renaud Camus. This notion of replacement, or of white genocide, has echoed throughout the rhetoric of many anti-migrant far-right movements in the West. Among its main promoters are not only far-right populist parties but also a wide-ranging network of protest movements (e.g., Pegida), ideological groupuscules (e.g., bloc identitaire), bloggers (e.g., Fjordman), and noted intellectuals (e.g., Eric Zemmour). Prominent radical right-wing websites such as Gates of Vienna, Politically Incorrect, and France de Souche have provided a platform for bloggers to diffuse and popularize the conspiracy theory.\n\nThe theory of the great replacement can be traced back to the 1973 novel \"Le Camp des Saints\" by Jean Raspail which depicts the collapse of Western culture owing to an overwhelming \"tidal wave\" of Third World immigration. The novel, along with the theory of Eurabia developed by the Swiss-Israeli writer Bat Ye'or in 2005, set the ground then for Renaud Camus to develop and present his book entitled \"The Great Replacement\" in 2012. Credited as the \"progenitor of the Great Replacement doctrine\" by the SPLC, Camus has stated that \"the great replacement is very simple. You have one people, and in the space of a generation you have a different people\". Camus has argued that European culture, civilization and identity are in danger of being overrun by mass migration, especially Islamic, and hence physically replaced.\n\n"}
{"id": "1322202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1322202", "title": "Torna atrás", "text": "Torna atrás\n\nTorna atrás () or Tornatrás is a term once used in Spain and its former overseas colonies to describe a mixed race person (mestizo) that showed phenotypic characteristics of only one of the \"original races\", that is, white, black, Amerindian or Asian. The term was also used to describe an individual whose parentage was half white and half \"albino\".\nUnder the casta system of colonial Spanish America, the torna atrás (in English, similar in meaning to throwback, hark back to) could also make reference to the appearance of racial characteristics not present in the parents. Such as in the colored child of a white person and albino. The albino casta refers to the seemingly white offspring of a white and black-descended parent (afromestizo).\n\nIt was also used in the Philippines during the Spanish colonial era from the 16th to 19th century, to describe persons of mixed indigenous Austronesian (referred to as \"Indio\"), Chinese (referred to as \"Sangley\"), and Spanish ancestry (referred to as \"Filipinos\"/\"Insulares\" or \"Peninsulares\").\n\nIt is likely that a majority of Filipino people today would have been classified as \"Tornatrás\" under this system due to centuries of intermarriage among various foreign and indigenous ethnic groups throughout the islands.\n\nAlthough Tornatrás was originally used to describe a descendant of mestizos, albinos and Europeans, in the Philippines they were commonly known as those born from a Spanish father ('Filipino' or 'peninsular') and a Malay-Chinese (mestiza de sangley) mother.\n\nMost people of the Tornatrás caste in the Philippines used Spanish as their primary language and in many cases converted to the Catholic faith.\nThere are no official statistics on the number of people of Tornatrás ancestry around the world, although it is believed that most are to be found in South America and the Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "21760668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21760668", "title": "Treaty of Nymphaeum (1214)", "text": "Treaty of Nymphaeum (1214)\n\nThe Treaty of Nymphaeum () was a peace treaty signed in December 1214 between the Nicaean Empire, successor state of the Byzantine Empire, and the Latin Empire, which was established in the aftermath of the Fourth Crusade of 1204.\n\nFollowing the Fourth Crusade, Baldwin IX of Flanders was elected emperor of the Latin Empire and was recognized to have not only a portion of Constantinople (the remainder was given to the Venetians), but also the north-west region of Asia Minor, although recognition of sovereignty did not mean actual control of the territory. It was up to the emperor to exercise that control, by force of arms if necessary. Following the Fourth Crusade, Baldwin was occupied with events in Thrace and was later taken prisoner by the Bulgarians in the Battle of Adrianople in April 1205. Asia Minor was ignored by the Latins for the time being, thus giving a breathing space for Theodore Lascaris, who had declared himself emperor and was based at Nicaea, to consolidate his power and focus his attention on the Sultanate of Rûm during this time.\n\nBaldwin's brother, Henry, took over the Latin Empire and started operations against the Nicaean Empire at the end of 1206, but these were only minor engagements until Henry focused his attention in 1211. On October 15 of that year, Henry won a major victory at the Rhyndacus River and pushed forward onto Pergamum and Nymphaeum, but guerrilla warfare on Theodore's part limited Henry's further advances. Due to both sides being exhausted, the Treaty of Nymphaeum was signed between the two emperors, halting the Latin advance into Asia Minor. The Latin holdings were confined to the north-western part of Anatolia, comprising the coasts of Bithynia and most of Mysia.\n\nAlthough both sides would continue to fight for years to come, there were some important consequences of this peace agreement. First, the peace treaty effectively recognized both parties, as neither one was strong enough to destroy the other. The second consequence of the treaty was that David Komnenos, who had been a vassal of Henry and who had been carrying out his own war against Nicaea with the support of the Latin Empire, now effectively lost that support. Theodore was thus able to annex all of David's lands west of Sinope in late 1214, gaining access to the Black Sea. The third consequence was that Theodore was now free to wage war against the Seljuqs without the distraction of the Latins for the time being. Nicaea was able to consolidate their eastern frontier for the remainder of the century. Hostilities broke out again in 1224, and a crushing Nicaean victory at the Second Battle of Poemanenum reduced Latin territories in Asia effectively only to the Nicomedian peninsula. This treaty allowed the Nicaeans to go on the offensive in Europe years later, culminating in the reconquest of Constantinople in 1261.\n"}
{"id": "27669014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27669014", "title": "Whole of Government Accounts", "text": "Whole of Government Accounts\n\nWhole of Government Accounts (WGA) is the annual publication by the United Kingdom Government of the Consolidated financial statements of over 5,500 organisations across the public sector. It aims to provide more complete data for fiscal planning by producing consolidated financial statements which are produced in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the system of accounts used internationally by the private sector.\n\nThe accounts are independently audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General and get scrutinized by the Public Accounts Committee each year.\n\nThe Treasury first published a scoping study for WGA in July 1998. The first set of accounts to be published will be for the year ended 31 March 2010. WGA are prepared under Sections 9 to 11 of the Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000. WGA are prepared for the whole of the UK public sector (central government, local government, health, and public corporations). WGA are prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards.\n\nThe Structure of the document is the same as you'd get for any private sector organisation using IFRS.\nIn particular the following consolidated statements are included: \nIt also includes a Statement on Internal Control as well as detailing the Accounting Officer’s responsibilities and a Remuneration Report\n\nThe Whole of Governments Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010 was published on 29 November 2011. It was the first ever set of audited financial statements for the UK public sector. The 2009-10 WGA brings together, for the first time, audited financial information from the UK’s central government, local government, the National Health Service (NHS) and public corporations. It makes clear a number of metrics that previously had been difficult to calculate, such as the net public service pension liability, the Government’s commitments under private finance initiative (PFI) contracts, total provisions, and contingent liabilities.\n\nAs this is the first year in which WGA is published, there is no historical data for comparison. Over time, annual publications of WGA will allow the user to build up a clear and consistent picture of trends and changes in the Government’s fiscal position. WGA also allows for international comparisons of fiscal balance sheets to be made, provided that other countries’ accounts are produced on a comparable basis.\n\nThe accounts are available on the UK's Treasury website: http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/wga.\n\nThe Whole of Government Accounts are subject to audit by the Comptroller & Auditor General (C&AG).\n\nThe C&AG audited the 2009-10 WGA and concluded:\n\"In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraphs above:\n\n\nThe C&AG report on the 2009-10 WGA is available on the National Audit Office's website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3523938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523938", "title": "World Conference on Women, 1995", "text": "World Conference on Women, 1995\n\nThe Fourth World Conference on Women: Action for Equality, Development and Peace was the name given for a conference convened by the United Nations during 4–15 September 1995 in Beijing, China.\n\nThe founding United Nations charter (1945) included a provision for equality between men and women (chapter III, article 8). Subsequently, from 1945 to 1975 various female officials within the United Nations and leaders of women's movements on the global stage attempted to turn these principles into action. The United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution (resolution 3010) that 1975 should be International Women's Year. In December 1975, the UN General Assembly passed a further resolution (resolution 31/136) that 1976–1985 should be the \"Decade of Women\".\n\nIn conjunction with International Women's Year, the first world conference on women was held in Mexico City in 1975. It resulted in the Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Women and Their Contribution to Development and Peace.\n\nThe second world conference on women was held in Copenhagen in 1980. The conference agreed that the 1979 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women was an important milestone. The Copenhagen conference also acknowledged the gap between rights being secured for women and women's ability to exercise those rights. It was also agreed that it was action on the three areas of: equal access to education; employment opportunities; and adequate health care services are essential to achieve the goals set out in Mexico.\n\nThe third world conference on women was held in Nairobi in 1985. The Nairobi conference set out areas by which progress in women's equality could be measured: constitutional and legal measures; equality in social participation; equality in political participation; and decision-making. The conference also acknowledged that women need to participate in all areas of human activity, not just those areas that relate to gender.\n\nDelegates had prepared a Declaration and Platform for Action aimed at achieving greater equality and opportunity for women.\n\nIn fallout from pre-conference meetings, the Holy See publicly disagreed with positions outlined by the United States and other nations concerning abortion, reproductive rights, and other sensitive issues.\n\nGertrude Mongella of Tanzania was the secretary-general of the conference.\n\nAung San Suu Kyi delivered the keynote address at the conference.\n\nHillary Clinton, at the time the First Lady of the United States, gave the speech \"Women's Rights Are Human Rights\" at the conference on 5 September 1995. That speech is considered to be influential in the women's rights movement, and in 2013 Clinton led a review of how women's rights have changed since her 1995 speech. The 1995 speech was listed as No. 35 in American Rhetoric's Top 100 Speeches of the 20th Century (listed by rank).\n\nSaint Teresa of Calcutta, MC (26 August 1910 – 5 September 1997) more commonly known as Mother Teresa, gave a speech at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. Teresa stated \"Yet we can destroy this gift of motherhood, especially by the evil of abortion, but also by thinking that other things like jobs or positions are more important than loving.\"\n\nMany other speeches were also given at the conference, on behalf of governments, the United Nations and inter-governmental organizations, and non-governmental organizations.\n\nBeverly Palesa Ditsie is the first african lesbian woman to make a statement arguing for the rights of LGBT, espesially lesbians on the 13th of december 1995. to address the United Nations about LGBT rights.\n\nA summary of the Beijing Platform for Action is given below:\n\nA major result of the conference was the Beijing Declaration of Indigenous Women, signed at the NGO Forum in the Indigenous Women's Tent. This document seeks, in part, to reconcile the tension felt by Aboriginal women activists between (primarily white) feminism and Aboriginal movements dominated by men. It was a significant step forward towards Indigenous women's rights and a significant victory for Indigenous feminism practice.\n\nThe 50-point declaration provides rationale and a clear call to action for governments navigating Aboriginal issues across the globe. The demands in the document are \"that all governments and international non-governmental and governmental organizations recognize the right of Indigenous peoples to self-determination, and enshrine the historical, political, social, cultural, economic, and religious rights of the Indigenous peoples in their constitutions and legal systems.\" From that premise, the declaration goes on to specify areas for action including self-determination; development, education and health; human rights violations and violence against Indigenous women; intellectual and cultural heritage; and political participation.\n\nThe document addresses the unique problems Aboriginal women suffer in addition to those suffered by Aboriginal men, which include erosion of culture (and gender roles therein), loss of traditional land, and compromised identity and status in the spaces they inhabit.\n\nAs its bases, the declaration cites the \"UN Declaration of the International Decade of the World's Indigenous peoples, the Draft Declaration of the Rights of the Indigenous peoples, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, the Nairobi Forward Looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women, Agenda 21 and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam, and the Copenhagen Social Summit Declaration.\"\n\nIn 2014 UN Women began its commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women with the \"Empowering Women, Empowering Humanity: Picture It!\" campaign, also called the Beijing+20 campaign.\n\nIn 2015 a documentary called \"MAKERS: Once And For All\", about the Fourth World Conference on Women, premiered.\n"}
{"id": "372570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372570", "title": "Worshipful Company of Tallow Chandlers", "text": "Worshipful Company of Tallow Chandlers\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Tallow Chandlers is one of the ancient livery companies of the City of London. The organisation, which engaged not only in tallow candle making but also in the trade of oils, first received a Royal Charter in 1462. \n\nTraditionally tallow chandlers operated separately from wax chandlers: beeswax candles customarily being used in churches and noble houses, while tallow (animal fat) candles were generally used in other homes. As is the case with most other livery companies, the Tallow Chandlers' Company is no longer a trade association of candlemakers, its decline precipitated by the advent of electric lighting. The company now exists as a charitable institution and supports education in oil-related fields.\n\nThe company ranks 21st in the Precedence of Livery Companies in the City of London. Its motto is \"Ecce Agnus Dei, Ecce Qui Tollit Peccata Mundi\": Latin for \"Behold the Lamb of God, Who Takes Away the Sins of the World\", words of St John the Baptist (Patron Saint of the Company) in reference to Jesus.\n\n"}
