{"id": "29574350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29574350", "title": "36 royal races", "text": "36 royal races\n\nThe 36 royal races (\"Chathis Rajkula\") is a listing of Indian social groups purported to be the royal (ruling) clans of several states and Janapads spread over northern Indian subcontinent. Among the historical attempts at creating a comprehensive listing of the 36 are the \"Kumarapala Prabandha\" of Acharya Jinamandan Gani of 1435 AD, \"Prithviraj Raso\" of uncertain date, and Colonel James Tod, writing in 1829.\n\nThe \"Kumarpal Prabandha\" list gives 36 clans. It starts with dynasties mentioned in the classics, Ikshvaku, Yadu, Surya and Chandra. It mentions some of the famous clans: Parmar, Chauhan, Chaulukya (Solanki), Pratihara (these four are sometimes termed Agnikula) Ratt, Chandela and Pala. It also mentions local dynasties like Shilahara, Chapotkata, Nikumbh etc. Many of the names are less known. Notably, it includes the Maurya. \"Kumarpal Prabandha\" was consulted by Tod, he refers to it as Kumarpal Charit.\n\nThe list given in \"Prithviraj Raso\" has most of the names given in \"Kumarapala Prabandha\", approximately in the same order. Notably it adds Tank, and Kalachuri.\n\nA listing of the 36 was attempted by Tod in his 1829 work \"Annals and Antiquities of Rajasthan\" (volume 1). The \"races\" are further subdivided into 157 branches ( i.e. \"sakhas\"), and genealogical, cultural, and geographic information given for each, though some of the \"sakha\"s are extinct.\n\nThe principal ones like the Ghilote having 24 sub-branches, the Tuar or Tanwar 17, the Rathor 13, the Parmara 35, the Chamhan or Chauhan 26, the Challook or Solanki 16, and the Pratihara 12. Each \"sakha\" has its Gotracharya of genealogical creed describing the characteristics, religious practices, and the locale of the clan.\n\nAs early as 1872, Tod's list was criticised in the \"Calcutta Review\":\n\nTod listed the \"Jits\" as one of the 36 royal races. The Persian form of the ancient term \"Jit\" is \"Jatt\" (जट्ट) with short vowel and double short ‘t’. Tod included \"Raj Pali\" on the list and described them as \"Aheer\" or Ahir.\n\n"}
{"id": "2642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2642", "title": "Ajanta Caves", "text": "Ajanta Caves\n\nThe Ajanta Caves are 30 (approximately) rock-cut Buddhist cave monuments which date from the 2nd century BCE to about 480 CE in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra state of India. The caves include paintings and rock-cut sculptures described as among the finest surviving examples of ancient Indian art, particularly expressive paintings that present emotion through gesture, pose and form.\n\nAccording to UNESCO, these are masterpieces of Buddhist religious art that influenced the Indian art that followed. The caves were built in two phases, the first phase starting around the 2nd century BCE, while the second phase was built around 400–650 CE, according to older accounts, or in a brief period of 460–480 CE according to later scholarship. The site is a protected monument in the care of the Archaeological Survey of India, and since 1983, the Ajanta Caves have been a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe Ajanta Caves constitute ancient monasteries and worship-halls of different Buddhist traditions carved into a 250-feet wall of rock. The caves also present paintings depicting the past lives and rebirths of the Buddha, pictorial tales from Aryasura's \"Jatakamala\", and rock-cut sculptures of Buddhist deities. Textual records suggest that these caves served as a monsoon retreat for monks, as well as a resting-site for merchants and pilgrims in ancient India. While vivid colours and mural wall-painting were abundant in Indian history as evidenced by historical records, Caves 16, 17, 1 and 2 of Ajanta form the largest corpus of surviving ancient Indian wall-painting.\nThe Ajanta Caves are mentioned in the memoirs of several medieval-era Chinese Buddhist travellers to India and by a Mughal-era official of Akbar era in the early 17th century. They were covered by jungle until accidentally \"discovered\" and brought to Western attention in 1819 by a colonial British officer Captain John Smith on a tiger-hunting party. The Ajanta Caves are located on the side of a rocky cliff that is on the north side of a U-shaped gorge on the small river Waghur, in the Deccan plateau. Further round the gorge are a number of waterfalls, which, when the river is high, are audible from outside the caves.\n\nWith the Ellora Caves, Ajanta is one of the major tourist attractions of Maharashtra. It is about\n\nThe Ajanta Caves are generally agreed to have been made in two distinct periods, the first belonging to the 2nd century BCE to 1st century CE, and a second period that followed several centuries later.\n\nThe caves consist of 36 identifiable foundations, some of them discovered after the original numbering of the caves from 1 through 29. The later identified caves have been suffixed with the letters of the alphabet, such as 15A, identified between originally numbered caves 15 and 16. The cave-numbering is a convention of convenience, and has nothing to do with chronological order of their construction.\n\nThe earliest group's construction consists of caves 9, 10, 12, 13 and 15A. This grouping, and their belonging to the Hinayana (Theravada) tradition of Buddhism, is generally accepted by scholars, but there are differing opinions on which century in which the early caves were built. According to Walter Spink, they were made during the period 100 BCE to 100 CE, probably under the patronage of the Hindu Satavahana dynasty (230 BCE – c. 220 CE) who ruled the region. Other datings prefer the period of the Maurya Empire (300 BCE to 100 BCE). Of these, caves 9 and 10 are stupa containing worship halls of \"chaitya-griha\" form, and caves 12, 13, and 15A are \"vihāras\" (see the architecture section below for descriptions of these types). The first Satavahana period caves lacked figurative sculpture, emphasizing the stupa instead.\n\nAccording to Spink, once the Satavahana period caves were made, the site was not further developed for a considerable period until the mid-5th century. However, the early caves were in use during this dormant period, and Buddhist pilgrims visited the site, according to the records left by Chinese pilgrim Faxian around 400 CE.\n\nThe second phase of construction at the Ajanta Caves site began in the 5th century. For a long time it was thought that the later caves were made over an extended period from the 4th to the 7th centuries CE, but in recent decades a series of studies by the leading expert on the caves, Walter M. Spink, have argued that most of the work took place over the very brief period from 460 to 480 CE, during the reign of Hindu Emperor Harishena of the Vākāṭaka dynasty. This view has been criticised by some scholars, but is now broadly accepted by most authors of general books on Indian art, for example Huntington and Harle.\nThe second phase is attributed to the theistic Mahāyāna, or Greater Vehicle tradition of Buddhism. Caves of the second period are 1–8, 11, 14–29, some possibly extensions of earlier caves. Caves 19, 26, and 29 are \"chaitya-grihas\", the rest \"viharas\". The most elaborate caves were produced in this period, which included some refurbishing and repainting of the early caves.\n\nSpink states that it is possible to establish dating for this period with a very high level of precision; a fuller account of his chronology is given below. Although debate continues, Spink's ideas are increasingly widely accepted, at least in their broad conclusions. The Archaeological Survey of India website still presents the traditional dating: \"The second phase of paintings started around 5th–6th centuries A.D. and continued for the next two centuries\".\n\nAccording to Spink, the construction activity at the incomplete Ajanta Caves was abandoned by wealthy patrons in about 480 CE, a few years after the death of Harishena. However, states Spink, the caves appear to have been in use for a period of time as evidenced by the wear of the pivot holes caves constructed close to 480 CE. The second phase of constructions and decorations at Ajanta corresponds to the very apogee of Classical India, or India's golden age.\n\nAccording to Richard Cohen, 7th-century Chinese traveler Xuanzang's reports about the caves, and the scattered graffiti from the medieval centuries uncovered at the site suggests that the Ajanta Caves were known and probably in use, but without a stable or steady Buddhist community presence at the site. The Ajanta caves are mentioned in the 17th-century text \"Ain-i-Akbari\" by Abu al-Fazl, as twenty four rock-cut cave temples each with remarkable idols.\n\nOn 28 April 1819, a British officer named John Smith, of the 28th Cavalry, while hunting tigers, \"discovered\" the entrance to Cave No. 10 when a local shepherd boy guided him to the location and the door. The caves were well known by locals already. Captain Smith went to a nearby village and asked the villagers to come to the site with axes, spears, torches and drums, to cut down the tangled jungle growth that made entering the cave difficult. He then vandalised the wall by scratching his name and the date over the painting of a bodhisattva. Since he stood on a five-foot high pile of rubble collected over the years, the inscription is well above the eye-level gaze of an adult today. A paper on the caves by William Erskine was read to the Bombay Literary Society in 1822.\nWithin a few decades, the caves became famous for their \"exotic\" setting, impressive architecture, and above all their exceptional and unique paintings. A number of large projects to copy the paintings were made in the century after rediscovery. In 1848, the Royal Asiatic Society established the \"Bombay Cave Temple Commission\" to clear, tidy and record the most important rock-cut sites in the Bombay Presidency, with John Wilson as president. In 1861 this became the nucleus of the new Archaeological Survey of India.\n\nDuring the colonial era, the Ajanta site was in the territory of the princely state of the Hyderabad and not British India. In the early 1920s, the Nizam of Hyderabad appointed people to restore the artwork, converted the site into a museum and built a road to bring tourists to the site for a fee. These efforts resulted in early mismanagement, states Richard Cohen, and hastened the deterioration of the site. Post-independence, the state government of Maharashtra built arrival, transport, facilities and better site management. The modern Visitor Center has good parking facilities and public conveniences and ASI operated buses run at regular intervals from Visitor Center to the caves.\n\nThe Ajanta Caves, along with the Ellora Caves, have become the most popular tourist destination in Maharashtra, and are often crowded at holiday times, increasing the threat to the caves, especially the paintings. In 2012, the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation announced plans to add to the ASI visitor centre at the entrance complete replicas of caves 1, 2, 16 & 17 to reduce crowding in the originals, and enable visitors to receive a better visual idea of the paintings, which are dimly-lit and hard to read in the caves.\n\nThe caves are carved out of flood basalt rock of a cliff, part of the Deccan Traps formed by successive volcanic eruptions at the end of the Cretaceous geological period. The rock is layered horizontally, and somewhat variable in quality. This variation within the rock layers required the artists to amend their carving methods and plans in places. The inhomogeneity in the rock have also led to cracks and collapses in the centuries that followed, as with the lost portico to cave 1. Excavation began by cutting a narrow tunnel at roof level, which was expanded downwards and outwards; as evidenced by some of the incomplete caves such as the partially-built \"vihara\" caves 21 through 24 and the abandoned incomplete cave 28.\n\nThe sculpture artists likely worked at both excavating the rocks and making the intricate carvings of pillars, roof and idols; further, the sculpture and painting work inside a cave were an integrated parallel tasks. A grand gateway to the site was carved, at the apex of the gorge's horseshoe between caves 15 and 16, as approached from the river, and it is decorated with elephants on either side and a nāga, or protective Naga (snake) deity. Similar methods and application of artist talent is observed in other cave temples of India, such as those from Hinduism and Jainism. These include the Ellora caves, Ghototkacha caves, Elephanta Caves, Bagh Caves, Badami Caves, Aurangabad Caves and Shivleni Caves.\n\nThe caves from the first period seem to have been paid for by a number of different patrons to gain merit, with several inscriptions recording the donation of particular portions of a single cave. The later caves were each commissioned as a complete unit by a single patron from the local rulers or their court elites, again for merit in Buddhist afterlife beliefs as evidenced by inscriptions such as those in Cave 17. After the death of Harisena, smaller donors motivated by getting merit added small \"shrinelets\" between the caves or add statues to existing caves, and some two hundred of these \"intrusive\" additions were made in sculpture, with a further number of intrusive paintings, up to three hundred in cave 10 alone.\n\nThe majority of the caves are \"vihara\" halls with symmetrical square plans. To each vihara hall are attached smaller square dormitory cells cut into the walls. A vast majority of the caves were carved in the second period, wherein a shrine or sanctuary is appended at the rear of the cave, centred on a large statue of the Buddha, along with exuberantly detailed reliefs and deities near him as well as on the pillars and walls, all carved out of the natural rock. This change reflects the shift from Hinayana to Mahāyāna Buddhism. These caves are often called monasteries.\n\nThe central square space of the interior of the viharas is defined by square columns forming a more-or-less square open area. Outside this are long rectangular aisles on each side, forming a kind of cloister. Along the side and rear walls are a number of small cells entered by a narrow doorway; these are roughly square, and have small niches on their back walls. Originally they had wooden doors. The centre of the rear wall has a larger shrine-room behind, containing a large Buddha statue.\n\nThe viharas of the earlier period are much simpler, and lack shrines. Spink places the change to a design with a shrine to the middle of the second period, with many caves being adapted to add a shrine in mid-excavation, or after the original phase.\n\nThe plan of Cave 1 shows one of the largest viharas, but is fairly typical of the later group. Many others, such as Cave 16, lack the vestibule to the shrine, which leads straight off the main hall. Cave 6 is two viharas, one above the other, connected by internal stairs, with sanctuaries on both levels.\n\nThe other type of main hall architecture is the narrower rectangular plan with high arched ceiling type \"chaitya-griha\" – literally, \"the house of stupa\". This hall is longitudinally divided into a nave and two narrower side aisles separated by a symmetrical row of pillars, with a stupa in the apse. The stupa is surrounded by pillars and a concentric walking space for circumambulation. Some of the caves have elaborate carved entrances, some with large windows over the door to admit light. There is often a colonnaded porch or verandah, with another space inside the doors running the width of the cave. The oldest worship halls at Ajanta were built in the 2nd to 1st century BCE, the newest ones in the late 5th century CE, and the architecture of both resembles the architecture of a Christian church, but without the crossing or chapel chevette. The Ajanta Caves follow the Cathedral-style architecture found in still older rock-cut cave carvings of ancient India, such as the Lomas Rishi Cave of the Ajivikas near Gaya in Bihar dated to the 3rd century BCE. These chaitya-griha are called worship or prayer halls.\n\nThe four completed \"chaitya\" halls are caves 9 and 10 from the early period, and caves 19 and 26 from the later period of construction. All follow the typical form found elsewhere, with high ceilings and a central \"nave\" leading to the stupa, which is near the back, but allows walking behind it, as walking around stupas was (and remains) a common element of Buddhist worship (\"pradakshina\"). The later two have high ribbed roofs carved into the rock, which reflect timber forms, and the earlier two are thought to have used actual timber ribs and are now smooth, the original wood presumed to have perished. The two later halls have a rather unusual arrangement (also found in Cave 10 at Ellora) where the stupa is fronted by a large relief sculpture of the Buddha, standing in Cave 19 and seated in Cave 26. Cave 29 is a late and very incomplete \"chaitya\" hall.\n\nThe form of columns in the work of the first period is very plain and un-embellished, with both \"chaitya\" halls using simple octagonal columns, which were later painted with images of the Buddha, people and monks in robes. In the second period columns were far more varied and inventive, often changing profile over their height, and with elaborate carved capitals, often spreading wide. Many columns are carved over all their surface with floral motifs and Mahayana deities, some fluted and others carved with decoration all over, as in cave 1.\n\nThe paintings in the Ajanta caves predominantly narrate the Jataka tales. These are Buddhist legends describing the previous births of the Buddha. These fables embed ancient morals and cultural lores that are also found in the fables and legends of Hindu and Jain texts. The Jataka tales are exemplified through the life example and sacrifices that the Buddha made in hundreds of his past incarnations, where he is depicted as having been reborn as an animal or human.\n\nMural paintings survive from both the earlier and later groups of caves. Several fragments of murals preserved from the earlier caves (Caves 10 and 11) are effectively unique survivals of ancient painting in India from this period, and \"show that by Sātavāhana times, if not earlier, the Indian painters had mastered an easy and fluent naturalistic style, dealing with large groups of people in a manner comparable to the reliefs of the Sāñcī toraņa crossbars\". Some connections with the art of Gandhara can also be noted, and there is evidence of a shared artistic idiom.\n\nFour of the later caves have large and relatively well-preserved mural paintings which, states James Harle, \"have come to represent Indian mural painting to the non-specialist\", and represent \"the great glories not only of Gupta but of all Indian art\". They fall into two stylistic groups, with the most famous in Caves 16 and 17, and apparently later paintings in Caves 1 and 2. The latter group were thought to be a century or more later than the others, but the revised chronology proposed by Spink would place them in the 5th century as well, perhaps contemporary with it in a more progressive style, or one reflecting a team from a different region. The Ajanta frescos are classical paintings and the work of confident artists, without cliches, rich and full. They are luxurious, sensuous and celebrate physical beauty, aspects that early Western observers felt were shockingly out of place in these caves presumed to be meant for religious worship and ascetic monastic life.\n\nThe paintings are in \"dry fresco\", painted on top of a dry plaster surface rather than into wet plaster. All the paintings appear to be the work of painters supported by discriminating connoisseurship and sophisticated patrons from an urban atmosphere. We know from literary sources that painting was widely practised and appreciated in the Gupta period. Unlike much Indian mural painting, compositions are not laid out in horizontal bands like a frieze, but show large scenes spreading in all directions from a single figure or group at the centre. The ceilings are also painted with sophisticated and elaborate decorative motifs, many derived from sculpture. The paintings in cave 1, which according to Spink was commissioned by Harisena himself, concentrate on those Jataka tales which show previous lives of the Buddha as a king, rather than as deer or elephant or another Jataka animal. The scenes depict the Buddha as about to renounce the royal life.\n\nIn general the later caves seem to have been painted on finished areas as excavating work continued elsewhere in the cave, as shown in caves 2 and 16 in particular. According to Spink's account of the chronology of the caves, the abandonment of work in 478 after a brief busy period accounts for the absence of painting in places including cave 4 and the shrine of cave 17, the later being plastered in preparation for paintings that were never done.\nWalter M. Spink has over recent decades developed a very precise and circumstantial chronology for the second period of work on the site, which unlike earlier scholars, he places entirely in the 5th century. This is based on evidence such as the inscriptions and artistic style, dating of nearby cave temple sites, comparative chronology of the dynasties, combined with the many uncompleted elements of the caves. He believes the earlier group of caves, which like other scholars he dates only approximately, to the period \"between 100 BCE – 100 CE\", were at some later point completely abandoned and remained so \"for over three centuries\". This changed during the Hindu emperor Harishena of the Vakataka Dynasty, who reigned from 460 to his death in 477, who sponsored numerous new caves during his reign. Harisena's rule extended the Central Indian Vakataka Empire to include a stretch of the east coast of India; the Gupta Empire ruled northern India at the same period, and the Pallava dynasty much of the south.\nAccording to Spink, Harisena encouraged a group of associates, including his prime minister Varahadeva and Upendragupta, the sub-king in whose territory Ajanta was, to dig out new caves, which were individually commissioned, some containing inscriptions recording the donation. This activity began in many caves simultaneously about 462. This activity was mostly suspended in 468 because of threats from the neighbouring Asmaka kings. Thereafter work continued on only Caves 1, Harisena's own commission, and 17–20, commissioned by Upendragupta. In 472 the situation was such that work was suspended completely, in a period that Spink calls \"the Hiatus\", which lasted until about 475, by which time the Asmakas had replaced Upendragupta as the local rulers.\n\nWork was then resumed, but again disrupted by Harisena's death in 477, soon after which major excavation ceased, except at cave 26, which the Asmakas were sponsoring themselves. The Asmakas launched a revolt against Harisena's son, which brought about the end of the Vakataka Dynasty. In the years 478–480 CE major excavation by important patrons was replaced by a rash of \"intrusions\" – statues added to existing caves, and small shrines dotted about where there was space between them. These were commissioned by less powerful individuals, some monks, who had not previously been able to make additions to the large excavations of the rulers and courtiers. They were added to the facades, the return sides of the entrances, and to walls inside the caves. According to Spink, \"After 480, not a single image was ever made again at the site\". However, there exists a Rashtrakuta inscription outside of cave 26 dateable to end of seventh or early 8th century, suggesting the caves were not abandoned until then.\n\nSpink does not use \"circa\" in his dates, but says that \"one should allow a margin of error of one year or perhaps even two in all cases\".\n\nThe Ajanta Caves were built in a period when both the Buddha and the Hindu gods were simultaneously revered in Indian culture. According to Spink and other scholars, not only the Ajanta Caves but other nearby cave temples were sponsored and built by Hindus. This is evidenced by inscriptions wherein the role as well as the Hindu heritage of the donor is proudly proclaimed. According to Spink,\n\nThe role of Hindu artisans is confirmed by archaeological excavations across the river from the Ajanta caves. The caves must have employed a large workforce of artisans who likely lived for extended period of time nearby, across from the river near the site. Excavations have uncovered extensive brick structures for workers and visiting elite sponsors, along with Shaiva and Shakta Hindu deities such as a red sandstone image of Durga Mahishasuramardini. According to Yuko Yokoschi and Walter Spink, these excavated artifacts of the 5th century near the site suggest that the Ajanta caves deployed a huge number of builders.\n\nCave 1 was built on the eastern end of the horse-shoe-shaped scarp and is now the first cave the visitor encounters. This cave, when first made, would have been a less prominent position, right at the end of the row. According to Spink, it is one of the last caves to have been excavated, when the best sites had been taken, and was never fully inaugurated for worship by the dedication of the Buddha image in the central shrine. This is shown by the absence of sooty deposits from butter lamps on the base of the shrine image, and the lack of damage to the paintings that would have happened if the garland-hooks around the shrine had been in use for any period of time. Spink states that the Vākāţaka Emperor Harishena was the benefactor of the work, and this is reflected in the emphasis on imagery of royalty in the cave, with those Jataka tales being selected that tell of those previous lives of the Buddha in which he was royal.\n\nThe cliff has a more steep slope here than at other caves, so to achieve a tall grand facade it was necessary to cut far back into the slope, giving a large courtyard in front of the facade. There was originally a columned portico in front of the present facade, which can be seen \"half-intact in the 1880s\" in pictures of the site, but this fell down completely and the remains, despite containing fine carvings, were carelessly thrown down the slope into the river, from where they have been lost.\nThis cave (35.7 m x 27.6 m) has one of the most elaborate carved façades, with relief sculptures on entablature and ridges, and most surfaces embellished with decorative carving. There are scenes carved from the life of the Buddha as well as a number of decorative motifs. A two-pillared portico, visible in the 19th-century photographs, has since perished. The cave has a front court with cells fronted by pillared vestibules on either side. These have a high plinth level. The cave has a porch with simple cells on both ends. The absence of pillared vestibules on the ends suggests that the porch was not excavated in the latest phase of Ajanta when pillared vestibules had become customary. Most areas of the porch were once covered with murals, of which many fragments remain, especially on the ceiling. There are three doorways: a central doorway and two side doorways. Two square windows were carved between the doorways to brighten the interiors.\n\nEach wall of the hall inside is nearly long and high. Twelve pillars make a square colonnade inside supporting the ceiling, and creating spacious aisles along the walls. There is a shrine carved on the rear wall to house an impressive seated image of the Buddha, his hands being in the \"dharmachakrapravartana mudra.\" There are four cells on each of the left, rear, and the right walls, though due to rock fault there are none at the ends of the rear aisle.\n\nCave 2, adjacent to Cave 1, is known for the paintings that have been preserved on its walls, ceilings, and pillars. It looks similar to Cave 1 and is in a better state of preservation. This cave is best known for its feminine focus, intricate rock carvings and paint artwork yet it is incomplete and lacks consistency. One of the 5th-century frescos in this cave also shows children at a school, with those in the front rows paying attention to the teacher, while those in the back row are shown distracted and acting.\n\nCave 2 (35.7 m x 21.6 m) was started in the 460s, but mostly carved between 475 and 477 CE, probably sponsored and influenced by a woman closely related to emperor Harisena. It has a porch quite different from Cave 1. Even the façade carvings seem to be different. The cave is supported by robust pillars, ornamented with designs. The front porch consists of cells supported by pillared vestibules on both ends.\nThe hall has four colonnades which are supporting the ceiling and surrounding a square in the center of the hall. Each arm or colonnade of the square is parallel to the respective walls of the hall, making an aisle in between. The colonnades have rock-beams above and below them. The capitals are carved and painted with various decorative themes that include ornamental, human, animal, vegetative, and semi-divine motifs. Major carvings include that of goddess Hariti. She is a Buddhist deity who originally was the demoness of smallpox and a child eater, who the Buddha converted into a guardian goddess of fertility, easy child birth and one who protects babies.\n\nCave 3 is merely a start of an excavation; according to Spink it was begun right at the end of the final period of work and soon abandoned.\n\nThis is an incomplete monastery and only the preliminary excavations of pillared veranda exists. The cave was one of the very last projects to start at the site. Its date could be ascribed to circa 477 CE, just before the sudden death of Emperor Harisena. The work stopped after the scooping out of a rough entrance of the hall.\n\nCave 4, a vihara, was sponsored by Mathura, likely not a noble or courtly official, rather a wealthy devotee. This is the largest vihara in the inaugural group, which suggests he had immense wealth and influence without being a state official. It is placed at a significantly higher level, possibly because the artists realized that the rock quality at the lower and same level of other caves was poor and they had a better chance of a major vihara at an upper location. Another likely possibility is that the planners wanted to carve into the rock another large cistern to the left court side for more residents, mirroring the right, a plan implied by the height of the forward cells on the left side.\n\nThe Archaeological Survey of India dates it to the 6th century CE. Spink, in contrast, dates this cave's inauguration a century earlier, to about 463 CE, based on construction style and other inscriptions. Cave 4 shows evidence of a dramatic collapse of its ceiling in the central hall, likely in the 6th century, something caused by the vastness of the cave and geological flaws in the rock. Later, the artists attempted to overcome this geological flaw by raising the height of the ceiling through deeper excavation of the embedded basalt lava.\nThe cave has a squarish plan, houses a colossal image of the Buddha in preaching pose flanked by bodhisattvas and celestial nymphs hovering above. It consists, of a verandah, a hypostylar hall, sanctum with an antechamber and a series of unfinished cells. This monastery is the largest among the Ajanta caves and it measures nearly (35m x 28m). The door frame is exquisitely sculpted flanking to the right is carved Bodhisattva as reliever of Eight Great Perils. The rear wall of the verandah contains the panel of litany of Avalokiteśvara. The cave's ceiling collapse likely affected its overall plan, caused it being left incomplete. Only the Buddha's statue and the major sculptures were completed, and except for what the sponsor considered most important elements all other elements inside the cave were never painted.\n\n was planned as a monastery (10.32 X 16.8 m). Cave 5 is devoid of sculpture and architectural elements except the door frame. The ornate carvings on the frame has female figures with mythical \"makara\" creatures found in ancient and medieval era Indian arts. The cave's construction was likely initiated about 465 CE but abandoned because the rock has geological flaws. The construction was resumed in 475 CE after Asmakas restarted work at the Ajanta caves, but abandoned again as the artists and sponsor redesigned and focussed on an expanded Cave 6 that abuts Cave 5.\n\nCave 6 is two storey monastery (16.85 X 18.07 m). It consists of a sanctum, a hall on both levels. The lower level is pillared and has attached cells. The upper hall also has subsidiary cells. The sanctums on both level feature a Buddha in the teaching posture. Elsewhere, the Buddha is shown in different mudras. The lower level walls depict the Miracle of Sravasti and the Temptation of Mara legends. Only the lower floor of cave 6 was finished. The unfinished upper floor of cave 6 has many private votive sculptures, and a shrine Buddha.\n\nThe lower level of the Cave 6 likely was the earliest excavation in the second stage of construction. This stage marked the Mahayana theme and Vakataka renaissance period of Ajanta reconstruction that started about four centuries after the earlier Hinayana theme construction. The upper storey was not envisioned in the beginning, it was added as an after thought, likely around the time when the architects and artists abandoned further work on the geologically-flawed rock of Cave 5 immediately next to it. Both lower and upper Cave 6 show crude experimentation and construction errors. The cave work was most likely in progress between 460 and 470 CE, and it is the first that shows attendant Bodhisattvas. The upper cave construction probably began in 465, progressed swiftly, and much deeper into the rock than the lower level.\n\nThe walls and sanctum's door frame of the both levels are intricately carved. These show themes such as \"makaras\" and other mythical creatures, apsaras, elephants in different stages of activity, females in waving or welcoming gesture. The upper level of Cave 6 is significant in that it shows a devotee in a kneeling posture at the Buddha's feet, an indication of devotional worship practices by the 5th century. The colossal Buddha of the shrine has an elaborate throne back, but was hastily finished in 477/478 CE, when king Harisena died. The shrine antechamber of the cave features an unfinished sculptural group of the Six Buddhas of the Past, of which only five statues were carved. This idea may have been influenced from those in Bagh Caves of Madhya Pradesh.\n\nThe Cave 7 is also a monastery (15.55 X 31.25 m) but a single storey. It consists of a sanctum, a hall with octagonal pillars, and eight small rooms for monks. The sanctum Buddha is shown in preaching posture. There are many art panels narrating Buddhist themes, including those of the Buddha with Nagamuchalinda and Miracle of Sravasti.\n\nCave 7 has a grand facade with two porticos. The veranda has eight pillars of two types. One has an octagonal base with amalaka and lotus capital. The other lacks a distinctly shaped base, features an octagonal shaft instead with a plain capital. The veranda opens into an antechamber. On the left side in this antechamber are seated or standing sculptures such as those of 25 carved seated Buddhas in various postures and facial expressions, while on the right side are 58 seated Buddha reliefs in different postures, all placed on lotus. These Buddhas and others on the inner walls of the antechamber are a sculptural depiction of the Miracle of Sravasti in Buddhist theology. The bottom row show two Nagas (serpents with hoods) holding the blooming lotus stalk. The antechamber leads to the sanctum through a door frame. On this frame are carved two females standing on \"makaras\" (mythical sea creatures). Inside the sanctum is the Buddha sitting on a lion throne in cross legged posture, surrounded by other Bodhisattva figures, two attendants with \"chauris\" and flying apsaras above.\n\nPerhaps because of faults in the rock, Cave 7 was never taken very deep into the cliff. It consists only of the two porticos and a shrine room with antechamber, with no central hall. Some cells were fitted in. The cave artwork likely underwent revisions and refurbishments over time. The first version was complete by about 469 CE, the myriad Buddhas added and painted a few years later between 476 and 478 CE.\n\nCave 8 is another unfinished monastery (15.24 X 24.64 m). For many decades in the 20th-century, this cave was used as a storage and generator room. It is at the river level with easy access, relatively lower than other caves, and according to Archaeological Survey of India it is possibly one of earliest monasteries. Much of its front is damaged, likely from a landslide. The cave excavation proved difficult and probably abandoned after a geological fault consisting of a mineral layer proved disruptive to stable carvings.\n\nSpink, in contrast, states that Cave 8 is perhaps the earliest cave from the second period, its shrine an \"afterthought\". It may well be the oldest Mahayana monastery excavated in India, according to Spink. The statue may have been loose rather than carved from the living rock, as it has now vanished. The cave was painted, but only traces remain.\n\nCaves 9 and 10 are the two \"chaitya\" or worship halls from the 2nd to 1st century BCE – the first period of construction, though both were reworked upon the end of the second period of construction in the 5th century CE.\n\nCave 9 (18.24 m x 8.04 m) is smaller than Cave 10 (30.5 m x 12.2 m), but more complex. This has led Spink to the view that Cave 10 was perhaps originally of the 1st century BCE, and cave 9 about a hundred years later. The small \"shrinelets\" called caves 9A to 9D and 10A also date from the second period. These were commissioned by individuals. Cave 9 arch has remnant profile that suggests that it likely had wooden fittings.\n\nThe cave has a distinct apsidal shape, nave, aisle and an apse with an icon, an architecture and plan that reminds one of cathedrals built in Europe many centuries later. The aisle has a row of 23 pillars. The ceiling is vaulted. The stupa is at the center of the apse, with a circumambulation path around it. The stupa sits on a high cylindrical base. On the left wall of the cave are votaries approaching the stupa, which suggests a devotional tradition.\n\nAccording to Spink, the paintings in this cave, including the intrusive standing Buddhas on the pillars, were added in the 5th century. Above the pillars and also behind the stupa are colorful paintings of the Buddha with Padmapani and Vajrapani next to him, they wear jewels and necklaces, while yogis, citizens and Buddhist \"bhikshu\" are shown approaching the Buddha with garlands and offerings, with men wearing \"dhoti\" and turbans wrapped around their heads. On the walls are friezes of Jataka tales, but likely from the Hinayana phase of early construction. Some of the panels and reliefs inside as well as outside Cave 10 do not make narrative sense, but are related to Buddhist legends. This lack of narrative flow may be because these were added by different monks and official donors in the 5th century wherever empty space was available. This devotionalism and the worship hall character of this cave is the likely reason why four additional shrinelets 9A, 9B, 9C and 9D were added between Cave 9 and 10.\n\nCave 10, a vast prayer hall or Chaitya, is dated to about the 1st century BCE, together with the nearby vihara cave No 12. These two caves are thus among the earliest of the Ajanta complex. It has a large central apsidal hall with a row of 39 octagonal pillars, a nave separating its aisle and stupa at the end for worship. The stupa has a \"pradakshina patha\" (circumambulatory path).\n\nThis cave is significant because its scale confirms the influence of Buddhism in South Asia by the 1st century BCE and its continued though declining influence in India through the 5th century CE. Further, the cave includes a number of inscriptions where parts of the cave are \"gifts of prasada\" by different individuals, which in turn suggests that the cave was sponsored as a community effort rather than a single king or one elite official. Cave 10 is also historically important because in April 1819, a British Army officer John Smith saw its arch and introduced his discovery to the attention to the Western audience.\n\nSeveral others caves were also built in Western India around the same period under royal sponsorship. It is thought that the chronology of these early Chaitya Caves is as follows: first Cave 9 at Kondivite Caves and then Cave 12 at the Bhaja Caves, which both predate Cave 10 of Ajanta. Then, after Cave 10 of Ajanta, in chronological order: Cave 3 at Pitalkhora, Cave 1 at Kondana Caves, Cave 9 at Ajanta, which, with its more ornate designs, may have been built about a century later, Cave 18 at Nasik Caves, and Cave 7 at Bedse Caves, to finally culminate with the \"final perfection\" of the Great Chaitya at Karla Caves.\n\n\nCave 10 features a Sanskrit inscription in Brahmi script that is archaeologically important. The inscription is the oldest of the Ajanta site and reads:\n include some surviving from the early period, many from an incomplete programme of modernisation in the second period, and a very large number of smaller late intrusive images for votive purposes, around the 479–480 CE, nearly all Buddhas and many with donor inscriptions from individuals. These mostly avoided over-painting the \"official\" programme and after the best positions were used up are tucked away in less prominent positions not yet painted; the total of these (including those now lost) was probably over 300, and the hands of many different artists are visible. The paintings are numerous and from two periods, many narrating the Jataka tales in a clockwise sequence. Both Hinayana and Mahayana stage paintings are discernable, though the former are more faded and begrimed with early centuries of Hinayana worship. Of interest here is the Saddanta Jataka tale – the fable about six tusked elephant, and the Shyama Jataka – the story about the man who dedicates his life serving his blind parents. According to Stella Kramrisch, the oldest layer of the Cave 10 paintings date from about 100 BCE, and the principles behind their composition are analogous to those from the same era at Sanchi and Amaravati.\n\nThe Cave 11 is a monastery (19.87 X 17.35 m) from the later 5th century. The cave veranda has pillars with octagonal shafts and square bases. The ceiling of the veranda shows evidence of floral designs and eroded reliefs. Only the center panel is discernible wherein the Buddha is seen with votaries lining up to pray before him. Inside, the cave consists of a hall with a long rock bench opening into six rooms. Similar stone benches are found in Nasik caves. Another pillared verandah ends in a sanctum with seated Buddha against an incomplete stupa, and has four cells.\n\nThe cave has a few paintings showing Bodhisattvas and the Buddha. Of these, the Padmapani, a couple gathered to pray, a pair of peafowl, and a female figure painting have survived in the best condition. The sanctum of this cave may be among the last structures built at Ajanta because it features a circumambulation path around the seated Buddha.\n\nAccording to Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Cave 12 is an early stage Hinayana (Theravada) monastery (14.9 X 17.82 m) from the 2nd to 1st century BCE. Spink however only dates it to the 1st century BCE.\n\nThe cave is damaged with its front wall completely collapsed. Its three sides inside have twelve cells, each with two stone beds.\n\nCave 13 is another small monastery from the early period, consisting of a hall with seven cells, each also with two stone beds, all carved out of the rock. Each cell has rock-cut beds for the monks. In contrast to ASI's estimate, Gupte and Mahajan date both these caves about two to three centuries later, between 1st and 2nd century CE.\n\nCave 14 is another unfinished monastery (13.43 X 19.28 m) but carved above Cave 13. The entrance door frame shows \"sala bhanjikas\".\n\nCave 15 is a more complete monastery (19.62 X 15.98 m) with evidence that it had paintings. The cave consists of an eight celled hall ending in a sanctum, an antechamber and a verandah with pillars. The reliefs show the Buddha, while the sanctum Buddha is shown seated in the Simhasana posture. Cave 15 door frame has carvings of pigeons eating corn.\n\nCave 15A is the smallest cave with a hall and one cell on each side. Its entrance is located just to the right of the elephant-decorated entrance to Cave 16. It is an ancient Hinayana cave with three cells opening around a minuscule central hall. The doors are decorated with a rail and arch pattern. It had an inscription in an ancient script, which has been lost.\n\nCave 16 occupies a prime position near the middle of site, and was sponsored by Varahadeva, minister of Vakataka king Harishena (r. c. 475 – c. 500 CE). He devoted it to the community of monks, with an inscription that expresses his wish, may \"the entire world (...) enter that peaceful and noble state free from sorrow and disease\". He was, states Spink, someone who revered both the Buddha and the Hindu gods. The 7th-century Chinese traveler Xuan Zang described the cave as the entrance to the site.\n\nCave 16 (19.5 m x 22.25 m x 4.6 m) influenced the architecture of the entire site. Spink and other scholars call it the \"crucial cave\" that helps trace the chronology of the second and closing stages of the entire cave complex's construction. Cave 16 is a Mahayana monastery and has the standard arrangement of a main doorway, two windows, and two aisle doorways. The veranda of this monastery is 19.5 m x 3 m, while the main hall is almost a perfect square with 19.5 m side.\n\nThe Mahaummagga Jataka frescos are found on the left wall of the corridor, which narrates the story of a child Bodhisattva. Thereafter, in the left corridor is the legend surrounding the conversion of Nanda – the half brother of the Buddha. The story depicted is one of the two major versions of the Nanda legend in the Buddhist tradition, one where Nanda wants to lead a sensuous life with the girl he had just wed and the Buddha takes him to heaven and later hell to show the spiritual dangers of a sensual life. After the Nanda-related frescos, the cave presents Manushi Buddhas, followed by flying votaries with offerings to worship the Buddha and the Buddha seated in teaching asana and \"dharma chakra mudra\".\n\nThe right wall of the corridor show the scenes from the life of the Buddha. These include Sujata offering food to the Buddha with a begging bowl in white dress, Tapussa and Bhalluka next to the Buddha after they offering wheat and honey to the Buddha as monk, the future Buddha sitting alone under a tree, and the Buddha at a ploughing festival. One mural shows Buddha's parents trying to dissuade him from becoming a monk. Another shows the Buddha at the palace surrounded by men in \"dhoti\" and women in \"sari\" as his behavior presents the four signs that he is likely to renounce. On this side of the corridor are also paintings that show the future Buddha as a baby with sage Asita with rishi-like looks. According to Spink, some of the Cave 16 paintings were left incomplete.\n\nCave 17 (34.5 m x 25.63 m) along with Cave 16 with two great stone elephants at the entrance and Cave 26 with sleeping Buddha, were some of the many caves sponsored by the Hindu Vakataka prime minister Varahadeva. Cave 17 had additional donors such as the local king Upendragupta, as evidenced by the inscription therein.\n\nThe cave features a large and most sophisticated vihara design, along with some of the best-preserved and well known paintings of all the caves. While Cave 16 is known for depicting the life stories of the Buddha, the Cave 17 paintings has attracted much attention for extolling human virtues by narrating the Jataka tales. The narration includes an attention to details and a realism which Stella Kramrisch calls \"lavish elegance\" accomplished by efficient craftsmen. The ancient artists, states Kramrisch, tried to show wind passing over a crop by showing it bending in waves, and a similar profusion of rhythmic sequences that unroll story after story, visually presenting the metaphysical.\nThe Cave 17 monastery includes a colonnaded porch, a number of pillars each with a distinct style, a peristyle design for the interior hall, a shrine antechamber located deep in the cave, larger windows and doors for more light, along with extensive integrated carvings of Indian gods and goddesses. The hall of this monastery is a square, with 20 pillars. The grand scale of the carving also introduced errors of taking out too much rock to shape the walls, states Spink, which led to the cave being splayed out toward the rear.\n\nCave 17 has one long inscription by king Upendragupta, in which he explains that he has \"expended abundant wealth” on building this vihara, bringing much satisfaction to the devotees. Altogether, Upendragupta is known to have sponsored at least 5 of the caves in Ajanta. He may have spent too much wealth on religious pursuits however, as he was ultimately defeated by the attacks of the Asmaka.\n\nCave 17 has thirty major murals. depict Buddha in various forms and postures – Vipasyi, Sikhi, Visvbhu, Krakuchchanda, Kanakamuni, Kashyapa and Sakyamuni. Also depicted are Avalokitesvara, the story of Udayin and Gupta, the story of Nalagiri, the Wheel of life, a panel celebrating various ancient Indian musicians and a panel that tells of Prince Simhala’s expedition to Sri Lanka. The narrative frescos depict the various Jataka tales such as the Shaddanta, Hasti, Hamsa, Vessantara, Sutasoma, Mahakapi (in two versions), Sarabhamiga, Machchha, Matiposaka, Shyama, Mahisha, Valahassa, Sibi, Ruru and Nigrodamiga Jatakas. The depictions weave in the norms of the early 1st millennium culture and the society. They show themes as diverse as a shipwreck, a princess applying makeup, lovers in scenes of dalliance, and a wine drinking scene of a couple with the woman and man amorously seated. Some frescos attempt to show the key characters from various parts of a Jataka tale by co-depicting animals and attendants in the same scene.\n\nCave 18 is a small rectangular space (3.38 X 11.66 m) with two octagonal pillars and it joins into another cell. Its role is unclear.\n\nCave 19 is a worship hall (chaitya griha, 16.05 X 7.09 m) datable to the fifth century CE. The hall shows painted Buddha, depicted in different postures. This worship hall is now visited through what was previously a carved room. The presence of this room before the hall suggests that the original plan included a mandala style courtyard for devotees to gather and wait, an entrance and facade to this courtyard, all of whose ruins are now lost to history. Cave 19 is one of the caves known for its sculpture. It includes Naga figures with a serpent canopy protecting the Buddha, similar to those found for spiritual icons in the ancient Jain and Hindu traditions. It includes Yaksha dvarapala (guardian) images on the side of its \"vatayana\" (arches), flying couples, sitting Buddha, standing Buddhas and evidence that its ceiling was once painted.\n\nThe Cave 19 drew upon on the plan and experimentation in Cave 9. It made a major departure from the earlier Hinayana tradition, by carving a Buddha into the stupa, a decision that states Spink must have come from \"the highest levels\" in the 5th-century Mahayana Buddhist establishment because the king and dynasty that built this cave was from the Shaivism Hindu tradition. Cave 19 excavation and stupa was likely in place by 467 CE, and its finishing and artistic work continued into the early 470s, but it too was an incomplete cave when it was dedicated in 471 CE.\n\nThe entrance facade of the Cave 19 worship hall is ornate. Two round pillars with fluted floral patterns and carved garlands support a porch. Its capital is an inverted lotus connecting to an amalaka. To its left is standing Buddha in \"varada hasta mudra\" with a devotee prostrating at his feet. On right is a relief of woman with one hand holding a pitcher and other touching her chin. Above is a seated Buddha in meditating mudra. Towards the right of the entrance is the \"Mother and Child\" sculpture. A figure with begging bowl is the Buddha, watching him are his wife and son.\n\nThe worship hall is apsidal, with 15 pillars dividing it into two side aisles and one nave. The round pillars have floral reliefs and a fluted shaft topped with Buddha in its capitals. Next to the Buddha in the capitals are elephants, horses and flying apsara friezes found elsewhere in India, reflecting the style of the Gupta Empire artwork. According to Sharma, the similarities at the Karla caves Great Chaitya, built in the 2nd century CE, suggest that Cave 19 may have been modeled after it.\n\nThe walls and the ceiling of the side aisles inside the worship hall are covered with paintings. These show the Buddha, flowers, and in the left aisle the \"Mother and Child\" legend again.\n\nCave 20 is a monastery hall (16.2 X 17.91 m) from the 5th century. Its construction, states Spink, was started in the 460s by king Upendragupta, with his expressed desire \"to make the great tree of religious merit grow\". The work on Cave 20 was pursued in parallel with other caves. Cave 20 has exquisite detailing, states Spink, but it was relatively lower on priority than Caves 17 and 19. The work on Cave 20 was intermittently stopped and then continued in the following decade.\n\nThe vihara consists of a sanctum, four cells for monks and a pillared verandah with two stone cut windows for light. Prior to entering the main hall, on the left of veranda are two Buddhas carved above the window and side cell. The ceiling of the main hall has remnants of painting. The sanctum Buddha is in preaching posture. The cave is known for the sculpture showing seven Buddhas with attendants on its lintel. The cave has a dedicatory Sanskrit inscription in Brahmi script in its verandah, and it calls the cave as a \"mandapa\".\n\nMany of the figural and ornamental carvings in Cave 20 are similar to Cave 19, and to a lesser degree to those found in Cave 17. This may be because the same architects and artisans were responsible for the evolution of the three caves. The door frames in Cave 20 are quasi-structural, something unique at the Ajanta site. The decorations are also innovative in Cave 20, such as one showing the Buddha seated against two pillows and \"a richly laden mango tree behind him\", states Spink.\n\nCave 21, 22, 23 and 24 are all monasteries, representing the final phases of Ajanta's construction. Cave 21 is a hall (28.56 X 28.03 m) with twelve rock cut rooms for monks, a sanctum, twelve pillared and pilastered verandah. The carvings on the pilaster include those of animals and flowers. The pillars feature reliefs of apsaras, Nagaraja and Nagarani, as well as devotees bowing with the namaste mudra. The hall shows evidence that it used to be completely painted. The sanctum Buddha is shown in preaching posture.\n\nCave 22 is a small vihara (12.72 X 11.58 m) with a narrow veranda and four unfinished cells. It is excavated at a higher level and has to be reached by a flight of steps. Inside, the Buddha is seated in pralamba-padasana. The painted figures in Cave 22 show Manushi-Buddhas with Maitreya. A pilaster on the left side of the Cave 22 veranda has a Sanskrit prose inscription. It is damaged in parts, and the legible parts state that this is a \"meritorious gift of a mandapa by Jayata\", calling Jayata's family as \"a great Upasaka\", and ending the inscription with \"may the merit of this be for excellent knowledge to all sentient beings, beginning with father and mother\".\n\nThe Cave 23 is also unfinished, consisting of a hall (28.32 X 22.52 m) but a design similar to Cave 21. The cave differs in its pillar decorations and the naga doorkeepers.\nCave 24 is like Cave 21, unfinished but much larger. It features the second largest monastery hall (29.3 X 29.3 m) after Cave 4. The cave 24 monastery has been important to scholarly studies of the site because it shows how multiple crews of workers completed their objectives in parallel. The cell construction began as soon as the aisle had been excavated and while the main hall and sanctum were under construction. The construction of Cave 24 was planned in 467 CE, but likely started in 475 CE, with support from Buddhabhadra, then abruptly ended in 477 with the sponsor king Harisena's death.\n\nCave 24 is significant in having one of the most complex capitals on a pillar at the Ajanta site, an indication of how the artists excelled and continuously improved their sophistication as they worked with the rock inside the cave. The artists carved fourteen complex miniature figures on the central panel of the right center porch pillar, while working in dim light in a cramped cave space. The medallion reliefs in Cave 24 similarly show loving couples and anthropomorphic arts, rather than flowers of earlier construction. Cave 24's sanctum has a seated Buddha in pralamba-padasana.\n\nCave 25 is a monastery. Its hall (11.37 X 12.24 m) is similar to other monasteries, but has no sanctum, includes an enclosed courtyard and is excavated at an upper level.\n\nCave 26 is a worship hall (chaityagriha, 25.34 X 11.52 m) similar in plan to Cave 19, but much larger and with elements of a vihara design. An inscription states that a monk Buddhabhadra and his friend minister serving king of Asmaka gifted this vast cave. The inscription includes a vision statement and the aim to make \"a memorial on the mountain that will endure for as long as the moon and the sun continue\", translates Walter Spink. It is likely that the builders focussed on sculpture, rather than paintings, in Cave 26 because they believed stone sculpture will far more endure than paintings on the wall.\n\nThe cave drew upon the experiences in building Cave 10, with attached wings similar to the ancient Cave 12 Hinayana-style vihara. The Cave 26 complex has two upper stories and it shows evidence that four wings of the cave were planned, but these were abandoned and only the carved Buddhas on the right and left wall were completed.\n\nAt the center of the apse is a rock-cut stupa. The stupa has an image of the Buddha on its front, 18 panels on its base, 18 panels above these, a three tiered \"torana\" above him, and apsaras are carved on the \"anda\" (hemispherical egg) stupa. On top of the dagoba is a nine tiered \"harmika\", a symbolism for the nine saṃsāra (Buddhism) heavens in Mahayana cosmology. The walls, pillars, brackets and the triforium are extensively carved with Buddhist themes. Many of the wall reliefs and images in this cave were badly damaged, and have been restored as a part of the site conservation efforts.\n\nBetween cave 26 and its left wing, there is an inscription by a courtier of Rashtrakuta Nanaraj (who is mentioned in the Multai and Sangaloda plates), from late 7th or early 8th century. It is the last inscription in Ajanta.\n\nCave 27 is a monastery and it may have been planned as an attachment to Cave 26. It is damaged two storeys, with the upper level partially collapsed. Its plan is similar to other monasteries. Cave 28 is an unfinished monastery, partially excavated, at the westernmost end of the Ajanta complex and barely accessible.\n\nCave 29 is an unfinished monastery at the highest level of the Ajanta complex, apparently unnoticed when the initial numbering system was established, and physically located between Caves 20 and 21.\n\nIn 1956, a landslide covered the footpath leading to Cave 16. In the attempts to clear and restore the walkway, a small aperture and votive stupa were noticed in the debris by the workers, in a location near the stream bed. Further tracing and excavations led to a previously unknown Hinayana monastery cave dated to the 2nd and 1st century BCE. Cave 30 may actually be the oldest cave of the Ajanta complex. It is a 3.66 m x 3.66 m cave with three cells, each with two stone beds and stone pillows on the side of each cell. The cell door lintels show lotus and garland carvings. The cave has two inscriptions in an unknown script. It also has a platform on its veranda with a fine view of the river ravine below and the forest cover. According to Gupte and Mahajan, this cave may have been closed at some point with large carefully carved pieces as it distracted the entrance view of Cave 16.\n\nOver 80% of the Ajanta caves were \"vihara\" (temporary traveler residences, monasteries). The designers and artisans who built these caves included facilities for collecting donations and storing grains and food for the visitors and monks. Many of the caves include large repositories cut into the floor. The largest storage spaces are found, states Spink, in the \"very commodious recesses in the shrines of both Ajanta Cave Lower 6 and Cave 11\". These caves were probably chosen because of their relative convenience and the security they offered due to their higher level. The choice of integrating covered vaults cut into the floor may have been driven by the need to provide sleeping space and logistical ease.\n\nThe paintings have deteriorated significantly since they were rediscovered, and a number of 19th-century copies and drawings are important for a complete understanding of the works. A number of attempts to copy the Ajanta paintings began in the 19th-century for European and Japanese museums. Some of these works have later been lost in natural and fire disasters. In 1846 for example, Major Robert Gill, an Army officer from Madras Presidency and a painter, was appointed by the Royal Asiatic Society to make copies of the frescos on the cave walls. Gill worked on his painting at the site from 1844 to 1863. He made 27 copies of large sections of murals, but all but four were destroyed in a fire at the Crystal Palace in London in 1866, where they were on display. Gill returned to the site, and recommenced his labours, replicating the murals until his death in 1875.\nAnother attempt was made in 1872 when the Bombay Presidency commissioned John Griffiths to work with his students to make copies of Ajanta paintings, again for shipping to England. They worked on this for thirteen years and some 300 canvases were produced, many of which were displayed at the Imperial Institute on Exhibition Road in London, one of the forerunners of the Victoria and Albert Museum. But in 1885 another fire destroyed over a hundred of the paintings in storage in a wing of the museum. The V&A still has 166 paintings surviving from both sets, though none have been on permanent display since 1955. The largest are some 3 × 6 metres. A conservation project was undertaken on about half of them in 2006, also involving the University of Northumbria. Griffith and his students had unfortunately painted many of the paintings with \"cheap varnish\" in order to make them easier to see, which has added to the deterioration of the originals, as has, according to Spink and others, recent cleaning by the ASI.\nA further set of copies were made between 1909 and 1911 by Christiana Herringham (Lady Herringham) and a group of students from the Calcutta School of Art that included the future Indian Modernist painter Nandalal Bose. The copies were published in full colour as the first publication of London's fledgling India Society. More than the earlier copies, these aimed to fill in holes and damage to recreate the original condition rather than record the state of the paintings as she was seeing them. According to one writer, unlike the paintings created by her predecessors Griffiths and Gill, whose copies were influenced by British Victorian styles of painting, those of the Herringham expedition preferred an 'Indian Renascence' aesthetic of the type pioneered by Abanindranath Tagore.\n\nEarly photographic surveys were made by Robert Gill, who learnt to use a camera from about 1856, and whose photos, including some using stereoscopy, were used in books by him and Fergusson (many are available online from the British Library), then Victor Goloubew in 1911 and E.L. Vassey, who took the photos in the four volume study of the caves by Ghulam Yazdani (published 1930–1955).\nSome slightly creative copies of Ajanta frescos, especially the painting of the Adoration of the Buddha from the shrine antechamber of Cave 17, were commissioned by Thomas Holbein Hendley (1847-1917) for the decoration of the walls of the hall of the Albert Hall Museum, Jaipur, India. He had the work painted by a local artist variously named Murli or Murali. The museum was opened to the public in 1887. This work is otherwise presented as characteristic of the end of the 19th century.\n\nAnother attempt to make copies of the murals was made by the Japanese artist Arai Kampō (荒井寛方:1878–1945) after being invited by Rabindranath Tagore to India to teach Japanese painting techniques. He worked on making copies with tracings on Japanese paper from 1916 to 1918 and his work was conserved at Tokyo Imperial University until the materials perished during the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake.\n\nThe Ajanta cave arts are a window into the culture, society and religiosity of the native population of India between the 2nd century BCE and 5th century CE. Different scholars have variously interpreted them from the perspective of gender studies, history, sociology, and the anthropology of South Asia. The dress, the jewelry, the gender relations, the social activities depicted showcase at least a lifestyle of the royalty and elite, and in others definitely the costumes of the common man, monks and rishi depicted therein. They shine \"light on life in India\" around mid 1st millennium CE.\n\nThe Ajanta artworks provide a contrast between the spiritual life of monks who had given up all materialistic possessions versus the sensual life of those it considered materialistic, luxurious, symbols of wealth, leisurely and high fashion. Many frescos show scenes from shops, festivals, jesters at processions, palaces and performance art pavilions. These friezes share themes and details of those found in Bharhut, Sanchi, Amaravati, Ellora, Bagh, Aihole, Badami and other archaeological sites in India. Ajanta caves contributes to visual and descriptive sense of the ancient and early medieval Indian culture and artistic traditions, particularly those around the Gupta Empire era period.\n\nThe early colonial era description of Ajanta caves was largely orientalist and critical, inconsistent with the Victorian values and stereotyping. According to William Dalrymple, the themes and arts in the Ajanta caves were puzzling to the 19th century Orientalists. Lacking the Asian cultural heritage and framework that sees \"nothing odd in the juxtaposition of monk and dancing girl\", and with no knowledge of Jataka Tales or equivalent Indian fables, they could not comprehend it. They projected their own views and assumptions, calling it something that lacks reason and rationale, something that is meaningless crude representation of royalty and foreigners with mysticism and sensuousness. The 19th-century views and interpretations of the Ajanta Caves were conditioned by ideas and assumptions in the colonial mind, saw what they wanted to see.\n\nTo many who are unaware of the premises of Indian religions in general, and Buddhism in particular, the significance of Ajanta Caves has been like rest of Indian art. According to Richard Cohen, Ajanta Caves to them has been yet another example of \"worship this stock, or that stone, or monstrous idol\". In contrast, to the Indian mind and the larger Buddhist community, it is everything that art ought to be, the religious and the secular, the spiritual and the social fused to enlightened perfection.\n\nAccording to Walter Spink – one of the most respected Art historians on Ajanta, these caves were by 475 CE a much revered site to the Indians, with throngs of \"travelers, pilgrims, monks and traders\". The site was vastly transformed into its current form in just 20 years, between early 460 CE to early 480 CE, by regional architects and artisans. This accomplishment, states Spink, makes Ajanta, \"one of the most remarkable creative achievements in man's history\".\n\nThe Ajanta Caves painting are a significant source of socio-economic information in ancient India, particularly in relation to the interactions of India with foreign cultures at the time most of the paintings were made, in the 5th century CE. Depictions of foreigners abound: according to Spink, \"Ajanta’s paintings are filled with such foreign types.\" They have sometimes been a source of misinterpretation as in the so-called \"Persian Embassy Scene\". These foreigners may reflect the Sassanian merchants, visitors and the flourishing trade routes of the day.\n\n\nCave 1, for example, shows a mural fresco with characters with foreigner faces or dresses, the so-called \"Persian Embassy Scene\". This scene is located at the right of the entrance door upon entering the hall. According to Spink, James Fergusson, a 19th-century architectural historian, had decided that this scene corresponded to the Persian ambassador in 625 CE to the court of the Hindu Chalukya king Pulakeshin II. An alternate theory has been that the fresco represents a Hindu ambassador visiting the Persian king Khusrau II in 625 CE, a theory that Fergusson disagreed with. These assumptions by colonial British era art historians, state Spink and other scholars, has been responsible for wrongly dating this painting to the 7th century, when in fact this reflects an incomplete Harisena-era painting of a Jataka tale (the Mahasudarsana jataka) with the representation of trade between India and distant lands such as Sassanian near East that was common by the 5th century.\n\nThe Cave 1 has several frescos with characters with foreigner faces or dresses. Similar depictions are found in the paintings of Cave 17. Such murals, states Pia Brancaccio, suggest a prosperous and multicultural society in 5th-century India active in international trade. These also suggest that this trade was economically important enough to the Deccan region that the artists chose to include it with precision.\n\nAdditional evidence of international trade includes the use of the blue lapis lazuli pigment to depict foreigners in the Ajanta paintings, which must have been imported from Afghanistan or Iran. It also suggests, states Branacaccio, that the Buddhist monastic world was closely connected with trading guilds and the court culture in this period. A small number of scenes show foreigners drinking wine in Caves 1 and 2. Some show foreign Near East kings with wine and their retinue which presumably add to the \"general regal emphasis\" of the cave. According to Brancaccio, the Ajanta paintings show a variety of colorful, delicate textiles and women making cotton. Textile probably was one of the major exports to foreign lands, along with gems. These were exported first through the Red Sea, and later through the Persian Gulf, thereby bringing a period of economic and cultural exchange between the Indians, the Sasanian Empire and the Persian merchants before Islam was founded in the Arabian peninsula.\nWhile scholars generally agree that these murals confirm trade and cultural connections between India and Sassanian west, their specific significance and interpretation varies. Brancaccio, for example, suggests that the ship and jars in them probably reflect foreign ships carrying wine imported to India. In contrast, Schlinghoff interprets the jars to be holding water, and ships shown as Indian ships used in international trade.\n\nSimilar depictions are found in the paintings of Cave 17, but this time in direct relation to the worship of the Buddha. In Cave 17, a painting of the Buddha descending from the Trayastrimsa Heaven shows he being attended by many foreigners. Many foreigners in this painting are thus shown as listeners to the Buddhist Dharma. The ethnic diversity is depicted in the painting in the clothes (kaftans, Sasanian helmets, round caps), haridos and skin colors. In the Visvantara Jataka of Cave 17, according to Brancaccio, the scene probably shows a servant from Central Asia holding a foreign metal ewer, while a dark-complexioned servant holds a cup to an amorous couple. In another painting in Cave 17, relating to the conversion of Nanda, a man possibly from northeast Africa appears as a servant. These representations show, states Brancaccio, that the artists were familiar with people of Sogdia, Central Asia, Persia and possibly East Africa. Another hypothesis is offered by Upadhya, who states that the artists who built Ajanta caves \"very probably included foreigners\".\n\nPaintings and the cave artwork have become eroded due to decay and human interference. Therefore, many areas of the painted walls, ceilings, and pillars are fragmentary. The painted narratives of the Jataka tales are depicted only on the walls, which demanded the special attention of the devotees. They are didactic in nature, meant to inform the community about the Buddha's teachings and life through successive rebirths. Their placement on the walls required the devotee to walk through the aisles and 'read' the narratives depicted in various episodes. The narrative episodes are depicted one after another, although not in a linear order. Their identification has been a core area of research since the site's discovery in 1819.\n\nThe Ajanta paintings, or more likely the general style they come from, influenced painting in Tibet and Sri Lanka.\n\nThe rediscovery of ancient Indian paintings at Ajanta provided Indian artists examples from ancient India to follow. Nandalal Bose experimented with techniques to follow the ancient style which allowed him to develop his unique style. Abanindranath Tagore and Syed Thajudeen also used the Ajanta paintings for inspiration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6171222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6171222", "title": "American Indian Religious Freedom Act", "text": "American Indian Religious Freedom Act\n\nThe American Indian Religious Freedom Act, Public Law No. 95-341, 92 Stat. 469 (Aug. 11, 1978) (commonly abbreviated to AIRFA), codified at , is a United States federal law, enacted by joint resolution of the Congress in 1978. Prior to the act, many aspects of various Native American religions had been prohibited by law.\n\nIt was enacted to return basic civil liberties, and to protect and preserve for American Indians their inherent right of freedom to believe, express, and exercise the traditional religious rights and cultural practices of American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, and Native Hawaiians. These rights include, but are not limited to, access to sacred sites, freedom to worship through ceremonial and traditional rites, and use and possession of objects considered sacred.\n\nThe Act required policies of all governmental agencies to eliminate interference with the free exercise of Native American religion, based on the First Amendment, and to accommodate access to and use of religious sites to the extent that the use is practicable and is \"consistent\" with an agency's essential functions. It also acknowledges the prior violation of that right.\n\nAmerican Indian religious practices have often been prohibited by existing federal laws and government policies. There have been three general areas of conflict. Firstly, American Indians did not have access to a number of sacred places that the tribes had traditionally used in religious ceremonies. Native American religious practices often came into conflict with the idea that American public lands exist for the use and benefit of the American people. The results of the passage of the Indian Removal Act and the General Allotment Act were the displacement of hundreds of tribes, including the Five Civilized Tribes of the southeastern United States, and the forced assimilation of Native American families into agricultural settler societies.\n\nThe second conflict was the possession by tribal members of ceremonial items that are restricted under United States law, such as eagle feathers or bones (under laws to protect threatened species), or peyote, a ritual plant spirit and restricted substance. The conflict lies in the fact that items such as peyote are integral parts of ceremonies practiced by members of churches such as the Native American Church. The importance of eagle bones for use in traditional religious ceremonies has been repeatedly cited in cases involving Indian claims on hunting and fishing rights to allow tribal members to hunt for eagles.\n\nThe third general area of conflict was an issue of interference. Sacred ceremonies were sometimes subject to interference from overzealous officials or curious onlookers.\n\nThe act acknowledged prior federal infringement on the right of freedom of religion for American Indians by denying them their First Amendment right of \"free exercise\" of religion.\n\nPresident Jimmy Carter said, in a statement about the AIRFA:\nIn the past, Government agencies and departments have on occasion denied Native Americans access to particular sites and interfered with religious practices and customs where such use conflicted with Federal regulations. In many instances, the Federal officials responsible for the enforcement of these regulations were unaware of the nature of traditional native religious practices and, consequently, of the degree to which their agencies interfered with such practices.\n\nThis legislation seeks to remedy this situation.\n\nSection 2 of the AIRFA directs federal agencies to consult with American Indian spiritual leaders to determine appropriate procedures to protect the inherent rights of American Indians, as laid out it the act.\n\nPublic Law 95-341<br>\n95th Congress\n\nJoint Resolution<br>\nAmerican Indian Religious Freedom.\n\nWhereas the freedom of religion for all people is an inherent right, fundamental to the democratic structure of the United States and is guaranteed by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution;\n\nWhereas the United States has traditionally rejected the concept of a government denying individuals the right to practice their religion, and as a result, has benefited from a rich variety of religious heritages in this country;\n\nWhereas the religious practices of the American Indian (as well as Native Alaskan and Hawaiian) are an integral part of their culture, tradition, and heritage, such practices forming the basis of Indian identity and value systems;\n\nWhereas the traditional American Indian religions as an integral part of Indian life, are indispensable and irreplaceable;\n\nWhereas the lack of a clear, comprehensive, and consistent Federal policy has often resulted in the abridgment of religious freedom for traditional American Indians;\n\nWhereas such religious infringements result from the lack of knowledge of the insensitive and inflexible enforcement of Federal policies and regulations premised on a variety of laws;\n\nWhereas such laws were designed for such worthwhile purposes as conservation and preservation of natural species and resources but were never intended to relate to Indian religious practices and, there, were passed without consideration of their effect on traditional American Indian religions;\n\nWhereas such laws and policies often deny American Indians access to sacred sites required in their religions, including cemeteries;\n\nWhereas such laws at times prohibit the use and possession of sacred objects necessary to the exercise of religious rites and ceremonies;\n\nWhereas traditional American Indian ceremonies have been intruded upon, interfered with, and in a few instances banned;\nNow, therefore, be it Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress Assembled, That henceforth it shall be the policy of the United States to protect and preserve for American Indians their inherent right of freedom to believe, express, and exercise the traditional religions of the American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut, and Native Hawaiians, including but not limited to access to sites, use and possession of sacred objects, and the freedom to worship through ceremonials and traditional rites.\nSEC. 2. The President shall direct that various Federal departments, agencies, and other instrumentalities responsible for the administering relevant laws to evaluate their policies and procedures in consultation with Native traditional religious leaders in order to determine appropriate changes necessary to protect and preserve Native American religious cultural rights and practices. Twelve months after approval of this resolution, the President shall report back to Congress the results of his evaluation, including any changes which were made in administrative policies and procedures, and any recommendations he may have for legislative action.\nApproved August 11, 1978.\nNative American tribes had traditionally been closely associated with their lands, and their religious practices and beliefs were based in specific geographic areas. \"Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association (1988)\" is a landmark case in the Supreme Court's decisions affecting Native American religion under the AIRFA. The bureaucratic decisions to alter land sites implemented by the Court on this case, constitute invasions of tribal self-understanding. This case helped to prove that the dissipation of tribal identity is the consequence of land desecration. The fact that land desecration is allowed to happen so easily is a result of the absence of enforcement and stability within the terms of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act.\n\nThe Forest Service wanted to build a road that went directly through the sacred lands of the Yurok, Tolowa, and Karok tribes. Under \"Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association\", in 1988 the tribe filed suit against the government for denying their rights to religious freedom under the first amendment by ruling in favor of the United States Forest Service. Tribal leaders testified that the road would destroy parts of the pristine mountains and high country that the tribes considered sacred and essential to their religious beliefs and practices. They expressed their concerns in court, outlining the burden imposed upon their religious freedom. However, the court determined that, because the tribes had not stated a requisite \"legal\" burden on those rights, that they could not receive protection under the AIRFA.\n\nThe Theodoratus Report was a comprehensive study prompted by the American Indian Religious Freedom Act during \"Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Ass'n\" (1988) and conducted by the United States Forest Service in order to evaluate policies and procedures to protect Native American religious cultural rights and practices. This study was done in order to provide definitive information on the effects of the Forest Service's actions on Native American religious culture in high country. This study was completed in April 1979 and was titled \"Cultural Resources of the Chimney Rock Section, Gasquet-Orleans Road, Six Rivers National Forest\" and was written by Dr. Dorothea J. Theodoratus, Dr. Joseph L. Chartkoff, and Ms. Kerry K. Chartkoff. It was a compilation of ethnographic, archaeological and historical data that identified the culture contained in the area that the Forest Service proposed to be the site of the Chimney Rock Section of the Gasquet-Orleans Road. This culture belonged to the Yurok, Karok, and Tolowa peoples.\n\nIn its final recommendations, the report criticizes the Forest Service for ignorance of the physical and historical significance and religious importance of the site proposed for road construction. The report warned the Forest Service against the ruinous impact of road construction, and its logging and mining operations. It said the philosophy that high country is solely a natural resource to be managed and improved was at fault. The report traced the long history of this site as sacred to succeeding cultures of indigenous peoples, whose connection could be documented from prehistory. The report stated that the only appropriate management of such land should be its preservation in a natural state.\n\nThe Theodoratus Report, in effect, established a guideline by which the Forest Service would be able to understand the importance of land to Native American culture. Because they had commissioned the report and recognized its significance they conformed with the AIRFA in the \"Lyng\" case, but it was the Theodoratus Report, not the AIRFA, that compelled the Forest Service to follow the report's collection of data on the religious significance of the high country. However, nothing within the AIRFA prevented the Forest Service from ignoring the warning of its own commissioned report concerning the destruction of the Yurok, Karok, and Tolowa religious traditions. \nThis case's decision states that tribes have no First Amendment right of religious freedom that can halt federal land management of public lands that contain sacred tribal spaces. This decision became the standing precedent that threatened the survival of any traditional Native American community whose sacred lands, by the fault of the government's history of Indian affairs, are on public land rather than on reservations. The Supreme Court advocated its decision to refuse the countenance of the religious valuation of land as representing its responsibility towards enforcing the First Amendment rights of the Native American plaintiff.\n\nIn \"Employment Division v. Smith\" (1990), the Court ruled against the Native American Church its constitutional rights. Alfred Smith, a Native American who had been born on the Klamath Reservation in Oregon, was fired from his job at an agency in Roseburg, Oregon that helped develop services for Native American clientele. His termination was based on his attendance at ceremonies of the Native American Church, which uses peyote as a sacrament. Because it is a restricted substance under drug laws, Smith was fired for his use of it. Another member of the N.A.C. was also fired from the agency for the same reason. When denied unemployment compensation, Smith and his co-worker challenged the grounds of their terminations. Smith took his case to the Oregon courts, which ruled in his favor of protected use of peyote under the free-exercise clause of AIRFA.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court reviewed the case, and overturned the Oregon court ruling. The Supreme Court stated that they could in fact be denied unemployment benefits because by using peyote they were in violation of state criminal law. The \"Smith\" decision prompted the development of the Native American Religious Freedom Project which involved and concerned almost every Native American tribe in the country. In 1993 the Religious Freedom Restoration Act was passed, and by 1994 the American Indian Religious Freedom Act Amendments were passed as Public Law 103-344. The Amendments provided legislative protection for religious practices of the Native American Church.\n\nThe major criticism of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act was its inability to enforce its provisions, therefore its inability to provide religious freedom without condition. The act served as more of a joint resolution than an actual law. Its failure to protect certain sacred sites proved detrimental to Native American cultures and religions as a whole.\n\nThe \"Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Association\" decision represented a unique convergence of religion, law, and land, and confirmed the American Indian Religious Freedom Act as a hollow excess of words. The Supreme Court itself declared that the legislation had no firm grasp on what it stood for. There was nothing in the Act that mandated changes pursuant to the review process prior to its amendment in 1994. The case illustrates that compliance with the review procedure of the AIRFA does not provide any assurance that judicial protections or substantive agency will be offered to Native American religious belief and practice, even if the serious endangerment to Native American religion from proposed government action is recognized within that review procedure.\n\nDue to the criticism of the AIRFA and its inability to enforce the provisions it outlined in 1978, on June 10, 1994 the House of Representatives Committee on Natural resources, and later the Subcommittee on Native American Affairs, met to bring about H.R. 4155 in order to provide for the management of federal lands in a way that doesn't frustrate the traditional religions and religious purposes of Native Americans. The full text is available on the Library of Congress website. However, it never became law.\n\nIn 1994, Congress passed H.R. 4230 to amend the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, in order to provide for protected use of peyote as a sacrament in traditional religious ceremonies. This was passed as Public Law No 103-344 on October 6, 1994, with full text as below.\n\nBe it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14654392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14654392", "title": "Anna Talbott McPherson", "text": "Anna Talbott McPherson\n\nAnna Talbott McPherson (1904–2003) wrote more than 22 biographies of famous Christians. Many of these books are still being read in Christian schools, and as part of the curriculum for home school English programs. A list of Anna's books can be found here. A list of currently available books by Anna is available from Amazon Booksellers.\n\nAnna is also known for her unique pen and ink drawings, wherein she used shadings and colorings on scripted text to appear to magically form images of famous presidents and portrayals of Christ on the page. These drawings can be found in a number of Christian bookstores today.\n\nAnna was born into a Quaker home in Damascus, Ohio. She attended Asbury College during the 1927-28 and 1928-29 school years. Anna graduated in 1929 with a major in Greek and Latin. While at Asbury, she published the first in what became a series of “written pictures” in 1929. She has also illustrated and authored several books. Her writings include Forgotten Saints (1961), They Dared to be Different (1967), They Dared to Overcome (1983), Praying Parents Take Heart (1975), H. Robb French—Pioneer, Prophet and Prayer Warrior, Spiritual Secrets of Famous Christians (1964), and Down a Candle Lighted Pathway, which is based on real events in her life. She taught college classes in subjects including Greek and Mathematics.\n\nAnna married Chase Roe McPherson,(1907-1987) a descendant of Forrest Samuel McPherson. Chase was a graduate of Asbury College (1930) and Asbury Theological Seminary (1933) and became a minister (Methodist, and later Wesleyan). Anna went with him and shared his duties in\nIowa, Ohio, and Virginia. She and her husband had five children. They were affiliated with the Wesleyan Methodist Church where Rev. McPherson was Conference Secretary of Evangelism and General Evangelist of the Allegheny Conference. Anna died at the age of 98. In 1978, a portion of Anna’s written pictures were donated to the school from among the books and papers of a former Asbury professor, H.J. Hervey. These pieces include “The Madonna and Child” (1938), “The True Shepherd” (1930), and “The Man of Sorrows” (1929). Also, a brief biography was found in the Asbury College archives entitled “Story of Anna\nTalbott McPherson”: “When Anna was fourteen, the well-known profile of Abraham Lincoln emerged as she looked at the copy of the Emancipation Proclamation written in fine italic script. That experience so intrigued her that she determined to try to accomplish the same effect. In the years that followed, she succeeded by using a crow-quill pen, various colored inks for italic script suitably spaced and shaded, and an infinite amount of patience. In time, three heads of presidents – Wilson, Harding, and Washington – appeared. The latter has been displayed near the entrance of the Library of Congress. Later the pictures of Christ emerged within appropriately selected Biblical passages. Copies of all her pictures are in the archives of the Library of Congress.\n\nAnna and her husband, Chase R. McPherson, met at Asbury College in Wilmore, Kentucky, and married following his graduation in 1930. After two years in seminary for his B.D. degree, Chase began his Methodist ministry. In 1945 they settled in Damascus, Ohio, where Chase completed 50 years of service within the church. In 1986 they came to Copeland Oaks Retirement Center in Sebring, Ohio, where Chase entered Crandall Health Care unit and died the following year.\n\nAll of Anna's stories are true character sketches. Fifteen books of children’s story collections have been published, and one,\nSpiritual Secrets of Famous Christians, is now in its second printing to be released soon.”\n\n"}
{"id": "37531194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37531194", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Bolivia", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Bolivia\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Bolivia begins with references to the country in Bahá'í literature as early as 1916. The first Bahá'í to arrive in Bolivia was in 1940 through the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers, people who chose to move for the growth of the religion, from the United States. That same year the first Bolivian joined the religion. The first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in La Paz in 1945 and the first Indian formally joined the religion in 1956 which soon spread widely among that subculture. The community elected an independent National Spiritual Assembly in 1961. By 1963 there were hundreds of local assemblies. The Bahá'í Faith is currently the largest international religious minority in Bolivia. The largest population of Bahá'ís in South America is in Bolivia, a country whose general population is estimated to be 55%-70% indigenous and 30%-42% Mestizo, with a Bahá'í population estimated at 217,000 in 2005 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The sixth of the tablets was the first to mention Latin American regions and was written on April 8, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. The sixth tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\n\"His Holiness Christ says: Travel ye to the East and to the West of the world and summon the people to the Kingdom of God. ... the republic of Mexico...to be familiar with the Spanish language...Guatemala, Honduras, Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and the seventh country Belize...Attach great importance to the indigenous population of America...Likewise the islands of ...Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, ... Bahama Islands, even the smallWatling Island...Haiti and Santo Domingo...the islands of Bermuda... the republics of the continent of South America—Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, The Guianas, Bolivia, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Venezuela; also the islands to the north, east and west of South America, such as Falkland Islands, the Galapagòs, Juan Fernandez, Tobago and Trinidad...\"\n\nFollowing the release of these tablets and then `Abdu'l-Bahá's death in 1921, a few Bahá'ís began moving to or at least visiting Latin America.\n\nShoghi Effendi, who was named `Abdu'l-Bahá's successor, wrote a cable on May 1, 1936 to the Bahá'í Annual Convention of the United States and Canada, and asked for the systematic implementation of `Abdu'l-Bahá's vision to begin. In his cable he wrote:\n\n\"Appeal to assembled delegates ponder historic appeal voiced by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". Urge earnest deliberation with incoming National Assembly to insure its complete fulfillment. First century of Bahá'í Era drawing to a close. Humanity entering outer fringes most perilous stage its existence. Opportunities of present hour unimaginably precious. Would to God every State within American Republic and every Republic in American continent might ere termination of this glorious century embrace the light of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh and establish structural basis of His World Order.\"\n\nFollowing the May 1st cable, another cable from Shoghi Effendi came on May 19 calling for permanent pioneers to be established in all the countries of Latin America. The Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada appointed an Inter-America Committee to take charge of the preparations. During the 1937 Bahá'í North American Convention, Shoghi Effendi cabled advising the convention to prolong their deliberations to permit the delegates and the National Assembly to consult on a plan that would enable Bahá'ís to go to Latin America as well as to include the completion of the outer structure of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois. In 1937 the \"First Seven Year Plan\" (1937–44), which was an international plan for the Bahá'ís designed by Shoghi Effendi, gave the American Bahá'ís the goal of establishing the Bahá'í Faith in every country in Latin America. With the spread of American Bahá'ís in Latin American, Bahá'í communities and Local Spiritual Assemblies, the local administrative unit of the religion, began to form in 1938 across Latin America.\n\nA pioneer from Los Angeles, Eleanor Adler, sailed from New Orleans on the S.S. Santa Marta on November 16, 1940 to pioneer to Bolivia by settling in La Paz taking up residence at Pension Cúellar, 899, 6 de Agosta though she did not at first speak Spanish. Citizens of Bolivia joined the religion - the first being Yvonne de Cúellar - though Adler left about May 1941 and de Cúellar was born in France. Regardless, when Adler left there was a group of three Bolivians Bahá'ís present in La Paz.\n\nPioneer Flora Hottes arrived in June 1942. In late 1943 the fifth Bolivian Bahá'í and the first to take the religion beyond La Paz moved to Tarija. Maria Lijeron was a lawyer who also had a radio program. The first Local Spiritual Assembly, the local administrative unit of the religion, in Bolivia was elected in 1945. In 1946 committees with regional responsibilities were assigned - Bolivia and Peru being one such grouping - at the same time Gwenne D. Sholtis arrived as a pioneer and settled in Sucre and three Bolivians there joined the religion the same year.\n\nThe first South American Bahá'í Congress was held in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in November, 1946 and de Cúellar of Bolivia attended.\n\nIn 1947 several translations had been done or were in process by de Cúellar and her husband, Col. Arturo Cúella Echazu, including God Passes By, Foundations of World Unity, and a selection from the Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh. At the same time the first assembly of Sucre was elected. By then Sholtis was present in Cochabamba and Bahá'ís from Sucre were pioneering to other cities while maintaining assembly status.\n\nThe second South American Bahá'í Congress was celebrated in Santiago, Chile, in January, 1948 and de Cúellar was the official delegate. The congress announced the formation of the South American Teaching Committee. Retrospectively, a stated purpose for the committee was to facilitate a shift in the balance of roles from North American guidance and Latin cooperation to Latin guidance and North American cooperation. The process was well underway by 1950 and was to be enforced about 1953. In March 1948, chairman of the South American Teaching Committee, Estéban Canales of Chile, took a trip to speak in various countries. In Bolivia he spoke to an audience of about 80 people and 40 stayed for a reception afterwards. In September the Teaching Committee proposed sending a pioneer from Santiago, Chile, to Sucre: Rosy Vodanovich. At the same time the progress on the translation of \"God Passes By\" was submitted to review of the strength of the translation to a literary critic. In December 1949 Mary Binda went as the first pioneer from Bolivia choosing Venezuela as her goal. In December 1949 a regional conference on the promulgation of the religion in Peru and Bolivia was held in La Paz. In September a Study Institute was held.\n\nThe Regional Bahá'í Spiritual Assembly of South America was elected in 1950. In the face of the changes of coordination between the American and Latin Bahá'ís the Sucre assembly was lost in 1950 and was reformed in 1951. Meanwhile, the spring 1951 celebration of World Religion Day with 60 people participating was held by the Bahá'ís of La Paz. In 1952 Arturo, Yvonne and Dorothy Campbell were delegates from the Bahá'ís of Bolivia to a regional UN Conference on NGOs. Rezzi Sunshine pioneered to Cochabamba, arriving on January 26, 1955. The fifth convention for the regional national assembly of the Bahá'ís of South America was held in La Paz in 1955. A series of study classes preceding the convention was held on the Advent of Divine Justice, the Promised Day is Come, as well as the topics of \"Indians of South America\", and \"Sacrifice\". Indeed, Rezzi Sunshine began offering classes on English and the religion in Indian villages near where she lived in Cochabamba while the Bahá'ís there elected the first local assembly and a pioneer moved to an Indian village named Chuquisaca.\n\nIn 1957 the regional assembly was split into two - basically northern/eastern South America with the Republics of Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela, in Lima, Peru and one of the western/southern South America with the Republics of Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay, and Bolivia in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Hand of the Cause `Alí-Muhammad Varqá oversaw the election of the Assembly in Buenos Aires.\n\nIn 1961-2 thousands of Aymara Indians in hundreds of localities formed near 100 assemblies.\n\nAcross the Americas by 1947 members of the Bahá'í Faith had contacted peoples of Alaska and Greenland, Canada, the United States, Mexico, Guatemala, Argentina, Bolivia and Peru.\n\nThe first translations into Aymara and Quecbua languages of Bahá'í literature was done by the assembly in La Paz in 1951.\n\nThe subject of outreach to Indian populations was among the topics consulted on at the fifth convention for the regional national assembly of the Bahá'ís of South America in 1955.\n\nA cornerstone in the process of outreach began on Sept. 8, 1956 when the first Indians of Bolivia formally entered the religion and they promptly engaged other Indians in the religion - the distinctive moment for them being when they were allowed in the front door of the Bahá'í center. They were Andres and Carmelo Jachacollo (all members of their village had the same last name) and through their efforts the first all-Indian assembly of Bolivia was elected in 1957 in the village of Vilacollo, of which Andres was the chairman, speaking the Aymará language though the location was in deep poverty and the people somewhat nomadic.\n\nThis led to a general sense of excitement. During the first years of the Ten Year Crusade, 1953–1963, reports of the large conversions to the religion in Africa began to come through, (see Bahá'í Faith in Africa.) Then news began to arrive of the conversion of large numbers in Bolivia, and Shoghi Effendi began to increase his insistence on teaching the indigenous groups. For example, on May 26, 1957, he sent a letter through his secretary to the new national assemblies of Latin America, referring to the \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\" with respect to the indigenous inhabitants of the Americas.\n\nIn December 1957 a special class on the religion was held in Cochabamba, and another in La Paz in March 1958, for Indians peoples from the Huanuni area which included some who wanted to travel to other Indian groups to introduce the religion there. The school held in La Paz included Andres and several of his kin, some Chola peoples (another Aymara people) attended. The first Chola Bahá'í, Juana Topa, joined the religion July 12, 1958, some months after the school. Guests at the school included auxiliary board member Katherine McLaughlin, and Rezzi Sunshine. This group of students of the school brought the religion to Potosí, Huanacota, and Chalapiti villages and several spoke on local radio programs as well.\n\nThe second convention for the regional assembly, also held in 1958, devoted a large proportion of the consultation of the convention to the clearly expressed needs of the Bolivian Indian Bahá'ís in their deep desire to serve the religion as traveling presenters of the religion to bring it to other Indians. One result was a call for pioneers to serve in the Indian communities.\n\n1959 was a year of several developments pre-staging for a wave of enrollments in the religion. In 1957 the Bahá'ís in Vilakollo requested their national assembly that a visit from a Hand of the Cause be made to their village. The assembly arranged for a visit from a more local administrators but on May 10, 1959, Hand of the Cause, Dr. Hermann Grossmann, made the visit to the Indian village. That year a second all-Indian assembly was elected, this time in the village of Jankahuyo, in the Potosí Department through the efforts of Estanislau Alvarez, chairman of the National Indian Teaching Committee, who made the trip to the village to help elect the assembly with Mr. Costas. The Bahá'ís of that village decided to send an individual to Santiago Chile to learn more of the religion and return as a teacher to them while others including Andres would live among them for the year. Following this and the assembly election Alverez and Costas returned to the area for a five-month period where along with Andres more than 30 members of the region joined the religion across 7 locations in the Potosí Department. That July the community of Jankohuyo held an all-day memorial for the Báb on the commemoration of his execution. That December 1959 a Bahá'í school for Bolivian Indians was held in La Paz under the sponsorship of the National Indian Teaching Committee, with an attendance of thirty people. Courses on the lives of the central figures of the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá, as well as Shoghi Effendi; on principles and laws of the Faith; and on the ways Bahá'ís run their administration including a period of practice-voting for a local spiritual assembly. That following spring in 1960 more than 1000 Indians are believed to have joined the religion from near 100 locations. The first Bahá'í Indian Congress of Bolivia was held in Oruro in February 1961, with 116 Indians participating from forty-six different localities. At this event a further 22 joined the religion. From April 1960 to April 1961 no less than thirteen hundred of Aymara speaking Indians, in over one hundred localities, joined the religion and formed over twenty local assemblies. Following observing the election of the National Assembly of Bolivia, Hand of the Cause Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir began touring the Indian peoples of Bolivia. During his 40-day tour he was approached by hundreds of Bahá'ís in village after village. This was followed by trips of national assembly members in July among Indian villages. By April 1962 there was a gain of more than twenty-five hundred additional Indian Baha'is and through their contacts to Ecuador, Peru and Chile where between January and April 1962 nearly two hundred Indians converted to the religion, representing the first conversions on such a scale in those areas, though Hand of the Cause Abu'l-Qásim Faizi was urging a need for instilling a deeper understanding of the religion.\n\nIn 1958 there were two all-Indian Local Spiritual Assemblies in South America - Huanuni and Vilcollo - by 1963 there were twenty five such assemblies in Bolivia.\n\nIn 1961 each country of the regional assembly of southern South America elected its own National Spiritual Assembly. The election of the Bolivian national assembly - representative of a community the majority of whom were of the Aymara people - were (in alphabetical order by last name): Estanislao Alverez, recording secretary, Athas Costas, Sabino Ortega (first Indian teacher), Andres Jachakovo (first Indian believer in Bolivia), vice-chairman, Yolanda de Lopez, secretary, Daniel Mauricio (founder of first Baha'i school), Massoud Khamsi, chairman, Alberto Saldias, treasurer, and Alberto Rocabado. The election was witnessed by Hand of the Cause Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir.\n\nIn 1961 eight of the members of the Local Spiritual Assembly of La Paz were: Hernan Saravia, Jane Khamsi, Isaac Mamani, Lecile Webster, E. Alverez, Livia Barbaro, Morty Landivar, and Massoud Khamsi. and it performed the first Bahá'í marriage of Bolivia that year. In October the first national Bahá'í school was held on its new permanent location and the students spent the majority of the time clearing the land, planting crops and preparing it for permanent buildings in\nthe village of Meguilla. By summer 1962 there were nearly 4,000 Baha'is in 321 localities, with sixty-two local assemblies and Hand of the Cause Abu'l-Qásim Faizi was touring Bolivia where he inaugurated a school for teachers of the religion and attended a national congress. The school was established and opened with Athos Costa as its director. Courses were given in geography, history, hygiene, health, writing as well as Baha'i subjects like progressive revelation, its history, teachings, and administration across three 8 hour days with a final test and students left with their own notepad.\n\nIn April 1963 the members of the national assemblies of the world were the delegates to elect the first Universal House of Justice to be head of the religion after the death of Shoghi Effendi. The Bolivian members of the national assembly that year were: Estanislao Alvarez, Athos Costas, Mrs. Costas, Massoud Khamsi, Yolanda de Lopes, Sabino Ortega, Alberto Saldias Reyes, Alberto Rocabado, and Andres Jachakollo Ticona. In addition, the national newspaper El Diario of La Paz devoted an entire page to \"Centenary of the Baha'i World Faith,\" with text covering the history, principles, objectives and a list of Bolivians leaving for the first Bahá'í World Congress. There were illustrations of four Bahá'í Houses of Worship and the International Archives building at the Bahá'í World Centre. During that congress a similar one was held in Bolivia in Oruro to commemorate the centenary of the events of the Ridván garden.\n\nDuring the 1964 national convention to elect the national assembly only twenty-seven of the thirty-eight delegates arrived due to the political troubles and violence in Bolivia. Regardless, Hand of the Cause Jalál Kházeh presented the \"Nine Year Plan\" from the Universal House of Justice which would then cover 1964 to 1973. The goals included setting up 1200 centers and 600 assemblies, recognition of the Holy Days is to be obtained, literature was to be translated and published in the Chiriguano, Siriano, Yanoiguia, Moxos, Tokano and Chipaya languages, literature in Quechua was to be enriched and Baha'i education was to be extended to as many youth and children as possible. It was noted that the rate of people joining the religion had substantially slowed that prior year. The religion had been recognized in 1963 by the government but the national assembly was legally registered in 1966.\n\nThe now annual national congress of Baha'is in Oruro attracted some seventy-four people for which there was newspaper and radio coverage. Hooper Dunbar, then an Auxiliary Board member and later member of the Universal House of Justice, toured Bolivia in 1964 with local Bahá'ís and Athos Costos, member of the National Spiritual Assembly.\n\nThe first Afro Bolivians joined the religion in 1964. The National Convention of the Baha'is of Bolivia in 1965 was attended by delegates and friends who came from eight of the nine provinces (\"Departments\") of Bolivia. Hand of the Cause Dr. Muhájir and now Auxiliary Board member Athas Costas attended.\n\nIn 1966 the national assembly designated five Regional Institutes located in different areas of the country which would have its own director and teacher, both living permanently in the area and dedicating all their time to promulgating the religion. The students were envisioned as teachers of teachers - to be taught to help local assemblies in augmenting Baha'i life, to read and write, and establish primary school classes for the children and young people of the nearby villages. The Baha'i National School in Cochabama held a three-month course starting August 1 covering the election and function of the assembly; Baha'i teachings; and the Spanish alphabet. The National Spiritual Assembly of Bolivia met on September 3 with then president of Bolivia, General Rene Barrientos Ortuno who congratulated the Bahá'ís on their devotion to education. In the winter 1966-67 the Ministry of Indian Affairs in Bolivia issued an official circular letter stating that as the activities of the religion have \"no relationship whatsoever with politics\", that Baha'is should be accorded freedom of expression, freedom in movement and freedom in worship. However general unrest in the country prevented many assemblies from forming, though the first Local Spiritual Assembly in Beni, on the Brazilian border, and Tarija, on the Argentine frontier, did form. In the summer of 1967, Athas Costas, Auxiliary Board member, and Dr. Ouladi, National Spiritual Assembly representative, went on a trip in a Baha'i-owned jeep to meet with local officials in troubled areas in several Departments to specify the non-political nature of the religion and federal endorsement of its freedom to practice the religion. Copies of the federal registration of the religion as a religion recognized by the government by the Ministry of Justice and Immigration from 1963 were distributed to local assemblies in 1968.\n\nCochabamba was a center of a double event in the summer of 1967. First, a ten-day training course was held in June at the national Bahá'í school for the purpose of training young rural teachers in techniques to be used in the thirty proposed literacy centers to be established in Bolivia. Second, some several thousand visitors came to the first exhibition on the religion in Bolivia across a five-day period. The national assembly planned to take the exhibition on a tour of Bolivia. Radio and newspaper coverage also occurred.\n\nFor twenty-eight days in November 1967 Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum toured Bolivia. She spoke to a special group of young instructors while they were engaged in study courses in Cochabamba. She attended the Nineteen Day Feast in Cochabamba, showing slides of her travels. She gave public talks in La Paz and Cochabamba, and two unscheduled talks to the \"Associacion Feminina Christiana\" as well as some villages where she was welcomed to stay.\n\nIn August 1968 the first meeting to the newly defined Continental Board of Counsellors for South America met in Cochabamba, Bolivia, with Hand of the Cause Jaláh Khazéh and Hooper Dunbar among the attendees.\n\nIn 1969 there were about 208 local assemblies with 20 full-time Bolivian instructors and 70 to 100 who gave shorter periods of service to teaching. The plan was for each teacher, accompanied by a pioneer, to visit 20 communities each month and to find others who could be trained in practical steps of administration. A particular problem was that the population in the Altiplano was largely nomadic, moving to gather and sell the annual harvest. Many of them are away during the elections Bahá'ís hold in April.\n\nIn September 1969 the first study course in the history of Bolivia for campesino Indian women was held under the auspices at the Local Spiritual Assembly of La Paz and the Regional Teaching Committee of Departmento La Paz.\n\nThe Cúellars moved to the United States in 1969 to live near their daughter. For her service to the religion Sra. Cúellar was titled the \"Spiritual Mother of Bolivia\". Also that year Andres Jachakovo was appointed as an Auxiliary Board member.\n\nTwenty four youth converted to the religion together in Santa Cruz de la Sierra, a location that had had little conversion activity, in March 1970. In June Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga spent two weeks touring Bolivia. He gave well-attended conferences in the \"Club Aleman\" in La Paz and in the Universidad Técnica de Oruro as well as visiting among villages in the Departments of La Paz, Cochabamba, Drura, Potosí, and Chuquisaca.\n\nIn August Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum returned to Bolivia representing the Universal House of Justice at a continental conference held in Bolivia. Some 600 Bahá'ís attended including six Continental Counselors, a dozen auxiliary board members, and 39 members of national assemblies from 19 countries. It was announced that 30,000 people had joined the religion from April 1969 to the time of the conference from across South America. Coverage in newspapers, radio, and television accompanied the conference was capped by the surprise reception of the President of Bolivia for some 350 Bahá'ís the day after the conference where he mentioned he had visited Haifa and knew of the Bahá'í Holy Places. By 1971 the aftereffects of the conference showed an increase in conversions to the religion including the first Baha'is in the last Department of the country previously with no Bahá'ís and the conversion of a Christian minister who led hundreds more to the religion – all together some 9000 conversions by May 1971 with the largest concentration in the area of Santa Cruz. That was raised to 11,000 by July. The revised civil government of 1971 remained supportive of the Bahá'ís with permission for a youth conference. Facing various difficulties, pioneers who had settled in Beni strove to both to serve the sense of justice of the poor and against lawlessness in the distant countryside.\n\nIn 1975–6 Rúhíyyih Khanum travelled by boat through the tributaries of the Amazon River of Brazil unto and into the high mountain ranges of Peru and Bolivia. Thirty six tribal groups were visited over a period of six months; the trip was called \"The Green Light Expedition,\" which followed her \"The Great African Safari.\" There have also been projects developed from the original expedition - \"In the Footsteps of the Green Light Expedition\" and \"Tear of the Clouds\".\n\nIn 1982 some 1,300 Baha'is from 42 countries gathered August in Ecuador, the second of five such gatherings. 13 Continental Counsellors, representatives of 24 of the 29 National Spiritual Assemblies in Latin America and the Caribbean, and members of 21 Indian tribes from Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, United States and Venezuela attended. The Conferences were dedicated to the memory of Bahiyyih Khánum, Bahá'u'lláh's daughter, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of her death. Adherents of the religion in Bolivia had again suffered opposition in various locations, both political and religious, so plans were set for appeals to be repeated as before, this time to the civil courts circa 1983-4.\n\nAfter the period of large scale enrollments especially in the 1960s the pace of conversion slowed. However focus on service through socio-economic development began to work in a context of sustainable growth of the religion. Since its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, often in some practical expression such as by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. In Bolivia that priority for education led to extending the previous work on tutorial school programs in 1983 with a coordinated engagement across the indigenous peoples from North and South America, a Baha'i radio project, a Baha'i university and other projects. Following these projects conversion to the religion moderated but was more sustained.\n\nThrough the initiative of the national assembly a 'Yachay Wasi' Bahá'í Tutorial Center was established in Chuquisaca, the heart of the indigenous area of Bolivia and central to the area of the Baha'i population. Its main purpose was to train the teachers for one hundred tutorial schools to be established in the country, many of them in the Departments of Chuquisaca and Cochabamba. In 1984 the Wasi school gained a permanent facility which was extended in 1985 when the first Ruhi Institute programs coordinated youth to assist these tutorial schools in the country. This ongoing effort in regional training schools was lauded by then Vice President Julio Garrett Ayllón when he received a copy of The Promise of World Peace, a statement by the Universal House of Justice to which Ayllón responded that he agreed that \"world peace is not only possible but inevitable\".\n\nThe idea for a \"Trail of Light\", aka \"Camino del Sol\", occurred during preparations for the first Bahá'í Native Council in 1978 in North America. It was eventually defined as a process whereby native Bahá'ís engaged with diverse native peoples about a number of issues including promulgating their religion as well as organizing councils for the people and encouraged discovery of mutual cultural links across the native peoples. With increasing prominence of the effort a few years later a three-day training and deepening program developed plans and teams of Bahá'ís to travel to different regions to promulgate the religion among the Native Americans. These teams of indigenous Bahá'ís from Alaska, Canada and the 48 contiguous United States represented 10 tribes under the name \"Trail of Light\". Teams formed and moved among the indigenous peoples from North America into South America. The Trail of Light team then continued through Bolivia, Chile, Peru and finally Ecuador. Members of the team included three Bolivians - Sabino Ortega and Clemente Pimantel as Quechua speaking Indians, and Andres Jachakollo, an Aymara speaker. At one of the early meetings Ortega took a moment to teach the members a dance he knew while they were in South Dakota and during the lesson people came from outside the building to say that three eagles were circling the building which was felt as a moving religious sign to the people there.\n\nIn July 1983 in La Paz the President of Bolivia welcomed the Trail of Light members in Bolivia. Also present were twelve Ministers of Departments from around the country, some of whom were themselves indigenous. The Governor of the Department of La Paz also greeted the Trail members in his office, stating that he identified with many of the Baha'i principles. Other major events of the team in the capital included two twenty-minute cultural programs for the state-owned television network which were later aired nationwide.\n\nThe project revisited Bolivia and Peru in 1988. The team of travelers visited individual Bahá'ís, Bahá'í schools, made public presentations, and there was newspaper and television news coverage of the visit. The travelers included Lakotas Jacqueline Left Hand Bull, then a Continental Counsellor, and US National Assembly members Patricia Locke and Kevin Locke, along with Bolivians Eloy Anello, Athos Costas, Julian Ugarte and Sabino Ortega. Some of the activities undertaken were the pow wow \"grand entrance\" dance, songs and dances honoring the Creator, an Indian sign language and jingle dress performance, talks honoring the Incan Empire, other dances honoring women and various legends of the peoples and the hoop dance and the work of the \"Trail of Light\" was trying to promulgate.\n\nBahá'í radio developed in the late 1960s in Ecuador and was a precursor to the developments in Bolivia in the 1980s, all with the regular feedback from experienced institutions operating out of the Bahá'í World Centre with Dr. David Ruhe, then a member of the Universal House of Justice. The development included an emphasis in raising the resources and people to support a radio station in the local area of the station. The development of programming in Quechua, Aymara and Spanish languages to be used by the station was developed through a country-wide production and broadcasting program in 1983 as prelude to opening of the station.\n\nIn January 1983 a presidential decree allocated a medium-wave radio frequency band to the National Spiritual Assembly of Bolivia for Caracollo, near Oruro, to become 'Radio Baha'i of Bolivia'. Construction of the new AM 1 kW. station and its associated teaching institute were scheduled for completion in January 1984 and for inauguration at Naw-Ruz, the Bahá'í new year, the same year WLGI came online in the US. The radio station covered a region in Bolivia and Peru of over 400 assemblies. Its call letters are CP-220. The station used alternative energy systems as well as an appropriate technology setup which allowed its relative low power output to rival the effectiveness of stations with more raw broadcasting power. Its call letters are CP220 and it is still on the air.\n\nIn 1983 Bahá'ís of Bolivia were planning to establishing a university at Santa Cruz with educational extension programs for rural areas. The project gathered effort as institutions were developed to aide indigenous populations. Two institutions - the FUNIDEAQ, the Foundation for the Development and Education of Aymara and Quechua Peoples, and FUNDESIB, the Foundation for the Integral Development of Bolivia, were established by the National Assembly of Bolivia and hoped that they would serve as an alternative to politically based indigenous or government programs which were seen as promoting hatred or violence by the Bahá'ís, See FUNDAEC, for a similar organization in Colombia, where some guidance was borrowed from. One of their early focuses was the development of \"Nur University\" which was established as a Bahá'í school of secondary education in August 1984 and started its first academic year in April 1985. Nur University received Presidential Decree No. 20441 authorizing its establishment as a private university and began offering undergraduate programs in 1985 and became Bolivia's first graduate college in 1994. Beginning in 2000 the university received awards and grants and in 2001 Nur was evaluated as a \"full university\". In 2002 it was selected as a \"Center for Educational Excellence\" for the Andean region: an initiative launched at the Summit for the Americas, supported by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).\n\nA generation after Bahá'í activity in the Chaco Province had ebbed it was re-established via FUNDESIB, who encountered Bahá'ís who remembered activity from before and welcomed the new focus during a period of increasing economy distress. FUNDESIB also held the first Bahá'í oriented development conference in Bolivia in November 1987 which included representatives from most of the above initiatives. Baha'is also joined the Bolivian application of the International Year of Peace for 1986. Bahá'ís who had graduated from early schools of the religion sometimes became teachers in the successive wave of school developments. A national conference on women was held March 1989 and in various places conversion rates to the religion had again entered the rate of thousands per year.\n\nIn 1991 Bahá'ís continued socio/economic development programs with the establishment of a reforestation project which reached a size and set of results by 1995 that neighboring communities consulted on how to use the project in their own areas. Graduates of Nur University had gained opportunities to serve in a number of circumstances both in the cities and countryside. Perhaps the most prominent of Nur's graduates was the 2001 mayor of Santa Cruz, while the university continued to grow programs for outreach. Of its students, 51% have been women and 49% men. Approximately 40% of the students received financial assistance from the University through scholarships, discounts based on economic need or work-study positions. The University employs 180 full and part-time faculty and administrative staff and has an annual operating budget of approximately US$3 million, and in 2001 was the second largest private institution of higher learning in Bolivia.\n\nIn 2002, Baha'is in an isolated village help to establish a local school system. The religion had been present since the 1980s and youth had refused to participate in ceremonies in the schools using alcohol. The emboldened youth then challenged their elders on the rate of alcoholic consumption in the community and asked that the money could be pooled for a school. The effort was later expanded when the assembly partnered with other civic organizations.\n\nA national youth conference for Bolivian Bahá'ís was held for over a hundred people in 2006. Translations of Bahá'í literature into a number of dialects of the indigenous in Bolivia have been done before 2007. The government of Bolivia has taken note of the persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran in 2008.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith is currently the largest international religious minority in Bolivia. The population is the largest population of Bahá'ís in South America. The country's general population is estimated to be 55%-70% indigenous and 30%-42% Mestizo, with a Bahá'í population estimated at 217,000 in 2005 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250075", "title": "Barbatos", "text": "Barbatos\n\nIn demonology, Barbatos (, ) is an earl and duke of Hell, ruling thirty legions of demons and has four kings as his companions to command his legions. He can speak to animals, can tell the future, conciliates friends and rulers, and can lead men to treasure hidden by the enchantment of magicians.\n\nHis name derives from Latin \"barbatus\", meaning \"bearded\".\n\nHe is the 8th demon in \"The Lesser Key of Solomon\", while \"Pseudomonarchia Daemonum\" lists him as the 6th demon. He is also mentioned in \"Grand Grimoire\" as subordinate of Satanachia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41083669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41083669", "title": "Bhadrakalpikasutra", "text": "Bhadrakalpikasutra\n\nBhadrakalpikasūtra (Sanskrit; ) is a Mahayana sutra with 24 chapters written in c. 200-250 CE, said to have been taught by Gautama Buddha in Vaishali. It includes the names of the 1002 Buddhas of this \"Fortunate Aeon.\" The title of this text means the \"Fortunate Aeon Sūtra\".\n\nThe list of 1002 (or 1004) names starts with:\n\n\n... and ends with ...\n\n\nIt is included in the first volume of the sutra section of the Kangyur of Tibetan Buddhism. It is also available in Chinese, Tibetan, Mongolian, and other languages in variants that differ slightly as to the number of Tathāgatas enumerated. For example, the Khotanese version is the proponent of a 1005-Tathāgata system.\n\nDharmarakṣa, a native of Dunhuang, between third and fourth centuries had translated the \"Bhadrakalpikasutra\" into Classical Chinese. Note that \"A cave of the Thousand-Buddhas\" is the name of the world-renowned grottoes at Dunhuang.\nVidyakarasimha and Dpal-dbyans translated the text into Tibetan.\n\nThe original Sanskrit text is now lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4198802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4198802", "title": "Block settlement", "text": "Block settlement\n\nA block settlement (or bloc settlement) is a particular type of land distribution which allows settlers with the same ethnicity to form small colonies.\n\nThis settlement type was used throughout western Canada between the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Some were planned and others were spontaneously created by the settlers themselves.\n\nThe policy of planned blocks was pursued primarily by Clifford Sifton during his time as Interior Minister of Canada. It was essentially a compromise position. Some politicians wanted all ethnic groups to be scattered evenly though the new lands to ensure they would quickly assimilate to Anglo-Canadian culture, while others did not want to live near \"foreign\" immigrants (as opposed to British immigrants who were not considered foreign) and demanded that they be segregated. At the time Canada was receiving large amounts of non-British, non-French, immigrants for the first time, especially Italians, Germans, Scandinavians, and Ukrainians. The newcomers themselves wanted to settle as close as possible to people with a familiar language and similar customs. The government did not want the west to be fragmented into a few large homogeneous ethnic blocks, however. So several smaller colonies were set up where particular ethnic groups could settle, but these were spaced across the country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Meaning settlers from Eastern Canada, primarily Ontario, and mostly of British and Irish origins.\"\n\n\n\"These include French Canadians from Quebec, French Americans, and Francophones from France, Belgium, and Switzerland\"\n\"Alberta\"\n\n\n\"British Columbia\"\n\n\n\"Manitoba\"\n\"Saskatchewan\"\n\n\nSome French settlements were founded by Francophone Métis from the Red River settlement in Manitoba. Many began as Métis hivernants buffalo hunting camps from the 1840s to the 1870s.\n\n\nSt. Peter's Colony founded in 1903 in Saskatchewan was 4,662 square kilometres (1,800 square miles) in size. It included 50 townships; townships 35 to 40, ranges 18 to 22, and townships 37 to 41, ranges 23 to 26 of the Dominion Land Survey west of the 2nd Meridian. 8,000 settlers had arrived in the colony by 1910 and by 1930 it was home to 18,000 Roman Catholics. Most were German Catholics. Between 1903 and 1925 parishes were established at Leofeld, Muenster, Fulda, Marysburg, Annaheim, Englefeld, Watson, Lake Lenore, Bruno, Humboldt, Burr, St. Gregor, Pilger, St. Benedict, Dana, Carmel, Cudworth, Middle Lake, Peterson and Naicam.\n\nSt. Joseph's Colony (Josephstal) (1905) Villages in this Saskatchewan colony included Adanac, Biggar, Broadacres, Cactus Lake, Carmelheim, Cavell, Cosine, Denzil, Donegal, Evesham, Grosswerder, Handel, Kelfield, Kerrobert, Landis, Leipzig, Luseland, Macklin, Major, Onward, Pascal, Phippen, Primate, Revenue, Reward, Salvador, Scott, Tramping Lake, Unity, Wilkie and Wolfe.\n\n\n\nHutterites are German-speaking Anabaptists who live in communal agricultural colonies. They have 188 colonies in Alberta, 117 in Manitoba, 72 in Saskatchewan and 3 in British Columbia. These Canadian colonies began with 18 colonies founded in 1919. Map\n\n\n\nCardston founded in 1887 was the first Latter-day Saint settlement in Alberta. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUkrainian settlements with approximate date of founding (Map):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1712696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1712696", "title": "Bolbe", "text": "Bolbe\n\nIn Greek mythology, Bolbe (; Ancient Greek: Βόλβη) was an extremely beautiful lake goddess or nymph who dwelled in a Macedonian lake of the same name (modern Lake Volvi). Like other lake gods and goddesses, Bolbe's offspring were Limnades, nymphs who live in freshwater lakes. According to Athenaeus, Bolbe was the mother of Olynthus by Heracles.\n"}
{"id": "23708767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23708767", "title": "Buddhism and abortion", "text": "Buddhism and abortion\n\nThere is no single Buddhist view concerning abortion, although it is generally regarded negatively.\n\nInducing or otherwise causing an abortion is regarded as a serious matter in the monastic rules followed by both Theravada and Vajrayana monks; monks can be expelled for assisting a woman in procuring an abortion. Traditional sources do not recognize a distinction between early- and late-term abortion, but in Sri Lanka and Thailand the \"moral stigma\" associated with an abortion grows with the development of the fetus. While traditional sources do not seem to be aware of the possibility of abortion as relevant to the health of the mother, modern Buddhist teachers from many traditions- and abortion laws in many Buddhist countries- recognize a threat to the life or physical health of the mother as an acceptable justification for abortion as a practical matter, though it may still be seen as a deed with negative moral or karmic consequences.\n\nViews on abortion vary a great deal between different regions, reflecting the influence of the various Buddhist traditions, as well as the influence of other religious and philosophical traditions and contact with Western thought.\n\nAbortion is generally regarded very negatively among ethnic Tibetan Buddhists. Prior to the emergence of the Tibetan diaspora in the 1950s, Tibetans do not seem to have been familiar with abortion for reasons of medical necessity, and, facing little population pressure, saw little reason to engage in what they saw as the destruction of innocent life. Though no systematic information is available, abortion appears to be very rare among exiled Tibetans living in areas where abortion is legal. Tibetan Buddhists believe that a person who has had an abortion should be treated compassionately, and guided to atone for the negative act through appropriate good deeds and religious practices; these acts are aimed at improving the karmic outcome for both the mother and the aborted fetus, but authorities warn that they will not be effective if one has undertaken an abortion while planning to 'negate' it by atoning for it later. The Dalai Lama has said that abortion is \"negative,\" but there are exceptions. He said, \"I think abortion should be approved or disapproved according to each circumstance\".\"\n\nLaws and views on abortion vary greatly in Theravada Buddhist nations. Attitudes and laws in Thailand are generally more favourable towards abortion than in Sri Lanka. While abortion is still viewed as negative in Burma (Myanmar), it is allegedly also employed with some frequency to prevent out-of-wedlock births. Regarding attitudes towards abortion in Thailand, Peter Harvey notes:\n\n...abortion is discussed not in the language of rights – to life or choice – but of ‘benefit and harm, with the intent of relieving as much human suffering in all its states, stages and situations as circumstances allow’, with an emphasis on reducing the circumstances leading women to feel that they need to have an abortion.\n\nIn November 2010, the issue of abortion and Buddhism in Thailand was thrust onto the front pages after 2000 fetuses were discovered stored at a temple in Bangkok. Abortion remains illegal in the country except in cases of rape or risk to the woman's health. Following the scandal, leading politicians and monks spoke out to reaffirm their opposition to abortion laws. Phramaha Vudhijaya Vajiramedhi was unequivocal: \"In [the] Buddhist view, both having an abortion and performing an abortion amount to murder. Those involved in abortions will face distress in both this life and the next because their sins will follow them.\" Prime Minister Abhisit announced a crackdown on illegal abortion clinics and refused calls to change the law, saying that current laws were \"good enough.\"\n\nPeter Harvey relates attitudes towards abortion in Burma to Melford Spiro's observation that Buddhists in Burma recognize a clear distinction between what may be regarded as 'ultimate good' in a religious sense and what is a 'worldly good' or utilitarian act. Despite the prevalence of illegal abortions in Burma due to economic difficulty, many Buddhists consider it against their religious beliefs. A 1995 survey on women in Burma showed that 99% thought abortion was against their religious beliefs.\n\nBuddhists in Japan are said to be more tolerant of abortion than those who live elsewhere. In Japan, women sometimes participate in the Shinto-Buddhist ritual of mizuko kuyō (水子供養 — lit. 'fetus memorial service') after an induced abortion or an abortion as the result of a miscarriage.\n\nSimilarly, in Taiwan women sometimes pray to appease ghosts of aborted fetuses and assuage feelings of guilt due to having an abortion; this type of ritual is called \"\". The modern practice emerged in the mid-1970s and grew significantly in popularity in the 1980s, particularly following the full legalization of abortion in 1985. It draws both from traditional antecedents dating back to the Han dynasty, and the Japanese practice. These modern practices emerged in the context of demographic change associated with modernization – rising population, urbanization, and decreasing family size – together with changing attitudes towards sexuality, which occurred first in Japan, and then in Taiwan, hence the similar response and Taiwan's taking inspiration from Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "3115056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3115056", "title": "Butsudan", "text": "Butsudan\n\nA Butsudan, sometimes spelled , is a shrine commonly found in temples and homes in Japanese Buddhist cultures. A \"butsudan\" is either a defined, often ornate platform or simply a wooden cabinet sometimes crafted with doors that enclose and protect a \"Gohonzon\" or religious icon, typically a statue or painting of a Buddha or Bodhisattva, or a calligraphic mandala scroll.\n\nIf there are doors used, a Butsudan enshrines the \"Gohonzon\" icon during religious observances, and close after usage. In case of no doors, either a sheet of brocade or white cloth is sometimes placed over to render its sacred space. Traditional Japanese beliefs associate the Butsudan to be either a house of the Buddha, Bodhisattva as well as deceased relatives enshrined within it. In some Buddhist sects, when a Butsudan is replaced or repaired by the family, a re-enshrinement ceremony follows.\n\nA \"butsudan\" usually contains an array of subsidiary religious accessories, called \"butsugu\", such as candlesticks, incense burners, bells, and platforms for placing offerings such as fruit, tea or rice. Some Buddhist sects place \"ihai\" memorial tablets, ash of the deceased or \"kakochō\" death registers for deceased relatives either within or near the \"butsudan\". The defined space which occupies the Butsudan is referred to as \"Butsuma\".\n\nThe butsudan is used for paying respects to family members who have passed away.\n\nThe arrangement and types of items in and around the \"butsudan\" can vary depending on the sect. A \"butsudan\" usually houses a \"honzon\", a statue or painting of the Buddha or a Buddhist deity that reflects the school which the family follows, though embroidered scrolls containing a mantric or sutric text are also common. Other auxiliary items often found near the \"butsudan\" include tea, water and food (usually fruits or rice), an incense burner, candles, flowers, hanging lamps and evergreens. A \"rin\" often accompanies the \"butsudan\", which can be rung during liturgy or recitation of prayers. Members of some Buddhist sects place \"ihai\" or tablets engraved with the names of deceased family members within or next to the \"butsudan\". Other Buddhist sects, such as Jōdo Shinshū, usually do not have these, but may instead have pictures of the deceased placed near the \"butsudan\". The \"butsudan\" is typically placed upon a larger cabinet in which are kept important family documents and certificates.\n\nThe \"butsudan\" is commonly seen as an essential part in the life of a traditional Japanese family as it is the centre of spiritual faith within the household, especially in dealing with the deaths of family members or reflecting on the lives of ancestors. This is especially true in many rural villages, where it is common for more than 90% of households to possess a \"butsudan\", to be contrasted with urban and suburban areas, where the rate of possession can drop down to below 60%.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18871388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18871388", "title": "David Carlin", "text": "David Carlin\n\nDavid R. Carlin Jr. (born 1938) is a politician, professor of sociology and philosophy, and author. \n\nBorn in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, he has resided in Newport since 1972.\n\nHe was a Democratic majority leader of the Rhode Island Senate. His total period of service in the state Senate ran from 1981 to 1993. He made an unsuccessful bid for the Rhode Island's 1st congressional district in 1992. \n\nIn 2012 he made a bid to return to the Rhode Island legislature, but was decisively defeated in a Democratic primary for the Rhode Island House of Representatives. He remains a registered Democrat, but is very much at odds with the ruling ideology of today's Democratic Party. For instance, he is strongly opposed to abortion and same-sex marriage.\n\nIn addition to his 12 years in the state Senate (1981 to 1993), he has served 12 years on the Newport School Committee. He was also at one time the chair of the Newport Democratic Party.\n\nCarlin is the author of four books: \"The Decline and Fall of the Catholic Church in America\" (2003), \"Can a Catholic Be a Democrat?\" (2006), \"Homosexualism versus Catholicism\" (2012), and \"My Dear Bishops: an Open Letter to the American Catholic Bishops\" (2013). He has been an opinion columnist for two Catholic periodicals (Commonweal and Our Sunday Visitor) and two Catholic websites (Crisis and Aleteia).\n\nCarlin has been a full-time professor at the Community College of Rhode Island since 1984. Currently he is a professor of sociology and philosophy at the Newport campus of CCRI.\n"}
{"id": "38413776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38413776", "title": "Electrick Children", "text": "Electrick Children\n\nElectrick Children is a 2012 American independent film written and directed by Rebecca Thomas and starring Julia Garner, Rory Culkin, and Liam Aiken. Garner plays Rachel, a 15-year-old girl from a fundamentalist Mormon community in Utah. After learning that she is pregnant, she believes she has conceived miraculously through listening to a song on a cassette tape.\n\nIn writing the script, Thomas drew inspiration from the story of the Virgin Mary, her research on fundamentalist Mormon communities, and her own upbringing. She originally intended to produce the film on a $25,000-budget and hire her family and friends to work on the cast and crew, but when the budget was raised to $1million she was able to hire professional actors. Filming took place over 25 days in Utah and Nevada in late 2011.\n\n\"Electrick Children\" premiered at the Berlin International Film Festival on February 10, 2012, and was released in the United States on March 8, 2013. It received mostly positive reviews from critics and Thomas and Garner received several accolades for their work on the film.\n\nAfter her fifteenth birthday, Rachel McKnight, a member of a fundamentalist Mormon community in Utah, listens to a cassette recorder for the first time and hears a cover of \"Hanging on the Telephone\" by an obscure rock band on a blue cassette. Her brother, Mr. Will, takes it from her, stating that it is to be used only for God's purposes. When she discovers she is pregnant, she is convinced that she has conceived miraculously, like the Virgin Mary, through the medium of the cassette. After being questioned by her parents, Mr. Will is blamed for impregnating her, and is asked to leave the community, while Rachel is told she will be married the next day. Rather than undergo a shotgun marriage arranged by her father, Paul, she escapes to Las Vegas, along with Mr. Will, who is sleeping in the bed of the family's pickup truck.\n\nIn Las Vegas Rachel falls in with a group of skaters who live together and play in a band, after becoming intrigued by one of the boys who wears a shirt with a cassette on it. Mr. Will finds her and pleads with her to confess to having sex with someone else so that he can return to their community. Rachel becomes romantically involved with Clyde, one of the skaters, and one night he offers to marry her, saying that together they can look for the man on the tape, who Rachel thinks is the father of her child. When Clyde and Rachel break into his parents' house looking for food and money, Clyde's father calls the police and Mr. Will is arrested while Rachel flees. Remembering one of her mother's bedtime stories, she impulsively follows a red Mustang and discovers that its owner, Tim, is the man who recorded the tape, and is, in fact, her biological father.\n\nFinally, Rachel decides to return to her community. Mr. Will is bailed out of jail by Tim, who is looking for Rachel. Together, he and Mr. Will drive out to the community, and on the way they discover Clyde, whose van has broken down on the highway. As Rachel is about to be wed, Tim, Mr. Will, and Clyde pull up in front of the church in the red Mustang and rescue her. Mr. Will returns to the community and is accepted back with a confession that Rachel has recorded on the blue cassette, although she still firmly believes that God has fathered her child. Some months later, Clyde and a visibly pregnant Rachel are living in a tent by the beach and hold hands as they walk through the waves.\n\n\nDirector Rebecca Thomas was raised as a Mormon. She first researched Mormon fundamentalism for a documentary, and the religious group portrayed in \"Electrick Children\" is based on this research. She wanted to write a film based on scripture and decided to adapt the story of the Virgin Mary. In writing the script, she drew from her own experience of growing up in Las Vegas and the conflict she perceived \"between the traditions of Mormon culture in Utah and the bright lights of Las Vegas\". She was also inspired by Pier Paolo Pasolini's \"nonjudgmental approach\" to religion in \"The Gospel According to St. Matthew\". Thomas began writing the script in April 2011, after her second year of studying at the Columbia University School of the Arts.\n\nThomas and producer Jessica Caldwell, also a Columbia student, originally intended to make the film on a \"microbudget\" of $25,000. To raise funds, they created a Kickstarter project which Caldwell showed to another producer, Richard Neustadter, who donated $5000. After reading the script, he contacted Thomas and asked if he could help to produce the film with a larger budget. Thomas agreed and Neustadter went on to raise $1million for the film's production. Thomas had initially planned to recruit her friends and family to work on the film's cast and crew, but the larger budget allowed her to hire professional actors. She hired several of her Columbia classmates to work on film's crew.\n\nJulia Garner was cast less than a week before filming began. Another actor, Peter Vack, had recommended her to Thomas, who said that Garner \"was one of the only actresses I found who looked young enough, but also had a mature emotional depth\". \"Electrick Children\" marked Garner's first lead role in a film, and Thomas thought that her inexperience in acting made her \"very teen-like\". Thomas sought out Rory Culkin to play Clyde, while Billy Zane was cast on the recommendation of the casting director, who was a friend of Zane.\n\nThe film was shot over 25 days in September–October 2011. The first part of production took place in Utah, where filming locations included Hurricane and the ghost town of Grafton, Utah. The latter half of filming was completed in Nevada, with locations including Las Vegas and Indian Springs, Nevada. An additional scene was also shot at San Onofre State Beach in California.\n\n\"Electrick Children\" had its world premiere at the Berlin International Film Festival on February 10, 2012. It was screened at the South by Southwest Film Festival on March 15, 2012, and went on to be shown at the Buenos Aires International Festival of Independent Cinema, the Deauville American Film Festival, the Miskolc International Film Festival, the Mumbai Film Festival, the Woodstock Film Festival, the BUSTER Copenhagen International Film Festival for Children and Youth, the Camerimage Film Festival, the Palm Springs International Film Festival, and the Tallinn Black Nights Film Festival.\n\nThe film was distributed by Phase 4 Films in the United States. It was given a \"day-and-date release\" on March 8, 2013, meaning that it was released simultaneously in theaters and on video on demand. It was also released theatrically in the United Kingdom, Russia, New Zealand, France, Brazil, and Spain, grossing a total of $137,126 outside of the U.S.\n\nThe film received an 86% \"fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with 19 \"fresh\" reviews out of a total of 22 and an average rating of 6.2/10. The site's critical consensus states, \"A strong directorial debut for Rebecca Thomas, \"Electrick Children\" also features an outstanding performance from Julia Garner as a wild teenager from a conservative family.\" The film has a score of 60 on Metacritic, based on nine reviews—two positive and seven mixed.\n\n\"The New York Times\" film critic Stephen Holden described \"Electrick Children\" as \"neither comedy nor drama nor satire but a surreal mélange infused with magical realism\". He criticised its lack of narrative continuity but said \"the movie's underlying sweetness leaves a residual glow\" and praised Garner's \"radiant performance\". Catherine Shoard of \"The Guardian\" awarded the film 3 out of 5 stars, describing it as overly quirky but \"so deftly done it's three parts enchantment to one part irritation\". She called Garner's performance \"magnetic\", and thought that the religious community was convincingly portrayed. \"Variety\" magazine's Leslie Felperin called the film \"a sweet slice of indie quirk\", and praised the direction and acting despite feeling that the script had been \"overworked\". Writing for \"The Hollywood Reporter\", Justin Lowe highlighted Thomas's direction, Mattias Troelstrup's cinematography, and the performance of Garner, whom he described as \"a revelation\". Chuck Bowen of \"Slant Magazine\" described Thomas as \"an exceptional stylist\", commending her for avoiding clichés, and wrote that \"\"Electrick Children\" is one of the most sensible and humane explorations of youthful curiosity and alienation I've seen in some time.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\" Gary Goldstein, however, found the film to be \"unevenly told and at times too fanciful for its own good\".\n\n\"Electrick Children\" gained Thomas—at that time a fourth-year student at Columbia University School of the Arts—a nomination for the \"Someone to Watch\" award at the 2012 Independent Spirit Awards. It won her the FIPRESCI Award at the 2012 International Festival of Independent Cinema PKO Off Camera in Kraków, Poland, and a \"Directors to Watch\" award at the Palm Springs International Film Festival. \"Electrick Children\" won Best Film at the Tallinn Blacks Night Film Festival and Garner won Best Young Actress at the BUSTER Copenhagen International Film Festival for Children and Youth and Best Actress at the Mumbai Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "777814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=777814", "title": "Elyon", "text": "Elyon\n\nElyon (Biblical Hebrew ; Masoretic ') is an epithet of the God of the Israelites in the Hebrew Bible. ' is usually rendered in English as \"God Most High\", and similarly in the Septuagint as \"ο θεος ο ύψιστος\" (\"God the highest\").\n\nThe term also has mundane uses, such as \"upper\" (where the ending in both roots is a locative, not superlative or comparative), \"top\", or \"uppermost\", referring simply to the position of objects (e.g. applied to a basket in Genesis 40.17 or to a chamber in Ezekiel 42.5).\n\nThe compound name 'Ēl ʿElyōn 'God Most High' occurs in Genesis 14.18–20 as the God whose priest was Melchizedek king of Salem. The form appears again almost immediately in verse 22, used by Abraham in an oath to the King of Sodom. In this verse the name of God also occurs in apposition to Ēl ʿElyōn in the Masoretic text but is absent in the Samaritan version, in the Septuagint translation, and in Symmachus.\n\nIts occurrence here was one foundation of a theory first espoused by Julius Wellhausen that Ēl ʿElyōn was an ancient god of Salem (for other reasons understood here to mean Jerusalem), later equated with God.\n\nThe only other occurrence of the compound expression is in :\nAnd they remembered that God [elōhīm] \"was\" their rock,<br> and the high God [ēl elyōn] their redeemer.\n\nThe name is repeated later in the chapter, but with a variation: verse fifty-six says 'Elohim 'Elyon.\n\nIt has been suggested that the reference to 'Ēl ʿElyōn maker of heaven and earth' in Genesis 14:19 and 22 reflects the belief that ʿElyōn was progenitor of Ouranus and Gê, as suggested in Philo of Byblos's account of Phoenician history.\n\nThe name \"ʿElyōn\" 'Most High' standing alone is found in many poetic passages, especially in the Psalms.\n\nIt appears in Balaam's verse oracle in Numbers 24.16 as a separate name parallel to Ēl.\n\nIt appears in Moses' final song in Deuteronomy 32.8 (a much discussed verse). A translation of the Masoretic text:\nWhen the Most High (\"ʿElyōn\") divided nations,<br>\nhe separated the sons of man (\"Ādām\");<br>\nhe set the bounds of the masses<br>\naccording to the number of the sons of Israel\nMany Septuagint manuscripts have in place of \"sons of Israel\", \"angelōn theou\" 'angels of God' and a few have \"huiōn theou\" 'sons of God'. The Dead Sea Scrolls fragment 4QDeut reads \"bny ’lwhm\" 'sons of God'('sons of 'Elohim'). The NRSV translates this as \"he fixed the boundaries according to the number of the gods\".\n\nThis passage appears to identify ʿElyōn with Elohim, but not \"necessarily\" with Yahweh. It can be read to mean that ʿElyōn separated mankind into 70 nations according to his 70 sons (the 70 sons of Ēl being mentioned in the Ugaritic texts), each of these sons to be the tutelary god over one of the 70 nations, one of them being the god of Israel, Yahweh. Alternatively, it may mean that ʿElyōn, having given the other nations to his sons, now takes Israel for himself under his name of God. Both interpretations have supporters.\n\nIn Isaiah 14.13–14 ʿElyōn is used in a very mystical context in the passage providing the basis for later speculation on the fall of Satan where the rebellious prince of Babylon is pictured as boasting:\nI shall be enthroned in the mount of the council in the farthest north [or \"farthest Zaphon\"]<br>\nI will ascend above the heights of the clouds;<br>\nI will be like the Most High.\n\nBut ’Elyōn is in other places firmly identified with Yahweh, as in 2 Samuel 22.14:\nThe Lord (\"yhwh\") thundered from heaven,<br>\nand the Most High (\"ʿelyōn\") uttered his voice.\n\nAlso Psalm 97.9:\nFor you, Lord (\"yhwh\"), are Most High (\"ʿelyōn\") over all the earth;<br>\nyou are raised high over all the gods.\n\nOutside of the Biblical texts the term \"Most High\" occurs seldom.\nThe most controversial is in the earliest of three Aramaic treaty inscriptions found at Al-Safirah 16 miles southeast of Aleppo.\n\nThe \"Sfire I\" inscription (\"KAI.\" 222.I.A.8–12; \"ANET\" p. 659), which dates to about 750 BC, lists the major patron deities of each side, all of them in pairs coupled by \"and\", in each case a male god and the god's spouse when the names are known. Then, after a gap comes \"’l wʿlyn\"\nFrank Moore Cross (1973) accepts all three interpretations as possibilities.\n\nIn Eusebius' account of Philo of Byblos (c. 64–141 CE) record of Sanchuniathon's euhemeristic account of the Phoenician deities, \"Elioun\", whom he calls \"Hypsistos\" 'the highest' and who is therefore possibly ʿElyōn, is quite separate from his Elus/Cronus who is the supreme god Ēl. Sanchuniathon tells only:\nIn their time is born a certain Elioun called \"the Most High,\" and a female named Beruth, and these dwelt in the neighbourhood of Byblos.\n\nAnd from them is born Epigeius or Autochthon, whom they afterwards called Sky; so that from him they named the element above us Sky because of the excellence of its beauty. And he has a sister born of the aforesaid parents, who was called Earth, and from her, he says, because of her beauty, they called the earth by the same name. And their father, the Most High, died in an encounter with wild beasts, and was deified, and his children offered to him libations and sacrifices.\nAccording to Sanchuniathon it is from Sky and Earth that Ēl and various other deities are born, though ancient texts refer to Ēl as creator of heaven and earth. The Hittite theogony knows of a primal god named Alalu who fathered Sky (and possibly Earth) and who was overthrown by his son Sky, who was in turn overthrown by his son Kumarbi. A similar tradition seems to be at the basis of Sanchuniathon's account.\n\nAs to Beruth who is here ʿElyōn's wife, a relationship with Hebrew \"brīt\" 'covenant' or with the city of Beirut have both been suggested.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3546630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3546630", "title": "False Face Society", "text": "False Face Society\n\nThe False Face Society is probably the best known of the medicinal societies among the Iroquois, especially for its dramatic wooden masks. The masks are used in healing rituals which invoke the spirit of an old hunch-backed man. Those cured by the society become members. Also, echoing the significance of dreams to the Iroquois, anyone who dreams that they should be a member of the society may join.\n\nIn modern times, the masks have been a contentious subject among the Iroquois. Some Iroquois who are not members of the False Face Society have produced and sold the masks to non-Native tourists and collectors. The Iroquois leadership responded to the commercialization of this tradition and released a statement against the sale of these sacred masks. They also called for the return of the masks from collectors and museums. Iroquois traditionalists object to labeling the masks as simply \"artifacts\" since they are not conceived as objects but the living representation of a spirit.\n\nAs described in, for example, Fenton (1987), the Creator (\"Shonkwaia'tison\" in Cayuga, lit. 'he has completed our bodies'), having just completed forming the earth and what was on it, was walking around admiring his handiwork when he noticed what appeared to be another man in the distance, walking toward him. They soon met, and Shonkwaia'tison asked the stranger where he had come from. The stranger replied, \"I believe that I am the creator of this land, and I am walking around now admiring what I have done.\" Surprised, Shonkwaia'tison said, \"No, you are wrong. It was I who created this land.\" They bickered back and forth like this for a little while, until finally Shonkwaia'tison said, \"Fine then, let us have a test to see who actually did create this land.\" He pointed to a mountain in the distance. \"See that mountain?\" he said. \"We will use our power to move it. The one who moves it the farthest must have the most power, and must therefore also be the creator of this land.\" The stranger agreed to this challenge, and added his own rule: \"We will turn our backs,\" he said, \"and when one's turn is up we will turn back around to see how far the mountain has moved.\" Shonkwaia'tison agreed to this, and so they turned.\n\nThe stranger went first. When he was satisfied that he had moved the mountain, they turned back around. Shonkwaia'tison was surprised to see that the mountain had indeed moved, although only a little bit. \"Now it's my turn,\" Shonkwaia'tison said, and they turned their backs on the mountain once more. There was a commotion and noise behind them, and, out of curiosity, the stranger turned back around before they had agreed to it. Little did he know that Shonkwaia'tison had moved the mountain so close to the stranger's back that when he turned to look he struck his face on it. The force of the impact bent his nose and left one side of his face crooked. At this, the stranger conceded that Shonkwaia'tison was the more powerful of the two, and that he must also be the creator of the land and everything on it.\n\nShonkwaia'tison then had to decide what to do about the stranger. Because he had moved the mountain (if only a little bit), the stranger indeed was possessed of a certain degree of power, and Shonkwaia'tison thought that it would not do to let such a being remain on the earth; he was about to populate the earth with people, and to let this stranger coexist with them might not be a good thing. He told the stranger so, and proposed that he would have to remove him from the land. The stranger pleaded with Shonkwaia'tison and said that, if he was allowed to stay, he would help the people who Shonkwaia'tison was about to make.\n\n\"This is what I will do,\" the stranger said. \"I have the power to control the wind, and I can protect the people in this way. If ever a strong wind or storm threatens them, I will use my cane and block it from destroying their settlements, and I can lift it and send it over their settlements so that it does not blow through. In addition to this, I have the power to heal sickness. If ever the people are struck down with illness they can call on me, and I will help them to get better. This is how they will do it. When they need aid of me in this way, they will create a mask whose face is in my image, and I will hand-pick the men who will create these masks. The very second that they lay the first strike in creating a mask, that fast will it have my power. When they use the mask they will prepare a certain kind of corn mush, and burn tobacco. The tobacco will form their words which I will hear, and I will come. They will refer to me as their grandfather, and I will help them as long as the earth remains.\" Shonkwaia'tison agreed to this, and allowed the stranger to stay on the earth.\n\nIroquois oral history tells the beginning of the False Face tradition. According to the accounts, the Creator Shöñgwaia'dihsa'ih ('our creator' in Onondaga), blessed with healing powers in response to his love of living things, encountered a stranger, referred to in Onondaga as Ethiso:da' ('our grandfather') or Hado'ih (), and challenged him in a competition to see who could move a mountain. Ethiso:da' managed to make the mountain quake and move but a small amount. Shöñgwaia'dihsa'ih declared that Ethiso:da' had power but not enough to move the mountain significantly. He proceeded to move the mountain, telling Ethiso:da' not to look behind him. Turning his head quickly out of curiosity, the mountain struck the stranger in the face and left his face disfigured. Shöñgwaia'dihsa'ih then employed Ethiso:da' to protect his children from disease and sickness. But knowing the sight of Ethiso:da' was not suitable for his children's eyes, Shöñgwaia'dihsa'ih banished him to live in underground caves and great wooded forests, only to leave when called upon to cure or interact through dreams. Hado'ih then became a great healer, also known as \"Old Broken Nose\".\n\nTo this day, the Iroquois believe that the being protects them in times of need, redirecting fierce winds that threaten them and healing those who are ill.\n\nVarious names are used to refer to this being among the Iroquois communities. \"Etihsó:t Hadú⁷i⁷\" (lit. 'our grandfather, he who drives it away') is used in Cayuga. \"Gagöhsa\"' (lit. 'a face') or \"Sagojowéhgowa:\" (lit. 'he defends or protects them; the Great Defender') in Seneca. Ethiso:da' (lit. 'our grandfather') in Onondaga. In English, he is most often referred to as simply \"false face\".\n\nThe design of the masks is somewhat variable, but most share certain features. The eyes are deep-set and accented by metal. The noses are bent and crooked. The other facial features are variable. The masks are painted red and black. Most often they have pouches of tobacco tied onto the hair above their foreheads. Basswood is usually used for the masks although other types of wood are sometimes used. Horse tail hair is used for the hair, which can be black, reddish brown, brown, grey or white. Before the introduction of horses by the Europeans, corn husks and buffalo hair were used.\n\nWhen making a mask, a man walks through the woods until he is moved by Hadú⁷i⁷ to carve a mask from a tree. Hadú⁷i⁷ inspires the unique elements of the mask's design and the resulting product represents the spirit himself, imbued with his powers. The masks are carved directly on the tree and only removed when completed. Masks are painted red if they were begun in the morning or black if they were begun in the afternoon.\n\nBecause the masks are carved into trees that are alive, they are similarly considered to be living and breathing. They are served parched whitecorn mush and given small pouches of tobacco as payment for services.\n\nThe False Face Society proper performs a ritual twice a year. The ceremony contains a telling of the False Face myth, an invocation to the spirits using tobacco, the main False Face ritual, and a doling out of mush at the end.\n\nDuring the main part of the ritual, the False Face members, wearing masks, go through houses in the community, driving away sickness, disease and evil spirits. The False Face members use turtle shell rattles, shaking them and rubbing them along the floors and walls. The arrival of the False Faces is heralded by another medicine society that uses masks made of corn husk. If a sick person is found, a healing ritual may be performed using tobacco and singing. The tobacco is burned, and wood ashes are blown over the sick person.\n\nThe community then gathers at the longhouse where the False Faces enter and sit on the floor. The people bring tobacco which is collected as they arrive, and burned when the ceremony begins. The ceremony itself is meant to renew and restrengthen the power of the gathered masks, as well as the spirit of Hadu⁷i⁷ in general. The ritual continues with dancing. At the end of the ritual, corn mush is doled out to the assembled crowd, and everyone goes home.\n\nThe ritual is performed during the spring and fall. Other, smaller versions occur during the Midwinter Festival, and at an individual's home as requested.\n\nThe Iroquois Traditionalist Society has opposed the sale of False Face masks to private collectors and museums. The Society is very sacred and not to be shared, in any form, with those who do not belong to either the society itself or the tribe, whose members are sometimes involved in the curing rites without belonging to the society. Traditionalists insist that schools should not imitate the faces for projects. It is seen as a sign of disrespect to the Iroquois people and the False Face spirit. Many Iroquois also campaign to regain possession of masks that remain with private collectors or museums. Several Iroquois governments have pushed for the return of masks to the communities from which they came. The National Museum of the American Indian in Washington D.C. has returned many items of significant importance, including masks, and is still in the process of returning others.\n\nThe Onondaga Chief Tadadaho issued a statement online in 1995 about the Haudenosaunee policies regarding masks. These policies prohibit the sale, exhibition or representation in pictures of the masks to the public. They also condemn the general distribution of information regarding the medicine societies, as well as denying non-Indians any right to examine, interpret, or present the beliefs, functions, or duties of these societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "4539812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4539812", "title": "Fellowship of Christians in Universities and Schools", "text": "Fellowship of Christians in Universities and Schools\n\nThe Fellowship of Christians in Universities & Schools (FOCUS) is a national, non-denominational Christian fellowship based in Stamford, Connecticut, United States. Though its members live throughout the United States, FOCUS primarily serves independent schools on the east coast. It was founded in 1961 by the Rev. Peter C. Moore. The Executive Director is Dan Walker.\n\nFOCUS is a national organization that supports programs for independent school students and faculty. FOCUS invites scholars, artists, ministers, and professionals to address students and faculty so that they may investigate a life of faith, and grow both as individuals and as a community. FOCUS' national office is located in New Canaan, CT.\n\nIn FOCUS' ten areas, staff and volunteers coordinate school meetings, retreats and special programs. For example, FOCUS' Boarding School Ministry is an outreach geared to the specific needs and opportunities of the boarding schools, and FOCUS' New York City region is tailored for the many independent day school students there.\n\nThe current regions include Raleigh, NC, Richmond, VA, Washington, DC, Baltimore, MD, Philadelphia, PA, New York City, New England Boarding Schools, Fairfield, CT, Boston, MA and San Francisco, CA.\n\nFOCUS' Faculty Ministry works with faculty. It seeks to encourage their professional development, spiritual growth, and training in ministry. The Faculty Ministry provides networking opportunities, hosts an annual summer conference, and offers local faculty retreats.\n\nFOCUS holds summer programs on its campus on the island of Martha's Vineyard, in the Adirondack Mountains, and hosts service trips in New York City. Over the winter break, FOCUS provides both skiing and non-skiing camps for middle and high school students.\n\n"}
{"id": "54116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54116", "title": "Fortune-telling", "text": "Fortune-telling\n\n\nFortune telling is the practice of predicting information about a person's life. The scope of fortune telling is in principle identical with the practice of divination. The difference is that divination is the term used for predictions considered part of a religious ritual, invoking deities or spirits, while the term fortune telling implies a less serious or formal setting, even one of popular culture, where belief in occult workings behind the prediction is less prominent than the concept of suggestion, spiritual or practical advisory or affirmation.\n\nHistorically, fortune telling grows out of folkloristic reception of Renaissance magic, specifically associated with Romani people. During the 19th and 20th century, methods of divination from non-Western cultures, such as the I Ching, were also adopted as methods of fortune telling in western popular culture.\n\nAn example of divination or fortune telling as purely an item of pop culture, with little or no vestiges of belief in the occult, would be the \"Magic 8-Ball\" sold as a toy by Mattel, or Paul II, an octopus at the Sea Life Aquarium at Oberhausen used to predict the outcome of matches played by the German national football team.\n\nThere is opposition to fortune telling in Christianity, Islam and Judaism based on scriptural prohibitions against divination. This sometimes causes discord in the Jewish community due to their views on mysticism.\n\nTerms for one who claims to see into the future include \"fortune teller\", \"crystal-gazer\", \"spaewife\", \"seer\", \"soothsayer\", \"sibyl\", \"clairvoyant\", and \"prophet\"; related terms which might include this among other abilities are \"oracle\", \"augur\", and \"visionary\".\n\nFortune telling is dismissed by the scientific community and scientific skeptics as being based on magical thinking and superstition.\n\nCommon methods used for fortune telling in Europe and the Americas include astromancy, horary astrology, pendulum reading, spirit board reading, tasseography (reading tea leaves in a cup), cartomancy (fortune telling with cards), tarot reading, crystallomancy (reading of a crystal sphere), and chiromancy (palmistry, reading of the palms). The last three have traditional associations in the popular mind with the Roma and Sinti people (often called \"gypsies\").\n\nAnother form of fortune telling, sometimes called \"reading\" or \"spiritual consultation\", does not rely on specific devices or methods, but rather the practitioner gives the client advice and predictions which are said to have come from spirits or in visions.\n\n\nWestern fortune tellers typically attempt predictions on matters such as future romantic, financial, and childbearing prospects. \nMany fortune tellers will also give \"character readings\". These may use numerology, graphology, palmistry (if the subject is present), and astrology.\n\nIn contemporary Western culture, it appears that women consult fortune tellers more than men. Some women have maintained long relationships with their personal readers. Telephone consultations with psychics (at very high rates) grew in popularity through the 1990s but they have not replaced traditional methods.\n\nDiscussing the role of fortune telling in society, Ronald H. Isaacs, an American rabbi and author, opined, \"Since time immemorial humans have longed to learn that which the future holds for them. Thus, in ancient civilization, and even today with fortune telling as a true profession, humankind continues to be curious about its future, both out of sheer curiosity as well as out of desire to better prepare for it.\"\n\nPopular media outlets like the \"New York Times\" have explained to their American readers that although 5000 years ago, soothsayers were prized advisers to the Assyrians, they lost respect and reverence during the rise of Reason in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nWith the rise of commercialism, \"the sale of occult practices [adapted to survive] in the larger society,\" according to sociologists Danny L. and Lin Jorgensen. Ken Feingold, writer of \"Interactive Art as Divination as a Vending Machine,\" stated that with the invention of money, fortune telling became \"a private service, a commodity within the marketplace\".\n\nAs J. Peder Zane wrote in the \"New York Times\" in 1994, referring to the Psychic Friends Network, \"Whether it’s 3 P.M. or 3 A.M., there’s Dionne Warwick and her psychic friends selling advice on love, money and success. In a nation where the power of crystals and the likelihood that angels hover nearby prompt more contemplation than ridicule, it may not be surprising that one million people a year call Ms. Warwick’s friends.\" \n\nIn 1994, the psychic counsellor Rosanna Rogers of Cleveland, Ohio explained to J. Peder Zane that a wide variety of people consulted her: \"Couch potatoes aren’t the only people seeking the counsel of psychics and astrologers. Clairvoyants have a booming business advising Philadelphia bankers, Hollywood lawyers and CEO’s of Fortune 500 companies... If people knew how many people, especially the very rich and powerful ones, went to psychics, their jaws would drop through the floor.\" Ms. Rogers \"claims to have 4,000 names in her rolodex.\"\n\nIn 1982, Danny Jorgensen, a professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida offered a spiritual explanation for the popularity of fortune telling. He said that people visit psychics or fortune tellers to gain self-understanding, and knowledge which will lead to personal power or success in some aspect of life.\n\nIn 1995, Ken Feingold offered a different explanation for why people seek out fortune tellers: \"We desire to know other people’s actions and to resolve our own conflicts regarding decisions to be made and our participation in social groups and economies. […] Divination seems to have emerged from our knowing the inevitability of death. The idea is clear—we know that our time is limited and that we want things in our lives to happen in accord with our wishes. Realizing that our wishes have little power, we have sought technologies for gaining knowledge of the future… gain power over our own [lives].\"\n\nUltimately, the reasons a person consults a diviner or fortune teller are mediated by cultural expectations and by personal desires, and until a statistically rigorous study of the phenomenon has been conducted, the question of why people consult fortune tellers is wide open for opinion-making.\n\nTraditional fortune tellers vary in methodology, generally using techniques long established in their cultures and thus meeting the cultural expectations of their clientele.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, among clients of European ancestry, palmistry is popular and, as with astrology and tarot card reading, advice is generally given about specific problems besetting the client.\n\nNon-religious spiritual guidance may also be offered. An American seclairvoyant by the name of Catherine Adams has written, \"My philosophy is to teach and practice spiritual freedom, which means you have your own spiritual guidance, which I can help you get in touch with.\"\n\nIn the African American community, where many people practice a form of folk magic called hoodoo or rootworking, a fortune-telling session or \"reading\" for a client may be followed by practical guidance in spell-casting and Christian prayer, through a process called \"magical coaching\".\n\nIn addition to sharing and explaining their visions, fortune tellers can also act like counselors by discussing and offering advice about their clients' problems. They want their clients to exercise their own willpower.\n\nSome fortune tellers support themselves entirely on their divination business; others hold down one or more jobs, and their second jobs may or may not relate to the occupation of divining. In 1982, Danny L., and Lin Jorgensen found that \"while there is considerable variation among [these secondary] occupations, [part-time fortune tellers] are over-represented in human service fields: counseling, social work, teaching, health care.\" The same authors, making a limited survey of North American diviners, found that the majority of fortune tellers are married with children, and a few claim graduate degrees. \"They attend movies, watch television, work at regular jobs, shop at K-Mart, sometimes eat at McDonald's, and go to the hospital when they are seriously ill.\"\n\nIn 1982, the sociologists Danny L., and Lin Jorgensen found that, \"when it is reasonable, [fortune tellers] comply with local laws and purchase a business license.\" However, in the United States, a variety of local and state laws restrict fortune telling, require the licensing or bonding of fortune tellers, or make necessary the use of terminology that avoids the term \"fortune teller\" in favor of terms such as \"spiritual advisor\" or \"psychic consultant.\" There are also laws that outright forbid the practice in certain districts.\n\nFor instance, fortune telling is a class B misdemeanor in the state of New York. Under New York State law, S 165.35:\n\nLawmakers who wrote this statute acknowledged that fortune tellers do not restrict themselves to \"a show or exhibition solely for the purpose of entertainment or amusement\" and that people will continue to seek out fortune tellers even though fortune tellers operate in violation of the law.\n\nSimilarly, in New Zealand, Section 16 of the Summary Offences Act 1981 provides a one thousand dollar penalty for anyone who sets out to \"deceive or pretend\" for financial recompense that they possess telepathy or clairvoyance or acts as a medium for money through use of \"fraudulent devices.\" As with the New York legislation cited above, however, it is not a criminal offence if it is solely intended for purposes of entertainment.\n\nThe Kingdom of Saudi Arabia also bans the practice outright, considering fortune telling to be sorcery and thus contrary to Islamic teaching and jurisprudence. It has been punishable by death.\n\nFortune telling is dismissed by the scientific community and skeptics as being based on magical thinking and superstition.\n\nSkeptic Bergen Evans suggested that fortune telling is the result of a \"naïve selection of something that have happened from a mass of things that haven't, the clever interpretation of ambiguities, or a brazen announcement of the inevitable.\" Other skeptics claim that fortune telling is nothing more than cold reading.\n\nA large amount of fraud has occurred in the practice of fortune telling.\n\n"}
{"id": "16143902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16143902", "title": "Freedom of religion in Kazakhstan", "text": "Freedom of religion in Kazakhstan\n\nThe Constitution of Kazakhstan provides for freedom of religion, and the various religious communities worship largely without government interference. Local officials attempt on occasion to limit the practice of religion by some nontraditional groups; however, higher-level officials or courts occasionally intervene to correct such attempts.\n\nThe government's enforcement of previously amended laws led to increased problems for some unregistered groups. , the law on religion continues to impose mandatory registration requirements on missionaries and religious organizations. Most religious groups, including those of minority and nontraditional denominations, reported that the religion laws did not materially affect religious activities. Unregistered religious groups experienced an increase in the level of fines imposed for nonregistration in addition to stronger efforts to collect such fines. Most registered groups experienced no problems, but the Hare Krishna movement, a registered group, suffered the demolition of 25 homes as part of the Karasai local government's campaign to seize title to its land based on alleged violations of property laws.\n\nThe population maintained its long tradition of secularism and tolerance. In particular, Muslim, Russian Orthodox, Roman Catholic, and Jewish leaders reported high levels of acceptance in society. During the reporting period, the dominant Islamic and Russian Orthodox leaders publicly criticized a number of nontraditional religious groups. The number of registered religious groups and places of worship increased during 2007 for virtually all religious groups, including minority and nontraditional groups.\n\nThe U.S. government discusses religious freedom issues with the Kazakhstan government as part of its overall policy to promote human rights. The ambassador and other U.S. officials supported the country's efforts to increase links and mutual understanding among religious groups. U.S. officials engaged in private and public dialogue at all levels to urge that proposed amendments to the religion laws are consistent with the country's constitutional guarantees of religious freedom and with the country's tradition of religious tolerance. U.S. government officials visited religious facilities, met with religious leaders, and worked with government officials to address specific cases of concern. During 2007, the Embassy sponsored exchange programs for leaders of various religious groups to meet with a diverse range of counterparts in the United States. Embassy officials maintained an ongoing dialogue with a broad range of groups within the religious community.\n\nKazakhstan supports international efforts for promoting inter-religious dialogue and tolerance. Every four years, Astana (the capital of Kazakhstan) hosts the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is housed in the iconic Pyramid of Peace and Accord. The congress assembles religious leaders from all corners of the world to discuss, debate, and exchange views on theology, society and politics. Launched in 2003, the fourth Congress was held May 30–31, 2012 to discuss the role of religion and inter-religious dialogue in promoting global security and human development. Kazakhstan's hosting of the Congress, in the words of analyst Roman Muzalevsky, \"places obligations on the government to ensure a tolerant co-existence of ethnic groups and a favorable environment for religious associations.\" The 2006 Congress gathered 45 delegations, while the 2012 Congress assembled a record 350 delegates from forty countries. President Nazarbayev has expressed his desire to continue this tradition.\n\nThe Constitution of Kazakhstan provides for freedom of religion, and religious groups worshiped largely without government interference; however, local and regional officials attempted, on occasion, to limit or control the practice of religion by several groups, especially nontraditional religious communities. The Constitution defines the country as a secular state and provides the right to decline religious affiliation. The government continued to express publicly its support for religious tolerance and diversity.\n\nThe government's religion laws narrow the legal protections of religious freedom found in the Constitution. The laws were amended in 2005 to reinforce registration requirements and clarify that religious groups must register with both the central government and the local governments of individual regions (oblasts) in which they have congregations. Prior to these amendments, the government required religious organizations to register only if they wished to be accorded legal status in order to buy or rent property, hire employees, or engage in other legal transactions. Although the amended national religion laws explicitly require religious organizations to register with the government, it continues to provide that all persons are free to practice their religion \"alone or together with others.\" To register, a religious organization must have at least ten members and submit an application to the Ministry of Justice (MOJ).\n\nThe government may deny registration based upon an insufficient number of adherents or inconsistencies between the provisions of a religious organization's charter and the law. In addition, under the Law on Public Associations, a registered organization, including a religious group, may have all activities suspended by court order for a period of three to six months for defiance of the Constitution or laws or for systematic pursuit of activities that contradict the charter and bylaws of the organization as registered. Police, procurators, and citizens may petition a court to suspend the activities of a registered organization for failure to rectify violations or for repeated violations of the law. During a suspension, the organization concerned is prohibited from speaking with the media on behalf of the organization; holding meetings, gatherings, or services; and undertaking financial transactions other than meeting ongoing contractual obligations such as paying salaries.\n\nIn practice, most religious communities choose to register with the government and are ultimately successful in obtaining registration. Nontraditional religious groups sometimes reported long delays in the process. When refusing or significantly delaying registration, the government usually claimed that religious groups' charters did not meet the requirements of the law, in some cases citing discrepancies between Russian and Kazakh language versions of a group's charter or referring a charter for expert examination. Officials in Northern Kazakhstan and Atyrau oblasts were cited by several groups as being resistant to working with nontraditional groups seeking registration.\n\nAdministrative Code Article 375 allows authorities to suspend the activities and fine the leaders of unregistered groups; Article 374-1, a related provision added to the Administrative Code by the July 2005 national security amendments, carries significantly heavier fines than Article 375. Local authorities have broad discretion in determining whether to file charges for unregistered religious activity under Article 375 or 374-1. Local governments unevenly applied these laws during the reporting period.\n\nThe Religious Issues Committee (RIC), which operates within the MOJ, serves as a liaison between religious groups and the government. In addition, the RIC serves as a consultative body within the MOJ to facilitate the registration of religious groups. The RIC also provides expert testimony to courts on religious issues, reviews religious materials obtained by law enforcement officials in their investigations, and coordinates with law enforcement officials to monitor compliance with the registration requirements.\n\nAs in previous years, government officials frequently expressed concern regarding the potential spread of political extremism and religious extremism in the country. The National Security Committee (KNB) has characterized the fight against \"religious extremism\" as a top priority of the internal intelligence service. An extremism law that came into effect in February 2005 applies to religious groups and other organizations. Under this law, the government has broad latitude in identifying and designating a group as an extremist organization, banning a designated group's activities, and criminalizing membership in a banned organization. By the end of the reporting period, the Hizb ut-Tahrir (HT) political movement remained the only group banned under the law. No apolitical religious organizations in the country had been outlawed as extremist.\n\nThe elections law prohibits political parties based upon ethnic, gender, or religious affiliation.\n\nThe Spiritual Association of Muslims of Kazakhstan (SAMK), a national organization with close ties to the government, is headed by the chief Mufti in Almaty and exercises significant influence over the practice of Islam in the country, including the construction of mosques. The SAMK is the primary coordinator of hajj travel and authorizes travel agencies to provide hajj travel services to citizens. Religious observers reported that the SAMK occasionally pressured nonaligned imams and congregations to join the SAMK to ensure liturgical orthodoxy. Notwithstanding SAMK influence and pressure, during the reporting period, the government registered some mosques and Muslim communities unaffiliated with the SAMK.\n\nNeither law nor regulation prohibits foreign missionary activity. Foreign missionaries, like all visitors, are required to register with the migration police and indicate the purpose of their stay. Local and foreign missionaries are also required to register annually with the MOJ and provide information on religious affiliation, territory of missionary work, and time period for conducting that work. All literature and other materials to be used to support missionary work must be provided with the registration application; use of materials not vetted during the registration process is illegal. In addition a missionary must produce registration documents from the sponsoring religious organization and power of attorney from the sponsoring organization to be allowed to work on its behalf. The MOJ may refuse registration to missionaries whose work would be inconsistent with the law, including laws prohibiting the incitement of interethnic or interreligious hatred. The Constitution requires foreign religious associations to conduct their activities, including appointing the heads of religious associations, \"in coordination with appropriate state institutions.\" Foreigners are permitted under the law to register religious organizations; however, the government requires that the majority of the ten founders of the organization be local citizens.\n\nThe government does not permit religious instruction in public schools. Homeschooling is permitted only for children at the preschool level, for noncitizen children, for children who want an accelerated curriculum, and for children who cannot attend public schools for family or health reasons. Homeschooled children must take intermediate and public exams at a public school. Parents may enroll children in supplemental religious education classes provided by registered religious organizations.\n\nUnder the national religion law, religious training of a child shall not cause damage to a child's all-around development or physical or moral health. The laws do not clarify how such damage should be assessed or which agency would make such a determination. Current educational licensing regulations do not permit religious groups to educate children without approval from the Ministry of Education. In accordance with the regulations, a religious organization whose charter includes provisions for religious education may be denied registration if it does not obtain approval from the Ministry of Education.\n\nThe government exempted registered religious organizations from taxes on both church collections and income from certain religious activities. However, congregations are required to pay for services such as fire company protection for religious buildings. The government has donated buildings, land, and provided other assistance for the construction of new mosques, synagogues, and Russian Orthodox churches.\n\nProcurators have the right to inspect annually all organizations registered with state bodies; there were few reports that these inspections, when they occurred, were overly intrusive or were considered harassment. Where religious groups operated as legal entities, such as by running collective farms and restaurants or operating orphanages, authorities conducted health, sanitation, and other inspections relevant to the nature of the entities' operations. Authorities conducted public safety inspections of premises used for religious worship to ensure compliance with building and fire codes. These inspections also provided authorities with information about the registration status of the groups being inspected.\n\nNo apolitical religious groups are banned in Kazakhstan.\n\nThe Hizb ut-Tahrir (HT) Islamist political movement remained banned under the extremism law. Because it is primarily a political organization, albeit one motivated by religious ideology, and because it does not condemn terrorist acts by other groups, authorities' actions to restrict Hizb ut-Tahrir and prosecute its members are not a restriction on religious freedom per se.\n\nThe government remains wary of religious extremism and actively discourages affiliation with extremist groups. However, human rights observers and members of some minority religious groups criticized the government's often broad definition of extremism and its efforts to discourage affiliation with nontraditional groups. On October 10, 2006, the President signed a decree establishing a State Program on Patriotic Education of Citizens of Kazakhstan. Among other things, the decree warned against \"the increasing activation of nontraditional religious associations and extremist organizations in Kazakhstan aimed first and foremost at attraction of young people.\" The decree cited the Hare Krishnas and Jehovah's Witnesses as examples of nontraditional groups and Hizb ut-Tahrir as an example of an extremist organization.\n\nOn September 15, 2006, the deputy chief commander of the Counter-Terrorism Center stated in a press interview that the KNB was drafting legislative proposals to address so-called destructive sects and organizations. He named the Grace Church, Scientologists, and Jehovah's Witnesses as organizations that should be banned.\n\nAlso during the reporting period, the distributed a brochure designed to help citizens \"avoid the influence\" of religious sects. The Russian language section of the brochure warned against proselytizers and Bible studies and provided tips to avoid the influence of nontraditional religious groups. The Kazakh language section broadly criticized \"foreign religious confessions\" and declared that a Kazakh who becomes involved with a religious sect \"betray[s] his/her faith and motherland.\" The Kazakh text specifically warned against Jehovah's Witnesses, Baptists, Ahmadis, and Hizb ut-Tahrir. The Jehovah's Witnesses objected to the brochure after learning that public school teachers in the Pavlodar region distributed it to their students in October 2006. The RIC reported that the brochure was produced by another section of the MOJ without the RIC's authorization, and was no longer in production. The brochure was reportedly distributed through public legal advice centers, but the RIC was unable to confirm how many brochures were printed or where they were distributed.\n\nThere were reports that local representatives of the KNB or police officials disrupted religious meetings in private homes during the period covered by this report. Several groups reported that local law enforcement representatives attended their services, although their presence generally was not considered disruptive.\n\nObservers believe that security officials informally monitor some religious activity, particularly imams' sermons; however, it has not been reported that any monitoring had the character of interference or harassment.\n\nAlthough in the previous reporting period the Ahmadi Muslim community reported difficulties in obtaining visas and registration for a foreign missionary and his family, the community reported no problems during the reporting period, and was successful in extending the visa of their missionary.\n\nSeveral religious groups, including unregistered Baptists, the Grace Church, Hare Krishnas, and Jehovah's Witnesses, reported that they had been the subject of news accounts portraying nontraditional religious groups as a threat to security or society. Some of the news accounts appeared in government-controlled media.\n\nThe Baptist Council of Churches has a policy of not seeking or accepting registration in former Soviet countries, and church members criticized the intrusive nature of the registration process for requiring information about ethnicity, family status, religious education, employment, and political affiliation. During the reporting period the Council of Churches noted several court cases against churchgoers throughout the country for participating in the activities of an unregistered group.\n\nOn October 23, 2006, the Ust-Kamenogorsk city administrative court convicted a foreign citizen of violating the terms of his business visa for giving a lecture at a legally registered Protestant church. The foreign citizen was an administrator at a local university and had attended the church for many years. The court imposed a 41,200 tenge (US$322) fine and ordered his deportation. On November 14, 2006, the appeals court upheld the fine but eliminated the deportation penalty, contingent on the defendant leaving the country voluntarily.\n\nAccording to media reports, migration officials in the city of Kyzylorda refused to extend the visa of South Korean pastor Kim U Sob after he was convicted in June 2006 of conducting missionary work without registration. Kim was charged after police raided the home of a church member he was visiting outside the city limits of Kyzylorda. Kim's registration was only valid for work within the city limits. Kim was forced to leave the country on November 14, 2006.\n\nThe national Jehovah's Witnesses Religious Center reported that it had generally positive relations with the government and the freedom to conduct their activities. However, the group experienced some registration difficulties and alleged several incidents of harassment by local governments. Although local Jehovah's Witnesses organizations are registered at the national level, in Astana and Almaty, and in 13 (of 14) oblasts, the center has attempted unsuccessfully since 2001 to register in Atyrau Oblast. The Atyrau regional procurator's office maintained that the group has consistently failed to comply with registration laws. The group submitted its most recent application on March 6, 2007. According to the Jehovah's Witnesses, the MOJ suspended the registration process on March 16, and forwarded the documents to Astana for expert examination, as in previous applications. On May 6, Atyrau police and procurators disrupted a gathering of Jehovah's Witnesses, videotaped participants and seized worship materials. The procurator filed an administrative case against six Jehovah's Witnesses for conducting religious activities without registration. On June 4, the local court imposed fines on the participants. The Jehovah's Witnesses appealed the decision, but on June 25 the oblast level court rejected the appeal without explanation.\n\nIn March 2007 Jehovah's Witness centers throughout the country rented local halls and rooms for an April 2, 2007, religious ceremony, and distributed fliers inviting citizens to the event. However, in several cities, including Kyzylorda, Shaktinsk, Shymkent, and Taraz, the landlords called the Jehovah's Witnesses shortly before the event and canceled the reservation. The Jehovah's Witnesses alleged that the landlords were pressured by local government officials. In Semipalatinsk, the Jehovah's Witnesses and their guests arrived on April 2 to find their rented space surrounded by firefighters. A local government representative claimed that they needed a permit for the ceremony and denied them admission to their rented room. In each case, the Jehovah's Witnesses were able to hold their ceremony in other locations. No other religious groups reported similar instances of government interference in their public gatherings.\n\nOn January 18, 2017, Kazakhstan's National Security Committee arrested and imprisoned Teymur Akhmedov (61) who has a serious medical condition, and Asaf Guliyev (43) for speaking to others about their religious beliefs. In 2016, seven men invited Teymur and Asaf to a rented flat, saying they were interested in the beliefs of Jehovah's Witnesses. They also met at the homes of Teymur and Asaf later in the same year. During the discussion, the seven \"Bible students\" covertly video recorded the discussions.\n\nTeymur and Asaf were charged with \"inciting religious discord\" and \"advocating [religious] superiority.\" Both face a 5- to 10-year prison term if found guilty.\n\nThe Karasai regional government near Almaty continued a campaign to seize title to land used by the Hare Krishna movement. Following the Supreme Court's August 24, 2006, denial of the Hare Krishna's appeal, the RIC formed a special commission to resolve the issue and promised that no further action would be taken against the commune until the commission completed its work. Some participants described the commission as disorganized and subjective; Hare Krishna leaders alleged it was created merely to deflect criticism of the government on the eve of the Congress of World and Traditional Religions, which took place in the country in September 2006.\n\nOn November 21, 2006, with little notice to residents, Karasai district officials arrived at the commune with court orders, bulldozers, trucks, and riot police. Authorities blocked access to the commune, cut electricity, and demolished multiple homes, destroying possessions and leaving homeowners without shelter or compensation. The police beat several Hare Krishnas and arrested at least one resident who protested the action. The police attempted to bar observers from the process. The demolitions occurred without the knowledge of the RIC and before the special commission released its results.\n\nOn December 22, 2006, the commission released its decision, which did not effectively clarify the situation or move the parties toward a resolution. In public statements following the decision government officials stated that the Hare Krishnas were in violation of various land-use laws and were not victims of religious discrimination.\n\nKarasai district officials continued their legal actions against the Hare Krishna properties throughout the winter and spring of 2007. Government officials in Astana, including the RIC and the human rights ombudsman, pledged to resolve the situation through dialogue, including a possible agreement to provide the Hare Krishnas with an alternate property. Nonetheless, on June 15, 2007, Karasai district officials again brought a demolition crew to the commune and destroyed an additional 12 homes, destroying many possessions and leaving the residents homeless. At the end of the reporting period, the situation remained tense and unresolved, and the Hare Krishnas continued to allege judicial violations by local officials and unresponsiveness on the part of the government.\n\nAlthough many observers believed the Karasai district government's actions were motivated primarily by a financial interest in the land, the Hare Krishnas claimed the local government targeted them because they are a nontraditional religious community. Local officials criticized the Hare Krishnas as an illegitimate and threatening religious group. In an April 25, 2006, television interview, a local official from the Karasai akimat stated that the Hare Krishnas were dangerous for the country and \"not accepted as a religion.\"\n\nOnly homes owned by Hare Krishnas were targeted for demolition, though the Hare Krishnas claimed that other homeowners faced similar legal circumstances. The government characterized the issue as a legal dispute, noting a series of court rulings that the land should revert to the Karasai regional government, because the farmer from whom Hare Krishna followers had purchased the land in 1999 did not hold title, and thus the land had not been properly privatized.\n\nThe other big minority of people in Kazakhstan belong to the Orthodox Group. As it is widely known, many Russians lives in the South of Kazakhstan.\n\n, there were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.\n\nIn September 2006, President Nazarbayev hosted the second Congress of World and Traditional Religions in Astana, a gathering devoted to strengthening understanding between world cultures, religious groups, and ethnic groups and preventing conflicts based on cultural and religious differences. The event was highly publicized in the country, and included representatives of Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism, Judaism, Taoism, Shinto, and other international religious organizations.\n\nNazarbayev regularly made public statements highlighting and praising the country's tradition of interethnic and interfaith tolerance, and remains engaged with international religious leaders and communities. On April 8, 2007, the president gave a nationally televised address during the Easter services of the Orthodox Church in Astana, declaring that \"[i]nter-ethnic and inter-faith peace rules in Kazakhstan. We celebrate Islamic Kurban-ait, Christian Easter and the holidays of other religious groups equally, because we never forget the great truth common to all mankind: we have one God and everybody follows his or her own way to God.\"\n\nAccording to government statistics, the number of religious groups rose steadily over the last few years. In April 2007 there were 3,855 groups, compared with 3,420 in 2006 and 3,259 in 2005. The Union of Baptists, for example, grew from 254 registered affiliated groups in 2003 to 319 in 2007.\n\nThe government made efforts to promote religious tolerance in its ranks. Human rights training provided to law enforcement officers by nongovernmental organizations in cooperation with the government included information on religious rights under the law.\n\nThere were no reports of incidents of anti-Semitism committed by the government. The leadership of the Jewish community consistently praised the government for its proactive protection of the Jewish community. As in previous reporting periods, leaders of the Jewish community reported no cases of anti-Semitism either by the government or in society.\n\nKazakhstan is multiethnic, with a long tradition of tolerance and secularism. Since independence, the number of mosques and churches has increased greatly. However, the population, particularly in rural areas, is sometimes wary of nontraditional religious groups.\n\nIn mid-December 2006, the Megapolis weekly newspaper published interviews with a representative of the and a priest of the Russian Orthodox Church. Both clergymen favored tightening Kazakhstan's policy against nontraditional religious groups and called for legislative changes to prevent so-called \"destructive\" sects and to strengthen the privileged status of the two major religious groups—Islam and Orthodox Christianity. The Russian Orthodox priest stated that nontraditional religious groups such as the Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons, Pentecostals, Hare Krishnas, and Scientologists have no historical role in Kazakhstan, and criticized their \"destructive work\" in the country.\n\nLeaders of the four traditional religious groups, Islam, Russian Orthodoxy, Roman Catholicism, and Judaism, reported general acceptance and tolerance that was not always enjoyed by other minority religious groups. During the reporting period, there were no reports that mistrust of minority religious groups led to violence.\n\n\nAn Atmosphere of Quiet Repression\n\nWhy do Central Asian governments fear religion? A consideration of Christian movements\n\nFreedom of Religion and Belief in Central Asia: Trends and Challenges\n\nReligious Freedom in Kazahkstan\n"}
{"id": "25729794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25729794", "title": "General Jewish Labour Party", "text": "General Jewish Labour Party\n\nThe General Jewish Labour Party (, \"Algemeyner Yidisher Arbeter Partei\", abbreviated A.Y.A.P, ) was a Jewish socialist political party in Poland. The party was founded in Lvov in November 1931 by a leftwing group of the General Jewish Labour Bund in Poland in East Galicia, which upheld the idea of dictatorship of the proletariat, a faction of the Poale Zion Left and young left-wing Zionists. The party was aligned with the Communist Party of Poland.\n\nThe party was led by Zigmunt Stein.\n\nThe party was banned in July 1934, a move welcomed by mainstream Jewish leaders in East Galicia. Several activists of the party were imprisoned for being members of the party. The party later merged into the Communist Party of Poland.\n"}
{"id": "15197618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15197618", "title": "God-realization (Meher Baba)", "text": "God-realization (Meher Baba)\n\nGod-realization, according to Meher Baba, is the highest state of consciousness and the goal and ultimate destiny of all souls in Creation. A soul that realizes God experiences God's infinite power, knowledge, and bliss continuously.\n\nWhat keeps man from this state of consciousness is the ego, the identification with a false self. Ultimately the ego weakens through endless expression of itself in many lifetimes of experience, finally disappearing completely in full Self or God-realization. He says,\n\nMeher Baba has stated, \"The happiness of God-realization is the Goal of all Creation. The real happiness which comes through realizing God is worth all physical and mental sufferings in the universe. Then all suffering is as if it were not. The happiness of God-realization is self-sustained, eternally fresh and unfailing, boundless and indescribable; and it is for this happiness that the world has sprung into existence.\" \n\nAccording to Meher Baba, the aim of all beings in Creation, in fact the very purpose of Creation, is the attainment of \"God-realization\". A soul is God-realized when it has first traversed evolution, taking each successive form in Creation until it achieves full consciousness in the human form (the terminus of physical evolution), then has gone through successive human lives during reincarnation, then traverses the inner planes of consciousness during involution. Once past the inner planes, the soul achieves consciousness of its true original identity as God.\n\nThis experience of Oneness with God, according to Meher Baba, is not the same as simply intellectual understanding of this condition through reading or contemplation, but rather must be fully experienced. A man who reads, in Vedanta literature for instance, that he is God, then says that he is God, is in fact a hypocrite, since he does not have this experience. The goal of Creation, instead, is to achieve this \"I am God\" state as a permanent and genuine experience. This ultimate experience, for which the universe came into being and is continually sustained, cannot be described or talked about, but only lived and directly experienced. \n\nAccording to Meher Baba one gets God-realization at the hands of one Master, but for knowledge, which the Muslim Sufis call Irfan and the Hindu sages Jnana, it may be necessary for him to approach more Masters than one.\n\n"}
{"id": "1562449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1562449", "title": "Goswami", "text": "Goswami\n\nGoswami is an Indian title and surname, which also takes the form Gossain and Gosine. The Sanskrit compound Goswami could mean \"lord of the senses\" or lord of the Vedas (Go means Vedas).\n\nPeople with the surname or title Goswami include:\n"}
{"id": "927025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=927025", "title": "Hieros gamos", "text": "Hieros gamos\n\nHieros gamos or Hierogamy (Greek , \"holy marriage\") is a sexual ritual that plays out a marriage between a god and a goddess, especially when enacted in a symbolic ritual where human participants represent the deities.\n\nThe notion of \"hieros gamos\" does not always presuppose literal sexual interaction in ritual, but is also used in purely symbolic or mythological context, notably in alchemy and hence in Jungian psychology.\n\nIn Hinduism, Devadasi tradition (देवदासी / ದೇವದಾಸಿ; \"servant of god\") is a religious tradition in which girls are \"married\" and dedicated to a deity (deva or devi) or to a Hindu temple and includes performance aspects such as those that take place in the temple as well as in the courtly and mujuvani [Telugu] or home context. Originally, in addition to this and taking care of the temple and performing rituals, these women learned and practiced Sadir, Odissi and other classical Indian artistic traditions and enjoyed a high social status. Though traditionally, they carry out dances in the praise of lord, they also evolved into Sacred Marriage over time.\n\nSacred prostitution was common in the Ancient Near East as a form of \"Sacred Marriage\" or hieros gamos between the king of a Sumerian city-state and the High Priestess of Inanna, the Sumerian goddess of love, fertility and warfare. Along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers there were many shrines and temples dedicated to Inanna. The temple of Eanna, meaning \"house of heaven\" in Uruk was the greatest of these. The temple housed Nadītu, priestesses of the goddess. The high priestess would choose for her bed a young man who represented the shepherd Dumuzid, consort of Inanna, in a hieros gamos celebrated during the annual Duku ceremony, just before Invisible Moon, with the autumn Equinox (Autumnal Zag-mu Festival).\n\nIn Greek mythology the classic instance is the wedding of Zeus and Hera celebrated at the Heraion of Samos, and doubtless its architectural and cultural predecessors. Some scholars would restrict the term to reenactments, but most accept its extension to real or simulated union in the promotion of fertility: such an ancient union of Demeter with Iasion, enacted in a thrice-ploughed furrow, a primitive aspect of a sexually-active Demeter reported by Hesiod, is sited in Crete, origin of much early Greek myth. In actual \"cultus\", Walter Burkert found the Greek evidence \"scanty and unclear\": \"To what extent such a sacred marriage was not just a way of viewing nature, but an act expressed or hinted at in ritual is difficult to say\" the best-known ritual example surviving in classical Greece is the \"hieros gamos\" enacted at the Anthesteria by the wife of the \"Archon basileus\", the \"Archon King\" in Athens, originally therefore the queen of Athens, with Dionysus, presumably represented by his priest or the \"basileus\" himself, in the Boukoleion in the Agora.\n\nThe brief fertilizing mystical union engenders Dionysus, and doubled unions, of a god and of a mortal man on one night, result, through telegony, in the semi-divine nature of Greek heroes such as Theseus and Heracles.\n\nIn Tantric Buddhism of Nepal, Bhutan, India and Tibet, yab-yum is a ritual of the male deity in union with a female deity as his consort. The symbolism is associated with Anuttarayoga tantra where the male figure is usually linked to compassion (\"\") and skillful means (\"upāya-kauśalya\"), and the female partner to 'insight' (\"prajñā\"). Yab-yum is generally understood to represent the primordial (or mystical) union of wisdom and compassion.\n\nMaithuna is a Sanskrit term used in Tantra most often translated as sexual union in a ritual context. It is the most important of the five makara and constitutes the main part of the Grand Ritual of Tantra variously known as Panchamakara, Panchatattva, and Tattva Chakra.\n\nThe symbolism of union and polarity is a central teaching in Tantric Buddhism, especially in Tibet. The union is realized by the practitioner as a mystical experience within one's own body.\n\nThe hieros gamos is one of the themes that Carl Jung dealt with in his book \"Symbols of Transformation\".\n\nIn Wicca, the Great Rite is a ritual based on the Hieros Gamos. It is generally enacted symbolically by a dagger (known as an athame) being placed point first into a chalice, the action symbolizing the union of the male and female divine. In British Traditional Wicca, the Great Rite is sometimes carried out in actuality by the High Priest and High Priestess.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8214930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8214930", "title": "Ijazah", "text": "Ijazah\n\nAn ijazah (, \"permission\", \"authorization\", \"license\") is a license authorizing its holder to transmit a certain text or subject, which is issued by someone already possessing such authority. It is particularly associated with transmission of Islamic religious knowledge. The license usually implies that the student has acquired this knowledge from the issuer of the \"ijaza\" through first-hand oral instruction, although this requirement came to be relaxed over time. An \"ijaza\" providing a chain of authorized transmitters going back to the original author often accompanied texts of hadith, fiqh and tafsir, but also appeared in mystical, historical, and philological works, as well as literary collections. While the \"ijaza\" is primarily associated with Sunni Islam, the concept also appears in the hadith traditions of Twelver Shia.\n\nGeorge Makdisi hypothesized that the \"ijazah\" was a direct precursor to academic degrees, a reversal of his earlier view that saw both systems as of \"the most fundamental difference\", though this has been rejected by Toby Huff as unsubstantiated.\n\nIn a paper titled \"Traditionalism in Islam: An Essay in Interpretation\", Harvard professor William A. Graham explains the ijazah system as follows:\nThe basic system of \"the journey in search of knowledge\" that developed early in Hadith scholarship, involved travelling to specific authorities (\"shaykhs\"), especially the oldest and most renowned of the day, to hear from their own mouths their hadiths and to obtain their authorization or \"permission\" (\"ijazah\") to transmit those in their names. This ijazah system of personal rather than institutional certification has served not only for Hadith, but also for transmission of texts of any kind, from history, law, or philology to literature, mysticism, or theology. The \"isnad\" of a long manuscript as well as that of a short hadith ideally should reflect the oral, face-to-face, teacher-to-student transmission of the text by the teacher's ijazah, which validates the written text. In a formal, written ijazah, the teacher granting the certificate typically includes an isnad containing his or her scholarly lineage of teachers back to the Prophet through Companions, a later venerable shaykh, or the author of a specific book.\n\nAccording to the \"Lexikon des Mittelalters\" and \"A History of the University in Europe\", the origin of the European doctorate lies in high medieval teaching with its roots going back to late antiquity and the early days of Christian teaching of the Bible. This view does not suggest any link between the \"ijazah\" and the doctorate. Historians such as George Makdisi and his students Devin J. Stewart, Josef W. Meri, and Shawkat Toorawa have instead stated that the \"ijazah\" was an early type of academic degree or doctorate issued in early medieval madrasahs, similar to that which later appeared in European medieval universities. \"\" draws parallels between the Islamic \"ijazah\" and European doctorate, though the entry on the \"Madrasa\" in the \"Encyclopedia of Islam\" draws no such parallels. \n\nMakdisi, in a 1970 investigation into the differences between the Christian university and the Islamic madrasah, was initially of the opinion that the Christian doctorate of the medieval university was the one element in the university that was the most different from the Islamic \"ijazah\" certification. In 1989, though, he said that the origins of the Christian medieval doctorate (\"licentia docendi\") date to the \"ijāzah al-tadrīs wa al-iftā\"' (\"license to teach and issue legal opinions\") in the medieval Islamic legal education system. Makdisi proposed that the \"ijazat attadris\" was the origin of the European doctorate, and went further in suggesting an influence upon the magisterium of the Christian Church. According to the 1989 paper, the ijazat was equivalent to the Doctor of Laws qualification and was developed during the 9th century after the formation of the \"Madh'hab\" legal schools. To obtain a doctorate, a student \"had to study in a guild school of law, usually four years for the basic undergraduate course\" and at least ten years for a post-graduate course. The \"doctorate was obtained after an oral examination to determine the originality of the candidate's theses,\" and to test the student's \"ability to defend them against all objections, in disputations set up for the purpose\" which were scholarly exercises practiced throughout the student's \"career as a graduate student of law.\" After students completed their post-graduate education, they were awarded doctorates giving them the status of \"faqih\" (meaning \"master of law\"), \"mufti\" (meaning \"professor of legal opinions\") and \"mudarris\" (meaning \"teacher\"), which were later translated into Latin as \"magister\", \"professor\" and \"doctor\" respectively.\n\nMadrasas issued the \"ijazat attadris\" in a single field, the Islamic religious law of Sharia. Other academic subjects, including the natural sciences, philosophy and literary studies, were treated \"ancillary\" to the study of the Sharia. The Islamic law degree in Al-Azhar University, the most prestigious madrasa, was traditionally granted without final examinations, but on the basis of the students' attentive attendance to courses. However, the postgraduate doctorate in law was only obtained after \"an oral examination.\" In a 1999 paper, Makdisi points out that, in much the same way granting the \"ijazah\" degree was in the hands of professors, the same was true for the early period of the University of Bologna, where degrees were originally granted by professors. He also points out that, much like the \"ijazat attadris\" was confined to law, the first degrees at Bologna were also originally confined to law, before later extending to other subjects.\n\nMakdisi's thesis has led to further research on the topic by historians such as Stewart, Meri, Lowery and Toorawa. However, several other scholars have criticized Makdisi's work. Norman Daniel, in a 1984 paper, criticized an earlier work of Makdisi for relying on similarities between the two education systems rather than citing historical evidence for a transmission. He stated that Makdisi \"does not seriously consider the spontaneous recurrence of phenomena\", and notes that similarities between two systems do not automatically imply that one has created the other. He further states that there is a lack of evidence for schools in the short-lived Arab settlements of France and mainland Italy, which Makdisi argues may have been links between the Islamic and European educational systems, as well as a lack of evidence of the alleged transmission of scholastic ideas between the two systems altogether. In a discussion of Makdisi's 1989 thesis, Toby Huff argued that there was never any equivalent to the bachelor's degree or doctorate in the Islamic madrasahs, owing to the lack of a faculty teaching a unified curriculum.\n"}
{"id": "23698615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23698615", "title": "Islam and poverty", "text": "Islam and poverty\n\nPeaking whilst in the Middle Ages, the religion of Islam has a tenuous relationship with the idea of voluntary poverty. While Sufism has encouraged the renunciation of material wealth, Sunni and Shi'ite scholars have traditionally held that self-denial is inconsistent with the Quran's admonition against those who would forbid the good that God has put in this world for his people to enjoy.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that Islam began with the message of \"sharing with the poor and...the necessity of sacrificing worldly possessions\", but following the Hijra flight from Mecca, morphed into a political character extolling conquest.\n\nAs scholars began to venerate those who abandoned material wealth in order to pursue full-time worship of God, the idealization of poverty grew to such a point that it began to colour Islamic ideas about the nature of poverty.\n\nMuhammad's wife Aisha was noted to have adopted voluntary poverty, Some traditions relate her actions to a hadith which claims Muhammad ordered her \"A'isha, if you want to be joined with me, take of this world as little as a rider's provisions, beware of associating with the rich, and do not deem a garment worn out until you have patched it\". Likewise, his wife Zaynab bint Jahsh was said to have viewed wealth as \"fitna\", a temptation, and gave away all her possessions and took Umar's 12,000Dirham annual monies given to her, and distributed it among the poor.\n\nThe first two successors to Muhammad, Abu Bakr and Umar, were noted for their voluntary poverty. Abu Bakr was a rich merchant but after he became the companion of Muhammed he became poor because of Quraish tribe's opposition. At the time of Abu Bakr's daughter Ayisha marriage Ayisha have only threadbare clothing which she mended herself Umar was noted for wearing a frequently patched cloak, rather than a new one. When 'Umar arranged for to be sent 1,000 dinars, the latter is said to have wept because he had heard Muhammad say that the poor would enter Jannah 500 years before the rest of the Muslims.\n\nThere is a story that claims that a Muslim saw in a dream Malik Bin Deenar and Muhammad Ibn Wasi' being led into Jannah, and noticed that Malik was more honoured and allowed to enter first. When he enquired, noting that he believed Ibn Wasi' was the more noble, he was told that it was true, \"but Mohammed ibn Wasi possessed two shirts, and Malik only one. That is the reason why Malik is preferred\".\n\nSufis referred to the voluntary abstinence of food as \"the white death\", the refusal to new clothes as \"the green death\" and the purposeful burdening of oneself with trouble as \"the black death\".\n\nThe saint Rabia al-Adawiyya was said to have spent her life preaching voluntary poverty and complete reliance upon Allah for all needs. Dawud al-Tai, a scholar of Sharia and Hadith who died in 777, was said to own nothing except a mat of bullrushes, a leather water vessel used for wudu and drinking, and a brick which he tucked beneath his head to sleep.\n\nOne apocryphal story claims that a novice and a Sheikh were walking in the woods, and the novice was carrying money. When they came to a dark valley with two roads, the novice asked the Sheikh which path should be taken, and was told \"Throw away the [money], then you'll be free to take any road you wish\". The story teaching that those who own material wealth are ruled by the fear of losing it.\n\nThe Sufi Ali Hujwiri wrote a prayer asking God to \"first bestow on me goods that I may give thanks for them, and then help me to abstain from them for Your sake...that my poverty may be voluntary, not compulsory\".\n\nal-Ghazzali's book \"Revival of the Religious Sciences\" (\"Ihya 'ulum al-din\") contained a section entitled \"The virtue of poverty\",(\"Fadilat al-faqr\") which contains a number of stories, such as Ibrahim Bin Adham sending away a sizable monetary donation, noting \"I don't want to strike my name from the list of the poor for 60,000 dirhams\".\n\nSome Sufi ascetics rely solely on charity for their sustenance, and the Chishti sect forbids them to keep any gift for longer than a day without distributing it to the needy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1703894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703894", "title": "Katee Sackhoff", "text": "Katee Sackhoff\n\nKathryn Ann \"Katee\" Sackhoff (born April 8, 1980) is an American actress known for playing Lieutenant Kara \"Starbuck\" Thrace on the Sci Fi Channel's television program \"Battlestar Galactica\" (2004–2009). She was nominated for four Saturn Awards for her work on \"Battlestar Galactica\" and won the award for Best Supporting Actress on Television in 2005.\n\nSackhoff has also starred in the short-lived TV series \"The Fearing Mind\" (2000–2001) and \"The Education of Max Bickford\" (2001–2002); had recurring roles in the TV series \"Bionic Woman\" (2007), \"Nip/Tuck\" (2009), \"\" (2010–2011), and \"\" (2012–2013); and had a lead role in the eighth season of \"24\" as Dana Walsh (2010). She voices several characters including Bitch Pudding on Adult Swim's stop motion animated series \"Robot Chicken\". Between 2012 and 2017, she starred in the A&E and Netflix series \"Longmire\" as Deputy Sheriff Victoria \"Vic\" Moretti before recurring on \"The Flash\" as Amunet.\n\nShe had lead roles in the films \"\" (2002); \"\" (2007); \"\" (2011); \"\", \"Sexy Evil Genius\", \"Riddick\", \"Oculus\" (2013) and \"Don't Knock Twice\" (2016).\n\nSackhoff was born in Portland, Oregon, and grew up in St. Helens, Oregon. Her mother, Mary, worked as an English-as-second-language (ESL) program coordinator, and her father, Dennis, is a land developer. Her brother, Erick, is co-owner of a vehicle modification shop near Portland. She graduated from Sunset High School in Beaverton in 1998. She began swimming at an early age and by high school, was planning to pursue a career in the sport until her right knee was injured. This led her to begin practicing yoga—which she continues today—and to pursue an interest in acting.\n\nHer first acting role was in the Lifetime movie \"Fifteen and Pregnant\" in which she played a teenager with a baby. The movie starred Kirsten Dunst and motivated her to move to Hollywood and pursue a career in acting after graduating high school. Sackhoff's first recurring role was Annie in MTV's \"Undressed\", next gaining a supporting role as Nell Bickford in \"The Education of Max Bickford\". Sackhoff made her motion picture debut in \"My First Mister\", and next appeared in film as Jenna \"Jen\" Danzig in \"\".\n\nSackhoff's most notable role is as Kara \"Starbuck\" Thrace in the miniseries and follow-up TV series \"Battlestar Galactica\", for which she won a Saturn Award in 2006 for Best Actress on Television. The actress's persona led the writers to develop the character of Starbuck as a more volatile and complex character. \"Galactica\" executive producer Ron Moore described her as having magnetism while producer David Eick expanded stating: \"We saw this whole other side that was all because of Katee: vulnerability, insecurity, desperation. We started freeing ourselves up to explore the weakness of the character, because we knew Katee could express those things without compromising the character's strength.\" Sackhoff said her performance was inspired by Linda Hamilton's portrayal of Sarah Connor in \"\": \"I think that was the one character that I kind of looked to as far as body image and strength. I think I looked to her character and said, 'OK, that's kind of what you need to embody.\nToward the end of the filming of \"Battlestar Galactica\", Sackhoff began feeling physically weak. Soon after filming wrapped, she was diagnosed with thyroid cancer. After surgery to remove her thyroid, she required no radiation treatments and by February 2009 was in remission.\nIn 2007, Sackhoff was cast as the evil cyborg Sarah Corvus in the short-lived NBC series \"Bionic Woman\". David Eick, executive producer for the show, stated, \"She's a very special find. Those actors who can combine the qualities of strength and vulnerability—they usually call those people movie stars.\"\nSackhoff plays the female lead in the action/sci-fi movie \"The Last Sentinel\" and the supernatural thriller \"\".\nSackhoff appears as the main character in the Lifetime Original Movie \"How I Married My High School Crush\". She has made guest appearances in \"Cold Case\", \"ER\", \"Law & Order\", and \"Robot Chicken\".\nSackhoff provided the voice of a female marine in the video game \"Halo 3\" and is featured in the viral marketing campaign for \"Resistance 2\". In 2011, she provided the voice for Black Cat 2099 in \"\". She voiced Sarah Essen in the DC Comics animated film, \"\".\nShe appears in four episodes of the fifth season of the series \"Nip/Tuck\" playing a new doctor, Dr. Theodora Rowe. However, for the sixth season Sackhoff was replaced by Rose McGowan for the role due to scheduling conflicts.\nSackhoff headlined NBC's Dick Wolf-produced cop drama \"Lost and Found\" as Tessa, \"an offbeat female LAPD detective who, after butting heads with the higher-ups, is sent as a punishment to the basement to work on John Doe and Jane Doe cases.\" The pilot was filmed in January 2009. NBC decided not to pick up the series.\nIn 2009, she appeared as herself in \"The Vengeance Formulation\" episode of the CBS situation comedy \"The Big Bang Theory\". In the episode, she is fantasized as Howard Wolowitz's dream girl. She appears again in season 4, in the same role.\nSackhoff appeared as a series regular in the eighth season of the TV series \"24\", playing Dana Walsh, a CTU data analyst with a secret.\nIn February 2010, Sackhoff signed on to play the lead in an ABC crime drama pilot, \"Boston's Finest\". ABC decided not to pick up the series.\n\nSackhoff is set to star in the action–werewolf thriller \"Growl\". She made a special appearance in the \"Futurama\" episode \"Lrrreconcilable Ndndifferences\".\nIn the fall of 2010, Sackhoff joined the cast of \"\" as Detective Reed, a smart investigator who does not do well with sensitivity.\nIn 2011, Sackhoff guest starred in an episode of \"Workaholics\" as a homeless drug addict named Rachel.\nSackhoff co-starred as the lead female role in \"Longmire\", an A&E/Netflix television series based on the novels by Craig Johnson. Sackhoff played Sheriff's Deputy Vic Moretti.\nSackhoff played Dahl, a mercenary hired to track down Vin Diesel's intergalactic convict character in \"Riddick\".\n\nIn August 2012, Sackhoff became the co-host of the \"Schmoes Know Movies\" podcast on the Toad Hop Network. One of her first shows was with guest Sean Astin.\n\nSackhoff announced in April 2015 a new TV-series project, \"Rain\", which she wrote and is executive-producing through her Fly Free Productions. She also had a role in the video game \"\", performing voice over and motion capture as Sarah Hall. She portrayed Pink Ranger Kimberly in \"Power/Rangers\", a short depicting a dystopian future in the \"Power Rangers\" universe.\n\nIn 2017, Sackhoff joined The CW series \"The Flash\" in the recurring role of villainess Amunet (Blacksmith), for which she is billed as a special guest star.\n\nSackhoff and her \"Battlestar Galactica\" co-star Tricia Helfer co-founded the Acting Outlaws, a motorcycle-riding charity with which they have worked to raise awareness and money for causes and organizations including the Gulf Restoration Network, the Humane Society, the Red Cross amfAR.\n\nShe is a vegetarian. Of her practice of Transcendental Meditation, begun in 2015, Sackhoff has said, \"What it taught me was that you can't fail at meditation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14094558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14094558", "title": "Lake Euramoo", "text": "Lake Euramoo\n\nLake Euramoo (a.k.a. Ngimun & Nuta) is a shallow dumbbell-shaped volcanic crater lake (a maar) in Danbulla, Tablelands Region, Far North Queensland, Australia. It was formed about 23,000 years ago by two massive explosions from groundwater superheating.\n\nThe crater lake is known to Yidinji, within their oral history and mythology as \"Ngimun\", and known to neighbouring Ngdjon-jii as \"Nuta\"; though formally gazetted by the Queensland Government as 'Lake Euramoo',\nEuramo being the Dyirbal word for river (\"yuramu\")\n\nThe lake (\"Ngimun\") falls within the current Danbulla National Park and State Forest, on the Tertiary uplifted highlands of the Atherton Tableland, within the Wet Tropics of Queensland World Heritage Area, Australia.\n\nYidinji and Ngadjon-jii mythology explaining the origin of \"Ngimun\" plus two other companion crater lakes, \"Yidyam\" (Lake Eacham) and \"Barany\" (Lake Barrine), has been described as a plausible and surprisingly accurate oral account of volcanic eruptions or explosions in the area around 10,000 years ago.\n\"It is said that two newly-initiated men broke a taboo and angered the rainbow serpent Yamany, major spirit of the area ... As a result 'the camping-place began to change, the earth under the camp roaring like thunder. The wind started to blow down, as if a cyclone were coming. The camping-place began to twist and crack. While this was happening there was in the sky a red cloud, of a hue never seen before. The people tried to run from side to side but were swallowed by a crack which opened in the ground'...\"<br>\n\n\".. After telling the myth, in 1964, the storyteller remarked that when this happened the country round the lakes was 'not jungle - just open scrub'. In 1968, a dated pollen diagram from the organic sediments of Lake Euramoo [Ngimun] by Peter Kershaw (1970) showed, rather surprisingly, that the rain forest in that area is only about 7,600 years old.\"\nThe vegetation surrounding Lake Euramoo (Ngimun) is a remnant of moist sub montane rainforest, surrounded by previously cleared land that, within the last 50 years, has been planted with endemic Hoop Pine (Araucaria cunninghamii) and exotic conifers, or recolonised by the remnant rainforest species.\n\nTypical moist submontane rainforest species found near Lake Euramoo (Ngimun), within 100 m, include:\n\nAround the margin of Ngimun are identifiable 'zones' of aquatic plants which fluctuate with water depth and the seasons:\n\n"}
{"id": "36638928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36638928", "title": "List of Jewish atheists and agnostics", "text": "List of Jewish atheists and agnostics\n\nBased on Jewish law's emphasis on matrilineal descent, even religiously conservative Orthodox Jewish authorities would accept an atheist born to a Jewish mother as fully Jewish. A 2011 study found that half of all American Jews have doubts about the existence of God, compared to 10–15% of other American religious groups.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33823326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33823326", "title": "List of churches in Sofia", "text": "List of churches in Sofia\n\nThis is a list of Christian temples within the city limits of Sofia - the Bulgarian capital city. The city is the centre of the Sofia ecclesiastical district as well as a centre of the Sofia eparchy (diocese), part of The Bulgarian Orthodox Church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25833123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25833123", "title": "List of extinct Shia sects", "text": "List of extinct Shia sects\n\nThe following is a list of extinct sects of Shia Islam. These branches of Shia are thought no longer to have any living followers or practitioners. The sects were created around certain beliefs that were unorthodox or otherwise not held by the majority of Shia Muslims.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57931472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57931472", "title": "List of tallest mosques", "text": "List of tallest mosques\n\nA list of the tallest mosques in the world. The height value gives the height of the tallest element of the mosque ( usually a minaret).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6143067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6143067", "title": "Mahima Dharma", "text": "Mahima Dharma\n\nMahima Dharma is an Indian religion practiced primarily in Odisha and nearby states. It was started by people from the underprivileged castes in a caste-based Hindu society as a social reform and protest against the dominance of Brahmanism. The religious movement was based on the condemnation of all religious customs set by the rich and upper-class society generally.\n\nThe founder of Mahima Dharma was Mahima Swami, or Mahima Gosain as he was also called. The first known report of Mahima Swamy's existence was in 1867 in the newspaper \"Utkala Deepika\" in Orissa.\n\nFor many years, Mahima Gosain was in deep meditation in the caves at Himalaya. From there, Swami travelled to many regions and at last appeared in Puri (Odisha) in 1826 as Dhulia Gosain, where Swami settled on the dusty roads of Puri. People used to ask him queries on their well being and, surprisingly, it all happened to be true. It is believed once Swami was invited to Puri Mukti Mandap and there he confirmed Brahma is Nirguna and Sunya.\n\nFrom Puri Swami moved to hill caves of Khandagiri, Dhauligiri, Nilagiri etc. near Bhubaneswar (capital of Orissa state). During that period Swami lived on water alone for twelve years and people used to call him \"Nirahari Gosain\". In 1838, Swami moved to Kapilash hill of Dhenkanal district of Orissa and spent twenty-one days in Atma Yoga Samadhi (unification of human mind) with \"balkal\" of the \"kumbhi\" tree (bark of careya arborea), leaving his clothes on a huge round stone. A great seven-hooded snake spread its hood covering his head. The nearby area of the forest was illuminated by the luster of the body of Swami. On the 21st day, a tribal, Sadananda of nearby Deogram village, witnessed the magnificent Atma Yoga Samadhi of Swami and served him fruits for twelve years during the stay of Swami at Kapilash hill. For this, Swami came to be known as \"Phalahari Gosain\". The next twelve years Swami survived on cow's milk alone, rendered as service by the ruler of Dhenkanal, King Bhagirathi Bhramarbar Bahadur. Both the king and the queen had the opportunity to witness Swami on top of Kapilash hill and would serve him milk in new earthen pots.\n\nLater, Swami moved to Kakanpada village of Rairakhol with his first disciple Sidha Govinda Baba. It is said he made an appearance to a blind Bhima Bhoi and blessed him with eyesight. Upon seeing the Swami, Bhima, with all his humbleness, prayed to the Swami to make him blind again as the torture of mankind was intolerable for him. Swami blessed him to compose a poem on \"Nirguna Brahma\" to spread the Mahima cult. After this, Swami retired back to Kapilash hill. Many believe the journey of Swami to Rairakhol was through air, not by foot.\n\nAfter spending twelve years in Kapilash hill, Mahima Prabhu travelled around for twenty-four years as \"Brahmabadhuta\" (wandering mendicant of supreme order) and spread Mahima Dharma in Odisha and the neighboring states, before taking\" Samadhi\" at Joranda, Dhenkanal, of Odisha on the 10th day after the new moon of 1876. The place where Mahima Swami disappeared (merged Himself in the Mahanityapura) is called Mahima Gadi. It is the heart of all Mahima movement around world.\n\nMahima Dharma teaches belief in a single God (parambrahma or the supreme-soul who is formless and omnipresent) named \"Alekha\".\n\nMahima Dharma became a powerful force for liberation in India because, as a traditional Indian religion, it stood uncompromising in its rejection of the caste system. Sri Bhima Bhoi, an initiate and ardent disciple of Mahima Swama who collected, disseminated and created \"bhajans\" from the teachings of Mahima Swamy, was a Khond from Odisha.\n\nThe distinct and original teachings of Mahima Dharma are often conveyed using terms that may have an unrelated meaning in other Indian religious traditions. This has led scholars to see similarities between Mahima Dharma and, variously, the traditions of \"crypto-Buddhism\", Panchashakas, Jainism and Tantra .\n\nAdherents reject idol worship as well as the Advaita tradition of Vaishnavism. Charity through the provision of food for those in need is an essential part of Mahima Dharma.\n\nThe religion is essentially monotheistic in nature. Mahima religion strictly opposes the caste system and idol worship. The religion strictly forbids adultery, the consumption of any intoxicants, violence, and the consumption of any flesh. Food and water has to be taken before sunset. The Mahima devotee should leave his/her bed around 4am early morning and perform Saran/Darsan before sunrise. Saran/Darsan is the act of complete surrender of self to Mahima Prabhu. The same is repeated three times a day including noon and evening before sunset. They are sometimes misinterpreted as followers of Surya, the Sun god, which is not true.\n\nThe religion has a monastic order. Members of the monastic order, like Buddhist monks, do not constitute a priestly class and have no control over the lay practitioners. They have to lead a life of poverty, celibacy, piety and constant movement, as the monks are not allowed to sleep in the same place on two consecutive nights nor take meal twice from same house in any day. There is strict order of the Mahima Swami to avoid any kind of idol worship. The Supreme Lord of the indescribable grace (Alekha) is worshiped.\n\nThe Mahima principle is derived from Veda and Upanishads. It is believed by scholars that this might be a neo-Vedanta movement. In short, Mahima cult is a revivalism of the Vedantic thrust and a reformist movement of Odisha within the Sanatan Hindu fold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32587498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32587498", "title": "Mata Sundari", "text": "Mata Sundari\n\nMātā Sundarī (\"Gurmukhī alphabet\": ਮਾਤਾ ਸੁੰਦਰੀ, \"Shahmukhī alphabet\": ماتا سندری) was the daughter of Ram Sarana, a Kumarav Khatri of Bijwara, in present-day Hoshiārpur district. She was the second wife of Guru Gobind Singh. The couple married at Anandpur on 4 April 1684 and had one son, Sahibzada Ajit Singh, born at Pāoṇṭā on 26 January 1687.\n\nShe holds a special place in Sikhism for the role she played in leading Sikhs after the ascension of Guru Gobind Singh.\n"}
{"id": "405387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405387", "title": "Nashim", "text": "Nashim\n\n__notoc__\n\nNashim ( \"Women\" or \"Wives\") is the third order of the Mishnah (also of the Tosefta and Talmud) containing family law. Of the six orders of the Mishnah, it is the second shortest.\n\nNashim consists of seven tractates:\n\n\nThe traditional reasoning for the order of tractates according to Maimonides is as follows:\n\nBoth the Babylonian and Jerusalem Talmuds have a Gemara on each of the tractates in the order.\n\n\nTextual resources\n"}
{"id": "2206450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2206450", "title": "Natan Slifkin", "text": "Natan Slifkin\n\nNatan Slifkin also Nosson Slifkin (; born 25 June 1975 in Manchester, England), popularly known as the \"Zoo Rabbi\", is a British-born Israeli Orthodox rabbi (non-pulpit serving) and director of the Biblical Museum of Natural History in Beit Shemesh, Israel. He best known for his interest in zoology, science and for his books on these topics, which are controversial to Haredi Jews.\n\nSlifkin was born and raised in Manchester, United Kingdom, where he studied at a local yeshiva. He left in 1995 to continue his studies in the Medrash Shmuel yeshiva and Mir Yeshiva in Jerusalem, Israel. He was ordained at Ohr Somayach Institutions, where he taught Talmud and contemporary Judaism. He now lives with his family in Ramat Beit Shemesh, where he runs the Biblical Museum of Natural History. Slifkin has a master's degree in Judaic Studies from the Lander Institute in Jerusalem and a doctorate in Jewish History from Bar-Ilan University, completed in 2016. His dissertation was entitled: \"Rabbinic and Maskilic Encounters with Zoology in the Nineteenth Century\".\n\nSlifkin explores traditional rabbinic perspectives in his books and discusses how they may relate to issues of interest to modern science. Slifkin is the author of numerous books dealing with the Torah, science and zoology. In Slifkin's approach to the reconciliation of Genesis and modern scientific theory, traditional Judaism mandates neither a literalistic approach to Biblical cosmology, nor a belief that the Talmud is always correct about scientific matters. Views similar to these were accepted by some as within the realm of Orthodox Judaism. A public debate began about Slifkin's books about the question of how literally Orthodox Judaism interprets the Torah and how much weight should be given to the scientific discussions of rabbinic sages.\n\nSlifkin's books, which had \"cautious references to evolutionary theory\", led to a denunciation of his work by ultra-Orthodox authorities.\n\nThe rabbis object to the tone of Slifkin's work, stating that \"even what is not heretical is expressed in a way only a heretic would speak.\" \n\nThe ban sparked a debate, largely on the Internet which led to Slifkin's publisher, Targum Press discontinuing distribution of his books. Yashar Books, a smaller Jewish publisher, agreed to distribute them. \n\nMoment magazine quoted an anonymous rabbi who said: “The Slifkin ban is a huge break. It’s a kind of power struggle, and those who didn’t sign the ban are outraged right now. I’m talking about rabbis with long white beards who are furious about it...He’s saying out loud what a lot of people have been talking about quietly all along. To those people, he’s a kind of figurehead.\" \n\nRabbi Aharon Feldman and Rabbi Shlomo Miller wrote articles in defense of the ban, and Rabbi Moshe Meiselman gave three lectures on this topic at Toras Moshe, although Rabbi Feldman grants that, even in the opinion of Rabbi Eliashiv, Slifkin \"cannot be called a heretic\" even though parts of the books are, in their view, heretical, because \"he did follow, at least, a minority opinion.\" These defenses of the ban were themselves controversial, and Rabbi Slifkin posted them all on his website, together with rebuttals written by various people. Rabbi Meiselman requested that Rabbi Slifkin remove the lectures from his website, a request to which Slifkin did not acquiesce. In 2013, Rabbi Meiselman released a nearly 900 page book entitled \"Torah, Chazal, and Science\", which he stated \"was in response to some recent controversies surrounding issues of Torah and science. A spate of books... have attempted to introduce a radical new theology and proclaim it compatible with classic Jewish belief.\"\n\nOn 5 October 2008 Slifkin published an essay entitled \"In Defense of My Opponents\" in which he acknowledges that there is a reasonable basis for a ban on his books in certain communities.\n\nSlifkin is the author of numerous books on Torah, zoology and cryptozoology:\n\n\nSlifkin has a website called \"Zoo Torah\" and writes a blog called \"Rationalist Judaism,\" in which he promulgates his opinions on Jewish thought. He has also published e-books on many of his topics of interest.\n\n"}
{"id": "9352337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9352337", "title": "Navjote", "text": "Navjote\n\nThe Navjote () ceremony is the ritual through which an individual is inducted into the Zoroastrian religion and begins to wear the Sedreh and Kushti. The term \"navjote\" is used primarily by the Zoroastrians of India (the Parsis), while \"sedreh pushi\" is used primarily by the Zoroastrians of Iran. Zoroastrians from Pakistan consisting of both Parsis and Iranis use both terms.\n\nThe word 'navjote' is a Latinized form of the Parsi Gujarati compound of \"nav\" \"new\" and \"jote\" \"reciter [of prayer]\", \"invoker\", \"sacrificer\". The second half of the word is—via Zoroastrian Middle Persian \"zot\"—an indirect continuation of Avestan \"zaotar\", with /z/ eventually becoming /j/ because /z/ is not upheld in Gujarati. The Persian term \"Sedreh pushi\" translates to \"Putting on the sedreh,\" a reference to the main component of the ritual.\n\nAlthough there is no upper limit to the age of the individual for which the ceremony takes place, in common practice it occurs before a girl or boy reaches maturity. Under no circumstances is it permitted to be done for a child less than seven years of age since the child at that age range cannot comprehend the significance of the event. Ideally Navjote must be done before the child hits puberty\n\nIn \"Vendidad\" 18.54, individuals above the age of 15 (once considered the age at which one attained adulthood) who are not yet been invested are said to be likely to fall into evil ways. In the 9th-12th century texts of Zoroastrian tradition, the same group are said to be \"kushad davarashni\", literally \"running about improperly clothed\". So for instance \"Menog-i Khrad\" 2.35 and the \"Book of Arda Viraf\" (25.6.10). The latter considers such a thing to be a service to demons (the \"daeva\"s). Other texts of tradition that define adulthood as the boundary include the \"Sad-dar\" 10.1 and \"Shayast na-Shayast\" 10.13.\n\nThe ceremony is traditionally the first time a Zoroastrian wears the sedreh undershirt and kushti belt, which they then continue to wear for the rest of their life. The sacred clothing signifies parental responsibility as well as responsibility for the one who is undergoing this ceremony. When the child wears the sacred clothes, it means the parents are now obligated to morally and religiously educate the child. If the child commits a wrongful act, it is their responsibility, as they may also take some pride in themselves when their child commits a righteous act. The sacred thread and shirt also teach the child responsibility, as they are to be untied before certain practices, such as prayer, bathing, and before meals, and re-tied shortly after the task is completed.\n\nPreparation often begins years before, as similar to a Bar Mitzvah in Judaism a basic knowledge of several key prayers must be shown during the ceremony.\n\nThe child must bathe in sacred water before the ceremony. This represents a cleansing and purification. A full tray of rice is also placed in the room, to be given to the officiating family priest, after the ceremony. Flowers are also placed in the room, to be given to the assembling guests after the ceremony. A tray bearing a mixture of coconut, pomegranate grains, raisins, and almonds, are in the room as well, and will be sprinkled on the child after the ceremony to symbolize prosperity.\n\nThe ceremony is quite intricate, consisting of many recitals of faith and prayer.\n\nLike most Zoroastrian rituals, Navjote takes place in the presence of a fire (see Atar). In the case of this ceremony, which takes place in a public place, the fire is not sanctified and following the event it is allowed to die out.\n\nThe Navjote ceremony itself comprises three parts: Patet Pashemani, Din no Kalmo and Investiture of Sedreh and Kushti, and Tan Darosti.\n\nThe Patet Pashemani is a traditional prayer of repentance and is recited by the priest on behalf of the person being initiated.\n\nThe sedreh is then slipped on to the initiate's forearms while reciting Yatha Ahu Vairo. The initiate then recites the Din no Kalmo (recitation of Faith to the Zarthusti religion). With another Yahta Ahu Vairyo prayer the sedreh is put onto the initiate. The priest then stands behind the initiate and starts the opening stanzas from the Hormuzd Yasht. The initiate then joins in and prays the Hormazd Khodai and Jasme Avangeh Mazda prayers.\n\nThe initiate is then seated and garlanded. The priest then recites the Tan Darosti (blessings and good wishes) prayer where for the first time the appropriate prefix (behdin, osta or osti) is used (see below) for the initiate. Persons who have not yet had a Navjote are accorded the prefix Khurd.\n\nFollowing the ceremony, the child is viewed as a member of the Zoroastrian community, bearing responsibility with its rewards and repercussions. An individual from a lay family is addressed in the liturgy as a \"behdin\", \"follower of the [good] religion\". This may be distinguished from the title for a member of a clerical family who is henceforth addressed as an \"osta\" (for males) or an \"osti\" (for females). This does not change unless the individual actually joins the priesthood.\n\nUpanayana, Hindu thread ceremony\n"}
{"id": "29763860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29763860", "title": "Nihang Khan", "text": "Nihang Khan\n\nNihang Khan (Gurmukhi: ਨਿਹੰਗ ਖ਼ਾਨ, Shahmukhi: نهنگ خاں) was the \"zamindar\" ruler of a small principality called Kotla Nihang Khan near Ropar in Punjab, India. He was a friend and follower of the tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh. The Guru and his associates frequently stayed with Nihang Khan, who often sheltered and provided succor to them in the period when they were facing persecution by Mughal forces. By way of faith and ethnicity, Nihang Khan was a Muslim Pathan.\n\nGuru Gobind Singh and Nihang Khan first met on the Amavas of the month of Maghar in Vikram Samvat year 1745 (corresponding to 1688 CE). Nihang Khan was so impressed that he declared that he would \"\"dedicate his all in the cause of the Guru\".\" To honor him, Sikh religious literature often refers to him as \"Bhai\" Nihang Khan. One of Nihang Khan's sons was \"Bhai\" Alam Khan, whose wedding the Guru also attended on May 3, 1694.\n\n"}
{"id": "24591029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24591029", "title": "Philip the Arab and Christianity", "text": "Philip the Arab and Christianity\n\nPhilip the Arab was one of the few 3rd-century Roman emperors sympathetic to Christians, although his relationship with Christianity is obscure and controversial. Philip was born in Auranitis, an Arab district east of the Sea of Galilee. The urban and Hellenized centers of the region were Christianized in the early years of the 3rd century via major Christian centers at Bosra and Edessa; there is little evidence of Christian presence in the small villages of the region in this period, such as Philip's birthplace at Philippopolis. Philip served as praetorian prefect, commander of the Praetorian Guard, from 242; he was made emperor in 244. In 249, after a brief civil war, he was killed at the hands of his successor, Decius.\n\nDuring the late 3rd century and into the 4th, it was held by some churchmen that Philip had been the first Christian emperor; he was described as such in Jerome's \"Chronicon\" (\"Chronicle\"), which was well known during the Middle Ages, and in Orosius' highly popular \"Historia Adversus Paganos\" (\"History Against the Pagans\"). Most scholars hold that these and other early accounts ultimately derive from Eusebius of Caesarea's \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" (\"Ecclesiastical History\").\n\nThe most important section of Eusebius' \"Historia\" on Philip's religious beliefs describes the emperor's visit to a church on Easter Eve when he was denied entry by the presiding bishop until he confessed his sins. The account is paralleled by Chrysostom's homily, which celebrates Saint Babylas, Bishop of Antioch, for denying a sinful emperor entry to his church; and quotations of Leontius in the \"Chronicon Paschale\" which describe Philip seeking penitence from Babylas for the sin of murdering his predecessor. Given the parallels between the accounts, most scholars believe that Eusebius, Chrysostom, and Leontius are referring to the same event (or legend).\n\nWith the growth of scholarly criticism in the 17th and 18th centuries, fewer historians believed Philip to be a Christian. Historians had become increasingly aware of secular texts, which did not describe Philip as a Christian—and which, indeed, recorded him participating as \"pontifex maximus\" (chief priest) over the millennial Secular Games in 248. Modern scholars are divided on the issue. Some, like Hans Pohlsander and Ernst Stein, argue that the ecclesiastic narratives are ambiguous, based on oral rumor, and do not vouch for a Christian Philip; others, like John York, Irfan Shahîd, and Warwick Ball, argue that the ecclesiastic narratives are clear and dependable enough that Philip can be described as a Christian; still others, like Glen Bowersock, argue that the sources are strong enough to describe Philip as a man interested in and sympathetic to Christianity, but not strong enough to call him a Christian.\n\nPhilip was born in a village in Auranitis, part of the district of Trachonitis, east of the Sea of Galilee in Palestine. Philip renamed the village Philippopolis (the modern al-Shahbā', Syria) during his reign as emperor. He was one of only three Easterners to be made emperor before the decisive separation of East and West in 395. (The other two were Elagabalus and Alexander Severus). Even among Easterners Philip was atypical, as he was an Arab, not a Greek. His father was Julius Marinus; nothing besides his name is known, but the name indicates that he held Roman citizenship and that he must have been prominent in his community.\n\nThe early details of Philip's career are obscure, but his brother, Gaius Julius Priscus, was made praetorian prefect under Emperor Gordian III (r. 238–44). If a fragmentary inscription (\"Inscriptiones Latinae Selectae\" 1331) refers to Priscus, he would have moved through several equestrian offices (that is, administrative positions open to a member of the equestrian order) during Gordian's reign. In the spring of 242, Philip himself was made praetorian prefect, most likely with the help of his brother. Following a failed campaign against Persia in the winter of 243–44, Gordian died in camp. Rumors that Philip had murdered him were taken up by the senatorial opposition of the later 3rd century, and survive in the Latin histories and epitomes of the period. Philip was acclaimed emperor, and was secure in that title by late winter 244. Philip made his brother \"rector Orientis\", an executive position with extraordinary powers, including command of the armies in the Eastern provinces. Philip began his reign by negotiating a peaceful end to his predecessor's war against Persia. In 248, Philip called the Secular Games to celebrate the 1000-year anniversary of the founding of Rome.\n\nIn the Near East, Philip's brother Priscus' tax collection methods provoked the revolt of Jotapianus. At the same time, Silbannacus started a rebellion in the Rhenish provinces. He faced a third rebellion in 248 when the legions he had used in successful campaigns against the Carpi on the Danubian frontier revolted and proclaimed an officer named Pacatianus emperor. All three rebellions were suppressed quickly. In 249, to restore order after the defeat of Pacatianus, Philip gave Senator Decius, a native of the region, command of the Danubian armies. In late spring 249, the armies proclaimed Decius emperor. The civil war that followed ended in a battle outside Verona. Decius emerged victorious, and Philip either died or was assassinated. When news of Philip's death reached Rome, the Praetorian Guard murdered his son and successor Marcus Julius Severus Philippus.\n\nNo account or allusion to Philip's presumed conversion to Christianity survives. The Byzantinist and Arabist Irfan Shahîd, who argues in favor of Philip's Christianity in \"Rome and the Arabs\", assumes that he had been a Christian before becoming emperor. He argues, therefore, that there is no need to explain the absence of evidence for Philip's conversion in contemporary Christian literature. Trachonitis, equidistant from Antioch in the north and Bosra in the south, and sited on a road connecting the two, could have been Christianized from either direction. Even if he was not himself Christian, Philip would probably have been familiar with Christians in his hometown as well as Bosra and other nearby settlements. Hans Pohlsander, a classicist and historian arguing against accounts of Philip's Christianity, allows that Philip \"\"may have been\" curious about a religion which had its origins in an area so close to his place of birth. As an eastern provincial rather than an Italian, he \"may not have been\" so intense in his commitment to the traditional Roman religion that he could not keep an open mind on other religions.\" He also accepts that Philippopolis probably contained a Christian congregation during Philip's childhood. For the scholar of religion Frank Trombley, however, the absence of evidence for the early Christianization of Philippopolis makes Shahîd's assumption that Philip was Christian from early childhood unmerited.\n\nIf Philip had been a Christian during his military service, he would have not been a particularly unusual figure for his era—although membership in the army was prohibited by certain churchmen, and would have required participation in rites some Christians found sacrilegious, it was not uncommon among the Christian laity. The position of an emperor, however, was more explicitly pagan—emperors were expected to officiate over public rites and lead the religious ceremonies of the army. Christian scripture contains explicit prohibitions on this sort of behavior, such as the First Commandment: \"You shall have no other gods before me\". Whatever the prohibitions, people raised on the \"more tolerant Christianity of the camp\" would have been able to justify participation in pagan ritual to themselves. We know that these people exist: the historical record includes Christian army officers, who would have been regularly guilty of idolatry, and the military martyrs of the late 3rd century. Their ritual sacrifice excluded them from certain parts of the Christian community (ecclesiastical writers tended to ignore them, for example) but these people nonetheless believed themselves to be Christian and were recognized by others as Christians.\n\nThanks to its proximity to the first Christian communities of Palestine, Provincia Arabia, of which Philippopolis was a part, was among the first regions to convert to Christianity. By the time of Philip's birth, the region had been extensively Christianized, especially in the north and in Hellenized settlements like those of Auranitis. The region is known to have had a fully developed synodal system (in which bishops from the dioceses in the region met to discuss Church affairs) by the mid-3rd century. The region sent six bishops to the Council of Nicaea in 325, and Eusebius' \"Onomasticon\", a gazetteer of Biblical place-names, records a wholly Christian village called Cariathaim, or Caraiatha, near Madaba. Outside of the cities, however, there is less evidence of Christianization. Before the 5th century there is little evidence of the faith, and many villages remained unconverted in the 6th. Philippopolis, which was a small village for most of this period, does not have a Christian inscription that can be dated earlier than 552. It is not known when the village established a prelateship, but it must have been sometime before 451, when it sent a bishop to the Council of Chalcedon.\n\nChristian beliefs were present in the region's Arab community since about AD 200, when Abgar VIII, an ethnic Arab and king of the Roman client state Osroene, converted to Christianity. The religion was propagated from Abgar's capital at Edessa until its destruction in 244. By the mid-3rd century, the city of Bosra had a Christian bishop, Beryllos. Beryllos offers an early example of the heretical beliefs Hellenic Christians imputed to the Arabs as a race: Beryllos believed that Christ did not exist before he was made flesh at the Incarnation. According to Eusebius of Caesarea, his views were condemned as heresy following debate at a local synod. The debate was most likely conducted in Greek, a language in common use among the well-Hellenized cities of the region.\n\nThe 3rd century was the age in which the initiative for persecution shifted from the masses to the Imperial office. In the 1st and 2nd centuries, persecutions were carried out under the authority of local government officials. Septimius Severus (r. 193–211) and Maximin (r. 235–38) are alleged to have issued general rescripts against the religion and targeted its clergy, but the evidence for their acts is obscure and contested. There is no evidence that Philip effected any changes to the Christians' legal status. Pogroms against the Christians in Alexandria took place while Philip was still emperor. There is no evidence that Philip punished, participated in or assisted the pogrom.\n\nNo historian contests that Philip's successor Decius (r. 249–51), called a general persecution against the Church, and most would list it as the first. Decius was anxious to secure himself in the imperial office. Before mid-December 249, Decius issued an edict demanding that all Romans, throughout the empire, make a show of sacrifice to the gods. \"Libelli\" were signed in Fayum in June and July 250 as demonstrations of this sacrifice. If the persecutions of Maximin and Septimius Severus are dismissed as fiction, Decius' edict was without precedent. If the Christians were believed to be Philip's friends (as Dionysius of Alexandria presents them), however, it might help explain Decius' motivations.\n\nThe ancient traditions regarding Philip's Christianity can be divided into three categories: the Eusebian, or Caesarean; the Antiochene; and the Latin. The Eusebian tradition consists of Eusebius, bishop of Caesarea's \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" and the documents excerpted and cited therein, including the letters of Origen and Dionysius, bishop of Alexandria. The Antiochene tradition consists of the John Chrysostom's homily \"de S. Babyla\" and Leontius, bishop of Antioch's entries in the \"Chronicon Paschale\". Most scholars hold that these accounts ultimately derive from Eusebius of Caesarea's \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" (\"Ecclesiastical History\"), but some, like Irfan Shahîd, posit that Antioch had an independent oral tradition.\n\nThe most significant author to discuss Philip the Arab and Christianity is Eusebius, who served as bishop of Caesarea in Roman Palestine from \"ca\". 314 to his death in 339. Eusebius' major work is the \"Historia Ecclesiastica\", written in several editions dating from \"ca\". 300 to 325. The \"Historia\" is not an attempt at a full history of the Church in the classical style, but rather a collection of facts addressing six topics in Christian history from the Apostolic times to the late 3rd century: (1) lists of bishops of major sees; (2) Christian teachers and their writings; (3) heresies; (4) the tribulations of the Jews; (5) the persecutions of Christians by pagan authorities; and (6) the martyrs. His \"Vita Constantini\", written between Constantine's death in 337 and Eusebius' own death in 339, is a combination of eulogistic encomium and continuation of the \"Historia\" (the two separate documents were combined and distributed by Eusebius' successor in the see of Caesarea, Acacius).\n\nFive references in Eusebius' \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" speak to Philip's Christianity; three directly, two by implication. At 6.34, he describes Philip visiting a church on Easter Eve and being denied entry by the presiding bishop because he had not yet confessed his sins. The bishop goes unnamed. At 6.36.3, he writes of letters from the Christian theologian Origen to Philip and to Philip's wife, Marcia Otacilia Severa. At 6.39, Eusebius writes that Decius persecuted Christians because he hated Philip. The remaining two references are quotations or paraphrases of Dionysius, bishop of Alexandria, a contemporary of Philip (he held the patriarchate from 247 to 265). At 6.41.9, Dionysius contrasts the tolerant Philip's rule with the intolerant Decius'. At 7.10.3, Dionysius implies that Alexander Severus (emperor from 222 to 235) and Philip were both openly Christian.\n\nMost arguments regarding Philip's Christianity hinge on Eusebius' account of the emperor's visit to a church at 6.34. In the words of the 17th-century ecclesiastical historian Louis-Sébastien Le Nain de Tillemont, it is the \"la ſeule action en laquelle on ſache qu'il ait honoré l'Église\", the \"only action in which we know him to have honored the Church\".\n\nIn Shahîd's reconstruction, this event took place at Antioch on 13 April 244, while the emperor was on his way back to Rome from the Persian front. The 12th-century Byzantine historian Zonaras repeats the story.\n\nEusebius introduces his account of Philip's visit with the words κατέχει λόγος' (\"katechei logos\"). The precise meaning of these words in modern European languages has been contested. Ernst Stein, in an account challenging the veracity of Eusebius' narrative, translated the phrase as \"gerüchte\", or \"rumor\"; the scholar John Gregg translated it as \"the saying goes\". Other renderings are possible, however; modern English translations of the \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" have \"it is recorded\" or \"it is reported\", as in the translation quoted above. The historian Robin Lane Fox, who translates \"logos\" as \"story\" or \"rumor\" in scare quotes, emphasizes that Eusebius draws a distinction between his \"story\" about Philip and the other material in the passage.\n\nThe substantiative issue involved is the nature of Eusebius' source; where \"gerüchte\" suggests hearsay (Frend explains that Eusebius' κατέχει λόγος' \"usually means mere suggestion\"), \"it is recorded\" suggests documentation. Given that Eusebius' major sources for 3rd-century history were written records, Shahîd contends that the typical translation misrepresents the original text. His source here is probably one of the two letters from Origen to Philip and Marcia Otacilia Severa, Philip's wife, mentioned at 6.36.3. Shahîd argues that an oral source is unlikely given that Eusebius composed his \"Historia\" in Caesarea and not Antioch; but others, like Stein and theologian Arthur Cushman McGiffert, editor and translator of the \"Historia\" for the \"Select Library of Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers\", contend nonetheless that the story has an oral source.\n\nShahîd's position is reinforced by C. H. Roberts and A. N. Sherwin-White, who reviewed his \"Rome and the Arabs\" before publication. That is, that the proper interpretation of κατέχει λόγος is as a reference to a written account. Roberts notes that Χριστιανὸν ὄντα (\"Christianon onta\", \"being a Christian\") was probably an editorial insertion by Eusebius, and not included in the \"logos\" he relates in the passage. Shahîd takes this as an indication that Eusebius did indeed vouch for Philip's Christianity. Roberts suggested that κατέχει λόγος might be translated as \"there is a wide-spread report\", but added that a broader study of Eusebius' use of the expression elsewhere would be useful. Sherwin-White points out Eusebius' use of the phrase in his passage on the Thundering Legion (at \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" 5.5), where it represents a reference to written sources.\n\nHowever, because Eusebius nowhere categorically asserts that he has read the letters (he only says that he has compiled them) and as moderns are disinclined to take him at his word, some, like Pohlsander, posit that Eusebius did not get the tale from the letters, and drew it instead from oral rumors. Whatever the case, the wording of the passage shows that Eusebius is unenthusiastic about his subject and skeptical of its significance. Jerome and the Latin Christian authors following him do not share his caution.\n\nFor many scholars, the scene at 6.34 seems to anticipate and parallel the confrontation between Theodosius and Ambrose in 390; Erasmus used the two situations as parallel \"exempla\" in a letter written to Francis I in 1523. That later event has been taken as evidence against Philip's Christianity. Even in the later 4th century, in a society that had already been significantly Christianized, the argument goes, Theodosius' humiliation had shocked the sensibilities of the aristocratic elite. It is therefore inconceivable that 3rd century aristocrats, members of a society that had experienced only partial Christianization, would accept such self-abasement from their emperors. Shahîd contests this parallel, and argues that Philip's scene was far less humiliating than Theodosius': it did not take place against the same background (Theodosius had massacred seven thousand Thessalonicans some months before), no one was excommunicated (Theodosius was excommunicated for eight months), and it did not involve the same dramatic and humiliating dialogue between emperor and bishop. Philip made a quick repentance at a small church on his way back to Rome from the Persian front, a stark contrast to the grandeur of Theodosius' confrontation with Ambrose.\n\nOther scholars, such as ecclesiastical historian H. M. Gwatkin, explain Philip's alleged visit to the church as evidence of simple \"curiosity\". That he was excluded from services is not surprising: as a \"heathen\" in official conduct, and, as an unbaptized man, it would have been unusual if he had been admitted. Shahîd rejects idle curiosity as an explanation, arguing that 3rd-century churches were too nondescript to attract much undue attention. That Philip was unbaptized is nowhere proven or stated, and, even if true, it would do little to explain the scene: Constantine participated in Christian services despite postponing baptism to the end of his life—and participation in services without baptism was not unusual for Christians of either period.\n\n</poem>\nAt 6.41, Eusebius quotes a letter from Dionysius, bishop of Alexandria, to Fabius, bishop of Antioch, on the persecution at Alexandria under Decius. He begins (at 6.41.1) by describing the pogroms which began a year before Decius' decree of 250; that is, in 249, under Philip. At 6.41.9, Dionysius narrates the transition from Philip to Decius.\n\nAt 7.10.3, Eusebius quotes a letter from Dionysius to the otherwise-unknown Hermammon on the early years of Valerian's (r. 253–260) rule. In this period the emperor implicitly tolerated Christianity; Eusebius would contrast his early reputation with his later policy of persecution.\n\nDionysius is quoted saying that Valerian was so friendly to Christians that he outdid \"those who were said to be openly Christians\" (οἰ λεχθέντες ἀναφανδὸν Χριοτιανοὶ γεγονέναι, tr. Shahîd). Most scholars, Shahîd and Stein included, understand this as a reference to Severus Alexander and Philip. Because the reference is to a plurality of emperors, implying that Severus Alexander and Philip were both Christians, Stein dismissed the passage as entirely without evidentiary value. Shahîd, however, contends that genuine information can be extracted from the spurious whole, and that, while the reference to Severus Alexander is hyperbole, the reference to Philip is not. He explains the reference to Severus Alexander as a Christian as an exaggeration of what was actually only an interest in the Christian religion. Shahîd references a passage in the often-dubious \"Historia Augusta\"s biography of the emperor, which states that Alexander had statues of Abraham, Christ, and Orpheus in his private chapel, and that he prayed to them each morning. He also adduces the letters sent from Origen to Alexander's mother Mamaea (Eusebius, \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" 6.21, 6.28) to explain Dionysius' comment.\n\nOrigen's letters do not survive. However, most scholars believe that the letters that circulated in the era of Eusebius and Jerome were genuine. It is also reasonable that Origen, a man with close contacts in the Christian Arab community, would have taken a particular interest in the first Arab emperor. The scholar K. J. Neumann argued that, since Origen would have known the faith of the imperial couple, he must have written about it in the letters listed at 6.36.3. Since Eusebius read these letters, and does not mention that the emperor was Christian (Neumann understands the passage at 6.34 to reflect Eusebius' disbelief in Philip's Christianity), we must conclude that Philip was not Christian, and was neither baptized nor made catechumen. Against Neumann, Shahîd argues that, if Eusebius had found anything in the letters to disprove Philip's Christianity, he would have clearly outlined it in this passage—as the biographer of Constantine, it would have been in his interest to undermine any other claimants to the title \"first Christian emperor\". Moreover, this segment of the \"Historia\" is a catalog of Origen's works and correspondence; the contents of the letters are irrelevant.\n\nEusebius' understanding of the Arab peoples is informed by his reading of the Bible and his knowledge of the history of imperial Rome. He does not appear to have personally known any Arabs. In his \"Chronicon\", all the Arabs that appear—save for one reference to Ishmael—figure in the political history of the first three centuries of the Christian era. To Eusebius, the Saracens of the 4th century are direct-line descendants of the biblical Ishmaelites, descendants of the handmaid, Hagar, and the patriarch, Abraham. They are thus outcasts, beyond God's Covenant with the favored son of Abraham, Isaac. The twin images of the Ishmaelite and the Saracen—outcasts and \"latrones\", raiders of the frontiers—reinforce each other and give Eusebius' portrait of the Arab nation an unhappy color. He may have been reluctant to associate the first Christian emperor with a people of such unfortunate ancestry.\n\nIn his \"Historia\", Eusebius does not identify either Philip or Abgar V of Edessa (whom he incorrectly presumed to be the first Christian prince; he does not mention Abgar VIII, who was actually the first Christian prince), as Arabs. He does, however, identify Herod the Great as an Arab, thus tarring the Arab nation with the Massacre of the Innocents and the attempted murder of Christ himself. The Christianity of Provincia Arabia in the 3rd century also earns some brief notices: the heresy of Beryllos, bishop of Bostra, and his correction by Origen (6.33); the heretical opinions concerning the soul held by a group of Arabs until corrected by Origen (6.37); and the heresy of Helkesaites (6.38). Eusebius' account of Philip appears amidst these Arab heresies (at 6.34, 6.36, and 6.39), although, again—and in spite of the fact that Philip so often took on the epithet \"the Arab\", in antiquity as today—he never identifies him as an Arab. The image of the Arabs as heretics would persist in later ecclesiastical historians (like Epiphanius of Salamis). Shahîd, relating these facts, nonetheless concludes that \"Eusebius cannot be accused in the account he gave of the Arabs and their place in the history of Christianity.\" The fact that he downplayed the role of Philip and Abgar in the establishment of Christianity as a state religion is understandable, given his desire to prop up Constantine's reputation.\n\nIn Shahîd's judgment, the imprecision and unemphatic tone of Eusebius' passage at 6.34 is the major cause of the lack of scholarly consensus on Philip's Christianity. To Shahîd, Eusebius' wording choice is a reflection of his own lack of enthusiasm for Philip's Christianity, which is in turn a reflection of the special position Constantine held in his regards and in his written work. A number of scholars, following E. Schwartz, believe the later editions of Eusebius' \"Historia\" to have been extensively revised to adapt to the deterioration of Licinius in the public memory (and official \"damnatio memoriae\") after Constantine deposed and executed him in 324–25. Passages of the \"Historia\" incompatible with Licinius' denigration were suppressed, and an account of the last years of his life was replaced with a summary of the Council of Nicaea. Shahîd suggests that, in addition to these anti-Licinian deletions, Eusebius also edited out favorable notices on Philip to better glorify Constantine's achievement.\n\nIn 335, Eusebius wrote and delivered his \"Laudes Constantini\", a panegyric on the thirtieth anniversary of the emperor's reign; his \"Vita Constantini\", written over the next two years, has the same laudatory tone. The ecclesiastical historian, who framed his chronology on the reigns of emperors and related the entries in his history to each emperor's reign, understood Constantine's accession as something miraculous, especially as it came immediately after the Great Persecution. The final edition of his \"Historia\" has its climax in Constantine's reign, the ultimate \"triumph of Christianity\". Shahîd argues, it was therefore in his authorial interest to obscure the details of Philip, the first Christian emperor; hence, because of Eusebius' skill in narrative and deception, modern historians give Constantine that title.\n\nShahîd further argues that the facts of Philip's alleged Christianity would also discourage Eusebius from celebrating that emperor. Firstly, Philip lacks an exciting conversion narrative; secondly, his religion was private, unlike Constantine's very public patronage of the faith; and, thirdly, his reign only lasted five years, not long enough to enact much amelioration of the Christians' condition. In Shahîd's view, the insignificance of his reign to the progress of Christianity, Eusebius' subject, combined with Eusebius' role as Constantine's panegyrist, explain the tone and content of his account.\n\nF. H. Daniel, in Philip's entry in the Smith–Wace \"Dictionary of Christian Biography\", cites a passage of Eusebius' \"Vita Constantini\" as his first piece of evidence against Philip's alleged Christianity. In the passage, Eusebius names Constantine as (in the words of the dictionary) \"the first Christian emperor\".\n\nShahîd describes this passage as a mere flourish from Eusebius the panegyrist, \"carried away by enthusiasm and whose statements must be construed as rhetorical exaggeration\"; he does not take it as serious evidence against Eusebius' earlier accounts in the \"Historia\", where he never refers to Constantine as the first Christian emperor. For Shahîd, the passage also represents the last stage in Eusebius' evolving portrait of the pair of emperors, Philip and Constantine: in the early 300s, in his \"Chronicon\", he had nearly called Philip the first Christian emperor; in the 320s, during the revision of the \"Historia\" and the \"Chronicon\", he turned wary and skeptical; in the late 330s, he could confidently assert that Constantine was the sole Christian emperor. John York argues that, in writing this passage, Eusebius was cowed by the anti-Licinian propaganda of the Constantinian era: as an ancestor of the emperor's last enemy, Philip could not receive the special distinction of the title \"first Christian emperor\"—Constantine had claimed it for himself. Perhaps, Shahîd observes, it is not coincidental that Eusebius would paint the Arabs in uncomplimentary terms (as idolaters and practitioners of human sacrifice) in his \"Laudes Constantini\" of 335.\n\nJohn Chrysostom, deacon at Antioch from 381, was made priest in 386. As a special distinction, his bishop, Flavian, decided that he should preach in the city's principal church. Chrysostom's contribution to the literature on Philip and Christianity is a homily on Babylas, a martyr-bishop who died in 253, during the Decian persecution. The treatise was composed about 382, when John was a deacon, and forms part of Chrysostom's corpus of panegyrics. Chrysostom's Babylas confronts an emperor; and, since Chrysostom is more interested in the bishop than his opponent, the emperor goes unnamed. He has since been identified with Philip.\n\nLeontius was bishop of Antioch from 348 to 357. He is quoted in the \"Chronicon Paschale\", or \"Paschal Chronicle\", a universal chronicle of history based on the paschal cycle, as an authority on the martyrdom of Babylas. The quotation describes Philip seeking penitence from Babylas for the sin of murdering his predecessor.\n\nChrysostom and Leontius both lived in Antioch, the site of Philip's alleged humiliation and repentance, and wrote in the mid-4th century, one hundred years after the event took place. Shahîd takes this, along with the fact that Babylas is not named in Eusebius' account, as evidence of an independent local tradition. This tradition would have been perhaps partially oral in nature, and far removed from the written accounts in Eusebius' library at Caesarea. Many other historians trace Chrysostom and Leontius' accounts back to Eusebius: Hans Pohlsander counts Chrysostom and Leontius' accounts as later accretions to Eusebius original account, dependent on his \"Historia\" for their legendary core; John Gregg holds that this dependent relationship is most probable; and Stein claims all three Greeks as contributors to the same \"gerüchte\".\n\nThe Latin tradition consists of three authors writing in the later 4th and early 5th centuries—Jerome, Orosius, and Vincent of Lérins. The tradition is represented in Jerome's \"Liber de viris inlustribus\" and \"Chronicon\", Orosius' \"Historiarum Adversum Paganos\", and Vincent of Lérins' \"Commonitorum Primum\". Most scholars hold that all of these accounts ultimately derive from Eusebius of Caesarea's \"Historia\". These authors follow the Greek tradition, and probably takes all of their information from Eusebius, Eusebius' sources, or Jerome. These authors are more forceful in their claims than Eusebius, as demonstrated by their use of \"primus\", or \"first\", as in \"first Christian emperor\", when referring to Philip. Jerome is the most important, both since he is the earliest of the three, and because, as the editor and translator of Eusebius' \"Chronicon\" (\"Chronicle\"), he is closest to Eusebius.\n\nEusebius' first version of the \"Chronicon\" was written in 303, and his second in the mid-320s; Jerome's revision, translation and continuation dates to 380. The original Greek is lost; it is largely through Jerome's Latin and through an Armenian translation unrelated to Jerome that the substance of the original survives. Eusebius' original did cover Philip's rule—Jerome's continuation of the \"Chronicon\" only covers the period from 325 to 378—but the sections regarding Philip's Christianity do not survive in the Armenian translation. In the Armenian, all references to Arabs are omitted. Philip's celebration of the millennium is preserved, while his supposed Christianity is only implied in the entry on Decius' persecution. Jerome's \"Chronicon\" is, therefore, the nearest we can get to Eusebius' early statements on Philip's Christianity. That Jerome calls Philip \"primus\" in the \"Chronicon\" thus admits of two interpretations: either he found it in Eusebius, or he added it independently, based on other sources available to him. Shahîd argues that, while the text would offer a strong case for Philip's Christianity either way, the former interpretation is more plausible. Shahîd believes that \"primus\" appeared in Eusebius first version of the \"Chronicon\", but may have been edited out for the second version—by the mid 320s, Eusebius had become Constantine's panegyrist, and was understandably loath to praise his subject's ignoble predecessors.\n\nIn his \"Liber de viris inlustribus\", written twelve years later, in 392, Jerome mentions Philip in his chapter on Origen.\n\nThe passage contains two important features: first, the statement that the letters of Origen to Philip and his family were still extant in Jerome's time; and second, a strong affirmation of Philip's Christianity. The sentence also contains the false reference to Philip's mother (\"matrem\") as the recipient of a letter from Origen—it was actually Philip's wife who received it. Jerome probably confused her with Alexander Severus' mother Mammaea. Bowersock characterizes the whole passage as a \"confused copy\" of Eusebius' evidence. Shahîd understands \"\"quae usque hodie extant\" to mean that Jerome had read the letters; that he refers to Philip as \"primus\" would thus mean that he either found positive evidence for Philip's Christianity in them or, at least, that he found nothing to disprove it.\n\nJerome otherwise had a dim view of the Arabs. His prejudices were those of a native Roman. Born in Strido (in modern Croatia or Slovenia), near Aquileia, and educated in Rome, Jerome was a lover of Latin, Italy, and the city of Rome. In about 374, he found himself accused in a dream while in Antioch on the way to Palestine: \"Ciceronianus es, non Christianus\"\", \"you are a Ciceronian, not a Christian\". In one of his letters, written while he was staying in the desert of Chalcis, he tells of the joy he had when he discovered that his correspondents had written a letter to him in Latin. All he had to hear during the day were the \"barbarous\" languages of the natives (that is, Syriac and Arabic). From this evidence, Shahîd concludes that Jerome would not honor the memory of an Arab emperor without a strong rationale.\n\nTo Orosius, Constantine was the first Christian Roman emperor, except for Philip (he was the \"primus imperatorum Christianus, excepto Philippo\"). He probably took this judgment from Jerome—he had met the author in Bethlehem in 415, while on assignment from Augustine of Hippo. Although his judgment is thus not independent of Jerome, Shahîd contends that it is nonetheless valuable since Orosius did not have a bias towards either emperor. It presents Philip in the role Christian history merited: as precursor to Constantine. Because Orosius' \"Historiae adversum paganos\" served as the standard manual of universal history during the middle ages, his judgment on this matter was inherited, and generally accepted, by medieval European writers.\n\nOrosius' wording is echoed by the \"Origo Constantini Imperatoris\", an anonymous work usually dated to the late 4th century. \"Constantine was also the first Christian emperor, with the exception of Philippus, who seemed to me to have become a Christian merely in order that the one-thousandth year of Rome might be dedicated to Christ rather than to pagan idols.\" (\"\"Item Constantinus imperator primus Christianus, excepto Philippo, qui Christianus admodum ad hoc tantum constitutus fuisse mihi visus est, ut millesimus Romae annus Christo potius quam idolis dicaretur\", tr. J.C. Rolfe) The scholar Samuel N. C. Lieu holds that this passage is a later interpolation, designed to give the work's pagan core a Christian gloss. According to Lieu, this passage, along with others, was probably taken from Orosius' history and inserted into the \"Origo Constantini\" during the reign of Constantine III (r. 417–21), a period that witnessed substantial anti-pagan polemic. Shahîd argues that, since the author of the \"Origo Constantini\" was a biographer of Constantine, and not a historian of the 3rd and 4th centuries, his reference to Philip is unnecessary. The conflicting claims of Philip and Constantine to primacy may have been at issue at the turn of the 5th century, when the \"Origo Constantini\" and \"Historia adversum paganos\" were written.\n\nIn the chapter on Origen in Vincent of Lérins' \"Commonitorium primum\", Vincent writes: \"quos ad Philippum imperatorem, qui primus romanorum principum Christianus fuit, Christiani magisterii acutoritate conscripsit.\"\"; \"with the authority which [Origen] assumed as a Christian Teacher, he wrote to the Emperor Philip, the first Roman prince that was a Christian.\" Vincent thus unites the commentary on Origen's letters with Philip's Christianity, as Jerome had done. It is possible that he was only following Jerome in so doing, but Shahîd argues that his note that the letters were written \"Christiani magisterii auctoritate\" implies that he has read the letters. Additionally, the variance between his wording and Jerome's (Vincent refers to Philip as a \"princeps\", not a \"rex\", and he calls the letters \"epistolae\", not \"litterae\"), speaks for Vincent's independence of Jerome.\n\nZosimus, a pagan writing at the turn of the 6th century, wrote a work titled the \"Historia Nova\" (\"New History\"). Its detailed sections cover the period from the 3rd century AD to 410. Zosimus, like all secular historians in his era, addressed himself to the governing class of the later Roman empire: officers, bureaucrats, and the landed aristocracy. There was relatively little overlap between the reading audience of secular histories and the ecclesiastical histories of Eusebius and his successors. For most of the period it covers, the \"Historia\" is the most valuable—and sometimes the only—available source. Zosimus' history was written as a polemic, with the aim of establishing that barbarism and Christianity were the essential causes of the decline of the Roman state. Because of these themes, the \"Historia Nova\" is considered the first history of what moderns would call Rome's \"decline and fall\". Although skilled in literary rhetoric, Zosimus was a poor historian. He confuses dates and persons, is ignorant of geography, and treats his sources with naive simplicity. For the 3rd century, Zosimus follows Eunapius of Sardis and Olympiodorus of Thebes in Egypt. Since Eunapius' history began in 272, where the \"Chronicle\" of another historian, Dexippus, ended, Zosimus probably used Dexippus' \"Chronicle\", and perhaps his histories of the German wars between 250 and 270. Dexippus, however, was as poor a historian as Zosimus. The surviving fragments of his work show an uncritical author, without strong sources, who prefers rhetoric to fact. (The secular sources for this period are all quite weak.) Zosimus, like all ancient secular historians of the era, says nothing of Philip's alleged Christianity.\n\nZosimus had no great respect for Philip, and offers an unfavorable judgment on his reign. Nonetheless, he offers a curiously detailed narrative of his reign. He devotes five sections of his \"Historia Nova\" to the emperor (1.18–22)—more than Alexander Severus, who only gets half a section (1.8). He even reverts to Philip in the midst of a discussion of the Peace of Jovian (363) two books later (at 3.32), taking the opportunity to recall Philip's own \"disgraceful\" peace with the Persians. In Shahîd's judgment, Zosimus makes this editorial decision to emphasize his central theme—the decline and \"barbarization\" of Rome. Zosimus' views on the latter phenomenon reflect his racial prejudice, and his account of Philip carries anti-Semitic overtones. In Zosimus' view, Philip was a barbarian operating at the highest levels of power. The unsavory character of Philip is contrasted with his ethnically Roman predecessor, Gordian (who Philip helped overthrow), and his Roman successor, Decius, who wins glowing praise from the historian.\n\nAs he disliked both Arabs and Christians, some scholars, such as Bowersock, have taken Zosimus' silence on the matter as strong evidence against Philip's alleged Christianity. Others, like historian Warwick Ball, view Zosimus' evident distaste for Philip as noteworthy, and suggest that Zosimus' anti-Christian polemic is indirect in his writing on the emperor. Shahîd construes Zosimus' silence as an argument for Philip's Christianity. Zosimus, he argues, would never have shown such distaste for a pagan. Septimius Severus was a \"barbarian\", an African born at Leptis Magna whose mother tongue was Phoenician and whose wife, Julia Domna, was a provincial from Emesa. But Severus gets a good press from Zosimus (1.8). Nor would Philip's assistance in the execution of Gordian be enough: the 3rd century was hardly a stranger to such bloodshed and treachery. Zosimus' hostility begins to makes sense, Shahîd contends, once we assume that he was aware of the tradition that viewed Philip as the first Christian emperor (and perhaps even accepted it). And it becomes perfectly clear once we understand the importance Zosimus attributes to the Secular Games, and the schematic incongruity he would behold when a Christian emperor was presiding over them.\n\nIn 248, Philip held Secular Games (\"Ludi Saeculares\") to celebrate the thousandth anniversary of Rome's legendary founding by Romulus. It is presumed that he would have officiated over the games in his capacity as \"pontifex maximus\", chief priest of the state cults. Allard accepts that he made no public notice of his private religion, and that he ran the games as a \"prince païen\", a \"pagan prince\". Pohlsander cites a number of early Christian theologians in support of his contention that \"Christians generally condemned 'games' of any kind.\" Tertullian's \"de Spectaculis\", Novatian's treatise of the same name (which does not survive), and Cyprian's disapproving comments in his \"ad Donatum\" are offered as examples. The later followers of Jerome, however, like Orosius and Bede, mention Philip's games approvingly—Orosius even claims that Philip did not sacrifice during the games. Pohlsander concedes that public games continued under Christian emperors throughout the 4th century (they were eventually outlawed in 404 under Honorius).\n\nZosimus provides the lengthiest account of the games (at \"Historia Nova\" 2.1–7), but does not mention Philip. The games had a starring role in Zosimus' scheme of Roman history. To him, the fortune of the empire was intimately related to the practice of the traditional civic rites. Any emperor who revived or supported those rites—Augustus, Claudius, Domitian, Septimius Severus—earns Zosimus' credit, while the emperor who ended them, Constantine I, earns his condemnation. All the misfortune of the 4th century can be directly attributed to Constantine's discontinuation of the old rites. In this context, Shahîd argues, Zosimus' silence on Philip's Christianity and Philip's involvement in the games makes sense. First, it would have given lie to his thesis on that the practice of the traditional rites guaranteed the fortunes of empire, since the period following the games was hardly a happy one (and this argument remains valid even if both Philip's Christianity and Zosimus' awareness of the tradition is denied). And second, it would have dulled his attack on Constantine by disentangling the potent alignment between imperial disaster, Christianity, and the traditional cult. The last emperor to celebrate the games was also the first emperor to embrace Christianity. The incongruity of this fact proved too much for the historian to handle, so he ignored it.\n\nBecause of the continuing popularity of Jerome's \"Chronicon\" and Orosius' \"Historia\", the medieval writers who wrote about Philip called him the first Christian emperor. The \"Chronica Gallica\" of 452, Prosper of Aquitaine (d. \"ca\". 455), Cassiodorus (d. \"ca\". 585), Jordanes (fl. 551), Isidore of Seville (d. 636), and Bede (d. 735) all follow Jerome on this point. One early medieval historian writing at the eve of the millennium, the Lombard Landolfus Sagax, held that Philip had confessed to Fabian, Bishop of Rome, instead of Babylas.\n\nBy the late 17th century, when Tillemont wrote his \"Histoire des Empereurs\", it was no longer possible to make the argument that Philip was a Christian \"ſans difficulté\", \"without difficulty\". And when Jean-Baptiste Louis Crévier wrote his \"L'Histoire des empereurs des Romains, jusqu'à Constantin\" in 1749, he affirmed the contrary, that Philip was not a Christian at all: \"...it is easy to judge what degree of credit ought to be given to this story of his penance; which, besides, is not fully and exactly related by any ancient author. To make out an account of it any way tolerable, they have been obliged to patch several evidences together, and to supply and alter the one by the other. The shortest and safest course is not to admit of a perplexed and ill supported narrative. We have no great temptation to torture history in order to claim such a Christian.\"\n\nEdward Gibbon, in the first volume of his \"History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" (1776), would take the same position: \"The public and even partial favour of Philip towards the sectaries of the new religion, and his constant reverence for the ministers of the church, gave some colour to the suspicion, which prevailed in his own times, that the emperor himself was become a convert to the faith; and afforded some grounds for a fable which was afterwards invented, that he had been purified by confession and penance from the guilt contracted by the murder of his innocent predecessor.\" And the fable has—\"as usual\"—\"been embellished\". To Gibbon, the matter is \"curious, rather than important\", and the man he credits with disposing of it, Friedrich Spanheim (d. 1649), is said to have shown \"much superfluous learning\" in the task.\n\nFrench historians of the 19th and 20th century were more favorable to the notion. Paul Allard, in his \"Histoire des persecutions pendant la premiere moitié du troisième siecle\" (1881); René Aigrain, in his chapter \"Arabie\" in the \"Dictionnaire d'Histoire et de Géographie Ecclésiastique\"; Henri Grégoire, in \"Les persécutions dans l'empire romain\" (1964); and Jean Daniélou and Henri-Irénée Marrou, in \"The Christian Centuries\" 1: \"The First Six Hundred Years\" (English tr., 1964), all strongly supported the notion. English and German scholars were less likely to accept it. Ecclesiastical historians of the 19th century, like John Mason Neale, B. J. Kidd, and H. M. Gwatkin, gave the notion some credence, but less than their full support. Critical historians, like Ernst Stein, Karl Johannes Neumann, and John Gregg, denied it entirely.\n\nIn the late 20th century, a small number of articles and book chapters discussed the matter. John York's \"The Image of Philip the Arab\" (1972) argued that the literary material on Philip's reign was deeply biased against the emperor. York attempted to correct the narrative, and rehabilitate Philip's reputation. He held that Eusebius' \"logos\" was derived from an oral tradition originating in Antioch, and that Origen's letters cannot have definitively proven Philip's Christianity, since (he follows Jerome's \"Liber de viris inlustribus\" 54 here) those letters were addressed to Philip's son. Because of this fact, York declared that Philip's Christianity was only \"probable\", not certain. H. Crouzel's \"Le christianisme de l'empereur Philippe l'Arabe\" (1975) argued that the Antiochene tradition, as represented by Chrysostom and Leontius, was independent of Eusebius, and that Eusebius was, likewise, ignorant of it. The sources of Eusebius' \"logos\" were instead Origen's letters to Philip and Severa. Crouzel is not entirely certain on this point; it is only \"très probable\", \"very probable\". In spite of Crouzel's arguments, Pierre Nautin's \"Origène\" (1977) was very skeptical of accounts of Philip's Christianity, and Hans Pohlsander's \"Philip the Arab and Christianity\" (1980), adducing Philip's commitment to traditional civic religion as evidence, denied all accounts of Philip's Christianity.\n\nIn a lengthy chapter of his 1984 book \"Rome and the Arabs\", Irfan Shahîd argued that Philip deserved the title of \"First Christian Emperor\". The chapter is divided into five parts: (1) a brief listing of the sources; (2) a lengthy address to Ernst Stein's arguments against accounts of Philip's Christianity; (3) an explanation of Eusebius' caution and dissimulation; (4) an exposition of the Latin authors' accounts of Philip's Christianity; and (5) Eusebius' relationship with the unnamed bishop in his passage, Babylas, and Babylas' importance in ecclesiastical history. He follows the main body of the chapter with an appendix addressing the articles by York, Crouzel, and Pohlsander, \"Philip the Arab and Christianity\", and noting the judgments of the scholars who reviewed his draft.\n\nCurrently, there is no consensus on the issue of Philip's Christianity. Timothy Barnes, who reviewed Shahîd's chapters on \"The First Christian Emperor\" and \"Eusebius and the Arabs\" in 1979, would only say that Eusebius \"[presents] Philip as a Christian\", in his \"Constantine and Eusebius\" (1981). Warwick Ball, author of \"Rome and the East: The transformation of an empire\" (2000), argued in favor of Philip's Christianity. David Potter, author of \"The Roman Empire at Bay\" (2004), treated the matter dismissively: accounts of Philip's Christianity were simply \"bogus\", Potter wrote, and works that accepted them should be treated with less respect on that count alone. Some scholars, like Glen Bowersock, took a middle route. Bowersock, reviewing Shahîd's \"Rome and the Arabs\" for the \"Classical Review\" in 1986, wrote: \"I doubt many will be convinced by the extreme position that [Shahîd] has taken, but his arguments do offer some basis for believing that Philip was seriously interested in the religion\". He reiterated that view in his \"Roman Arabia\" (1980, 3rd rev. ed. 1994).\n\nFor the French Byzantinologist Gilbert Dagron, Philip's Christianity is a legend—albeit a very old one—that intended, in a Late Roman/Early Byzantine context, to foster the idea of a Roman Empire that was Christian almost from the beginning, thereby melding Roman Imperial ideology and Christianism, and therefore offering a base for other later legends showing Roman emperors, beginning with Augustus , to be aware and/or sympathetic to Christian revelation, forming a legendary corpus that was brought together during the 6th century by the chronicler John Malalas.\n\n\nAll citations to the \"Historia Augusta\" are to individual biographies, and are marked with a \"HA\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42720898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42720898", "title": "Pony Express Bible", "text": "Pony Express Bible\n\nThe special edition leather-bound Bible was given to all the employees by the operators Russell, Majors and Waddell. Its dimensions are about 5.7 inches (14.5 cm) tall by 3.6 inches (9.1 cm) wide and a little over 2 inches thick. It has 1,278 double-columned pages.\n\nThe copies of the Bible were specifically commissioned by Alexander Majors and contained full versions of both the Old and New Testaments. The firm had originally purchased these special copies for their company's wagon-train employees. The Bibles had gold lettering on the cover with a contemporary inscription and the wording, \"Presented by Russell, Majors & Waddell. 1858\". The source for the Old and New Testaments was an 1858 King James Version published by the American Bible Society in New York City.\n\nOn commencing employment, a Pony Express rider was given one of the special edition Bibles. The rider had to swear to and sign the \"frontier pledge\" of loyalty, honesty, and sobriety, that was on the inside front cover of the Bible:\n\nIt appears that the 183 riders employed from April 1860 to November 1861 did not take the pledge very seriously as, on the whole, they were considered dreadful, rough and unconventional.\n\nAlexander Majors, one of the original operators of the Pony Express, had religious convictions and required certain principles be held that he related to the Christian Bible. Examples were not to swear in public or drink intoxicating alcoholic beverages and that each rider was to honor Sunday as a day of rest. Initially the Pony Express riders were issued certain pieces of equipment to carry, which included a bowie knife, and the Pony Express Bible. Later, most of this hardware was abandoned because it was too heavy to carry and looked upon as extra unnecessary items for their journey. Some sources say that the riders carried the Bible given them, at least in the beginning. Other sources say the riders never carried their Bible since it added weight that would slow down the pony they were riding. Many of the riders took only a single pistol with an extra cylinder of bullets on their rides. Some didn't even take a gun, depending instead on the speed of their pony for their greatest defense against hostilities.\n\nThe Forty-fifth Annual Report of the American Bible Society shows 300 copies of the Bibles granted May 9, 1861, to Major and Russell by the American Bible Society. Of as the last record known of a 1960 'census' there were 12 copies left in existence. There have been only two of these Bibles that were made available for public purchase since 1980.\n\n\nThe Pony Express route that the riders used went through the Territories of Utah, Nebraska and Kansas sharing relay stations with the Butterfield Overland Mail Company stagecoach line. The Overland Mail Company eventually did take over the western portion of the Pony Express route that went to Sacramento, California, when the Pony Express firm was dissolved in 1861. The Pony Express route went through what are now the states of Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, and California.\n\nThe Overland Mail Company station operators likely had copies of the American Bible Society's 1859 edition of the Bible similar to the 1858 Pony Express Bible.\n\nOn the \"Pawn Stars\" television program in season 8, episode 55 called \"Ponies and Phonies\" (April 24, 2014), the Overland Mail Company Bible is compared to the Pony Express Bible by rare book consultant Rebecca Romney.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19607747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19607747", "title": "Psilocybe caerulescens", "text": "Psilocybe caerulescens\n\nPsilocybe caerulescens, also known as Landslide mushroom (\"derrumbe\" in Spanish), is a psilocybin mushroom having psilocybin and psilocin as main active compounds. Along with \"Psilocybe mexicana\" and \"Psilocybe aztecorum\", it is one of the mushrooms likely to have been used by the Aztecs and is currently used by Mazatec shamans for its entheogenic properties.\n\nThe taste and smell of \"Psilocybe caerulescens\" are strongly farinaceous, reminiscent of cucumber, though the smell lessens with age or when dry.\n\nThe cap is (1)3–7(10) cm broad. to obtusely campanulate with an incurved margin at first, rarely becoming plane, and often are umbonate or with a slight depression in the center. It is viscid when moist from a separable gelatinous pellicle. The margin is slightly translucent-striate when moist. The cap is hygrophanous, yellowish brown to reddish brown with a silvery-blue metallic luster, paler at the margin, and drying to a beige or straw yellow. It readily bruises blue when handled, the younger specimens bruising bluish olivacous or even blackish. The cap often has a great variation in color and form.\n\nThe gills are adnate to sinuate and close to subclose. They are whitish, yellowish grey when young, becoming dark violaceous brown to sepia brown with age; the edges remain slightly whitish.<br>\n\"Psilocybe caerulescens\" spores are dark violaceous brown.\n\nThe stipe is (2)5–9(13) cm long and (5)8–10(12) mm thick. It is equal or enlarging slightly at the base, and is somewhat flexous, hollow, and subpruinose to floccose. The stipe is whitish to reddish brown or blackish and readily bruises blue. Rhizomorphs are sometimes attached to the base. The veil is well-developed but does not form a permanent annulus.\n\nThe spores are hexagonal to subrhomboid in frontal view and ellipsoid in side view, (5.6)6.7–8(9) x (4) 4.8–6.4 (7.2) x 4–4.8 (5.5) µm. The basidia each produce four spores, and occasionally only two larger spores. The cheilocystidia are 16–27(29) x 4.5–8 µm and lageniform to narrowly lageniform, with a flexuous neck that is 1–2.5 µm broad and sometimes bifurcate. Basidia 18.5–22.5 × 5.5–6.5 µm, cylindrical, four spored, hyaline and thin-walled. Pleurocystidia 12–20 (–32) × 4.5–9 (‒10) µm, fusiform, occasionally conical, clavate or utriform, occasionally bifurcate, hyaline, thin-walled. The subhymenium is ramose-inflated. Pileus trama is radial, with hyphae 5–32 µm, yellowish to yellowish brown, thick walled (0.5–1 µm). Pileipellis an ixocutis, (9–) 12–54 µm wide, hyphae 1.5–4 (–5.5) µm diameter, hyaline and thin-walled. Pileocystidia (10–) 12–28 × 4–9.5 µm, globose, cylindrical, clavate, flexuose or pyriform and thin-walled. Stipitipellis a cutis, hyphae 1.5–9.5 µm diameter, yellowish brown, thin-walled (up to 0.5–0.8 µm thick). Caulocystidia (19–) 22.5–49.5 (–56) × 4–8 (–9.5) µm, cylindrical, lageniform, fusiform or, utriform, or lageniform, hyaline and, thin-walled.\n\n\"Psilocybe caerulescens\" is found growing gregariously or cespitosely, rarely solitarily, from June through October on disturbed ground often devoid of herbaceous plants. It often grows in sunny locations, preferring muddy orangish brown soils with lots of woody debris. \"Psilocybe caerulescens\" was first reported from near Montgomery, Alabama, by Murrill in 1923 on sugarcane mulch, not re-documented from that locality since. It was recently found in South Carolina in September 2008. \"Psilocybe caerulescens\" is common and widespread throughout northern Georgia\n\n"}
{"id": "9115031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9115031", "title": "Religion in Afghanistan", "text": "Religion in Afghanistan\n\nAfghanistan is an Islamic republic where Islam is practiced by 99% of its citizens. As high as 80% of the population follow Sunni Islam. The remaining are Shias. Apart from Muslims, there are also small minorities of Sikhs and Hindus.\n\nThe religion Zoroastrianism is believed by some to have originated in what is now Afghanistan between 1800 and 800 BCE, as its founder Zoroaster is thought to have lived and died in Balkh while the region at the time was referred to as Ariana. Ancient Eastern Iranian languages may have been spoken in the region around the time of the rise of Zoroastrianism. By the middle of the 6th century BCE, the Achaemenids overthrew the Medes and incorporated Arachosia, Aria, and Bactria within its eastern boundaries. An inscription on the tombstone of Darius I of Persia mentions the Kabul Valley in a list of the 29 countries that he had conquered.\n\nFollowing Alexander the Great's conquest and occupation in the 4th century BC, the successor-state Seleucid Empire controlled the area until 305 BC when they gave much of it to the Indian Maurya Empire as part of an alliance treaty. The Mauryans brought Buddhism from India and controlled southern Afghanistan until about 185 BC when they were overthrown.\n\nIn the 7th century, the Umayyad Arab Muslims entered into the area now known as Afghanistan after decisively defeating the Sassanians in the Battle of Nihawand (642 AD). Following this colossal defeat, the last Sassanid Emperor, Yazdegerd III, became a hunted fugitive and fled eastward deep into Central Asia. In pursuing Yazdegerd, the Arabs chose to enter the area from north-eastern Iran and thereafter into Herat, where they stationed a large portion of their army before advancing toward the rest of Afghanistan. The Arabs exerted considerable efforts toward propagating Islam amongst the locals.\n\nA large number of the inhabitants of the region of northern Afghanistan accepted Islam through Umayyad missionary efforts, particularly under the reigns of Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik (caliph from 723 to 733) and Umar ibn AbdulAziz (caliph from 717 to 720). During the reign of Al-Mu'tasim Islam was generally practiced amongst most inhabitants of the region and finally under Ya'qub-i Laith Saffari, Islam was by far, the predominant religion of Kabul along with other major cities of Afghanistan. Later, the Samanids propagated Islam deep into the heart of Central Asia, as the first complete translation of the Qur'an into Persian occurred in the 9th century. Since the 9th century, Islam has dominated the country's religious landscape. Islamic leaders have entered the political sphere at various times of crisis, but rarely exercised secular authority for long. The remnants of a Shahi presence in Afghanistan's eastern borders were expelled by Mahmud of Ghazni during 998 and 1030.\n\nUntil the 1890s, the country's Nuristan region was known as Kafiristan (land of the \"kafirs\" or \"infidels\") because of its inhabitants: the Nuristani, an ethnically distinctive people who practiced animism, polytheism and shamanism.\nThe 1979 Soviet invasion in support of a communist government triggered a major intervention of religion into Afghan political conflict, and Islam united the multi-ethnic political opposition. Once the Soviet-backed Marxist-style regime came to power in Afghanistan, the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) moved to reduce the influence of Islam. The \"atheistic\" and \"infidel\" communist PDPA imprisoned, tortured and murdered many members of the religious establishment. After National Reconciliation talks in 1987, Islam became once again the state religion and the country removed the word \"Democratic\" from its official name. From 1987-1992, the country's official name was the Republic of Afghanistan but today it is an Islamic Republic. For Afghans, Islam represents a potentially unifying symbolic system which offsets the divisiveness that frequently rises from the existence of a deep pride in tribal loyalties and an abounding sense of personal and family honor found in multitribal and multiethnic societies such as Afghanistan. Mosques serve not only as places of worship, but for a multitude of functions, including shelter for guests, places to meet and converse, the focus of social religious festivities and schools. Almost every Afghan has at one time during his youth studied at a mosque school; for some this is the only formal education they receive.\n\nThe Shias make up between 7% to 20% of the total population of Afghanistan. Although there is a tiny minority Sunnis among them, the Hazaras are predominately and overwhelmngy Shia, mostly of the Twelver branch with some smaller groups who practice the Ismailism branch. The Qizilbash Tajiks of Afghanistan have traditionally been Shias.\n\nOne of the most important revivalists and resuscitators of the Islamic Modernist and non-denominational Muslim movement in the contemporary era was Jamal ad-Din al-Afghani.\n\nAccording to the World Christian Encyclopedia, 2,000 Afghans identified as Zoroastrians in 1970.\n\nThere are about 4,000 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus living in different cities but mostly in Kabul, Jalalabad, and Kandahar. Senator Awtar Singh is the only Sikh in Afghanistan's parliament.\n\nThe Bahá'i Faith was introduced to Afghanistan in 1919 and Bahá'í have been living there since the 1880s. Currently, there are approximately 400 Bahá'í (according to a recent estimate) in Afghanistan.\n\nSome unconfirmed reports state that there are 500 to 8,000 Afghan Christians practicing their faith secretly in the country. A 2015 study estimates some 3,300 believers in Christ from a Muslim background residing in the country.\n\nThere was a small Jewish community in Afghanistan who fled the country before and after the 1979 Soviet invasion, and one individual, Zablon Simintov, still remains today.\nIt is thought that there are between 500-1000 secret Jews in Afghanistan who were forced to convert to Islam after the Taliban took control of the country. There are Afghan Jewish communities in Israel, the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "57818380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57818380", "title": "Revayats", "text": "Revayats\n\nThe Revayats, (also spelled as Rivayats), or referred to as The Persian Rivayats are a series of exchanges between the Zoroastrian community in India and their co-religionists in early modern Persia. They have been ascribed the same importance of the Talmud to Judaism by Jivanji Jamshedji Modi.\n\nThe word Revayat has disputed etymology. Some claim the word to have origins from Arabic but this is contentious.\n\nThe content of each Revayat varies but they are usually queries on matters of worship, customs, rituals and observance. The issues range form the mundane, such as queries about the preparation of ink for the writing of religious documents, to important issues including conversion.\n\nOver three centuries, twenty-two Revayats were sent from India to Persia. The very first Revayat was brought in 1478 AD by Nariman Hoshang of Broach. Hoshang was a layman, supported by Chang Asa a notable leader of the Navsari Parsi community. Hoshang spent a year in Yazd, learning Persian and supported himself by 'petty trade'. Eventually his Persian improved to the extent that he was able to question the dasturs of Iran.\n\nAfter this initial Revayat, Indian priests would gather up questions and send representatives to Iran with the questions. These Revayats are known by the emissary who brought them back. Some Revayats are anonymous as the person who brought them is unknown, these Rivatays are more or less incomplete. \n\nIn the 17th Century the Revayats were classified according to the subject they pertained to by Hormazdyar Framarz, Darab Hormazdyar, and Barzo Kamdin.\n\nThe Revayats are notable as the only Modern Persian text composed in the Avestan script.\n\nDuring the 18th Century the Kadmi sects in both Iran and India exchanged additional Revayats, which culiminated in the Revayat-e Haftad va Hast (translated as the Revayat of 78 Questions) (also known as the Ithoter Revayat).\n"}
{"id": "2494405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494405", "title": "Rushnyk", "text": "Rushnyk\n\nRushnyk, Rushnik (, , ) is a ritual cloth embroidered with symbols and cryptograms of the ancient world. They have been used in sacred Eastern Slavic rituals, religious services and ceremonial events such as weddings and funerals. Each region has its own designs and patterns with hidden meaning, passed down from generation to generation and studied by ethnographers. \n\nThere are many rushnyk collections in ethnographic museums. In Ukraine, the Rushnyk Museum is located in Pereiaslav-Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine as part of The Museum of Folk Architecture and Way of Life of Central Naddnipryanshchyna. A Russian rushnyk collection is housed at the Hermitage Museum.\n\nThe rectangular shape of the fabric indicates a life's journey and the ornamentation captures the cultural ancestral memory of the region. The material used is either linen or hemp. The act of spinning thread and the process of weaving linen embodies spiritual power dating back to the ancient deity Mokosh who is often represented in embroidery. The needle has its own energy, an idea similar to acupuncture, and the color of the thread has sacred meaning. Red represents life and is the main color used. A rushnyk is given to a baby at birth, it follows the person throughout life and used in the funeral service after death.\n\nA Rushnyk has many uses. The very basic rushnik is colloquially called the \"utyralnyk\" or wiper and serves as a towel. The utyralnyk either has no designs on it or it has very narrow strip on the edges. In contrast, a \"nabozhnyk\" is a highly decorated Rushnyk composing of embroidery and of lace. \"Nabozhnyks\", also called \"nabraznyks\" or \"nakutnyks\" are used to decorate icons and icon corners in homes. \n\nColour plays a very important symbolic role in traditional Slavic embroidery. Red is the colour of life, the sun, fertility and health. The majority of rushnyks are embroidered with red threads. The very word \"red\" means \"beautiful\" and \"splendid\" in Old Russian and Ruthenian: a red girl, a red sun or a red spring. The phrase \"Krasnaya devitsa\" in Old Russian language for example is an old idiomatic expression which means beautiful girl, the word \"Krasnaya\" translates in Russian language also into red. The diamond-shaped design of the rushnyk is an ancient agricultural symbol, which means a sown field, or the sun, and expresses the idea of fertility and protection against evil. Ducks, in the centre of the rushnyk, symbolize the element of life-giving water. In wedding folklore a duck and a drake symbolize a bride and a groom, in other words a pair of ducks is a symbol of family life.\n\nDuring a wedding ceremony, the bride and groom are standing on a Rushnyk called a \"pidnozhnyk,\" which translates as step-on towel. What happens to the pidnozhnyk is that the bride will drag the towel behind her, and her bridesmaids follow behind her. Tradition has it that when the bridesmaids follow behind the pidnozhnyk, they are following the path of the bride and hopefully be married.\n\nThe words are created with the common suffix \"-nyk\" (\"-nik\") that indicates a general association of the new word with the base one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7399401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7399401", "title": "Science &amp; Theology News", "text": "Science &amp; Theology News\n\nScience & Theology News was a monthly international newspaper of the Templeton Foundation that focused on science and religion and dialogue between them, specifically the point of view that both are worthwhile and compatible endeavors.\n\nHarold G. Koenig was the publisher and Karl Giberson the editor-in-chief.\n\nThe newspaper ceased publication in Fall of 2006 after more than 60 issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "382516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382516", "title": "Sealing (Mormonism)", "text": "Sealing (Mormonism)\n\nSealing is an ordinance (ritual) performed in Latter Day Saint temples by a person holding the sealing authority. The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familial relationships, making possible the existence of family relationships throughout eternity. LDS teachings place great importance on the specific authority required to perform these sealings. Church doctrine teaches that this authority, called the Priesthood, corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in .\n\nSealings are typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents. They were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith (the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement), and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Although some denominations, such as the Community of Christ, view sealing as an artifact of Smith's practice of plural marriage, others do still perform them.\n\nFaithful Latter Day Saints believe civil marriages are dissolved at death, but that a couple who has been sealed in a temple will be married beyond physical death and the resurrection if they remain faithful. This means that in the afterlife they and their family will be together forever. An illustrative difference in the marriage ceremony performed in LDS temples is the replacement of the words \"until death do us part\" with \"for time and all eternity\".\n\nThe LDS Church recognizes other monogamous, heterosexual marriages, both civil and religious, although they believe that such marriages will not continue after death because \"eternal marriages\" must be performed by priesthood authority. Eternal marriages are also performed vicariously for the deceased, of effect after receiving all other saving ordinances. As with sealings of living persons, they are sealed with their spouse and their children.\n\nCouples who have children born to them before being sealed may have their children sealed to them afterwards. Couples who have children after being sealed need not have their children sealed to them in a separate ceremony. Children born to sealed parents are \"born in the covenant\" and are automatically sealed to their parents. Adopted children may be sealed to their adoptive parents once the adoption has been legally finalized.\n\nThe union of a sealed couple is regarded as valid only if both individuals have kept their religious commitments and followed LDS teachings. Just as deceased individuals may refuse any temple ordinance (such as a sealing) done by proxy on their behalf, couples, parents, and children who were sealed to each other in life may refuse to accept a sealing of which they were a part. No one will be sealed to any one with whom they do not want to be sealed.\n\nOnly worthy members of the LDS Church, who hold current valid temple recommends, can attend and witness sealings. Non-member family and friends generally wait in the temple waiting room during the sealing ceremony.\n\nSince the LDS Church rejects same-sex marriages, these unions are not performed in temples nor are they recognized by the LDS Church.\n\nA temple sealing for a living couple has the man and woman kneel on opposite sides of an altar in a temple sealing room while wearing ceremonial temple robes. They grasp each other's right hand in the patriarchal grip while facing double mirrors that create an infinite reflection. The male sealer then reads the following vows to groom (and then repeats the same vows with the changes noted in parentheses) to which they are to respond \"yes\".\n\nBrother _[last name]_, do you take Sister _[last name]_ by the right hand and receive her unto yourself to be your lawfully wedded wife (give yourself to him to be his lawfully wedded wife, and receive him to be your lawfully wedded husband), for time and all eternity, with a covenant and promise that you will observe and keep all the laws, rites, and ordinances pertaining to this holy order of matrimony in the new and everlasting covenant; and this you do in the presence of God, angels, and these witnesses of your own free will and choice?\n\nThey are then pronounced husband and wife and promised blessings.\n\nNot all countries recognize marriages performed by clergy outside of the state religion. In these cases, temple marriages are not seen as legally binding, and a civil marriage must also be performed. In other cases, marriages must be performed in a public forum for any to witness or formally object. In such circumstances, government representatives or authorized clergy will perform the civilly-recognized public wedding prior to the temple sealing.\n\nIn countries where temple marriage is legally binding, couples who choose to be married outside the temple must wait one year before they can be sealed in the temple. In countries where a civil ceremony is required before marriage, the couples must receive their sealing as soon as practical after the civil ceremony.\n\nAlthough a divorce dissolves a civilly-recognized marriage, the church still recognizes a sealing as binding. A couple who has been sealed may request to have their sealing \"canceled\", but this is uncommon, occurs only under special circumstances and is only granted by the President of the Church. Some refer informally to a \"cancellation\" as a \"temple divorce\", but the terminology designated by church leaders is \"cancellation of a sealing\". If a sealing is canceled, the sealing between them and any children remains in force, though the couple is no longer sealed. The sealing together of husband and wife and the sealing of children to parents are separate ordinances.\n\nA cancellation typically follows after a civil divorce when a woman seeks to be sealed to another man. The church's requirements for divorced men are equally strict, and even sometimes more so. A man must apply for a sealing clearance to marry another woman after he has been civilly divorced, even if he has already received a cancellation of sealing.\n\nIt has been argued that the LDS Church's policy on sealings and cancellations reflect its doctrine of plural marriage. Although plural marriage is currently prohibited in the church, a man can be sealed to multiple women, in the case of widowers who are sealed to their dead and living wives. Additionally, men who are dead may be sealed by proxy to all women to whom they were legally married while alive. Recent changes in church policy also allow women to be sealed to multiple men, but only after both she and her husband(s) are dead.\n\nChurch doctrine is not entirely specific on the status of men or women who are sealed by proxy to multiple spouses. There are at least two possibilities:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56665290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56665290", "title": "Slavic Native Faith in Poland", "text": "Slavic Native Faith in Poland\n\nSlavic Native Faith in Poland has in 2007, according to Scott Simpson, between 2000 and 2500 \"actively engaged and regular participants\".\n\nIn 1818, the Polish folklorist and Slavophile Zorian Dołęga-Chodakowski (pseudonym of Adam Czarnocki) stated that Poland \"must return to [the] native faith\". According to that, he's recognized as precursor of Rodnovery in Poland.\n\nIn the middle-war period, in Poland emerged few movements recognized as early Polish Rodnovery: Święte Koło Czcicieli Światowida (\"the Holy Circle of Worshippers of Worldseeker\"; 1921), Demiurg (1934), Zadruga (1937).\nThe main organisation form of Rodnovery in Poland are the Rodnover Confederation.\n\nThere are five formally registered religious organisations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50360626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50360626", "title": "Sué", "text": "Sué\n\nSué, Xué, Sua, Zuhe or Suhé was the god of the Sun in the religion of the Muisca. He was married to Moon goddess Chía. The Muisca and their confederation were one of the four advanced civilizations of the Americas and developed their own religion on the Altiplano Cundiboyacense in the Andes. Both the Sun and rain, impersonated by Chibchacum, were very important for their agriculture.\n\nAfter the creation of light and the world by Chiminigagua he created Chía and Sué to represent the Moon and the Sun respectively. Spanish conquistador Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada wrote about the Muisca: \"they have the Sun and the Moon as breeders of all the things and believe they are together as husband and wife having created the councils\".\n\nWhile Chía was related to the \"zipas\" of the southern Muisca Confederation, Sué was governing the \"zaques\" of the northern Muisca. Also the \"cacique\" of Ramiriquí was related to Sué.\n\nSué was worshipped in the Temple of the Sun in Sugamuxi, currently known as Sogamoso, City of the Sun. Other temples attributed to Sué were in Bacatá and Guatavita. The original Sun Temple in Sogamoso has been destroyed by torch fires of the Spanish conquerors.\n\nOn the date of the summer solstice, the Muisca nobles went in a procession to the temples where they made sacrifices to ask for blessings of the yearly harvests. The day was celebrated with grand fesitivies by the people who painted their bodies and got drunk with \"chicha\". They also adored their own shadows as they believed that Sué gave them their own personal god that they carried with them all day.\n\n"}
{"id": "31011099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31011099", "title": "Thomas Whittemore (Universalist)", "text": "Thomas Whittemore (Universalist)\n\nThomas Whittemore (January 1, 1800 – Cambridge, Massachusetts, March 21, 1861) was a Christian Universalist author, speaker and influential member of the Universalist Church of America. He founded and was the editor of \"The Trumpet and Universalist\" magazine, which succeeded the \"Universalist\" magazine of Hosea Ballou in 1828.\n\nLike Ballou and Ballou's grand-nephew, Hosea Ballou II, first president of Tufts College, Whittemore contributed to Universalist historiography by identifying precedents for Universalist beliefs in earlier Christianity. With Thomas J. Sawyer of New York, he co-founded the Universalist Historical Society in 1834. These histories were influential in bringing many readers to regard the Christians of the first centuries as Universalists.\n\nFrom 1831-1836, Whittemore served as Cambridge's representative in the Massachusetts legislature, serving as chair of the committee that oversaw the disestablishment of the Congregational Church and Unitarian Church, to whose special status Whittemore was opposed, from the privileged position they had been accorded in the Massachusetts Constitution. Whittmore held that \"no civil government has a right to compel the citizens to support any system of religion whatsoever\" and supported calls for a popular referendum on the separation of church and state in 1834. The results of that referendum brought Massachusetts into accord with the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nHe was buried in Mount Auburn Cemetery.\n\nHis papers are in the Andover-Harvard Theological Library at Harvard Divinity School in Cambridge, Massachusetts; the Thomas Whittemore family papers are at Tufts University's Digital Collections and Archives.\n\n\"The glory of God, and of His Son Jesus Christ, as manifested in the final holiness and happiness of all men, is the central sun of Universalism.\"\n\n-Thomas Whittemore, \"Plain Guide to Universalism\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "47762029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47762029", "title": "Virgen de los Remedios de Pampanga", "text": "Virgen de los Remedios de Pampanga\n\nVirgen de los Remedios de la Pampanga also known as Indu Ning Capaldanan is a title of the Blessed Virgin Mary venerated by the Roman Catholic faithful Capampangans in Pampanga, Philippines.\n\nUnder this particular title, Mary is officially designated as the Patroness of Pampanga and was granted its official title and given a Canonical Coronation by Pope Pius XII through a Papal Bull dated 15 July 1956, while its official feast is celebrated on the Feast of Nativity of Mary.\n\nThe paired devotion alongside with a crucifix called \"Santo Cristo Del Perdon\" is highlighted in a prayer apostolate known as Crusaders for Penance and Charity, a prayer group started by women which focused on Catholic social justice for the poor and the destitute and was once instituted to combat Communism.\n\nIn the 1950s after the Second World War, the province of Pampanga was plagued with Communism which threatened both the Catholic religion and social order in the Philippines. The lower and the middle class laity conflicted with wealthy landowners which caused much political unrest in the region.\n\nThe Archbishop of Pampanga at the time, Cesar Maria Guerrero decided to foster the Marian devotion\"( this devotion had happened before, during the Spanish regime in 1574 in Manila and Pampanga)\" again to pacify the problems encountered by his people. Guerrero was originally from the town of Malate where a similar image of Our Lady of Remedies was already venerated in Manila and in Pampanga dating from the Castillian period when the Philippines was still a colonial territory of the Kingdom of Spain.\n\nGuerrero requested the image of the Immaculate Conception, already venerated as Our Lady of Remedies from Baliti, Pampanga to be borrowed by San Fernando to help with a new apostolate working towards peace and reconciliation, called Crusade of Penance and Charity. Great piety and monetary donations were garnered primarily due to the wealthy noblewomen and widows who contributed into the religious group, along with the consistent religious processions and recitations of Rosary which made the devotion popular among the masses. A system of bylaws for the apostolate was created, making the group more organized and official which helped it to grow and increased ecclesiastical recognition.\n\nBy 1954, the people of Baliti, Pampanga became adamant in requesting that their image be returned to their town. As a result, Bishop Guerrero commissioned the \"santero\" artist Victoriano Siongco to carve out a larger image of the Immaculate Conception for the official use of the Crusade, and the Baliti image was returned to its original parish.\n\nOn 11 February 1956, Bishop Guerrero submitted a petition to Cardinal Federico Tedeschini, who at the time was the Apostolic Dataria to Pope Pius XII requesting to grant a canonical coronation. On 15 July 1956, Pope Pius XII issued the pontifical decree on the Canonical Coronation of the image which occurred on 8 September 1956, the same day of its current feast.\n\nThe Feast of Virgen de los Remedios of Pampanga is celebrated each 8 September, the Nativity of Mary. In the United States, the Archbishop of Los Angeles, California crowns a replica of the image each year at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels.\n\nIn 2010, Capampangans in the Bay Area also started with an annual re-enactment of the Canonical Coronation. The initial coronation was held at the Our Lady of Peace Shrine in Santa Clara, California. Since then, the event rotates through the Diocese of San Jose, Diocese of Oakland and the Archdiocese of San Francisco and is held every 2nd Sunday of November.\n\n"}
{"id": "1267467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1267467", "title": "Wattie Buchan", "text": "Wattie Buchan\n\nWalter David Buchan (born 24 July 1957), known as Wattie Buchan, is a Scottish punk rock musician. He is the lead vocalist for the band \n\nBuchan was born in Edinburgh, Scotland on 24 July 1957. He served in the British Army as a soldier prior to joining The Exploited. He became interested in punk rock in the 1970s after hearing music by bands such as Sex Pistols. Buchan is married to Gena Buchan.\n\nThe Exploited are a Scottish punk rock band from the second wave of UK punk, formed in 1978. Originally playing styles such as street punk and oi!, the band played styles such as crossover thrash later on. Formed in Edinburgh by Walter \"Wattie\" Buchan, they signed to Secret Records in March 1981 and released their debut EP \"Army Life\". The album \"Punks Not Dead\" followed in the same year. Despite many lineup changes, the band continued into the 2000s, and has developed a worldwide following. In 2012, the band began writing material for a new album. \n\nIn February 2014, Buchan suffered a heart attack on stage in Lisbon, Portugal. The Exploited had been touring with Hatebreed and Napalm Death. He was admitted to S. José Hospital in Lisbon after the show and later moved to S. Marta Hospital to recover and undergo heart surgery. The Exploited cancelled the remaining of the Tour Of Chaos 2014 due to Buchan's condition. On 29 June 2014, The Exploited's Facebook page updated on Buchan's condition, saying that after a successful heart operation, the band is practising new material.\n\nIn an interview with Rock Hard Magazine in May 2016, he said that he had suffered from depression, which was affecting his ability to write new lyrics.\n\nBuchan openly hates politics. He also hates religion. When asked about religion, Buchan said, \"I fuckin’ hate religion. For me everyone’s free to believe in something. Just because you believe in some of it, doesn’t mean that you…but I can’t understand people that care about religion more than anything else. I am like 'What? What the fuck?!?' I just hate religion.\" Buchan is an anarchist. Buchan has condemned several politicians, including George W. Bush, Margaret Thatcher, and Tony Blair. Buchan said about Thatcher: \"She was a bit of a cunt, but at least she was honest\". The Exploited's song \"Maggie\" is about Thatcher. In the song \"Maggie\" lyrics, Buchan calls Thatcher a \"cunt\". Buchan has said that Blair \"is a total fucking, lying fanny wank.\" Buchan has criticized George W. Bush for the Iraq war that began in 2003. Buchan said: \"Its unbelievable, these people have got so much power, and they start all these wars. Everybody sees that, but nobody does anything to stop that.\"\n\nBuchan is pro-Palestine and has condemned Israel's treatment of the Palestinians. In an interview with \"I Probably Hate Your Band\", Buchan expressed his pro-Palestinian views, saying: \"even with Israel and Palestine, the Palestinian people are like prisoners and the world does nothing about it because America’s behind them, backing them because they want bases for their airplanes in that area.\" One of the songs The Exploited has worked on during the 2010s is a song called \"My TV\", which Buchan says \"is about watching the news with Israel bombing Palestine and politicians being greedy cunts.\" Buchan has also criticized the foreign policy of both the United States and Britain. Buchan said: \n\nBuchan is known for criticizing other musicians and starting feuds with other musicians. The Exploited's \"Punks Not Dead\" album's title is a reaction to anarcho punk contemporaries Crass' song \"Punk is Dead\". Buchan has been open about disliking Crass, saying: \"People listen to bands and believe what they sing about. Crass was just words.\" He stated \"they were full of shit. They said they believed in this and that, but bought record companies under other people’s names so it couldn’t be traced back to them. It was all about money with them.\" Other than Crass, Buchan has criticized multiple other bands and musicians including Henry Rollins, Jello Biafra, Green Day, Bad Religion, Linkin Park, The Offspring, and Descendents. Buchan has also criticized emo saying \"Emo's shit! They can stick it up their ass!\" Buchan accused the punk rock band the Buzzcocks of selling out. Buchan said about the Buzzcocks: \"They used to be good but they really sold out. A lot of the bands here used to be good until they turned to more pop rock. Like when I was a punk (when I was young), I used to see the Buzzcocks live. It was great.\" When The Exploited were at Amnesia Rockfest, Buchan, during an interview, criticized the other bands at the music festival, saying: \"Well, here at Rockfest, you got a lot of bands that define themselves as punk bands but they're shit. They are so pop-oriented that they don’t even stand for any values; they do not deserve the status of being defined as punk bands.\"\n\nBuchan has been known for openly disliking former Dead Kennedys member Jello Biafra. The Exploited's song \"I Hate You\" is about Jello Biafra. On the album \"Live at the White House\", he introduces the song with an insult to Biafra and claims that he slept with his wife. On the same album, he dedicates the song \"Wankers\" to the artist Pushead, who claimed that he was neither paid nor credited for his work with the band, and the song \"Daily News\" to \"Maximumrocknroll\". When asked in a documentary why he disliked Biafra, Buchan said that he could not remember. In May 2016, Buchan also criticised Slayer for refusing to allow The Exploited to appear on stage with them after The Exploited had allowed Slayer to cover [collaborating with Ice-T] three of their songs for the Judgment Night soundtrack for only a small payment. Buchan was asked which bands he liked after he criticised several other acts appearing at Amnesia Rockfest. Buchan responded by mentioning Charged GBH, Carcass, No Fun at All, Skinny Puppy, and Ministry. He also said of Slayer: \"Slayer’s okay. I mean, only some of their stuff is okay. I’ll restrain myself from say anything more about them.\" Buchan said about Real McKenzies: \"I don't feel any special political bond with them – my brother, the drummer of the band, is a lot more conscious of Scottish politics. However, I've played with them a few times; they’re total alcoholics. Good people: their gigs are always excitin'.\"\n\nAfter the appearance by The Exploited on \"Top of the Pops\" to perform \"Dead Cities\" in 1981, the hardcore punk band Conflict criticized the decision to appear on the programme with the song \"Exploitation\". This began a long-standing feud between The Exploited and Conflict, which divided the punk community and caused occasional clashes between the bands' fans (known as \"The Barmy Army\" for The Exploited and \"the Conflict Crew\").\n\nAt an awards ceremony for a music magazine, Buchan was presenting an award that was won by Green Day, a band that Buchan hates. Buchan had to present the award to Green Day. Buchan alleged that during the after-party Green Day member Billie Joe Armstrong confronted him and said \"when you die, I'm going to be standing over your grave, laughing at ya.\" Buchan said he then responded to Armstrong, saying to Armstrong: \"I've got something you'll never have, mate. You could have a big record company and loads of money but I've got something you'll never have, and that’s respect from the punks. You can not buy that, you have to earn it.\" The two then had to be separated by onlookers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11260962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11260962", "title": "Yin Style Baguazhang", "text": "Yin Style Baguazhang\n\nYin Style Baguazhang is a style of Baguazhang.\n\nYin Fu had multiple students, but is said to have taught his complete baguazhang system to only a few. Of these students, Men Baozhen (門寶珍) taught Xie Peiqi. In an interview with Xie Peiqi, dated to 1999, Xie stated that his teacher, Men Baozhen, was considered to be the third best pupil of Yin Fu, after \"Wan Tong\" Li (i.e. Li Yongqing) and Ma Gui (Yin's oldest disciple). Dr. Xie died in 2003 and his top student, He Jinbao, is now teaching the system. Other famous students of Yin Fu included Yin Yuzhang (his fourth son), Cao Zhongsheng (who also learned from Ma Gui), Gong Baotian, and others. Ma Gui, Yin Fu's first disciple, stated that he changed nothing in the bagua he learned from Yin Fu. Included among Ma Gui's students were Wang Peisheng, who is more famous for his Wu style taijiquan, and Liu Wanchuan.\n\nYin Style as passed down by Xie Peiqi is notable for having eight distinct animal styles within the body of the art. In other words, Xie's Yin Style is a complete system, which is made up of other complete systems. These include the eight animal systems as well as several 'unorthodox' systems, such as the Penetrating Palm and Backhand systems. Each of the eight animal styles is related to one of the eight trigrams of the I Ching. The following table describes this relationship:\n\nEach animal is a complete system in its own right, possessing its own personality, skills, applications, and functions. Each of the eight animal systems contains eight striking methods, and each striking method has seven strikes. Three of those seven are considered the 'primary' strikes and are emphasized more than the others in single practice. Therefore, the animal systems of Xie's Yin Style Bagua have a total of 448 unique strikes. However, Xie's Yin Style Bagua also contains other unorthodox systems outside of the eight animals, such as Penetrating Palm and the Backhand systems. Hence, there are more than 448 strikes, though 448 are contained within the animals. (Note that the animal relationships with the bagua diagram are not unique to Xie's art; these relationships are also often used for other styles of bagua, including Cheng substyles, such as that of Sun Lutang.)\n\nOther substyles of Yin include different forms and methods. For example, Cao Zhongsheng's system's technical base is the 64 palms (also taught by Wang Peisheng); other substyles focus on only 8 main palms (such as that of Liu Zhenlin, Li Baosen, or other Men Baozhen lineages). Gong Baotian's version has many forms and a strong emphasis on Yin Fu's Luohan forms. Each substyle also includes many supplementary forms (such as luohanquan) and training methods (such as hand hardening methods).\n\nThere are four basic practice methods in Xie Peiqi's Yin Style Baguazhang: standing, turning, striking, and changing. These practices are the basic pillars of the style, and are all considered equally important.\n\nThe standing practices involve nine static strengthening postures specific to a given animal. Each posture requires precise body alignment and distinct isometric pressures necessitating full body exertion to maintain properly. These postures are undertaken to develop and check the structure of every part of the body.\n\nTurning (or turning the circle), is the practice many people associate with Baguazhang. \"Yin style Bagua is the art of striking while you are moving. You ceaselessly move and strike, and are always trying to get to the outside [of your opponent] by turning. No matter what, position yourself to avoid the heavy blows and let the light ones fall. It is within turning that these movements and techniques are honed to perfection or to a higher level. All movements and techniques are linked smoothly together.\"\n\nStriking is the most fundamental way of developing power in Yin Style Baguazhang. It is introduced through the stationary drilling method, unaccompanied by footwork. It is intended to establish the harmony between hand and waist that is necessary for generating power.\n\nThe moving strike practices consist of:\n\n\nChanging is most obvious when changing hands to face opposite directions. Changing also includes the changing or redirecting of force, or alterations in stepping.\n\nEach animal style in Yin Style Baguazhang is its own complete system; however, each system contains practices and movements from all of the other animal systems. Example: when practicing forms in Yin Style Bagua, a practitioner may practice, for example, the Lion System Windmill Sweeping Strike Form. The strikes come from the lion system, but the Windmill movements come from the Phoenix system.\n\nThus, each animal has a specific movement technique in addition to its 8 striking methods. Each animal also has its own kicking technique, which is not included in its striking methods.\n\nThe lion is pure Yang energy, or hardness, and is one of two animals represented by a pure trigram; the other is the Unicorn. The lion trigram is characterized by powerful and ferocious full-body force generated from the waist. The lion's eight striking methods are: sweeping, cutting, chopping, hooking, shocking, blocking, seizing and grasping.\n\nThe lion's characteristic movement technique is Linking the Forms.\n\nThe Snake's striking methods are: shoulder, elbow, knee, hip, shooting, binding, entrapping, and grasping. The style is characterized by a smooth and flowing motion of the force-palm, with many of the strikes targeted at vital organs.\n\nThe snake's characteristic movement technique is Moving with the Force.\n\nThe bear system is distinguished by a strategy of taking advantage from a losing position. The Bear's striking methods are: rushing, penetrating, withdrawing, carrying, leaning, shocking, soft and following. The Bear's power is generated from the back, and is short and blunt.\n\nThe bear's characteristic movement technique is Turning the Back.\n\nKnown as the lifting and holding palm. Its striking methods are: pushing, lifting, carrying, leading, moving, capturing, chopping and entering. The Dragon's power is emitted through a forward motion of back and waist. The Dragon style, although practiced differently in Yin Style, is the animal practiced by Cheng Style Baguazhang.\n\nThe dragon's characteristic movement technique is Lifting and Upholding.\n\nIn the phoenix system, force is emitted from the shoulders, and characterized by whipping action. The striking methods are: dodging, extending, chopping, shocking, transforming, removing, curling in, and cutting.\n\nThe phoenix's characteristic movement technique is Windmill.\n\nThe rooster focuses on long, deep footwork with one's center of gravity close to the ground. Power comes from the elbows. The Rooster's striking methods are: dodging, extending, lifting, shifting, entering, whipping, rushing and stabbing.\n\nThe rooster's characteristic movement technique is Reclining Step (also known as Lying Step).\n\nThe Unicorn is the opposite of the Lion, being pure Yin. The Unicorn's striking methods are: sticking, kneading, soft, following, hip, striking, chopping and cutting. It issues force by employing all joints to produce a flexible, snapping power.\n\nThe unicorn's characteristic movement technique is Reversing the Body.\n\nConcentrates on leg techniques, referred to as the interlocking leg. Its striking methods are: bending, thrusting, straightening, hip, chopping, swinging, stopping, and ending.\n\nThe monkey's characteristic movement technique is Compacting the Body.\n\nYin stylists are most concentrated in Beijing, where practitioners of the lineages of Ma Gui, Yin Yuzhang, Cao Zhongsheng, Li Baosen, Li Yongqing, Men Baozhen, and others still practice and teach today. Certain Yin styles have moved to other locations as well, however, such as the Cui Zhendong lineage in Shanghai and the Gong Baotian lineage in Shanghai, Shandong, and Taiwan. Famous practitioners in Beijing today include Zhang Zhao Ren, He Puren, Wang Shangzhi, Xu Shixi, Zhang Lie, Zhu Baozhen, and He Jinbao. Others include Huang Zhicheng of Shandong, He Jinghan of Taiwan, Michael Guen of California and Tu Kun-Yii of New Jersey, USA.\n"}
