{"id": "1637752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1637752", "title": "Bank (geography)", "text": "Bank (geography)\n\nIn geography, the word bank generally refers to the land alongside a body of water. Different structures are referred to as \"banks\" in different fields of geography, as follows.\n\nIn limnology (the study of inland waters), a stream bank or river bank is the terrain alongside the bed of a river, creek, or stream. The bank consists of the sides of the channel, between which the flow is confined. Stream banks are of particular interest in fluvial geography, which studies the processes associated with rivers and streams and the deposits and landforms created by them. Bankfull discharge is a discharge great enough to fill the channel and overtop the banks.\n\nThe descriptive terms \"left bank\" and \"right bank\" are relative to an observer looking downstream, in which the right bank is to the observer's right; a famous example is the naming of the two sides of the Seine in Paris. The shoreline of ponds, swamps, estuaries, reservoirs, or lakes are also of interest in limnology and are sometimes referred to as banks. The grade of all these banks or shorelines can vary from vertical to a shallow slope.\n\nIn freshwater ecology, banks are of interest as the location of riparian habitats. Riparian zones occur along upland and lowland river and stream beds. The ecology around and depending on a marsh, swamp, slough, or estuary, sometimes called a bank, is likewise studied in freshwater ecology.\n\nBanks are also of interest in navigation, where the term can refer either to a barrier island or a submerged plateau, such as an ocean bank. A barrier island is a long narrow island composed of sand and forming a barrier between an island lagoon or sound and the ocean. A submerged plateau is a relatively flat topped elevation of the sea floor at shallow depth (generally less than 200 m), typically on the continental shelf or near an island.\n"}
{"id": "52598474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52598474", "title": "Cattle rubbing stone", "text": "Cattle rubbing stone\n\nCattle Rubbing Stones, known as Clawin Posts in Scots were once a common sight in pastures and were provided to allow cattle to rub their skin without causing damage to field infrastructure such as fences and straining posts or natural features such as trees. Many have been removed to accommodate the needs of modern farming practices. Cattle are featured on Pictish stones such as the Fowlis Wester stone however the requirement for rubbing stones mainly relates to the enclosure of fields in the late 18th century that held cattle within a confined area.\n\nCattle rubbing stones need to be well dug into the ground and/or packed with stones and have also to be made of hard stone types that can withstand the considerable weight and strength of cattle. They can often be distinguished from megaliths such as standing stones by having angular edges showing that they have been cleaved during quarrying rather than be glacial erratics or from other natural sources. Some stones may show drill marks from the quarrying process. The shape is based on the need for appropriate height and strength without occupying too much space. The use of Ordnance Survey maps from different years may show that the stones were installed by farmers and they may marked as 'Rubbing stones'.\n\nIn Scotland the word 'yokey' was generally used for cattle that had itchy skin. Cattle rubbing stones were often made from harder stone such as whinstone or granite depending on the geology of the area concerned. An indicator that a stone is used by cattle for alleviating skin irritation is the polished appearance of the areas that have been used by many generations of cattle over the years. The ground around rubbing stones is often churned up and devoid of vegetation. Stones may also have areas of staining caused by the transfer of oil from the hide of the cattle during the rubbing process.\n\nSome standing stones owe their survival partly due to their practical functionality as cattle rubbing stones although some megalithic sites have had to be protected from the damage that cattle can and do cause as indicated by the attached photograph. The proximity to known megalithic sites is also a clue as to the actual origins of rubbing stones.\n\nStones with ancient carvings on them such as cup and rings, petrosomatoglyphs, Pictish, early Christian, Ogham, etc. indicate their origins even if they have a rubbing stone function.\n\nA 'Claw-scrunt' in Scots is a tree or tree stump used by cattle to rub themselves against.\n\nThe Dagon Stone at Darvel in East Ayrshire was once used as a cattle rubbing stone.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52306748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52306748", "title": "Dahagram–Angarpota", "text": "Dahagram–Angarpota\n\nDahagram–Angarpota is a group of Bangladeshi enclaves in India about 200 m away from the border of Bangladesh. It has a population of 17,000 people as of 2014. Dahagram–Angarpota is the largest Bangladeshi enclave. The enclave falls under Patgram Upazila.\n\nIn 1954 Pakistan and India signed a treaty over the Dahagram–Angarpota and Berubari enclave, Dahagram–Angarpota, according to the treaty, was meant to go to Pakistan while Berubari was to be divided between India and Pakistan. North Berubari going to India and South Berubari to Pakistan. The treaty was not ratified as it faced legal challenges in India. On 1971 Bangladesh became Independent from Pakistan. Bangladesh and India had to sign a new treaty. The 1974 Indira-Mujib pact was signed which protected the status of Dahagram–Angarpota and in return Bangladesh gave India the whole of Berubari. This was challenged in Bangladeshi courts but it was resolved quickly and the treaty ratified in 1974. The treaty provided Bangladesh with the Tin Bigha Corridor that connected the enclave with mainland Bangladesh. The corridor was started functioning on 1992, it was open for a few hours every day. Since 2011 the corridor has been open for 24 hours. The corridor is closed for one hour every day so that the Border Security Force of India can raise the Indian flag in the corridor. BSF controls the corridor and the gates. The area has seen limited development through the opening of a clinic, school, and market. \n"}
{"id": "52980287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52980287", "title": "David E. Sugden", "text": "David E. Sugden\n\nDavid Edward Sugden FRSE, FRSGS is an emeritus professor and senior research fellow at the University of Edinburgh. He is a glaciologist and glacial geomorphologist. His research focuses in particular on glacial and polar landforms, Antarctic ice sheet stability, and the dynamics of the Patagonian ice cap under a changing climate. He has served as President of the Geography Section of the British Association, Vice President of the Royal Geographical Society, President of the Institute of British Geographers, and Director of SAGES (Scottish Alliance for Geoscience, Environment, and Society). At the University of Edinburgh, Sugden has twice been Department Head of Geography and was also the inaugural Head of the School of Geosciences.\n\nHe is a winner of the International Glaciological Society's Seligman Crystal. This award is given to a researcher who has \"made an outstanding scientific contribution to glaciology that the subject is now enriched\". He has also won the Vega Medal for physical geography from the Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography; the Polar Medal for outstanding contribution to polar science and exploration by a British citizen; the David Linton Award from the British Society for Geomorphology; the Royal Geographical Society’s Cuthbert Peek Award; and the Royal Scottish Geographical Society’s Mungo Park Medal.\n\nSugden is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. He has received honorary degrees from the University of Stockholm and the University of Dundee.\n"}
{"id": "8360192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8360192", "title": "Diamantina Deep", "text": "Diamantina Deep\n\nThe Diamantina Deep is located in the Diamantina Trench southwest of Perth, Western Australia. The Diamantina Trench is in the eastern part of the larger Diamantina Fracture Zone, which stretches from the Ninety East Ridge to the Naturaliste Plateau, off the lower part of Southwest Australia. It is one of the deepest points (surpassed by the Sunda Trench) in the Indian Ocean at . It is located about west-southwest of Perth at .\n\nA survey in 1961 by the Australian oceanographic survey ship confirmed the bathymetry and conducted a scientific survey. The trench (and the Fracture Zone) was named after her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2370729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2370729", "title": "El Palmar National Park", "text": "El Palmar National Park\n\nEl Palmar National Park (in Spanish, \"Parque Nacional El Palmar\") is one of Argentina's national parks, located on the center-east of the province of Entre Ríos, midway between the cities of Colón (54 km) and Concordia (60 km). It has an area of about 85 km² and was created in 1966 for the preservation of its characteristic yatay palm trees (\"Butia yatay\", formerly \"Syagrus yatay\").\n\nThe park has a temperate-humid savanna ecosystem, typical of the Argentine Mesopotamia. The terrain features patches of palm trees of several species, grassland, small woods and forest, interrupted by streams flowing east into the Uruguay River. The local fauna includes woodpeckers, ñandús, foxes, viscachas, and capybaras.\n\n"}
{"id": "21377293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21377293", "title": "Environmental engineering science", "text": "Environmental engineering science\n\nEnvironmental engineering science (EES) is a multidisciplinary field of engineering science that combines the biological, chemical and physical sciences with the field of engineering. This major traditionally requires the student to take basic engineering classes in fields such as thermodynamics, advanced math, computer modeling and simulation and technical classes in subjects such as statics, mechanics, hydrology, and fluid dynamics. As the student progresses, the upper division elective classes define a specific field of study for the student with a choice in a range of science, technology and engineering related classes.\n\nAs a recently created program, environmental engineering science has not yet been incorporated into the terminology found among environmentally focused professionals. In the few engineering colleges that offer this major, the curriculum shares more classes in common with environmental engineering than it does with environmental science. Typically, EES students follow a similar course curriculum with environmental engineers until their fields diverge during the last year of college. The majority of the environmental engineering students must take classes designed to connect their knowledge of the environment to modern building materials and construction methods. This is meant to direct the environmental engineer into a field where they will more than likely assist in building treatment facilities, preparing environmental impact assessments or helping to mitigate air pollution from specific point sources.\n\nMeanwhile, the environmental engineering science student will choose a direction for their career. From the range of electives they have to choose from, these students can move into a fields such as the design of nuclear storage facilities, bacterial bioreactors or environmental policies. These students combine the practical design background of an engineer with the detailed theory found in many of the biological and physical sciences.\n\nThe Civil and Environmental Engineering department at Stanford University provides the following description for their program in Environmental Engineering and Science:\nThe Environmental Engineering and Science (EES) program focuses on the chemical and biological processes involved in water quality engineering, water and air pollution, remediation and hazardous substance control, human exposure to pollutants, environmental biotechnology, and environmental protection.\n\nThe College of Engineering at UC Berkeley defines Environmental Engineering Science, including the following:\n\nThis is a multidisciplinary field requiring an integration of physical, chemical and biological principles with engineering analysis for environmental protection and restoration. The program incorporates courses from many departments on campus to create a discipline that is rigorously based in science and engineering, while addressing a wide variety of environmental issues. Although an environmental engineering option exists within the civil engineering major, the engineering science curriculum provides a more broadly based foundation in the sciences than is possible in civil engineering\n\nAt MIT, the major is described in their curriculum, including the following:\nThe Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering Science emphasizes the fundamental physical, chemical, and biological processes necessary for understanding the interactions between man and the environment. Issues considered include the provision of clean and reliable water supplies, flood forecasting and protection, development of renewable and nonrenewable energy sources, causes and implications of climate change, and the impact of human activities on natural cycles\n\nLower division coursework in this field requires the student to take several laboratory-based classes in calculus-based physics, chemistry, biology, programming and analysis. This is intended to give the student background information in order to introduce them to the engineering fields and to prepare them for more technical information in their upper division coursework.\n\nThe upper division classes in Environmental Engineering Science prepares the student for work in the fields of engineering and science with coursework in subjects including the following:\n\n\nOn this track, students are introduced to the fundamental reaction mechanisms in the field of chemical and biochemical engineering.\n\nFor this track, students take classes introducing them to ways to conserve natural resources. This can include classes in water chemistry, sanitation, combustion, air pollution and radioactive waste management.\n\nThis examines geoengineering in detail.\n\nThis prepares the students for using their engineering and scientific knowledge to solve the interactions between plants, animals and the biosphere. \n\nThis includes further education about microbial, molecular and cell biology. Classes can include cell biology, virology, microbial and plant biology\n\nThis covers in more detail ways the environment can be protected through political means. This is done by introducing students to qualitative and quantitative tools in classes such as economics, sociology, political science and energy and resources.\n\nThe multidisciplinary approach in Environmental Engineering Science gives the student expertise in technical fields related to their own personal interest. While some graduates choose to use this major to go to graduate school, students who choose to work often go into the fields of civil and environmental engineering, biotechnology, and research. However, the less technical math, programming and writing background gives the students opportunities to pursue IT work and technical writing.\n\n\n\"MIT Course Catalog: Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering.\" Massachusetts Institute of Technology. <http://web.mit.edu/catalogue/degre.engin.civil.shtml>.\n\n2008-2009 Announcement. Brochure. Berkeley, 2008. Engineering Announcement 2008-2009. University of California, Berkeley. <https://web.archive.org/web/20081203005457/http://coe.berkeley.edu/students/EngAnn08.pdf>.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931650", "title": "Fort Victoria, Alberta", "text": "Fort Victoria, Alberta\n\nFort Victoria, near present-day Smoky Lake, Alberta, was established by the Hudson's Bay Company in 1864 on the North Saskatchewan River as a trading post with the local Cree First Nations. Today, it is a historical museum known as Victoria Settlement.\n\nVictoria was located on the banks of the North Saskatchewan River, downstream from Edmonton House on the way to Fort Pitt, and also along the overland route between the two, part of the Carlton Trail system. The fur trading post at Victoria was minor compared to Edmonton but soon attracted a small agricultural settlement around itself much like that at other H.B.C. posts at this time. Here land was divided in the customary French river lot system and a mixed community of First Nations, Métis, and Europeans developed. For several miles on each side of the present-day museum the river lot system is still in use, the farm here predating the large, square tracts of the \"Dominion Lands Act\" which surround them.\n\nThe Victoria Park Cemetery was established circa 1896 by the Methodist church and is located on a hill overlooking the river, it contains approximately 100 recognizable graves from both Native and Settler communities. It was restored and rededicated in 1999.\n\nIn 1864 George Flett was given the job of opening a Hudson's Bay Company trading post in Fort Victoria.\nFlett and John Norris led the first brigade of Red River ox-carts from Winnipeg to Edmonton, taking three and a half months on the journey.\nAs clerk in charge of the post, Flett was responsible for arranging for construction of the buildings and for opening up trade with the local Indians.\nFlett was successful in quickly obtaining a supply of good-quality furs, which Flett and his assistants took by horse and dog train to Fort Edmonton.\nThe oldest building in Alberta still on its original foundations is the clerk's quarters at Fort Victoria, which dates from 1865.\n\nLater the site of the Fort became a hub for the early settlement of East-Central Alberta. It came to be called the Victoria Settlement and later, Pakan. It also became home for the McDougall Presbyterian missionary family. Still later, the settlement served as a base for Methodist missionaries to the Ukrainian Canadians.\n\nThe post was also a vital stop on the trail from Winnipeg to Edmonton. The section of the trail currently within the eastern part of the city of Edmonton is a now a paved road called Victoria Trail in honour of the fort.\n\nThe Fort lies with the Kalyna Country ecomuseum. It has been designated a national historic site of Canada and a provincial historic site of Alberta. The museum that is there today is operated by the provincial government.\n\n\nThe Museum is affiliated with: CMA, CHIN, and Virtual Museum of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20223365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20223365", "title": "Garden of Cosmic Speculation", "text": "Garden of Cosmic Speculation\n\nThe Garden of Cosmic Speculation is a 30 acre (12 hectare) sculpture garden created by landscape architect and theorist Charles Jencks at his home, Portrack House, near Dumfries in South West Scotland. Like much of Jencks' work, the garden is inspired by modern cosmology.\n\nThe garden is inspired by science and mathematics, with sculptures and landscaping on these themes, such as black holes and fractals. The garden is not abundant with plants, but sets mathematical formulae and scientific phenomena in a setting which elegantly combines natural features and artificial symmetry and curves. It is probably unique among gardens, drawing comparisons with a similarly abstract garden in Scotland, Little Sparta.\n\nThe garden is private but usually opens for only five hours on one day each year for 1500 ticket holders through the Scotland's Gardens programme and raises money for Maggie's Centres, a cancer care charity named for Maggie Keswick Jencks, the late wife of Charles Jencks.\n\nThe garden is the subject of an orchestral composition by American composer, Michael Gandolfi, which he composed for a joint commission from the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the Tanglewood Music Center. The piece was subsequently recorded by the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra conducted by Robert Spano, and nominated for \"Best Contemporary Classical Composition\" at the 2009 Grammy Awards.\n\nLouise Penny uses \"The Garden of Cosmic Speculation\" as an important plot device in her tenth Inspector Gamache mystery, \"The Long Way Home\" (St. Martin Press, 2014).\n\nCameron Jace makes creative use of \"The Garden of Cosmic Speculation\" in his fictional novel titled \"Circus\", which is the third installment of his \"Insanity\" series. \nIn the book, Jace uses many true facts when referring to 'public' knowledge of the garden (per character conversation), but changed the name of the designer to better fit into the story's plot line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39951093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39951093", "title": "Geography of Franz Josef Land", "text": "Geography of Franz Josef Land\n\nThe Geography of Franz Josef Land refers to an island group belonging to Arkhangelsk Oblast of Russia. It is situated in the Barents Sea of the Arctic, north of Novaya Zemlya and east of Svalbard. At latitudes between 80.0° and 81.9° north, it is the most northerly group of islands associated with Eurasia. The extreme northernmost point is Cape Fligely on Rudolf Island. The archipelago consists of 191 ice-covered islands with a total area of . It is currently uninhabited. The archipelago is only from the North Pole, and the northernmost islands are closer to the Pole than any other land except for Canada's Ellesmere Island and Greenland. The largest island is Zemlya Georga (George Land) which measures from end to end. The highest point in the archipelago is on Ostrov Viner-Neyshtadt (Wiener Neustadt Island) which reaches above sea level. The central cluster of large islands in the midst of the archipelago forms a compact whole, known as Zichy Land, where islands are separated from each other by very narrow sounds that are frozen most of the year.\n\nDuring the period 1926 and 1932 Franz Josef Land also known in Russian as \"Zemlya Franca Josepha\" became a part of the Soviet Union and is included under the Arkhangelsk Oblast. In 1994, it was declared the Sakasnik Nature Reserve covering an area of including area of the sea surrounding the land but with restricted entry only on special permit which is not given easily; out of this area, area around the military base of Nagurskoye on the Alexandra Land is totally out of bounds.\n\nThe group of islands of the archipelago is located at the nearest about from the North Pole, much beyond the Polar Circle. The group’s 191 islands measure . They extend over a length of in the north-south direction and in the east-west direction. There are flat mountains in the range of above sea level. The general lie of the land is in the elevation range between in the north and in the south with Wilczek Land forming the highest land mass at an elevation of . The islands are covered with glaciers to the extent of 85%, with no land breaks, and the land area of all the islands is only about 20%, with a coastline measuring . There are multiple icebergs, with limited length of less than and some of them are similar to the Antarctic tabular iceberg. Air borne radar measurements have recorded an ice layer of in Graham Bell and Hall Islands; the thick ice cover on the islands is a phenomenon of the last 1000 years and as result the reindeer population has not survived in these islands. Moving down to the coastal region, where the ice disappears, many lakes and ponds are seen. But as this area is very limited only small streams are noted and the largest one is only on the George Prince Island.\nFranz Josef Land consists of 191 ice-covered islands with a total area of about ; the area varying with the fluctuation of glaciers during rising or receding stages. Its two largest islands are Alexander and Prince George. The main geographic subgroups in Franz Joseph Land (also called Land of the Kaiser Franz Joseph) are the northernmost archipelago of Eurasia and comprise Zemlya Zichy (Zichy Land), a large and compact glaciarized island cluster located in the middle of the archipelago containing ten large islands and Belaya Zemlya, a group of three islands in the northeast named Hvidtenland (\"White Land\") by Fridtjof Nansen, and many of them located on the located on both sides of the wide strait, which is called the Payer Austrian channel. Rudolph Island is the nearest to the North Pole. The largest island, Zemlya Georga (George Land) measures from end to end. The highest point in the archipelago is on Ostrov Viner-Neyshtadt (Wiener Neustadt Island) which reaches above sea level.\n\nThe western islands are separated from the other islands by the British channel and De Bruyne sound to the east. They include the large Alexandra and Prince George lands and the smaller Arthur, Bruce, Mabel, Bell Isabel and Northbrook islands.\n\nAlexandra Land is the westernmost island in the archipelago. It has an area of approximately . The sounds Cambridge Sound to the east and Arkhangelsky Sound off the northeast coast separate it from Zemlya Georga (also known as Prince George Land) to the east. Its highest point is in the centre of the island, and there is also a peak near the northern coast. Cape Nimrod lies on its western coast, and Cape George Thomas on its northeastern coast on Arkhangelsky Sound. There is a base named Nagurskoye near its northern coast, named after Jan Nagórski, which served as one of the most important meteorological stations in the archipelago during the Cold War. The northernmost Russian Air Force base is in the Alexander Island (though in a poor condition) with a small unit of security force is existing since 1955. Prior to this, the manned base station in the extreme north was in the Rudolph island which is defunct since 1955. It has a snow runway. An Antonov An-72 cargo aircraft crashed while landing at Nagurskoye on 23 December 1996.\n\nZemlya Georga, or Prince George Land, to the east of Alexandra Island is the largest island of Franz Josef Land which measures from end to end. It has an area of and lies within latitude 80.50° N and longitude 49.50° E. Its mapped shore length is . The highest point is in the northern-central part of the island. Jackson named the island after Queen Victoria's grandson as \"Prince George Land\". There are also peaks of on its western side and near the southwestern coast, northwest of Gray Bay. To the southeast of this is Nightingale Sound, which separates the island from the small islands of Bell island, Mabel Island and Bruce Island. To the north of this and off the east coast of Zemlya Georga is the British Channel, which has Hooker Island to the far southeast. Zemlya Georga has several capes on its northern end, including Cape Murray on the northeastern peninsula, Cape Bruce on the north-northeastern peninsula, and Cape Battenberg on the northern peninsula, marking the northernmost point of the island. Several streams during the summer season flow into the sea in the northwestern side, and Geographer Bay divides the northeastern and north-north eastern peninsulas. Off the north coast, Leigh Smith Sound separates Zemlya George from the small Arthur Island, which has a peak of and the Cape Ice Reconnaissance on its northern coast.\n\nThe south central group is separated from the other islands by the British Channel, Markham Sound and Austrian Strait.\nThey include the larger Hooker, McClintock, Hall and Salm islands, and many smaller islands.\n\nHooker Island, named after British naturalist Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker, lies to the southeast of Zemlya Georga, across the British Channel. It has an area of and lies within latitude 80.25° N and longitude 53.00° E. The highest point on the island is at elevation and its mapped shore length is . A graveyard and two modern buildings exist. On Hooker Island's western side there is a bay in an un-glaciated area, Tikhaya Bay ). A large seabird colony exists near Tikhaya Bay at Skala Rubini ), a spectacular rock formation on Hooker Island's shore. Tikhaya Bay was the site of a major base for polar expeditions, and the location of a meteorological station from 1929 to 1963. There is another bay in the south of the island called Zaliv Makarova and another in the east known as Ledn. To the southwest, De Bruyne Sound separates the island from Northbrook Island. To the north, Young Sound separates the island from the islands of Koettlitz and Namsen, Pritchet, and several others.\n\nThere are a number of islands surrounding Hooker Island. Scott-Keltie Island, with a highest point of , is an island off the northwest coast, and is named in honor of Scottish geographer Sir John Scott Keltie (1840-1927). beyond this, lying to the west of Scott-Keltie Island in the British Channel, is Eaton Island, a small, long island. This island, which appears as Ostrov Itol in many Russian maps, was named after British scientist Rev. Alfred Edvin Eaton (1844-1929). May Island is a small island lying off the south coast; to the southwest of this Etheridge Island, and to the southeast is Newton Island, offshore, named in honor of Alfred Newton. Leigh-Smith Island lies east of Hooker island, separated from it by a wide sound called Proliv Smitsona. It is long and has a maximum width of . The island's highest point is and its surface is wholly glacierized except for a small area at its northern point and another around Mys Bitterburga', its southernmost cape. This island is named after British yachtsman and explorer Benjamin Leigh Smith. West of Leigh-Smith Island's northern end, off Hooker island's northeastern shore, there is a smaller island known as Royal Society Island, named after the Royal Geographical Society. It is long and has a maximum width of .\n\nMacKlintok Island or McClintock Island, named after Irish explorer of the Arctic Francis Leopold McClintock, lies to the east of Brady Island, which lies to the east of Leigh-Smith Island and Hooker Island. This island, located within latitude 80.20° N and longitude 54.80° E, is roughly square-shaped. Its maximum length is and its mapped shore length is . Its area is , It is largely glaciated. The island's highest point is in the eastern-central part of the island, and there is a peak near the northeastern coast. The island is located very close to the west of Hall Island, separated from it by a narrow sound, Proliv Negri. The island's northernmost point is Mys Grili (Greely Cape) and the southeastern is Mys Oppoltsera (Cape Oppholtzer).\n\nAlger Island and the smaller Mathilda Island lies off MacKlintok Island's northern shore, separated from Alger by a narrow sound. Its highest point is near the centre at . Brady Island off the west coast is a relatively large island and is mostly glaciated. It is located west of MacKlintok Island's northwestern tip, separated from it by the wide Aberdare Sound (Proliv Abyerder). The highest point on Brady Island is ; it was named after the English scientist George Brady. Mys Vize, Brady Island's northernmost cape, is named after Russian Arctic expert Vladimir Wiese. There are also several islands off the southern shore including the Ostrova Borisika islets and Aagaard Island, off the southern coast, named in honor of Bjarne Aagaard, a Norwegian expert on Antarctic whaling and exploration.\n\nAlger Island, (Russian: Ostrov Altzer), is a small island at latitude 80° 23′ N and longitude 56.00° E. It divides the south central islands and the north central group, and is located to the south of Markham Strait. McClintock Island lies to its south. Discovered in August 1899 by the Waltter Welmann expedition, it was named after Russell A. Alger, US Secretary of War. The coast line is fairly ice free. In 1901, Evilyn Baldwin established a camp here and named it Camp Zeigler, after William Ziegler who had sponsored the expedition.\n\nHall Island (Ostrov Gallya) is an almost completely glacierized large island of immediately to the east of MacKlintok Island. It lies within latitude 80.30° N and longitude 56.00° E. The highest point on the island is and its mapped shore length is . It was named after American Arctic explorer Charles Francis Hall. The only relatively large areas free of permanent ice are located in its southern end, where there are two headlands, Cape Tegethoff, and Cape Ozernyy, on the Littov Peninsula. Cape Tegethoff has a range of hill peaks. The airborne surveys revealed thick mantles of ice and also in Graham Bell Island’s ice capes. There is also a very small unglacierized area around its eastern cape, Cape Frankfurt, and another in its northwestern point, Cape Wiggins. Its highest point is near its southwestern side, and there is also a peak of in the northcentral part of the island. There is a wide bay on the southeastern side of Hall Island known as Hydrographer Bay and a smaller one west of the Littov Peninsula, known as Bukhta Surovaya. To the southeast, there is a wider strait separating Hall Island from Salm Island, known as Proliv Lavroka. The strait to the east is known as Avstriskiy Proliv.\n\nJust off the northern shore of Hall Island lie three small islets known as the Brown Islands, named in honor of George Brown of the Royal Navy, who participated in the 1850-1854 expedition in search of Sir John Franklin on the \"Investigator\". West off Hall island's northwestern cape lies oval-shaped long Newcomb Island, with a highest point of . This island was named after , the naval officer in charge of the ill-fated DeLong expedition on the \"Jeannette\". off the northeastern side of Hall Island's eastern bay lies the small but steep Berghaus Island, reaching a height of . Unglacierized, this island was named after cartographer Heinrich Berghaus (1797-1884).\n\nSal'm Island, located on the wide strait of the Payer Austrian channel, encompasses an area of with an altitude or and the shore length is .\n\nThe north central group lies to the north of the Markham sound and Austrian Strait. It includes Rudolf island to the north, the Zichy Land cluster of islands, and Heiss and Komsomol islands to the southeast.\n\nCape Fligely on Rudolf Island at 81°52' N is the extreme northernmost point of Franz Josef Land. Lieutenant Julius von Payer, an officer of the Austro-Hungarian army, cartographer, and mountaineer, placed an Austrian flag and primitive shelter at Cape Fligely during an expedition in 1874. The Baldwin Xiegler expedition arrived in 1902 and established a depot, and the Fiala-Ziegeler expedition set up camp here for two seasons. A meteorological station was set up in 1932 in coordination with International Polar Year (1932-3) but was evacuated in 1941. A later station functioned until 1995. Several pre-World War II Soviet stations existed in Teplitz Bay but little has remained according to the observations of the \"Kapitan Dranitsyn\" expedition in 2004.\n\nThe islands of the Zemlya Zichy archipelago are separated from each other by very narrow sounds that are frozen most of the year, forming a compact whole.\nFrom north to south the main islands are Karl-Alexander Island, Rainer Island, Jackson Island, Payer Island, Greely Island, Ziegler Island, Salisbury Island, Wiener Neustadt Island, Luigi Island and Champ Island.\n\nKarl-Alexander Island covers an area of with an elevation of and its shoreline measures .\nRaynera Island has an area of . The elevation of the island is , and it has a shoreline of length.\nJackson Island (\"Ostrov Dzheksona\"), discovered by Frederick George Jackson in May 1895, is in area; its highest elevation is and its mapped shore length is .\nGreely Island, also Grili, encompasses an area of with a shore length of . Payera Island covers an area of with an altitude of , and has a shoreline extending over length. \nSalisbury Island, also known as Solsberi Island, has an area of and the highest point is elevation . The mapped shore length is .\n\nWiener Neustadt Island, also Viner-Noyshtadt or Viner N'Ojstadt, lies at . It has an area of and has a highest point of . Its shores extend over a length of . Luigi Island, also known as \"Ostrov Luidzhi\", has a surface area of ; the highest point of the island is and it has a shore line of .\nChamp Island has an area of and is at an elevation of and its shore line measures .\n\nHeiss Island and Komsomol Island lie southeast of Zichy land. The Austria Strait separates Hall Island from Komsomol and the large Wilczek Island further to the northeast.\nHeiss Island, also known as Kheysa or Chejsa island, is bound within latitude 80.55° N and longitude 57.50° E. It encompasses an area of . Its mapped shore length is . The abandoned Kheysa, Soviet rocket launching site, was located on this island. In the Geophysical Year 1957-58, a new meteorological station, which over the years became the largest such station, was established on the banks of a small crater lake in the ice free zone of this island and named after Krenkel, a polar expedition hero. The station was closed in 2000 and abandoned buildings are still seen here. Another weather station was established in 2005. The island is named after the Arctic explorer, Isaac Hayes.\n\nWilczek Land is barren and basaltic rock cliffs are exposed. It lies to the northeast of Hall Island across the Austrian Strait. It is the second largest island of the Franz Josef Archipelago and is almost completely glaciarized except for two narrow areas along its western shores. The highest point on the island is , in the western central part. This large island is named after Austro-Hungarian Count Johann Nepomuk Wilczek, involved in the Austro-Hungarian North Pole Expedition. This island should not be confused with small Wilczek Island, located southwest of Salm Island and named after the same person. Mys Ganza is Wilczek Land's westernmost cape. Cape Geller was the wintering site for two members of the 1899 Welle Expedition waiting for their team's return from the pole.\n\nOff Wilczek Land's southern bay lies the small Klagenfurt Island, about away from the shore, named after Klagenfurt, the capital of Carinthia. McNult Island lies just off the southeastern cape, with several other islets. Just off the eastern coast of Wilczek Land lie two small islets called Ostrova Gorbunova, named after Russian naturalist Gregory Petrovich Gorbunov. The northern side of Wilczek is separated from La Ronciere Island by a straight known as Wanderbilt. The small island of Geddes lies off the northwestern point. To the east, Wilczek Land is separated from Graham Bell Sound by the Morgan Straight.\n\nGraham Bell Island, the easternmost island of Franz Josef Land, is immediately to the northeast of Wilczek Land across the Morgan Strait and is one of the larger islands in the archipelago, with an area of . Partially glaciated, its highest point is near the southern centre. Cape Kohlsaat, the easternmost point of the archipelago at 81°14′N, 65°10′E, lies on Graham Bell Island's eastern shore. Cape Kohlsaat marks the northwesternmost corner of the Kara Sea, therefore it is a significant geographical landmark. Cape Leiter lies on the south point of the island. This island was named after inventor Alexander Graham Bell. Graham Bell Island should not be confused with the smaller Bell Island which is also part of the Franz Josef Archipelago and which was also named after the same person. Graham Bell Island is home to a Cold War outpost (shut down in 1994) and an airfield Green Bell with a runway long. This small island is mostly ice free and has a lagoon in the backdrop of a bell shaped mountain. The log cabin built by Benjamin Leigh Smith in 1881 is a well preserved cabin even now and is the oldest house on the land though unoccupied.\n\nGraham Bell Island's northern shore is fringed by clusters of very small islets. Three-ray Island lies off the western coast. Ostrov Perlamutrovyy (Pyerlamutrov Island) lies off the southeastern shore of Graham Bell Island, the long Ostrov Trëkhluchevoy lies off its western shore, and Ostrov Udachnyy is part of a cluster of islets located along the northwestern shore.\n\nEva-Liv Island, also Yeva-Liv or Jeva Liv, is the northeastern extremity of Franz Josef Land at . It covers an area of . It has an altitude of and a mapped shore length of . The island was discovered by Nansen and Johansen on 24 July 1895. Nansen thought there were two islands, and named them after his wife and daughter. In 1905 it was found that \"Eva\" and \"Liv\" were in fact one island.\n\nIslands of Franz Josef Land include:\nMarkham Sound is a waterway between Zichy Land and the islands of McClintock and Hall. West of the British Channel is Prince George Land. Alexandra Land contains Weyprecht Bay. West of Austria Sound is Zichy Land. Immediately north of Franz Josef Land is the Queen Victoria Sea.\n\nClimatic conditions here are very severe with lowest temperature touching minus (-)25 °C to (-) 30 °C during winter; even in summers the temperature does not rise above . The polar nights lasts for 125 days while the polar days are 140. Climatically none of the Gulf Streams touch the 75 islands of the Franz Josef Land. While Polynias are the wind and sea currents that prevail in the northern and southern part of the land mass, which are the causative factors for the large ice free zone in the sea, the eastern and northern winds cause very cold breeze. The rainfall in the land varies between and but mostly in the form of snow.\n\nTwo distinct geological formations identified are of the Late Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary process which are recorded to a depth of at Cape Flora and it recedes gradually towards the coast line of the sea in the north. Fossilized tree trunks here attest to this assessment. Above the Jurassic sedimentary layer of thickness, which is basaltic, cretaceous period intrusions of dolerite caused by volcanic eruptions are recorded. Also seen are many fault zones which have contributed to the removal of volcanic layers and exposing plateau tops and rock walls. Another feature noted here is of the shore line which appears to have receded, as a result of island formations (the rise of the islands above the icy sea is reported to be per year). Though most of the land is covered by glacial ice, it does have outcrops covered with moss. The northeastern part of the archipelago is locked in pack ice most of the year round; however the ice sometimes retreats north past the islands in summer (September).\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "56705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56705", "title": "Geography of the Maldives", "text": "Geography of the Maldives\n\nMaldives is a country of South Asia, situated in the Indian Ocean, south-southwest of India. It consists of approximately 1,190 coral islands grouped in a double chain of 26 atolls, spread over roughly 90,000 square kilometers, making this one of the most disparate countries in the world. Composed of live coral reefs and sand bars, the atolls are situated atop a submarine ridge 960 kilometers long that rises abruptly from the depths of the Indian Ocean and runs from north to south. Only near the southern end of this natural coral barricade do two open passages permit safe ship navigation from one side of the Indian Ocean to the other through the territorial waters of Maldives. For administrative purposes the Maldives government organized these atolls into nineteen administrative divisions.\n\nThe largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef and the total length of the road is 14 km.\n\nGeographic coordinates: \n\nMost atolls of the Maldives consist of a large, ring-shaped coral reef supporting numerous small islands. Islands average only one to two square kilometers in area, and lie between one and 1.5 meters above mean sea level. Although some of the larger atolls are approximately 50 kilometers long from north to south, and 30 kilometers wide from east to west, no individual island is longer than eight kilometers.\n\nThe Maldives has no hills, but some islands have dunes which can reach above sea level, like the NW coast of Hithadhoo (Seenu Atoll) in Addu Atoll. Islands are too small to have rivers, but small lakes and marshes can be found in some of them.\n\nOn average, each atoll has approximately 5 to 10 inhabited islands; the uninhabited islands of each atoll number approximately 20 to 60. Some atolls, however, consist of one large, isolated island surrounded by a steep coral beach. The most notable example of this type of atoll is the large island of Fuvahmulah situated in the Equatorial Channel.\n\nThe tropical vegetation of Maldives differs in the inhabited and in the uninhabited islands. Inhabited islands have small groves of banana, papaya, drumstick and citrus trees by the homesteads, while breadfruit trees and coconut palms are grown in available patches of land. On the other hand, uninhabited islands have mostly different kinds of bushes (magū, boshi) and mangroves (kuredi, kandū) along the waterline as well as some coconut trees.\n\nSome islands are marshy, while others are higher owing to sand and gravel having been piled up by wave action. Often the soil is highly alkaline, and a deficiency in nitrogen, potash, and iron severely limits agricultural potential. Ten percent of the land, or about 26 km², is cultivated with taro, bananas, coconuts, and other fruit. Only the lush island of Fuvammulah produces fruits such as oranges and pineapples - partly because the terrain of Fuvammulah sits higher than most other islands, leaving the groundwater less subject to seawater penetration. However, as population grows, even in this island the cultivated areas are shrinking rapidly.\n\nFreshwater floats in a layer known as \"Ghyben/Herzberg lens\" above the seawater that permeates the limestone and coral sands of the islands. These lenses are shrinking rapidly on Male and on many islands where there are resorts catering to foreign tourists. Mango trees already have been reported dying on Male because of salt penetration. Most residents of the atolls depend on groundwater or rainwater for drinking purposes.\n\nThe temperature of Maldives ranges between throughout the year. Although the humidity is relatively high, the constant sea breezes help to keep the air moving. Two seasons dominate Maldives' weather: the dry season associated with the winter northeast monsoon and the rainy season brought by the summer southwest monsoon. The annual rainfall averages in the north and in the south.\n\nThe weather in Maldives is affected by the large landmass of the South Asia to the north. The presence of this landmass causes differential heating of land and water. Scientists also cite other factors in the formation of monsoons, including the barrier of the Himalayas on the northern fringe of the South Asia and the sun's northward tilt, which shifts the jet stream north. These factors set off a rush of moisture-rich air from the Indian Ocean over the South Asia, resulting in the southwest monsoon. The hot air that rises over the South Asia during April and May creates low-pressure areas into which the cooler, moisture-bearing winds from the Indian Ocean flow. In Maldives, the wet southwest monsoon lasts from the end of April to the end of October and brings the worst weather with strong winds and storms. In May 1991 violent monsoon winds created tidal waves that damaged thousands of houses and piers, flooded arable land with seawater, and uprooted thousands of fruit trees. The damage caused was estimated at US$30 million.\n\nThe shift from the moist southwest monsoon to the dry northeast monsoon over the South Asia occurs during October and November. During this period, the northeast winds contribute to the formation of the northeast monsoon, which reaches Maldives in the beginning of December and lasts until the end of March. However, the weather patterns of Maldives do not always conform to the monsoon patterns of the South Asia. Rain showers over the whole country have been known to persist for up to one week during the midst of the dry season.\n\nArea:\n<br>\"total:\"\n298 km²\n<br>\"land:\"\n298 km²\n<br>\"water:\"\n0 km²\n\nCoastline:\n644 km\n\nMaritime claims:\nmeasured from claimed archipelagic baselines\n<br>\"territorial sea:\"\n\n<br>\"contiguous zone:\"\n\n<br>\"exclusive economic zone:\"\nElevation extremes:\n<br>\"lowest point:\"\nIndian Ocean 0 m\n<br>\"highest point:\"\nunnamed location on Vilingili Island in the Addu Atoll 2.4 m (Maldives is the flattest country in the world, i.e. they have the lowest high-point of any country in the world).\n\nNatural resources:\nfish\n\nLand use:\n<br>\"arable land:\"\n10%\n<br>\"permanent crops:\"\n10%\n<br>\"other:\"\n80% (2011)\n\nIrrigated land:\n0 km (2003)\n\nTotal renewable water resources:\n0.03 km (2011)\n\nNatural hazards:\ntsunamis; low level of islands makes them very sensitive to sea level rise. <br>\nSome scientists fear it could be underwater by 2050 or 2100. The UN's environmental panel has warned that, at current rates, sea level would be high enough to make the country uninhabitable by 2100.\nPresident Mohamed Nasheed aims to turn the Maldives into an entirely carbon neutral nation by 2020.\n\nEnvironment - current issues:\ndepletion of freshwater aquifers threatens water supplies, global warming and sea level rise, coral reef bleaching\n\nEnvironment - international agreements:\nBiodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution \n\n\nIndia (Laccadives)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18322625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18322625", "title": "Geology of Andorra", "text": "Geology of Andorra\n\nAndorra is located in the \"Axial Zone\" of the central Pyrenees mountain range in south western Europe, which means that it has intensely folded and thrusted rocks formed when the Iberian peninsula was rotated onto the European continent.\n\nRocks from the Cambrian or Ordovician occur in the form of conglomerate, limestone, phyllite, quartzite, and slate. Diapirs of slate from the Silurian Period are found in the Llavirsi syncline near Bixessarri in the south west. Gneiss and schist are found in the cores of anticlines in the north east of the country. This gneiss contains muscovite. The antiforms are connected with near horizontal shear zones, containing nappes of metamorphosed sediments. Younger overlying Paleozoic metamorphosed sediments found over most of Andorra have also been steeply folded.\n\nIn the south east of the country is an alkaline granite from a batholith called Mt-Louis-Andorra Batholith. It extends into Spain and covers an area of . Different rock composition zones occur, with monzogranite found at the centre, quartz diorite at the edge and granodiorite in intermediate parts. The batholith has caused metamorphism on its western edge. The base of the batholith is exposed in the east of Andorra.\n\nIn the Central and Eastern Pyrenees, which includes Andorra, no fossils older than the Ordovician Caradoc 450–460 million years ago have been found.\n\nAndorra was extensively glaciated during the Quaternary; glaciers flowed down all of the major valleys of Andorra, merging into one large glacier at Escaldes-Engordany, which in the coldest stage reached as far south as Pont de la Fontaneda near Santa Coloma. Andorra has numerous glacial erosional features, including U-shaped valleys, cirques, arêtes, and roche moutonnées. Examples of cirques include the Cirque de Pessons in the east, Llac de Tristaina in the northwest, and the two cirques at approximately 2400 m elevation on Pic de Casamanya (2740 m). Santa Coloma has a glacial terminal moraine.\n\n"}
{"id": "57583595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57583595", "title": "Geology of Ghana", "text": "Geology of Ghana\n\nThe geology of Ghana is primarily very ancient crystalline basement rock, volcanic belts and sedimentary basins, affected by periods of igneous activity and two major orogeny mountain building events. Aside from modern sediments and some rocks formed within the past 541 million years of the Phanerozoic Eon, along the coast, many of the rocks in Ghana formed close to one billion years ago or older leading to five different types of gold deposit formation, which gave the region its former name Gold Coast. \n\nAncient rocks from the Paleoproterozoic, Neoproterozoic and perhaps early Paleozoic cover almost all of Ghana, except near the coast where Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic rocks are common. \n\nPaleoproterozoic rock units belonging to Birimian Supergroup, common across West Africa, dominate northwest and southwest Ghana. The Birimian Supergroup has two units, one a succession of sedimentary rocks including phyllite, tuff and greywacke overlain by conglomerate, sandstone and shale and the other a volcanic tholeiitic magma series. Originally, geologists separated the units into the Lower Birimian and the Upper Birimian, but subsequent research found that the volcanic rocks form several hundred kilometer belts within the larger supergroup, with low-grade metamorphism of the tholeiitic lava rocks. \n\nThe volcanic belts from north to south are the Lawra Belt, Bole-Navrongo Belt, Sefwi Belt, Asankrangwa Belt, Ashanti Belt and Kibi-Winiba Belt. Except for the Lawra Belt, they all trend northeast-southwest. Between the different belts are basins filled with dacite, argillite, volcaniclastic and granitoid rocks with isocline folding. At the transition between the basins and the volcanic belts are small outcrops of chert, carbonates and manganese-rich sediments, which are inferred to be the exhalative remains of the eruptions that formed the volcanic belts. \n\nThe volcanic and sedimentary rocks were folded during the Eburnean orogeny 2.2 to 2.0 billion years ago and intruded by granitoids. The orogeny also uplifted and eroded the rocks, filling a large graben with a folded molasse series of new sedimentary rocks, known as the Tarkwaian Group. Around the same time, the Birimian Supergroup was intruded again, this time by Cape Coast type batholith granites and granodiorite, along with the Winneba type which has an Archean sial origin from the upper most layer of the mantle. Ghana also has a few other types of granites from this time period, including the Dixcove type, which formed an unfoliated intrusion in the volcanic belt and the rare Bongo potassic granitoids, which formed after the Eburnean orogeny. \n\nIn the Neoproterozoic, Ghana was affected by the Pan-African orogeny. Today, the Pan-African mobile belt terrane spans eastern and southeastern Ghana, with several different units. The Dahomeyan System comprises both mafic and felsic gneiss while the Togo Series includes quartzite, shale and small amounts of serpentinite. The Buem Group is a mix of sediments and igneous rocks, including shale, sandstone, basalt, trachyte and volcanoclastic rocks. \n\nThe Volta Basin formed during the Neoproterozoic and includes the one kilometer thick sandstones and claystones of the Bambouaka Supergroup, which emplaced between 1.1 billion and 700 million years ago. In the Neoproterozoic, the Snowball Earth event led to widespread glaciation in what is now Africa. Glacial erosion created an unconformity between the Bambouaka Supergroup and the Pendjari Supergroup (also known as the Oti Supergroup), which in some cases is directly atop more ancient crystalline basement rock. The 2.5 kilometer thick, 600 to 700 million year old Pendjari Supergroup has tillite and dolomitic limestone, rich in barite and silixite at its base and siltstone and argillite in its upper layers. The third major unit in the Volta Basin is the Tamale Supergroup, with a thickness of 500 meters, claystone and siltstone at its base, giving way to coarse sandstone. Geologists debate the age of the Tamale Supergroup which may have formed in the Late Neoproterozoic or possibly in the Cambrian of the Early Paleozoic era. \n\nThe Phanerozoic, the current eon in which multicellular life became commonplace is mainly recorded along the coast of Ghana. The Accraian Series deposited in the Early Devonian and Middle Devonian while the Sekondian Series formed between the Middle Devonian and the Early Cretaceous, overlapping with the Late Jurassic to Early Cretaceous Amisian Group. The Late Cretaceous Apollonian Group is among the most recent rock units. The past 66 million years of the Cenozoic are mainly recorded with marine, lagoonal and riverine sedimentary rocks as well as with unconsolidated sediments that cover most of the country and form soils. \n\nThe three major units of the Volta Basin are important aquifers in eastern Ghana with very low, if any, intergranular permeability. The middle and upper Pendjari Supergroup and Obosum Group sandstones, mudstones and siltstones typically have low mineralization, but contain some fluoride, while the deeper Bambouaka Supergroup rocks have generally high sulfate, iron and manganese concentrations and in some places fluoride and high salinity. Although generally impermeable, fractured rock aquifers in basement rocks cover most of southern and western Ghana with slight acidity, low salinity, low hardness and low iodine, but high fluoride. In some places in southwest Ghana, groundwater from weathered basement rock contains high levels of arsenic associated with gold in mineralized veins. \n\nGroundwater recharge is poorly studied in Ghana except for 15 monitored wells in the northeast. \n\nGold plays an important role in the economy of Ghana, with up to 1500 tons of gold produced throughout its history. Ghana has five major types of gold deposits. Native gold in steeply dipping quartz veins in shear zones at the margins of Birimian basins, arsenopyrite in sulfur bodies, disseminated mineralization in basin granitoid rocks and alluvial placer gold in river deposits in gravel are major sources of gold. In some cases, ancient placer gold has mineralized and reconstituted along wit other minerals such magnetite and hematite in the quartz-pebble conglomerates of the Tarkwaian Group. \n\nFrom the late 15th century until the mid 19th century, two-thirds of Africa's gold production was estimated to have originated from the Gold Coast. Annual production in the early 1980s was 12,000-15,000 kg. The major primary gold lodes are found in the shear zone between the Lower Birimian phyllites and Upper Birimian greenstones, and consist of quartz veins and lenticular reefs. The gold is usually accompanied with arsenopyrite. Mines along the west side of the Tarkwa syncline include the Obuasi Gold Mine, and those located at Prestea and Konongo. Sedimentary gold is found in the Banket conglomerate near the base of the Tarkwaian. This includes the Iduapriem Gold Mine, Teberebie Mine, and those located at Tarkwa, and Abosso, located along the eastern margin of the Tarkwa syncline. Accompanying minerals include rutile, zircon, and detrital hematite, all within gravel horizons. Placer gold is mainly dredge mined along the Ofin River at Dunkwa-on-Offin. Additionally, eluvium, beach sands, terraces, and Pleistocene stream sediments contain alluvial gold. \n\nSignificant diamond deposits are found in river gravels in the central and eastern part of Ghana, although the country does not have kimberlite pipes where diamonds formed in the geologic past. Awaso, in southwest Ghana hosts a bauxite mine run by the Ghana Bauxite Company. The bauxite formed from the weathering of Paleoproterozoic phyllite. Nsuta in the Sekyere Central District of the Ashanti Region has a manganese oxide and carbonate mine. The country also has small, poorly researched deposits of asbestos, chromite, andalusite, mica, barite, cassiterite, columbite, monazite, beryl, spodumene and molybdenite. It also has nepheline syenite and on-shore alluvial deposits of rutile and ilmenite. \nGhana has widespread quarrying of sand, gravel, kaolin and other clay deposits for road and building construction as well as brick production. \n\n"}
{"id": "58319247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58319247", "title": "Geology of the Maldives", "text": "Geology of the Maldives\n\nThe geology of the Maldives formed beginning 68 million years ago as a hotspot which produced the Deccan Traps in India. As India moved northward, the hotspot generated an island chain in the Indian Ocean, which includes Mauritius and Reunion. The Reunion hotspot trail was offset by the Central Indian Ridge 35 million years ago. The hotspot theory is supported by the fact that the basement basalts underlying the atolls of the Maldives are younger in the south, toward Reunion. <ref></ref >\n"}
{"id": "22844426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22844426", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GS", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GS\n\nISO 3166-2:GS is the entry for South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently no ISO 3166-2 codes are defined in the entry for South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands. The territory has no defined subdivisions.\n\nSouth Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands is officially assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code .\n\n"}
{"id": "11346154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11346154", "title": "Index of Malta-related articles", "text": "Index of Malta-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to Malta.\n\n"}
{"id": "28940153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28940153", "title": "International rankings of Belarus", "text": "International rankings of Belarus\n\nThe following is a list of international rankings of .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "519137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519137", "title": "John Mason (governor)", "text": "John Mason (governor)\n\nCaptain John Mason (1586–1635) was a sailor and colonizer born at King's Lynn, Norfolk, England, and educated at Peterhouse, Cambridge. He was appointed the second Proprietary Governor of Newfoundland's Cuper's Cove colony in 1615, succeeding John Guy. Mason arrived on the island in 1616 and explored much of the territory. He compiled a map of the island and wrote and published a short tract (or \"Discourse\") of his findings.\n\nMason drew up the first known English map of the island of Newfoundland. Published in William Vaughan's Cambrensium Caroleia in 1625, the map included previously established placenames as well as new ones such as Bristol's Hope and Butter Pots, near Renews. His tract entitled \"A Briefe Discourse of the New-Found-Land with the situation, temperature, and commodities thereof, inciting our nation to go forward in the hopefull plantation begunne\", was published in 1620 by Mason while in England.\n\nIn 1620 King James I's Privy Council issued Mason a commission and provided him with a ship to suppress piracy in Newfoundland. Mason ceased to be Cuper's Cove governor in 1621 and apparently he was not replaced, although the settlement continued to be occupied throughout the seventeenth century.\n\nUpon returning to England, Mason consulted with Sir William Alexander about possibly colonizing Nova Scotia. In 1622, Mason and Sir Ferdinando Gorges received a patent from the Council for New England for all the territory lying between the Merrimack and Kennebec rivers. In 1629 they divided the grant along the Piscataqua River, with Mason receiving the southern portion. The colony was recharted as the Province of New Hampshire. It included most of the southeastern part of the current state of New Hampshire, as well as portions of present-day Massachusetts north of the Merrimack.\n\nAlthough Mason never set foot in New England, he was appointed first vice-admiral of New England in 1635. He died that same year while preparing for his first voyage to the new colony.\n\n"}
{"id": "22235683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22235683", "title": "Jutland", "text": "Jutland\n\nJutland (; ; ), also known as the Cimbric or Cimbrian Peninsula (; ; ), is a peninsula of Northern Europe that forms the continental portion of Denmark and part of northern Germany. The names are derived from the Jutes and the Cimbri, respectively. Jutland's terrain is relatively flat, with open lands, heaths, plains and peat bogs in the west and a more elevated and slightly hilly terrain in the east.\n\nJutland is a peninsula bounded by the North Sea to the west, the Skagerrak to the north, the Kattegat and Baltic Sea to the east and Germany to the south. Geographically and historically, Jutland comprises the regions of South Jutland, West Jutland, East Jutland (including Djursland) and North Jutland (including Himmerland, Vendsyssel and Thy). There are several historical subdivisions and regional names, some of which are still occasionally encountered today. They include \"Nørrejyllland\", \"Sydvestjylland\", \"Nordvestjylland\" and \"Slesvig\". Politically, Jutland currently comprises the three contemporary Danish Administrative Regions of North Denmark Region, Central Denmark Region and the Region of Southern Denmark, along with portions of the German state of Schleswig-Holstein.\n\nIn medieval times, Jutland was regulated by the Law Code of Jutland (\"Jyske Lov\"). This civic code covered the Danish part of the Jutland Peninsula, i.e. north of the Eider (river), Funen as well as Fehmarn.\n\nThe Danish part of Jutland is currently divided into three administrative regions: North Denmark Region, Central Denmark Region and Region of Southern Denmark. These three regions have a total area of , a population of 2,599,104 (2016) and a population density of 84 per km (218 per sq.mi.).\n\nThe northernmost part of Jutland is separated from the mainland by the Limfjord, a narrow stretch of water bisecting the peninsula from coast to coast. The Limfjord was formerly a long brackish water inlet, but a breaching North Sea flood in 1825 created a coast to coast connection. This area is called the North Jutlandic Island, Vendsyssel-Thy (after its districts) or simply \"Jutland north of the Limfjord\"; it is only partly co-terminous with the North Jutland region.\n\nThe islands of Læsø, Anholt and Samsø in Kattegat and Als at the rim of the Baltic Sea South are administratively and historically tied to Jutland although the latter two are also regarded as traditional districts of their own. Inhabitants of Als would agree to be South Jutlanders, but not necessarily Jutlanders.\n\nThe Danish Wadden Sea Islands and the German North Frisian Islands stretch along the southwest coast of Jutland in the German Bight.\n\nThe largest cities in the Danish section of Jutland are as follows:\n\nAarhus, Silkeborg, Billund, Randers, Kolding, Horsens, Vejle, Fredericia and Haderslev, along with a number of smaller towns, make up the East Jutland metropolitan area.\n\nAdministratively, Danish Jutland comprises three of Denmark's five regions, namely the Region Nordjylland, Region Midtjylland and the western half of Region of Southern Denmark, which includes Funen. The five administrative regions came into effect on 1 January 2007, following a structural reform.\n\nThe southern third of the Jutland peninsula is made up of the German Bundesland of Schleswig-Holstein. Schleswig-Holstein has two parts: the former duchies of Schleswig (Danish fief) and Holstein (German fief), both of which have passed back and forth between Danish and German rulers several times. The last adjustment of the Danish–German border followed the Schleswig Plebiscites in 1920 and resulted in Denmark's regaining Northern Schleswig ( or more commonly today: \"Sønderjylland\").\n\nThe historical southern border of Jutland are areas south of Kiel, Husum and Rendsburg, but the river Eider was the border between the former duchies of Schleswig and Holstein, as well as the historical border between the Danish and German realms from c. 850 to 1864. Although most of Schleswig-Holstein is geographically part of the Jutland peninsula, most German residents there would not identify themselves with Jutland or even as \"Jutlanders\", but rather with \"North Germany\" () and Schleswig-Holstein, considering themselves \"Northern Germans\" () and \"Schleswig-Holsteiner\".\n\nThe medieval law Code of Jutland applied to Schleswig until 1900 when it was replaced by the Prussian Civil Code. Some rarely used clauses of the Jutlandic Code still apply north of the Eider, even some cities south of the river- all of Rendsburg and more than half of Kiel.\n\nThe largest cities in the German part of Jutland or the Jutland Peninsula are Kiel and Flensburg.\n\nGeologically the Mid Jutland Region and the North Jutland Region as well as the Capital Region of Denmark are located in the north of Denmark which is rising because of post-glacial rebound.\n\nJutland has historically been one of the three lands of Denmark, the other two being Scania and Zealand. Before that, according to Ptolemy, Jutland or the \"Cimbric Chersonese\" was the home of Teutons, Cimbri and Charudes.\n\nMany Angles, Saxons and Jutes migrated from Continental Europe to Great Britain starting in c. 450 AD. The Angles themselves gave their name to the new emerging kingdoms called England (i.e., \"Angle-land\").\nSaxons and Frisii migrated to the region in the early part of the Christian era. To protect themselves from invasion by the Christian Frankish emperors, the Danes built the Danevirke, a wall stretching across South Jutland from the North Sea to the Baltic Sea, beginning in the 8th century.\n\nThe pagan Saxons inhabited the southernmost part of the peninsula at the Baltic Sea until the Saxon Wars in 772-804 AD in the Nordic Iron Age, when Charlemagne violently subdued them and forced them to be Christianised. Old Saxony was politically absorbed into the Carolingian Empire and Abodrites (or Obotrites), a group of Wendish Slavs who pledged allegiance to Charlemagne and who had for the most part converted to Christianity, was moved into the area to populate it. Old Saxony was later on referred to as Holstein.\n\nTo speed transit between the Baltic and the North Sea, canals have been built across the peninsula, notably the Eider Canal in the late 18th century and the Kiel Canal, completed in 1895 and still in use.\n\nDuring the First World War, the Battle of Jutland in the North Sea west of Jutland was one of the largest naval battles in history. In this pitched battle, the British Royal Navy engaged the Imperial German Navy, leading to heavy casualties and losses of ships on both sides. The British fleet sustained greater losses, but remained in control of the North Sea, so in strategic terms, most historians regard Jutland either as a British victory or as indecisive.\n\nThe distinctive Jutish (or Jutlandic) dialects differ substantially from standard Danish, especially West Jutlandic and South Jutlandic. Dialect usage, although in decline, is better preserved in Jutland than in eastern Denmark, and Jutlander speech remains a stereotype among many Copenhageners and eastern Danes.\n\nJutland native Maren Madsen emigrated to the American town of Yarmouth, Maine, in the late 19th century. She wrote a memoir documenting the transition, titled \"From Jutland's Brown Heather to the Land Across the Sea\". She married Christian Christensen, with whom she had four children. Maren died in 1965, aged about 93. She and her family are all buried in Cumberland County, Maine.\n\n"}
{"id": "840268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840268", "title": "Karst Plateau (Italy-Slovenia)", "text": "Karst Plateau (Italy-Slovenia)\n\nThe Karst Plateau or the Karst region (, ), also locally called Karst, is a karst plateau region extending across the border of southwestern Slovenia and northeastern Italy.\n\nIt lies between the Vipava Valley, the low hills surrounding the valley, the westernmost part of the Brkini Hills, northern Istria, and the Gulf of Trieste. The western edge of the plateau also marks the traditional ethnic border between Italians and Slovenes. The region gave its name to the karst topography. For this reason, it is also referred to as the \"Classical Karst\".\n\nThe plateau rises quite steeply above the neighboring landscape, except for its northeastern side, where the steepness is less pronounced. The plateau gradually descends from the southeast to the southwest. On average it lies 334 m above sea level. Its western edge, known as the Karst Rim (), is a continuation of the Učka mountain range in eastern Istria, and rises to the east and southeast of Trieste, ending in steep cliffs between Aurisina and Duino. Many interesting geological phenomena occur along the Karst Rim, including the picturesque Rosandra Valley (also known as Glinščica).\n\nBecause the Karst steeply descends towards the Adriatic Sea, it is less exposed to the beneficial climatological effects of the Mediterranean. In the past, the main vegetation on the plateau was oaks, but these were replaced by pine forests in the 19th and 20th centuries. Forests now cover only one-third of the Karst. Starting the Middle Ages, the plateau suffered radical deforestation for economic reasons. Although much of the wood for the closely spaced piles that support the island city of Venice, Italy came from this region, Venice carefully managed the Karst forests as a reserve for naval timber. The most radical deforestation occurred in the mid-nineteenth century due to clear-cutting by local farmers and conversion of the land into pastures for sheep.\n\nThe Karst is famous for its caves. In Slovenia, they include Vilenica Cave (the oldest show cave in Europe), Lipica Cave, Divača Cave, Kačna Cave, Postojna Cave, and Škocjan Caves (a UNESCO World Heritage Site), and Grotta Gigante in Italy (the largest show cave in the world).\n\nMost of the Karst is located in the Slovenian Littoral, covering an area of 429 square kilometres, with a population of about 19,000 people. The Karst as a whole has exactly 100 settlements. The town of Sežana is the center of the region on the Slovene side of the border. The main rural centers are the settlements of Divača, Dutovlje, and Komen. Štanjel is a picturesque clustered settlement at the top of the northern rim of the plateau; its houses are tightly clustered around Turn Hill, giving it the appearance of a medieval town. On the Italian side of the border, important settlements include Opicina, Duino, and Aurisina.\n\nNatural conditions, including the bora () wind, and the local way of life all shaped the elements of Karst architecture, creating simple but well-defined forms. One of the main tourist centers in the area is Lipica, with its stud farm (the home of the Lipizzan horse breed) as well as other tourist facilities.\n\nThe vast majority of the inhabitants of the Karst Plateau are ethnic Slovenes. Traditionally, only the village of San Martino del Carso (in the municipality of Sagrado), has been inhabited by Friulian speakers, while all the rest of the region was almost entirely Slovene-speaking from the Middle Ages till the late 1940s and 1950s, when Istrian Italians fleeing from Yugoslavia were settled in Karst villages in the Province of Trieste, especially in the municipality of Duino. As a consequence, today an estimated one fifth of the population of the Karst Plateau is Italian speaking, while the rest is mostly Slovene speaking.\n\nThe Slovenes in the region speak two closely related Slovene dialects, both belonging to the Littoral dialect group. In the southern part of the plateau (in the municipality of Divača, Hrpelje-Kozina, the southern part of the Sežana municipality, in the Italian municipality of Monrupino and in most of the Slovene-speaking areas of the municipality of Trieste), the Inner Carniolan dialect is spoken. In the northern part (the northern part of the Sežana municipality, in the Slovenian municipalities of Komen, Miren-Kostanjevica, in the Italian municipalities of Sgonico, Duino-Aurisina and Doberdò del Lago, as well in some eastern suburbs of Trieste, like Barcola), the Karst dialect is spoken.\n\nThe Karst is renowned for its strong red wine, known as teran, prosciutto and its traditional cuisine, which is a mixture of Mediterranean and Central European cuisine. The traditionally produced Karst prosciutto, a sort of dry-cured ham, is protected at the European level.\n\nProminent persons that were born or lived in this region include the poets Srečko Kosovel, Igo Gruden, Ciril Zlobec and Branka Jurca, social activist Danilo Dolci, architect Max Fabiani, painters Avgust Černigoj and Lojze Spacal, writers Alojz Rebula, Igor Torkar, and Bogomir Magajna, theologian Anton Mahnič, politicians Drago Marušič, Josip Ferfolja and Majda Širca, economist Milko Brezigar, and actress Ita Rina. The picturesque Karst landscape inspired numerous artists who were not from this region, including the poets Rainer Maria Rilke, Alojz Gradnik, and Edvard Kocbek, essayists Scipio Slataper and Marjan Rožanc, writers Italo Svevo, Fulvio Tomizza and Susanna Tamaro, and film director Jan Cvitkovič. Many artists and authors settled in the area, including Josip Osti and Taras Kermauner.\n\nThe municipalities that are completely or partially in the Karst include:\n\n\nSometimes, the region around Pivka and Postojna is also included.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2379873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2379873", "title": "Kidron Valley", "text": "Kidron Valley\n\nThe Kidron Valley (classical transliteration, \"Cedron\", from , \"Naḥal Qidron\", literally Qidron River; also Qidron Valley; , Wadi al-Joz for the upper segment near the Temple Mount, and Wadi an-Nar, 'Fire Valley', for the rest of it) is the valley on the eastern side of the Old City of Jerusalem, separating the Temple Mount from the Mount of Olives. It continues east through the Judean desert in the West Bank, towards the Dead Sea, descending along its course. The ancient Mar Saba monastery is located in the lower part of the valley.\n\nIn its upper part, the neighborhood of Wadi al-Joz bears the valley's Arabic name. The settlement Kedar, located on a ridge above the valley, is named after the valley's Hebrew name.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible calls the upper course \"Emek Yehoshafat\", the \"Valley of Josaphat\". It appears in Jewish eschatologic prophecies, which include the return of Elijah, followed by the arrival of the Messiah, and the War of Gog and Magog and Judgment Day.\nThe upper Kidron Valley holds Jerusalem's most important cemetery from the First Temple period, the Silwan necropolis, assumed to have been used by the highest-ranking officials residing in the city, with rock-cut tombs dating between the 9th and 7th centuries BCE.\n\nThe upper Kidron Valley segment north of the Old City was one of the main burial grounds of Jerusalem in the Second Temple period, where hundreds of tombs have survived until today, while the segment east of, and opposite the Temple Mount, boasts several excellently preserved monumental tombs from the same period. Several of the Second Temple period tombs were also used later in time, either as burial or as shelters for hermits and monks of the large monastic communities which inhabited the Kidron Valley during the Byzantine period (4th-7th century). The ancient tombs in this area attracted the attention of ancient travelers, most notably Benjamin of Tudela.\n\nA source of confusion is the fact that the modern name \"Kidron Valley\" (\"Nahal Kidron\" in Hebrew) applies to the entire length of a long wadi, which starts north of the Old City of Jerusalem and ends at the Dead Sea, while the biblical names \"Nahal Kidron\", \"Emek Yehoshafat\", \"King’s Valley\" etc. might refer to certain parts of this valley located in the immediate vicinity of ancient Jerusalem, but not to the entire wadi, and certainly not to the long segment crossing the Judean desert. Similarly, in Arabic every more substantial wadi has many names, each applied to a certain distinct segment of its course.\n\nThe Hebrew name Qidron is derived from the root \"qadar\", \"to be dark\", and may be meant in this context as \"dusky\".\n\nIn Christian tradition the similarity between the Greek word for cedar, κέδρος (\"kedros\"), and the Greek name of the valley as used in the Septuagint, Kedron, has led to the Qidron Valley being wrongly called \"Valley of the Cedars\".\n\nThe Hebrew Bible talks of the \"Valley of Jehoshaphat - Emek Yehoshafat\" (), meaning \"The valley where Yahweh shall judge.\" It should be noted that not all scholars agree with the traditional view that the Kidron Valley, as the valley situated between Jerusalem and the Mount of Olives to the east, is the location of the Valley of Jehoshaphat. The Kidron Valley was not associated with the Valley of Jehoshaphat until the 4th century AD, making this identification somewhat uncertain since no actual valley of this name is known to pre-Christian antiquity.\n\nBiblical commentator Adam Clarke claims that the Valley of Judgment is a symbolic place.\n\nIn the times of the Old Testament kings, the Kidron Valley was identified with, at least in part, the King's Garden; the kings owned land in the area. That the upper Kidron Valley was also known as the King's Valley, in which Absalom set up his monument or \"pillar\" (see ; no connection to the much later \"Absalom's Pillar\"), is problematic. The Bible does not make this identification explicit, and the association can only be inferred as associated with En-rogel, which is farther down the Kidron Valley towards the desert.\n\nThe name 'King’s Valley' may be derived from its location just east of the palace of David in the City of David on the western slopes of the Kidron Valley and south of where the platform was built.\n\nThe three monumental tombs on the eastern side of the Kidron Valley are among the most well-known landmarks of ancient Jerusalem. These are, from north to south, the so-called \"Tomb of Absalom\" (Hebrew: Yad Avshalom), which rises in front of the so-called \"Cave\" or \"Tomb of Jehoshaphat\", the (correctly named) Tomb of Benei Hezir (\"Benei Hezir\" is the Hebrew for \"sons of Hezir\", meaning the Hezir priestly family ), and the so-called \"Tomb of Zechariah\", which could quite likely be the \"nefesh\" of the Tomb of Benei Hezir.\n\nAbsalom's Tomb consists of two parts. First, a lower cube hewn out of the bedrock, decorated with engaged Ionic columns bearing a Doric frieze and crowned by an Egyptian cornice. This part of the monument contains a small chamber with an entrance and two arcosolia (arched funeral niches) and constitutes the actual tomb. The second part, built of ashlars, is placed on top of the rock-hewn cube. It consists of a square pedestal carrying a round drum, itself topped by a conical roof. The cone is slightly concave and is crowned by an Egyptian-style lotus flower. The upper part has the general shape of a \"tholos\" and is interpreted as a \"nefesh\" or monument for the tomb below, and possibly also for the adjacent \"Cave of Jehoshaphat\". The \"Pillar of Absalom\" is dated to the 1st century CE.\n\nLiterally, the word \"nefesh\" means 'soul', but in a funerary context it is the term applied to a form of funerary monument. In descriptions of the tombs of the Jewish nobility, the pyramid shape is also emphasized as the mark of a tomb. This would imply that \"nefesh\" and pyramid were synonymous. The Jewish tombs in the Kidron Valley are the best examples of this form of \"nefesh\". They appear as a rectangular, pyramid-capped monument. Similar forms of the nefesh decorate ossuaries, with the addition of a dome-capped column. In Jerusalem the \"nefesh\" as a tomb monument stood either above or beside the tomb; set on steps or on a base.\n\nIt was in this valley where King Jehoshaphat is thought to have overthrown the enemies of Israel ().\n\nKing David fled through the Kidron Valley during the rebellion of Absalom ().\n\nChapters 29, 30 and 31 of 2 Chronicles () cover King Hezekiah's call for the sanctification of the ministers of the Lord, the purification of unclean things, an invitation to all Israel and Judah to celebrate Passover in Jerusalem, and liturgical reforms. During the reforms of King Hezekiah around 700 BCE, as part of the ritual cleaning of the Temple, the priests removed the unclean items from the inner part of the Temple to the courts, and the Levites carried the unclean items to Wadi Kidron ().\n\nThe Book of Joel mentions that God will assemble all nations in the \"Valley of Jehoshaphat\" (, ).\n\nAccording to the New Testament, Jesus crossed the valley many times travelling between Jerusalem and Bethany. The valley contains the Garden of Gethsemane, where Jesus prayed the night before he was executed.\n\nThe Akeldma Tombs were discovered in 1989 at theconfluence of the Kidron and Hinnom Valleys, south of Jerusalem's Old City, and were excavated and published by archaeologists Gideon Avni and Zvi Greenhut. In 1989, the Jerusalem Municipality conducted routine development work in the area. Upon widening a narrow street near one of the approaches to the Silwan village, bulldozers uncovered a number of square openings hewn into rock. The Israel Antiquities Authority immediately stopped the road construction. After uncovering the underground spaces, archaeologists found themselves standing inside large burial complexes which appeared intact. Moving carefully from one chamber to another, flashlights revealed an abundance of artifacts scattered on the floors, pottery and glass vessels, oil lamps and many ornamental ossuaries. The three large caves proved to be part of an extensive Jewish burial ground in use at the end of the Second Temple period, which terminated in the year 70 AD, when Jerusalem was conquered and the Temple destroyed by the Roman legions.\n\nAs of 2010, there is a controversial proposal to reconstruct part of the valley at Wadi Hilweh, a Palestinian neighborhood of Silwan in East Jerusalem, and turn it into a park to be called the Garden of the King.\n\nA road crossing the very steep valley of Wadi an-Nar and connecting Palestinian towns has been substantially upgraded as part of the USAID effort to modernise the Palestinian infrastructure. An existing road has been widened and re-paved, and efforts were made to improve the route it takes.\n\n"}
{"id": "255979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255979", "title": "Lianjiang County", "text": "Lianjiang County\n\nLianjiang (; BUC: Lièng-gŏng) is a suburban county of Fuzhou on the eastern coast of Fujian province, People's Republic of China. Most of the county is controlled by the People's Republic of China (PRC), while a number of outlying islands, collectively referred to as the Matsu Islands, are administered as a separate Lienchiang County (same Chinese name but in Wade–Giles Romanization) by the Republic of China (ROC), based in Taiwan since 1949. As a result, the county has two governments governing separate jurisdictions.\n\nSee Matsu Islands for a description of ROC-governed Lienchiang County.\n\nPRC jurisdiction:\n\nThe PRC governs 14 towns:\n\n\nThese townships are divided into 266 villages.\n\nLianjiang, in 282, during the Jin Dynasty, was Wenma, named after a shipyard there, Wensha Ship-hamlet (溫麻船屯). It was incorporated into Min Prefecture (閩縣) in 607, during the Sui Dynasty.\n\nWenma was changed to the present name and made its own county during in 623, during the Tang Dynasty, when Baisha (白沙) or Fusha (伏沙) of Aojiang was the capital of Lianjiang County. The capital was changed to Fengcheng as today in 742.\n\nAfter the Republic of China was established, Lianjiang switched back and forth numerous times between two special regions:\n\nIn 1949, the county was split in two due to the Chinese Civil War, as it remains today.\n\nBeginning on 1 July 1983, the PRC side reverted control to Fuzhou Municipality.\n\nResidents of Lianjiang, both mainland and Matsu speak Lianjiang dialect, a subdialect of Fuzhou dialect, a branch of Eastern Min. The dialect is also known as Bàng-uâ (平話).\n\nThe Lianjiang dialect is a subdialect of Fuzhou dialect (the most prestigious dialect of Min Dong or Eastern Min). The Lianjiang dialect is mutually intelligible with Fuzhou dialect. It differs from Fuzhou dialect in its tonal sandhi pattern and vowel sandhi system. Small lexical differences also exist on object names, e.g. waxmelon is called \"卷瓜\" /kuoŋ˨ŋua˦/ in Fuzhou but \"冬瓜\" /tøyŋ˦ŋua˦/in Lianjiang.\n\nGenerally speaking, the tonal sandhi system of Lianjiang is more conservative than that of Fuzhou, in that the Lianjiang tonal sandhi is still largely controlled by the Middle Chinese tonal registers, while the Fuzhou tonal sandhi shows more deviation and irregularity.\n\nLianjiang vowel sandhi is more complicated than that of Fuzhou. Both Lianjiang and Fuzhou have systematic vowel variations between citation forms and non-final forms of the same morpheme, e.g. \"地\"/tei/ \"land\" - \"地主\"/ti-tsuo/ \"landlord\". However, not all morphemes have such variations. Only the morphemes with low-starting tones show such variation. The morphemes with high-starting tones instead only have the more close variant, e.g. \"迟\"/ti/ \"late\"- \"迟早\" /ti tsia/ \"early or late\". However, some cognates are produced with different vowels in Lianjiang and Fuzhou, e.g. \"江 river\" is produced as /kyeŋ/ in Lianjiang, but /kouŋ/ in Fuzhou. Also, the rimes in Lianjiang are generally more close and front than that in Fuzhou, which is especially salient in the open vowels, e.g. \"下 down\" is [ɑ] in Fuzhou, but [a] in Lianjiang.\n\nSurrounded by mountains, Lianjiang used to be a relatively isolated from the inland part of China for centuries. This explains why the Lianjiang phonological system is relatively more conservative. However, with the construction of the high-speed railway system and the improvement of tunnel system, northern migrants are flooding into Lianjiang in the past decade, which may bring language contact into perspective. Just like in Fuzhou, most young or middle-aged Lianjiang speakers speak Standard Chinese fluently, but usually with a local accent influenced by the local dialect. However, due to the misleading language policy (Not speaking Standard Chinese is taken as \"immoral\".) and disadvantageous status of the dialect, both Fuzhou and Lianjiang dialects are losing speakers in the youngest generation. More and more young people and children are only receptive bilinguals in Lianjiang.\n\nFood products:\n\nLuochang Express Way runs through the county\n104 national Highway in . navigable river length.\n\nGuantou and Kemen (可門) are the largest seaports in Lianjiang with national access.\n\nThere are hot springs in Gui'an (貴安) and Tanghui (湯尾) of Pandu. There is a Dragon King Palace-Temple (龍宮廟) in the Xiaocang She Nationality Rural Township.\n\n"}
{"id": "15760449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15760449", "title": "List of Goodnight Sweetheart episodes", "text": "List of Goodnight Sweetheart episodes\n\nThe following is a complete list of episodes for the British sitcom \"Goodnight Sweetheart\". The programme premiered on BBC1 on 18 November 1993, and originally ran for six series; which concluded on 28 June 1999. However, a one-off special episode aired on 2 September 2016, on BBC One.\n\nThe show was written and created by Laurence Marks and Maurice Gran, who wrote the complete first series of the show, after which they only wrote some episodes, along with a team of writers. The creators also wrote the final episode of the show, where Gary Sparrow finds he is trapped in 1945 with Phoebe. In an interview, the pair commented that Gary couldn't always have his cake and eat it.\n\n"}
{"id": "11096696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11096696", "title": "List of Superfund sites in the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "List of Superfund sites in the Northern Mariana Islands\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in the Northern Mariana Islands designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25366085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25366085", "title": "List of bays of the United States", "text": "List of bays of the United States\n\nThis is a list of bays in the United States.\n\nSee also \n\n\n\n\nPotato bay\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10940685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10940685", "title": "List of birds of Palau", "text": "List of birds of Palau\n\nThis is a list of the bird species recorded in Palau. The avifauna of Palau include a total of 149 species, of which ten are endemic, three have been introduced by humans and seventeen are rare or accidental. Three species are globally threatened.\n\nThis list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of \"The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World\", 6th edition. The family accounts at the beginning of each heading reflect this taxonomy, as do the species counts found in each family account. Introduced and accidental species are included in the total counts for Palau.\n\nThe following tags have been used to highlight several categories. The commonly occurring native species do not fall into any of these categories.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThe procellariids are the main group of medium-sized \"true petrels\", characterised by united nostrils with medium septum and a long outer functional primary.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Hydrobatidae\n\nThe northern storm petrels are relatives of the petrels and are the smallest seabirds. They feed on planktonic crustaceans and small fish picked from the surface, typically while hovering. The flight is fluttering and sometimes bat-like.\n\n\nOrder: PhaethontiformesFamily: Phaethontidae\n\nTropicbirds are slender white birds of tropical oceans, with exceptionally long central tail feathers. Their heads and long wings have black markings.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Sulidae\n\nThe sulids comprise the gannets and boobies. Both groups are medium to large coastal seabirds that plunge-dive for fish.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Phalacrocoracidae\n\nPhalacrocoracidae is a family of medium to large coastal, fish-eating seabirds that includes cormorants and shags. Plumage colouration varies, with the majority having mainly dark plumage, some species being black-and-white and a few being colourful.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nFrigatebirds are large seabirds usually found over tropical oceans. They are large, black and white or completely black, with long wings and deeply forked tails. The males have coloured inflatable throat pouches. They do not swim or walk and cannot take off from a flat surface. Having the largest wingspan-to-body-weight ratio of any bird, they are essentially aerial, able to stay aloft for more than a week.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Pelecanidae\n\nPelicans are large water birds with a distinctive pouch under their beak. As with other members of the order Pelecaniformes, they have webbed feet with four toes.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nThe family Ardeidae contains the bitterns, herons and egrets. Herons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter necked and more wary. Members of Ardeidae fly with their necks retracted, unlike other long-necked birds such as storks, ibises and spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae\n\nAnatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Pandionidae\n\nThe family Pandionidae contains only one species, the osprey. The osprey is a medium-large raptor which is a specialist fish-eater with a worldwide distribution.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Accipitridae\n\nAccipitridae is a family of birds of prey, which includes hawks, eagles, kites, harriers and Old World vultures. These birds have powerful hooked beaks for tearing flesh from their prey, strong legs, powerful talons and keen eyesight.\n\n\nOrder: FalconiformesFamily: Falconidae\n\nFalconidae is a family of diurnal birds of prey. They differ from hawks, eagles and kites in that they kill with their beaks instead of their talons.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Megapodiidae\n\nThe Megapodiidae are stocky, medium-large chicken-like birds with small heads and large feet. All but the malleefowl occupy jungle habitats and most have brown or black colouring.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae\n\nThe Phasianidae are a family of terrestrial birds which consists of quails, partridges, snowcocks, francolins, spurfowls, tragopans, monals, pheasants, peafowls and jungle fowls. In general, they are plump (although they vary in size) and have broad, relatively short wings.\n\n\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Rallidae\n\nRallidae is a large family of small to medium-sized birds which includes the rails, crakes, coots and gallinules. Typically they inhabit dense vegetation in damp environments near lakes, swamps or rivers. In general they are shy and secretive birds, making them difficult to observe. Most species have strong legs and long toes which are well adapted to soft uneven surfaces. They tend to have short, rounded wings and to be weak fliers.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Recurvirostridae\n\nRecurvirostridae is a family of large wading birds, which includes the avocets and stilts. The avocets have long legs and long up-curved bills. The stilts have extremely long legs and long, thin, straight bills.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Glareolidae\n\nGlareolidae is a family of wading birds comprising the pratincoles, which have short legs, long pointed wings and long forked tails, and the coursers, which have long legs, short wings and long pointed bills which curve downwards.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nThe family Charadriidae includes the plovers, dotterels and lapwings. They are small to medium-sized birds with compact bodies, short, thick necks and long, usually pointed, wings. They are found in open country worldwide, mostly in habitats near water.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nScolopacidae is a large diverse family of small to medium-sized shorebirds including the sandpipers, curlews, godwits, shanks, tattlers, woodcocks, snipes, dowitchers and phalaropes. The majority of these species eat small invertebrates picked out of the mud or soil. Variation in length of legs and bills enables multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Stercorariidae\n\nThe family Stercorariidae are, in general, medium to large birds, typically with grey or brown plumage, often with white markings on the wings. They nest on the ground in temperate and arctic regions and are long-distance migrants.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\n\nLaridae is a family of medium to large seabirds, the gulls, terns, and skimmers. Gulls are typically grey or white, often with black markings on the head or wings. They have stout, longish bills and webbed feet. Terns are a group of generally medium to large seabirds typically with grey or white plumage, often with black markings on the head. Most terns hunt fish by diving but some pick insects off the surface of fresh water. Terns are generally long-lived birds, with several species known to live in excess of 30 years.\n\n\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.\n\n\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Cacatuidae\n\nThe cockatoos share many features with other parrots including the characteristic curved beak shape and a zygodactyl foot, with two forward toes and two backwards toes. They differ, however in a number of characteristics, including the often spectacular movable headcrest. .\n\n\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittaculidae\n\n\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nThe family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails and strong legs. The Old World cuckoos are brood parasites.\n\n\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Strigidae\n\nThe typical owls are small to large solitary nocturnal birds of prey. They have large forward-facing eyes and ears, a hawk-like beak and a conspicuous circle of feathers around each eye called a facial disk.\n\n\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Caprimulgidae\n\nNightjars are medium-sized nocturnal birds that usually nest on the ground. They have long wings, short legs and very short bills. Most have small feet, of little use for walking, and long pointed wings. Their soft plumage is camouflaged to resemble bark or leaves.\n\n\nOrder: ApodiformesFamily: Apodidae\n\nSwifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. Many swifts have long swept-back wings which resemble a crescent or boomerang.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae\n\nKingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long pointed bills, short legs and stubby tails.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Meropidae\n\nThe bee-eaters are a group of near passerine birds in the family Meropidae. Most species are found in Africa but others occur in southern Europe, Madagascar, Australia and New Guinea. They are characterised by richly coloured plumage, slender bodies and usually elongated central tail feathers. All are colourful and have long downturned bills and pointed wings, which give them a swallow-like appearance when seen from afar.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Coraciidae\n\nRollers resemble crows in size and build, but are more closely related to the kingfishers and bee-eaters. They share the colourful appearance of those groups with blues and browns predominating. The two inner front toes are connected, but the outer toe is not.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Hirundinidae\n\nThe family Hirundinidae is adapted to aerial feeding. They have a slender streamlined body, long pointed wings and a short bill with a wide gape. The feet are adapted to perching rather than walking, and the front toes are partially joined at the base.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Motacillidae\n\nMotacillidae is a family of small passerine birds with medium to long tails. They include the wagtails, longclaws and pipits. They are slender, ground feeding insectivores of open country.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Campephagidae\n\nThe cuckooshrikes are small to medium-sized passerine birds. They are predominantly greyish with white and black, although some species are brightly coloured.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Turdidae\n\nThe thrushes are a group of passerine birds that occur mainly in the Old World. They are plump, soft plumaged, small to medium-sized insectivores or sometimes omnivores, often feeding on the ground. Many have attractive songs.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cettiidae\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Locustellidae\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Muscicapidae\n\nOld World flycatchers are a large group of small passerine birds native to the Old World. They are mainly small arboreal insectivores. The appearance of these birds is highly varied, but they mostly have weak songs and harsh calls.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Rhipiduridae\n\nThe fantails are small insectivorous birds which are specialist aerial feeders.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Monarchidae\n\nThe monarch flycatchers are small to medium-sized insectivorous passerines which hunt by flycatching.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Pachycephalidae\n\nThe family Pachycephalidae includes the whistlers, shrike-thrushes, shrike-tits, pitohuis and crested bellbird.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Zosteropidae\n\nThe white-eyes are small and mostly undistinguished, their plumage above being generally some dull colour like greenish-olive, but some species have a white or bright yellow throat, breast or lower parts, and several have buff flanks. As their name suggests, many species have a white ring around each eye.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Meliphagidae\n\nThe honeyeaters are a large and diverse family of small to medium-sized birds most common in Australia and New Guinea. They are nectar feeders and closely resemble other nectar-feeding passerines.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Laniidae\n\nShrikes are passerine birds known for their habit of catching other birds and small animals and impaling the uneaten portions of their bodies on thorns. A typical shrike's beak is hooked, like a bird of prey.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Artamidae\n\nThe woodswallows are soft-plumaged, somber-coloured passerine birds. They are smooth, agile flyers with moderately large, semi-triangular wings.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Sturnidae\n\nStarlings are small to medium-sized passerine birds. Their flight is strong and direct and they are very gregarious. Their preferred habitat is fairly open country. They eat insects and fruit. Plumage is typically dark with a metallic sheen.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Estrildidae\n\nThe estrildid finches are small passerine birds of the Old World tropics and Australasia. They are gregarious and often colonial seed eaters with short thick but pointed bills. They are all similar in structure and habits, but have wide variation in plumage colours and patterns.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Emberizidae\n\nThe emberizids are a large family of passerine birds. They are seed-eating birds with distinctively shaped bills. In Europe, most species are called buntings. In North America, most of the species in this family are known as sparrows, but these birds are not closely related to the Old World sparrows which are in the family Passeridae. Many emberizid species have distinctive head patterns.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Passeridae\n\nSparrows are small passerine birds. In general, sparrows tend to be small, plump, brown or grey birds with short tails and short powerful beaks. Sparrows are seed eaters, but they also consume small insects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6809863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6809863", "title": "List of columns and towers in Istanbul", "text": "List of columns and towers in Istanbul\n\nThe following is a list of columns and towers located in İstanbul, Turkey:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1039529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039529", "title": "List of dialling codes in Italy", "text": "List of dialling codes in Italy\n\nCountry Code: +39\nInternational Call Prefix: 00\nTrunk Prefix: None. Leading 0 is dialed both within and from outside Italy, just because it is now part of the actual number and no longer the trunk prefix.\n\nArea codes in Italy are administered by Telecom Italia:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7213073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7213073", "title": "List of meteorology institutions", "text": "List of meteorology institutions\n\nThe following is a list of meteorology institutions around the world:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20417967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20417967", "title": "List of mountain peaks of the Caribbean", "text": "List of mountain peaks of the Caribbean\n\nThis article comprises three sortable tables of major mountain peaks of the islands of the Caribbean Sea.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nOf the 20 highest major summits of the Caribbean, only Pico Duarte exceeds elevation, six peaks exceed , and 15 peaks exceed elevation.\n\nOf these 20 peaks, three are located in the Dominican Republic, three in Cuba, two in Haiti, two in Saint Kitts and Nevis, one each in Jamaica, Guadeloupe, Dominica, Martinique, Puerto Rico, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saint Lucia, Trinidad and Tobago, Montserrat, and Venezuela.\n\nOf the 20 most prominent summits of the Caribbean, only Pico Duarte exceeds of topographic prominence. Four peaks exceed , seven peaks are ultra-prominent summits with at least, and 13 peaks exceed of topographic prominence.\n\nOf these 20 peaks, three are located in the Dominican Republic, two in Haiti, two in Saint Kitts and Nevis, and one each in Jamaica, Cuba, Guadeloupe, Dominica, Martinique, Puerto Rico, Saint Lucia, Trinidad and Tobago, Montserrat, Venezuela, Saba, and Grenada.\n\nOf the 20 most isolated major summits of the Caribbean, Pico Duarte and La Grande Soufrière exceed of topographic isolation, seven peaks exceed , and 14 peaks exceed of topographic isolation.\n\nOf these 20 peaks, three are located in Cuba, two in the Dominican Republic, two in Haiti, two in Trinidad and Tobago, and one each in Guadeloupe, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Granada, the British Virgin Islands, Martinique, Dominica, Montserrat, and Saint Lucia.\n\n"}
{"id": "576696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=576696", "title": "List of people granted honorary French citizenship during the French Revolution", "text": "List of people granted honorary French citizenship during the French Revolution\n\nIn French honorary citizenship is awarded by cities, towns and sometimes federal states.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, France granted honorary French citizenship to those deemed champions of the cause. However, not all were sympathizers with the Revolution. One (Cloots) died on the guillotine.\n\n"}
{"id": "39130007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39130007", "title": "List of ports of call of the British East India Company", "text": "List of ports of call of the British East India Company\n\nThe East Indiamen of the British East India Company (EIC) passed many places and stopped at many ports on their voyages from Britain to India and China in the 17th to 19th centuries, both on the way and as destinations. Some of these places were simply landmarks, but a number of the places were the locations of EIC factories, i.e., trading posts.\n\nIn many cases the spelling of the names of these locations has changed between then and now. One purpose of this list is to link, where possible, the names as given in ships' logs with the modern name. Names in \"italics\" represent cases where the modern and older name are different.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nList of Dutch East India Company trading posts and settlements\n\n"}
{"id": "660234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660234", "title": "Miramichi", "text": "Miramichi\n\nThe name \"Miramichi\" was first applied to a region in the northeast of New Brunswick, Canada, and has since been applied to other places in Canada and the United States. Although other interpretations have been suggested, it is believed that \"Miramichi\" was derived from the Montagnais words \"Maissimeu Assi\" (meaning Mi'kmaq Land), and was perhaps introduced for use in European languages by Jacques Cartier in 1535.\n\nMiramichi is used in the names of many places, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19489189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19489189", "title": "Mount Heha", "text": "Mount Heha\n\nMount Heha is the highest mountain in Burundi and the highest point in the Burundi Highlands mountain range. It is located in the Bujumbura Rural province of Burundi and it lies approximately 20 km to the east of Lake Tanganyika and about 30 km to the southeast of Bujumbura, the capital of Burundi.\n\n"}
{"id": "4035717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4035717", "title": "Musgrave Block", "text": "Musgrave Block\n\nThe Musgrave Block (also known as the Musgrave Province) is an east-west trending belt of Proterozoic granulite-gneiss basement rocks approximately long. The Musgrave Block extends from western South Australia into Western Australia.\n\nThe Musgrave Block is primarily exposed through the actions of the Petermann Orogeny at c. 535-550 Ma, which exhumed the orogenic belt along the Woodroffe Thrust.\n\nThe Musgrave Block is currently passive geologically, with surficial processes described as residual erosion. The area currently experiences on average less than 150mm (6 inches) of rainfall per annum, which provides little surface runoff and hence virtually no erosion. \n\nThe landforms of the area are primarily composed of wide calcrete plains, often covered by Pleistocene Age aeolian deposits of sand dunes, sometimes reworked into ephemeral sheetwash fans. Outcrop is rare, restricted primarily to the igneous rocks of the Giles Complex and several granite domes, gneiss domes and isolated outcrops.\n\nThis area is also a distinct physiographic province of the larger West Australian Shield.\n\nSeveral Palaeozoic to neoproterozoic sedimentary basins onlap the Musgrave Block, and are exposed mostly around its edges. These were derived from erosion of the Musgrave Block basement during the neoproterozoic to Permian.\n\nThe Proterozoic of the Musgrave Block is composed of seven main classes of rocks;\n\nThe Musgrave Block is flanked by several Proterozoic to Palaeozoic sedimentary basins, whose sedimentary history can elucidate the timing of tectonic events in the Musgrave Block post-1080 Ma. These include the Proterozoic Amadeus and Officer Basins.\n\nThe most illustrating way of considering the Musgrave Block is as part of a time-space plot in which geological events are arrayed in time against rock units, stratigraphic relationships and for correlative purposes. \n\nThe key events in the Musgrave Block are;\n\nThere are three main phases of granite intrusion into the Musgrave Block;\n\nThe Kulgera Suite is a widespread, voluminous suite of fractionated amphibole-bearing plagioclase rich tonalite to granodiorites of an I-type affinity (Stewart, 2003). They are dated at ~1200 Ma and are considered to be related to melting of the lower crust during the ~1200 Ma Musgravian Orogeny. \nThe Windburn Suite is considered to be an anorogenic A-type granite suite produced by anatexis of the lower crust at ~1080 to 1050 Ma by the injection of the mafic Giles Complex intrusions. They are in most cases poorly fractionated, biotite-muscovite granites, with little hornblende, a high radiometric count and the presence of fluorine. The 1080 Ma granites and 1050 Ma granites can be distinguished on geochemical grounds, the latter is perhaps created by th above process, and the earlier suite a hybrid between A-type and I-type granites formed by assimilation and mixing. \n\nThere are also significant granite caldera complexes, of many hundred square kilometres in area, which intrude the Musgrave Block. These are of the ~1050 Ma age, and are subvolcanic, possibly related to some of the ~1050 Ma volcanic rocks.\n\nThe Palgrave Palgrave Volcanic Association is a large volcanic and granite caldera edifice of about 1500 square kilometres sandwiched between the Jameson Range Intrusion and the gneisses underlying the Bentley Supergroup volcanics. \n\nThe caldera is in two parts, an overlying volcanic edifice composed primarily of porphyritic rhyolite and dacite with occasional vent complex agglomerates, which shows prominent circular ring-complex faults, and the Winburn Granite which underlies the caldera and is primarily exposed in the east as a pink, potassium-feldspathic porphyry granite, the lower margins of which are weakly tectonised.\n\nThe whole caldera edifice is tilted to the southwest, which is why the Winburn Granite is exposed along the east and northeast.\n\nThe Skirmish Hill Caldera is poorly exposed along the southern margin of the Musgrave Block and consists of granite and overlying? rhyolite. It has been traditionally seen as a potential source for the Tollu Volcanics.\n\nThe caldera is truncated on the north by a north-dipping thrust fault and is probably tilted to the south.\n\nSeveral other prominent gravity and magnetic highs are arranged along the Mugrave Block strike line, one of which was drilled by BHP in the 1990s through 300m of Permian glacial sediments. \n\nThis caldera is composed of highly tectonised, stretched felsic volcanic rocks, interleaved with a significant thickness of equally sheared titaniferous differentiated mafic sills. The best interpretation of this, and probably also of the Palgrave Caldera is that they represent hot spots along the Musgrave Block where significant magma flux penetrated, formed volcanic calderas with large subvolcanic granite intrusions, and associated mafic volcanism. \n\nThe relationship of the large granite calderas to the 1050-1080 Ma volcanics has been postulated as one in which the granite calderas were the source for the intermediate and felsic volcanic rocks.\n\nThe Bentley Supergroup Volcanics are a sequence of bimodal supracrustal volcanic rocks formed during the ~1080 Warakurna Large Igneous Province, and are widely considered comagmatic with the mafic to ultramafic Giles Complex intrusions. \n\nThe Bentley Supergroup is composed primarily of bimodal volcanism, with several hundred-metres thicknesses each of alternating rhyolite and basaltic volcanism adding up to several kilometres true thickness in the area of the Warburton Range to the southwest of the Palgrave caldera. The Bentley Supergroup is divided into the Cassidy Group, Pussycat Group and Tollu Group. \n\nThe prevailing theory of the formation of the Bentley Supergroup is that the Warakurna Large Igneous Province, primarily represented by the Giles Complex intruding into the lower crust, breached the crust and erupted voluminous basaltic lava flows, and when enough heat had been added to the crust by the massive intrusions below, intracrustal felsic and intermediate melts were produced, forming A-type intracontinental granites of the Winburn Suite, and the felsic volcanic rocks. \n\nThis created the typical bimodal volcanic signature of the Cassidy Group and Pussycat Groups; the Tollu Group is a bit different, and it is considered the product of the large granite calderas which were formed immediately after the Giles Complex mamatism.\nGiles (1980) and earlier mappers have assigned the MacDougall Formation, overlying Mummawarrawarra Basalt, intermediate Smoke Hill Volcanics and the Tollu Volcanics to the Bentley Supergroup. \n\nThere has been little real study done on the Bentley Supergroup Volcanics since the 1960s. Geochemical and petrological observations are few and far between or lacking comprehensive rare earth and trace elements suites. The Bentley Supergoup is poorly exposed in South Australia (if at all).\n\n"}
{"id": "36197340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36197340", "title": "Name of Galicia", "text": "Name of Galicia\n\nThe name of Galicia, a nation on the Iberian Peninsula that is currently a part of Spain, derives from the Latin toponym Callaecia, later \"Gallaecia\", related to the name of an ancient tribe that resided north of the Douro river, the Gallaeci or Callaeci in Latin, or \"Kallaikói\" (καλλαικoι) in Greek.\n\nThe etymology of the name has been studied since the 7th century. The earliest known attempt at this was due to Isidore of Seville, who related the name of the Galicians and of the Gauls to the Greek word γάλα, \"milk\", 'they are called Galicians because of their fair skin, as the Gauls. For they are fairer than the rest of the peoples of Spain.' Currently, scholars relate the name of the ancient Callaeci either to the Proto-Indo-European *kal-n-eH 'hill', derived through a local relational suffix -aik-, so meaning 'the hill (people)'; or either to Proto-Celtic *kallī- 'forest', so meaning 'the forest (people)'. Anyway, \"Galicia\", being \"per se\" a derivation of the ethnic name \"Callaicoi\", would mean the \"land of the Galicians\".\n\nThe \"Callaeci\" were the first tribe in the area to help the Lusitanians against the invading Romans, and gave their name to the rest of the tribes living north of them, and to their victor, Decimus Junius Brutus Callaicus, who defeated them in 137 BC and was acclaimed in Rome.\n\nFrom the beginning of the Christian era, after the campaigns of Augustus had brought all of Hispania under Roman control, the lands of Gallaecia—including Galicia and northern Portugal to the Douro river—were organized into two \"conventi iuridici\", Bracarense and Lucense, belonging to the province Tarraconensis. During the last years of the 3rd century during Diocletian's reforms these two convents, together with the Asturicense, and maybe also the Cluniacense, were organized in a single presidential province, Gallaecia, later promoted to consular status in the 4th century, with the city of Bracara Augusta its capital.\n\nIn 411 the Suevi, a Germanic people, settled in Gallaecia, establishing a kingdom which maintained its independence till 585, when it was annexed by the Visigoths of Spain. During these two centuries \"Gallaecia\" and its evolved form \"Gallicia\" became the name associated with the kingdom of the Suevi and with its territory, which included current Galicia, much of northern Portugal as far as Coimbra and Idanha-a-Velha, much of the Spanish provinces of Asturias, León, and Zamora, and parts of Salamanca. \n\nIn 666 the southern extreme of the province, beyond the Douro, was formally reincorporated into Lusitania, but the destruction of the Visigothic kingdom in 711 by the Arabs, and the early reconquest of Coimbra by Galician forces in 866 led to the name \"Gallicia\" being applied not just to the westernmost areas north of the Douro, but also to much of the north-west of the Iberian peninsula, from the Bay of Biscay to Coimbra, and from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Eo, Navia and Cea rivers in the east, including the city of León. So, from that time and to the twelfth century the name Galicia maintained some kind of duality, which is exactly symbolised by the Arab geographers and historians, who gave the name \"Ŷillīquiya\" (adaptation of Gallaecia) to the Christian kingdom of the northwest and to the lands north and west of the Sistema Central mountains, now known as Kingdom of Asturias and Kingdom of León, whilst the term \"Galīsiya\" (adaptation of Galicia) was more usually reserved for Galicia and Portugal, although both terms were used interchangeably. On the other hand, \"Gallaecia\" or an evolved form of it was a common name used by other Europeans to refer in general to the Christians of the northwest of Hispania and to their kingdom. But from the 11th-12th century the independence of Portugal in the south, and the prominence of the city of León in the east as capital of the Christians, led to the restriction of the name \"Galicia\" to roughly its actual territorial boundaries. \n\nDuring the 13th century, with the written emergence of the Galician language, \"Galiza\" became the most usual written form of the name of the country, being replaced during the 15th and 16th centuries by the current form, \"Galicia\", which coincides with the Castilian Spanish name. The historical denomination \"Galiza\" became popular again during the end of the 19th and the first three quarters of the 20th century, and it is still used with some frequency by among others the Galician reintegrationists. Nevertheless, this alternative is now seldom used by the Xunta de Galicia, the local devolved government. Besides, the Royal Galician Academy, the institution responsible for regulating the Galician language, whilst recognizing it as a legitimate current denomination has stated that the only official name of the country is \"Galicia\".\n"}
{"id": "437516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437516", "title": "Narrows", "text": "Narrows\n\nA narrows is a restricted land or water passage. Most commonly a narrows is a strait, though it can also be a water gap.\n\nA narrows may form where a stream passes through a tilted bed of hard rock lying between two softer beds: \"[i]f the hard beds are vertical, so that their outcrop does not shift as erosion proceeds, a narrows is developed\". Like a dam, this \"raises the water level for a short distance upriver\". A narrows is also typically a good location for trapping migrating fish. Furthermore, a narrows is \"an important topographical feature for wind mixing\", an effect where a wind chill may form ice while the surrounding temperature remains above freezing.\n\n"}
{"id": "53725158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53725158", "title": "North Madagascar Current", "text": "North Madagascar Current\n\nThe North Madagascar Current is an Ocean current near Madagascar. The Madagascar current is split into two current the North Madagascar Current and the East Madagascar Current (EMC). The North Madagascar Current (NMC) flows into the South Equatorial Current just North of Madagascar and is directed into the Mozambique Channel, this connects to the gyre’s equatorial currents into the Agulhas Current off the coast of Southeastern Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "19218099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19218099", "title": "Numbered street", "text": "Numbered street\n\nA numbered street is a street whose name is an ordinal number, as in \"Second Street\" or \"Tenth Avenue\". Such forms are among the most common street names in North America, but also exist in other parts of the world, especially in the Middle East. Numbered streets were first used in Philadelphia and now exist in many major cities and small towns. Grid-based naming systems usually start at 1 (but sometimes at a higher number or even at zero), and then proceed in numerical order. In the United States, seven out of the top ten most common street names are numbers, with the top three names being \"2nd,\" \"3rd,\" and \"1st\" respectively.\n\nSome cities also have \"lettered\" street names. For example, Washington, D.C., in addition to having numbered streets, also has streets identified as a letter followed by \"Street,\" going as high as the letter W. New York City (mostly in Brooklyn) has avenues titled \"Avenue\" followed by the respective letter of the alphabet, such as Avenue D. The idea for such a system was developed by Pierre Charles L’Enfant, who devised the system for Washington.\n\nThe numbered street system is criticized for taking away the individuality from a community that a named street would provide.\n\nThe city of Baltimore, Maryland, has numbered streets in the north-central part of the city. The numbered streets in Baltimore do not begin with 1, but rather start with 20th Street just north of and parallel to North Avenue, the former northern boundary of the city, and what is viewed by many today is the northern boundary of Downtown Baltimore. The numbered streets, which go as high as 43rd Street, correspond with the first two digits in the addresses of the north–south streets they cross. Unlike in Washington, where the numbered streets run north–south, Baltimore's numbered streets run west–east. All begin their names with either \"West\" or \"East,\" depending on which side of Charles Street the block is located.\n\nSome of Baltimore's numbered streets are well known for various reasons. 28th and 29th streets, a one-way pair, are the only numbered streets to have an interchange with I-83. They use the numbered designations to the east of the expressway, and to the west, they merge into a six-lane road known as Druid Park Lake Drive. East 33rd Street was the location of the now-demolished Memorial Stadium, home to the Baltimore Orioles for 38 years and the Baltimore Colts for 31. West 34th Street is the location of the annual Miracle on 34th Street, where residents on one block of the street open their porches to tourists to view their holiday decorations. West 40th Street is the location of The Rotunda shopping mall, and it merges into West 41st Street, which crosses over (but does not have an interchange with) I-83 into Television Hill and is the only numbered street in the city west of I-83.\n\nThe City of Chicago is set on a grid with eight \"standard\" city blocks per mile. Some blocks are further divided in half. A standard block has 100 address numbers, meaning there are 800 numbers per mile. Chicago address numbering begins downtown at State Street and Madison Street; State Street is 0 east and west, and Madison Street is 0 north and south. Major streets a mile apart have address numbers that, for the most part, are multiples of 800.\n\nThe south side of the city uses numbered east–west streets, although older streets that were already named retained their names, particularly in the Loop. As stated above, Chicago house numbers are generally assigned at the rate of 8 blocks to a mile. The only exceptions are from Madison to 31st Street, just south of downtown.\n\nThe first two main numbered roads in the system were renamed for historical figures after the numbering system was adapted. Roosevelt Road (previously 12th Street and renamed for Theodore Roosevelt) is one mile south of Madison with 12 blocks to the mile, Cermak Road (previously 22nd Street and renamed in memory of assassinated mayor Anton Cermak) is two miles south of Madison with 10 blocks to the mile, and 31st Street (3100 S) is three miles south of Madison with 9 blocks to the mile. South of 31st Street, the pattern of 8 blocks to the mile resumes, with 39th Street the next major street, 47th after that, and so on.\n\nThe numbering within Chicago is continued throughout many suburbs south of the city proper. For instance, Chicago Heights has a 185th Street, set on the same numbering schema.\n\nChicago's numbered street system was adopted in 1911 as a result of new legislation. Madison Street was made the base for all street numbering, and State Street for north–south streets.\n\nAs a general rule, the only numbered streets in Cleveland run—generally—north–south, while streets that run parallel to the lake shore (generally east–west) have names rather than numbers. Ontario Street in downtown Cleveland separates east- and west-numbered streets, with the numbers increasing as one travels further away from Ontario. Conforming east–west roads are given a name, rather than a number, and the suffix \"Avenue.\" Where an avenue crosses Ontario street or the Cuyahoga River, its name changes, meaning that a numbered street does not intersect a given avenue more than once. For example, stating a location as \"65th and Detroit\" implies West 65th street, since Detroit Avenue changes to Superior Avenue when it crosses the river. Non-conforming streets are suffixed with names other than \"street\" or \"avenue,\" e.g., West Boulevard, Old River Road, Martin Luther King Jr. Drive. Geographic idiosyncrasies in certain parts of the city mean that this is by no means an absolute rule, but generally applies within the city proper. The major exceptions to this system are the street names in the near west side city of Lakewood, and in a few cities on the far east side, generally south of Euclid Avenue and north of Chagrin Boulevard. The street numbering extends from West 233rd in North Olmsted to East 367th in Eastlake, adjacent to the Willoughby municipal line.\n\nDenver has two systems in place in two distinct areas of the city. Downtown Denver's diagonal street system technically begins with 4th Street near Auraria Campus, underneath the Colfax Avenue viaduct. The system then counts up northeastward from 4th Street to 40th Street. The diagonal system meets the normal numbered grid at various points, with the termination of the downtown system at 40th Avenue and 40th Street in the Five Points neighborhood.\n\nThe second system is a typical East/West layout, with directional indicators. First Avenue is adjacent to Ellsworth Avenue in Central Denver; the series extends to 168th Avenue in unincorporated Adams County. Exceptions include Colfax Avenue, which takes the place of 15th Avenue, and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, which generally takes the place of East 32nd Avenue. The designations \"East\" and \"North\" are generally not used unless needed. Building numbers on cross-streets reflect the street numbering; for example, 1800 Colorado Boulevard would be at the corner of 18th Avenue. (1800 South Colorado Boulevard is outside the area of numbered streets.)\n\nIn the northern suburbs of Detroit, \"___ Mile Road\" runs east–west, a stated number of miles from the center of Detroit. Some of these roads are also known by other names. The lowest numbered road is 5 Mile Road, while the city limits end at 8 Mile Road, which at one time was called \"Baseline Road\". The highest such numbered road is 38 Mile Road, which is mostly in Almont.\n\nThe city of Detroit also has some conventional numbered streets within the city limits.\n\nIn Greater Miami, numbered streets go into three digits, with varying, overlapping sets of numbered streets. The area has roads that are named as a number followed by \"Street\" that run west–east, and a number followed by \"Avenue\" that run north–south. All these streets start their names with NW, NE, SW, or SE, depending where they are in relation to the center of Miami.\n\nIn the Miami suburbs, some numbered streets and avenues are paired with a parallel \"Court\", \"Drive\", \"Place\" or \"Terrace\"; while in the same area, other sets of numbered streets and avenues exist with lower numbers, such as in Hialeah, where W 68th St is also designated NW 122 St . This is known to lead to confusion among some, especially non-locals.\n\nSimilar numbering systems are used throughout the state of Florida, such as in Gainesville, Ocala, Panama City, and Jacksonville.\n\nThe Commissioners' Plan of 1811 laid out the grid that covers most of Manhattan today. Most east–west streets (which actually run southeast–northwest) are named \"___th Street\", and a few major north–south streets (which actually run northeast–southwest, roughly parallel to the island's long axis) are named \"___th Avenue\".\n\nThe highest-numbered street on Manhattan Island is 220th Street, and the highest-numbered street in the Borough of Manhattan is 228th Street.\n\nThe Manhattan numbered street grid continues north in The Bronx, where the highest numbered street is West 263rd Street on the border of Yonkers. The only numbered avenue in The Bronx is a continuation of Manhattan's Third Avenue.\n\nIn Queens, the melding of various grids from pre-consolidation villages resulted in repeat numbers, for example 67th Street, 67th Place, 67th Avenue, 67th Road and 67th Drive. Streets and places run north to south, while avenues, roads and drives run east to west. The avenues run from Third Avenue in Whitestone to 165th Avenue in Howard Beach. Streets run from First Street in Astoria to 271st Street in Floral Park.\n\nIn Brooklyn, there are ten sets of numbered streets (unprefixed numbered streets as well as North, South, East, West, Bay, Brighton, Paerdegat, Plumb, and Flatlands numbered streets), along with numbered avenues up to 28th Avenue and letter avenues up to Avenue Z. Manhattan's Alphabet City consists of Avenues A through D.\n\nThe Rockaways section of Queens has streets prefixed with the word \"Beach\". However, street signs in this area typically identify this prefix using only the letter B (e.g. \"B 116 St\"). The neighborhood of Broad Channel also has its own network of numbered roads, prefixed with East or West, relative to Cross Bay Boulevard.\n\nThe closest cross street to a given building number in Manhattan can be estimated using the Manhattan address algorithm.\n\nThe highest-numbered street in all of New York City is 271st Street, located in Glen Oaks, Queens. 704th Street in Orangeburg, New York is the highest-numbered street in the Greater New York City area, and at one point was the highest-numbered street in the United States. The highest-numbered Avenue in Manhattan is the obscure 13th Avenue, on Gansevoort Peninsula in the Hudson River just north of Gansevoort Street. Currently, only one unmarked block remains, currently used as a garbage truck access behind the Bloomfield Street Sanitation Depot. The street was once longer, but much of the land it was built on was removed to provide longer piers for berthing larger ships, such as and , without protruding further into the Hudson River. 12th Avenue is the highest numbered avenue that is signed by the city and accessible to the public. Higher-numbered avenues exist in other boroughs.\n\nSixth and a Half Avenue, is the only numbered avenue in Manhattan involving fractions.\n\nCentral Philadelphia was laid out by Thomas Holme in 1683 and was the first city to use numbered streets systematically. While the original plan had two sets of north–south numbered streets, one parallel to the Delaware River and one to the Schuylkill; all are now numbered from the Delaware, with numbers increasing westward and continuing across the Schuylkill through West Philadelphia to the edge of the city. There are two main exceptions to this pattern: Holme's plan included Front Street in place of First and Broad Street in place of Fourteenth; \"Schuylkill Front Street\" became 22nd when the streets west of Broad were renumbered. The highest numbered street is 90th Street. In Southwest Philadelphia, the grid is oblique, with numbered streets running from northwest to southeast and meeting their West Philadelphia equivalents at Baltimore Avenue. In general, numbered streets northwest of the Schuylkill are not aligned with their counterparts across the river in South Philadelphia.\n\nThe Kensington area has streets lettered \"A\" through \"O\". The East Oak Lane and West Oak Lane sections of the city contains east–west streets numbered from 64th Avenue to 80th Avenue, with the numbers correspondent with the block numbers north from Market Street.\n\nIn the early 20th century, many of Chestnut Hill's previously numbered streets were renamed for Native American tribes.\n\nSan Francisco has two numbered series: First Street through 30th Street in South-of-Market and the Mission district, and 2nd Avenue through 48th Avenue in the Richmond and Sunset districts, with 48th nearest the Pacific Ocean. (The street that would be First Avenue is named Arguello Boulevard, and Funston Avenue replaces 13th Avenue, although 13th Street exists.) Unlike Manhattan, the numbered streets and avenues do not meet; but, because of a bend in the pattern, Third Street meets 16th through 26th Streets. (This bend also marks where spelled-out street numbers are used interchangeably to the northeast, and where numbers written as 13th, 14th, etc. are required to the south – in contrast, all numbered avenues are always written as 2nd, 3rd, etc.)\n\nThe numbered streets and avenues make up the great majority of streets in San Francisco whose signs include the \"St.\" or \"Ave.\" designation (counter-examples include El Camino del Mar, and non-standard signs in Golden Gate Park and military bases).\n\nPierre L'Enfant's plan for Washington, D.C. includes both radial avenues and grid system consisting of both numbered and lettered streets. North-south streets are named with numbers, such as \"7th Street,\" and west–east streets are named with letters, such as \"H Street.\" The name is then followed with a directional suffix (NW, NE, SW, or SE), specifying a quadrant of the city (e.g. 16th Street Northwest). The quadrants meet at the U.S. Capitol building.\n\nWithin the city, the quadrants are divided by three streets known as \"North\", \"East\", and \"South\" Capitol Streets, and by the National Mall, which takes the place of the non-existent \"West Capitol Street\". Numbers start counting upward on either side of North and South Capitol Streets, and letters start counting upward on either side of East Capitol Street and the National Mall.\n\nThe city of Calgary uses a quadrant system with a grid set. The east–west demarcation line separating the north and south is the Bow River west of Nose Creek, Centre Avenue directly east of Nose Creek, and Memorial Drive east of 36th Street. The north–south line is Centre Street. Streets run north–south and avenues run east–west; both are numbered beginning at the demarcation lines. Many older areas also have \"A\" and \"B\" streets interspersed between the numbered streets; for instance, in most older neighbourhoods the street directly west of Centre Street is 1st Street, but a Centre A Street runs for short distances in certain areas. Suburban neighbourhoods built since approximately 1971 tend to have named streets except in cases where numbered streets extend into the district. A typical (if fictional) street address in an older district would be \"4214-19A Street SW\". As such, addresses of buildings on numbered streets are worthless without a quadrant.\n\nThe grid is based on the Dominion Land Survey, with many of the main roads in the older areas of town (such as Crowchild Trail SW and 17th Avenue SE) following the lines that separate one DLS section from another (\"section lines\").\n\nAvenues in the Municipal District of Foothills No. 31, south of the city are numbered as they would be if they were in the city (with quadrant omitted). However, the basis for numbered streets in the Municipal District of Foothills (the \"zero\" street) is the Fifth Meridian (114° west), approximately east of Calgary's Centre Street. Streets are then numbered east and west with 16 streets for each one-mile grid road – or one street number per 100 m. This leads to situations at the south city limit where the street number changes (e.g. 85 Street SW changes to 144 Street W). The impetus for this came originally from emergency response groups, such as fire departments and police.\n\nRocky View County, which surrounds Calgary to the east, west and north, uses a different system of road numbers based on the Alberta Township System for land surveys. In Rocky View, range roads run north–south and are numbered in (the boundary of one survey section) increments west from the nearest survey range line (e.g. Range Road 51 is 1 mile west of the east edge of Range 5 west of the 5th Meridian). Township roads are east–west roads numbered in similar increments north of survey township lines (e.g. Township Road 264 is 4 miles north of the south edge of Township 26). Addressing is based on the distance west or north from the nearest crossroad (e.g. 264054 Range Road 51 would be north of Township Road 264). Roads ending in 0 are on their respective range or township lines. Suffixed roads (e.g. ending with an \"A\", \"B\", etc...) are between section lines (e.g. along \"quarter\" lines which split the 640-acre sections into smaller quarter-sections).\n\nThe city of Edmonton's grid system is similar in nature to Calgary's, except that the two roads designated at the \"centre\" of Edmonton were numbered 101st (Jasper) Avenue and 101st (Main) Street. This was done to eliminate the possibility that the city would have quadrants as Calgary does. The gradual expansion of the city now extends it east and south of what is 1st (Meridian) Street and 1st (Quadrant) Avenue. As such, most of the city is officially located in the northwest quadrant, but common practice is to not refer to the quadrant unless the address being mentioned is not located in the northwest quadrant. The city limits do not yet extend into where the southeast quadrant would be located, meaning addresses will be post-fixed with either NW, SW, or NE.\n\nA grid system of numbered streets and avenues is used south of the Fraser River, in the municipalities of Delta, Surrey and Langley. Avenues run east–west and are numbered starting with 0 (\"Zero\") avenue next to the Canada–US border and going north, with the numbers incrementing each mile (200 metres). Streets run north–south and are numbered starting with zero lying in the Strait of Georgia and going east, with the numbers incrementing each mile, just like the avenues. Minor streets named with a number followed by a letter (136A Street, 136B street) are situated between the numbers.\n\nThe city of Vancouver proper uses its own road numbering system, numbering east–west avenues from first at False Creek and incrementing south. Similarly, the city of New Westminster has its own numbering system with avenues northeast–southwest and streets northwest–southeast.\n\nMany small towns and cities in Western Canada use numbered streets. Some begin numbering at Centre or Main (0) as Calgary does, but others follow Edmonton's example and begin numbering at 1, 50, or 100. Examples include Brandon, Manitoba, where streets, running north–south, are numbered; and Red Deer, Alberta, where numbered streets run east–west, and numbered avenues run north–south. In Saskatoon, Saskatchewan only the streets, running east–west, are numbered (aside from avenues downtown, which are numbered from 1st to 10th); there are lettered avenues to the west of Idylwyld Drive, which was formerly known as Avenue A (a stub of Avenue A does remain south of 20th Street though). Streets in the Sutherland district in Saskatoon are numbered 101 St to 117 St. This was done when the town of Sutherland amalgamated with Saskatoon, to avoid confusion with Saskatoon's numbered streets, which run from 1 to 71.\n\nNumerous street numbering schemes were proposed for the various municipalities originally making up Greater Winnipeg, but most were quickly rescinded, as the city is not built on a uniform grid and numbering was considered unwieldy. Only one roadway (Fifth Avenue in St. Vital) retains its \"number\", but the street name is legally the word \"Fifth\" and not the number. Numbered roadways are also found within CFB Winnipeg, but the street names within the base were chosen by the Department of National Defence and not by the city itself.\n\nNumbered streets are less common in Eastern Canada, with some notable exceptions. Owen Sound, Ontario, is one of the few cities that primarily use numbered streets and avenues. Saint-Georges, Quebec has a numbered system of streets/rues and avenues that extends into the surrounding Chaudière-Appalaches region. Many urban enclaves were established with numbered streets or avenues as part of their distinct character. The Glebe in Ottawa is an example, with avenues numbered First to Fifth. New Toronto has numbered streets, running westward off of Lake Shore Boulevard, starting at 1st Street (just west of Royal York Road), to 43rd Street, excluding Eighteenth Street and Thirty-Fourth Street, as Kipling Avenue and the Long Branch Avenue replace them, respectively. The city of St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador has a single numbered street called 18th Street, located in the Waterford Valley area; it is unclear how this name originated or whether this street was meant to form part of a larger grid system.\n\nSome cities (such as Rio Claro) use numbered streets, though main streets might receive different names.\n\nAll 1,119 municipalities in Colombia have numbered streets divided into a grid, and the government of Colombia has a complete nomenclature to classify the streets. Occasionally main streets receive names like El Dorado Avenue in Bogota the capital city.\n\nHavana has even-numbered streets running north–south, and odd-numbered streets running east–west on the west side of the city, with lettered streets from A through P running north–south beginning on the east side of Paseo Avenue. Some streets are named with a number followed by a letter (23 B Street).\n\nA notable European example is the city center of Mannheim where blocks are numbered in a grid-like system since 1811, and streets actually do not have names anymore—for example the houses in \"street\" B7 are those in the block in grid B7. The houses on the other side of the street belong to other blocks and therefore have another street name.\n\nIn the capital city Budapest there are some outer districts which have areas with numbered streets (and in one case, a numbered square), like Akadémiaújtelep. These areas are planned communities built in the 1950s.\n\nIn Lelystad some streets have a combination of names and numbers. The streets with the same name (but different number) are in the same area. In Botter the names are Botter and Tjalk, in Galjoen the names are Galjoen and Jol, in Schouw the names are Schouw and Gondel, although there are \"normal\" names there, etc. There are also other cities with similar numbering like Wijchen and Nijmegen.\n\nA notable example of a citywide numbered streets system in Portugal, is the city of Espinho. Espinho, in the district of Aveiro, was mainly built in the late 19th century in a grid pattern, with its streets being numbered instead of being named. Streets running north–south are numbered with even numbers and streets running west–east are numbered with odd numbers.\n\nNumbered streets are also occasionally used in other Portuguese cities, but only in specific areas within them and not as a citywide system. This happens mainly in newly built neighborhoods, especially those planned in a grid pattern.\n\nWith the notable exception of Milton Keynes, numbered streets are uncommon in the United Kingdom because cities and towns are generally not laid out in grids. However, the Village, a small area of Trafford Park is laid out in a grid pattern. It has north–south streets numbered from First Avenue in the east to Fifth Avenue in the west, and west–east streets numbered from Fifth Street in the south to Eleventh Street in the north. The former mining town of Newtongrange in Midlothian, Scotland has residential streets numbered from First Street to Tenth Street.\n\nOn Hong Kong Island, in the Sai Ying Pun neighborhood, there are a series of streets named with numbers. They are part of a planned layout of the early development of Hong Kong. See First Street\n\nIn Tehran there are multiple sets of numbered streets running from west to east in various sections of the north side of town. In many such sections, the street numbers count upward by two, with even-numbered streets on one side of a neighborhood, and odd-numbered streets on the other. The highest numbered street is 304th Street. The city also has other series of streets with a name combining with a number.\n\nIn the United Arab Emirates, most streets and roads are numbered. Most commonly in smaller cities, they are identified with a 4-digit number followed by \"way\".\n\nAbu Dhabi has even-numbered streets running west–east, and odd-numbered streets running north–south.\n\nDubai has numbered streets that simply have the number followed by \"street\" (e.g. 41st Street), as well as streets named with a number followed by a letter (23 B Street).\n\n"}
{"id": "42966578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42966578", "title": "One Hudson Yards", "text": "One Hudson Yards\n\nOne Hudson Yards is a residential skyscraper at 530 West 30th Street in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. Related Companies developed the building, and it is adjacent the much larger Hudson Yards project. One Hudson Yards contains 178 apartments. The building is clad in brick, reminiscent of the industrial buildings that once occupied the site. \n\nThe name \"One Hudson Yards\" originally referred to 55 Hudson Yards.\n"}
{"id": "54340583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54340583", "title": "Paired Fortress Gates", "text": "Paired Fortress Gates\n\nThe Paired Fortress Gates or Gosha Gala Gapysy (also sometimes called Shamakhi gates and The gates of Shah Abbas) are one of the main entrances to the Icherisheher section of Baku, Azerbaijan. Until the end of the 19th century, the Shamakhi Gates had been the only entry to the fortress. \n\nAfter the second row of fortification walls was demolished in the late 19th century, the gates of the second row (called “Gates of Zulfugar Khan”) were moved next to the Shamakhi Gates. Since then, the Gates have been referred to as “Paired Fortress Gates”. \n"}
{"id": "1114732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114732", "title": "Palestine (region)", "text": "Palestine (region)\n\nPalestine ( , , ; , \"Palaistinē\"; ; \"Palestina\") is a geographic region in Western Asia usually considered to include Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, and in some definitions, some parts of western Jordan.\n\nThe name was used by ancient Greek writers, and it was later used for the Roman province Syria Palaestina, the Byzantine Palaestina Prima, and the Islamic provincial district of Jund Filastin. The region comprises most of the territory claimed for the biblical regions known as the Land of Israel ( \"Eretz-Yisra'el\"), the Holy Land or Promised Land. Historically, it has been known as the southern portion of wider regional designations such as Canaan, Syria, ash-Sham, and the Levant.\n\nSituated at a strategic location between Egypt, Syria and Arabia, and the birthplace of Judaism and Christianity, the region has a long and tumultuous history as a crossroads for religion, culture, commerce, and politics. The region has been controlled by numerous peoples, including Ancient Egyptians, Canaanites, Israelites and Judeans, Assyrians, Babylonians, Achaemenids, ancient Greeks, the Jewish Hasmonean Kingdom, Romans, Parthians, Sasanians, Byzantines, the Arab Rashidun, Umayyad, Abbasid and Fatimid caliphates, Crusaders, Ayyubids, Mamluks, Mongols, Ottomans, the British, and modern Israelis, Jordanians, Egyptians and Palestinians.\n\nThe boundaries of the region have changed throughout history. Today, the region comprises the State of Israel and the Palestinian territories in which the State of Palestine was declared.\n\nModern archaeology has identified 12 ancient inscriptions from Egyptian and Assyrian records recording likely cognates of Hebrew \"Pelesheth\". The term \"Peleset\" (transliterated from hieroglyphs as \"P-r-s-t\") is found in five inscriptions referring to a neighboring people or land starting from c. 1150 BCE during the Twentieth dynasty of Egypt. The first known mention is at the temple at Medinet Habu which refers to the Peleset among those who fought with Egypt in Ramesses III's reign, and the last known is 300 years later on Padiiset's Statue. Seven known Assyrian inscriptions refer to the region of \"Palashtu\" or \"Pilistu\", beginning with Adad-nirari III in the Nimrud Slab in c. 800 BCE through to a treaty made by Esarhaddon more than a century later. Neither the Egyptian nor the Assyrian sources provided clear regional boundaries for the term.\n\nThe first clear use of the term Palestine to refer to the entire area between Phoenicia and Egypt was in 5th century BCE Ancient Greece, when Herodotus wrote of a \"district of Syria, called \"Palaistinê\"\" () in \"The Histories\", which included the Judean mountains and the Jordan Rift Valley. Approximately a century later, Aristotle used a similar definition for the region in \"Meteorology\", in which he included the Dead Sea. Later Greek writers such as Polemon and Pausanias also used the term to refer to the same region, which was followed by Roman writers such as Ovid, Tibullus, Pomponius Mela, Pliny the Elder, Dio Chrysostom, Statius, Plutarch as well as Roman Judean writers Philo of Alexandria and Josephus. The term was first used to denote an official province in c. 135 CE, when the Roman authorities, following the suppression of the Bar Kokhba Revolt, combined Iudaea Province with Galilee and the Paralia to form \"Syria Palaestina\". There is circumstantial evidence linking Hadrian with the name change, but the precise date is not certain and the assertion of some scholars that the name change was intended \"to complete the dissociation with Judaea\" is disputed.\n\nThe term is generally accepted to be a translation of the Biblical name \"Peleshet\" ( \"Pəlésheth\", usually transliterated as Philistia). The term and its derivates are used more than 250 times in Masoretic-derived versions of the Hebrew Bible, of which 10 uses are in the Torah, with undefined boundaries, and almost 200 of the remaining references are in the Book of Judges and the Books of Samuel. The term is rarely used in the Septuagint, which used a transliteration \"Land of Phylistieim\" (\"Γῆ τῶν Φυλιστιείμ\") different from the contemporary Greek place name \"Palaistínē\" (\"Παλαιστίνη\").\n\nThe Septuagint instead used the term \"allophuloi\" (άλλόφυλοι, \"other nations\") throughout the Books of Judges and Samuel, such that the term \"Philistines\" has been interpreted to mean \"non-Israelites of the Promised Land\" when used in the context of Samson, Saul and David, and Rabbinic sources explain that these peoples were different from the Philistines of the Book of Genesis.\n\nDuring the Byzantine period, the region of Palestine within Syria Palaestina was subdivided into Palaestina Prima and Secunda, and an area of land including the Negev and Sinai became Palaestina Salutaris. Following the Muslim conquest, place names that were in use by the Byzantine administration generally continued to be used in Arabic. The use of the name \"Palestine\" became common in Early Modern English, was used in English and Arabic during the Mutasarrifate of Jerusalem and was revived as an official place name with the British Mandate for Palestine.\n\nSome other terms that have been used to refer to all or part of this land include Canaan, Land of Israel (Eretz Yisrael or Ha'aretz), the Promised Land, Greater Syria, the Holy Land, Iudaea Province, Judea, Coele-Syria, \"Israel HaShlema\", Kingdom of Israel, Kingdom of Jerusalem, Zion, \"Retenu\" (Ancient Egyptian), Southern Syria, Southern Levant and Syria Palaestina.\n\nSituated at a strategic location between Egypt, Syria and Arabia, and the birthplace of Judaism and Christianity, the region has a long and tumultuous history as a crossroads for religion, culture, commerce, and politics. The region has been controlled by numerous peoples, including Ancient Egyptians, Canaanites, Israelites, Assyrians, Babylonians, Achaemenids, Ancient Greeks, Romans, Parthians, Sasanians, Byzantines, the Arab Rashidun, Umayyad, Abbasid and Fatimid caliphates, Crusaders, Ayyubids, Mamluks, Mongols, Ottomans, the British, and modern Israelis and Palestinians. Modern archaeologists and historians of the region refer to their field of study as Levantine archaeology.\n\nThe region was among the earliest in the world to see human habitation, agricultural communities and civilization. During the Bronze Age, independent Canaanite city-states were established, and were influenced by the surrounding civilizations of ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Phoenicia, Minoan Crete, and Syria. Between 1550 and 1400 BCE, the Canaanite cities became vassals to the Egyptian New Kingdom who held power until the 1178 BCE Battle of Djahy (Canaan) during the wider Bronze Age collapse. The Israelites emerged from a dramatic social transformation that took place in the people of the central hill country of Canaan around 1200 BCE, with no signs of violent invasion or even of peaceful infiltration of a clearly defined ethnic group from elsewhere.\n\nDuring the Iron Age the Israelites established two related kingdoms, Israel and Judah. The Kingdom of Israel emerged as an important local power by the 10th century BCE before falling to the Neo-Assyrian Empire in 722 BCE. Israel's southern neighbor, the Kingdom of Judah, emerged in the 8th or 9th century BCE and later became a client state of first the Neo-Assyrian and then the Neo-Babylonian Empire before a revolt against the latter led to its destruction in 586 BCE.\n\nThe region became part of the Neo-Assyrian Empire from c. 740 BCE, which was itself replaced by the Neo-Babylonian Empire in c. 627 BCE. According to the Bible, a war with Egypt culminated in 586 BCE when Jerusalem was destroyed by the Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar II and the king and upper class of the Kingdom of Judah were deported to Babylon. In 539 BCE, the Babylonian empire was replaced by the Achaemenid Empire. According to the Bible and implications from the Cyrus Cylinder, the exiled population of Judah was allowed to return to Jerusalem. Southern Palestine became a province of the Achaemenid Empire, called Idumea, and the evidence from ostraca suggests that a Nabataean-type society, since the Idumeans appear to be connected to the Nabataeans, took shape in southern Palestine in the 4th century B.C.E., and that the Qedarite Arab kingdom penetrated throughout this area through the period of Persian and Hellenistic dominion.\n\nIn the 330s BCE, Macedonian ruler Alexander the Great conquered the region, which changed hands several times during the wars of the Diadochi and later Syrian Wars. It ultimately fell to the Seleucid Empire between 219–200 BCE. In 116 BCE, a Seleucid civil war resulted in the independence of certain regions including the Hasmonean principality in the Judaean Mountains. From 110 BCE, the Hasmoneans extended their authority over much of Palestine, creating a Judaean–Samaritan–Idumaean–Ituraean–Galilean alliance. The Judaean (Jewish, see Ioudaioi) control over the wider region resulted in it also becoming known as Judaea, a term that had previously only referred to the smaller region of the Judaean Mountains. Between 73–63 BCE, the Roman Republic extended its influence into the region in the Third Mithridatic War, conquering Judea in 63 BCE, and splitting the former Hasmonean Kingdom into five districts. In around 40 BCE, the Parthians conquered Palestine, deposed the Roman ally Hyrcanus II, and installed a puppet ruler of the Hasmonean line known as Antigonus II. By 37 BCE, the Parthians withdrew from Palestine. The three-year Ministry of Jesus, culminating in his crucifixion, is estimated to have occurred from 28–30 CE, although the historicity of Jesus is disputed by a minority of scholars. In 70 CE, Titus sacked Jerusalem, resulting in the dispersal of the city's Jews and Christians to Yavne and Pella. In 132 CE, Hadrian joined the province of Iudaea with Galilee and the Paralia to form new province of Syria Palaestina, and Jerusalem was renamed \"Aelia Capitolina\". Between 259–272, the region fell under the rule of Odaenathus as King of the Palmyrene Empire. Following the victory of Christian emperor Constantine in the Civil wars of the Tetrarchy, the Christianization of the Roman Empire began, and in 326, Constantine's mother Saint Helena visited Jerusalem and began the construction of churches and shrines. Palestine became a center of Christianity, attracting numerous monks and religious scholars. The Samaritan Revolts during this period caused their near extinction. In 614 CE, Palestine was annexed by another Persian dynasty; the Sassanids, until returning to Byzantine control in 628 CE.\n\nPalestine was conquered by the Islamic Caliphate, beginning in 634 CE. In 636, the Battle of Yarmouk during the Muslim conquest of the Levant marked the start of Muslim hegemony over the region, which became known as Jund Filastin within the province of Bilâd al-Shâm (Greater Syria). In 661, with the Assassination of Ali, Muawiyah I became the Caliph of the Islamic world after being crowned in Jerusalem. The Dome of the Rock, completed in 691, was the world's first great work of Islamic architecture.\n\nThe majority of the population was Christian and was to remain so until the conquest of Saladin in 1187. The Muslim conquest apparently had little impact on social and administrative continuities for several decades. The word 'Arab' at the time referred predominantly to Bedouin nomads, though Arab settlement is attested in the Judean highlands and near Jerusalem by the 5th century, and some tribes had converted to Christianity. The local population engaged in farming, which was considered demeaning, and were called \"Nabaț\", referring to Aramaic-speaking villagers. A ḥadīth, brought in the name of a Muslim freedman who settled in Palestine, ordered the Muslim Arabs not to settle in the villages, \"for he who abides in villages it is as if he abides in graves\".\nThe Umayyads, who had spurred a strong economic resurgence in the area, were replaced by the Abbasids in 750. Ramla became the administrative centre for the following centuries, while Tiberias became a thriving centre of Muslim scholarship. From 878, Palestine was ruled from Egypt by semi-autonomous rulers for almost a century, beginning with the Turkish freeman Ahmad ibn Tulun, for whom both Jews and Christians prayed when he lay dying and ending with the Ikhshidid rulers. Reverence for Jerusalem increased during this period, with many of the Egyptian rulers choosing to be buried there. However, the later period became characterized by persecution of Christians as the threat from Byzantium grew. The Fatimids, with a predominantly Berber army, conquered the region in 970, a date that marks the beginning of a period of unceasing warfare between numerous enemies, which destroyed Palestine, and in particular devastating its Jewish population. Between 1071 and 1073, Palestine was captured by the Great Seljuq Empire, only to be recaptured by the Fatimids in 1098, who then lost the region to the Crusaders in 1099. The latter set up the Kingdom of Jerusalem (1099-1291). Their control of Jerusalem and most of Palestine lasted almost a century until their defeat by Saladin's forces in 1187, after which most of Palestine was controlled by the Ayyubids, except for the years 1229-1244 when Jerusalem and other areas were retaken during the Sixth Crusade. A rump crusader state in the northern coastal cities survived until the end of the thirteenth century, but, despite seven further crusades, the Crusaders were no longer a significant power in the region. The Fourth Crusade, which did not reach Palestine, led directly to the decline of the Byzantine Empire, dramatically reducing Christian influence throughout the region.\n\nThe Mamluk Sultanate was indirectly created in Egypt as a result of the Seventh Crusade. The Mongol Empire reached Palestine for the first time in 1260, beginning with the Mongol raids into Palestine under Nestorian Christian general Kitbuqa, and reaching an apex at the pivotal Battle of Ain Jalut, where they were routed by the Mamluks.\n\nIn 1486, hostilities broke out between the Mamluks and the Ottoman Empire in a battle for control over western Asia, and the Ottomans conquered Palestine in 1516. Between the mid-16th and 17th centuries, a close-knit alliance of three local dynasties, the Ridwans of Gaza, the Turabays of al-Lajjun and the Farrukhs of Nablus, governed Palestine on behalf of the Porte (imperial Ottoman government).\nIn the 18th century, the Zaydani clan under the leadership of Zahir al-Umar ruled large parts of Palestine autonomously until the Ottomans were able to defeat them in their Galilee strongholds in 1775-76. Zahir had turned the port city of Acre into a major regional power, partly fueled by his monopolization of the cotton and olive oil trade from Palestine to Europe. Acre's regional dominance was further elevated under Zahir's successor Ahmad Pasha al-Jazzar at the expense of Damascus.\n\nIn 1830, on the eve of Muhammad Ali's invasion, the Porte transferred control of the sanjaks of Jerusalem and Nablus to Abdullah Pasha, the governor of Acre. According to Silverburg, in regional and cultural terms this move was important for creating an Arab Palestine detached from greater Syria (\"bilad al-Sham\"). According to Pappe, it was an attempt to reinforce the Syrian front in face of Muhammad Ali's invasion. Two years later, Palestine was conquered by Muhammad Ali's Egypt, but Egyptian rule was challenged in 1834 by a countrywide popular uprising against conscription and other measures considered intrusive by the population. Its suppression devastated many of Palestine's villages and major towns.\n\nIn 1840, Britain intervened and returned control of the Levant to the Ottomans in return for further capitulations. The death of Aqil Agha marked the last local challenge to Ottoman centralization in Palestine, and beginning in the 1860s, Palestine underwent an acceleration in its socio-economic development, due to its incorporation into the global, and particularly European, economic pattern of growth. The beneficiaries of this process were Arabic-speaking Muslims and Christians who emerged as a new layer within the Arab elite. From 1880 large-scale Jewish immigration began, almost entirely from Europe, based on an explicitly Zionist ideology. There was also a revival of the Hebrew language and culture.\n\nChristian Zionism in the United Kingdom preceded its spread within the Jewish community. The government of Great Britain publicly supported it during World War I with the Balfour Declaration of 1917.\n\nThe British began their Sinai and Palestine Campaign in 1915. The war reached southern Palestine in 1917, progressing to Gaza and around Jerusalem by the end of the year. The British secured Jerusalem in December 1917. They moved into the Jordan valley in 1918 and a campaign by the Entente into northern Palestine led to victory at Megiddo in September.\n\nThe British were formally awarded the mandate to govern the region in 1922. The non-Jewish Palestinians revolted in 1920, 1929, and 1936. In 1947, following World War II and The Holocaust, the British Government announced its desire to terminate the Mandate, and the United Nations General Assembly adopted in November 1947 a Resolution 181(II) recommending partition into an Arab state, a Jewish state and the Special International Regime for the City of Jerusalem. The Jewish leadership accepted the proposal, but the Arab Higher Committee rejected it; a civil war began immediately after the Resolution's adoption. The State of Israel was declared in May 1948.\n\nIn the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Israel captured and incorporated a further 26% of the Mandate territory, Jordan captured the region of Judea and Samaria, renaming it the \"West Bank\", while the Gaza Strip was captured by Egypt. Following the 1948 Palestinian exodus, also known as al-Nakba, the 700,000 Palestinians who fled or were driven from their homes were not allowed to return following the Lausanne Conference of 1949.\n\nIn the course of the Six-Day War in June 1967, Israel captured the rest of Mandate Palestine from Jordan and Egypt, and began a policy of establishing Jewish settlements in those territories. From 1987 to 1993, the First Palestinian Intifada against Israel took place, which included the Declaration of the State of Palestine in 1988 and ended with the 1993 Oslo Peace Accords and the creation of the Palestinian National Authority.\n\nIn 2000, the Second Intifada (also called al-Aqsa Intifada) began, and Israel built a separation barrier. In the 2005 Israeli disengagement from Gaza, Israel withdrew all settlers and military presence from the Gaza Strip, but maintained military control of numerous aspects of the territory including its borders, air space and coast. Israel's ongoing military occupation of the Gaza Strip, the West Bank and East Jerusalem continues to be the world's longest military occupation in modern times.\n\nIn November 2012, the status of Palestinian delegation in the United Nations was upgraded to non-member observer state as the State of Palestine.\n\nThe boundaries of Palestine have varied throughout history. The Jordan Rift Valley (comprising Wadi Arabah, the Dead Sea and River Jordan) has at times formed a political and administrative frontier, even within empires that have controlled both territories. At other times, such as during certain periods during the Hasmonean and Crusader states for example, as well as during the biblical period, territories on both sides of the river formed part of the same administrative unit. During the Arab Caliphate period, parts of southern Lebanon and the northern highland areas of Palestine and Jordan were administered as \"Jund al-Urdun\", while the southern parts of the latter two formed part of \"Jund Dimashq\", which during the 9th century was attached to the administrative unit of \"Jund Filastin\".\n\nThe boundaries of the area and the ethnic nature of the people referred to by Herodotus in the 5th century BCE as Palaestina vary according to context. Sometimes, he uses it to refer to the coast north of Mount Carmel. Elsewhere, distinguishing the Syrians in Palestine from the Phoenicians, he refers to their land as extending down all the coast from Phoenicia to Egypt. Pliny, writing in Latin in the 1st century CE, describes a region of Syria that was \"formerly called \"Palaestina\"\" among the areas of the Eastern Mediterranean.\n\nSince the Byzantine Period, the Byzantine borders of \"Palaestina\" (\"I\" and \"II\", also known as \"Palaestina Prima\", \"First Palestine\", and \"Palaestina Secunda\", \"Second Palestine\"), have served as a name for the geographic area between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. Under Arab rule, \"Filastin\" (or \"Jund Filastin\") was used administratively to refer to what was under the Byzantines \"Palaestina Secunda\" (comprising Judaea and Samaria), while \"Palaestina Prima\" (comprising the Galilee region) was renamed \"Urdunn\" (\"Jordan\" or \"Jund al-Urdunn\").\n\nNineteenth-century sources refer to Palestine as extending from the sea to the caravan route, presumably the Hejaz-Damascus route east of the Jordan River valley. Others refer to it as extending from the sea to the desert. Prior to the Allied Powers victory in World War I and the partitioning of the Ottoman Empire, which created the British mandate in the Levant, most of the northern area of what is today Jordan formed part of the Ottoman Vilayet of Damascus (Syria), while the southern part of Jordan was part of the Vilayet of Hejaz. What later became Mandatory Palestine was in late Ottoman times divided between the Vilayet of Beirut (Lebanon) and the Sanjak of Jerusalem. The Zionist Organization provided its definition of the boundaries of Palestine in a statement to the Paris Peace Conference in 1919.\n\nThe British administered Mandatory Palestine after World War I, having promised to establish a homeland for the Jewish people. The modern definition of the region follows the boundaries of that entity, which were fixed in the North and East in 1920-23 by the British Mandate for Palestine (including the Transjordan memorandum) and the Paulet–Newcombe Agreement, and on the South by following the 1906 Turco-Egyptian boundary agreement.\nThe region of Palestine is the eponym for the Palestinian people and the culture of Palestine, both of which are defined as relating to the whole historical region, usually defined as the localities within the border of Mandatory Palestine. The 1968 Palestinian National Covenant described Palestine as the \"homeland of the Arab Palestinian people\", with \"the boundaries it had during the British Mandate\".\n\nHowever, since the 1988 Palestinian Declaration of Independence, the term State of Palestine refers only to the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. This discrepancy was described by the Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas as a negotiated concession in a September 2011 speech to the United Nations: \"... we agreed to establish the State of Palestine on only 22% of the territory of historical Palestine - on all the Palestinian Territory occupied by Israel in 1967.\"\n\nThe term \"Palestine\" is also sometimes used in a limited sense to refer to the parts of the Palestinian territories currently under the administrative control of the Palestinian National Authority, a quasi-governmental entity which governs parts of the State of Palestine under the terms of the Oslo Accords.\n\nEstimating the population of Palestine in antiquity relies on two methods – censuses and writings made at the times, and the scientific method based on excavations and statistical methods that consider the number of settlements at the particular age, area of each settlement, density factor for each settlement.\n\nThe Bar Kokhba revolt in the 2nd century CE saw a major shift in the population of Palestine. The sheer scale and scope of the overall destruction has been described by Dio Cassius in his \"Roman History\", where he notes that Roman war operations in the country had left some 580,000 Jews dead, with many more dying of hunger and disease, while 50 of their most important outposts and 985 of their most famous villages were razed to the ground. \"Thus,\" writes Dio Cassius, \"nearly the whole of Judaea was made desolate.\"\n\nAccording to Israeli archaeologists Magen Broshi and Yigal Shiloh, the population of ancient Palestine did not exceed one million. By 300 CE, Christianity had spread so significantly that Jews comprised only a quarter of the population.\n\nIn a study of Ottoman registers of the early Ottoman rule of Palestine, Bernard Lewis reports:[T]he first half century of Ottoman rule brought a sharp increase in population. The towns grew rapidly, villages became larger and more numerous, and there was an extensive development of agriculture, industry, and trade. The two last were certamly helped to no small extent by the influx of Spanish and other Western Jews. From the mass of detail in the registers, it is possible to extract something like a general picture of the economic life of the country in that period. Out of a total population of about 300,000 souls, between a fifth and a quarter lived in the six towns of Jerusalem, Gaza, Safed, Nablus, Ramle, and Hebron. The remainder consisted mainly of peasants, living in villages of varying size, and engaged in agriculture. Their main food-crops were wheat and barley in that order, supplemented by leguminous pulses, olives, fruit, and vegetables. In and around most of the towns there was a considerable number of vineyards, orchards, and vegetable gardens.\nAccording to Alexander Scholch, the population of Palestine in 1850 was about 350,000 inhabitants, 30% of whom lived in 13 towns; roughly 85% were Muslims, 11% were Christians and 4% Jews.\n\nAccording to Ottoman statistics studied by Justin McCarthy, the population of Palestine in the early 19th century was 350,000, in 1860 it was 411,000 and in 1900 about 600,000 of whom 94% were Arabs. In 1914 Palestine had a population of 657,000 Muslim Arabs, 81,000 Christian Arabs, and 59,000 Jews. McCarthy estimates the non-Jewish population of Palestine at 452,789 in 1882; 737,389 in 1914; 725,507 in 1922; 880,746 in 1931; and 1,339,763 in 1946.\n\nIn 1920, the League of Nations' \"Interim Report on the Civil Administration of Palestine\" described the 700,000 people living in Palestine as follows:\n\nAccording to the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics, , the total population of Israel was 8.5 million people, of which 75% were Jews, 21% Arabs, and 4% \"others.\" Of the Jewish group, 76% were Sabras (born in Israel); the rest were olim (immigrants)—16% from Europe, the former Soviet republics, and the Americas, and 8% from Asia and Africa, including the Arab countries.\n\nAccording to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics evaluations, in 2015 the Palestinian population of the West Bank was approximately 2.9 million and that of the Gaza Strip was 1.8 million. Gaza's population is expected to increase to 2.1 million people in 2020, leading to a density of more than 5,800 people per square kilometre.\n\nBoth Israeli and Palestinian statistics include Arab residents of East Jerusalem in their reports. According to these estimates the total population in the region of Palestine, as defined as Israel and the Palestinian territories, stands approximately 12.8 million.\n\nThe World Geographical Scheme for Recording Plant Distributions is widely used in recording the distribution of plants. The scheme uses the code \"PAL\" to refer to the region of Palestine – a Level 3 area. The WGSRPD's Palestine is further divided into Israel (PAL-IS), including the Palestinian territories, and Jordan (PAL-JO), so is larger than some other definitions of \"Palestine\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39175107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39175107", "title": "Qarn Alam", "text": "Qarn Alam\n\nQarn Alam is a location in Oman, near Ghaba. It is known as the land of Oil and Gas. It is nearby to Mahout, Duqm, Masirah Island\n\nIt is served by Qarn Alam Airport.\n\nCoordinates: \n"}
{"id": "57814071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57814071", "title": "Regina Fleszarowa", "text": "Regina Fleszarowa\n\nRegina Fleszarowa (28 March 1888-1 July 1969) was a Polish geographer and geologist, who participated in women's rights and served as a Senator in the Second Polish Republic between 1935 and 1938. Studying at the Sorbonne, in 1913, she received the first PhD in natural sciences awarded to a Polish woman. Considered a pioneer in establishing earth sciences in Poland, she published over 100 works concerning the geography and geology of the country. Her 5 volume bibliography on the history of earth sciences in Poland is considered her greatest achievement. She was awarded the 1st Class Banner of the Order of Labor in 1960.\n\nRegina Zofia Danysz was born on 28 March 1888 in Wiśniewo in the Siedlce Governorate of Russian Poland to Piotr Danysz. Her parents owned a small estate in Brusów, where she was raised and completed her elementary education. She went on to study in Warsaw and Kiev, before moving to Zurich in 1906. Focusing her education on geography, Danysz moved to Paris in 1907, to attend lectures on geography and geology, participating in research trips during the semester breaks to the Tatra Mountains and Kujawy, which were led by . In 1910, she received her licenciée in science from the University of Paris in 1910, continuing on with doctoral studies. Studying with Eugeniusz Romer and Charles Vélain, she prepared a thesis, \"Etude critique d'une carte ancienne de Pologne dresée par Stanislas Staszic (1806)\" (Critical study of an old map of Poland created by Stanislas Staszic [1806]) which analyzed his topographical work in the Carpathian Mountains. Early in 1913, she received the first PhD of natural sciences awarded to a Polish woman.\n\nBeginning in 1912, Danysz lectured on topology and was active in the Rifle Association, as well as the women's legionnaires. She began her career in 1913 working with Romer, who was at the University of Lviv, compiling information on atmospheric precipitation over various locations throughout Poland. While working with Romer, she met a fellow geologist, , whom she would later marry. Danysz and Romer published their findings in Warsaw in 1913. Moving to Zakopane around 1915, she became active in the press for women's rights and served as chair of the Council of Polish Women (), attending the European conventions of the International Council of Women in Brussels, Dubrovnik and Edinburgh. She and Felszar married and had a son, Mieczysław Albin. The couple worked together on geological surveys in the Carpathian Mountains. After her husband's death in 1916, Fleszarowa and her son moved to Warsaw, where she worked for a short time at the Ministry of Public Enlightenment. In 1918, she helped found the Polish Geographical Society ().\n\nIn 1919, Fleszarowa became the librarian for the National Geological Institute in Warsaw. and acquired a collection of over 30,000 volumes during her tenure, which lasted until World War II. She simultaneously continued her research, publishing articles such as \"Stanisław Staszic jako przyrodnik\" (Stanisław Staszic as a naturalist, 1926) and \"Spis jaskiń krajowych\" (List of National Caves, 1933) in scientific journals. Between 1920 and 1939, Fleszarowa published 18 texts for the Geological Bibliography of Poland. She also worked as an editor for \"Ziemia\", the journal of the Geographical Society starting in 1929. Over her lifetime, Fleszarowa published over 100 articles on the scientific history and geography of Poland, including compiling studies of Russian scientists on Polish territories, gathering information through questionnaires about the geological work done during the Occupation, as well as publishing a biographical dictionary of Polish geologists.\n\nFleszarowa was appointed in 1935 to serve as a Senator by the President of the Polish Republic. During her tenure, she focused on formal organization of scientific pursuits and expanding the rights of citizens. In 1937 was one of the organizers of the Democratic Club of Warsaw, serving as its vice-president and Democratic Alliance Party. Her Senate term ended in 1938 and during the Occupation of Poland, she joined the underground movement, participating in the Home Army. Working in developing information and propaganda for the Home Army, she distributed maps and published literature,setting up an editorial office for underground writings. She worked to hide Jews, and led secret meeting of librarians, leading the effort to hide the archive of the Association of Polish Librarians. Fleeing the city before the Warsaw Uprising in 1944, Fleszarowa went to Lublin and worked as a contact to the Polish Committee of National Liberation. In October 1944, she was appointed head of the Library Department of the Ministry of Education.\n\nIn 1945, she served as co-founder in reorganizing the Women's League and was appointed to serve in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Party government. Participating in peace conferences held in Moscow, Paris, Potsdam and Prague, she was one of the cartographers who delineated the western Polish border. From 1945 to 1948, she served on the City Council of Warsaw. In 1951 she began working at the Museum of Earth for the Polish Academy of Sciences. She prepared a bibliography on the history of earth sciences in Poland, covering a 200 year period, prior to her retirement in 1958. This work was her \"greatest scientific achievement\", covering material from the mid-eighteenth century through the mid-twentieth century in 5 volumes. The first volumes, published in 1957 covered the twentieth century and the last volume, published in 1966 covered the material through the end of the 19th century, summarizing documents found in the records published by the Polish Geological Institute. Because she retired before the second volume was published, other editors worked to complete the publishing. \n\nAfter her retirement, Fleszarowa continued her work with the Women's League and attending meetings of the Polish Academy of Sciences, publishing works such as the \"Materiałach i Studiach z Dziejów Nauki Polskiej\" (Materials and Studies of the History of Polish Science) and two extensive studies. One of them evaluated the 200 year old geological map of Poland by J. S. Guetard and the other discussed Warsaw as it was described in \"The Physiographic Diary\" between 1881 and 1921. In 1960, she was awarded the 1st Class Banner of the Order of Labor.\n\nFleszarowa died on-board ship during a cruise on the Vistula river on 30 June or 1 July 1969. She was buried in Warsaw's Powązki Cemetery. Her masterwork on the bibliography on the history of earth sciences has been supplemented by later scientists and she is viewed as a pioneer for establishing the field of earth science in Poland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37653448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37653448", "title": "Subregion (country subdivision)", "text": "Subregion (country subdivision)\n\nA subregion or sub-region is a designation for a country subdivision in some countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39851546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39851546", "title": "Timeline of Kingston, Jamaica", "text": "Timeline of Kingston, Jamaica\n\nThe following is a timeline of the history of the city of Kingston, Jamaica.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51908265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51908265", "title": "Urban social geography", "text": "Urban social geography\n\nUrban social geography is a sub-field within human geography, looking at the factors within an urban environment that affect human relationships on social, economic and political levels. Those human relationships then feed back into the factors which then shape dynamics of the actual city itself. With numerous inputs and outputs, this study is a constantly evolving field.\n\nCities are more than just a dot on the map or a set of buildings. Alcaeus, a Greek poet, wrote about cities \"not the house finely roofed or the stones of walls well builded, nay, nor canals, and dockyards make the city, but men able to use their opportunity\". Cities have also been described as prisms in which one can see the social, economic, and geographical characteristics from which they evolved. Urban centers not only have a disproportionate percentage of the population, but also have a large amount of fixed assets, capital, labor resources, and productive capacity.\n\n\nSignificant figures in the study of urban social geography include Manuel Castells, David Harvey, Doreen Massey and Nigel Thrift.\n"}
{"id": "1358314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358314", "title": "West Saharan montane xeric woodlands", "text": "West Saharan montane xeric woodlands\n\nThe West Saharan montane xeric woodlands is an ecoregion that extends across several highland regions in the Sahara. Surrounded at lower elevations by the largely barren Sahara, the West Saharan montane xeric woodlands are isolated refuges of plants and animals that can survive in the higher humidity and lower temperatures of the highlands.\n\nThe Sahara is a vast desert, stretching across northern Africa from the Atlantic Ocean to the Red Sea. Some mountains ranges (such as the Ahaggar, Tassili n'Ajjer, Tibesti and Aïr) rise up from the desert and receive more rainfall and mostly present slightly cooler summer temperatures. These highlands support dry woodlands and shrublands distinct from the hot dry desert lowlands..\n\nThis ecoregion has an area of . The boundaries for the largest part of this ecoregion, which includes the Tassili n'Ajjer Ahaggar and Aïr (or Azbine) massifs, follow the 'regs,' 'hamadas' and 'wadis' above the 1,000 m contour. This covers a good part of southeast Algeria. These areas reach almost 3,000 meters in altitude. Additional areas further south were included within this ecoregion, including the Aïr ou Azbine in northern Niger, Dhar Adrar in Mauritania, and Adrar des Iforas in Mali and Algeria, using the 500 m-elevation contour.\n\nThe mountains of the West Saharan Montane Xeric Woodland ecoregion are found within the Sahara Desert and are predominantly of volcanic origin. They rise from the surrounding flat desert landscape or sand dunes and create islands of moister habitat (guelta) which support flora and fauna. The most important area is the Tassili n'Ajjer Plateau, an outlier of the Ahaggar Mountains in Algeria which supports some near-endemic species and some globally threatened antelopes. The highest point of these mountains is 3,003 meters (Mount Tahat).\n\nWinters are quite rigorous, with an amplitude in temperature of over 20°C. Day temperatures may be over 20°C while nights are freezing. In summer, days are very hot, though less so than in the central Sahara. Rainfall is rare and sporadic.\n\nVegetation varies greatly depending on altitude and landscape, in particular wind protection. It is often composed of relict mediterranean vegetation.\n\nIn the gueltas, vegetation is very diverse and hosts many animals. Trees may be found at lower elevations, while higher areas mostly host bushes. It is possible to find wild olive trees, or \"Olea lapperrini\". Endemic and rare species include the Saharan Cypress (“tarout”) \"(Cupressus dupreziana)\" and Saharan Myrtle \"(Myrtus nivellei)\", both of which are relict Saharan-Mediterranean species. Olive and myrtle trees grow at the bottom of wadis, intermittent stream valleys, or beside gueltas and permanent or temporary waterholes.\n\nOther species with a preference for moist habitats are \"Trianthema pentandra\", \"Lupinus pilosus\", and \"Convolvulus fatmensis\". \"Silene kiliani\", \"Acacia laeta\", \"A. scorpiodes\", and \"Cordia rochii\" grow in wadis. Other representatives of the 28 national Algerian plant rarities found on Tassili n'Ajjer include \"Ficus ingens\" and \"Anticharis glandulosa\".\n\nThe human population of the ecoregion is very small, with less than 5 persons per square kilometre. Many people are nomadic though some small cities also exist (such as Idlès). The vegetation remains fairly intact.\n"}
