{"id": "31802890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31802890", "title": "1983 Monte Carlo Open", "text": "1983 Monte Carlo Open\n\nThe 1983 Monte Carlo Open (also known as the Jacomo Monte Carlo Open for sponsorship reasons) was a men's tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts at the Monte Carlo Country Club in Monte Carlo, Monaco that was part of the 1983 Volvo Grand Prix. The tournament was held from 28 March through 1 April 1983.\n\n Mats Wilander defeated Mel Purcell, 6–1, 6–2, 6–3\n\n Heinz Günthardt / Balázs Taróczy defeated Henri Leconte / Yannick Noah, 6–2, 6–4\n\n"}
{"id": "11404573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11404573", "title": "4th Engineer Brigade (Romania)", "text": "4th Engineer Brigade (Romania)\n\nThe 4th Territorial Engineer Brigade (\"Brigada 4 Geniu\") was an engineer brigade of the Romanian Land Forces. The unit was redesignated as the 4th Engineer Battalion in 2006. It is currently subordinated to the 4th Infantry Division and its headquarters are located in Deva.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6902248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6902248", "title": "A Voz da Póvoa", "text": "A Voz da Póvoa\n\nA Voz da Póvoa is one of the three main local newspapers of Póvoa de Varzim, Portugal.\n\nIts current editor-in-chief is Ferreira de Sousa.\n"}
{"id": "40322155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40322155", "title": "Akosombo-Tema Highway", "text": "Akosombo-Tema Highway\n\nAkosombo-Tema Highway is the major highway that joins the industrial and port city of Tema to electricity generating town of Akosombo. The highway connects three regions of Ghana, the Greater Accra Region, the Eastern Region and the Volta Region.\n"}
{"id": "37879219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37879219", "title": "All People Front", "text": "All People Front\n\nThe All People Front () was an electoral coalition formed between the Communist Party of Greece, the Common Front of Workers, Farmers and Professionals and the United Front of Workers and Peasants. It participated in the elections of 1935 as Communists and Allies and took 9,59% without electing any MPs.\n\nBefore the elections of 1936, the Agricultural Party of Greece and several independent left-wing personalities entered the coalition in order to contest the 1936 Greek legislative election. The All People Front took 5.76% of the vote and won 15 seats.\n"}
{"id": "20663625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20663625", "title": "Ancient Carthage", "text": "Ancient Carthage\n\nCarthage (; , ', \"New City\"; ) was the Phoenician state, including, during the 7th–3rd centuries BC, its wider sphere of influence, known as the Carthaginian Empire. The empire extended over much of the coast of Northwest Africa as well as encompassing substantial parts of coastal Iberia and the islands of the western Mediterranean Sea.\n\nPhoenicians founded Carthage in 814 BC. Initially a dependency of the Phoenician state of Tyre, Carthage gained independence around 650 BC and established its political hegemony over other Phoenician settlements throughout the western Mediterranean, this lasting until the end of the 3rd century BC. At the height of the city's prominence, it served as a major hub of trade, with trading stations extending throughout the region.\n\nFor much of its history, Carthage was on hostile terms with the Greeks in Sicily and with the Roman Republic; tensions led to a series of armed conflicts known as the Sicilian Wars (–265 BC) and the Punic Wars (264–146 BC) respectively. The city also had to deal with potentially hostile Berbers, the indigenous inhabitants of the area where Carthage was built. In 146 BC, after the third and final Punic War, Roman forces destroyed Carthage then redesigned and occupied the site of the city. Nearly all of the other Phoenician city-states and former Carthaginian dependencies subsequently fell into Roman hands.\n\nAccording to Roman sources, Phoenician colonists from modern-day Lebanon, led by Dido (also known as Queen Elissa), founded Carthage \"circa\" 814 BC. Queen Elissa (also known as \"Alissar\") was an exiled princess of the ancient Phoenician city of Tyre. At its peak, the metropolis she founded, Carthage, came to be called the \"shining city\", ruling 300 other cities around the western Mediterranean Sea and leading the Phoenician world.\n\nElissa's brother, Pygmalion of Tyre, had murdered Elissa's husband, the high priest. Elissa escaped the tyranny of her own country, founding the \"new city\" of Carthage and subsequently its later dominions. Details of her life are sketchy and confusing, but the following can be deduced from various sources. According to Justin, Princess Elissa was the daughter of King Belus II of Tyre. When he died, the throne was jointly bequeathed to her brother, Pygmalion, and her. She married her uncle Acerbas, also known as Sychaeus, the High Priest of Melqart, a man with both authority and wealth comparable to the king. This led to increased rivalry between the religious elite and the monarchy. Pygmalion was a tyrant, lover of both gold and intrigue, who desired the authority and fortune enjoyed by Acerbas. Pygmalion assassinated Acerbas in the temple and kept the misdeed concealed from his sister for a long time, deceiving her with lies about her husband's death. At the same time, the people of Tyre called for a single sovereign.\n\nIn the Roman epic of Virgil, the \"Aeneid\", Queen Dido, the Greek name for Elissa, is first introduced as a highly esteemed character. In just seven years, since their exodus from Tyre, the Carthaginians have rebuilt a successful kingdom under her rule. Her subjects adore her and present her with a festival of praise. Her character is perceived by Virgil as even more noble when she offers asylum to Aeneas and his men, who have recently escaped from Troy. A spirit in the form of the messenger god, Mercury, sent by Jupiter, reminds Aeneas that his mission is not to stay in Carthage with his new-found love, Dido, but to sail to Italy to found Rome. Virgil ends his legend of Dido with the story that, when Aeneas tells Dido, her heart broken, she orders a pyre to be built where she falls upon Aeneas' sword. As she lay dying, she predicted eternal strife between Aeneas' people and her own: \"rise up from my bones, avenging spirit\" (4.625, trans. Fitzgerald) she says, an invocation of Hannibal. The details of Virgil's story do not, however, form part of the original legend and are significant mainly as an indication of Rome's attitude towards the city she had founded, exemplified by Cato the Elder's much-repeated utterance, \"Carthago delenda est\", \"Carthage must be destroyed\".\n\nThe Phoenicians established numerous colonial cities along the coasts of the Mediterranean to provide safe harbors for their merchant fleets, to maintain a Phoenician monopoly on an area's natural resources, and to conduct trade free of outside interference. They were also motivated to found these cities by a desire to satisfy the demand for trade goods or to escape the necessity of paying tribute to the succession of empires that ruled Tyre, Sidon, and Byblos, and by fear of complete Greek colonization of that part of the Mediterranean suitable for commerce. The Phoenicians lacked the population or necessity to establish large self-sustaining cities abroad, and most of their colonial cities had fewer than 1,000 inhabitants, but Carthage and a few others developed larger populations.\nAlthough Strabo's claim that the Tyrians founded three hundred colonies along the west African coast is clearly exaggerated, colonies were established in Tunisia, Morocco, Algeria, Iberia, and to a much lesser extent, on the arid coast of Libya. The Phoenicians were active in Cyprus, Sardinia, Corsica, the Balearic Islands, Crete, and Sicily, as well as on the European mainland at present-day Genoa in Italy and Marseille in present-day France. The settlements at Crete and Sicily were in perpetual conflict with the Greeks, but the Phoenicians managed to control all of Sicily for a limited time. The entire area later came under the leadership and protection of Carthage, which in turn dispatched its own colonists to found new cities or to reinforce those that declined with the loss of primacy of Tyre and Sidon.\n\nThe first colonies were settled on the two paths to Iberia's mineral wealth — along the Northwest African coast and on Sicily, Sardinia and the Balearic Islands. The centre of the Phoenician world was Tyre, which served as its economic and political hub. The power of this city waned following numerous sieges by Babylonia, and then its later voluntary submission to the Persian king Cambyses and incorporation within the Persian empire. Supremacy passed to Sidon, and then to Carthage, before Tyre's eventual destruction by Alexander the Great in 332 BC. Each colony paid tribute to either Tyre or Sidon, but neither city had actual control of the colonies. This changed with the rise of Carthage, since the Carthaginians appointed their own magistrates to rule the towns and Carthage retained much direct control over the colonies. This policy resulted in a number of Iberian towns siding with the Romans during the Punic Wars.\n\nIn 509 BC, a treaty was signed between Carthage and Rome indicating a division of influence and commercial activities. This is the first known source indicating that Carthage had gained control over Sicily and Sardinia.\n\nBy the beginning of the 5th century BC, Carthage had become the commercial center of the West Mediterranean region,\na position it retained until overthrown by the Roman Republic. The city had conquered most of the old Phoenician colonies (including Hadrumetum, Utica, Hippo Diarrhytus and Kerkouane), subjugated the Libyan tribes (with the Numidian and Mauretanian kingdoms remaining more or less independent), and taken control of the entire Northwest African coast from modern Morocco to the borders of Egypt (not including the Cyrenaica, which was eventually incorporated into Hellenistic Egypt). Its influence had also extended into the Mediterranean, taking control over Sardinia, Malta, the Balearic Islands, and the western half of Sicily, where coastal fortresses such as Motya or Lilybaeum secured its possessions. Important colonies had also been established on the Iberian Peninsula. Their cultural influence in the Iberian Peninsula is documented, but the degree of their political influence before the conquest by Hamilcar Barca is disputed.\n\nCarthage's economic successes, and its dependence on shipping to conduct most of its trade, led to the creation of a powerful Carthaginian navy. This, coupled with its success and growing hegemony, brought Carthage into increasing conflict with the Greeks of Syracuse, the other major power contending for control of the central Mediterranean.\n\nThe island of Sicily, lying at Carthage's doorstep, became the arena on which this conflict played out. From their earliest days, both the Greeks and Phoenicians had been attracted to the large island, establishing a large number of colonies and trading posts along its coast; battles had been fought between these settlements for centuries.\n\nBy 480 BC, Gelo, the tyrant leader of Greek Syracuse, backed in part by support from other Greek city-states, was attempting to unite the island under his rule. This imminent threat could not be ignored, and Carthage — possibly as part of an alliance with Persia — engaged military force under the leadership of the general Hamilcar. Traditional accounts, including those of Herodotus and Diodorus, give Hamilcar's army a strength of three hundred thousand men; though this is certainly exaggerated, it must nonetheless have been of formidable strength.\n\nEn route to Sicily, however, Hamilcar suffered losses (possibly severe) due to poor weather. Landing at Panormus (modern-day Palermo), Hamilcar spent 3 days reorganizing his forces and repairing his battered fleet. The Carthaginians marched along the coast to Himera, and made camp before engaging in the Battle of Himera. Hamilcar was either killed during the battle or committed suicide in shame. As a result, the nobility negotiated peace and replaced the old monarchy with a republic.\n\nBy 410 BC, Carthage had recovered after serious defeats. It had conquered much of modern-day Tunisia, strengthened and founded new colonies in Northwest Africa; Hanno the Navigator had made his journey down the African coast, and Himilco the Navigator had explored the European Atlantic coast. Expeditions were also led into Morocco and Senegal, as well as into the Atlantic. In the same year, the Iberian colonies seceded, cutting off Carthage's major supply of silver and copper, while Hannibal Mago, the grandson of Hamilcar, began preparations to reclaim Sicily.\n\nIn 409 BC, Hannibal Mago set out for Sicily with his force. He captured the smaller cities of Selinus (modern Selinunte) and Himera before returning triumphantly to Carthage with the spoils of war. But the primary enemy, Syracuse, remained untouched and, in 405 BC, Hannibal Mago led a second Carthaginian expedition to claim the entire island. This time, however, he met with fierce resistance and ill-fortune. During the siege of Agrigentum, the Carthaginian forces were ravaged by plague, Hannibal Mago himself succumbing to it. Although his successor, Himilco, successfully extended the campaign by breaking a Greek siege - capturing the city of Gela and repeatedly defeating the army of Dionysius, the new tyrant of Syracuse - he, too, was weakened by the plague and forced to sue for peace before returning to Carthage.\n\nIn 398 BC, Dionysius had regained his strength and broke the peace treaty, striking at the Carthaginian stronghold of Motya. Himilco responded decisively, leading an expedition which not only reclaimed Motya, but also captured Messina. Finally, he laid siege to Syracuse itself. The siege was close to a success throughout 397 BC, but in 396 BC plague again ravaged the Carthaginian forces, and they collapsed.\n\nThe fighting in Sicily swung in favor of Carthage in 387 BC. After winning a naval battle off the coast of Catania, Himilco laid siege to Syracuse with 50,000 Carthaginians, but yet another epidemic struck down thousands of them. Dionysius then launched a counterattack by land and sea, and the Syracusans surprised the enemy fleet while most of the crews were ashore, destroying all the Carthaginian ships. At the same time, Dionysius's ground forces stormed the besiegers' lines and routed the Carthaginians. Himilco and his chief officers abandoned their army and fled Sicily. Himilco returned to Carthage in disgrace and was very badly received; he eventually committed suicide by starving himself.\n\nSicily by this time had become an obsession for Carthage. Over the next fifty years, Carthaginian and Greek forces engaged in a constant series of skirmishes. By 340 BC, Carthage had been pushed entirely into the southwest corner of the island, and an uneasy peace reigned over the island.\n\nIn 315 BC, Agathocles, the tyrant (administrating governor) of Syracuse, seized the city of Messene (present-day Messina). In 311 BC he invaded the last Carthaginian holdings on Sicily, breaking the terms of the current peace treaty, and laid siege to Akragas.\n\nHamilcar, grandson of Hanno the Great, led the Carthaginian response and met with tremendous success. By 310 BC, he controlled almost all of Sicily and had laid siege to Syracuse itself. In desperation, Agathocles secretly led an expedition of 14,000 men to the mainland, hoping to save his rule by leading a counterstrike against Carthage itself. In this, he was successful: Carthage was forced to recall Hamilcar and most of his army from Sicily to face the new and unexpected threat. Although Agathocles's army was eventually defeated in 307 BC, Agathocles himself escaped back to Sicily and was able to negotiate a peace which maintained Syracuse as a stronghold of Greek power in Sicily.\n\nBetween 280 and 275 BC, Pyrrhus of Epirus waged two major campaigns in the western Mediterranean: one against the emerging power of the Roman Republic in southern Italy, the other against Carthage in Sicily.\n\nPyrrhus sent an advance guard to Tarentum under the command of Cineaus with 3,000 infantry. Pyrrhus marched the main army across the Greek peninsula and engaged in battles with the Thessalians and the Athenian army. After his early success on the march Pyrrhus entered Tarentum to rejoin with his advance guard.\n\nIn the midst of Pyrrhus's Italian campaigns, he received envoys from the Sicilian cities of Agrigentum, Syracuse, and Leontini, asking for military aid to remove the Carthaginian dominance over that island.\nPyrrhus agreed, and fortified the Sicilian cities with an army of 20,000 infantry and 3,000 cavalry and 20 war elephants, supported by some 200 ships. Initially, Pyrrhus's Sicilian campaign against Carthage was a success, pushing back the Carthaginian forces, and capturing the city-fortress of Eryx, even though he was not able to capture Lilybaeum.\n\nFollowing these losses, Carthage sued for peace, but Pyrrhus refused unless Carthage was willing to renounce its claims on Sicily entirely. According to Plutarch, Pyrrhus set his sights on conquering Carthage itself, and to this end, began outfitting an expedition. However, his ruthless treatment of the Sicilian cities in his preparations for this expedition, and his execution of two Sicilian rulers whom he claimed were plotting against him led to such a rise in animosity towards the Greeks, that Pyrrhus withdrew from Sicily and returned to deal with events occurring in southern Italy.\n\nPyrrhus's campaigns in Italy were inconclusive, and Pyrrhus eventually withdrew to Epirus. For Carthage, this meant a return to the status quo. For Rome, however, the failure of Pyrrhus to defend the colonies of \"Magna Graecia\" meant that Rome absorbed them into its \"sphere of influence\", bringing it closer to complete domination of the Italian peninsula. Rome's domination of Italy, and proof that Rome could pit its military strength successfully against major international powers, would pave the way to the future Rome-Carthage conflicts of the Punic Wars.\n\nWhen Agathocles died in 288 BC, a large company of Italian mercenaries who had previously been held in his service found themselves suddenly without employment. Rather than leave Sicily, they seized the city of Messana. Naming themselves Mamertines (or \"sons of Mars\"), they became a law unto themselves, terrorizing the surrounding countryside.\n\nThe Mamertines became a growing threat to Carthage and Syracuse alike. In 265 BC, Hiero II, former general of Pyrrhus and the new tyrant of Syracuse, took action against them. Faced with a vastly superior force, the Mamertines divided into two factions, one advocating surrender to Carthage, the other preferring to seek aid from Rome. While the Roman Senate debated the best course of action, the Carthaginians eagerly agreed to send a garrison to Messana. A Carthaginian garrison was admitted to the city, and a Carthaginian fleet sailed into the Messanan harbor. However, soon afterwards they began negotiating with Hiero. Alarmed, the Mamertines sent another embassy to Rome asking them to expel the Carthaginians.\n\nHiero's intervention had placed Carthage's military forces directly across the narrow channel of water that separated Sicily from Italy. Moreover, the presence of the Carthaginian fleet gave them effective control over this channel, the Strait of Messina, and demonstrated a clear and present danger to nearby Rome and her interests.\n\nAs a result, the Roman Assembly, although reluctant to ally with a band of mercenaries, sent an expeditionary force to return control of Messana to the Mamertines.\n\nThe Roman attack on the Carthaginian forces at Messana triggered the first of the Punic Wars. Over the course of the next century, these three major conflicts between Rome and Carthage would determine the course of Western civilization. The wars included a Carthaginian invasion led by Hannibal Barca, which nearly prevented the rise of the Roman Empire.\n\nIn 256-255 BC the Romans, under the command of Marcus Atilius Regulus, landed in Africa and after suffering some initial defeats the Carthaginian forces eventually repelled the Roman invasion.\n\nShortly after the First Punic War, Carthage faced a major mercenary revolt which changed the internal political landscape of Carthage (bringing the Barcid family to prominence), and affected Carthage's international standing, as Rome used the events of the war to base a claim by which it seized Sardinia and Corsica.\nThe Second Punic War lasted from 218 to 202 BC and involved combatants in the western and eastern Mediterranean, with the participation of the Berbers on Carthage's side. The war is marked by Hannibal's surprising overland journey and his costly crossing of the Alps, followed by his reinforcement by Gaulish allies and crushing victories over Roman armies in the battle of the Trebia and the giant ambush at Trasimene. Against his skill on the battlefield the Romans deployed the Fabian strategy. But because of the increasing unpopularity of this approach, the Romans resorted to a further major field battle. The result was the crushing Roman defeat at Cannae.\n\nIn consequence many Roman allies went over to Carthage, prolonging the war in Italy for over a decade, during which more Roman armies were destroyed on the battlefield. Despite these setbacks, the Roman forces were more capable in siegecraft than the Carthaginians and recaptured all the major cities that had joined the enemy, as well as defeating a Carthaginian attempt to reinforce Hannibal at the battle of the Metaurus. In the meantime in Iberia, which served as the main source of manpower for the Carthaginian army, a second Roman expedition under Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus Major took New Carthage by assault and ended Carthaginian rule over Iberia in the battle of Ilipa. The final showdown was the battle of Zama in Africa between Scipio Africanus and Hannibal, resulting in the latter's defeat and the imposition of harsh peace conditions on Carthage, which ceased to be a major power and became a Roman client-state.\n\nThe Third Punic War (149 to 146 BC) was the third and last of the Punic Wars. The war was a much smaller engagement than the two previous Punic Wars and primarily consisted of a single main action, the Battle of Carthage, but resulted in the complete destruction of the city of Carthage, the annexation of all remaining Carthaginian territory by Rome, and the death or enslavement of thousands of Carthaginians. The Third Punic War ended Carthage's independent existence.\n\nThe government of Carthage changed dramatically after the total rout of the Carthaginian forces at the battle of Himera on Sicily in 483 BC. The Magonid clan was compelled to compromise and allow representative and even some democratic institutions. Carthage remained to a great extent an oligarchal republic, which relied on a system of checks and balances and ensured a form of public accountability. At the head of the Carthaginian state were now two annually elected, not hereditary, Suffets (thus rendered in Latin by Livy 30.7.5, attested in Punic inscriptions as SPΘM , meaning \"judges\" and obviously related to the Biblical Hebrew ruler title \"Judge\"),\nsimilar to modern day executive presidents. Greek and Roman authors more commonly referred to them as \"kings\", as they were in effect, if not in name, the monarchs of Carthage. SPΘ might originally have been the title of the city's governor, installed by the mother city of Tyre.\n\nIn the historically attested period, the two Suffets were elected annually from among the most wealthy and influential families and ruled collegially, similarly to Roman consuls (and equated with these by Livy). This practice might have descended from the plutocratic oligarchies that limited the Suffet's power in the first Phoenician cities. A range of more junior officials and special commissioners oversaw different aspects of governmental business such as public works, tax-collecting, and the administration of the state treasury.\n\nThe aristocratic families were represented in a supreme council (Roman sources speak of a Carthaginian \"Senate\", and Greek ones of a \"council of Elders\" or a gerousia), which had a wide range of powers; however, it is not known whether the Suffets were elected by this council or by an assembly of the people. Suffets appear to have exercised judicial and executive power, but not military, as generals were chosen by the administration. The final supervision of the Treasury and Foreign Affairs seems to have come under the Council of Elders.\nThere was a body known as the Tribunal of the Hundred and Four, which Aristotle compared to the Spartan ephors. These were judges who acted as a kind of higher constitutional court and oversaw the actions of generals, who could sometimes be sentenced to crucifixion, as well as other officials. Panels of special commissioners, called pentarchies, were appointed from the Tribunal of One Hundred and Four: they appear to have dealt with a variety of affairs of state.\n\nAlthough the city's administration was firmly controlled by oligarchs, democratic elements were to be found as well: Carthage had elected legislators, trade unions and town meetings in the form of a Popular Assembly. Aristotle reported in his \"Politics\" that unless the Suffets and the Council reached a unanimous decision, the Carthaginian popular assembly had the decisive vote — unlike the situation in Greek states with similar constitutions such as Sparta and Crete. Polybius, in his History book 6, also stated that at the time of the Punic Wars, the Carthaginian public held more sway over the government than the people of Rome held over theirs (a development he regarded as evidence of decline). This may have been due to the influence of the Barcid faction.\n\nEratosthenes, head of the Library of Alexandria, noted that the Greeks had been wrong to describe all non-Greeks as barbarians, since the Carthaginians as well as the Romans had a constitution. Aristotle also knew and discussed the Carthaginian constitution in his \"Politics\" (Book II, Chapter 11). During the period between the end of the First Punic War and the end of the Second Punic War, members of the Barcid family dominated in Carthaginian politics. They were given control of the Carthaginian military and all the Carthaginian territories outside of Africa.\n\nAccording to Polybius, Carthage relied heavily, though not exclusively, on foreign mercenaries, especially in overseas warfare. The core of its army was from its own territory in Northwest Africa (ethnic Libyans and Numidians (modern northern Algeria), as well as \"Liby-Phoenicians\"—i.e., Phoenicians proper). These troops were supported by mercenaries from different ethnic groups and geographic locations across the Mediterranean, who fought in their own national units; Celts and Balearics and Iberians were especially common. Later, after the Barcids conquered Iberia (modern Spain and Portugal), Iberians came to form an even greater part of the Carthaginian forces.\n\nCarthage seems to have fielded a formidable cavalry force, especially in its Northwest African homeland; a significant part of it was composed of light Numidian cavalry. Other mounted troops included North African elephants (now extinct), trained for war, which, among other uses, were commonly used for frontal assaults or as anticavalry protection. An army could field up to several hundred of these animals, but on most reported occasions fewer than a hundred were deployed. The riders of these elephants were armed with a spike and hammer to kill the elephants, in case they charged toward their own army. The Carthaginians also fielded troops such as slingers, soldiers armed with straps of cloth used to toss small stones at high speeds.\n\nThe navy of Carthage was one of the largest in the Mediterranean, using serial production to maintain high numbers at moderate cost. The sailors and marines of the Carthaginian navy were predominantly recruited from the Phoenician citizenry, unlike the multiethnic allied and mercenary troops of the Carthaginian armies. The navy offered a stable profession and financial security for its sailors. This helped to contribute to the city's political stability, since the unemployed, debt-ridden poor in other cities were frequently inclined to support revolutionary leaders in the hope of improving their own lot. The reputation of her skilled sailors implies that training of oarsmen and coxswains occurred in peacetime, giving their navy a cutting edge in naval matters.\n\nThe trade of Carthaginian merchantmen was by land across the Sahara and especially by sea throughout the Mediterranean and far into the Atlantic to the tin-rich Cassiterides, and also to Northwest Africa. Evidence exists that at least one Punic expedition, that of Hanno, may have sailed along the West African coast to regions south of the Tropic of Cancer.\n\nPolybius wrote in the sixth book of his history that the Carthaginians were \"more exercised in maritime affairs than any other people.\" Their navy included some 300 to 350 warships. The Romans, who had little experience in naval warfare prior to the First Punic War, managed to finally defeat Carthage with a combination of reverse-engineered, captured Carthaginian ships, recruitment of experienced Greek sailors from the ranks of its conquered cities, the unorthodox corvus device, and their superior numbers in marines and rowers. In the Third Punic War, Polybius describes a tactical innovation of the Carthaginians, augmenting their few triremes with small vessels that carried hooks (to attack the oars) and fire (to attack the hulls). With this new combination, they were able to stand their ground against the numerically superior Romans for a whole day.\n\nCarthaginians spoke Punic, a variety of Phoenician, which was a Semitic language originating in the Carthaginians' original homeland of Phoenicia (present-day Lebanon).\n\nCarthaginian commerce extended by sea throughout the Mediterranean and perhaps into the Atlantic as far as the Canary Islands, and by land across the Sahara desert. According to Aristotle, the Carthaginians and others had treaties of commerce to regulate their exports and imports.\n\nThe empire of Carthage depended heavily on its trade with Tartessos and with other cities of the Iberian peninsula, from which it obtained vast quantities of silver, lead, copper and – even more importantly – tin ore, which was essential for the manufacture of bronze objects by the civilizations of antiquity. Carthaginian trade-relations with the Iberians, and the naval might that enforced Carthage's monopoly on this trade and the Atlantic tin trade, made it the sole significant broker of tin and maker of bronze in its day. Maintaining this monopoly was one of the major sources of power and prosperity for Carthage; Carthaginian merchants strove to keep the location of the tin mines secret. In addition to its role as the sole significant distributor of tin, Carthage's central location in the Mediterranean and control of the waters between Sicily and Tunisia allowed it to control the eastern peoples' supply of tin. Carthage was also the Mediterranean's largest producer of silver, mined in Iberia and on the Northwest African coast; after the tin monopoly, this was one of its most profitable trades. One mine in Iberia provided Hannibal with 300 Roman pounds (3.75 talents) of silver a day.\n\nCarthage's economy began as an extension of that of its parent city, Tyre. Its massive merchant fleet traversed the trade routes mapped out by Tyre, and Carthage inherited from Tyre the trade in the extremely valuable dye Tyrian purple. No evidence of purple dye manufacture has been found at Carthage, but mounds of shells of the murex marine snails from which it derived have been found in excavations of the Punic town which archaeologists call Kerkouane, at Dar Essafi on Cap Bon. Similar mounds of murex have also been found at Djerba on the Gulf of Gabes in Tunisia. Strabo mentions the purple dye-works of Djerba as well as those of the ancient city of Zouchis. The purple dye became one of the most highly valued commodities in the ancient Mediterranean, being worth fifteen to twenty times its weight in gold. In Roman society, where adult males wore the toga as a national garment, the use of the \"toga praetexta\", decorated with a stripe of Tyrian purple about two to three inches in width along its border, was reserved for magistrates and high priests. Broad purple stripes (\"latus clavus\") were reserved for the togas of the senatorial class, while the equestrian class had the right to wear narrow stripes (\"angustus clavus\").\n\nCarthage produced finely embroidered silks, dyed textiles of cotton, linen, and wool, artistic and functional pottery, faience, incense, and perfumes. Its artisans worked expertly with ivory, glassware, and wood, as well as with alabaster, bronze, brass, lead, gold, silver, and precious stones to create a wide array of goods, including mirrors, furniture and cabinetry, beds, bedding, and pillows, jewelry, arms, implements, and household items. It traded in salted Atlantic fish and fish sauce (garum),\nand brokered the manufactured, agricultural, and natural products of almost every Mediterranean people.\n\nIn addition to manufacturing, Carthage practised highly advanced and productive agriculture, using iron ploughs, irrigation, crop rotation, threshing machines, hand-driven rotary mills and horse mills, the latter two which they invented in the late 6th century BC and 375–350 BC, respectively. After the Second Punic War, Hannibal promoted agriculture to help restore Carthage's economy and pay the war indemnity to Rome (10,000 talents or 800,000 Roman pounds of silver), and he was largely successful. When Rome conquered and destroyed Carthage in 146 BC, the Roman Senate decreed that Mago's famous treatise on agriculture be translated into Latin.\n\nCircumstantial evidence suggests that Carthage developed viticulture and wine production before the 4th century BC, and even exported its wines widely, as indicated by distinctive cigar-shaped Carthaginian amphorae found at archaeological sites around the western Mediterranean, although the contents of these vessels have not been conclusively analysed. Carthage also shipped quantities of raisin wine, the \"passum\" of antiquity. Fruits including figs, pears, and pomegranates, as well as nuts, grain, grapes, dates, and olives were grown in the extensive hinterland, while olive oil was processed and exported all over the Mediterranean. Carthage also raised fine horses, the ancestor of today's Barb horses.\n\nCarthage's merchant ships, which surpassed in number even those of the cities of the Levant, visited every major port of the Mediterranean, as well as Britain and the Atlantic coast of Africa. These ships were able to carry over 100 tons of goods.\n\nCarthage also sent caravans into the interior of Africa and Persia. It traded its manufactured and agricultural goods to the coastal and interior peoples of Africa for salt, gold, timber, ivory, ebony, apes, peacocks, skins, and hides. Its merchants invented the practice of sale by auction and used it to trade with the African tribes. In other ports, they tried to establish permanent warehouses or sell their goods in open-air markets. They obtained amber from Scandinavia, and from the Celtiberians, Gauls, and Celts they got amber, tin, silver, and furs. Sardinia and Corsica produced gold and silver for Carthage, and Phoenician settlements on islands such as Malta and the Balearic Islands produced commodities that would be sent back to Carthage for large-scale distribution. The city supplied poorer civilizations with simple products such as pottery, metallic objects, and ornamentations, often displacing the local manufacturing, but brought its best works to wealthier ones such as the Greeks and Etruscans. Carthage traded in almost every commodity wanted by the ancient world, including spices from Arabia, Africa and India, and slaves (the empire of Carthage temporarily held a portion of Europe and sent conquered barbarian warriors into Northern African slavery).\n\nHerodotus wrote an account about 430 BC of Carthaginian trade on the Atlantic coast of Morocco. The Punic explorer and suffete of Carthage called Hanno the Navigator led an expedition to recolonise the Atlantic coast of Morocco that may have ventured as far down the coast of Africa as Senegal and perhaps even beyond. The Greek version of the Periplus of Hanno describes his voyage. Although it is not known just how far his fleet sailed on the African coastline, this short report, dating probably from the 5th or 6th century BC, identifies distinguishing geographic features such as a coastal volcano and an encounter with hairy hominids.\n\nArchaeological finds show evidence of all kinds of exchanges, from the vast quantities of tin needed for a bronze-based metals civilization to all manner of textiles, ceramics and fine metalwork. Before and in between the wars, Carthaginian merchants were in every port in the Mediterranean, trading in harbours with warehouses or from ships beached on the coast.\n\nThe Etruscan language is imperfectly deciphered, but bilingual inscriptions found in archaeological excavations at the sites of Etruscan cities indicate the Phoenicians had trading relations with the Etruscans for centuries. The discovery in 1964 at Pyrgi in Italy of a shrine to Astarte, a popular Phoenician deity, containing three gold tablets with inscriptions in Etruscan and Phoenician, gives tangible proof of the Phoenician presence in the Italian peninsula at the end of the 6th century BC, long before the rise of Rome. These inscriptions imply a political and commercial alliance between Carthage and the Etruscan ruler of Caere that would corroborate Aristotle's statement that the Etruscans and Carthaginians were so close as to form almost one people. The Etruscan city-states were, at times, both commercial partners of Carthage and military allies.\n\nCarthaginian religion was based on Phoenician religion (derived from the faiths of the Levant), a form of polytheism. Many of the gods the Carthaginians worshiped were localized and are now known only under their local names. Carthage also had Jewish communities.\n\nThe supreme divine couple was that of Tanit and Ba'al Hammon. The goddess Astarte seems to have been popular in early times. At the height of its cosmopolitan era, Carthage seems to have hosted a large array of divinities from the neighbouring civilizations of Greece, Egypt and the Etruscan city-states. A pantheon was presided over by the father of the gods, but a goddess was the principal figure in the Phoenician pantheon.\n\nSurviving Punic texts are detailed enough to give a portrait of a very well organized caste of temple priests and acolytes performing different types of functions, for a variety of prices. Priests were clean shaven, unlike most of the population. In the first centuries of the city ritual celebrations included rhythmic dancing, derived from Phoenician traditions.\n\nCippi and stelae of limestone are characteristic monuments of Punic art and religion, found throughout the western Phoenician world in unbroken continuity, both historically and geographically. Most of them were set up over urns containing cremated human remains, placed within open-air sanctuaries. Such sanctuaries constitute striking relics of Punic civilization.\n\nCarthage under the Phoenicians was accused by its adversaries of child sacrifice. Plutarch (20:14,4–6) alleges the practice, as do Tertullian (Apolog.9:2–3), Orosius, Philo and Diodorus Siculus. However, Herodotos and Polybius do not. Sceptics contend that if Carthage's critics were aware of such a practice, however limited, they would have been horrified by it and exaggerated its extent due to their polemical treatment of the Carthaginians. The Hebrew Bible mentions child sacrifice practiced by the Canaanites, ancestors of the Carthaginians. The Greek and Roman critics, according to Charles Picard, objected not to the killing of children but to the religious nature of it. As in both ancient Greece and Rome, inconvenient children were commonly killed by exposure to the elements.\n\nModern archaeology in formerly Punic areas has discovered a number of large cemeteries for children and infants, representing a civic and religious institution for worship and sacrifice called the Tophet by archaeologists. These cemeteries may have been used as graves for stillborn infants or children who died very early. Modern archeological excavations have been interpreted by many archeologists as confirming Plutarch's reports of Carthaginian child sacrifice. An estimated 20,000 urns were deposited between 400 BC and 200 BC in the tophet discovered in the Salammbô neighbourhood of present-day Carthage with the practice continuing until the early years of the Christian period. The urns contained the charred bones of newborns and in some cases the bones of fetuses and two-year-olds. There is a clear correlation between the frequency of cremation and the well-being of the city. In bad times (war, poor harvests) cremations became more frequent, but it is not known why. One explanation for this correlation is the claim that the Carthaginians prayed for divine intervention via child sacrifice; however, bad times would naturally lead to increased child mortality, and consequently, more child burials via cremation.\n\nAccounts of child sacrifice in Carthage report that beginning at the founding of Carthage in about 814 BC, mothers and fathers buried their children who had been sacrificed to Ba`al Hammon and Tanit in the\ntophet. The practice was apparently distasteful even to Carthaginians, and they began to buy children for the purpose of sacrifice or even to raise servant children instead of offering up their own. However, Carthage's priests demanded the youth in times of crisis such as war, drought, or famine. Special ceremonies during extreme crisis saw up to 200 children of the most affluent and powerful families slain and tossed into the burning pyre.\n\nSceptics maintain that the bodies of children found in Carthaginian and Phoenician cemeteries were merely the cremated remains of children who died naturally. Sergio Ribichini has argued that the tophet was \"a child necropolis designed to receive the remains of infants who had died prematurely of sickness or other natural causes, and who for this reason were \"offered\" to specific deities and buried in a place different from the one reserved for the ordinary dead\".\nHowever, recent study of archeological evidence confirms that the Carthaginians practice human sacrifice.\n\nCarthage features in Gustave Flaubert's historical novel \"Salammbô\" (1862). Set around the time of the Mercenary War, it includes a dramatic description of child sacrifice, and the boy Hannibal narrowly avoiding being sacrificed. Giovanni Pastrone's epic silent film \"Cabiria\" is narrowly based on Flaubert's novel.\n\n\"The Young Carthaginian\" (1887) by G. A. Henty is a boys' adventure novel told from the perspective of Malchus, a fictional teenage lieutenant of Hannibal during the Second Punic War.\n\nIn \"The Dead Past\", a science fiction short story by Isaac Asimov, a leading character is a historian studying ancient times who is trying to disprove the allegation that the Carthaginians carried out child sacrifice.\n\n\"The Purple Quest\" by Frank G. Slaughter is about the founding of Carthage.\n\n\"Die Sterwende Stad\" (The Dying City) is a novel written in Afrikaans by Antonie P. Roux and published in 1956. It is a fictional account of life in Carthage and included the defeat of Hannibal by Scipio Africanus at the Battle of Zama. For several years it was prescribed reading for South African year 11 and 12 high school students studying the Afrikaans language.\n\n\"Delenda Est\", a short story in Poul Anderson's Time Patrol series, is an alternate history where Hannibal won the Second Punic War, and Carthage exists in the 20th century.\n\nA duology by John Maddox Roberts, comprising \"Hannibal's Children\" (2002) and \"The Seven Hills\" (2005), is set in an alternate history where Hannibal defeated Rome in the Second Punic War, and Carthage is still a major Mediterranean power in 100 BC.\n\nMary Gentle used an alternate history version of Carthage as a setting in her novels \"\" and \"Ilario, A Story of the First History\". In these books, Carthage is dominated by Germanic tribes, and the premise is that the Visigoths conquered Carthage and set up a huge empire that repelled the Muslim conquest. In these novels, titles such as \"lord-amir\" and \"scientist-magus\" indicate a fusion of European and Northwest African cultures, and Arian Christianity is the state religion.\n\nStephen Baxter also features Carthage in his alternate history Northland trilogy; in Baxter's narrative it is Carthage that prevails and subjugates Rome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6119378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6119378", "title": "Aro History", "text": "Aro History\n\nAro History starts from Ibibio migration to the present Arochukwu area.\n\nBefore Igbo arrival in the Aro territory, a Semi-Bantu group of the Ibibio arrived around 300 AD from the Benue valley. They mainly inhabited the area now known as Southeastern Nigeria. Prominent settlements were Ibom and Obong Okon Ita. These hunters and farmers perhaps lived peacefully until foreign settlers invaded.\n\nThe Igbo migration led by Eze Agwu clan from Abiriba among the Ibibio in the Aro territory started around the 17th century. Tensions escalated between the Eze Agwu group led by Agwu Inobia and Obong Okon Ita kingdom led by Akpan Okon resulting in the Aro-Ibibio Wars. Neither group had a victorious position in the war. Eze Agwu asked Priest Nnachi of the Edda clan near Afikpo for help. The alliance also supported prince Kakpokpo Okon's coup against his brother Akpan Okon. The war escalated and Nnachi called on Eastern Cross River allies for assistance.\n\nOsim and Akuma Nnubi were Akpa merchant princes from the Akamkpa area. They led Akpa forces into the Aro territory to assist their Igbo allies to victory. However, this came at the cost of Osim losing his life at the start of the 18th century. With the Akpas and Igbos being victorious, the Arochukwu kingdom was founded with Akuma as its first king or EzeAro. After Akuma died, the Igbo took over the throne starting with Nnachi's son Oke Nnachi in 1720. Many changes occurred as Arochukwu expanded into 19 city-states due to the increasing population and Aro colonies were forming throughout the area now known as Southern Nigeria.\n\nBy the mid-18th century, there were mass migrations of several Aro business families all over Eastern Nigeria and surrounding areas. This migration, influence of their god Ibini Ukpabi through priests, and their military power supported by alliances with several related neighboring Igbo and eastern Cross River militarized states (particularly Ohafia, Abam, Abiriba, Afikpo, Ekoi, etc.) quickly established the Aro Confederacy as a regional economic power.\n\nAro activities helped coastal Niger Delta city-states become important centers for the export of palm oil and slaves. Such city-states included Opobo, Bonny, Brass, Calabar, as well as other slave trading city-states controlled by the Ijaw, Efik, and Igbo. The Aros formed a strong trading network, colonies, and incorporated hundreds of communities that formed into powerful kingdoms. The Ajalli, Arondizuogu, and Bende Kingdoms were the most powerful Aro states in the Confederacy after Arochukwu. Some were founded and named after Commanders and Chiefs like Izuogu Mgbokpo and Iheme whom led Aro forces to conquer Ikpa Ora and founded Arondizuogu. Later Aro commanders such as Okoro Idozuka also of Arondizuogu expanded the state's borders through warfare in the start of the 19th century. The Aro Confederacy's power, however, was mostly derived from its economic and religious position. With European colonists on their way at the end of the 19th century, things changed.\n\nBritish colonialism in the late 19th century turned Anglo-Aro relations sour. Aro leaders knew that Christianity, colonialism, and end of their monopoly would destroy Aro economic rule. Also the British felt that repeated Aro attacks rendered outright war inescapable. They made plans for war in 1899. The conflict had both religious and economic causes. Aro traders and the Royal Niger Company, had their own issues. An Aro invasion of Obegu in 1901 started the Anglo-Aro War. In 1902, following a direct attack on Arochukwu and months of fighting, the British were victorious. The Aro Confederacy's power was shattered, making it easier for the British to take over the Eastern Nigerian region although resistance in the area was far from over. Although Aro dominance crumbled in March 1902, many Aros took part in later resistances against the British in the region such as Afikpo (1902–1903), Ezza (1905), and other areas where the Aro had a particularly significant presence.\n\nWhen Nigeria won independence from Great Britain in 1960, ethnic tensions rose between the regions resulting in the Nigerian Civil War in 1967-1970. After the war, the Aros and the rest of the Igbo People suffered discrimination from other Nigerians. Aro culture suffered. However, they are currently efforts to unite Aro people and revive their culture.\n\n(https://archive.is/20041205014430/http://eabuja.com/index.html)\n"}
{"id": "2514785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514785", "title": "Asian Century", "text": "Asian Century\n\nThe Asian Century is the projected 21st-century dominance of Asian politics and culture, assuming certain demographic and economic trends persist. The concept of Asian Century parallels the characterization of the 19th century as Britain's Imperial Century, and the 20th century as the American Century.\n\nA 2011 study by the Asian Development Bank found that an additional 3 billion Asians could enjoy living standards similar to those in Europe today, and the region could account for over half of global output by the middle of this century. It warned, however, that the Asian Century is not preordained.\n\nThe growing importance and emphasis of unity in Asia, as well as maturing and progressive relationships among countries in the region further solidify the creation of the 21st Asian Century.\n\nIn 1924, Karl Haushofer used the term \"Pacific age,\" envisaging the growth of Japan, China and India: \"A giant space is expanding before our eyes with forces pouring into it which ... await the dawn of the Pacific age, the successor of the Atlantic age, the over-age Mediterranean and European era.\" The phrase \"Asian Century\" arose in the mid to late 1980s, and is attributed to a 1988 meeting with People's Republic of China (PRC) leader Deng Xiaoping and Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in which Deng said that '[i]n recent years people have been saying that the next century will be the century of Asia and the Pacific, as if that were sure to be the case. I disagree with this view.' Prior to this, it made an appearance in a 1985 US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations hearing. It has been subsequently reaffirmed by Asian political leaders, and is now a popularly used term in the media.\n\nAsia's robust economic performance over the three decades preceding 2010, compared to that in the rest of the world, made perhaps the strongest case yet for the possibility of an Asian Century. Although this difference in economic performance had been recognized for some time, specific individual setbacks (e.g., the 1997 Asian financial crisis) tended to hide the broad sweep and general tendency. By the early 21st century, however, a strong case could be made that this stronger Asian performance was not just sustainable but held a force and magnitude that could significantly alter the distribution of power on the planet. Coming in its wake, global leadership in a range of significant areas—international diplomacy, military strength, technology, and soft power—might also, as a consequence, be assumed by one or more of Asia's nation states.\n\nAmong many scholars have provided factors that have contributed to the significant Asian development, Kishore Mahbubani provides seven pillars that rendered the Asian countries to excel and provided themselves with the possibility to become compatible with the Western counterparts. The seven pillars include: free-market economics, science and technology, meritocracy, pragmatism, culture of peace, rule of law and education.\n\nPopulation growth in Asia is expected to continue through at least the first half of the 21st century, though it has slowed significantly since the late 20th century. At four billion people in the beginning of the 21st century, the Asian population is predicted to grow to more than five billion by 2050. While its percent of the world population is not expected to greatly change, North American and European shares of the global population are expected to decline.\n\nThe major driver is continued productivity growth in Asia, particularly in China and India, as living standards rise. Even without completely converging with European or North American living standards, Asia's might produce half of global GDP by 2050. This is a large shift compared to the immediate post-cold war, when North America and Europe combined produced half of global GDP. A 2011 study by the Asian Development Bank stated that: \"By nearly doubling its share of global gross domestic product (GDP) to 52 percent by 2050, Asia would regain the dominant economic position it held some 300 years ago, before the industrial revolution.\n\nThe notion of the Asian Century assumes that Asian economies can maintain their momentum for another 40 years, adapt to shifting global economic and technological environment, and continually recreate comparative advantages. In this scenario, according to 2011 modelling by the Asian Development Bank Asia's GDP would increase from $17 trillion in 2010 to $174 trillion in 2050, or half of global GDP. In the same study, the Asian Development Bank estimates that seven economies would lead Asia's powerhouse growth; under the Asian Century scenario, the region would have no poor countries, compared with eight in 2011.\n\nSince China's economic reforms in the late 1970s (in farm privatization) and early 1990s (in most cities), the Chinese economy has enjoyed three decades of economic growth rates between 8 and 10%. The Indian economy began a similar albeit slower ascent at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s, and has averaged around 4% during this period, though growing slightly over 8% in 2005, and hitting 9.2% in 2006 before slowing to 6% in 2009, then reaching 8.9% in 2010. A Goldman Sachs report suggests that the Indian economy could surpass the US economy by 2043, but India \"will remain a low-income country for several decades, with per capita incomes well below its other BRIC peers. If India fulfills its growth potential, it can become a motor for the world economy, and a key contributor to generating spending growth\".\n\nBoth of these developments involved policy of a degree of managed liberalisation of the economy as well as a turning outwards of the economy towards globalization (both exports and attracting inward investment). The magnitude of this liberalisation and globalisation is still subject to debate. They were part of conscious decisions by key political leaders, especially in India and the PRC. Also, the populations of the two countries offer a potential market of over two and a quarter billion. The development of the internal consumer market in these two countries has been a major basis for economic development. This has enabled much higher national growth rates for China and India in comparison to Japan, the EU and even the US. The international cost advantage on goods and services, based on cheaper labor costs, has enabled these two countries to exert a global competitive pressure.\n\nThe term Easternization has been used to refer to the spread of oriental (mainly Japanese) management techniques to the West.\n\nThe trend for greater Asian economic dominance has also been based on the extrapolations of recent historic economic trends. Goldman Sachs, in its BRIC economic forecast, highlighted the trend towards mainland China becoming the largest and India the second largest economies by the year 2050 in terms of GDP. The report also predicted the type of industry that each nation would dominate, leading some to deem mainland China 'the industrial workshop of the world' and India 'one of the great service societies'. As of 2009, the majority of the countries that are considered newly industrialized are in Asia.\n\nBy 2050, the East Asian and South Asian economies will have increased by over 20 times. With that comes a rise in Human Development Index, the index used to measure the standards of living. India's HDI will approach .8. East Asia's would approach .94 or fairly close to the living standards of the western nations such as the EU and the US. This would mean that it would be rather difficult to determine the difference in wealth of the two. Because of East Asian and Indian populations, their economy would be very large, and if current trends continue, India's long-term population could approach double that of China. East Asia could surpass all western nations' combined economies as early as 2030. South Asia could soon follow if the hundreds of millions in poverty continue to be lifted into middle class.\n\nIt is projected that the most groundbreaking construction projects will take place in Asia within the approaching years. As a symbol of economic power, supertall skyscrapers have been erected in Asia, and more projects are currently being conceived and begun in Asia than in any other region of the world. Completed projects include: the Petronas Towers of Kuala Lumpur, the Shanghai World Financial Center, International Finance Centre in Hong Kong, Taipei 101 in Taiwan, and the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, UAE. Future buildings promise to be taller, like the Shanghai Tower and the India Tower.\n\nCulturally, the Asian century is symbolized by Indian genre films (Bollywood, Parallel Cinema), Hong Kong genre films (martial arts films, Hong Kong action cinema), Japanese animation, and the Korean Wave. The awareness of Asian cultures may be a part of a much more culturally aware world, as proposed in the Clash of Civilizations thesis. Equally, the affirmation of Asian cultures affects the identity politics of Asians in Asia and outside in the Asian diasporas.\n\nThe Gross National Cool of Japan is soaring; Japanese cultural products, including TV shows, are undoubtedly \"in\" among American audiences and have been for years. About 2.3 million people studied the language worldwide in 2003: 900,000 South Koreans, 389,000 Chinese, 381,000 Australians, and 140,000 Americans study Japanese in lower and higher educational institutions.\n\nFeng shui books topped the nonfiction best-seller lists and feng shui schools have multiplied. Major banks and multinational corporations employ feng shui consultants to advise them on the organization of their offices. There has been a readiness to supplement Eastern forms of medicine, therapy, and massage and reject traditional Western medicine in favor of techniques, such as acupressure and acupuncture. Practices such as moxibustion and shiatsu enjoy enormous popularity in the West. So do virtually all the Eastern martial arts, such as kung fu, judo, karate, aikido, taekwondo, kendo, jujitsu, tai chi, qigong, ba gua, and xing yi, with their many associated schools and subforms.\n\nAsian cuisine is quite popular in the West due to Asian immigration and subsequent interest from non-Asians into Asian ingredients and food. Even small towns in Britain, Canada, Scandinavia, or the United States generally have at least one Indian or Chinese restaurant. Restaurants serving pan-Asian and Asian-inspired cuisine have also opened across North America, Australia and other parts of the world. P.F. Chang's China Bistro and Pei Wei Asian Diner which serve Asian and Asian-inspired food is found across the United States and in regards for the former, in other parts of the world as well. Asian Beer Cafe in Melbourne serves a selection of Asian content inspired by the cuisines of East Asia, Southeast Asia and India. Asian-inspired food products have also been launched including from noodle brand, Maggi. In Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and the UK an Asian-inspired range of noodles known as \"Maggi Fusian\" and a long running range in Germany and Austria known as, \"Maggi Magic Asia\" includes a range of noodles inspired by food dishes found in China, Japan, Korea, India, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand.\n\nYoga has gained popularity outside India and the rest of Asia and has entered mainstream culture in the Western world.\n\nThough the use of English continues to spread, Asian languages are becoming more popular to teach and study outside the continent. The study of Chinese has recently gained greater attention in the United States, owing to a growing belief in the economic advantages of knowing it. It is being encouraged through the PRC's support of Confucius Institutes, which have opened in numerous nations to teach the Chinese language and culture.\n\nChinese has been rated as the second most used language on the internet with nearly a quarter speaking Chinese, Japanese came as fourth, and Korean as the tenth as of 2010. According to the CIA, China hosted the most users, Japan the third, India the fourth, and South Korea as the tenth as of 2008.\n\nIndia has the largest film industry in the world, and Indian Film Industry produces more films than Nollywood and Hollywood.\n\nIn the early years of the twentieth century very few people were vegetarians. The figure given for the United Kingdom during World War 2 was 100,000 out of a population of some 50 million – around 0.2 percent of the total. By the 1990s the figure was estimated as between 4.2 percent and 11 percent of the British population and rising rapidly. As Porritt and Winner observe, as recently as the 1960s and early '70s, \"being a vegetarian was considered distinctively odd,\" but \"it is now both respectable and common place.\"\n\nThe spread of the Korean wave, particularly K-pop and Korean dramas, outside Asia has led to the establishment of services to sustain this demand. Viki and DramaFever are examples of services providing Korean dramas to international viewers alongside other Asian content. SBS PopAsia and Asian Pop Radio are two radio-related music services propagating the proliferation of K-pop throughout Australia. Apart from K-pop, Asian Pop Radio is also devoted to other Asian pop music originating from Indonesia, Thailand, Japan, Malaysia and Singapore. Similarly, SBS PopAsia focuses on other East Asian pop music from China and Japan and to some extent Southeast Asian pop music in conjunction with K-pop. The rising popularity of Asian-related content has resulted in \"SBS PopAsia\" becoming a brand name for SBS content such as TV shows and news originating from Asia such as China, South Korea, Japan and India.\n\nThe growing awareness and popularity of Eastern culture and philosophies in the West has led to Eastern cultural objects being sold in these countries. The most well known being statues of the Buddha which range from statues sold for the garden to items sold for the house. Statues of Hindu gods such as Ganesha and East Asian iconography such as the Yin and yang are also sold in many stores in Western countries. Ishka a chain store in Australia sells many Asian-origin content particularly from India. The selling of Eastern cultural objects has however been met by criticism, with some saying many who buy these items do not understand the significance of them and that it is a form of Orientalism.\n\nEmojis which originated in Japan and later spread to other parts of Asia have now become mainstream in Western societies. Eastern emoticons particularly Japanese emoticons known as \"kaomoji\" have also become popular in the West in conjunction with Western-origin emoticons, resulting in a blend of the two. A 2006 study showed North American instant messaging users rated the importance of using emoticons much lower than Indian and East Asian users. However, by the 2010s, a 2013 questionnaire showed 74% of people in the US responded positively to the question, “Do you use stickers or emoji in messaging apps?” Characters used as emoticons that are used in certain Asian languages such as Kannada, an Indian language, has spread to and become popular to use on Western websites after initially being used on Japanese sites such as 2channel. Asian-origin characters that have become popular to use on Western websites include ಠ and ಥ (both of Kannada origin), ง (Thai origin), 益 (Mandarin origin), ㅅ (Korean origin) and ヮ and ツ (both of Japanese origin), for example, which are all used with other symbols to create emoticons.\n\nAs recently as the 1950s, Crane Brinton, the distinguished historian of ideas, could dismiss \"modern groups that appeal to Eastern wisdom\" as being in effect \"sectarian\", \"marginal\", and \"outside the main current of Western thought and feeling\". Yet some Westerners have converted to Eastern religions or at least have shown an interest in them. An example is Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, whom the Beatles followed, first to Bangor in Wales in 1967, and subsequently to India to study Transcendental Meditation in 1968. The Dalai Lama, whose book The Art of Happiness became a best-seller, can attract huge crowds in New York's Central Park or London's Wembley Stadium.\n\nBuddhism in some countries is the second biggest religion.\nFWBO is one of the biggest and fastest-growing Buddhist organizations in the West.\n\nBelief in reincarnation has never been a part of official Christian or Jewish teaching, or at least, in Christianity, it has been a formal heresy since it was rejected by a narrow margin at the Second Council of Constantinople in AD 553. However nearly all polling in Western countries reveals significant levels of this belief. \"Puzzled People\" undertaken in the 1940s suggested that only 4 percent of people in Britain believed in reincarnation. Geoffrey Gorer's survey, carried out a few years later, arrived at 5 percent (1955, p. 262). However, this figure had reached 18 percent by 1967 (Gallup, 1993), only to increase further to a sizable 29 percent by 1979, a good six-fold increase on the earlier \"Puzzled People\" figure. Eileen Barker has reported that around one-fifth of Europeans now say that they believe in reincarnation.\n\nKarma, which has its roots in ancient India and is a key concept in Hinduism, Buddhism and other Eastern religions, has entered the cultural conscience of many in the Western world. John Lennon's 1970 single, \"Instant Karma!\" is credited towards the popularization of \"karma\" in the Western world and is now a widely known and popular concept today giving rise to catchphrases and memes and figuring in other forms of Western popular culture.\n\nMindfulness and Buddhist meditation, both very popular in Asia, have both been gaining popularity in the West.\n\nThe global political position of China and to a lesser extent India has risen in international bodies and amongst the world powers, leading the United States and European Union to become more active in the process of engagement with these two countries. China is also a permanent member of the UN Security Council. Although India is not a permanent member, it is possible that it will become one or at the least gain a more influential position. Japan is also attempting to become a permanent member, though the attempts of both are opposed by other Asian countries (i.e. India's bid is opposed by Pakistan; Japan's bid is opposed by China, South Korea, North Korea).\n\nAn Asian regional bloc may be further developed in the 21st century around ASEAN and other bodies on the basis of free trade agreements. However, there is some political concern amongst the national leaderships of different Asian countries about PRC's hegemonic ambitions in the region. Another new organization, the East Asian Summit, could also possibly create an EU-like trade zone.\n\nThe Russian Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov encouraged the idea of a triple alliance between Russia, the PRC and India first formulated by Indian strategist Madhav Das Nalapat in 1983, and supported the idea of a multipolar world. With the November 2006 visit of Hu Jintao to India, the idea seems to be gaining some momentum.\n\nThe 2007 World Bank Report on globalization notes that \"rising education levels were also important, boosting Asian growth on average by 0.75 to 2 percentage points.\" The rapid expansion of human capital through quality education throughout Asia has played a significant role in experiencing \"higher life expectancy and economic growth, and even to the quality of institutions and whether societies will make the transition into modern democracies\".\n\nThe Asian countries with the most promising growth prospects are: Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Mongolia, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka and Vietnam. Developing Asia is projected to be the fastest growing region until 2050, driven by population and income growth: 9 of 11 3G countries came from Asia. Vietnam has the highest Global Growth Generators Index, China is second with 0.81, followed by India's 0.71.\n\nBased on a report from the HSBC Trade Confidence Index (TCI) and HSBC Trade Forecast, there are 4 countries with significant trade volume growth – Egypt, India, Vietnam and Indonesia – with growth is projected to reach at least 7.3 percent per year until 2025\n\nThe Next Eleven (known also by the numeronym N-11) are the eleven countries – Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Turkey, South Korea, and Vietnam – identified by Goldman Sachs investment bank and economist Jim O'Neill in a research paper as having a high potential of becoming, along with the BRICs/BRICS, the world's largest economies in the 21st century. The bank chose these states, all with promising outlooks for investment and future growth, on 12 December 2005. At the end of 2011, the four major countries (Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey) also known as MINT, made up 73 percent of all Next Eleven GDP. BRIC GDP was $13.5 trillion, while MIKT GDP at almost 30 percent of that: $3.9 trillion.\n\nAsia's growth is not guaranteed. Its leaders will have to manage multiple risks and challenges, particularly:\n\n\nDespite forecasts that predict the rising economic and political strength of Asia, the idea of an Asian Century has faced criticism. This has included the possibility that the continuing high rate of growth could lead to revolution, economic slumps, and environmental problems, especially in mainland China. Some believe that the 21st century will be multipolar, and no one country or continent will have such a concentration of influence. However some proponents of the Asian Century respond that since the two most populous countries (China and India) are in Asia then it's only natural that they will play a bigger role in the world's affairs than smaller countries and thus it won't be a multipolar century. Finally, although the British Empire was a superpower during the nineteenth century, controlling nearly a quarter of the world's area and population, during the 20th century there was still a balance of political power with the British and other European colonial empires from 1900 until 1945, and with the US and the Soviet Union from 1945 until 1991.\n\n\n\nSpeeches and Political Statements\nForecasts\nCriticism\n"}
{"id": "8581901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8581901", "title": "BBC Romanian", "text": "BBC Romanian\n\nBBC Romanian was the Romanian branch of the BBC World Service (Radio) for Romania and Moldova. Since 2004, it broadcast on its own frequency (only in Bucharest - 88 FM, Chişinău - 97,2 FM, Timişoara - 93,9 FM and Constanţa - 96,9 FM); until then its signal was re-broadcast by local radio stations, partners of BBC Romanian.\n\nOn 25 June 2008, the BBC announced that it would close its Romanian language service after 69 years of broadcasting, effective 1 August 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32580631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32580631", "title": "Battle of Cerro Muriano", "text": "Battle of Cerro Muriano\n\nThe Battle of Cerro Muriano took place during the Spanish Civil War in 1936.\n\nCerro Muriano is a village currently within the municipal terms of Córdoba and Obejo in the Province of Córdoba.\n\nThe battle followed the August Córdoba offensive and lasted two days, 5 and 6 September 1936. After a 36-hour siege the \"Regulares\" and the Spanish Legion troops overran the Republican positions of the \"Columna Miaja\" leaving many dead.\n\nThe battle is famous owing to the picture of a \"falling militiaman\" taken by Robert Capa, a picture that sought to represent the tragic fate of the Spanish Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "46882273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46882273", "title": "Bosnia and Herzegovina at the 2015 European Games", "text": "Bosnia and Herzegovina at the 2015 European Games\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina competed at the 2015 European Games, in Baku, Azerbaijan from 12 to 28 June 2015.\n"}
{"id": "3268061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3268061", "title": "Bright House Networks", "text": "Bright House Networks\n\nBright House Networks, LLC was an American telecom company. Prior to its purchase by Charter Communications, it was the tenth-largest multichannel video service provider and the 6th largest cable internet provider (based on coverage) in the United States. The company served more than 2.2 million customers.\n\nBright House Networks' primary service offerings included digital television, high-speed internet, home security and automation and voice services.\n\nBright House Networks also owned and operated two 24-hour local news operations; Central Florida News 13 serving the Orlando area, and Bay News 9 serving the Tampa Bay area.\n\nPrior to 1994, some of the systems were fully owned by Advance/Newhouse under the names Vision Cable and Cable Vision (no relation to Cablevision in the New York City metro area), while in other areas, Bright House Networks is the successor to TelePrompTer Cable TV, Group W Cable, Strategic Cable, Paragon Cable, Shaw Communications and the Tampa Bay/Orlando Time Warner Communications systems in Florida.\n\nAll of the systems that eventually came to be owned by Bright House Networks were previously owned by the Time Warner Entertainment–Advance/Newhouse Partnership. Bright House Networks, LLC was formerly known as TWEAN Subsidiary, LLC and changed its name to Bright House Networks, LLC in April 1, 2003. Under a deal struck in 2003, Advance/Newhouse took direct management and operational responsibility for a portion of the partnership cable systems roughly equal to their equity. Bright House Networks offers video, high-speed data, home security and automation and voice services. In addition, Bright House Networks operated two regional local news channels – Bay News 9 in the Tampa Bay market, and News 13 in the Orlando market. Bright House Networks had an extensive fiber optic network in the Florida area and used it to provide commercial services including dedicated Internet access, VPN services, and private network transport as well as telecom facilities such as SIP trunking and PRI service.\n\nOn March 31, 2015, Charter Communications announced it would acquire Bright House in a $10.4 billion deal, contingent on Time Warner Cable waiving its right of first refusal to acquire the latter company, which was not expected to be exercised given the then-pending Comcast–Time Warner Cable merger. On May 26, 2015, after Comcast had abandoned its plans to buy Time Warner Cable, Charter announced its own plans to merge with TWC, as well as a renegotiated arrangement for the purchase of Bright House. If both deals are completed, Advance/Newhouse will gain a stake of roughly 14 percent in the combined company. On April 25, 2016 regulators approved both mergers. As a result of the deal, the Bright House and Time Warner Cable brands will be phased out and eliminated completely, with both services amalgamated under Charter's Spectrum brand over the coming months.\n\nThe company provided service to areas including Indianapolis, Central Florida (Orlando / Daytona Beach areas), Tampa/Lakeland area, Birmingham–Hoover area, west suburban Detroit, and Bakersfield. Most of its former business was concentrated in Central Florida.\n\nBright House Networks owns the naming rights to UCF's Bright House Networks Stadium (now Spectrum Stadium) in Orlando, Florida; Bright House Field (now Spectrum Field) in Clearwater, Florida, the spring training home of the Phillies; and the Bright House Networks Amphitheatre in Bakersfield, California. They formerly served as title sponsor of the Futures Tour Bright House Networks Open golf tournament, held in Lakeland, Florida.\n\nWhen Bright House Networks was separate from Time Warner Cable, most of its carriage deals were still negotiated on its behalf by Time Warner Cable. Thus, Bright House customers were affected whenever there were carriage disputes between TWC and a content provider, which has happened several times.\n\n"}
{"id": "18003085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18003085", "title": "Bösentrift", "text": "Bösentrift\n\nThe Bösentrift is a mountain of the Pennine Alps, overlooking Täsch and Zermatt in the canton of Valais. It lies north of the Oberrothorn.\n\n"}
{"id": "27161203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27161203", "title": "CCTV-9", "text": "CCTV-9\n\nCCTV-9 is a television channel operated by Chinese state broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV), broadcasting documentaries in Mandarin Chinese. It shared the name with CCTV's English language documentary channel until 31 December 2016, when the latter was renamed CGTN Documentary.\n"}
{"id": "1001415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1001415", "title": "Capitol Theatre, Dublin", "text": "Capitol Theatre, Dublin\n\nThe Capitol Theatre, located just off O'Connell Street, Dublin, began life on 10 August 1920 as the \"La Scala Theatre and Opera House\". Despite its name, the La Scala was a cinema. Paramount Pictures took over the lease on the building and renamed it the Capitol. Under new management, the Capitol ran a live show every week to accompany the current film. Well-known Irish acts to appear in these shows included Peggy Dell, Martin Crosbie, brother of Paddy Crosbie, creator of the School Around the Corner, and Sean Mooney. The last stage show was on 29 October 1953. The Capitol continued as a cinema until 1972. It was demolished along with the adjacent Metropole Cinema and a branch of the department store chain British Home Stores was built on the site. This in turn closed and was replaced by a branch of the Irish Penneys chain.\n\n"}
{"id": "42573199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42573199", "title": "Chebakia", "text": "Chebakia\n\nThe Chebakia is a pastry of Moroccan origin made of strips of dough rolled to resemble a rose, deep-fried until golden, then coated with a syrup made of honey and rosewater and sprinkled with sesame.\n\nSimilar pastries include the Cartellate and the Fazuelos, though the latter is constructed differently, and is thinner and less dense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4590671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4590671", "title": "Christian Democrat Organization of America", "text": "Christian Democrat Organization of America\n\nThe Christian Democrat Organization of America (ODCA, from Spanish: \"Organización Demócrata Cristiana de América\") is an international organization made up of political parties that advocate the principles of Christian Democracy in their respective countries. Each of the member parties is different, sometimes having differing views of Christian Democracy itself. Some of the member parties are in government in their country, others are in coalition government, and others are not in government.\n\nCurrently there are 26 member political parties in 21 different countries with a constituency representing 30% of all registered voters in Latin America and 10% of the entire population of the region.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27915445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27915445", "title": "Conference of the Committee on Disarmament", "text": "Conference of the Committee on Disarmament\n\nThe Conference of the Committee on Disarmament was a United Nations disarmament committee authorized by a General Assembly resolution. It began work in 1969 as the successor to the Eighteen Nation Committee on Disarmament.\n\nThe Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (CCD) succeeded the Eighteen Nation Committee Disarmament (ENCD) as the U.N.'s disarmament committee in 1969. In addition to the name change General Assembly Resolution 2602(XXIV) expanded the membership from the ENDC's 18 to the new CCD's 26. The CCD was enlarged again by the General Assembly from 26 to 31 nations in 1975. Throughout the process of UN disarmament negotiations, including through its various name changes, the CCD received instructions from and reported to the UN General Assembly. The CCD, like its two predecessors was chaired by the United States and Soviet Union.\n\nThe CCD included the original members of the Ten Nation Committee on Disarmament (TNCD) as well as the eight additional member nations of the ENCD. The ENCD actually only included the participation of seventeen nations, as France did not participate in an official capacity. However, they were involved in an unofficial role in consultations with the other Western representatives. While France was an original member of the ENCD, it again chose not to participate in the negotiations or sessions of the CCD.\n\nOriginal members of TNCD: (Western Bloc) - Canada, France, Great Britain, Italy, United States. (Eastern Bloc) - Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania, Soviet Union.\n\nNations added to ENCD: Brazil, Burma, Ethiopia, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Sweden, United Arab Republic (UAR).\n\nNations added to CCD (1969): Argentina, Morocco, Japan, Hungary, Mongolia, Netherlands, Pakistan, Yugoslavia.\n\nNations added to the CCD (1975): Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany), German Democratic Republic, Peru, Iran, Zaire.\n\nThe CCD (1969–1979) was one of several predecessors to the current UN disarmament organization, the Conference on Disarmament (CD). The ENCD (1962–69) followed the short-lived Ten Nation Committee on Disarmament (1960), and was succeeded by the CCD (1969–78) until the CD was formed in 1979.\n\nDiscussions in the CCD played a role in the interpretation of the Geneva Protocol. The United States had argued that the Protocol did not apply to non-toxic gases and herbicides, prompting the UN Secretary-General to request a \"clear affirmation\" that the Protocol prohibited the use of all chemical and biological agents. Most member nations of the CCD agreed that it did and discussions ultimately led to a UN General Assembly resolution affirming that the use of all chemical and biological agents in war was against international law. The resolution eventually passed 80–3; the U.S. voted \"no\" and 36 nations abstained.\n\n"}
{"id": "11481614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11481614", "title": "Criminal Code of Belarus", "text": "Criminal Code of Belarus\n\nThe Criminal Code of the Republic of Belarus contains the fundamental laws to announce what is considered illegal to perform inside Belarus. Passed in 1999, several of these laws were carried over from laws passed in 1960 as the Byelorussian SSR. In the 1999 edition, the Criminal code contains passages of crimes that can be issued capital punishment upon sentencing.\n"}
{"id": "21919806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21919806", "title": "Dibba Airport", "text": "Dibba Airport\n\nDibba Airport is an unpaved airfield / airstrip located in Dibba Al-Baya, the Omani part of Dibba.\n"}
{"id": "7727955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727955", "title": "Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs", "text": "Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs\n\nThe Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. The Enterprise Directorate-General works on creating an environment in which European firms can thrive. The improvement of the business environment is to lead to a growth in productivity and subsequently create the jobs and wealth necessary to achieve the objectives set by the European Council in Lisbon in March 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7662774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7662774", "title": "Dnevni list", "text": "Dnevni list\n\nDnevni list () is a popular daily newspaper in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Its headquarters is in Mostar. The paper is especially popular among the nation of the Croats. The paper has a pro-Croats stance.\n"}
{"id": "46275215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46275215", "title": "Druzhba Metro Station", "text": "Druzhba Metro Station\n\nDruzhba Metro Station () is a station on the Sofia Metro in Bulgaria. It started operation on April 2, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21338646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21338646", "title": "Eesti Aeg", "text": "Eesti Aeg\n\nEesti Aeg () was a newspaper in the Republic of Estonia, published as a weekly broadsheet newspaper in 1991–1995 and four issues as a monthly newsmagazine in 1996. One of the first truly independent (of the Soviet ruling clique influences) newspapers, it was set up in 1991 after a mass exodus of staff from Eesti Ekspress after its Soviet parent company, Cross Development FSP, fired Hans H. Luik.\n\nThe newspaper was known for its courageous approach to journalism, for example by gathering fame through publishing a list of KGB collaborationist in Estonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "35169850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35169850", "title": "Faculty of Architecture, Ljubljana", "text": "Faculty of Architecture, Ljubljana\n\nFaculty of Architecture (also known as Ljubljana School of Architecture), established in 1919 in Ljubljana, is a faculty with a long tradition and with notable architects including Jože Plečnik, Max Fabiani, and Edvard Ravnikar. It is still considered one of the best Central European schools of architecture, offering academic education in the fields of architecture, interior design, urban design, graphic design, product design, as well as professional research in the areas.\n\nEnrolment entails an entrance exam. Each year 135 regular and 45 part-time students are accepted. There are almost 700 students enrolled in the graduate course.\n\nThe teaching and associate staff includes some 65 employees.\n\nSince the year 2000, within students exchange Erasmus programmes there are annually 50 incoming (each year increasing) and around 40 outgoing students (both exchanges and placements).\n\nIn the 1950s, Jože Plečnik added the front gate to the building after the school moved to the present location.\n\n"}
{"id": "53757860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53757860", "title": "Flag of Houthis", "text": "Flag of Houthis\n\nThe flag (or emblem) of the Houthis, a rebel group in Yemen consists of the white flag with the colours red and green. With the motto, it is partially modeled on the motto of revolutionary Iran, and reads \"Death to U.S. death to Israel and a curse on the Jews\" in Arabic text.\n\n"}
{"id": "19299896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19299896", "title": "Greeks in the Netherlands", "text": "Greeks in the Netherlands\n\nThe Greek community in the Netherlands numbers between 4,000 and 12,500 people.\n\nThe first Greek Orthodox congregation in Amsterdam was founded by Metropolitan Gerasimos Avlonites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21000401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21000401", "title": "HealthMap", "text": "HealthMap\n\nHealthMap is a freely accessible, automated electronic information system for monitoring, organizing, and visualizing reports of global disease outbreaks according to geography, time, and infectious disease agent. In operation since September 2006, and created by John Brownstein, PhD and Clark Freifeld, MS, HealthMap acquires data from a variety of freely available electronic media sources (e.g. ProMED-mail, Eurosurveillance, Wildlife Disease Information Node) to obtain a comprehensive view of the current global state of infectious diseases.\n\nUsers of HealthMap come from a variety of organizations including state and local public health agencies, the World Health Organization (WHO), the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. HealthMap is used both as an early detection system and supports situational awareness by providing current, highly local information about outbreaks, even from areas relatively invisible to traditional global public health efforts. Currently, HealthMap monitors information sources in English, Chinese, Spanish, Russian, French, Portuguese, and Arabic.\n\nIn March 2014, the Healthmap software tracked early press and social media reports of a hemorrhagic fever in West Africa, subsequently identified by WHO as Ebola. The HealthMap team subsequently created a dedicated HealthMap visualization at healthmap.org/ebola.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8647647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8647647", "title": "I Corps (South Korea)", "text": "I Corps (South Korea)\n\nI Corps (South Korea) was created July 24, 1950, just before the Battle of Pusan Perimeter.\n\nI Corps consisted of the 8th Infantry Division and the Capital Division.\n\nDuring the battle of the Pusan Perimeter (July–September, 1950), its headquarters was at Sangju.\n\nCurrently, I Corps is the largest corps in the ROK Army. I Corps is organized with three infantry divisions, one mechanized infantry division, and several separate brigades.\n\nUnder the direction of U.S. Army General Walker, the ROK I Corps participated in the crossing of the 38th parallel on October 1, 1950. They rushed north to the North Korean port of Wonsan on October 10, 1950. Leaving parts of their force in Wonsan, the I Corps also went west. The U.S. Army X Corps under the command of General MacArthur had planned a second amphibious landing at Wonsan but after the ROK I Corps victory there, no assault was needed. The X Corps walked ashore. U.S General Almond then added the ROK I Corps to his command.\n\nAfter adding the ROK I corps to his command, General Almond used them to clear northeastern North Korea. Columns of troops were sent up over the mountains to clear and maintain the coast towards the Yalu River and Changjin Reservoir.\n\nIn November 1950, the I Corps fought at Sudong against the Chinese. Along with the help of the United States Marine corps, they were able to defeat the Chinese and cause at least 662 deaths.\n"}
{"id": "27533906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27533906", "title": "Japca Monastery", "text": "Japca Monastery\n\nThe Japca Monastery () is a monastery in Florești District, Moldova. \n\nThe Japca Monastery is situated on the shore of Nistru River at a distance of from Camenca. It is the only monastery from Basarabia which was never closed by the Soviet authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "8932813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932813", "title": "Legends of Africa", "text": "Legends of Africa\n\nShango was the fourth king of the Oyo clan in Yorubaland who brought prosperity to the Empire he inherited. Many stories have been told about him, and several myths surround him. He stands as the cornerstone of many Afro-Caribbean religions.\n\nIn the Yoruba religion, Shango (Xangô or Changó in Latin America), is perhaps the most popular Orisha. He is the orisha of thunder and one of the principal ancestors of the Yoruba people. In the Santeria religion of the Caribbean, Shango is considered to be the focal point as he represents the Oyos of West Africa. The Oyo empire sold a lot of people to the Atlantic slave trade who then took them to the Caribbean and South America. It is primarily for this reason that every major Orisha initiation ceremony performed in the New World within the past few hundred years has been based on the traditional Shango ceremony of Ancient Oyo. Such ceremonies survived the Middle Passage and are considered to be the most complete traditional practices to have arrived on American shores.\n\nShango's sacred colors are \"'red\" and \"white\"; his sacred number is \"6\"; his symbol is the \"oshe\", which represents swift and balanced justice. He is owner of the \"bata\" (3 double-headed drums) and of music in general, as well as the art of dance.\n\nShango is venerated in Santería, Candomblé Ketu, Umbanda, and Vodou.\n\nIn art, Shango is depicted with a double-axe on his three heads. He is associated with the holy animal, the ram.\n\nShaka (sometimes spelled Tshaka, Tchaka or Chaka; c. 1787 – c. 22 September 1828) was a Zulu leader.\n\nHe is widely credited with transforming the Zulu tribe from a small clan into the beginnings of a nation that held sway over the large portion of Southern Africa that stretches between the Phongolo and Mzimkhulu rivers. His military prowess and destructiveness have been widely studied by modern scholarship. One \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" article (Macropaedia Article \"Shaka\" 1974 ed) asserts that he was something of a military genius for his reforms and innovations. Other writers take a more limited view of his achievements. Nevertheless, his statesmanship and vigour in assimilating some neighbours and ruling by proxy marks him as one of the greatest of the Zulu chieftains.\n\nKing Jaja of Opobo (1821–1891)\n\nBorn in Igboland and sold as a slave to a Bonny trader at the age of twelve, he was named Jubo Jubogha by his first master. He was later sold to Chief Alali, the powerful head of the Opobu Manila Group of Houses. Called Jaja by the British, this gifted and enterprising individual eventually became one of the most powerful men in the eastern Niger Delta.\n\nThe Niger Delta, where the Niger empties itself into the Gulf of Guinea in a system of intricate waterways, was the site of unique settlements called city-states.\n\nFrom the 15th to the 18th centuries, Bonny, like the other city-states, gained its wealth from the profits of the slave trade. Here, an individual could attain prestige and power through success in business and, as in the case of Jaja, a slave could work his way up to head of state. The House was a socio-political institution and was the basic unit of the city-state.\n\nIn the 19th century—after the abolition of the slave trade in 1807—the trade in slaves was supplanted by the trade in palm oil, which was so vibrant that the region was named the Oil Rivers area.\n\nThe Houses in Bonny and other city-states controlled both the internal and external palm oil trade because the producers in the hinterland were forbidden to trade directly with the Europeans on the coast; the Europeans never left the coast for fear of malaria.\n\nAstute in business and politics, Jaja became the head of the Anna Pepple House, extending its activities and influence by absorbing other houses, increasing operations in the hinterland and augmenting the number of European contacts. A power struggle ensued among rival factions in the houses at Bonny, leading to the breakaway of the faction led by Jaja. He established a new settlement, which he named Opobo. He became King Jaja of Opobo and declared himself independent of Bonny.\n\nStrategically located between Bonny and the production areas of the hinterland, King Jaja controlled trade and politics in the delta. In so doing he curtailed trade at Bonny, and at the end of his ascendancy, fourteen of the eighteen Bonny houses had moved to Opobo.\n\nIn a few years, he had become so wealthy that he was shipping palm oil directly to Liverpool himself. The British consul could not tolerate this situation. Jaja was offered a treaty of \"protection\", in return for which the chiefs usually surrendered their sovereignty. After Jaja's initial opposition, he was reassured, in rather vague terms, that neither his authority nor the sovereignty of Opobo would be threatened.\n\nJaja continued to regulate trade and levy duties on British traders, to the point where he ordered a cessation of trade on the river until one British firm agreed to pay duties. Jaja refused to comply with the consul's order to terminate these activities, despite British threats to bombard Opobo. Unknown to Jaja, the Scramble for Africa had taken place and Opobo was part of the territories allocated to Great Britain. This was the era of gunboat diplomacy, where Great Britain used her naval power to negotiate conditions favorable to her people.\n\nLured into a meeting with the British consul aboard a warship, Jaja was arrested and sent to Accra, where he was summararily tried and found guilty of \"treaty breaking\" and \"blocking the highways of trade\".\n\nHe was deported to St. Vincent (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines), West Indies, and four years later, he died en route to Nigeria after he was permitted to return.\n\nIronically, Jaja's dogged insistence on African independence and effective resistance exposed British imperialism and made him the first victim of foreign territorial intrusion in West Africa. The fate of Jaja reverberated through the entire Niger delta. Amazed at this turn of events, the other delta chiefs quickly capitulated.\n\nIn addition, the discovery of quinine as the cure for malaria enabled the British traders to bypass the middlemen and deal directly with the palm oil producers, thus precipitating the decline of the city-states.\n\nKing Jaja's downfall ensured a victory for British supremacy, paving the way for the eventual imposition of the colonial system in this region by the end of the century.\n\nMohammed Ben Abu Bekr \"Askia the Great\" (1538)\n\nMohammed Ben Abu Bekr, the favored general of Sunni Ali, believed that he was entitled to the throne after Sunni Ali's death, rather than Ali's son, Abu Kebr.\n\nClaiming that the power was his by right of achievement, Mohammed attacked the new ruler a year after his acsession and defeated him in one of the bloodiest battles in history. When one of Sunni Ali's daughters heard the news, she cried out \"Askia\", which means \"forceful one.\" This title was taken by Mohammed as his regnal name.\n\nAskia began by consolidating his vast empire and establishing harmony among the conflicting religions and political elements. Under the leadership of Askia, the Songhay Empire flourished until it became one of the richest empires of that period, from any region. Timbuctoo became known as \"The Center of Learning\", \"The Mecca of the Sudan\", and \"The Queen of the Sudan\".\nWith his empire firmly established, Askia resumed his attack on the \"unbelievers\", carrying the rule of Islam into new lands.\nAskia the Great made Timbuktu (Archaic English: \"Timbuctoo\"; Koyra Chiini: \"Tumbutu\"; ) one of the most famous centers of commerce and learning on Earth. The brilliance of the city was such that it still shines in the imagination after three centuries like a star which, though dead, continues to send its light toward us.\n\nSuch was its splendor that in spite of its many vicissitudes after the death of Askia, the vitality of Timbuktu is not extinguished.\n\nThe Oyo Empire (c. 1400–1835) was a West African empire of present-day Nigeria. The empire was established by the Yoruba in the 15th century and grew to become one of the largest West African states encountered by colonial explorers. It rose to pre-eminence through wealth gained from trade and its possession of a powerful cavalry. The Oyo Empire was the most politically important state in the region from the mid-17th to the late 18th century, holding sway not only over other Yoruba kingdoms in modern-day Nigeria, Benin, and Togo, but also over other African kingdoms, most notable being the Fon Dahomey (in present-day Benin).\n\nThe mythical origins of the Oyo Empire lie with Oranyan (also known as Oranmiyan), the second prince of the Yoruba Kingdom of Ile-Ife. Oranyan made an agreement with his brother to launch a punitive raid on their northern neighbors for insulting their father, the Oba Oduduwa, first of the Oonis of Ife. On the way to the battle, the brothers quarrelled and the army split up. Oranyan's force was too small to make a successful attack, so he wandered the southern shore until reaching Bussa. There the local chief entertained him and provided a large snake with a magic charm attached to its throat. The chief instructed Oranyan to follow the snake until it stopped somewhere for seven days and disappeared into the ground. Oranyan followed the advice and founded Oyo where the serpent stopped. The site is remembered as Ajaka. Oranyan made Oyo his new kingdom and became the first \"oba\" (meaning 'king' or 'ruler' in the Yoruba language) with the title of \"Alaafin of Oyo\" (Alaafin means 'owner of the palace' in Yoruba), leaving all his treasures in Ife and allowing another king named Adimu to rule there in his stead.\n\nOranyan, the first oba of Oyo, was succeeded by Oba Ajaka, Alaafin of Oyo. Ajaka was deposed because he was seen to be lacking Yoruba military virtues and allowing his sub-chiefs too much independence. Leadership was then conferred upon Ajaka's brother, Jakuta, who was later deified as the deity Shango. Ajaka was restored after Shango's death. Ajaka returned to the throne thoroughly more warlike and oppressive. His successor, Kori, managed to conquer the rest of what later historians would refer to as metropolitan Oyo.\n\nThe heart of metropolitan Oyo was its capital at Oyo-Ile, (also known as \"Katunga\", \"Old Oyo\", or Oyo-oro). The two most important structures in Oyo-Ile were the 'afin', or palace of the Oba, and his market. The palace was at the center of the city, close to the Oba's market which was called 'Oja-oba'. Around the capital was a tall earthen wall for defense with 17 gates. The importance of the two large structures (the palace and the Oja Oba) signified the importance of the king in Oyo.\n\nThe Ashanti, or Asante, are a major ethnic group in modern Ghana. The Ashanti speak Twi, an Akan language similar to Fante. For the Ashanti (Asante) Confederacy, see Asanteman.\n\nPrior to European colonization, the Ashanti people developed a large and influential empire in West Africa. The Ashanti later created the powerful Ashanti Confederacy and became the dominant presence in the region.\n\nThe Ashanti, Adansi, Akyem, Assin, and Denkyira peoples of Ghana, like the Baule of Côte d'Ivoire, are subgroups of the West African Akan nation which is said to have migrated from the vicinity of the north-western Niger River after the fall of the Ghana Empire in the 13th century. Evidence of this is seen in royal courts of the Akan kings reflected by that of the Ashanti kings whose processions and ceremonies show remnants of ancient Ghana ceremonies. Ethnolinguists have substantiated the migration by tracing word usage and speech patterns along West Africa.\n\nThus, although the Ghana Empire was geographically different from present-day Ghana, some of its people, specifically the Akan, moved to what is today Ghana, hence the historicity of the name. In fact, the North African Almoravid dynasty gold coin was renowned throughout the medieval world as being made of the purest of golds, since West African gold was 92 percent pure at the time it was mined, higher than old Egyptian gold ore, which started at 85 percent, a figure which was later refined to 95 percent. Evidence of early Ashanti connections to the Islamic world is the Ashanti word for money – \"sikka\" – the same as the Arabic word for minting money.\n\nThe Bamana Empire (also Bambara Empire or Ségou Empire) was a large pre-colonial West African state based at Ségou, now in Mali. It was ruled by the Kulubali or Coulibaly dynasty established circa 1640 by Fa Sine also known as Biton-si-u. The empire existed as a centralized state from 1712 to the 1861 invasion of Toucouleur conqueror El Hadj Umar Tall.\n\nThe Bambara Empire was structured around traditional Bambara institutions, including the \"kòmò\", a body to resolve theological concerns. The \"kòmò\" often consulted religious sculptures prior to making their decisions, particularly the four state \"boliw\", large altars designed to aid the acquisition of political power.\n\nIn the Battle of Noukouma, in 1818, Bambara forces met and were defeated by Fula Muslim fighters rallied by the jihad of Cheikou Amadu (or Seku Amadu) of Massina. The Bambara Empire survived but was irreversibly weakened. Seku Amadu's forces decisively defeated the Bambara, taking Djenné and much of the territory around Mopti, and forming it into a Massina Empire. Timbuktu would fall as well in 1845.\n\nThe real end of the empire, however, came at the hands of El Hadj Umar Tall, a Toucouleur conqueror who swept across West Africa from Dinguiraye. Umar Tall's mujahideen readily defeated the Bambara, seizing Ségou itself on March 10, 1861, forcing the population to convert to Islam, and declaring an end to the Bambara Empire (which effectively became part of the newly declared Toucouleur Empire).\n\nThe Mali Empire or Manding Empire or Manden Kurufa was a medieval West African state of the Mandinka from 1235 to 1645. The empire was founded by Sundiata Keita and became renowned for the wealth of its rulers, especially Mansa Musa I. The Mali Empire had many profound cultural influences on West Africa, allowing the spread of its language, laws and customs along the Niger River.\n\nThe Mali Empire grew out of an area referred to by its contemporary inhabitants as Manden.\n\nManden, named for its inhabitants the Mandinka (initially Manden’ka with \"ka\" meaning people of), comprised most of present-day northern Guinea and southern Mali. The empire was originally established as a federation of Mandinka tribes called the Manden Kurufa (literally Manden Federation), but it later became an empire ruling millions of people from nearly every ethnic group imaginable in West Africa.\n\nThe naming origins of the Mali Empire are complex and still debated in scholarly circles around the world. While the meaning of \"Mali\" is still contested, the process of how it entered the regional lexicon is not. As mentioned earlier, the Mandinka of the Middle Ages referred to their ethnic homeland as \"Manden\".\n\nAmong the many different ethnic groups surrounding Manden were Pulaar speaking groups in Macina, Tekrur and Fouta Djallon. In Pulaar, the Mandinka of Manden became the Malinke of Mali.\n\nSo while the Mandinka people generally referred to their land and capital province as Manden, its semi-nomadic Fula subjects residing on the heartland's western (Tekrur), southern (Fouta Djallon) and eastern borders (Macina) popularized the name Mali for this kingdom and later empire of the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Mandinka kingdoms of Mali or Manden had already existed several centuries before Sundiata's unification as a small state just to the south of the Soninké empire of Wagadou, better known as the Ghana Empire.\n\nThis area was composed of mountains, savannah and forests, providing ideal protection and resources for the population of hunters. Those not living in the mountains formed small city-states such as Toron, Ka-Ba and Niani.\n\nThe Keita dynasty from which nearly every Mali emperor came traces its lineage back to Bilal, the faithful muezzin of Islam's prophet Muhammad. It was common practice during the Middle Ages for both Christian and Muslim rulers to tie their bloodline back to a pivotal figure in their faith's history. So while the lineage of the Keita dynasty may be dubious at best, oral chroniclers have preserved a list of each Keita ruler from Lawalo (supposedly one of Bilal's seven sons whom settled in Mali) to Maghan Kon Fatta (father of Sundiata Keita).\n\nNow part of present-day Nigeria, Ile-Ife, also known as Ife, is the holy city of the Yoruba people, a large proportion of which live in Nigeria in West Africa. Ile-Ife appears in myths as the birthplace of life and the location where the first humans sprang forth.\n\nAccording to Yoruba mythology, the world was originally a marshy, watery wasteland. In the sky above lived many gods, including the supreme God Olodumare. These gods sometimes descended from the sky on spiderwebs and played in the marshy waters, but there was no land or human being there.\n\nOne day Olorun called orisha-nla (the great god) Obatala, and told him to create solid land in the marshy waters below. He gave the Orisha a pigeon, a hen, and the shell of a snail containing some loose earth. Obatala descended to the waters and threw the loose earth into a small space. He then set loose the pigeon and hen, which began to scratch the earth and move it around. Soon the birds had covered a large area of the marshy waters and created solid ground.\n\nThe Orisha reported back to Olorun, who sent a chameleon to see what had been accomplished. The chameleon found that the earth was wide but not very dry. After a while, Olorun sent the creature to inspect the work again. This time the chameleon discovered a wide, dry land, which was called Ife (meaning \"wide\") and Ile (meaning \"house\"). All other earthly dwellings later evolved from colonies of Ile-Ife, and it was revered forever after as a sacred spot. It remains the home of the Oni, the spiritual leader of the Yoruba.\n\nThe peoples who lived in Yorubaland, at least by the 4th century BCE, were not initially known as the Yoruba, although they shared a common language group. Both archaeology and traditional Yoruba oral historians confirm the existence of people in this region for several millennia. Yoruba spiritual heritage maintains that the Yoruba clans are a unique people who were originally created at Ile-Ife.\n\nLegend holds that the creation was delegated by the supreme spiritual force, Olodumare, as stated above. This task, which was first attributed to orisha-nla Obatala may have actually been conducted by the Orishas Oduduwa and Eshu, who himself served as the divine messenger.\n\nThe name \"Yoruba\" is most likely an adaptation of 'Yo ru ebo', meaning \"will venerate (make offerings to the) Orisha\". This refers to the Aborisha spiritual religion of the Yoruba, which existed for centuries prior to Islamic and Christian proselytism. The Yoruba civilization remains one of the most technologically and artistically advanced in West Africa to this time.\n\nSome contemporary historians contend that the Yoruba are not indigenous to Yorubaland, but are descendants of immigrants to the region. This version of history contends that Oduduwa was, in fact, a mortal king, from Arabia, under whose leadership the Oyo region of Yorubaland was conquered sometime in the 11th century and the kingdom of Ife as it is currently constituted was established. Oduduwa's relatives established kingdoms in the rest of Yorubaland.\n\nOne of Oduduwa's sons, Oranmiyan, took the throne of Benin and expanded the Oduduwa Dynasty eastwards. Further expansion led to the establishment of the Yoruba in what are now Southwest Nigeria, Benin, and Togo, with Yoruba city-states acknowledging the spiritual primacy of the ancient city of Ile Ife. The southeastern Benin Empire, ruled by a dynasty that traced its ancestry to Ifẹ and Oduduwa but largely populated by the Edo and other related ethnicities, also held considerable sway in the election of nobles and kings in eastern Yorubaland.\n\nFounded around the 10th century, Benin served as the capital of the Kingdom of Benin, the empire of the Oba of Benin, which flourished from the 14th through the 17th century. No trace remains of the structures admired by European travellers to the Great Benin because the kingdom was looted, blown up and razed to the ground by British forces for their resistance to colonial rule, though the fabled Walls of Benin have been undergoing preservation and restoration procedures for years. After Benin was visited by the Portuguese in 1472, historical Benin grew rich during the 16th and 17th centuries through the export of some tropical products.\n\nThe Bight of Benin's shore was part of the so-called \"Slave Coast\", from where many West Africans were sold (usually by local rulers) to foreign slave traders. In the early 16th century the Oba sent an ambassador to Lisbon, and the King of Portugal sent Christian missionaries to Benin. Some residents of Benin could still speak a pidgin Portuguese in the late 19th century.\n\nTo preserve Benin's independence, bit by bit the Oba banned the export of goods from Benin, until the trade was exclusively in palm oil.\n\nOn 1 February 1852, the whole Bight of Benin became a British protectorate where a Consul (representative) represented the protector, until on the 6th of August, 1861, the Bights of Biafra and Benin became a united British protectorate, again under a British Consul.\n\nIn the \"Punitive Expedition\" of 1897, a 1200-strong British force, under the command of Admiral Sir Harry Rawson, conquered and burned the city, destroying much of the country's treasured art and dispersing nearly all that remained. Due to this the \"Benin Bronzes\": portrait figures, busts, and groups created in iron, carved ivory, and especially in brass (conventionally called \"bronze\"), are on display in museums around the world. A scattered catalogue of some 2,500 pieces, the collection arguably constitutes the most argued over pool of antiquities after the disputed treasures of Ancient Egypt itself.\nAfter the fall of Benin, the British set apart Warri province in a bid to punish the Oba and curb his imperial power. The Benin monarchy was restored in 1914, but true power now lay with the colonial administration of Nigeria. The defeat, capture and subjugation of the empire's war-like people marked the sovereign end of one of Africa's greatest medieval states.\n\nThe seven original states of Hausaland: Katsina, Daura, Kano, Zazzau, Gobir, Rano, and Garun Gabas cover an area of approximately and comprise the heart of the Hausa realm. In the 16th century, Queen Bakwa Turunku built the capital of Zazzau at Zaria, named after her younger daughter. Eventually, the entire state of Zazzau was renamed Zaria, which is now a province and traditional kingdom in present-day Nigeria.\n\nHowever, it was her elder daughter, the legendary Amina (or Aminatu), who inherited her mother's warlike nature. Amina was 16 years old when her mother became queen and she was given the traditional title of \"Magajiya\", an honorific borne by the daughters of monarchs. She honed her military skills and became famous for her bravery and military exploits, as she is celebrated in song as \"Amina, daughter of Nikatau, a woman as capable as a man.\"\n\nAmina is credited as the architectural overseer who created the strong earthen walls that surround her city, which were the prototype for the fortifications used in all Hausa states. She subsequently built many of these fortifications, which became known as ganuwar Amina or Amina's walls, around various conquered cities.\n\nThe objectives of her conquests were twofold: extension of her nation beyond its primary borders and reducing the conquered cities to a vassal status. Sultan Muhammad Bello of Sokoto stated that, \"She made war upon these countries and overcame them entirely so that the people of Katsina paid tribute to her and the men of Kano and... also made war on cities of Bauchi till her kingdom reached to the sea in the south and the west.\" Likewise, she led her armies as far as Nupe and, according to the Kano Chronicle, \"The Sarkin Nupe sent her (i.e. the princess) 40 eunuchs and 10,000 kola nuts. She was the first in Hausaland to own eunuchs and kola nuts.\"\n\nAmina was a pre-eminent gimbiya (princess) but various theories exist as to the time of her reign or if she ever was a queen. One explanation states that she reigned from approximately 1536 to 1573, while another posits that she became queen after her brother Karama's death, in 1576. Yet another claims that although she was a leading princess and de facto ruler, she was never a titular queen.\n\nDespite the discrepancies in the tale of her life, one thing is certain, over a 34-year period, her many conquests and subsequent annexation of the territories conquered extended the borders of Zaria, which also grew in importance as a result and which became the center of the North-South Saharan trade and the East-West Sudan trade.\n\nThe Queen of Sheba, (Arabic Malekat sabaa ملكة سبأ, Ge'ez: Nigista Saba ንግሥተ ሳባ, Yoruba: Ayaba ile Seba), referred to in the Bible books of 1 Kings and 2 Chronicles, the New Testament, the Qur'an, Ethiopian history and even the tribal traditions of the Yoruba people of West Africa, was the ruler of Sheba, an ancient kingdom which modern archaeology speculates was located in present-day Yemen or Eritrea, Ethiopia.\n\nUnnamed in the Biblical text, she is called Makeda (Ge'ez: ማክዳ \"mākidā\") in the Ethiopian tradition, and in Islamic tradition her name is Bilqis. In some books she is referred to as Belkis. Alternative names given for her have been Nikaule, Nicaula and Bilikisu Sungbon. She supposedly lived in the 10th century BC.\n\nShe is better known to the world as the Queen of Sheba.\n\nIn his book, \"World's Great Men of Color\", J.A. Rogers, gives this description: \"Out of the mists of three thousand years, emerges this beautiful story of a Black Queen, who attracted by the fame of a Judean monarch, made a long journey to see him.\"\n\nThe Queen of Sheba is said to have undertaken a long and difficult journey to Jerusalem, in order to learn of the wisdom of the great King Solomon. Makeda and King Solomon were equally impressed with each other. Out of their relationship was born a son, according to the Ethiopian Book of the Glory of Kings, Menelik I.\n\nThis Queen is said to have reigned over Sheba and Arabia as well as Ethiopia. The queen of Sheba's capital was Debra Makeda, which she built for herself.\n\nIn Ethiopia's church of Axum, there is a copy of what is said to be one of the Tables of Law that Solomon gave to Menelik I.\n\nThe story of the Queen of Sheba is deeply cherished in Ethiopia as part of the national heritage. This African Queen serves as one of the exclusive group of people that appear in the traditions of several different religions, with her being mentioned in two holy books- the Bible and the Koran.\n\nShaihu Usman dan Fodio () (also referred to as Shaikh Usman Ibn Fodio, Shehu Uthman Dan Fuduye, or Shehu Usman dan Fodio, 1754–1817) was a writer, preacher, Islamic reformer and Sultan of Sokoto. Dan Fodio was one of a class of urbanized ethnic Fulani living in the Hausa city-states in what is today northern Nigeria. He lived in the city-state of Gobir, and is considered an Islamic revivalist; he encouraged the education of women in religious matters, and several of his daughters emerged as scholars and writers (with the most prominent of them being the Princess Nana Asmau).\n\nDan Fodio was well-educated in classical Islamic science, philosophy and theology, and became a revered religious thinker in his own right. His teacher, Jibril ibn 'Umar, argued that it was the duty and within the power of religious movements to establish the ideal society, free from oppression and vice. Dan Fodio used his influence to secure approval to create a religious community in his hometown of Degel that would, or so he hoped, be a model town.\n\nAfter the Fulani War, he became the reigning commander of the largest state in the Africa of its day, the Fulani Empire. Dan Fodio worked to establish an efficient government, one grounded in Islamic law. Already aged at the beginning of the war, he retired in 1815 and passed the title of Sultan of Sokoto to his son, Muhammed Bello.\n\nDan Fodio's uprising inspired a number of later West African jihads, including those of Massina Empire founder Seku Amadu, Toucouleur Empire founder El Hadj Umar Tall (who married one of dan Fodio's granddaughters), Wassoulou Empire founder Samori, and Adamawa Emirate founder Modibo Adama, who served as one of dan Fodio's provincial chiefs.\n\nAnn Nzingha \"Queen of Ndongo\" (1582–1663)\n\nIn the 16th century, the Portuguese stake in the slave trade was threatened by England and France. This caused the Portuguese to transfer their slave-trading activities southward to the Congo and South West Africa. Their most stubborn opposition, as they entered the final phase of the conquest of Angola, came from a queen who was a great head of state, and a military leader with few peers in her time.\nThe important facts about her life are outlined by Professor Glasgow of Bowie, Maryland:\n\n\"Her extraordinary story begins about 1582, the year of her birth. She is referred to as Nzingha, or Jinga, but is better known as Ann Nzingha. She was the sister of the then-reigning King of Ndongo, Ngoli Bbondi, whose country was later called Angola. Nzingha was from an ethnic group called the Jagas. The Jagas were an extremely militant group who formed a human shield against the Portuguese slave traders. Nzingha never accepted the Portuguese conquest of Angola, and was always on the military offensive. As part of her strategy against the invaders, she formed an alliance with the Dutch, who she intended to use to defeat the Portuguese slave traders.\"\n\nIn 1623, at the age of forty-one, Nzingha became Queen of Ndongo. She forbade her subjects to call her Queen, preferring to be called King, and when leading an army in battle, dressed in men's clothing.\n\nIn 1659, at the age of seventy-five, she signed a treaty with the Portuguese, bringing her no feeling of triumph. Nzingha had resisted the Portuguese most of her adult life. African bravery, however, was no match for gunpowder. This great African woman died in 1663, which was followed by the massive expansion of the Portuguese slave trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "939581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939581", "title": "Lichtenstein's hartebeest", "text": "Lichtenstein's hartebeest\n\nLichtenstein's hartebeest (\"Alcelaphus buselaphus lichtensteinii\") is an antelope that dwells in savannahs and floodplains of Southeastern-Central Africa. By some, this species is classified as \"Sigmoceros lichtensteinii\".\n\nIt typically stands about at the shoulder and have a mass of around . It has a red brown colour, which is lighter on the underbelly. The horns found on both sexes appear from the side to be shaped like the letter 'S', and appear from the front to be shaped like the letter 'O' with its upper portions missing. The horns are slightly ridged and reach over in length.\n\nThey live on areas where they eat grasses. They are diurnal (active in the day). They gather in herds of five to 15 females and calves with a single male, which leads them. The male stands sentry duty on termite mounds and the like. Males hold large territories, which they mark by digging up soil with their horns around the borders. Lichtenstein's hartebeest have good eyesight but a poor sense of smell. Their main sounds are a bellow and a sneeze-snort sound.\n\nIt derives its name from zoologist Martin Lichtenstein.\n"}
{"id": "37214286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37214286", "title": "List of Eurasian countries by population", "text": "List of Eurasian countries by population\n\nThis is a list of Eurasian countries and dependent territories by population, which is sorted by the 2015 mid-year normalized demographic projections.\n\n"}
{"id": "19511790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19511790", "title": "List of Ultras of West Asia", "text": "List of Ultras of West Asia\n\nThis is a list of all 102 of the ultra-prominent peaks (with topographic prominence greater than 1,500 metres) in West Asia. It includes peaks on the islands of Cyprus and Socotra. It also includes the 10 ultras of the Caucasus (also listed under Europe) as they are geographically more connected to the mountains of West Asia. Two of these peaks (Mount Aragats and Kapudzhukh Lerr) are on the Asian side of the ridge of the Greater Caucasus, which forms the usual boundary between Europe and Asia, and four more are on the border itself and so in both Europe and Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21834831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21834831", "title": "List of cookies", "text": "List of cookies\n\nThis is a list of notable cookies (American English), also called biscuits (British English). Cookies are typically made with flour, egg, sugar, and some type of shortening such as butter or cooking oil, baked into a small, flat shape.\n\n"}
{"id": "27847358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27847358", "title": "Lux-Post", "text": "Lux-Post\n\nLux-Post is a free weekly newspaper published in Luxembourg. It is published by Editpress. Lux-Post has the largest circulation of any newspaper in the country, with over 135,000 copies distributed a week.\n\n"}
{"id": "11744851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11744851", "title": "M'Boki Airport", "text": "M'Boki Airport\n\nM'Boki Airport is an airport serving Obo, a village in the Haut-Mbomou prefecture of the Central African Republic. The runway is northwest of the village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36464127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36464127", "title": "Makabana Airport", "text": "Makabana Airport\n\nMakabana Airport is an airstrip serving the village of Makabana in the Niari Department, Republic of the Congo. The runway is southwest of the village.\n\nThe Makabana non-directional beacon (Ident: MK) is east-northeast of the runway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9919344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9919344", "title": "Middle East Airlines Flight 438", "text": "Middle East Airlines Flight 438\n\nMiddle East Airlines Flight 438 a Boeing 720B, callsign CEDAR JET 438, was en route from Beirut to Abu Dhabi on 1 January 1976 when a bomb exploded in the forward cargo compartment. The aircraft broke up at an altitude of and crashed 37 km (23 mi) northwest of Al Qaysumah, Saudi Arabia, killing all of its 81 passengers and crew. The bombers were never identified.\n\n"}
{"id": "1214570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1214570", "title": "Most Serene Republic", "text": "Most Serene Republic\n\nMost Serene Republic (\"Serenissima Respublica\" in Latin) is a title attached to a number of European states through history. By custom, the appellation \"Most Serene\" is an indicator of sovereignty (see also Serene Highness or Most Serene Highness for a sovereign prince); consequently \"Most Serene Republic\" emphasizes the sovereignty of the republic.\n\nSan Marino is the only modern independent state to use the style. Although officially named simply the \"Republic of San Marino\", short form \"San Marino\", it is unofficially still referred to as the \"Most Serene Republic of San Marino\" ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24351968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24351968", "title": "Mtepe", "text": "Mtepe\n\nThe mtepe is a boat associated with the Swahili people (the word \"boat\" in the Bantu Swahili language being \"mtepe\"). The mtepe's planks are held together by wooden pegs and coir, so it is a sewn boat designed to be flexible in contrast to the rigid vessels of western technique.\n\nThe cessation of the production of \"mtepe\" has been ascribed to the arrival of the Portuguese in the Indian Ocean in the 15th century, leading to boat builders adopting alternative, western shipbuilding techniques.\n\nNearly a dozen photographs and nine known model \"mtepe\" have been preserved. Three models are kept at the Fort Jesus Museum, a Portuguese fort built in 1591 located on Mombasa Island, Kenya. One model is kept at the Lamu Museum, north. One model is kept at the National Maritime Museum, Greenwich, London. One model is kept at the Science Museum, Kensington, London.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11736142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11736142", "title": "Ngola (ruler)", "text": "Ngola (ruler)\n\nNgola was the title for rulers of the Ndongo kingdom which existed from the 14th to the 17th century in what is now Angola. The full title was \"\"Ngola a Kiluanje\", which is often shortened to simply \"Ngola\"\", hence the name of the modern country.\n\n"}
{"id": "57086298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57086298", "title": "PM2FGZ", "text": "PM2FGZ\n\nPM2FGZ (90.0 FM, often abbreviated 90 FM), on air name Elshinta News and Talk or Elshinta, is an all-news radio in Jakarta, Indonesia.\n\nIn 1972, the station was started under Soejoso Karsono, a musician. Elshinta starts as an amateur radio named after his daughter Elshinta. At that time, Elshinta Radio plays Hawaiian music. The station's name influenced Karsono's band name, The Elshinta's Hawaiian Seniors. Later in 1976, Elshinta name was dropped from the band's name.\n\nAfter acquisition by Salim Group, Karsono created Suara Irama Indah (now Jak 101 FM), first commercial FM radio in Indonesia. Later on, Elshinta became music radio with a few news insert, due to limitations of news broadcast pre-1998. Elshinta completely abandoned its music programming in 14 February 2000. Today, Elshinta only broadcasts news and talk programming, except sponsored content and affiliations like NHK World Service.\n\nBefore 2011, Elshinta was in the same group with Indosiar TV. In 2011, Indosiar was acquired by Elang Media Teknologi/Emtek, owner of SCTV. Elshinta was also acquired by Emtek, but separated in 2013, creating new entity \"Elshinta Media\".\n\nElshinta has 8 regional stations that are self-owned. Elshinta regional stations relay Jakarta's broadcast, but sometimes local news session is found in certain stations. Elshinta also has 32 affiliations across the Indonesian archipelago.\n\n\nElshinta has its own media group, consists of Elshinta Magazine, Elshinta.com, TV station in Jakarta Elshinta TV, and Fit Radio.\n\nElshinta broadcasts simultaneous news update when a great disaster is happened in Indonesia, especially where the radio network exists. Some people relied to Elshinta for disaster updates, especially before Internet use increased in Indonesia. In Jakarta, Elshinta competes only with RRI Pro 3 88.8 FM, but its provincial stations have local competitors like 107.5 PRFM and Suara Surabaya 100 FM.\nIn 2016 Jakarta Attack and 2018 Surabaya Attack, Elshinta broadcast updates and commentaries about that terrorism event. However, Elshinta was warned by the Broadcasting Commission (KPI) due to fake explosion news spreading in 2016 Jakarta Attack. Elshinta said that they never spread that hoax news.\n"}
{"id": "11041975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11041975", "title": "Pink Plus", "text": "Pink Plus\n\nPink Plus is RTV Pink's satellite channel. \n\nHeadquartered in Vienna, Austria, it mostly targets Serbian diaspora. It can be viewed in Europe, South America, North America and Australia & New Zealand on UBI World TV.\n\nBeing Pink's primary satellite channel, half of Pink Plus' lineup consists of programmes from Pink's terrestrial channel while the other half is directly tailored for viewers outside Serbia with shows that are only broadcast on Pink Plus (\"Halo Pink\", \"Skandal Plus\", \"Tele kviz\", etc.).\n\nThe channel gained some notoriety for the footage of its presenter Sanja Nikolić fainting and losing consciousness on air whilst filming \"Halo Pink\". The clip became an instant viral video during the early 2000s.\n\n"}
{"id": "18004645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18004645", "title": "Pizzo di Cassimoi", "text": "Pizzo di Cassimoi\n\nPizzo di Cassimoi is a mountain of the Lepontine Alps, located on the border between the Swiss cantons of Ticino (west) and Graubünden (east). The mountain overlooks two lakes: Lago di Luzzone on its north-eastern side and Zervreilasee on its north-eastern side.\n\nA glacier named \"Vadrecc di Sorda\" lies over the northern flanks below a secondary summit (Pizzo Cassinello, 3,103 metres) on the side of Ticino.\n\nPosition on map http://map.geo.admin.ch/\n\n"}
{"id": "15304207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15304207", "title": "Plus 2 Radio", "text": "Plus 2 Radio\n\nPlus 2 Radio is a national private radio station operating in Albania. Also a part of BMN, a local radio network made up of 7 radio stations broadcasting in the Albanian speaking territories of the Balkans.\n"}
{"id": "8289891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8289891", "title": "Radio Maria", "text": "Radio Maria\n\nRadio Maria (formally known as The World Family of Radio Maria; , , , , , , , , known in Germany as \"Radio Horeb\") is an international Catholic radio broadcasting service founded in Erba, province of Como, in the diocese of Milan, Italy, in 1987. The World Family of Radio Maria was formed in 1998, mainly based on the Our Lady of Medjugorje apparitions and messages, and today has branches in 55 countries around the world. Its mission includes Liturgy, Catechesis, Spirituality, Spiritual assistance with everyday issues, Information, Music, and Culture.\n\nIts first broadcast facility was originally parish operated in Arcellasco d'Erba (province of Como, Italy), but was later re-formed as a separate entity outside its home parish as an association of lay people and priests in 1987 as Radio Maria Italia. In less than five years, it grew into a national Catholic radio network throughout Italy. Though not directly connected with the Roman Catholic Church, it was founded as an instrument of the Church, and as a tool for evangelization, implementing and adhering to the teachings of the Church. It was inspired by the Marian apparitions at Fátima, Portugal (and in more recent years in Medjugorje), pleading for worldwide conversion. As such, Radio Maria is not subsidized or funded by the Roman Catholic Church; instead it is underwritten by listener contributions.\n\nIn 1994, don M. Galbiati, the principal founder, left Radio Maria and founded Radio Mater, even in Arcellasco d'Erba, as a totally separated entity. Since 5 September of the same year, transmissions started in Albavilla (yet in province of Como). The Liturgy of the Hours is diffused in the Roman Rite. Radio Mater is broadcast via radio in Italy, in Europe via satellite (DVB-S Hot Bird), and via Internet (WMP).\n\nThe World Family of Radio Maria was formed in 1998 out of its subsequent international growth in the 1990s, and following the 1987 speech by Pope John Paul II in St Peter's Square addressing the need for a new evangelization. Emanuele Ferrario (inspired by the Pope's words to form that new evangelization) is the founder and president of Radio Maria Inc., which has since grown into an association of 40 multilingual broadcast operations in Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and the Americas. Overall, Radio Maria operates approximately 1,500 terrestrial radio transmitters worldwide.\n\nIts United States of America operations is one of the newest joining the World Family in May 2000 with KJMJ (AM) in Alexandria, Louisiana being the originating English-language station, together with a network of several FM and AM repeaters in Louisiana, an AM station in Port Arthur, Texas on 1250 AM (KDEI), and an FM repeater in Anna, Ohio. An AM repeater in Springfield, Ohio east of Dayton commenced broadcasting in June 2008 with new FM repeaters in Hollidaysburg, Pennsylvania coming on the air in June 2009, D'Iberville, Mississippi and Peshtigo, Wisconsin both in May 2010. Spanish-language and Italian-language programming is heard on FM subcarrier frequencies in Boston, Chicago, Houston, New York City and Washington, D.C.. Italian-language programming can also be heard on New York City FM subcarrier as well as French Canadian and English speaking services on FM subcarriers in Toronto, Ontario. Audiostreaming is available from most of these stations.\n\nProgramming mostly consists of traditional Catholic worship music, but some stations also air a mix of traditional and Contemporary Catholic music, along with various talk and teaching programs discussing the Catholic faith, frequent recitals of the Holy Rosary, novenas and Masses.\n\nRadio Maria's programming mostly emanates from one centrally located studio or station in a given region or country, and is then re-broadcast (or \"simulcast\") on a network of repeater transmitters on the AM and FM bands. Some employ the use of a subcarrier, also known as SCA (for \"Subsidiary Communications Authority\") facilities of FM stations, requiring the use of a receiver designed to receive SCA signals. Since the emergence of the internet, audiostreaming has been used extensively as a means to help fill-in gaps left by the unavailability of AM or FM frequencies in metropolitan areas already taken up by commercial, public, or other religious broadcasters.\n\nBeginning in June 2008, there are now shortwave transmissions originating from Italy at 26,000 kHz and at 26,010 kHz DRM making it the only (and last) shortwave service originating in Italy besides Vatican Radio. There are presently no commercial satellite radio subscription services (such as Sky Digital, Sirius or XM) of Radio Maria. However its Spanish-language, Italian-language and Polish-language stations may be available in some areas served by the Dish Pronto division of Dish Network, a satellite television subscription service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15346071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15346071", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Fenoarivo Atsinanana", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Fenoarivo Atsinanana\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Fenoarivo Atsinanana () is a diocese located in the city of Fenoarivo Atsinanana in the Ecclesiastical province of Toamasina in Madagascar.\n\nIts cathedral episcopal see is the Cathédrale Saint Maurice, in the city of Fenoarivo Atsinanana, Toamasina Province.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9402954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9402954", "title": "Scouting and Guiding in Hungary", "text": "Scouting and Guiding in Hungary\n\nThe Scout and Guide movement in Hungary is served by\n\nThe \"International Forum of Hungarian Scouting\" is a union of Hungarian Scouting organizations in Hungary as well as abroad. Its members are:\n\nIn addition, there are USA Girl Scouts Overseas in Budapest, serviced by way of USAGSO headquarters in New York City; as well as Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts linked to the Horizon District of the Transatlantic Council of the Boy Scouts of America, which supports units in west-and-central Europe, the Near East and North Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51488629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51488629", "title": "Volleyball Federation of Kosovo", "text": "Volleyball Federation of Kosovo\n\nVolleyball Federation of Kosovo (Albanian: \"Federata e Volejebollit e Kosovës\", / \"Odbojkaški savez Kosova\") is the governing body of volleyball in Kosovo).\n\nVolleyball another sport that is played by hand, first appeared in Kosovo in 1936 in the high schools of cities like: Prishtinë, Pejë, Prizren etc. The first championship was held in Pristina on October 24 to 26 1948, six teams participated as: Proleteri, Buduçnosti, Trepça, Borac, Metohia, Brastvo. During 1966–1967, four teams from Kosovo took part in the second division of the league of former Yugoslavia. In 1990 KV Prishtina-Elektroekonomia took part in qualification to enter the first division of the former Yugoslavia but did not succeed. First League of Women was organized in 1975. Universiteti from Prishtina was the first team of women who took part in the second division league of Yugoslavia. Now volleyball federation of Kosovo organizes competitions in the category of women and men. Major league called Superleague of Kosovo then come cup of Kosovo, the first league and junior's league.\nAlso part of the Volleyball Federation of Kosovo are competitions : Cup of Kosovo and beach volley.\nTeams participating in Super league of Kosovo are: Theranda, KV Drenica, KV R&Rukolli, KV Besa, KV Luboteni, KV Ferizaji. The current champion is KV Luboteni.\n\n\n"}
