{"id": "68636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68636", "title": "Alms", "text": "Alms\n\nAlms (, ) or almsgiving involves giving to others as an act of virtue, either materially or in the sense of providing capabilities (e.g. education) free. It exists in a number of religions and regions. The word, in the modern English language, comes from the Old English \"ælmesse\", \"ælmes\", from Late Latin \"eleemosyna\", from Greek ἐλεημοσύνη \"eleēmosynē\" (\"pity, alms\"), from ἐλεήμων, \"eleēmōn\" (\"merciful\"), from ἔλεος, \"eleos\" (\"pity\").\n\nIn Judaism, \"tzedakah\" - a Hebrew term literally meaning righteousness but commonly used to signify \"charity\" - refers to the religious obligation to do what is right and just. Contemporary tzedakah is regarded as a continuation of the Biblical Maaser Ani, or poor-tithe, as well as Biblical practices including permitting the poor to glean the corners of a field, harvest during the Shmita (Sabbatical year), and other practices. Tzedakah, along with prayer and repentance, is regarded as ameliorating the consequences of bad acts.\n\nIn Judaism, Tzedakah (charity) is seen as one of the greatest deeds that man can do. Jewish farmers are commanded to leave the corners of their fields for the starving to harvest for food and are forbidden to pick up any grain that has been dropped during harvesting, as such food shall be left for the starving as well.\n\nFamous Jewish scholar and sage Maimonides has been noted for creating a list of charity, with the most righteous form being allowing an individual to become self-sustaining and capable of giving others charity. \n\n1) Enabling the recipient to become self-reliant\n\n2) Giving when neither party knows the other's identity\n\n3) Giving when you know the recipient's identity, but the recipient doesn't know your identity\n\n4) Giving when you do not know the recipient's identity, but the recipient knows your identity\n\n5) Giving before being asked\n\n6) Giving after being asked\n\n7) Giving less than you should, but giving it cheerfully\n\n8) Giving begrudgingly\n\nIn Islam, the concept of charitable giving is generally divided into voluntary giving, or Sadaqah, and the Zakat, an obligatory practice governed by a specific set of rules within Islamic jurisprudence, and intended to fulfill a well defined set of theological and social requirements. For that reason, while Zakat plays a much larger role within Islamic charity, Sadaqah is possibly a better translation of Christian influenced formulations of the notion of 'alms'.\n\nZakat is the third of the five pillars of Islam. Various rules attach to the practice but, in general terms, it is obligatory to give 2.5% of one's savings and business revenue and 5–10% of one's harvest to the poor. Possible recipients include the destitute, the working poor, those who are unable to pay off their own debts, stranded travelers and others who need assistance, with the general principle of \"zakaah\" always being that the rich should pay it to the poor. One of the most important principles of Islam is that all things belong to God and, therefore, wealth is held by human beings in trust.\n\nThe literal meaning of the word Zakat is \"to purify\", \"to develop\" and \"cause to grow\". According to Shariah it is an act of worship. Our possessions are purified by setting aside a proportion for those in need. This cutting back, like the pruning of plants, balances and encourages new growth.\n\nZakat is the amount of money that every adult, mentally stable, free, and financially able Muslim, male or female, has to pay to support specific categories of people.\n\nThis category of people is defined in surah at-Taubah (9) verse 60: \"The alms are only for the poor and the needy, and those who collect them, and those whose hearts are to be reconciled, and to free the captives and the debtors, and for the cause of Allah, and (for) the wayfarers; a duty imposed by Allah. Allah is knower, Wise.\" (The Holy Qur'an 9:60).\n\nThe obligatory nature of Zakat is firmly established in the Qur'an, the Sunnah (or hadith), and the consensus of the companions and the Muslim scholars. Allah states in Surah at-Taubah verses 34–35: \"O ye who believe! there are indeed many among the priests and anchorites, who in Falsehood devour the substance of men and hinder (them) from the way of Allah. And there are those who bury gold and silver and spend it not in the way of Allah. announce unto them a most grievous penalty – On the Day when heat will be produced out of that (wealth) in the fire of Hell, and with it will be branded their foreheads, their flanks, and their backs, their flanks, and their backs.- \"This is the (treasure) which ye buried for yourselves: taste ye, then, the (treasures) ye buried!\" (The Holy Qur'an 9:34–35).\n\nMuslims of each era have agreed upon the obligatory nature of paying Zakat for gold and silver, and from those the other kinds of currency.\n\nZakat is obligatory when a certain amount of money, called the nisab is reached or exceeded. Zakat is not obligatory if the amount owned is less than this nisab. The nisab (or minimum amount) of gold and golden currency is 20 mithqal, approximately 85 grams of pure gold. One mithqal is approximately 4.25 grams. The nisab of silver and silver currency is 200 dirhams, which is approximately 595 grams of pure silver. The nisab of other kinds of money and currency is to be scaled to that of gold; the nisab of money is equivalent to the price of 85 grams of 999-type (pure) gold, on the day in which Zakat is paid.\n\nZakat is obligatory after the money has been in the control of its owner for the span of one lunar year. Then the owner needs to pay 2.5% (or 1/40) of the money as Zakat. (A lunar year is approximately 355 days). The owner should deduct any amount of money he or she borrowed from others; then check if the rest reaches the necessary nisab, then pays Zakat for it.\n\nIf the owner had enough money to satisfy the nisab at the beginning of the year, but his wealth in any form increased, the owner needs to add the increase to the nisab amount owned at the beginning of the year, then pay Zakat, 2.5%, of the total at the end of the lunar year. There are minor differences between fiqh school on how this is to be calculated. Each Muslim calculates his or her own Zakat individually. For most purposes, this involves the payment each year of two and a half percent of one's capital.\n\nA pious person may also give as much as he or she pleases as sadaqa, and does so preferably in secret. Although this word can be translated as 'voluntary charity' it has a wider meaning. The Prophet said 'Even meeting your brother with a cheerful face is charity.'\n\nThe Prophet said: 'Charity is a necessity for every Muslim.' He was asked: 'What if a person has nothing?' The Prophet replied: 'He should work with his own hands for his benefit and then give something out of such earnings in charity.' The Companions asked: 'What if he is not able to work?' The Prophet said: 'He should help poor and needy persons.' The Companions further asked 'What if he cannot do even that?' The Prophet said 'He should urge others to do good.' The Companions said 'What if he lacks that also?' The Prophet said 'He should check himself from doing evil. That is also charity.'\n\nIn Buddhism, alms or almsgiving is the respect given by a lay Buddhist to a Buddhist monk, nun, spiritually-developed person or other sentient being. It is not charity as presumed by Western interpreters. It is closer to a symbolic connection to the spiritual realm and to show humbleness and respect in the presence of the secular society. The act of alms giving assists in connecting the human to the monk or nun and what he/she represents. As the Buddha has stated:\nIn Theravada Buddhism, nuns (Pāli: \"bhikkhunis\") and monks (Pāli: \"bhikkhus\") go on a daily almsround (\"pindacara\") to collect food (\"piṇḍapāta\"). This is often perceived as giving the laypeople the opportunity to make merit (Pāli: puñña). Money cannot be accepted by a Theravadan Buddhist monk or nun in lieu of or in addition to food, as the Patimokkha training rules make it an offence worth forfeiture and confession.\n\nIn countries that follow Mahayana Buddhism, the practice of a daily alms round has mostly died out. In China, Korea and Japan, local cultures resisted the idea of giving food to 'begging' clerics, and there was no tradition of gaining 'merit' by donating to practitioners. After periods of persecution, monasteries were situated in remote mountain areas in which the distance between the monastery and the nearest towns would make a daily alms round impossible. In Japan, the practice of a weekly or monthly takuhatsu replaced the daily round. In the Himalayan countries, the large number of bikshus would have made an almsround a heavy burden on families. Competition with other religions for support also made daily almsrounds difficult and even dangerous; the first Buddhist monks in the Silla dynasty of Korea were said to be beaten due to their minority at the time.\n\nIn Buddhism, both \"almsgiving\" and, more generally, \"giving\" are called \"dāna\" (Pāli). Such giving is one of the three elements of the path of practice as formulated by the Buddha for laypeople. This path of practice for laypeople is: dāna, sīla, bhāvanā.\n\nThe paradox in Buddhism is that the more a person gives – and the more one gives without seeking something in return – the wealthier (in the broadest sense of the word) one will become. By giving one destroys those acquisitive impulses that ultimately lead to further suffering. Generosity is also expressed towards other sentient beings as both a cause for merit and to aid the receiver of the gift. In Mahayana Tradition it is accepted that although the three jewels of refuge are the basis of the greatest merit, by seeing other sentient beings as having Buddhanature and making offerings towards the aspirational Buddha to be within them is of equal benefit. Generosity towards other sentient beings is greatly emphasised in Mahayana as one of the perfections (paramita) as shown in Lama Tsong Khapa's 'The Abbreviated Points of the Graded Path' (Tibetan: \"lam-rim bsdus-don\"):\n\nIn Buddhism, giving of alms is the beginning of one's journey to Nirvana (Pali: \"nibbana\"). In practice, one can give anything with or without thought for Nibbana. This would lead to faith (Pali: \"saddha\"), one key power (Pali: \"bala\") that one should generate within oneself for the Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha.\n\nThe motives behind giving play an important role in developing spiritual qualities. The suttas record various motives for exercising generosity. For example, the Anguttara Nikaya (A.iv,236) enumerates the following eight motives:\n\n\nAccording to the Pali canon:\n\nThe giving of alms is an act of charity toward those less fortunate. In the Apostolic age, Christians were taught that giving alms was an expression of love which was first expressed by God to them in that Jesus sacrificed himself as an act of love for the salvation of believers. The offertory is the traditional moment in Roman Catholic Mass, Anglican Eucharist, and Lutheran Divine Services when alms are collected. Some Protestant groups, such as Baptists or Methodists, also engage in alms, although it is more commonly referred to as \"tithes and offerings\" by the church. Some fellowships practice regular giving for special purposes called Love Offerings for the poor, destitute or victims of catastrophic loss such as home fires or medical expenses. Traditionally, Deacons and Deaconesses are responsible for distributing these gifts among widows, orphans, and others in need. Many Christians support a plethora of charitable organizations not all of which claim a Christian religious affiliation. Many American Educational and Medical Institutions were founded by Christian fellowships giving alms.\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Eastern Catholic Churches, the collection of alms and tithes has not been formally united to the offertory in any liturgical action. However, either having a collection plate in the narthex or passing it unobtrusively during the service is not uncommon. In Eastern Orthodox theology, almsgiving is an important part of the spiritual life, and fasting should always be accompanied by increased prayer and almsgiving. Almsgiving in the name of the deceased also frequently accompanies prayer for the dead. Those whose financial circumstances do not permit the giving of monetary alms may give alms in other ways, such as intercessory prayer and acts of mercy.\n\nIn the majority of Christian forms of worship and denominations, a collection of \"tithes and offerings\" is given for the support of the church's mission, budget, ministry, and for its relief of the poor, as an important act of Christian charity, united to communal prayer.\nIn some churches the \"offering plate\" or \"offering basket\" is placed upon the altar, as a sign that the offering is made to God, and a sign of the bond of Christian love. In addition, private acts of charity, considered virtuous only if not done for others to admire, are seen as a Christian duty.\n\nThe outward and an inward giving of alms:\nHere Jesus places the primary focus on the motives behind such acts, which should be love.\n\nGiving of the rich versus the poor:\nHere Jesus contrasts the giving of the rich and the poor\nGiving out of Love and not out of duty:\n\nDāna (Sanskrit: दान) is an ancient concept of alms-giving dating to the Vedic period of Hinduism. The word for alms in Vedic literature is \"Bhiksha\" (भिक्षा). The Rigveda has the earliest discussion of \"dāna\" in the Vedas and offers reasons for the virtue of alms-giving.\n\nThe early Upanishads, those composed before 500 BCE, also discuss the virtue of alms-giving. Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, in verse 5.2.3 for example, states that three characteristics of a good, developed person are self-restraint (damah), compassion or love for all sentient life (daya), and charity (dāna). Chandogya Upanishad, Book III, similarly, states that a virtuous life requires: tapas (meditation, asceticism), dāna (charity), arjava (straightforwardness, non-hypocrisy), ahimsa (non-violence, non-injury to all sentinent beings) and satyavacana (truthfulness).\n\nBhagavad Gita describes the right and wrong forms of \"dāna\" in verses 17.20 through 17.22. The \"Adi Parva\" of the Hindu Epic \"Mahabharata\", in Chapter 91, states that a person must first acquire wealth by honest means, then embark on charity; be hospitable to those who come to him; never inflict pain on any living being; and share a portion with others whatever he consumes. In the \"Vana Parva\", Chapter 194, the Mahabharata recommends that one must, \"conquer the mean by charity, the untruthful by truth, the wicked by forgiveness, and dishonesty by honesty\". The \"Bhagavata Purana\" discusses when dāna is proper and when it is improper. In Book 8, Chapter 19, verse 36 it states that charity is inappropriate if it endangers and cripples modest livelihood of one's biological dependents or of one’s own. Charity from surplus income above that required for modest living is recommended in the Puranas.\n\nDāna has been defined in traditional texts as any action of relinquishing the ownership of what one considered or identified as one's own, and investing the same in a recipient without expecting anything in return. While dāna is typically given to one person or family, Hinduism also discusses charity or giving aimed at public benefit, sometimes called \"utsarga\". This aims at larger projects such as building a rest house, school, drinking water or irrigation well, planting trees, and building care facility among others.\n\nAbū Rayḥān al-Bīrūnī, the 11th century Persian historian, who visited and lived in India for 16 years from about 1017 CE, mentions the practice of charity and almsgiving among Hindus as he observed during his stay. He wrote, \"It is obligatory with them (Hindus) every day to give alms as much as possible.\"\n\nAlms-giving is held as a noble deed in Hinduism, to be done without expectation of any return from those who receive the charity. Some texts reason, referring to the nature of social life, that charity is a form of good karma that affects one's future circumstances and environment, and that good charitable deeds leads to good future life because of the reciprocity principle. Other Hindu texts, such as \"Vyasa Samhita\", state that reciprocity may be innate in human nature and social functions but dāna is a virtue in itself, as doing good lifts the nature of one who gives. The texts do not recommend charity to unworthy recipients or where charity may harm or encourage injury to or by the recipient. Dāna, thus, is a dharmic act, requires idealistic-normative approach, and has spiritual and philosophical context. Some medieval era authors state that \"dāna\" is best done with \"shraddha\" (faith), which is defined as being in good will, cheerful, welcoming the recipient of the charity and giving without \"anasuya\" (finding faults in the recipient). These scholars of Hinduism, states Kohler, suggest that charity is most effective when it is done with delight, a sense of \"unquestioning hospitality\", where the \"dāna\" ignores the short term weaknesses as well as the circumstances of the recipient and takes a long term view.\n\n\"Satrams\", also called \"Dharamsala\" or \"Chathrams\" in parts of India, have been one means of alms-giving in Hinduism. Satrams are shelters (rest house) for travelers and the poor, with many serving water and free food. These were usually established along the roads connecting major Hindu temple sites in south Asia, as well as near major temples.\n\nHindu temples have served as institutions for alms-giving. The \"dāna\" the temples received from Hindus were used to feed people in distress as well as fund public projects such as irrigation and land reclamation. Other forms of alms-giving in Hinduism includes donating means of economic activity and food source. For example, Go Dāna (donation of a cow), Bhu Dāna (भू दान) (donation of land), and \"Vidya Dāna\" or Jňana Dāna (विद्या दान, ज्ञान दान): gift of knowledge and skills, \"Aushadhā Dāna\": Charity of care for the sick and diseased, \"Abhay Dāna\": Giving freedom from fear (asylum, protection to someone facing imminent injury), and \"Anna Dāna\" (अन्ना दान): Giving food to the poor, needy and all visitors. Between giving food and giving knowledge, Hindu texts suggest the gift of knowledge is superior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3319906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3319906", "title": "Anthropotokos", "text": "Anthropotokos\n\nAnthropotokos (Greek: ἄνθρωποτόκος) is a title that was ascribed to Mary the Mother of Jesus by certain Christians around the time of the Nestorian debates. It literally means \"the one who gives birth to a man\" (ἄνθρωπος, man; τόκος, parturition, childbirth), but is also loosely translated as \"mother of man\", parallel to and contrasted with \"theotokos\". Both Cyril of Alexandria (representing the orthodox viewpoint) and Nestorius (representing the Nestorian view) rejected the use of this word.\n"}
{"id": "22829683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22829683", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Costa Rica", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Costa Rica\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Costa Rica begins when `Abdu'l-Bahá mentions it as one of the places Bahá'ís should take the religion to in 1919. However the first pioneers began to settle in Coast Rica in 1940 followed quickly by the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly being elected in San José in April 1941. The National Spiritual Assembly was first elected in 1961. As of 2009 Bahá'ís sources indicate the national community includes various peoples and tribes and over 4,000 members organized groups in over 30 locations throughout the country. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 13000 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The sixth of the tablets was the first to mention Latin American regions and was written on April 8, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The sixth tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919. After mentioning the need for the message of the religion to visit the Latin American countries `Abdu'l-Bahá continues:\n\n... becoming severed from rest and composure of the world, [they] may arise and travel throughout Alaska, the republic of Mexico, and south of Mexico in the Central American republics, such as Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and Belize...\n\nFollowing the Tablets and about the time of `Abdu'l-Bahá's passing in 1921, a few other Bahá'ís began moving to, or at least visiting, Latin America.\n\nShoghi Effendi, who was named `Abdu'l-Bahá's successor, wrote a cable on May 1, 1936 to the Bahá'í Annual Convention of the United States and Canada, and asked for the systematic implementation of `Abdu'l-Bahá's vision to begin. In his cable he wrote:\n\n\"Appeal to assembled delegates ponder historic appeal voiced by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". Urge earnest deliberation with incoming National Assembly to insure its complete fulfillment. First century of Bahá'í Era drawing to a close. Humanity entering outer fringes most perilous stage its existence. Opportunities of present hour unimaginably precious. Would to God every State within American Republic and every Republic in American continent might ere termination of this glorious century embrace the light of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh and establish structural basis of His World Order.\"\nFollowing the May 1st cable, another cable from Shoghi Effendi came on May 19 calling for permanent pioneers to be established in all the countries of Latin America. The Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada was appointed the Inter-America Committee to take charge of the preparations. During the 1937 Bahá'í North American Convention, Shoghi Effendi cabled advising the convention to prolong their deliberations to permit the delegates and the National Assembly to consult on a plan that would enable Bahá'ís to go to Latin America as well as to include the completion of the outer structure of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois. In 1937 the \"First Seven Year Plan\" (1937–44), which was an international plan designed by Shoghi Effendi, gave the American Bahá'ís the goal of establishing the Bahá'í Faith in every country in Latin America. With the spread of American Bahá'ís communities and assemblies began to form in 1938 across Latin America.\n\nIn March 1940 Gayle Woolson came from the United States as the first pioneer to settle in Costa Rica. She was joined by Almalia Ford before April when they, along with four Costa Ricans, held a memorial service for the death of May Maxwell. There were four Costa Ricans convert to the religion by August 1940. In October 1940 the group was able to have printed a translation of a pamphlet authored by Shoghi Effendi characterizing the religion. By March 1941 there were 10 Bahá'ís in San José and they were able to elect the first local spiritual assembly in San José in April 1941 and by November a study group was established in the Puntarenas Province.\n\nAfter starting plans in January 1941 for a radio broadcast by Ford covering Central and South America the broadcast was successfully accomplished November 26, 1941. By June 1942 magazines in Costa Rica were publishing stories on the religion including \"Repertorio Americano\" of Joaquín García Monge. After first arriving in Panama in January 1940 and working for a time in San Salvador John Eichenauer pioneered in Costa Rica starting October 1941 for a time and his activities were covered in local newspapers before he moved onto Honduras in 1942. He was drafted by June 1943 and left the area. Eichenauer would later play an important role in the re-development of the Bahá'í Faith in Germany. After the first conversions in January 1942 in April 1943 an assembly was elected in Puntarenas and by June a group studying the religion began in Alajuela Province.\n\nAn All-American Convention was held in 1944, and Raul Contreras was the delegate from Costa Rica. At the same time, Gerardo Vega, of Costa Rica, was the first Latin-American native to pioneer when he began work in Panama. After 1946 Woolson became more involved in developments in Panama and a regional committee overseeing Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua was appointed. In January 1947 Panama City hosted the first congress of the northern Latin Americas to build a new consciousness of unity among the Bahá'ís of Central America, Mexico and the West Indies to focus energies for the election of a regional national assembly. Its members were Josi Antonio Bonilla, Marcia Steward, Natalia Chávez, Gerardo Vega, and Oscar Castro. By July 1947 Costa Rican pioneer Marcia Steward was appointed secretary of the committee and planning a periodical for the region. Secretary for this publication would be Guillermo Arias. Retrospectively a stated purpose for the committee was to facilitate a shift in the balance of roles from North American guidance and Latin cooperation to Latin guidance and North American cooperation. The process was well underway by 1950 and was to be enforced about 1953.\n\nAt the Panamanian conference Steward mentioned a campaign had begun and demanded her return to Costa Rica. It was explained more in May 1947 that she and others had advertised in major newspapers of several cities along these lines:\n\nWe are seeking people of good will to organize a Center of Study and Teaching founded on the following principles (a formulation of Bahá'í teachings). This movement already has affiliated groups established in all the major countries of the world, which function by means of the collective consultation of all their members. Without obligation, you may ask for literature and every kind of information by writing to (address in San Jose). \n\nFrom this advertising 45 enquiries came. In response to these letters individual letters were returned with pamphlets. Upon further letters pains were taken to answer questions and the enquirer was asked if they wanted to start a class in their area and receive Bahá'í literature. Over time and further communication further books were sent and then they were offered a declaration card, and if registered they were offered the chance to form a registered group. In this fashion groups of Bahá'ís were established in Quepos, Limón, Turrialba, Ciudad Quesada, aka San Carlos, and Heredia. In 1947 there was an assembly elected in Quepos though the brief Costa Rican Civil War stopped its meetings for a time. By October 1947 this method was being used in Chile (and continued at least into 1966.) Chile returned the favor when Lucha G. de Padilla, wife of the former consul-general of Chile to the United States, came to Costa Rica in May 1948 after joining the religion by January 1942 though Costa Rica was increasingly sending out pioneers of its own. However, there was disruption in the community that required \"re-activating\" the community in San Jose by April 1950, other assemblies having failed to be re-elected though the regional committees continued operation.\n\nA regional National Spiritual Assembly for Central America in 1951 when also the Quepos assembly was re-elected. A letter of the regional assembly noted that \"Considerable attention is being paid to stressing the need throughout the area of a much greater understanding of the administration of the religion. Local assemblies are being taught, by means of the National Teaching Committee and the Baha'i Bulletin to acquire a much higher concept of their own importance as governing bodies. They are being groomed slowly but surely to realize that they are not merely groups of nine people gathered together in a purely spiritual unity, but nine members of a governing body, gathered together to maintain order and peace in their own communities, resolve their problems through the medium of prayer and consultation and to devise efficient ways and means of spreading the Faith in the territory under their immediate jurisdiction.\" The second and third meeting of the regional assembly was held in San Jose. And San Jose hosted the second election of the regional assembly in April 1952. Hand of the Cause Dorothy Beecher Baker attended the convention. Another Hand of the Cause, Dhikru'llah Khadem, visited the reformed community in Limón in 1953. The 1954 elected regional assembly also met in San Jose and pioneers returned to Puntarenas and Heredia while the assembly of Escazu was again elected. In April 1956 Alajuela was again listed as an active community (but not an assembly yet.) In 1958 Esmarilda Thompson de Vega pioneered into the rural lands near Guanacaste. In July 1960 the last convention for the regional assembly was again held in San Jose.\n\nIn 1961 Costa Rican Bahá'ís elected their own National Spiritual Assembly with its seat in Uruca. The convention was attended by Hand of the Cause Dhikru'llah Khadem. The elected assembly was composed of Esteban Canales, Richard Milkovich, Humberto Ulloa F., Theodore Cortazzi, Antonio Soto G., Jose Barquero, Edgard Gomez, Aaron Barnes, John Rutan. A number of pioneers came and went over the period into the 1960s and assembly statuses fluctuated - two assemblies were noted in 1963 in Escazu and San José. In 1963 the members of the National Assembly, and thus participated in the first election of the Universal House of Justice, were Jose Baltodano, Aaron J. Bames, Esteban Canales, Theodore Cortazzi, Jean Dobbs, Richard Mirkovich, John Rutan, Antonio Soto, and Fernando Soto.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. Below you will find a number of internal and external projects Bahá'ís in Costa Rica have entered into over the years. Meanwhile, there were developments in the religion in other ways too. In 1984-5 official and semi-official visits by distinguished visitors to the Bahá'í World Centre have increased and included the ambassador to Israel from Costa Rica at roughly the same time musicians from 14 countries met for an international conference for Baha'i musicians, including Charles Wolcott, which served as an exhibition of indigenous dance and music, a memorial to Bahá'ís suffering Persecution and an opportunity to visit a local children's hospital, orphanage, a school and a local theatre to play for children and staff - two traveling musicians joined the religion during the conference. At the end of 1985 Costa Rica co-sponsored Resolution 40/141 of the United Nations General Assembly adopted by a vote of 53-30 with 45 abstentions concerning the human rights situation in Iran even though a number of Arab and Muslim delegations made it clear that they would support the resolution if, and only if, the references to the Bahá'ís were deleted. About the same time the Bahá'ís of Costa Rica hosted an awards banquet for Human Rights giving awards to Luis Demetrio Tinoco Castro, the original delegate from Costa Rica for the founding of the United Nations, and the first signatory of the first statement on human rights offered by the UN. In 1987 Bahá'ís hosted an even at the national center by inviting people from Taiwan, Korea and Indonesia in Costa Rica to an International Bahá'í Dinner. Also in 1987 the Bahá'ís of Costa Rica co-sponsored a Family Education for Peace seminar at University for Peace with the Society of the Friends (Quacker) at which a number of papers were presented from authors across North America. About 30 Bahá'ís from eight countries participated in a similar seminar held with an interfaith prayer service for peace sponsored by (and at) the University for Peace and the government of Costa Rica in 1990 - the interfaith service was televised live in Costa Rica.\n\nRuth (née Yancey) Pringle is among the Bahá'ís who pioneered to Costa Rica, moving in 1953 and lived in various Latin American countries and served in various positions until she was named as a Continental Counselor in 1980 and then she lived many of her last years in Costa Rica until she died in 2003. Cecilia King Blake is among those that continued to arrive and lived there since the 1970s and is named as having an influence on the growth of the religion across Costa Rica and nearby countries. Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum visited Costa Rica in 1981 as part of visiting six Central American countries. In Costa Rica she met president Rodrigo Carazo Odio, one of his advisers and spent nearly an hour with the president's wife. She also participated in a weekend conference for believers, spoke at a large public meeting and a unity feast, and made a trip by air to Talamanca.\n\nAfter the national assembly sponsored a four-day Indian school in Amubri, Talamanca near the Sixaola River. In the national convention of 1964 members of the Talamanca and Terraba (see Indigenous peoples of Costa Rica) were among the delegates. In 1966 construction began on a new teaching institute on the Bahá'í endowment property in Alajuela and also in 1966 the community raised the number of assemblies from fourteen to twenty. In February 1970 pioneer family of Samuel and Teresa Garcia and their four children, native Costa Ricans, in February 1970 to the area of Guanacaste seeking to identify members of lapsed communities. Come April 1970 eight Local Assemblies were re-established following which a number of programs were initiated to solidify the understanding of some of these new Bahá'ís. In 1980 two teams of Native American Baha'is from Alaska, Canada and the United States representing 10 tribes under the name \"Trail of Light\" traveled from the north to the south starting mid June and taught in Mexico, Belize, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Panama, Bolivia, Chile, Peru and finally Ecuador. While in Panama they gathered with more than 1,000 Guaymi Bahá'ís joined by Costa Rican Guaymi, Talamanca, Teribe representatives and they agreed on founding a Native Council for the Panamanian and Costa Rican tribes. In 1984 a reprise of the 'Trail of Light' was undertaken when an international team of five Bahá'ís spent 17 days in Guatemala; they were a Mapuche Indian from Chile, a Quechua from Peru, a Bribri from Costa Rica, and two Guaymis from Panama. A beautification project in 1984 was held in Guanacaste province inspired by the Bahá'í gardens on Mt. Carmel as well as reading prayers - thirty people joined the religion during the project. There was also a chance to record some Bribri chanted prayers which would be broadcast on the radio. A 1984-5 continuation of the 'Trail of Light' process brought Costa Rican indigenous Bahá'ís into Veracruz Mexico. In 1988 Costa Rica was represented at the fifth Continental Indigenous Council among the 400 participants.\n\nThe first international Baha'i Youth Conference held in Costa Rica came about in 1972 two days after the Managua earthquake. However a minibus full of young people came through Honduras with only minor difficulties and two Nicaraguan youth got through. Total attendance was about seventy-five. 1977 also saw the first time a Bahá'í float was entered in one of the annualfestivals in Santa Cruz. A larger conference of about 200 gathered in January 1978. Some of the attendees, together with various adults, then took a trip into Guanacaste province where over a short time 14 new assemblies were founded and then they extended work into Meseta province (see San Ramón for mention of this remote province) where several groups were re-contacted and a new assembly elected. In 1983 the Universal House of Justice recognized the twin youth conferences of Honduras and Costa Rica held in early March - a challenge representing a substantial increase in the number of youth Bahá'ís - and called on them to consider the example of `Abdu'l-Bahá in civilizing influences they should undertake individually and collectively. In the fall of 1984 a permanent site for the National Youth Institute was chosen and plans were developed for it to serve as a center for the arts and performance, agriculture and outreach programs. A television crew made up of two youth from EI Salvador, a Bahá'í from Venezuela, and two non-Baha'i volunteers filmed Costa Rica's 1988 international youth conference which was attended by 120 people for a program to be aired in El Salvador.\n\nIn early 1976 Bahá'í women from many northern Latin American countries including Costa Rica gathered in El Salvador for a women's conference sponsored by the Continental Counselors of Central America and the event included meetings among the Bahá'ís only as well as invited non-Bahá'ís. Some of the attendees called for further meetings and in 1977 the National Women's Committee decided to sponsor monthly teas in communities all over Costa Rica which continued into 1979. The purpose of the teas was to give Bahá'í and non-Babá'í women a chance to discuss their changing role in society, and also for non-Babá'ís to hear of the religion. Men have asked to attend and help though the focus of the discussions remained the role of women and the equality of women and men. In early 1977 an unusual conference, composed of 1/3 indigenous believers from across Central America - and some non-Bahá'í family members of them were allowed to fully attend the meeting - held in Mérida, Mexico. Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico were priority goal areas for them. In early 1980 the Bahá'í Committee for the Education of Women and Children organized a day-long institute where one hundred children ages 3 to 14 and 35 adults participated in a village. In 1985 fifty-eight people from six of the seven provinces attended a Bahá'í Women's Conference which was planned to help strengthen contact between Bahá'í women of various groups in Costa Rica and to clarify the role of women in the religion. Presentations were made on the lives of May Maxwell and Martha Root and mentioned local Bahá'í women who pioneered to Costa Rica when the religion was first being established in Costa Rica.\n\nBy 1975 there were thirty-eight assemblies in Guanacaste and a total of 50 across Costa Rica. The national community is made includes both citizens of the , Guanacaste, Puntarenas and Limón provinces, and indigenous peoples Bribri, Cabecar and Guaymí. The Bahá'ís estimate the membership in Costa Rica at 4,000 members and has organized communities in over 30 locations throughout the country. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 13402 Bahá'ís.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "20700461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20700461", "title": "Bolina", "text": "Bolina\n\nIn Greek mythology, Bolina (Ancient Greek: Βολίνα) or Boline (Βολίνη) was a nymph. According to Pausanias, Bolina was once a mortal maiden of Achaea. She was loved by the god Apollo, and when he attempted to approach her, Bolina fled from him and threw herself into the sea to escape his advances. Thereupon the god made her immortal. On the spot where Bolina fell into the sea, the town Bolina was founded.\n\n"}
{"id": "48594911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48594911", "title": "Buddha (title)", "text": "Buddha (title)\n\nIn Buddhism, Buddha (; Sanskrit: बुद्ध), \"awakened one,\" is a title for someone who is awake, and has attained nirvana and Buddhahood. The title is most commonly used for Gautama Buddha, the founder of Buddhism, who is often simply known as \"the Buddha\". However, the title can also be used for others who have achieved enlightenment, such as the other human Buddhas who achieved enlightment before Gautama, the five celestial Buddhas worshipped primarily by Vajrayana followers, and the bodhisattva named Maitreya, who will achieve enlightment in the future and succeed Gautama Buddha as the supreme Buddha of the world.\n\nThe word \"Buddha\" means \"the awakened one\" or \"the enlightened one\". According to the Chinese Buddhist tradition, the title is literally translated as \"the knowing one\". \"Buddha\" is also used as a title for the first awakened being in a Yuga era. In most Buddhist traditions, Siddhartha Gautama is regarded as the supreme Buddha (Pali \"sammāsambuddha\", Sanskrit \"samyaksaṃbuddha\") of the present age.\n\nHypothetical root \"budh\" \"perceive\" 1. Pali \"buddha\" – \"understood, enlightened\", masculine \"the \"Buddha\"\"; Aśokan (the language of the Inscriptions of Aśoka) \"Budhe\" nominative singular; Prakrit \"buddha\" – ‘ known, awakened ’; Waigalī \"būdāī\", \"truth\"; Bashkarīk \"budh\" \"he heard\"; Shina Gilgitī dialect \"budo\", \"awake\"; Kashmiri \"bọ̆du\", \"quick of understanding (especially of a child)\"; Sinhalese \"buj\" (\"j\" written for \"d\"), \"budu\", \"bud\", \"but\", \"the Buddha\". The term is mirrored in various Indo-European languages with a common root/stem: *bheud- and meanings: to be awakened.\n\nBuddhavamsa named 25 Buddhas including Gautama in section three until twenty seven, while the twenty eight section lists three Buddhas who lived before the time of Dipankara Buddha.\n\nThe seven most recent Buddhas to attain enlightment are the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112366", "title": "Celtic polytheism", "text": "Celtic polytheism\n\nCeltic polytheism, commonly known as Celtic paganism, comprises the religious beliefs and practices adhered to by the Iron Age people of Western Europe now known as the Celts, roughly between 500 BCE and 500 CE, spanning the La Tène period and the Roman era, and in the case of the Insular Celts the British and Irish Iron Age.\n\nCeltic polytheism was one of a larger group of Iron Age polytheistic religions of the Indo-European family. It comprised a large degree of variation both geographically and chronologically, although \"behind this variety, broad structural similarities can be detected\" allowing there to be \"a basic religious homogeneity\" among the Celtic peoples.\n\nThe Celtic pantheon consists of numerous recorded theonyms, both from Greco-Roman ethnography and from epigraphy. Among the most prominent ones are Teutatis, Taranis and Lugus.\nFigures from medieval Irish mythology have also been interpreted as iterations of earlier pre-Christian Insular deities in the study of comparative mythology.\n\nAccording to Greek and Roman accounts, in Gaul, Britain and Ireland, there was a priestly caste of \"magico-religious specialists\" known as the druids, although very little is definitely known about them.\n\nFollowing the Roman Empire's conquest of Gaul (58–51 BCE) and southern Britannia (43 CE), Celtic religious practices began to display elements of Romanisation, resulting in a syncretic Gallo-Roman culture with its own religious traditions with its own large set of deities, such as Cernunnos, Artio, Telesphorus, etc.\n\nIn the later 5th and the 6th centuries, the Celtic region was Christianized and earlier religious traditions were supplanted. However, the polytheistic traditions left a legacy in many of the Celtic nations, influenced later mythology, and served as the basis for a new religious movement, Celtic Neopaganism, in the 20th century.\n\nComparatively little is known about Celtic polytheism because the evidence for it is fragmentary, due largely to the fact that the Celts who practiced it wrote nothing down about their religion. Therefore, all we have to study their religion from is the literature from the early Christian period, commentaries from classical Greek and Roman scholars, and archaeological evidence.\n\nThe archaeologist Barry Cunliffe summarised the sources for Celtic religion as \"fertile chaos\", borrowing the term from the Irish scholar Proinsias MacCana. Cunliffe went on to note that \"there is more, varied, evidence for Celtic religion than for any other example of Celtic life. The only problem is to assemble it in a systematic form which does not too greatly oversimplify the intricate texture of its detail.\"\n\nThe archaeological evidence does not contain the bias inherent in the literary sources. Nonetheless, the interpretation of this evidence can be colored by the 21st century mindset.\n\nVarious archaeological discoveries have aided understanding of the religion of the Celts. These include the coins of the Roman provinces in the Celtic lands of \"Gaul\", \"Raetia\", \"Noricum\", and \"Britannia\", and another is the sculptures, monuments, and inscriptions associated with the Celts. Most of the monuments and their accompanying inscriptions belong to the Roman period and reflect a considerable degree of syncretism between Celtic and Roman gods; even where figures and motifs appear to derive from pre-Roman tradition, they are difficult to interpret in the absence of a preserved literature on mythology. A notable example of this is the horned god that was called Cernunnos; several depictions and inscriptions of him have been found, but very little is known about the myths that would have been associated with him or how he was worshiped.\n\nLiterary evidence for Celtic religion also comes from sources written in Ireland and Wales during the Middle Ages, a period when traditional Celtic religious practices had become extinct and had long been replaced by Christianity. The evidence from Ireland has been recognised as better than that from Wales, being viewed as \"both older and less contaminated from foreign material.\" These sources, which are in the form of epic poems and tales, were written several centuries after Christianity became the dominant religion in these regions, and were written down by Christian monks, \"who may not merely have been hostile to the earlier paganism but actually ignorant of it.\" Instead of treating the characters as deities, they are allocated the roles of being historical heroes who sometimes have supernatural or superhuman powers, for instance, in the Irish sources the gods are claimed to be an ancient tribe of humans known as the Tuatha Dé Danann. \n\nWhile it is possible to single out specific texts that can be strongly argued to encapsulate genuine echoes or resonances of the pre-Christian past, opinion is divided as to whether these texts contain substantive material derived from oral tradition as preserved by bards or whether they were the creation of the medieval monastic tradition.\n\nVarious Greek and Roman writers of the ancient world commented on the Celts and their beliefs. Barry Cunliffe stated that \"the Greek and Roman texts provide a number of pertinent observations, but these are at best anecdotal, offered largely as a colourful background by writers whose prime intention was to communicate other messages.\" The Roman general Julius Caesar, when leading the conquering armies of the Roman Republic against Celtic Gaul, made various descriptions of the inhabitants, though some of his claims, such as that the Druids practiced human sacrifice by burning people in wicker men, have come under scrutiny by modern scholars.\n\nHowever, the key problem with the use of these sources is that they were often biased against the Celts, whom the classical peoples viewed as \"barbarians\". In the case of the Romans who conquered several Celtic realms, they would have likely been biased in favour of making the Celts look uncivilised, thereby giving the \"civilised\" Romans more reason to conquer them.\n\nCeltic religion was polytheistic, believing in many deities, both gods and goddesses, some of which were venerated only in a small, local area, but others whose worship had a wider geographical distribution. The names of over two hundred of these deities have survived to us today, although it is possible that some of these names were different titles or epithets used for the same deity.\n\nSome Celtic theonyms can be established as Pan-Celtic (descending from the Common Celtic period) by comparing Continental with Insular Celtic evidence. An example of this is Gaulish Lugus, whose name is cognate with Irish Lugh and Welsh Lleu.\nAnother example is Gaulish Brigantia, cognate with Irish Brigid. This latter theonym can even be reconstructed as a Proto-Indo-European epithet of the dawn goddess, as \"*bhr̥g'hntī\" \"the one on high\".\n\nSome of the Greek and Roman accounts mention various deities worshipped in Gaul; for instance Lucan noted the names of Teutates, Taranis and Esus, although Julius Caesar instead conflated the Celtic Gaulish deities with those of Roman religion, and did not mention their native Gaulish names. He declared that the most widely venerated god in Gaul was Mercury, the Roman god of trade, but that they also worshipped Apollo, Minerva, Mars and Jupiter.\n\nAccording to Classical era sources, the Celts worshiped the forces of nature and did not envisage deities in anthropomorphic terms, as other \"pagan\" peoples such as the Greeks, Romans, and Egyptians did. Whether or not this is true, as the classical peoples grew in influence over the Celtic cultures, it encouraged the depiction of deities in human forms, and they appear to move from a more animistic-based faith to a more Romanised polytheistic view.\n\nSeveral of these deities, including Lugus and Matrones, were triple deities.\n\nIn the Irish and Welsh vernacular sources from the Middle Ages, various human mythological figures were featured who have been thought of by many scholars as being based upon earlier gods. The historian Ronald Hutton however cautioned against automatically equating all Irish and Welsh mythological figures as former deities, noting that while some characters \"who appear to be human, such as Medb or St Brigit, probably were indeed once regarded as divine ... the warriors who are the main protagonists of the stories have the same status as those in the Greek myths, standing between the human and divine orders. To regard characters such as Cú Chulainn, Fergus Mac Roich or Conall Cernach as former gods turned into humans by a later storyteller is to misunderstand their literary and religious function ... Cú Chulainn is no more a former god than Superman is.\"\n\nExamining these Irish myths, Barry Cunliffe stated that he believed they displayed \"a dualism between the male tribal god and the female deity of the land\" while Anne Ross felt that they displayed that the gods were \"on the whole intellectual, deeply versed in the native learning, poets and prophets, story-tellers and craftsmen, magicians, healers, warriors ... in short, equipped with every quality admired and desired by the Celtic peoples themselves.\"\n\nInsular Celts swore their oaths by their tribal gods, and the land, sea and sky; as in, \"I swear by the gods by whom my people swear\" and \"If I break my oath, may the land open to swallow me, the sea rise to drown me, and the sky fall upon me.\"\n\nSome scholars, such as Prudence Jones and Nigel Pennick, have speculated that the Celts venerated certain trees and others, such as Miranda Aldhouse-Green, that the Celts were animists, believing that all aspects of the natural world contained spirits, and that communication was possible with these spirits.\n\nPlaces such as rocks, streams, mountains, and trees may all have had shrines or offerings devoted to a deity residing there. These would have been local deities, known and worshiped by inhabitants living near to the shrine itself, and not pan-Celtic like some of the polytheistic gods. The importance of trees in Celtic religion may be shown by the fact that the very name of the Eburonian tribe contains a reference to the yew tree, and that names like Mac Cuilinn (son of holly) and Mac Ibar (son of yew) appear in Irish myths. In Ireland, wisdom was symbolised by the salmon who feed on the hazelnuts from the trees that surround the well of wisdom (\"Tobar Segais\").\n\nCeltic burial practices, which included burying food, weapons, and ornaments with the dead, suggest a belief in life after death.\n\nThe druids, the Celtic learned classes that included members of the clergy, were said by Caesar to have believed in reincarnation and transmigration of the soul along with astronomy and the nature and power of the gods.\n\nA common factor in later mythologies from Christianized Celtic nations was the otherworld. This was the realm of the fairy folk and other supernatural beings, who would entice humans into their realm. Sometimes this otherworld was claimed to exist underground, while at other times it was said to lie far to the west. Several scholars have suggested that the otherworld was the Celtic afterlife, though there is no direct evidence to prove this.\n\nEvidence suggests that among the Celts, \"offerings to the gods were made throughout the landscape – both the natural and the domestic.\" At times they worshipped in constructed temples and shrines, evidence for which have been unearthed across the Celtic world by archaeologists, although according to Greco-Roman accounts, they also worshipped in areas of the natural world that were held to be sacred, namely in groves of trees. Across Celtic Europe, many of the constructed temples, which were square in shape and constructed out of wood, were found in rectangular ditched enclosures known as \"viereckschanzen\", where in cases such as Holzhausen in Bavaria votive offerings were also buried in deep shafts. However, in the British Isles, temples were more commonly circular in design. According to Barry Cunliffe, \"the monumentality of the Irish religious sites sets them apart from their British and continental European counterparts\" with the most notable example being the Hill of Tara.\n\nHowever, according to Greco-Roman accounts of the druids and other Celts, worship was held in groves, with Tacitus describing how his men cut down \"groves sacred to savage rites.\" By their very nature, such groves would not survive in the archaeological record, and so we have no direct evidence for them today. Alongside groves, certain springs were also viewed as sacred and used as places of worship in the Celtic world. Notable Gaulish examples include the sanctuary of Sequana at the source of the Seine in Burgundy and Chamalieres near to Clermont-Ferrand. At both of these sites, a large array of votive offerings have been uncovered, most of which are wooden carvings, although some of which are embossed pieces of metal.\n\nIn many cases, when the Roman Empire took control of Celtic lands, earlier Iron Age sacred sites were reused, with Roman temples being built on the same sites. Examples include Uley in Gloucestershire, Worth in Kent, Hayling Island in Hampshire, Vendeuil-Caply in Oise, Saint-Germain-le-Rocheux in Chatillon-sur-Seine and Schleidweiler in Trier.\n\nThe Celts made votive offerings to their deities, which were buried in the earth or thrown into rivers or bogs. According to Barry Cunliffe, in most cases, deposits were placed in the same places on numerous occasions, indicating continual usage \"over a period of time, perhaps on a seasonal basis or when a particular event, past or pending, demanded a propitiatory response.\"\n\nIn particular, there was a trend to offer items associated with warfare in watery areas, evidence for which is found not only in the Celtic regions, but also in Late Bronze Age (and therefore pre-Celtic) societies and those outside of the Celtic area, namely Denmark. One of the most notable examples is the river Thames in southern England, where a number of items had been deposited, only to be discovered by archaeologists millennia later. Some of these, like the Battersea Shield, Wandsworth Shield and the Waterloo Helmet, would have been prestige goods that would have been labour-intensive to make and thereby probably expensive. Another example is at Llyn Cerrig Bach in Anglesey, Wales, where offerings, primarily those related to battle, were thrown into the lake from a rocky outcrop in the late first century BCE or early first century CE.\n\nAt times, jewellery and other high prestige items that were not related to warfare were also deposited in a ritual context. At Niederzier in the Rhineland for example, a post that excavators believed had religious significance had a bowl buried next to it in which was contained forty-five coins, two torcs and an armlet, all of which made out of gold, and similar deposits have been uncovered elsewhere in Celtic Europe.\n\nAccording to Roman sources, Celtic Druids engaged extensively in human sacrifice. According to Julius Caesar, the slaves and dependents of Gauls of rank would be burnt along with the body of their master as part of his funerary rites. He also describes how they built wicker figures that were filled with living humans and then burned. According to Cassius Dio, Boudica's forces impaled Roman captives during her rebellion against the Roman occupation, to the accompaniment of revelry and sacrifices in the sacred groves of Andate. Different gods reportedly required different kinds of sacrifices. Victims meant for Esus were hanged, Tollund Man being an example, those meant for Taranis immolated and those for Teutates drowned. Some, like the Lindow Man, may have gone to their deaths willingly.\n\nRitual decapitation was a major religious and cultural practice which has found copious support in the archaeological record, including the numerous skulls discovered in Londinium's River Walbrook and the 12 headless corpses at the French late Iron Age sanctuary of Gournay-sur-Aronde.\n\nThe iconography of the human head is believed by many archaeologists and historians to have played a significant part in Celtic religion. The Greek historian Diodorus Siculus, writing in the 1st century BCE, described how Celtic warriors \"cut off the heads of enemies slain in battle and attach them to the necks of their horses.\" Strabo meanwhile commented in the same century that until the Roman authorities put a stop to it, among the Celts, \"the heads of enemies held in high repute they used to embalm in cedar oil and exhibit to strangers.\" Archaeological evidence indicating that the Celts did indeed behead humans and then display their heads, possibly for religious purposes, has been unearthed at a number of excavations; one notable example of this was found at the Gaulish site of Entremont near to Aix-en-Provence, where a fragment of a pillar carved with images of skulls was found, within which were niches where actual human skulls were kept, nailed into position, fifteen examples of which were found.\n\nThe archaeologist Barry Cunliffe believed that the Celts held \"reverence for the power of the head\" and that \"to own and display a distinguished head was to retain and control the power of the dead person\" while the archaeologist Anne Ross asserted that \"the Celts venerated the head as a symbol of divinity and the powers of the otherworld, and regarded it as the most important bodily member, the very seat of the soul.\" The archaeologist Miranda Aldhouse-Green meanwhile stated that \"I refute any suggestion that the head itself was worshipped but it was clearly venerated as the most significant element in a human or divine image representing the whole.\" The historian Ronald Hutton however criticised the idea of the \"cult of the human head\", believing that both the literary and archaeological evidence did not warrant this conclusion, noting that \"the frequency with which human heads appears upon Celtic metalwork proves nothing more than they were a favourite decorative motif, among several, and one just as popular among non-Celtic peoples.\"\n\nAccording to a number of Greco-Roman writers such as Julius Caesar, Cicero, Tacitus and Pliny the Elder, Gaulish and British society held a group of magico-religious specialists known as the druids in high esteem. Their roles and responsibilities differed somewhat between the different accounts, but Caesar's, which was the \"fullest\" and \"earliest original text\" to describe the druids, described them as being concerned with \"divine worship, the due performance of sacrifices, private or public, and the interpretation of ritual questions.\" He also claimed that they were responsible for officiating at human sacrifices, such as the wicker man burnings. Nonetheless, a number of historians have criticised these such accounts, believing them to be biased or inaccurate. Vernacular Irish sources also referred to the druids, portraying them not only as priests but as sorcerers who had supernatural powers that they used for cursing and divination and who opposed the coming of Christianity. Various historians and archaeologists have interpreted the druids in different ways; Peter Berresford Ellis for instance believed them to be the equivalents of the Indian Brahmin caste, while Anne Ross believed that they were essentially tribal priests, having more in common with the shamans of tribal societies than with the classical philosophers. Ronald Hutton meanwhile held a particularly sceptical attitude to many claims made about them, and he supported the view that the evidence available was of such a suspicious nature that \"we can know virtually nothing of certainty about the ancient Druids, so that – although they certainly existed – they function more or less as legendary figures.\"\n\nIn Ireland the fili were visionary poets, which many get confused with Vates, associated with lorekeeping, versecraft, and the memorisation of vast numbers of poems. They were also magicians, as Irish magic is intrinsically connected to poetry, and the satire of a gifted poet was a serious curse upon the one being satirised. To run afoul of a poet was a dangerous thing indeed to a people who valued reputation and honor more than life itself. In Ireland a \"bard\" was considered a lesser grade of poet than a \"fili\" – more of a minstrel and rote reciter than an inspired artist with magical powers. However, in Wales \"bardd\" was the word for their visionary poets, and used in the same manner \"fili\" was in Ireland and Scotland.\n\nThe Celtic poets, of whatever grade, were composers of eulogy and satire, and a chief duty was that of composing and reciting verses on heroes and their deeds, and memorising the genealogies of their patrons. It was essential to their livelihood that they increase the fame of their patrons, via tales, poems and songs. As early as the 1st century CE, the Latin author Lucan referred to \"bards\" as the national poets or minstrels of Gaul and Britain. In Gaul the institution gradually disappeared, whereas in Ireland and Wales it survived. The Irish bard through chanting preserved a tradition of poetic eulogy. In Wales, where the word \"bardd\" has always been used for poet, the bardic order was codified into distinct grades in the 10th century. Despite a decline of the order toward the end of the European Middle Ages, the Welsh tradition has persisted and is celebrated in the annual eisteddfod, a national assembly of poets and musicians.\n\nThe oldest attested Celtic calendar is the Coligny calendar, dated to the 2nd century and as such firmly within the Gallo-Roman period.\n\nSome feast days of the medieval Irish calendar have sometimes been speculated to descend from prehistoric festivals, especially by comparison to terms found in the Coligny calendar. This concerns Beltane in particular, which is attributed ancient origin by medieval Irish writers.\nThe festivals of Samhain and Imbolc are not associated with \"paganism\" or druidry in Irish legend, but there have nevertheless been suggestions of a prehistoric background since the 19th century, in the case of Samhain by John Rhys and James Frazer who assumed that this festival marked the \"Celtic new year\".\n\nThe Celtic peoples of Gaul and Hispania under Roman rule fused Roman religious forms and modes of worship with indigenous traditions.\nIn some cases, Gaulish deity names were used as epithets for Roman deities, as with Lenus Mars or Jupiter Poeninus. In other cases, Roman gods were given Gaulish female partners – for example, Mercury was paired with Rosmerta and Sirona was partnered with Apollo. In at least one case – that of the equine goddess Epona – a native Celtic goddess was also adopted by Romans. This process of identifying Celtic deities with their Roman counterparts was known as Interpretatio romana.\n\nEastern mystery religions penetrated Gaul early on. These included the cults of Orpheus, Mithras, Cybele, and Isis.\nThe imperial cult, centred primarily on the \"numen\" of Augustus, came to play a prominent role in public religion in Gaul, most dramatically at the pan-Gaulish ceremony venerating Rome and Augustus at the Condate Altar near Lugdunum on 1 August.\n\nGenerally Roman worship practices such as offerings of incense and animal sacrifice, dedicatory inscriptions, and naturalistic statuary depicting deities in anthropomorphic form were combined with specific Gaulish practices such as circumambulation around a temple. This gave rise to a characteristic Gallo-Roman fanum, identifiable in archaeology from its concentric shape.\n\nThe conversion to Christianity (Christianization) inevitably had a profound effect on this socio-religious system from the 5th century onward, though its character can only be extrapolated from documents of considerably later date. By the early 7th century the church had succeeded in relegating Irish druids to ignominious irrelevancy, while the \"filidh,\" masters of traditional learning, operated in easy harmony with their clerical counterparts, contriving at the same time to retain a considerable part of their pre-Christian tradition, social status, and privilege. But virtually all the vast corpus of early vernacular literature that has survived was written down in monastic scriptoria, and it is part of the task of modern scholarship to identify the relative roles of traditional continuity and ecclesiastical innovation as reflected in the written texts. Cormac's Glossary (c. 900 CE) recounts that St. Patrick banished those mantic rites of the \"filidh\" that involved offerings to \"demons\", and that the church took particular pains to stamp out animal sacrifice and other rituals repugnant to Christian teaching. What survived of ancient ritual practice tended to be related to \"filidhecht\", the traditional repertoire of the \"filidh\", or to the central institution of sacral kingship. A good example is the pervasive and persistent concept of the hierogamy (sacred marriage) of the king with the goddess of sovereignty: the sexual union, or \"banais ríghi\" (\"wedding of kingship\"), which constituted the core of the royal inauguration, seems to have been purged from the ritual at an early date through ecclesiastical influence, but it remains at least implicit, and often quite explicit, for many centuries in the literary tradition.\n\nNagy has noted the Gaelic oral tradition has been remarkably conservative; the fact that we have tales in existence that were still being told in the 19th century in almost exactly the same form as they exist in ancient manuscripts leads to the strong probability that much of what the monks recorded was considerably older. Though the Christian interpolations in some of these tales are very obvious, many of them read like afterthoughts or footnotes to the main body of the tales, which most likely preserve traditions far older than the manuscripts themselves.\n\nMythology based on (though, not identical to) the pre-Christian traditions was still common place knowledge in Celtic-speaking cultures in the 19th century. In the Celtic Revival, such survivals were collected and edited, thus becoming a literary tradition, which in turn influenced modern mainstream \"Celticity\".\n\nVarious rituals involving acts of pilgrimage to sites such as hills and sacred wells that are believed to have curative or otherwise beneficial properties are still performed. Based on evidence from the European continent, various figures that are still known in folklore in the Celtic countries up to today, or who take part in post-Christian mythology, are known to have also been worshiped in those areas that did not have records before Christianity.\n\nIn \"Twilight of the Celtic Gods\" (1996), Clarke and Roberts describe a number of particularly conservative folkloristic traditions in remote rural areas of Great Britain, including the Peak District and Yorkshire Dales, including claims of surviving pre-Christian Celtic traditions of veneration of stones, trees and bodies of water.\n\nVarious Neopagan groups claim association with Celtic polytheism. These groups range from the Reconstructionists, who work to practice ancient Celtic religion with as much accuracy as possible; to new age, eclectic groups who take some of their inspiration from Celtic mythology and iconography, the most notable of which is Neo-druidry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18337522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18337522", "title": "Christian", "text": "Christian\n\nA Christian () is a person who follows or adheres to Christianity, an Abrahamic, monotheistic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. \"Christian\" derives from the Koine Greek word \"Christós\" (Χριστός), a translation of the Biblical Hebrew term \"mashiach\" (Biblical Hebrew: מָשִׁיחַ).\n\nWhile there are diverse interpretations of Christianity which sometimes conflict, they are united in believing that Jesus has a unique significance. The term \"Christian\" is also used as an adjective to describe anything associated with Christianity, or in a proverbial sense \"all that is noble, and good, and Christ-like.\"\n\nAccording to a 2011 Pew Research Center survey, there were 2.2 billion Christians around the world in 2010, up from about 600 million in 1910. By 2050, the Christian population is expected to exceed 3 billion. According to a 2012 Pew Research Center survey Christianity will remain the world's largest religion in 2050, if current trends continue.\n\nToday, about 37% of all Christians live in the Americas, about 26% live in Europe, 24% live in sub-Saharan Africa, about 13% live in Asia and the Pacific, and 1% live in the Middle East and North Africa. About half of all Christians worldwide are Catholic, while more than a third are Protestant (37%). Orthodox communions comprise 12% of the world's Christians. Other Christian groups make up the remainder. Christians make up the majority of the population in 158 countries and territories. 280 million Christians live as a minority.\n\nChristians have made noted contributions to a range of fields, including the sciences, arts, politics, literatures and business. According to \"100 Years of Nobel Prizes\", a review of Nobel prizes awarded between 1901 and 2000 reveals that (65.4%) of Nobel Prizes laureates identified Christianity in its various forms as their religious preference.\n\nThe Greek word (\"Christianos\"), meaning \"follower of Christ\", comes from (\"Christos\"), meaning \"anointed one\", with an adjectival ending borrowed from Latin to denote adhering to, or even belonging to, as in slave ownership. In the Greek Septuagint, \"christos\" was used to translate the Hebrew מָשִׁיחַ (\"Mašíaḥ,\" messiah), meaning \"[one who is] anointed.\" In other European languages, equivalent words to Christian are likewise derived from the Greek, such as \"Chrétien\" in French and \"Cristiano\" in Spanish.\n\nThe first recorded use of the term (or its cognates in other languages) is in the New Testament, in Acts 11:26, after Barnabas brought Saul (Paul) to Antioch where they taught the disciples for about a year, the text says: \"[...] the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch.\" The second mention of the term follows in Acts 26:28, where Herod Agrippa II replied to Paul the Apostle, \"Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.\" The third and final New Testament reference to the term is in 1 Peter 4:16, which exhorts believers: \"Yet if \"[any man suffer]\" as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him glorify God on this behalf.\"\n\nKenneth Samuel Wuest holds that all three original New Testament verses' usages reflect a derisive element in the term \"Christian\" to refer to followers of Christ who did not acknowledge the emperor of Rome. The city of Antioch, where someone gave them the name \"Christians\", had a reputation for coming up with such nicknames. However Peter's apparent endorsement of the term led to its being preferred over \"Nazarenes\" and the term \"Christianoi\" from 1 Peter becomes the standard term in the Early Church Fathers from Ignatius and Polycarp onwards.\n\nThe earliest occurrences of the term in non-Christian literature include Josephus, referring to \"the tribe of Christians, so named from him;\" Pliny the Younger in correspondence with Trajan; and Tacitus, writing near the end of the 1st century. In the \"Annals\" he relates that \"by vulgar appellation [they were] commonly called Christians\" and identifies Christians as Nero's scapegoats for the Great Fire of Rome.\n\nAnother term for Christians which appears in the New Testament is \"Nazarenes\". Jesus is named as a Nazarene in Math 2:23, while Saul-Paul is said to be Nazarene in Acts 24:5. The latter verse makes it clear that Nazarene also referred to the name of a sect or heresy, as well as the town called Nazareth. \n\nThe term Nazarene was also used by the Jewish lawyer Tertullus (\"Against Marcion\" 4:8) which records that \"the Jews call us Nazarenes.\" While around 331 AD Eusebius records that Christ was called a Nazoraean from the name Nazareth, and that in earlier centuries \"Christians\" were once called \"Nazarenes\". The Hebrew equivalent of \"Nazarenes\", \"Notzrim\", occurs in the Babylonian Talmud, and is still the modern Israeli Hebrew term for Christian.\n\nA wide range of beliefs and practices is found across the world among those who call themselves Christian. Denominations and sects disagree on a common definition of \"Christianity\". For example, Timothy Beal notes the disparity of beliefs among those who identify as Christians in the United States as follows: Although all of them have their historical roots in Christian theology and tradition, and although most would identify themselves as Christian, many would not identify others within the larger category as Christian. Most Baptists and fundamentalists (Christian Fundamentalism), for example, would not acknowledge Mormonism or Christian Science as Christian. In fact, the nearly 77 percent of Americans who self-identify as Christian are a diverse pluribus of Christianities that are far from any collective unity.\n\nLinda Woodhead attempts to provide a common belief thread for Christians by noting that \"Whatever else they might disagree about, Christians are at least united in believing that Jesus has a unique significance.\" Philosopher Michael Martin, in his book \"The Case Against Christianity\", evaluated three historical Christian creeds (the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed and the Athanasian Creed) to establish a set of basic assumptions which include belief in theism, the historicity of Jesus, the Incarnation, salvation through faith in Jesus, and Jesus as an ethical role model.\n\nThe identification of Jesus as the Messiah is not accepted by Judaism. The term for a Christian in Hebrew is נוֹצְרִי (\"Notzri\"—\"Nazarene\"), a Talmudic term originally derived from the fact that Jesus came from the Galilean village of Nazareth, today in northern Israel. Adherents of Messianic Judaism are referred to in modern Hebrew as יְהוּדִים מְשִׁיחִיִּים (\"Yehudim Meshihi'im\"—\"Messianic Jews\").\n\nIn Arabic-speaking cultures, two words are commonly used for Christians: \"Naṣrānī\" (), plural \"Naṣārā\" () is generally understood to be derived from Nazareth through the Syriac (Aramaic); \"Masīḥī\" () means followers of the Messiah. Where there is a distinction, \"Nasrani\" refers to people from a Christian culture and \"Masihi\" is used by Christians themselves for those with a religious faith in Jesus. In some countries \"Nasrani\" tends to be used generically for non-Muslim Western foreigners, e.g. \"blond people.\"\n\nAnother Arabic word sometimes used for Christians, particularly in a political context, is \"Ṣalībī\" ( \"Crusader\") from \"ṣalīb\" ( \"cross\"), which refers to Crusaders and has negative connotations. However, \"Ṣalībī\" is a modern term; historically, Muslim writers described European Christian Crusaders as \"al-Faranj\" or \"Alfranj\" () and \"Firinjīyah\" () in Arabic. This word comes from the name of the Franks and can be seen in the Arab history text Al-Kamil fi al-Tarikh by Ali ibn al-Athir.\n\nThe most common Persian word is \"Masīhī\" (), from Arabic. Other words are \"Nasrānī\" (), from Syriac for \"Nazarene\", and \"Tarsā\" (), from Middle Persian word \"Tarsāg\", also meaning \"Christian\", derived from \"tars\", meaning \"fear, respect\".\n\nAn old Kurdish word for Christian frequently in usage was \"felle\" (فەڵە), coming from the root word meaning \"to be saved\" or \"attain salvation\".\n\nThe Syriac term \"Nasrani\" (Nazarene) has also been attached to the Saint Thomas Christians of Kerala, India. In the Indian subcontinent, Christians call themselves \"Isaai\" (, ), and are also known by this term to adherents of other religions. This is related to the name they call Jesus,\" 'Isa Masih\", and literally means 'the followers of 'Isa'.\n\nIn the past, the Malays used to call the Portuguese \"Serani\" from the Arabic \"Nasrani\", but the term now refers to the modern Kristang creoles of Malaysia. In Indonesian language, the term \"\"Nasrani\" is also used alongside with \"Kristen\"\".\n\nThe Chinese word is (pinyin: jīdū tú), literally \"Christ follower.\" The two characters now pronounced \"Jīdū\" in Mandarin Chinese, were originally pronounced \"Jīdū\" (基督) in Cantonese as representation of Latin \"Christus\". In Vietnam, the same two characters read \"Cơ đốc\", and a \"follower of Christianity\" is a \"tín đồ Cơ đốc giáo\".\n\nIn Japan, the term \"kirishitan\" (written in Edo period documents 吉利支丹, 切支丹, and in modern Japanese histories as キリシタン), from Portuguese \"cristão\", referred to Roman Catholics in the 16th and 17th centuries before the religion was banned by the Tokugawa shogunate. Today, Christians are referred to in Standard Japanese as キリスト教徒, \"Kirisuto-kyōto\" or the English-derived term クリスチャン \"kurisuchan\".\n\nKorean still uses 기독교도, \"Kidok-kyo-do\" for \"Christian\", though the Greek form \"Kurisudo\" 그리스도 has now replaced the old Sino-Korean \"Kidok\", which refers to Christ himself.\n\nIn Thailand, the most common terms are คนคริสต์ (\"khon khrit\") or ชาวคริสต์ (\"chao khrit\") which literally mean \"Christ person/people\" or \"Jesus person/people.\" The Thai word คริสต์ (\"khrit\") is derived from \"Christ.\"\n\nThe region of modern Eastern Europe and Central Eurasia (Russia, Ukraine and other countries of the former Soviet bloc) has a long history of Christianity and Christian communities on its lands. In ancient times, in the first centuries after the birth of Christ, when this region was called Scythia, the geographical area of Scythians - Christians already lived there. Later the region saw the first states to adopt Christianity officially - initially Armenia (301 AD) and Georgia (337 AD), later Bulgaria ( 864) and the Great Russian Principality (Kyivan Rus, , 988 AD).\n\nIn some areas, people of that time came to denote themselves as Christians () and as Russians (). Both terms had strong Christian connotations. In time the Russian term \"крестьяне\" (\"khrest'yanye\") acquired the meaning \"peasants of Christian faith\" and later \"peasants\" (the main part of the population of the region), while the term \"христиане\" (\"khristianye\") retained its religious meaning and the term \"русские\" (\"russkiye\") began to mean representatives of the heterogeneous Russian nation formed on the basis of common Christian faith and language, which strongly influenced the history and development of the region. In the region the term \"Pravoslav faith\" ( - Orthodox faith) or \"Russian faith\" () from earliest times became almost as known as the original \"Christian faith\" (христианская, крестьянская вера). Also in some contexts the term \"cossack\" ( - \"free man\" by the will of God) was used to denote \"free\" Christians of steppe origin and Russian language.\n\nNominally \"Christian\" societies made \"Christian\" a default label for citizenship or for \"people like us\".\nIn this context, religious or ethnic minorities can use \"Christians\" or \"you Christians\" loosely as a shorthand term for mainstream members of society who do not belong to their group - even in a thoroughly secular (though formerly Christian) society.\n\nAs of the early 21st century, Christianity has approximately 2.4 billion adherents. The faith represents about a third of the world's population and is the largest religion in the world. Christians have composed about 33 percent of the world's population for around 100 years. The largest Christian denomination is the Roman Catholic Church, with 1.17 billion adherents, representing half of all Christians.\n\nChristianity remains the dominant religion in the Western World, where 70% are Christians. According to a 2012 Pew Research Center survey, if current trends continue, Christianity will remain the world's largest religion by the year 2050. By 2050, the Christian population is expected to exceed 3 billion. While Muslims have an average of 3.1 children per woman—the highest rate of all religious groups, Christians are second, with 2.7 children per woman. High birth rates and conversion were cited as the reason for Christian population growth. A 2015 study found that approximately 10.2 million Muslims converted to Christianity. Christianity is growing in Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Muslim world, and Oceania.\n\nAccording to a study from 2015, Christians hold the largest amount of wealth (55% of the total world wealth), followed by Muslims (5.8%), Hindus (3.3%) and Jews (1.1%). According to the same study it was found that adherents under the classification Irreligion or other religions hold about 34.8% of the total global wealth. A study done by the nonpartisan wealth research firm New World Wealth found that 56.2% of the 13.1 million millionaires in the world were Christians.\n\nA Pew Center study about religion and education around the world in 2016, found that Christians ranked as the second most educated religious group around in the world after Jews with an average of 9.3 years of schooling, and the highest numbers of years of schooling among Christians were found in Germany (13.6), New Zealand (13.5) and Estonia (13.1). Christians were also found to have the second highest number of graduate and post-graduate degrees per capita while in absolute numbers ranked in the first place (220 million). Between the various Christian communities, Singapore outranks other nations in terms of Christians who obtain a university degree in institutions of higher education (67%), followed by the Christians of Israel (63%), and the Christians of Georgia (57%).\n\nAccording to the study, Christians in North America, Europe, Middle East, North Africa and Asia Pacific regions are highly educated since many of the world universities were built by the historic Christian Churches, in addition to the historical evidence that \"Christian monks built libraries and, in the days before printing presses, preserved important earlier writings produced in Latin, Greek and Arabic\". According to the same study, Christians have a significant amount of gender equality in educational attainment, and the study suggests that one of the reasons is the encouragement of the Protestant Reformers in promoting the education of women, which led to the eradication of illiteracy among females in Protestant communities.\n\nChristians have made noted contributions to a range of fields, including philanthropy, philosophy, ethics, literature, business and economics, fine arts and architecture, music, theatre and medicine, as well as science and technology, both historically and in modern times.\n\nEastern Christians (particularly Nestorian Christians) contributed to the Arab Islamic Civilization during the Ummayad and the Abbasid periods by translating works of Greek philosophers to Syriac and afterwards to Arabic. They also excelled in philosophy, science, theology and medicine.\n\nEtymology\n"}
{"id": "15818424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15818424", "title": "Dragon Gate Taoism", "text": "Dragon Gate Taoism\n\nThe Dragon Gate sect (lóngménpài ) of the Complete Reality School (全真派) of Taoism incorporates elements of Buddhism and Confucianism into a comprehensive form of Taoism.\n\nComplete Reality Taoism is generally divided into two main traditions, Southern and Northern. The Dragon Gate sect is an offshoot of the Northern school. Its spiritual descent is traced to the thirteenth-century master Qiu Chang-chun, who was one of the original seven disciples of Wang Chongyang. Chang-chun means \"Eternal Spring\". Genghis Khan appointed Chang-chun overseer of all religions in China, and the Dragon Gate sect thus played a critical role in the conservation of the Han Chinese culture.\n\nThe 11th generation Dragon Gate priests Min Yi-De (闵一得) combined three religions (Taoism, Confucianism and Buddhism) together to develop the \"Dragon convenience methods\". The principle is \"learn from Buddhism, to comply with the precepts, diligently practice inner alchemy arts\", so that the Dragon Gate branch became thriving. Dragon Gate is currently the largest existing Taoism branch in the world.\n\nAfter the decline of the Qing Dynasty and the establishment of People's Republic of China, which included the destruction of religion during the Cultural Revolution, people's understanding of Taoism became more limited to the type of Taoism practiced in the temples located in major urban centers.\n\n"}
{"id": "6263325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6263325", "title": "East Olympos", "text": "East Olympos\n\nEast Olympos, or Anatolikos Olympos (, \"Anatolikós Ólympos\"), is a former municipality in Pieria regional unit, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Dio-Olympos, of which it is a municipal unit. The municipal unit has an area of 152.939 km. Population 8,343 (2011). The seat of the municipality was in Leptokarya.\n\nThe municipal unit consists of the following communities (constituent villages in brackets):\n"}
{"id": "8182073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8182073", "title": "Eastern Lightning", "text": "Eastern Lightning\n\nEastern Lightning (), which prefers to use the name The Church of Almighty God, is a new religious movement established in China in 1991, to which Chinese governmental sources attribute from three to four million members, although scholars regard these figures as somewhat inflated. The name \"Eastern Lightning\" is drawn from the New Testament, Gospel of Matthew 24:27: \"For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.\" Its core teaching is that Jesus Christ returned to earth in our days as the incarnate Almighty God (全能神), this time not as a man but as a Chinese woman. The movement is regarded by the Chinese authorities, as a \"xie jiao\" (a term often translated as “evil cult” but in fact used since the Ming dynasty to indicate “heterodox teachings”) and accused of various crimes, including the infamous Zhaoyuan McDonald's Cult Murder Christian opponents and international media have in turn described it as a cult and even as a \"terrorist organization.\" The Church denies all accusations, and there are scholars who have concluded that some accusations they have investigated so far are indeed false or exaggerated.\n\nAlthough the movement never mentions her name nor any biographic details (while admitting she is female), and cautions that any information supplied by outside sources may be wrong, several scholars believe it identifies the incarnate Almighty God with a Chinese woman, Yang Xiangbin (b. 1973), who was born in northwestern China. In 1989, during a revival of the Chinese independent churches, the person identified by the movement as Almighty God formally entered the House church (China) movement, i.e. the Protestant churches independent from the government, and began to utter words that followers compared for authority and power to those expressed by Jesus Christ. At that time, she was attending meetings of the groups founded by Witness Lee, known as the Local churches in the West and as The Shouters in China, as did most of her early devotees. Many believers in the Chinese House Church movement believed that those words were from the Holy Spirit and started to read them in their gatherings in 1991, so that the origins of the church may be dated back to this year, although only in 1993 the person who was the source of these messages was recognized as Christ, the incarnate God, and the only one true God, and The Church of Almighty God emerged with this name.\n\nAmong those who accepted the person and the message of Almighty God was Zhao Weishan (Chinese: 赵维山; born December 12, 1951), the leader of an independent branch of the Shouters. While some scholars regard Zhao as the founder of the movement, others believe that this is due to a bias in the Chinese sources, which would not easily accept that a large religious movement was founded by a woman, and in fact the title of \"founder\" of The Church of Almighty God should rather be attributed to the (female) person the movement venerates as Almighty God. According to Australian scholar Emily Dunn, in 1991, the organization had more than a thousand members. After being investigated and prosecuted by local police station, Zhao left Heilongjiang and continued the organization in Qingfeng County, Henan, where it continued to expand. He was later recognized as the leader and the Priest of The Church of Almighty God. The church insists that it is personally led and shepherded by the person it recognizes as Almighty God, and that Zhao, \"the Man used by the Holy Spirit,\" is the administrative leader of the movement.\n\nThe Chinese government was immediately suspicious of The Church of Almighty God because of its anti-Communist teachings, and the harsh repression of the mid-1990s targeted together the Shouters and The Church of Almighty God, whose theological differences were not necessarily clear to the Chinese authorities. In 2000, Zhao and Yang went to the United States, where they entered on September 6, and in 2001 they were granted political asylum. Since then, they live in and direct the movement from New York. In early 2009, He Zhexun, who used to be in charge of the work of the Church in Mainland China, was arrested by the Chinese authorities. On July 17, 2009, Ma Suoping (female, 1969–2009), who took over He Zhexun’s role, was also arrested by the Chinese police and died while in custody.\n\nDespite governmental repression, and the fact that some leaders of Christian mainline churches accused The Church of Almighty God of heresy, the Church grew in China and, according to Chinese official sources, had reached three or even four million members in 2014, although scholars regard these figures as somewhat exaggerated. Since the Zhaoyuan McDonald's Cult Murder of 2014, the repression in China intensified, and several thousand members escaped abroad, where they founded churches in South Korea, United States, Italy, France, Spain, Canada, and other countries, in addition to those established in Hong Kong and Taiwan, with non-Chinese members also joining the movement. An unattended consequence of the diaspora was the flourishing, in the countries where the Church of Almighty God can freely operate, of a considerable artistic production of paintings and movies, with some films winning awards in Christian movie festivals.\n\nThe “Eastern Lightning,” according to the Church, is Jesus Christ returning as Almighty God, from a country in the east, China, to inaugurate the third age of humanity, the Age of Kingdom, which follows the Age of Law, i.e. the time of the Old Testament, and the Age of Grace, which went from the birth of Jesus to the advent of Almighty God in the 20th century.\nWith Jesus’ sacrifice on the cross, the sins of humans were forgiven, but their sinful nature was not eradicated. In the Age of Kingdom, Almighty God is at work to eradicate that sinful nature. In Almighty God’s own words, \"My entire management plan, a plan that spans six thousand years, consists of three stages, or three ages: the Age of Law in the beginning; the Age of Grace (which is also the Age of Redemption); and the Age of Kingdom in the last days. My work in these three ages differs in content according to the nature of each age, but at each stage it accords with man’s needs\"; and: \"Though Jesus did much work among man, He only completed the redemption of all mankind and became man’s sin offering, and did not rid man of all his corrupt disposition. ... And so, after man was forgiven his sins, God has returned to flesh to lead man into the new age.\"\n\nIn The Church of Almighty God, the Bible is accepted as the holy scripture for the Age of Law and the Age of Grace, although it is argued that \"recorded by human beings, it contains messages from God and some truthful insights, which are helpful to know God's work in the Age of Law and the Age of Grace, but it also carries many human errors.\" In our time, the church believes that we find a safer guide in the utterances of Almighty God, which are recorded in the massive book \"The Word Appears in the Flesh\", consisting of more than one million words, addressing a number of questions of sacred history, theology, ethics, and spirituality, and regarded as normative by the movement.\n\nThe Church of Almighty God teaches a form of millennialism. The Age of Kingdom is not to be confused with the Age of Millennial Kingdom, a future time following the apocalyptic disasters prophesied in the Bible, when the message of Almighty God will be accepted in all countries, human’s sinful nature will be transformed, and humans purified by God’s work will live eternally on earth. According to the church, after the incarnated Almighty God (who is not believed to live forever on Earth) will have completed God's work on Earth for the last days, the catastrophes prophesied in the Book of Revelation of the Bible will come, in the form of famines, earthquakes and wars. However, \"the Earth will not be annihilated, and the ones who are purified by \nGod will be saved in the cataclysms of the last days, and will live on Earth forever.\" According to American scholar Holly Folk, \"the division of history into several eras reflects the influence of the Plymouth Brethren and other evangelical missionaries in China. Dispensationalism, a method of Biblical interpretation that supports a cosmic view of history that includes the end times, was developed in the nineteenth century by John Nelson Darby,\" although there are also differences between Darby and The Church of Almighty God.\n\nThe Church of Almighty God believes that Almighty God is the returned Jesus in our days and was born in China, a country that, according to the church, represents at the same time the place where the evil Great Red Dragon of the Book of Revelation manifested itself in the semblance of the Chinese Communist Party and where the Second Coming of Jesus Christ must also manifest himself. As Emily Dunn noticed, the theology identifying the Great Red Dragon with a political power that persecutes Christian has not been invented by The Church of Almighty God but has a long tradition among Chinese Christians, including the Shouters.\n\nThe Church of Almighty God believes that the sacraments, including baptism, were practices of the Age of Grace and have no place in the Age of Kingdom. Accordingly, there is no baptism in The Church of Almighty God, and one becomes a member of the church by confessing that the incarnated Almighty God is the Second Coming of Jesus Christ and the appearance of the only one true God in the last days, being willing to pray in the name of Almighty God, and being able to understand and accept the beliefs of The Church of Almighty God. \nThe absence of sacraments does not mean that gathering together, praying and worshiping God is not important for the members of the Church of Almighty God. They “fellowship” regularly by meeting and discussing their sacred scriptures, hearing sermons, singing hymns, and sharing testimonies; Italian scholar Massimo Introvigne observes that, in this sense, \"the intensity of the religious life contrasts with a minimalist style of worship.\" \n\nAccusations of serious crimes against The Church of Almighty God, which frequently appears in the media, come from two sources: the Chinese Communist Party and other Christian churches. The Chinese government and media periodically accuse The Church of Almighty God of crimes. The most frequent accusations concern four main incidents: the Zhaoyuan McDonald's Cult Murder of 2014, which was at the center of a BBC World Service’s news service in the same year, the pulling out of a young boy’s eyes in 2013 in Shanxi, the kidnapping of Christian leaders in 2002, and riots connected to announcements that the end of the world will occur in 2012.\nChinese official sources also occasionally mention other accusations: that riots were instigated by the church in 1998 in Hetang county, Zhuzhou City, Hunan, where they reportedly broke the arms and legs, and cut the ears off their victims; that in 2010 members killed an elementary school student, leaving a lightning-like mark on one of the victim's feet, because one of his relatives was leaving the church; and that on an unknown date, a follower of Eastern Lightning killed her father before calmly turning herself in to the Public Security Bureau. \n\nIn 2017, Western scholars, including Massimo Introvigne and Holly Folk, who had studied the church, were invited in Henan by the official China Anti-Cult Association for a conference on dangerous cults and The Church of Almighty God. A second conference was organized by the same China Anti-Cult Association later in 2017 in Hong Kong, and scholars received from Chinese law enforcement officials information and documents on the crimes the latter regarded The Church of Almighty God as guilty of. They observed that the additional accusations appear to be less frequently mentioned and less supported by documents with respect to the accusations concerning the four main incidents.\n\nWhile the Church is often accused to be \"against the family,\" a study published by the same Introvigne in 2018 in Baylor University's \"Interdisciplinary Journal of Research on Religion\" argued that in fact its theology of the family is quite traditional and conservative, and presented survey evidence showing that most of the Chinese members who escaped to South Korea, the United States and the Philippines were converted to The Church of Almighty God by members of their own family.\n\nOn May 28, 2014, six \"missionaries\" who claimed to represent the \"Almighty God\" sparked a national outcry when they attacked and killed a woman at a McDonald's restaurant in Zhaoyuan, a city in Shandong Province of China. During an interview with a CCTV journalist, Zhang Lidong (), the lead attacker in what became known as the Zhaoyuan McDonald's Cult Murder, claimed that the subject rejected his daughter's request for her phone number and was called an \"evil spirit\" (), which prompted the six \"missionaries\" to attack. Zhang described in detail how they kept stamping the victim's head to the ground for about three minutes, and that \"he felt great\", but he deliberately avoided questions on the organization to which he belonged and his rank within the religious group. Five of the \"missionaries\" (the sixth was a minor) were tried and convicted and on October 10. Two were sentenced to death and executed in 2015, one to life imprisonment, and the other two to 7 and 10 years in prison. \n\nThe McDonald's murder was later studied by scholars of new religious movements such as Emily Dunn, David Bromley and Massimo Introvigne. They came to different conclusions with respect to earlier reports by most Chinese and Western media, and argued that the assassins were part of a small, independent cult not connected with Eastern Lighting, who used the words \"Almighty God\" to designate as a \"dual deity\" its two female leaders, Zhang Fan (Zhang Lidong's daughter, who was executed in 2015) and Lü Yingchun.. At trial, the defendants stated explicitly that, although they both used the name “Almighty God,” their group and The Church of Almighty God led by Zhao Weishan were two different organizations. One of the leaders, Lü Yingchun, declared, “the state labeled Zhao Weishan’s fake ‘Church of Almighty God’ as a \"evil cult\" , and we label them as ‘evil spirits.’ Only Zhang Fan and I … could represent the real ‘Church of Almighty God.’ Zhang Fan and I are the unique spokeswomen for the real ‘Almighty God.’ The government has been cracking down on the Almighty God that Zhao Weishan believes in, not the ‘Almighty God’ we mention. They are fake ‘Almighty God,’ while we are the real ‘Almighty God.’”\n\nOn August 24, 2013, a woman pulled out the eyes of a young boy called Guo Xiaobin in Shanxi. The boy later became internationally famous for the successful ocular prosthesis surgery performed in Shenzen. After the Zhaoyuan McDonald's Cult Murder, some Chinese media attributed the crime to members of The Church of Almighty God. A study by the American scholar Holly Folk, written after her participation in the two 2017 conferences organized by the China Anti-Cult Association, noticed that the Chinese police had closed the case in September 2013 by concluding that the crime was perpetrated by Guo Xiaobin’s aunt, and had nothing to do with The Church of Almighty God. Only after the McDonald’s murder in 2014 did some Chinese anti-cultists start to mention The Church of the Almighty God in connection with the incident. Folk also noted that accusations of gouging out eyes of Chinese victims were a common theme in Chinese anti-Christian propaganda since at least the 19th century.\n\nSome leaders of other Christian churches have accused The Church of Almighty God both of “heresy” and of “sheep-stealing” through devious strategies. Accusations include the claim that, in 2002, The Church of Almighty God kidnapped thirty-four leaders of the China Gospel Fellowship (CGF) in order to convert them. A number of Christians in the West found the accusations believable. In a study published in 2018, Introvigne found inconsistencies in the story as told by the China Gospel Fellowship, found it strange that nobody was arrested or committed to trial for the crime, and concluded that it was not impossible that, by inventing the story of the kidnapping, the China Gospel Fellowship simply tried to find a justification for the fact that many of its members, including national leaders, had converted to The Church of Almighty God, although other interpretations of the accounts also remain possible.\n\nThe doomsday apocalypse prediction concerning the year 2012 had wide popular traction in China where the film \"2012\" was popular and a few entrepreneurs made a profit building and selling \"arks\" to survive the putative apocalypse.\nWithin the global framework of the 2012 phenomenon, based on prophecies attributed to the Maya civilization, The Church of Almighty God was accused of predicting the end of the world for 2012, causing riots and even crimes around China. Immediately prior to the “Maya” doomsday date of December 21,2012, the Chinese government arrested 400 members of Eastern Lightning in central China, and as many as 1000 from other provinces of China. Chinese authorities also claimed that a certain Ming Yongjun, who said he was motivated by the doomsday prophecies of the church, stabbed an elderly woman and 23 students at a school in Henan province.\n\nAustralian scholar Emily Dunn, in what was the first scholarly book devoted to The Church of Almighty God in 2015, noted that, like many Chinese, some “members of Eastern Lighting embraced the Mayan prophecy” but they “appear to have done so without sanction from the group’s self-proclaimed authorities,” who in fact declared “Mayan” and other theories about the end of the world as theologically and factually “mistaken.”\n\nIntrovigne noted that the position of the members of The Church of Almighty God who accepted and spread the prophecies about the end of the world in 2012, some of whom were expelled from the church, “was not consistent with the theology of the Church. Almighty God does not announce the end of the world, but its transformation. And this will not occur before the work of Almighty God on Earth is completed,” i.e. before the person recognized as Almighty God will pass away, while she was alive and well in 2012.\n\nParticularly after the crackdown following the 2014 McDonald’s murder, thousands of members of The Church of Almighty God escaped to South Korea, the U.S., Canada, Italy, France, Australia, and other countries, seeking refugee status. While authorities in some countries claim that there is not enough evidence of the fact that asylum seekers have been persecuted, some international experts counter that evidence that The Church of Almighty God is persecuted as a movement is enough to support the conclusion that members would face serious risks should they return to China, and decisions unfavorable to applicants are not justified.\n\nThe Church of Almighty God claims to be the victim of fake news campaigns instigated by the Chinese Communist Party. It insists that some flyers and banners depicted in Chinese and Western Web sites as evidence of its 2012 prophecies were in fact either fabricated or derived from alterations with Photoshop and other techniques of existing materials of the Church of Almighty God. Some scholars have indeed studied certain Chinese campaigns against the Church as a classic example of fake news. The Church has also denounced the existence in the United Kingdom of a false Web site “Church of Almighty God UK.” Attempts by The Church of Almighty God to have it removed have been so far unsuccessful, despite scholars stating that the fact that the Web site does not represent the positions and theology of The Church of Almighty God should be obvious to anybody familiar with them. A “Declaration Concerning Websites Imitating The Church of Almighty God” was issued by the Church denouncing the incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31666682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31666682", "title": "Eighth of May Movement", "text": "Eighth of May Movement\n\nThe Eight May movement (Dutch Acht-Mei-beweging) was a Dutch umbrella organization within the Dutch Roman Catholic Church with the aim to reform it. It was founded in 1985, because of dissatisfaction with the ruling conservative current in the Dutch Catholic church. The immediate reason was the visit of John Paul II to the Netherlands in 1985. \n\nThis visit led to controversies. Could Catharina Halkes, among others, speak?. What would one be allowed to say? The Movement disbanded in 2003, because its former adherents had largely disengaged from the church and those who were left were much older.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59107090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59107090", "title": "Ekatmata Yatras", "text": "Ekatmata Yatras\n\nThe Ekatmata Yatras were a series of pilgrimages and political strategies used to promote Hindu Nationalism. The strategy involved the mobilization of large pilgrimages (Yatras) to gather support for pro-Hindu political positions. The concept of the Ekatmata Yatra was formulated by Vishva Hindu Parishad in the early 1980s. \nDuring the 1960s, the rise of Hindu nationalism in Indian politics resulted in several Hindu-supportive political parties and organizations growing in size and influence. One of these political parties was Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), a right-wing organization which mobilized support for Hindu politicians and policies. In 1983, VHP decided to organize a widespread series of political pilgrimages across India; these Yatras were intended to galvanize public support for causes that VHP supported. In particular, the pilgrimages were organized in such a way as to be Pan-Hindu, allowing members of all castes to participate; this was in keeping with one of VHP's long-held opinions that the caste system should be suppressed. The march was also focused around that idea that, by reigniting interest in Hindu religious rights, Hindus would be less susceptible to conversion attempts by Christians and Muslims. \n\nThe first pilgrimage (later referred to as the First Ekatmata Yatra, translatable to \"Pilgrimage of One Soulness\") began in November 1983, and involved thousands of Hindus undertaking a pilgrimage to various holy sites. The pilgrims formed three processions; one from Kathmandu to Rameshwaram, a second from Gangasagar to Somnath temple, and a third from Haridwar to Kanyakumari. These three main pilgrim parties were supplemented by dozens of smaller groups, and carried relics and idols with them. Many pilgrims carried water from the scared Ganges river during the journey, and the columns of travelers often stopped at Hindu temples and holy sites to gather more sacred water. All of the pilgrimage parties eventually congregated in Nagpur. The event involved Hindus from Burma, Nepal, India, Bhutan, and Bangladesh. \n\nThe first of the Ekatmata Yatras was well-received by many practitioners of Hinduism, and as such the prestige of the VHP was increased. Soon after the end of the marches, the organization was able to use the influence its high-profile pilgrimage had garnered to involve the organization in the ongoing Ayodhya dispute. VHP organized the Second Ekatmata Yatra in 1995, and the organization led two further pilgrimages (known as the 1996 Amarnath Yatra and the Baba Buddha Amarnath Yatra) in 1996 and 2005. \n"}
{"id": "2139931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139931", "title": "Elunetru", "text": "Elunetru\n\nElunetru was the object placed in the sanctum sanctorum of the worship centres of Ayyavazhi. The elunetru is a compiled structure of flame shaped copper, a saffron cloth and separate garlands made of rudraksha and Flowers. The saffron cloth in wrapped on the, perpendicularly placed flame-shaped copper, which appears like a seat, on which the separate garlands made of rudraksha and flowers are placed around. In Ayyavazhi this is which placed instead of the Idol. This was placed in the belief that we are too Knowledgeless to identify the form of God. But it is comfortable to all devotees when symbolized. And so the Elunetru, the seat was provided for the Formless God.\n\n"}
{"id": "53812109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53812109", "title": "Evan Davies (Calvinistic Methodist minister)", "text": "Evan Davies (Calvinistic Methodist minister)\n\nEvan Davies (1842-1919) was a Welsh Calvinistic Methodist minister, and writer. He was born in Aberangell, Merionethshire. As a boy (of the age of 10) he entered employment as a farm worker, later (at 17) becoming a quarryman. He was however keen to further his education (he had always had a keen interest in history and literature), and after beginning preaching in 1865, in 1868 he moved to study at Bala College, following which, in 1873, he was ordained minister of Llangynog. He later (in 1875) moved for a period to a post at Llanarmon Dyffryn Ceiriog, followed by a move (in 1879) to Trefriw, where he remained till his death.\n\nHis written works include a number of short religious books, his biography of Joseph Thomas of Carno, a short ‘Life’ of Dafydd Dafis of Cywarch (1794 - 1861) (a 'highly original preacher'), and a selection of verse.\n\nHe died, aged 77, in 1919.\n"}
{"id": "26677534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26677534", "title": "Hamevasser", "text": "Hamevasser\n\nHamevasser ('The Herald') was a Zionist Hebrew-language weekly newspaper published from Constantinople 1909-1911. As the number of Hebrew literates was limited at the time, the circle of readership of the newspaper was rather limited. However, the publication of the newspaper contributed to enhancing the status of Hebrew in the Jewish community. \"Hamevasser\" was distributed in various parts of the Ottoman empire and beyond, reaching Greece, Bulgaria, Tunisia and Morocco. \"Hamevasser\" was produced by a small circle of Zionist journalists, and was edited by S. Hochberg.\n\n\"Hamevasser\" had three sister newspapers, the French weekly \"L'Aurore\", the Judeo-Spanish weekly \"El Judeo\" and the French daily \"Courier d'Orient\"/\"Jeune Turc\" (which was not an explicitly Jewish publication, but directed to a broader readership). Vladimir Jabotinsky functioned as the key organizer of this Zionist media network. A press committee for the four newspapers consisted of Jabotinsky, Hochberg and Jacobson. Jabotinsky contributed with several articles to \"Hamevasser\".\n\nGenerally, the news-coverage in \"Hamevasser\" were concentrated around Jewish and Turkish affairs, the affairs of the Ottoman empire and Jewish-Turkish-Ottoman relations.\n\nPolitically, \"Hamevasser\" was generally supportive of the constitutionalist rule established after the Young Turks revolution of 1908 and its liberal-oriented reforms. \"Hamevasser\" welcomed the introduction of conscription of non-Muslims into the Ottoman army, and argued that Jewish youth should enroll as a means to improve Jewish-Turkish relations. Regarding Palestine, it argued that Zionist settlement to Palestine was economically favourable for the development of the Ottoman empire. \"Hamevasser\" rebutted claims circulated by other contemporary press outlets (such as \"Alemdar\"), which stated that Zionism was anti-Turkish.\n\nRegarding the language question \"Hamevasser\" argued in favour of having Hebrew as the first language in Jewish schools, stating that Hebrew was the Jewish national language. It consciously favoured Hebrew over Judeo-Spanish. Turkish or Arabic (depending on which part in the empire the school would be located) were proposed as secondary languages. French was proposed as a third language, being a language of importance for international communication.\n"}
{"id": "9498024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9498024", "title": "Hinduism in Norway", "text": "Hinduism in Norway\n\nIn Norway 0.17% of the total population (or about 8,900 people as of 2016) are Hindus, up from 5900 five years earlier and 3700 10 years earlier. Most of these Hindus are from South Asian descent with the majority(around 75%) of those being Tamil Hindus from Sri Lanka. \n\nDiaspora Hindus in Norway include Tamil Families, Punjabi families, U.P families, Gujaratis and Bengalis. \n\nAmong the Sri Lankan Tamils, Hindus constituted a large number, around 5000-7000 persons.\n\nThere are currently 5 Hindu Temples in Norway.\n\n\nMost major Hindu festivals such as Diwali are celebrated annually in Norway. \n\nHindus in Norway, mainly Tamil Hindus from Sri Lanka, celebrate the 12-day annual temple festival, the Mahotsav of which processions is the main feature. It is the main annual ritual gathering of the Tamil Hindus in Norway.\n\nIndian classical vocalist Sniti Mishra performed at a live concert in Oslo during the Holi festival in 2015. The festival is organized annually by the Norway branch of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad.\n\nVishwa Hindu Parishad is registered in Norway.\n\nISKCON has a Centre in Norway\nAddress- Oslo, Norway, Jonsrudvej 1G, 0274, Oslode presence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11360317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11360317", "title": "Horace Kadoorie", "text": "Horace Kadoorie\n\nSir Horace Kadoorie, CBE (28 September 1902 – 22 April 1995) was an industrialist, hotelier, and philanthropist.\n\nIn 1913–14, he spent a year at Clifton College and was a member of Polacks House; a boarding house solely for Jewish boys at Clifton.\n\nHis father was Sir Elly Kadoorie, and his uncle, Sir Ellis Kadoorie. His family were originally Iraqi Jews from Baghdad who later migrated to Bombay (Mumbai), India in the mid-18th century. Kadoorie and his brother Sir Lawrence Kadoorie worked for Victor Sassoon during the 1920s and 1930s, and managed his Shanghai hotel. They also worked for there for their father, the industrialist Sir Elly Kadoorie. He and his brother also formed an agricultural aid organisation that in the 1960s helped hundreds of thousands of peasants in rural areas near Hong Kong to become independent farmers. Kadoorie and his brother, Lawrence, both received the Magsaysay Award for public service in 1962. They were also conferred Chev.Leg.Hon. by the French government. The Nepal Government awarded him one of its highest honours, the Gorkha Dakshin Bahu (First Class) Award, for his work in helping Gurkha soldiers readjust to rural life after leaving the British military. Sir Horace Kadoorie died in Hong Kong on 22 April 1995. He was buried in the Jewish Cemetery in Happy Valley, Hong Kong.\n\nAmong Sir Horace's philanthropies was a school that became a haven for Jewish refugee children in Shanghai.\n\n"}
{"id": "44014427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44014427", "title": "Impastor", "text": "Impastor\n\nImpastor is an American sitcom created by Christopher Vane. The series stars Michael Rosenbaum, who also serves as executive producer alongside Vane, Eric Tannenbaum and Kim Tannenbaum. \"Impastor\" premiered on July 15, 2015, on TV Land. The series was renewed for a second season which began airing on September 28, 2016.\n\nOn December 13, 2016, TV Land canceled the series after two seasons.\n\n\"Impastor\" follows Buddy Dobbs (Michael Rosenbaum), a fugitive and hard-core gambling addict who, in order to hide from a pair of loan sharks, ends up stealing the identity of a recently deceased gay Lutheran pastor who was relocating to Ladner, a small-town community outside of Portland, Oregon. He hopes to keep up the ruse long enough to make the money necessary to flee Ladner, but he is inspired to stay after helping a mother and rebellious son as well as seeing how the townspeople get along peacefully. Over the series, Buddy tries to keep his true life from converging with his false life as various people from his past, plus two detectives who think he killed the pastor, come to town.\n\n\n\nOn April 15, 2014, TV Land placed a cast-contingent pilot order on \"Impastor\", with Christopher Vane attached to pen the script and executive produce alongside Eric Tannenbaum and Kim Tannenbaum via The Tannenbaum Company and CBS Television Studios.\n\nCasting announcements began in June 2014, with Michael Rosenbaum first to be cast, in the role of Buddy Dobbs, the gambling, pot-smoking protagonist. Sara Rue was the next actor cast in the series regular role of Dora, a gossip and the assistant to the pastor. Shortly afterwards, Mircea Monroe and Aimee Garcia were cast in the series, with Monroe cast in the role of Alexa Cummings, the gorgeous treasurer who finds herself attracted to Buddy. Garcia was tapped to play the role of LeeAnne, Buddy's bartender ex-girlfriend, that he left behind. David Rasche then joined the series as Alden Schmidt, the church president who is suspicious of Buddy. Mike Kosinski was the last actor cast in the series regular role of Russell Kerry, the young secretary who is excited about the arrival of a gay pastor.\n\nOn October 1, 2014, TV Land placed a 10-episode series order on \"Impastor\", which premiered on July 15, 2015. On August 31, 2015, TV Land confirmed that \"Impastor\" was renewed for a second season, premiering September 28, 2016.\n\nOn December 13, 2016, one week after the second season ended with multiple storylines jumping the shark (the fake pastor convinces the FBI and two other law agencies that he is an undercover FBI agent, the money-hungry prostitute convinces the church leader to enter a quickie marriage \"for love\", the church treasurer starts having sex with her pastor and murders her husband - her second murder of the season, the ever acquiescent church assistant suddenly finds the will power to search for a body in the woods to prove everyone wrong), TV Land canceled the series.\n\n\"Impastor\" has received a range of generally unfavorable to mixed reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes the series has a rating of 33%, based on 18 reviews, with an average rating of 5.5/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Impastor\" wastes a talented cast on a story that feels like one long, badly written joke straining for controversy without delivering a decent punchline.\" On Metacritic, the series has a score of 49 out of 100, based on 18 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48533502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48533502", "title": "Irreligion in Turkey", "text": "Irreligion in Turkey\n\nIrreligion in Turkey is a relatively small minority, although precise estimates of the share of deists, atheists, and agnostics in the population vary. Islam is the predominant faith. One study in Turkey reported that 95% believe in God while 75% are religious. Another study, done by a French company which interviewed 17,180 adults across 22 countries, stated that atheists accounted for 7% of the population while agnostics accounted for 3%. It is difficult to quantify the number of atheists or agnostics in Turkey, as they are not officially counted in the census of the country. The data also suggests that 85% of all irreligious people are younger than 35. There is a great stigma attached to being an atheist in Turkey, so many Turkish atheists communicate with each other via the internet.\n\nAn early April 2018 report of the Turkish Ministry of Education, titled \"The Youth is Sliding to Deism\", observed that an increasing number of pupils in İmam Hatip schools was abandoning Islam in favour of deism. The report's publication generated large-scale controversy amongst conservative Muslim groups in Turkish society. Progressive Islamic theologian Mustafa Öztürk noted the deist trend a year earlier, arguing that the \"very archaic, dogmatic notion of religion\" held by the majority of those claiming to represent Islam was causing “the new generations [to get] indifferent, even distant, to the Islamic worldview.” Despite lacking reliable statistical data, numerous anecdotes appear to point in this direction. Although some commentators claim the secularisation is merely a result of Western influence or even a \"conspiracy\", but some commentators, even some pro-government ones, have come to conclude that \"the real reason for the loss of faith in Islam is not the West but Turkey itself.\n\nAssociation of Atheism (\"Ateizm Derneği\"), the first official atheist organisation in Middle East and Caucasus, was founded in 2014. In 2018 it was reported in some media outlets that the Ateizm Derneği would close down because of the pressure on its members and attacks by pro-government media, but the association itself issued a clarification that this was not the case and that it was still active. \n\n"}
{"id": "54845163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54845163", "title": "Islam Nusantara", "text": "Islam Nusantara\n\nIslam Nusantara or Indonesian (Islamic) model is a distinctive brand of Islam developed in Nusantara (Indonesian archipelago) at least since the 16th century, as a result of interaction, contextualization, indigenization, interpretation and vernacularization of universal Islamic values, according to socio-cultural reality of Indonesia. The term was first officially coined, proposed and promoted by Indonesian Islamic organization Nahdlatul Ulama in 2015, as an alternative for interpretation and representation of global Islam that currently dominated by Arabic or Middle Eastern perspectives.\n\nIslam Nusantara is defined as an interpretation of Islam that takes into account local Indonesian customs in forming its fiqh. On June 2015, Indonesian President Joko Widodo has openly expressed his support for Islam Nusantara, which in his view is the moderate form of Islam compatible to Indonesian cultural values.\n\nThe spread of Islam in Indonesia was a slow, gradual and relatively peaceful process. One theory suggests it arrived directly from Arabia before the 9th century, while another credits Sufi merchants and preachers for bringing Islam to Indonesian islands in the 12th or 13th century either from Gujarat in India or directly from the Middle East. By the 16th century, Islam began to supplant Hinduism and Buddhism as the major faith in the archipelago. The traditional Islam were mainly belongs to Sunni branch, taught by revered clerics called \"kyai\" in \"pesantren\" boarding school, especially in Java. Some aspects of traditional Islam in Indonesia has incorporated local culture and customs.\n\nEarly practice of Indonesian Islam were more or less influenced by Sufism and existing local Javanese spiritualism. Several traditions, such as revering and recognizing the authority of \"kyai\", honoring prominent Islamic figures such as Wali Songo, also took part in Islamic traditions such as \"ziarah kubur\" (tomb pilgrimage), \"tahlilan\" (\"selamatan\" ceremony to send the spirit of deceased one to the afterworld), and \"maulid nabi\" (commemorating the prophet Muhammad's birthday) including Javanese \"sekaten\" ceremony, were observed diligently by traditionalist Muslims in Indonesia. However, after the incoming of Modernist Salafism followed by Wahhabism from Arabia, the scriptural Islamic puritans denounced those traditions as \"shirk\" or \"bid'ah\", deprecated as a form of syncretism that corrupted the purity of Islam. This condition has led to the ongoing religious dispute, uneasy coexistence and somewhat a spiritual rivalry, between traditionalist Nahdlatul Ulama and modernist puritan Muhammadiyah.\n\nExamining the destruction of the war-torn Middle East; the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, Arab Spring, the Iraq War and the Syrian War, Indonesian moderate Islamic scholar noticed that some of this conflict were having religious aspect, especially the problem of Islamic radicalism and extremism. Indonesia also has suffered several terrorist attacks that were launched by jihadist Islamist group such as Jamaah Islamiyah's attacks on Bali. The ultra conservative doctrine of Salafi and Wahhabi adhered and promoted by the state of Saudi Arabia has been dominated the global discourse of Islam for decades. The wary sentiments were aggravated further by the advent of ISIS in 2013 that performed abhorred war crimes in the name of Islam. \n\nIn recent years, there are the rise of fundamentalism and religious intolerance in Indonesia. Internally, some of foreign and local Islamist organizations, such as Hizbut Tahrir Indonesia (HTI), Front Pembela Islam (FPI) also Islamist political party such as Partai Keadilan Sejahtera (PKS) has been actively involved in Indonesian politics in recent years, undermining the traditionalist Islamic institution especially Nahdlatul Ulama. Those Islamist elements in Indonesian politics were suspiciously regarded as weakening and harming the state ideology Pancasila.\n\nIndonesian moderate Muslim scholars, especially those traditionalist of Nahdlatul Ulama background, suggests Indonesian Muslims to distinct and differ between the Arabization and the traditional practice of Indonesian Islam. Compared to their Middle East Muslims counterpart, Indonesian Muslims has enjoyed a relative peace and harmony for decades. This was owed to Indonesians interpretation of Islam which is more moderate, inclusive and tolerant. Indonesia — as the world's largest Muslim population, could to contribute to the evolution of Islamic world, by offering its brand of Islam as an alternative to Saudi's Wahhabism. Thus subsequently, Islam Nusantara was identified, formulated, coined and promoted.\n\nThe main traits of Islam Nusantara are \"tawasut\" (moderate), \"rahmah\" (compassionate), anti-radical, inclusive and tolerant. Tawasut by \"moderate\" here connotes the Sunni Islamic theological position of wasatiyyah rather than political position. In its relations to local culture, Islam Nusantara uses a sympathetic cultural approach on teaching Islam; it did not destroy, disrupt or supplant the native culture, but on the contrary embraces, honor, nurture and preserves local culture. One of the main characteristic of Islam Nusantara is the consideration of local Indonesian culture in forming their fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence).\n\nIslam Nusantara was developed locally in indigenous educational institution of traditionalist \"pesantren\" boarding school. As the result, it based on traditional eastern decorum and mannerism; it emphasized in honoring the status and authority of \"kyai\" or \"ulama\" (religious teacher). The students requires the ongoing guidance of their religious teacher, in order not to go astray or developing false or radical ideas. Another distinctive aspect, is the emphasize on \"Rahmatan lil Alamin\" (blessings for the universe) as Islamic universal value, which promote peace, tolerance, mutual respects and a somewhat pluralist outlook in regard of Islamic interactions within ummah (within Muslim community) and in inter-religions relations.\n\nIslam Nusantara has been fiercely opposed and criticized by other branches of Islam, especially by adherents of wahhabism and salafism, or other similar doctrines that seeks to \"purify\" Islam from any \"un-Islamic\" local elements, which are often condemned as \"shirk\" or \"bid'ah\". Hizbut Tahrir Indonesia, PKS and FPI has openly opposed the Islam Nusantara. Islam Nusantara has been criticized as a somewhat syncretic form of Islam, which undermine the \"perfectness\" and singularity of Islam and corrupted the unity of ummah.\n\nMuhammadiyah, another influential Islamic organization in Indonesia — although not directly opposed to the concept, has stressed that the term Islam Nusantara should be addressed cautiously and proportionally, not to undermine and repress other branches of Islam, different understandings, or other doctrines of Islam. If Islam Nusantara is favoured, adopted, elevated and promoted by the state, they feared that other Islamic branches would suffer persecution and discrimination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9556940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9556940", "title": "Islam in Central Asia", "text": "Islam in Central Asia\n\nIslam in Central Asia has existed since the beginning of Islamic history. Islam is the most widely practiced religion in Central Asia. The Hanafi school of thought of Sunnism is the most popular, with Shiism of Imami and Ismaili denominations predominating in the Pamir plateau and the western Tian Shan mountains (almost exclusively Ismailis), while boasting to a large minority population in the Zarafshan river valley, from Samarkand to Bukhara (almost exclusively Imamis). Islam came to Central Asia in the early part of the 8th century as part of the Muslim conquest of the region. Many well-known Islamic scientists and philosophers came from Central Asia, and several major Muslim empires, including the Timurid Empire and the Mughal Empire, originated in Central Asia. In the 20th century, severe restrictions on religious practice were enacted by the Soviet Union in Soviet Central Asia and the People's Republic of China in Xinjiang. Concerns about Islamic radicalism and religious freedom in the region persist to this day.\n\nThe Battle of Talas in 751 between the Abbasid Caliphate and the Chinese Tang dynasty for control of Central Asia was the turning point initiating mass conversion into Islam in the region.\n\nMost of the Turkic khanates were converted to Islam in the 10th century. The arrival in Volga Bulgaria of Ahmad ibn Fadlan, ambassador of the caliph of Baghdad, on 12 May 922 is celebrated as a holiday in modern-day Tatarstan.\n\nIslamisation of the region has had profound impact on the native cultures in the region moulding them as a part of Islamic civilization. Islamisation in the region has also had the effect of blending Islam into native cultures, creating new forms of Islamic practices, known as folk Islam, the most prominent proponent of which was Khoja Akhmet Yassawi whose Sufi Yeseviye sect appealed greatly to local nomads. Some have proclaimed that Yassawi was a Khwajagan, however some scholars insist that his influence on the Shi'a Alevi and Bektashi cannot be underestimated.\n\nUntil the Mongol invasion of Central Asia in the 13th century, Samarkand, Bukhara and Urgench flourished as centers of Islamic learning, culture and art in the region. Mongol invasion halted the process for a half century. Other areas such as Turkistan became more strongly influenced by Shamanist elements which can still be found today.\n\nCentral Asian Islamic scientists and philosophers, including Al-Khwarzimi, Abu Rayhan Biruni, Farabi, and Avicenna made an important impact on the development of European science in the ensuing centuries.\n\nTurko-Mongolian tribes almost as whole were slow to accept certain Islamic tenets, such as giving up the consumption of alcohol or bathing before prayer. This is, however, believed to relate more directly to their nomadic lifestyle and local tradition than their faith in God and devotion to Islamic law and text.\n\nAfter conquests in the region by the Russian Empire in the 1860s and 1870s, western Central Asia came under Russian control and was incorporated into the empire as a Governor-Generalship led by Konstantin von Kaufman. Russian authorities debated what position they should take on Islam in the newly conquered territories. Some advocated a policy of religious repression, citing the ongoing Dungan Revolt in the neighboring Qing Empire as proof of the potential \"threat\" of Islam. Others, such as General Kaufman and his superior Dmitry Milyutin, preferred a policy of mild religious tolerance. Kaufman was nevertheless concerned about pan-Islam movements that would cause the Muslims of Russian Turkistan to view anyone other than the czar as their ruler.\n\nWhile the practice of Islam was broadly tolerated by the Russian Empire during its rule over Central Asia from the mid-1860s to 1917, the advent of Soviet rule following the Russian Revolutions of 1917 and the subsequent civil war brought with it Marxist opposition to religion. During the first few years of Bolshevik rule in the early 1920s, Soviet officials took a pragmatic approach by prioritizing other goals (attempting to modernize culture, building schools, improving the position of women) in order to solidify their hold on Central Asia. During this time, the Bolsheviks cooperated with the Jadids (Muslims working towards social and cultural reforms such as improved education) to accomplish their goals. In the process, the Bolsheviks created a new political elite favorable towards Marxist ideology by using propaganda and appointing officials favorable towards their policies during the division of Central Asia into separate republics along ethnic lines in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nIn 1926, the Soviet government decided it had consolidated control over Central Asia sufficiently to shift official policy from toleration of Islam to condemnation. The government closed private religious schools in favor of state-run public ones. Between 1927 and 1929, the state ran a campaign to shut down mosques in Central Asia. This operation was not well documented, but existing accounts indicate that it was often violent and poorly controlled, often carried out by self-appointed officials who arrested imams and destroyed buildings, denouncing Islam as an enemy of communism.\n\nDespite these assaults, Islam in Central Asia survived Soviet rule in the following decades. However, it was transformed in the process: instead of part of the public sphere, Islam became family-oriented, \"localized and rendered synonymous with custom and tradition.\" This led to a homogenization of practice; as religious authorities could not publish treatises or often even communicate with one another, the store of religious knowledge available vastly decreased. Additionally, Islam was largely removed from the public discourse, especially in terms of its influence on morals and ethical values. What religious practice that was permitted by the Soviet government was regulated by the Spiritual Administration of the Muslims of Central Asia and Kazakhstan.\n\nThe policy of glasnost put into practice by Mikhail Gorbachev in the mid-1980s meant that by 1988 the Soviet government relaxed its controls on Islam. As a result, there was a rapid religious revival, including new mosques, literature, and the return of private religious schooling. Many Central Asians were interested in the ethical and spiritual values that Islam could offer.\n\nThe revival accelerated further following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. For many, Islam constituted a national heritage that had been repressed during the Soviet era. Additionally, relaxed travel restrictions under Gorbachev enabled cultural exchange with other Muslim countries; Saudi Arabia, for example, sent copies of the Qur'an into the Soviet Union in the late 1980s. Islam as practiced in Central Asia became much more varied in this short time. Furthermore, Islam was attractive because it offered alternatives and solutions to the myriad political and economic problems facing the republics in the wake of the Soviet Union's collapse.\n\nHowever, the governments of the Central Asian republics were wary of Islam in the political sphere. Their fears of undue influence were soon justified by the outbreak of the Tajik Civil War in 1992, between the Tajik government and a coalition of opponents led by a radical Islamist group called the Islamic Renaissance Party. The civil war, which lasted until 1997, demonstrated to the other former Soviet republics the dangers posed by Islamic opposition groups. The takeover in 1996 of Afghanistan by the Taliban further emphasized that threat.\n\nThe Islamic Renaissance Party (IRP) was one of several similar Islamic opposition groups, including the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), which also fought against the Tajik government in the civil war. The IRP had its origins in underground Islamic groups in the Soviet Union. It was formed in 1990 in Astrakhan by a group consisting mostly of Tatar intellectuals, with separate branches for each Soviet republic. It was in fact registered as an official political party in Russia, but was banned by the Central Asian communist governments. Partly as a result of this oppression, political opposition erupted into the violence of the civil war in Tajikistan, in which over 50,000 people were killed out of a population of 6 million and another 250,000 fled the country to Afghanistan, Uzbekistan or elsewhere. Following the civil war, the Tajik government incorporated Islamic groups into the government in order to prevent future tensions. However, the other Central Asian republics did not follow this example, continuing instead to repress and persecute Islamic groups rather than allow them to participate in the political process.\n\nNot all Islamic movements were violent like the IRP; the most popular radical Islamic movement in Central Asia during the 1990s was the non-violent Hizb ut-Tahrir. Though it does not espouse the same violent methods as groups such as the IRP and IMU, its stated goal is to unite all Muslim countries through peaceful methods and replace them with a restored caliphate. For this reason, governments in Central Asia consider it a threat and have outlawed it as a subversive group in the Central Asian republics.\n\nFollowing the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, foreign powers took much greater interest in preventing the spread of radical Islamic terrorist organizations such as the IMU. The Central Asian republics offered their territory and airspace for use by the US and its allies in operations against the Taliban in Afghanistan, and the international community recognized the importance of ensuring stability in Central Asia in order to combat terrorism.\n\nPowers such as the United States, Russia and China were not only interested in fighting terrorism; they used the war on terror in order to advance their political and economic agendas in the region, particularly over the exploitation of Central Asian energy resources.\n\nIn Tajikistan, the government took advantage of this shift in international attitude in order to erode the position of Islam in politics, taking steps such as forbidding the hijab (which is not traditional in Tajikistan, due to Soviet rule) in public schools and reducing the legal rights of Islamic groups.\n\nSince 2001, ethnic and religious tensions in the Central Asian republics combined with endemic poverty and poor economic performance have made them increasingly volatile. However, governments as often use Islamic groups as a justification for repression and crackdowns as those groups are the cause of violence, if not more often. For example, in May 2005 the Uzbek government massacred over 700 of its own civilians demonstrating following a trial of 23 suspected Islamic radicals, saying that they were terrorists. Though the events of the massacre were complex, this simplistic account appears to be false; instead, it was a case of the Uzbek government repressing peaceful protesters, perhaps attempting to prevent the sort of popular revolt that had occurred two months earlier in Kyrgyzstan, toppling President Askar Akaev. Overall, Islamic militancy in Central Asia is not a major threat to regional stability compared to the myriad social and economic problems—such environmental devastation around the Aral Sea, endemic poverty, poor education—that plague the region. Central Asian expert Adeeb Khalid, writes that the situation in Central Asia demonstrates most of all that Islam is a complex phenomenon that rejects easy categorization into \"good\" and \"bad,\" \"moderate\" and \"extremist,\" and that the form Islam takes in Central Asia is not the same as the form it takes elsewhere. \"For observers,\" he writes, \"it is critical to have perspective, to discern clearly the political stakes at issue...and to separate the disinformation dished out by the regimes from the actual conduct of Muslims.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7012327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7012327", "title": "Johari Abdul-Malik", "text": "Johari Abdul-Malik\n\nJohari Abdul-Malik Ibn Winslow Seale (born in Brooklyn, New York City) is a convert to Islam, and has been the Director of Outreach for the Dar Al Hijrah Islamic Center in Northern Virginia since June 2002.\n\nHe is also the former Chair of the Coordinating Council of Muslim Organizations, the former head of the National Association of Muslim Chaplains in Higher Education, President of the Muslim Society of Washington, Inc., and a founding member of the Muslim Advocacy Commission of Washington, DC. In addition, he serves as the chair of government relations of the Muslim Alliance in North America.\n\nHis mother is from northern Louisiana, and his father is from Barbados. Abdul-Malik was raised as an Anglican by his African American parents in Brooklyn, New York, until \"at confirmation the teachings of the Ten Commandments exposed the inherent contradiction of western Christianity.\" He explored Taoism and \"Asian spirituality\" in high school.\n\nWhile attending Howard University in Washington, DC, where he began in 1974 and received a BS in Chemistry and an MS in Genetics and Human Genetics, he became a self-described Black activist, musician, and vegetarian, learning Transcendental Meditation. In graduate school he converted to Islam, and became President of the Muslim Student Association chapter at Howard. He completed his clinical post-graduate training program in Bioethics at the Georgetown University Kennedy Center for Ethics, completing his Ph.D. course work in Bioethics and Genetics.\n\nAbdul-Malik performed Hajj in 1994.\n\nIn November 1998 Abdul-Malik was named chaplain of Howard University. He served as the first officially recognized Muslim chaplain in higher education in the United States. Abdul-Malik resigned at the end of the spring 2004 semester.\n\nOn March 8, 2002, American Muslims for Global Peace and Justice held a press conference at the National Press Club. Abdul-Malik was a panelist, and began by saying that he did not speak for Howard University, mentioning that Sami Al-Arian, who was convicted of conspiring to aid the terrorist organization Palestinian Islamic Jihad, was fired from the University of South Florida allegedly for not making such a disclaimer, and the dean of Howard University insisted on the pre-speech statement. He claimed Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon started the Israeli–Palestinian conflict because it was in Sharon's political interests to have \"a police insecurity state,\" making people \"rally 'round the flag before fanning the flames.\" Abdul-Malik compared the Israeli separation barrier to South African apartheid and advocated and a moratorium on entertainers who perform in Israel. He accused the Israeli government of engaging in a scorched earth policy. However, he ended his speech by quoting the Qur'anic aphorism, \"Do not let your hatred of a people cause you to be unjust.\"\n\nJamil Abdullah Al-Amin (aka H. Rap Brown), former chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and later the militant Justice Minister of the Black Panther Party, was convicted on March 9, 2002, of murdering Ricky Leon Kinchen, a Fulton County, Georgia, sheriff's deputy, and wounding another officer in a gunbattle at his store. Abdul-Malik said he suspected Al-Amin was framed, and that \"Somebody has a vendetta against people like H. Rap Brown, because he stood up during a period of great repression in this country and said it mattered to him.\"\n\nWhen on March 20, 2002, the U.S. government raided 14 homes and offices of northern Virginia Muslims, in part to find evidence against Sami Al-Arian, Abdul-Malik said: \"Now the witch hunt has expanded into homes and families.\" In 2006, Al-Arian pleaded guilty to conspiracy to help a \"specially designated terrorist\" organization, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. He was sentenced to 57 months in prison.\n\nIn June 2002 Abdul-Malik joined the Dar al-Hijrah mosque as its Director of Outreach, and spokesman. The mosque uses a \"team approach\". He said: \"It's important that there's an American at the mosque to speak with media, to defend Islam who can talk about the rights of Muslims. It would be difficult for us if we had an imam who didn't understand the process here.\"\n\nAbdul-Malik denied claims that Dar al-Hijrah is a center of Islamic fundamentalism and a center for the promotion of extremist Salafism.\n\nAbdul-Malik and Reverend Graylan Hagler created the Ramadan Feed-the-Needy Program in Washington, DC, an organization that gives food to 100 homeless every night during Ramadan.\n\nIn November 2003 Abdul-Malik spoke up in defense of the recently arrested of Abdul Rahman al-Amoudi, founder of the American Muslim Council, who was indicted on charges of engaging in illegal financial transactions with Libya. Al-Amoudi's supporters maintained he was a respected member of the community. However, in 2004 al-Amoudi pleaded guilty to financial and conspiracy charges, and was sentenced to 23 year years in jail.\n\nWhen Ahmed Omar Abu Ali, who worshiped at Dar al-Hijrah and had been a camp counselor for and taught Islamic studies at the mosque, was charged by American prosecutors with plotting with members of Al Qaeda to assassinate President George W. Bush, Abdul-Malik said in February 2005: \"Our whole community is under siege. They don't see this as a case of criminality. They see it as a civil rights case. As a frontal attack on their community.\" He added: \"The feeling I get here on a daily basis must be what it was like to be a member of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s church following the case of Rosa Parks. People always ask, 'What is the latest from the courthouse?'\" Abu Ali was convicted in 2005 of providing material support to the al Qaeda terrorist network, and conspiracy to assassinate President Bush, and is serving a life sentence.\n\nWhen in April 2005 Ali al-Timimi of Fairfax, Virginia, an American-born Muslim cleric, was convicted of inciting followers to wage war against the US just days after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and for recruiting for the Pakistani terrorist organization Lashkar-e-Toiba, and the paintball terrorist cell, Abdul-Malik said: \"There is a view many Muslims have when they come to America that you could not be arrested for something you say. But now they have discovered they are not free to speak their minds. And if our opinions are out of vogue in the current climate, we feel we are all at risk.\" Al-Timimi was sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nAbdul-Malik defended the June 2005 choice of Shaker Elsayed, who has supported numerous terrorist suspects before they were convicted, as the new Imam at Dar al-Hijrah, saying that \"Elsayed is a good choice to lead Dar al-Hijrah because of his pre-eminence as a scholar and his ability to relate to both the immigrant and the native-born communities. Elsayed is an established religious authority who has previously served as imam at the Islamic Center of Washington.\" He said political sermons had \"to address the issues facing our community or else our faith will be irrelevant. That includes politics, education, health care ... the whole panoply of human issues.\"\n\nAfter the July 2005 London bombings that killed 55 people, a 30-second public service TV spot was run called \"Not in the Name of Islam,\" featuring Abdul-Malik and two American Muslim women. In the spot they said:\n\nWe often hear claims Muslims don't condemn terrorism and that Islam condones violence. As Muslims, we want to state clearly that those who commit acts of terror in the name of Islam are betraying the teachings of the Koran and the Prophet Mohammed. We reject anyone – of any faith – who commits such brutal acts and will not allow our faith to be hijacked by criminals. Islam is not about hatred and violence. It's about peace and justice.\n\nIn a press conference on July 25, 2005, Abdul-Malik said, \"People who would go out and kill anyone, of any religion, from any country, of any age, for no reason other than the fact they are angry, isolated and upset is against God by whatever name you call [him].\" He told reporters that the weekend before, when he attended his mosque, a young person told him someone had tried to \"recruit\" him, but Abdul-Malik said he had never heard of al Qaeda recruiting in his community. He said he told the youth, \"You need to alienate yourself from those people. They're saying to you that they're your friend, and that you'll be their confidant, when in reality, they're going to sell you out.\"\n\nIn January 2008, Abdul-Malik was trying to establish a nationwide movement of Muslim men to lobby for the new interpretation of Chapter 4, Verse 34 of the Koran. The verse has long interpreted as giving husbands the right to beat their wives as the final step in an escalating series of punishments for being rebellious (following admonishing their wives, and then abandoning them in bed). \"That is the linchpin, the fulcrum that justifies domestic violence in the Muslim context,\" he said. The new interpretation would interpret the verse as calling for women to be obedient to God.\n\nIn November 2009 Abdul-Malik responded to former Dar al-Hijrah Imam Anwar al-Awlaki's support of the Fort Hood shooter by saying:\n\nAl-Awlaqi ... supported the crime that Hasan committed and said that the US Muslims who opposed the crime have betrayed the Muslim ummah (the community of Muslims worldwide) and are hypocrites. I answer him by saying that he has thus separated himself from the Muslim community in the United States. The holy Koran teaches us that we as US Muslims should enrich the society we live in with humanitarian services, wisdom, teaching God's beautiful verses about love, mercy, and compassion to all mankind.\n\nAbdul-Malik went on to say that of those who worshiped at the mosque,\n\nMany of the immigrants focused on the conspiracy theory. Some said that Hasan did not commit the crime but that it was committed by other US military personnel who then killed him and said that he was the one who did it. They are like those who said that the 11 September attacks were not committed by those who committed them and that it too was a \"conspiracy.\" I am one of those whose ancestors came here hundreds of years ago. I am a black American, and I know that \"denial\" is the explanation of those who cannot explain what they see or hear, especially if they belong to a minority group and are not used to the US way of life. But we black Americans have passed these stages. We became involved in political action and the President of the United States is now one of us. Perhaps I am saying what I am saying because I was a Christian and became Muslim. But I believe that this issue is a temporary one, and we ask God to raise us from one stage to another.\nFormer colleague Abdul-Malik said in May 2010 that al-Awlaki \"is a terrorist, in my book\".\n\nAbdul-Malik resides in the DC area with his wife and has 3 children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1656707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1656707", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Japan", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Japan\n\nThe episcopate of the Catholic Church in Japan consists solely of a Latin hierarchy, joined in the Catholic Bishops' Conference of Japan.\n\nIt comprises sixteen ecclesiastical territories, called (arch)dioceses, led by residential prelate bishops: <br>three archdioceses, led by Metropolitan Archbishops, whose ecclesiastical provinces of the Roman Catholic Church include a total of thirteen suffragan sees.\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic, pre-diocesan or other exempt jurisdictions.\n\nThere are no titular sees. All defunct jurisdictions have current successor sees.\n\nThere is an Apostolic Nunciature to Japan as papal diplomatic representation at embassy-level in national capital Tokyo.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18533209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533209", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Malawi", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Malawi\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Malawi is composed of two ecclesiastical provinces and 6 suffragan dioceses. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6209871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6209871", "title": "List of Major Archbishops of Thiruvananthapuram", "text": "List of Major Archbishops of Thiruvananthapuram\n\nThe Major Archbishops of Thiruvananthapuram is the head of the Major Archdiocese of Thiruvananthapuram in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India. The Major Archbishop, a position equivalent to Patriarch and locally called as Head & Father of Syro-Malankara Catholic Church.\n\nPope Pius XI, through the Apostolic Constitution Christo Pastorum Principi of June 11, 1932, established the Syro-Malankara Hierarchy for the reunited community and erected the Archiparchy of Thiruvananthapuram with the Eparchy of Tiruvalla as its suffragan. The Metropolitan Eparchy of Thiruvananthapuram was established in 1933. Mar Ivanios was enthroned as its first Metropolitan Archbishop. The Eparchy of Tiruvalla was established in 1933. Jacob Mor Theophilos was enthroned as its first Bishop.\n\nOn February 10, 2005, the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church was raised to the status of a Major Archiepiscopal Church on that day by the papal document \"Ab ipso Sancto Thoma\", and as such possesses a high level of autonomy under the \"Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches\". Archbishop Pedro López Quintana, the Apostolic Nuncio in India, read the official declaration at St. Mary's Cathedral, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram. The Hierarchical Head of the Church became a Major Archbishop who exercises patriarchal powers and governs the Church assisted by the Holy Synod of Bishops of the Church. The title “Catholicos” is used according to the Antiochene-Malankara Tradition in referring to the \"Major Archbishop\" (a term recently adopted by the Latin Church to refer to Eastern bishops equal to patriarchal authority, without an historical Patriarchate).\n\nThe Father and Head of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, Baselios Cleemis was elevated to the College of Cardinals of the Catholic Church by Pope Benedict XVI at the Papal Basilica of Saint Peter in the Vatican on 24 November 2012. As Cardinal-Priest he was assigned the titular church of \"San Gregorio VII\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15358599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15358599", "title": "List of Spiritualist organizations", "text": "List of Spiritualist organizations\n\nThis is a list of Spiritualist organizations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43346382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43346382", "title": "Minority Affairs Department, Sindh", "text": "Minority Affairs Department, Sindh\n\nThe Minority Affairs Department is a department of the Government of Sindh, Pakistan. It was established in the 1995 with the religions Affairs, Auqaf, Zakat and Ushr departments, but became a separate department in 2010. \n\nThe department was created to safeguard the rights of minorities and facilitates in the formulation of overall policy, planning, coordination, evaluation and review of the regulatory framework.\n\n"}
{"id": "3191713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3191713", "title": "Nuremberg Laws", "text": "Nuremberg Laws\n\nThe Nuremberg Laws () were antisemitic and racial laws in Nazi Germany. They were enacted by the Reichstag on 15 September 1935, at a special meeting convened during the annual Nuremberg Rally of the Nazi Party (NSDAP). The two laws were the Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour, which forbade marriages and extramarital intercourse between Jews and Germans and the employment of German females under 45 in Jewish households; and the Reich Citizenship Law, which declared that only those of German or related blood were eligible to be Reich citizens; the remainder were classed as state subjects, without citizenship rights. A supplementary decree outlining the definition of who was Jewish was passed on 14 November, and the Reich Citizenship Law officially came into force on that date. The laws were expanded on 26 November 1935 to include Romani people. This supplementary decree defined Romanis as \"enemies of the race-based state\", the same category as Jews.\n\nOut of foreign policy concerns, prosecutions under the two laws did not commence until after the 1936 Summer Olympics, held in Berlin. After the Nazis seized power in 1933, they began to implement their policies, which included the formation of a \"Volksgemeinschaft\" (people's community) based on race. Chancellor and Führer (leader) Adolf Hitler declared a national boycott of Jewish businesses on 1 April 1933, and the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service, passed on 7 April, excluded non-Aryans from the legal profession and civil service. Books considered un-German, including those by Jewish authors, were destroyed in a nationwide book burning on 10 May. Jewish citizens were harassed and subjected to violent attacks. They were actively suppressed, stripped of their citizenship and civil rights, and eventually completely removed from German society.\n\nThe Nuremberg Laws had a crippling economic and social impact on the Jewish community. Persons convicted of violating the marriage laws were imprisoned, and (subsequent to 8 March 1938) upon completing their sentences were re-arrested by the Gestapo and sent to Nazi concentration camps. Non-Jews gradually stopped socialising with Jews or shopping in Jewish-owned stores, many of which closed due to lack of customers. As Jews were no longer permitted to work in the civil service or government-regulated professions such as medicine and education, many middle class business owners and professionals were forced to take menial employment. Emigration was problematic, as Jews were required to remit up to 90 per cent of their wealth as a tax upon leaving the country. By 1938 it was almost impossible for potential Jewish emigrants to find a country willing to take them. Mass deportation schemes such as the Madagascar Plan proved to be impossible for the Nazis to carry out, and starting in mid-1941, the German government started mass exterminations of the Jews of Europe.\n\nThe National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP; Nazi Party) was one of several far-right political parties active in Germany after the end of the First World War. The party platform included removal of the Weimar Republic, rejection of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, radical antisemitism, and anti-Bolshevism. They promised a strong central government, increased \"Lebensraum\" (living space) for Germanic peoples, formation of a \"Volksgemeinschaft\" (people's community) based on race, and racial cleansing via the active suppression of Jews, who would be stripped of their citizenship and civil rights.\n\nWhile imprisoned in 1924 after the failed Beer Hall Putsch, Hitler dictated \"Mein Kampf\" to his deputy, Rudolf Hess. The book is an autobiography and exposition of Hitler's ideology in which he laid out his plans for transforming German society into one based on race. In it he outlined his belief in Jewish Bolshevism, a conspiracy theory that posited the existence of an international Jewish conspiracy for world domination in which the Jews were the mortal enemy of the German people. Throughout his life Hitler never wavered in his world view as expounded in \"Mein Kampf\". The NSDAP advocated the concept of a \"Volksgemeinschaft\" (\"people's community\") with the aim of uniting all Germans as national comrades, whilst excluding those deemed either to be community aliens or of a foreign race (\"Fremdvölkische\").\n\nDiscrimination against Jews intensified after the NSDAP seized power; following a month-long series of attacks by members of the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA; paramilitary wing of the NSDAP) on Jewish businesses, synagogues, and members of the legal profession, on 1 April 1933 Hitler declared a national boycott of Jewish businesses. By 1933, many people who were not NSDAP members advocated segregating Jews from the rest of German society. The Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service, passed on 7 April 1933, forced all non-Aryans to retire from the legal profession and civil service. Similar legislation soon deprived Jewish members of other professions of their right to practise. In 1934, the NSDAP published a pamphlet titled \"Warum Arierparagraph?\" (\"Why the Aryan Law?\"), which summarised the perceived need for the law. As part of the drive to remove Jewish influence from cultural life, members of the National Socialist Student League removed from libraries any books considered un-German, and a nationwide book burning was held on 10 May. Violence and economic pressure were used by the regime to encourage Jews to voluntarily leave the country. Legislation passed in July 1933 stripped naturalised German Jews of their citizenship, creating a legal basis for recent immigrants (particularly Eastern European Jews) to be deported. Many towns posted signs forbidding entry to Jews. Throughout 1933 and 1934, Jewish businesses were denied access to markets, forbidden to advertise in newspapers, and deprived of access to government contracts. Citizens were harassed and subjected to violent attacks.\n\nOther laws promulgated in this period included the Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring (passed on 14 July 1933), which called for the compulsory sterilisation of people with a range of hereditary, physical, and mental illnesses. Under the Law against Dangerous Habitual Criminals (passed 24 November 1935), habitual criminals were forced to undergo sterilisation as well. This law was also used to force the incarceration in prison or Nazi concentration camps of \"social misfits\" such as the chronically unemployed, prostitutes, beggars, alcoholics, homeless vagrants, and Romani (referred to as \"Gypsies\").\n\nThe Central Office for Combatting Gypsies was established in 1929. In December 1938 \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler issued an order for \"combatting the Gypsy plague\". Romanis were to be categorised in terms of their Roma ancestry as a racial characteristic, rather than their previous association as 'anti-social' elements of society. This work was advanced by Dr Robert Ritter of the Racial Hygiene and Population unit of the Ministry of Health, who by 1942, had produced a scale of ZM+, ZM of the first and second degree, and ZM- to reflect an individual's decreasing level of Romani ancestry. This classification meant that one could be classified as Roma and subject to anti-Roma legislation on the basis of having two Roma great-great grandparents. Dr Zindel of the Ministry of the Interior prepared a draft of a Reich \"Gypsy Law\" intended to supplement and accompany the Nuremberg Laws. According to Zindel, the \"Gypsy problem\" could not be dealt with by forced resettlement or imprisonment within Germany. He recommended identification and registration of all Roma, followed by sterilisation and deportation. In 1938, public health authorities were ordered to register all Roma and Roma \"Mischlinge\". Despite Himmler's interest in enacting such legislation, which he said would prevent \"further intermingling of blood, and which regulates all the most pressing questions which go together with the existences of Gypsies in the living space of the German nation\", the regime never promulgated the \"Gypsy Law\". In December 1942, Himmler ordered that all Roma were to be sent to Nazi concentration camps.\n\nDisenchanted with the unfulfilled promise of the NSDAP to eliminate Jews from German society, SA members were eager to lash out against the Jewish minority as a way of expressing their frustrations. A Gestapo report from early 1935 stated that the rank and file of the NSDAP would set in motion a solution to the \"Jewish problem ... from below that the government would then have to follow\". Assaults, vandalism, and boycotts against Jews, which the Nazi government had temporarily curbed in 1934, increased again in 1935 amidst a propaganda campaign authorised at the highest levels of government. Most non-party members ignored the boycotts and objected to the violence out of concern for their own safety. The Israeli historian Otto Dov Kulka argues that there was a disparity between the views of the \"Alte Kämpfer\" (longtime party members) and the general public, but that even those Germans who were not politically active favoured bringing in tougher new antisemitic laws in 1935. The matter was raised to the forefront of the state agenda as a result of this antisemitic agitation.\n\nThe Interior Minister Wilhelm Frick announced on 25 July that a law forbidding marriages between Jews and non-Jews would shortly be promulgated, and recommended that registrars should avoid issuing licenses for such marriages for the time being. The draft law also called for a ban on marriage for persons with hereditary illnesses.\n\nDr. Hjalmar Schacht, the Economics Minister and Reichsbank president, criticised the violent behaviour of the \"Alte Kämpfer\" and SA because of its negative impact on the economy. The violence also had a negative impact on Germany's reputation in the international community. For these reasons, Hitler ordered a stop to \"individual actions\" against German Jews on 8 August 1935, and the Interior Minister Wilhelm Frick threatened to take legal action against Party members who ignored the order. From Hitler's perspective, it was imperative to quickly bring in new antisemitic laws to appease the radical elements in the NSDAP who persisted in attempting to remove the Jews from German society by violent means. A conference of ministers was held on 20 August 1935 to discuss the question. Hitler argued against violent methods because of the damage being done to the economy, and insisted the matter must be settled through legislation. The focus of the new laws would be marriage laws to prevent \"racial defilement\", stripping Jews of their German citizenship, and laws to prevent Jews from participating freely in the economy.\n\nThe seventh annual Nazi Party Rally, held in Nuremberg from 10–16 September 1935, featured the only Reichstag session held outside Berlin during the Nazi regime. Hitler decided that the rally would be a good opportunity to introduce the long-awaited anti-Jewish laws. In a speech on 12 September, leading Nazi physician Gerhard Wagner announced that the government would soon introduce a \"law for the protection of German blood\". The next day, Hitler summoned the Reichstag to meet in session at Nuremberg on 15 September, the last day of the rally. Franz Albrecht Medicus and Bernhard Lösener of the Interior Ministry were summoned to Nuremberg and directed to start preparing a draft of a law forbidding sexual relations or marriages between Jews and non-Jews. The two men arrived on 14 September. That evening, Hitler ordered them to also have ready by morning a draft of the Reich citizenship law. Hitler found the initial drafts of the Blood Law to be too lenient, so at around midnight Frick brought him four new drafts that differed mainly in the severity of the penalties they imposed. Hitler chose the most lenient version, but left vague the definition of who was a Jew. Hitler stated at the rally that the laws were \"an attempt at the legal settlement of a problem, which, if this proved a failure, would have to be entrusted by law to the National Socialist Party for a definitive solution\". Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels had the radio broadcast of the passing of the laws cut short, and ordered the German media to not mention them until a decision was made as to how they would be implemented.\n\nThe two Nuremberg Laws were unanimously passed by the Reichstag on 15 September 1935. The Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour prohibited marriages and extramarital intercourse between Jews and Germans, and forbade the employment of German females under 45 in Jewish households. The Reich Citizenship Law declared that only those of German or related blood were eligible to be Reich citizens; the remainder were classed as state subjects, without citizenship rights. The wording in the Citizenship Law that a person must prove \"by his conduct that he is willing and fit to faithfully serve the German people and Reich\" meant that political opponents could also be stripped of their German citizenship. This law was effectively a means of stripping Jews, Roma, and other \"undesirables\" of their legal rights, and their citizenship.\n\nOver the coming years, an additional 13 supplementary laws were promulgated that further marginalised the Jewish community in Germany. For example, Jewish families were not permitted to submit claims for subsidies for large families and were forbidden to transact business with Aryans.\n\nMoved by the understanding that purity of German blood is the essential condition for the continued existence of the German people, and inspired by the inflexible determination to ensure the existence of the German nation for all time, the Reichstag has unanimously adopted the following law, which is promulgated herewith:\n\nExtramarital relations between Jews and citizens of German or related blood are forbidden.\nJews may not employ in their households female citizens of German or related blood who are under 45 years old.\nThe Reich Minister of the Interior, in co-ordination with the Deputy of the Führer and the Reich Minister of Justice, will issue the legal and administrative regulations required to implement and complete this law.\nThe law takes effect on the day following promulgation, except for Article 3, which goes into force on 1 January 1936.\n\nThe Reichstag has unanimously enacted the following law, which is promulgated herewith:\n\nThe Reich Minister of the Interior, in co-ordination with the Deputy of the Führer, will issue the legal and administrative orders required to implement and complete this law.\n\nWhile both the Interior Ministry and the NSDAP agreed that persons with three or more Jewish grandparents would be classed as being Jewish and those with only one (\"Mischlinge\" of the second degree) would not, a debate arose as to the status of persons with two Jewish grandparents (\"Mischlinge\" of the first degree). The NSDAP, especially its more radical elements, wanted the laws to apply to \"Mischlinge\" of both the first and second degree. For this reason Hitler continued to stall, and did not make a decision until early November 1935. His final ruling was that persons with three Jewish grandparents were classed as Jewish; those with two Jewish grandparents would be considered Jewish only if they practised the faith or had a Jewish spouse. The supplementary decree outlining the definition of who was Jewish was passed on 14 November, and the Reich Citizenship Law came into force on that date. Jews were no longer German citizens and did not have the right to vote. Jews and Gypsies were not allowed to vote in Reichstag elections or the Anschluss. Civil servants who had been granted an exemption to the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service because of their status as war veterans were forced out of their jobs on this date. A supplementary decree issued on 21 December ordered the dismissal of Jewish veterans from other state-regulated professions such as medicine and education.\n\nWhile Frick's suggestion that a citizenship tribunal before which every German would have to prove that they were Aryan was not acted upon, proving one's racial heritage became a necessary part of daily life. Non-government employers were authorised to include in their statutes an Aryan paragraph excluding both \"Mischlinge\" and Jews from employment. Proof of Aryan descent was achieved by obtaining an Aryan certificate. One form was to acquire an \"Ahnenpass\", which could be obtained by providing birth or baptismal certificates that all four grandparents were of Aryan descent. The \"Ahnenpass\" could also be acquired by citizens of other countries, as long as they were of \"German or related blood\".\n\nUnder the \"Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour\" (15 September 1935), marriages were forbidden between Jews and Germans; between \"Mischlinge\" of the first degree and Germans; between Jews and \"Mischlinge\" of the second degree; and between two \"Mischlinge\" of the second degree. \"Mischlinge\" of the first degree were permitted to marry Jews, but they would henceforth be classed as Jewish themselves. All marriages undertaken between half-Jews and Germans required the approval of a Committee for the Protection of German Blood. Few such permissions were granted. A supplementary decree issued on 26 November 1935 extended the law to \"Gypsies, Negroes, and their bastards\".\nPersons suspected of having sexual relations with non-Aryans were charged with \"Rassenschande\" (racial defilement) and tried in the regular courts. Evidence provided to the Gestapo for such cases was largely provided by ordinary citizens such as neighbours, co-workers, or other informants. Persons accused of race defilement were publicly humiliated by being paraded through the streets with a placard around their necks detailing their crime. Those convicted were typically sentenced to prison terms, and (subsequent to 8 March 1938) upon completing their sentences were re-arrested by the Gestapo and sent to Nazi concentration camps. As the law did not permit capital punishment for racial defilement, special courts were convened to allow the death penalty for some cases. From the end of 1935 through 1940, 1,911 people were convicted of \"Rassenschande\". Over time, the law was extended to include non-sexual forms of physical contact such as greeting someone with a kiss or an embrace.\n\nFor the most part, Germans accepted the Nuremberg Laws, partly because Nazi propaganda had successfully swayed public opinion towards the general belief that Jews were a separate race, but also because to oppose the regime meant leaving oneself open to harassment or arrest by the Gestapo. Citizens were relieved that the antisemitic violence ceased after the laws were passed. Non-Jews gradually stopped socialising with Jews or shopping in Jewish-owned stores. Wholesalers who continued to serve Jewish merchants were marched through the streets with placards around their necks proclaiming them as traitors. The Communist party and some elements of the Catholic Church were critical of the laws. Concerned that international opinion would be adversely swayed by the new laws, the Interior Ministry did not actively enforce them until after the 1936 Summer Olympics, held in Berlin that August.\n\nThe Interior Ministry estimated there were 750,000 \"Mischlinge\" as of April 1935 (studies done after the war put the number of \"Mischlinge\" at around 200,000). As Jews became more and more excluded from German society, they organised social events, schools, and activities of their own. Economic problems were not so easily solved, however; many Jewish firms went out of business due to lack of customers. This was part of the ongoing Aryanization process (the transfer of Jewish firms to non-Jewish owners, usually at prices far below market value) that the regime had initiated in 1933, which intensified after the Nuremberg Laws were passed. Former middle-class or wealthy business owners were forced to take employment in menial jobs to support their families, and many were unable to find work at all.\n\nAlthough a stated goal of the Nazis was that all Jews should leave the country, emigration was problematic, as Jews were required to remit up to 90 per cent of their wealth as a tax upon leaving the country. Anyone caught transferring their money overseas were sentenced to lengthy terms in prison as \"economic saboteurs\". An exception was money sent to Palestine under the terms of the Haavara Agreement, whereby Jews could transfer some of their assets and emigrate to that country. Around 52,000 Jews emigrated to Palestine under the terms of this agreement between 1933 and 1939.\n\nBy the start of the Second World War in 1939, around 250,000 of Germany's 437,000 Jews had emigrated to the United States, Palestine, Great Britain, and other countries. By 1938 it was becoming almost impossible for potential Jewish emigrants to find a country that would take them. After the 1936–39 Arab revolt, the British were disinclined to accept any more Jews into Palestine for fear it would further destabilise the region. Nationalistic and xenophobic people in other countries pressured their governments not to accept waves of Jewish immigrants, especially poverty-stricken ones. The Madagascar Plan, a proposed mass deportation of European Jews to Madagascar, proved to be impossible to carry out. Starting in mid-1941, the German government started mass exterminations of the Jews of Europe. The total number of Jews murdered during the resulting Holocaust is estimated at 5.5 to 6 million people. Estimates of the death toll of Romanis in the Porajmos range from 150,000 to 1,500,000.\n\nSome of the other Axis powers passed their own versions of the Nuremberg Laws.\n\nAn original typescript of the laws signed by Hitler was found by the US Army's Counterintelligence Corps in 1945. It ended up in the possession of General George S. Patton, who kept it, in violation of orders that such finds should be turned over to the government. During a visit to Los Angeles in 1945, he handed it over to the Huntington Library, where it was stored in a bomb-proof vault. The library revealed the existence of the document in 1999, and sent it on permanent loan to the Skirball Cultural Center, which placed it on public display. The document was transferred to the National Archives and Records Administration in Washington in August 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13932631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13932631", "title": "Pattavali", "text": "Pattavali\n\nA Pattavali (From Sanskrit patta: seat, avali: chain), Sthaviravali or Theravali, is a record of a spiritual lineage of heads of monastic orders. They are thus spiritual genealogies. It is generally presumed that two successive names are teacher and pupil. The term is applicable for all Indian religions, but is generally used for Jain monastic orders.\n\nThere are several famous pattavalis which are often used to establish historical chronologies:\n\n\nGlasenapp notes that although the chronological list mentioned in pattavali are valuable, it is not reliable.\n\n\"Pattavali\" states the lineage of Jain monks.\n\nAccording to 600 AD inscription at Sravanabelagola, Harivansha Purana, Jambuddvita Pannati and Kalpasutra, the \"Pattavali\" (lineage) after Mahavira, 24th \"tirthankara\", is traced as follows. Bhadrabahu was the last leader of the undivided Sangha. After him there were two branches in the lineage. In both branches, some of the oral tradition was gradually lost. The two branches eventually became the two traditions Digambaras and the Svetambaras, although formal recognition of the separation is encountered in the 5th century CE. Kalpasutra gives a lineage starting with Pushyagiri after Vajrasena ending with Kshamashramna Devarddhi, the president of the Vallabhi council. The canonical books of the Svetambaras were produced in writing in this Council. The Kalpasutra also mentions ganas and shakhas established by other disciples of Bhadrabahu, Sambhutavijaya, Mahagiri etc. The Brihat-Kharataragachchha pattavali gives the name of Chandra after Vajrasena, the lineage continues until Udyotana, the founder of Brihadgachcha.\n\n\nAccording to Digambar tradition, the monastic lineage after bhadrabahu was:\n\n\nArhadvali is said to have been the founder for the divisions of the Mula Sangha.\n\nThe lineage from Bhadrabahu according to Svetambara tradition is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139200", "title": "People's Reform Party", "text": "People's Reform Party\n\nThe People's Reform Party (abbrev: PRP) () is a centre-left political party in the Philippines. Founded on April 12, 1991 as the political party of former Agrarian Reform Secretary Miriam Defensor Santiago for her bid as President in the 1992 Presidential Elections. During the 1992 Elections, the party nominated Santiago as President and Ramon Magsaysay, Jr. as Vice President respectively, however both Santiago and Magsaysay lost the elections to former Defense Secretary Fidel Ramos and Senator Joseph Estrada.\n\nThe following members run under the People's Reform Party for the following positions:\n\nThe following politicians won under the People's Reform Party during the 1992 general elections in the Philippines:\n\nThe following run under the banner of People's Reform Party in the 1995 election:\n\n\nAndres Serrano\n\nRomulo Bernardes\n\n\n\n\n\nCandidates:\n(none)\n\nThe leader Miriam Defensor Santiago and her PRP joined the Puwersa ng Masa coalition of the opposition ticket under deposed President Joseph Estrada.\n\nThe leader Miriam Defensor Santiago and her PRP joined the K-4 coalition of the administration ticket under Gloria Macapagal Arroyo.\n\nPeople's Reform Party leader Miriam Defensor Santiago was invited by Nacionalista Party standard bearer Manuel \"Manny\" Villar, Jr. as one of his senatorial guest candidates. PRP was also in coalition with two other parties, Lakas-Kampi CMD and Partido ng Masang Pilipino on the senatorial election. Mike Defensor ran under People's Reform Party in the Quezon City mayoralty race but lost the polls. Arthur Defensor, Sr. ran for the governorship of Iloilo and won the polls, he also caucuses with the Nacionalista Party and Lakas-Kampi-CMD.\n\nOn October 13, 2015, Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago announced her intention to run for president in the 2016 elections. She also announced Ferdinand \"Bongbong\" Marcos Jr. as her running mate for vice president.\n\nCandidates:\n\nMiriam Defensor Santiago died 29 September 2016 at the St. Luke's Medical Center in Taguig from lung cancer. Though the party exists for the political career of Mrs. Santiago, it agreed through Santiago's widow, Narciso Jr. to nominate Harry Roque as candidate for the Philippine Senate. Roque's nomination was arranged through the auspices of Davao City mayor Sara Duterte, daughter of President Rodrigo Duterte. The nomination of Roque sparked wide criticism, garnering massive backlash notably from stern supporters of the late senator and PRP founder Miriam Defensor Santiago. Various organizations called Roque a 'user' and was 'destroying the image' of PRP and the late Miriam Santiago. Additionally, Roque's already low public appeal degraded further from 8.7% in March 2018 into 8% in October 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "435081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435081", "title": "Pharnavaz I of Iberia", "text": "Pharnavaz I of Iberia\n\nPharnavaz I ( ) was a king of Kartli, an ancient Georgian kingdom known as Iberia in the Classical antiquity. \"The Georgian Chronicles\" credits him with being the first monarch founding the kingship of Kartli and the Pharnavazid dynasty, while other independent chronicles, \"The Conversion of Kartli\" makes him the second Georgian monarch. Based on the medieval evidence, most scholars locate Pharnavaz’s rule in the 3rd century BC: 302–237 BC according to Prince Vakhushti of Kartli, 299–234 BC according to Cyril Toumanoff and 284–219 BC according to Pavle Ingoroqva. Pharnavaz's rise and the advent of the Iberian monarchy was directly tied to the victory of Alexander the Great over the Achaemenid Empire.\n\nAccording to the \"Georgian royal annals\", Pharnavaz descended from Uplos, son of Mtskhetos, son of Kartlos, who was one of the powerful and famous eight brothers, who from their part were descendants of Targamos, son of Tarsi, the grandson of Japheth, son of the Biblical Noah. He is not directly attested in non-Georgian sources and there is no definite contemporary indication that he was indeed the first of the Georgian kings. His story is saturated with legendary imagery and symbols, and it seems feasible that, as the memory of the historical facts faded, the real Pharnavaz \"accumulated a legendary façade\" and emerged as the model pre-Christian monarch in the Georgian annals.\n\nAccording to the c. 800 chronicle \"The Life of Kings\", Pharnavaz had a distinguished genealogy, tracing back to Kartlos, the mythical ethnarch of Kartli. His paternal uncle, Samara, held the position of \"mamasakhlisi\" (\"father of the house\") of the Georgian tribes around Mtskheta. Pharnavaz’s mother is claimed to have been a Persian woman from Isfahan, whom Prince Teimuraz of Georgia and Patriarch Anton I of Georgia identify with a daughter of King Darius III. The entire story of Pharnavaz, although written by a Christian chronicler, abounds in ancient Iranian-like imagery and mystic allusions, a reflection of the archaeologically confirmed cultural and presumably political ties between Iran and Kartli of that time. The name \"Pharnavaz\" is also an illustrative example with its root \"par\"- being based upon the Persian \"farnah\", the divine radiance believed by the ancient Iranians to mark a legitimate dynast (cf. \"khvarenah\"). The dynastic tag Parnavaziani (\"of/from/named for Pharnavaz\") is also preserved in the early Armenian histories as P'arnawazean (\"Faustus of Byzantium\" 5.15; fifth century) and P'arazean (\"History of Armenia\" 14; probably the early fifth century), an acknowledgment that a king named Pharnavaz was understood to have been the founder of a Georgian dynasty. Pharnavaz is also mentioned in the Armazi stele of Serapit.\n\nPerhaps the most artistically rounded section of the Georgian annals, the narrative follows Pharnavaz's life from birth to burial. Aged 3, small Pharnavaz's family is destroyed, and his heritage is usurped by Azon installed by Alexander the Great during his campaign in Kartli. Alexander's invasion of Iberia, remembered not only by the Georgian historical tradition, but also by Pliny the Elder (4.10.39) and Gaius Julius Solinus (9.19), appears to be memory of some Macedonian interference in Iberia, which must have taken place in connection with the expedition mentioned by Strabo (11.14.9) sent by Alexander in 323 BC to the confines of Iberia, in search of gold mines. \n\nPharnavaz is brought up fatherless, but a magic dream, in which he anoints himself with the essence of the Sun, heralds the peripeteia. He is persuaded by this vision to \"devote [himself] to noble deeds\". He then sets off and goes hunting. In a pursuit of a deer, he encounters a mass of treasure stored in a hidden cave. Pharnavaz retrieves the treasure and exploits it to mount a loyal army against the tyrannical Azon. He is aided by Kuji of Colchis, who eventually marries Pharnavaz's sister. The rebels are also joined by 1,000 soldiers from Azon's camp; they are anachronistically referred to by the author as Romans, and claimed to have been entitled by the victorious Pharnavaz as \"aznauri\" (i.e., nobles) after Azon (this etymology is false, however).\n\nThe main threads of Pharnavaz's story - a fatherless boy hidden and raised in a remote mountains, a forgotten lineage, his dreams, sacral kingship, solar imagery, the hunt, discovery of cave-concealed treasure etc. are reminiscent of legends about Iran's founding kings, like Cyrus the Great and Ardashir I. Pharnavaz's self-anointment may have a Sasanian inspiration, as some early \"Shahanshahs\" crowned themselves.\n\nIn the ensuing battle, Azon is defeated and killed, and Pharnavaz becomes the king of Kartli at the age of 27. He is reported to have acknowledged the suzerainty of the Seleucids, the Hellenistic successors of Alexander in the Middle East, who are afforded by the Georgian chronicles the generic name of Antiochus.\n\nPharnavaz is also said to have patterned his administration upon an \"Iranian\" model.\n\nPharnavaz had introduced a military-administrative organization based on a network of regional governors or \"eristavi\". The insignia of the eristavi, received from the king, constituted a sceptre, a special signet ring, belt and armament. Iberia had in total seven eristavis, in Colchis, Kakheti, Khunani (modern-day northern Azerbaijan), Samshvilde (Kvemo Kartli), Tsunda (included Javakheti, Kola and Artaani), Odzrkhe and Klarjeti. The kingdom had one spaspet who was under the direct control of the royal power based in Inner Kartli. Eristavates mimicked aspects of Achaemenid \"satrapies\" and Seleucid \"strategoi\". The major motive of later historian of the chronicles was to convince posterity that the basic political structure of Kartli was created by the very first Georgian monarch in the wake of Wars of Alexander the Great; was of Achaemenid administrative system and had remained stable throughout Hellenistic, Parthian and Sasanian times. In this way, the long-term viability and stability of the Georgian realm are established.\n\nThe hierarchic structure created by Pharnavaz was the following: king; commander-in-chief (spaspet) of the royal army; eristavis; middle commanders (\"atasistavis tsikhistavis\") of the garrisons stationed in the royal strongholds; junior commanders (\"asistavis\") who were the younger sons of the aristocratic families; mercenary professional warriors from the neighboring countries and all the soldiers organized around the entire kingdom.\n\nIt is evident that the division of Iberia by Pharnavaz into saeristavos served first and foremost a military aim, namely the organization of people for the purpose of defence. This organization was not so much directed against other countries. Back then the total population of the kingdom would have been, including foreign captives and the population of the tributary areas, about 600,000, which could raise a fairly big army not less than 100,000. According to Strabo the Iberian army numbered 70-80,000 so it appears that each saeristavo had 10,000 soldiers.\n\nWhile Georgian and Classical evidence makes the contemporaneous Kartlian links with the Seleucids plausible (Toumanoff has even implied that the kings of Kartli might have aided the Seleucids in holding the resurgent Orontids of Armenia in check), Pharnavaz's alleged reform of the eristavi fiefdoms is most likely a back-projection of the medieval pattern of subdivision to the remote past.\n\nPharnavaz is then reported to have embarked on social and cultural projects; he supervised two building projects: the raising of the idol Armazi – reputedly named after him – on a mountain ledge and the construction of a similarly named fortress.\n\nPharnavaz made alliances with various North Caucasian peoples during his reign, to whom he called upon for help against both Macedonia and internal foes. He took a Durdzuk woman in marriage, in order to consolidate the alliance of Iberia with the Durdzuks, who helped him consolidate his reign against his unruly vassals. Similarly he married his sister to a Sarmatian chief.\n\nAccording to the \"Georgian royal annals\" he also created the Georgian script and made the Georgian language an official language of the kingdom:\n\nThe chronicles report Pharnavaz's lengthy reign of 65 years.\n\nUpon his death, he was buried in front of the idol Armazi and worshipped. His son Saurmag succeeded him to the throne.\n\nPharnavaz's grave is undisclosed so far. One of the last monarchs who visited his grave to adorn it and pay his respects was King Mirian III. Pharnavaz's very burial in front of idol Armazi suggests a Hellenistic deification of the early monarchs of Iberia.\n\nSeveral modern scholars have been tempted to make identification between the Pharnavaz of the medieval Georgian tradition and the Pharasmanes of the Greco-Roman historian Arrian, a 2nd-century AD author of \"The Anabasis of Alexander\". Arrian recounts that \"Pharasmanes (Фαρασμάνης), king of the Chorasmians\", visited Alexander the Great with 1500 horseman, and pledged his support should Alexander desire to campaign to the Euxine lands and subdue Colchians, whom Pharasmanes names as his neighbors. Apart from the similarity of the names of Pharasmanes and Pharnavaz (both names are apparently based on the same root, the Iranian \"farnah\"), the king of Chorasmia in Central Asia reports Colchis (today’s western Georgia, i.e., the western neighbor of ancient Kartli/Iberia) to be a neighboring country. Some Georgian scholars have suggested that the Greek copyists of Arrian might have confused Chorasmia with Cholarzene (Chorzene), a Classical rendering of the southwest Georgian marchlands (the medieval Tao-Klarjeti), which indeed bordered with Colchis and Pontus.\n\nAccording to Arrian:\n\nThe Bagrationi dynasty claimed descent directly from Pharnavaz. During the continuity of monarchy in Georgia, the Georgian kings presented themselves as heirs to the Kingdom of Iberia founded by King Pharnavaz.\n\nIn Tbilisi there is a King Pharnavaz Street, Avenue, and also a statue of Pharnavaz. Also, there are streets named after Pharnavaz in Batumi, Kutaisi, Khashuri, Gori, Gurjaani, Sachkhere, Zestaponi and others. Some buildings, including schools and hotels, also bear his name, as well as about five hundred Georgians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1343908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343908", "title": "Postulant", "text": "Postulant\n\nA postulant (from , to ask) was originally one who makes a request or demand; hence, a candidate. The use of the term is now generally restricted to those asking for admission into a monastery or a religious institute, both before actual admission and for the period of time preceding their admission into the novitiate. Currently, however, common usage terms the person who has not yet been accepted by the institution as an \"inquirer\" or \"observer\".\n\nThe term is most commonly used in the Catholic Church and the Anglican Communion (which includes the Episcopal Church, which uses the term to designate those who are seeking ordination to the diaconate or priesthood. Postulancy is generally considered the first formal step leading to candidacy and ordination). The Eastern Orthodox Churches uses this term less frequently.\n\nThe length of time that a prospective candidate remains a postulant may vary depending on the institution, or the postulant's individual situation. Among active religious institutions, it typically lasted 4–6 months. At present, many monasteries have a candidate spend 1–2 years in this stage. During this time, the postulant generally participates as fully as possible in the life of the community, joining the novices and professed members for work and prayer.\n\nSince the candidate is not a formal member of the institution at this stage, it is easier for a man or woman not fully certain about religious life to re-examine his or her intentions and commitment before entering the novitiate. Likewise, should the person be determined to be unsuited to the life, a postulant can be dismissed by an institution without the need for any formal procedure.\n\nThe term is also sometimes used to describe the ecclesiastical status of a person who has discerned a call to the priesthood or to the diaconate and has received parish and diocesan endorsement. The candidate retains postulant status throughout seminary, until ordination to the transitional diaconate takes place. The postulant who will not pursue ordination into the priesthood is ordained into the vocational diaconate.\n\nIn college fraternities, the term \"postulant\" is also used to describe those who have yet to be initiated into the fraternity, while they are going through the process of becoming a brother or a sister.\n"}
{"id": "24805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24805", "title": "Prophet", "text": "Prophet\n\nIn religion, a prophet is an individual regarded as being in contact with a divine being and said to speak on that entity's behalf, serving as an intermediary with humanity by delivering messages or teachings from the supernatural source to other people. The message that the prophet conveys is called a prophecy.\n\nClaims of prophethood have existed in many cultures through history, including Judaism, Christianity, Islam, in ancient Greek religion, Zoroastrianism, Manichaeism, and many others.\n\nIn Hebrew, the word נָבִיא (\"nāvî\"), \"spokesperson\", traditionally translates as \"prophet\". The second subdivision of the Hebrew Bible, TaNaKh (for \"Torah, Nevi'im, Ketuvim\"), is devoted to the Hebrew prophets. The meaning of \"navi\" is perhaps described in Deuteronomy 18:18, where God said, \"...and I will put My words in his mouth, and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him.\" Thus, the \"navi\" was thought to be the \"mouth\" of God. The root nun-bet-alef (\"navi\") is based on the two-letter root nun-bet which denotes hollowness or openness; to receive transcendental wisdom, one must make oneself \"open\". Cf. Rashbam's comment to Genesis 20:7.\n\nIn addition to writing and speaking messages from God, Israelite or Jewish nevi'im (\"spokespersons\", \"prophets\") often acted out prophetic parables in their life. For example, in order to contrast the people’s disobedience with the obedience of the Rechabites, God has Jeremiah invite the Rechabites to drink wine, in disobedience to their ancestor’s command. The Rechabites refuse, wherefore God commends them. Other prophetic parables acted out by Jeremiah include burying a linen belt so that it gets ruined to illustrate how God intends to ruin Judah's pride. Likewise, Jeremiah buys a clay jar and smashes it in the Valley of Ben Hinnom in front of elders and priests to illustrate that God will smash the nation of Judah and the city of Judah beyond repair. God instructs Jeremiah to make a yoke from wood and leather straps and to put it on his own neck to demonstrate how God will put the nation under the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. In a similar way, the prophet Isaiah had to walk stripped and barefoot for three years to illustrate the coming captivity, and the prophet Ezekiel had to lie on his side for 390 days and eat measured food to illustrate the coming siege.\n\nThe prophetic assignment is not always portrayed as positive in the Hebrew Bible, and prophets were often the target of persecution and opposition. God’s personal prediction for Jeremiah, \"Attack you they will, overcome you they can't,\" was performed many times in the biblical narrative as Jeremiah warned of destruction of those who continued to refuse repentance and accept more moderate consequences. In return for his adherence to God’s discipline and speaking God’s words, Jeremiah was attacked by his own brothers, beaten and put into the stocks by a priest and false prophet, imprisoned by the king, threatened with death, thrown into a cistern by Judah’s officials, and opposed by a false prophet. Likewise, Isaiah was told by his hearers who rejected his message, \"Leave the way! Get off the path! Let us hear no more about the Holy One of Israel!\" The life of Moses being threatened by Pharaoh is another example.\n\nAccording to I Samuel 9:9, the old name for navi is \"ro'eh\", רֹאֶה, which literally means \"Seer\". That could document an ancient shift, from viewing prophets as seers for hire to viewing them as moral teachers. Allen (1971) comments that in the First Temple Era, there were essentially seer-priests, who formed a guild, divined, performed rituals and sacrifices, and were scribes, and then there were canonical prophets, who did none of these (and were against divination) and had instead a message to deliver. The seer-priests were usually attached to a local shrine or temple, such as Shiloh, and initiated others as priests in that priesthood: it was a mystical craft-guild with apprentices and recruitment. Canonical prophets were not organised this way. The similar term \"ben-navi\" (\"son of the prophet\") means \"member of a seer-priest guild\".\n\nSome examples of prophets in the Tanakh include Abraham, Moses, Miriam, Isaiah, Samuel, Ezekiel, Malachi, and Job. In Jewish tradition Daniel is not counted in the list of prophets.\n\nA Jewish tradition suggests that there were twice as many prophets as the number which left Egypt, which would make 1,200,000 prophets. The Talmud recognizes the existence of 48 male prophets who bequeathed permanent messages to mankind. According to the Talmud there were also seven women who are counted as prophetesses whose message bears relevance for all generations: Sarah, Miriam, Devorah, Hannah (mother of the prophet Samuel), Abigail (a wife of King David), Huldah (from the time of Jeremiah), and Esther. The Jewish Rabbi Rashi points out that Rebecca, Rachel, and Leah were also prophets.\nIsaiah 8:3-4refers he married \"the prophetess\", which conceived and gave to him a son, named by God Mahèr-salàl-cash-baz. Her name isn't elsewhere specified.\n\nProphets in Tanakh are not always Jews. The story of Balaam in Numbers 22 describes a non-Jewish prophet. According to the Talmud, Obadiah is said to have been a convert to Judaism.\n\nThe last nevi'im (\"spokespersons\", \"prophets\") mentioned in the Jewish Bible are Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi, all of whom lived at the end of the 70-year Babylonian exile. The Talmud (Sanhedrin 11a) states that Haggai, Zachariah, and Malachi were the last prophets, and nowadays only the \"Bath Kol\" (בת קול, lit. \"daughter of a voice\", \"voice of God\") exists.\n\nIn Christianity a prophet (or seer) is one inspired by God through the Holy Spirit to deliver a message for a specific purpose. God's calling of someone as a prophet does not have the purpose of to elevating an individual for their own glory, but for the glory of God and to turn people to him. Some Christian denominations limit a prophet's message to words intended only for the entire church congregation, excluding personal messages not intended for the body of believers; but in the Bible on a number of occasions prophets were called to deliver personal messages. The reception of a message is termed revelation and the delivery of the message is termed prophecy.\n\nThe term \"prophet\" applies to those who receive public or private revelation. Public revelation, in Catholicism, is part of the Deposit of faith, the revelation of which was completed by Jesus; whereas Private Revelation does not add to the Deposit. The term \"deposit of faith\" refers to the entirety of Jesus Christ's revelation, and is passed to successive generations in two different forms, sacred scripture (the Bible) and sacred tradition.\n\nThe Bible terms anyone who claims to speak God's words or to teach in his name without being a prophet a false prophet. One Old Testament text in the Deuteronomy contains a warning against those who prophesy events which do not come to pass and says they should be put to death. Elsewhere a false prophet may be someone who is purposely trying to deceive, is delusional, under the influence of Satan or is speaking from his own spirit.\n\nSome Christians who believe in dispensationalism believe prophecy ended (along with the rest of the sign gifts) shortly after the coming of Jesus, who delivered the \"fullness of the law\". Within this group, many Protestants believe that prophecy ended with the last of the Hebrew prophets of the Hebrew Bible, leaving a gap of about 400 years between then and the life of Jesus. The majority of Christians, including the Eastern Orthodox, allow an exception for John the Baptist as a prophet contemporary with Jesus.\n\nNew Testament passages that explicitly discuss prophets existing after the death and resurrection of Christ include Revelation 11:10, Matthew 10:40–41 and 23:34, John 13:20 and 15:20 and Acts 11:25–30, 13:1 and 15:32. Christians believe that the Holy Spirit leads people to faith in Jesus and gives them the ability to lead a Christian life and to give gifts (i.e. abilities) to Christians. These may include the charismatic gifts such as prophecy, tongues, miraculous healing ability, and clairsentience. Christians holding a view known as cessationism believe that these gifts were given only in New Testament times and that they ceased after the last apostle died.\n\nThe \"Didache\" gives extensive instruction in how to distinguish between true and false prophets, as well as commands regarding tithes to prophets in the church. Irenaeus, wrote of 2nd-century believers with the gift of prophecy, while Justin Martyr argued in his \"Dialogue with Trypho\" that prophets were not found among the Jews in his time, but that the church had prophets. \"The Shepherd of Hermas\" describes revelation in a vision regarding the proper operation of prophecy in the church. Eusebius mentions that Quadratus and Ammia of Philadelphia were both prominent prophets following the age of the Twelve Apostles. Tertullian, writing of the church meetings of the Montanists (to whom he belonged), described in detail the practice of prophecy in the 2nd-century church.\n\nA number of later Christian saints were claimed to have powers of prophecy, such as Columba of Iona (521-597), Saint Malachy (1094-1148) or Padre Pio (1887-1968). Marian apparitions like those at Fatima in 1917 or at Kibeho in Rwanda in the 1980s often included prophetic predictions regarding the future of the world as well as of the local areas they occurred in.\n\nProphetic movements in particular can be traced throughout the Christian Church's history, expressing themselves in (for example) Montanism, Novatianism, Donatism, Franciscanism, Anabaptism, Camisard enthusiasm, Puritanism, Quakerism, Quietism, Lutheranism and Pietism. Modern Pentecostals and Charismatics, members of movements which together comprised approximately 584 million people , believe in the contemporary function of the gift of prophecy, and some in these movements allow for idea that God may continue to gift the church with some individuals who are prophets. \n\nSome Christians also believe that the title \"prophet\" encompasses others than those who receive visions from God. A more modern definition of prophet is someone who spreads God's truths. These can be revealed in a number of ways, not only visions.\n\nSome Christian sects recognize the existence of a \"modern-day\" prophet. One such denomination is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), which teaches that God still communicates with mankind through prophecy.\n\nThe Quran identifies a number of men as \"Prophets of Islam\" ( \"nabī\"; pl. \"anbiyāʾ\"). Muslims believe such individuals were assigned a special mission by God to guide humanity. Besides Muhammad, this includes prophets such as Abraham (\"Ibrāhīm\"), Moses (\"Mūsā\") () and Jesus (\"ʿĪsā\").\nAlthough only twenty-five prophets are mentioned by name in the Qur'an, a hadith (no. 21257 in \"Musnad Ahmad ibn Hanbal\") mentions that there were (more or less) 124,000 prophets in total throughout history. Other traditions place the number of prophets at 224,000. Some scholars hold that there are an even greater number in the history of mankind, and only God knows. The Qur'an says that God has sent a prophet to every group of people throughout time, and that Muhammad is the last of the prophets, sent for the whole of humankind. The message of all the prophets is believed to be the same. In Islam, all prophetic messengers are prophets (such as Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad) though not all prophets are prophetic messengers. The primary distinction is that a prophet is required to demonstrate God's law through his actions, character, and behavior without necessarily calling people to follow him, while a prophetic messenger is required to pronounce God's law (i.e. revelation) and call his people to submit and follow him. Muhammad is distinguished from the rest of the prophetic messengers and prophets in that he was commissioned by God to be the prophetic messenger to all of mankind. Many of these prophets are also found in the texts of Judaism (The Torah, the Prophets, and the Writings) and Christianity.\n\nMuslims often refer to Muhammad as \"the Prophet\", in the form of a noun. Jesus is the result of a virgin birth in Islam as in Christianity, and is regarded as a prophet.\n\nTraditionally, four prophets are believed to have been sent holy books: the Torah (\"Tawrat\") to Moses, the Psalms (\"Zābūr\") to David, the Gospel to Jesus, and the Qur'an to Muhammad; those prophets are considered \"Messengers\" or \"rasūl\". Other main prophets are considered messengers or \"nabī\", even if they didn't receive a Book from God. Examples include the messenger-prophet Aaron| (\"Hārūn\"), the messenger-prophet Ishmael (\"Ismāʿīl\")) and the messenger-prophet Joseph (\"Yūsuf\").\n\nAlthough it offers many incidents from the lives of many prophets, the Qur'an focuses with special narrative and rhetorical emphasis on the careers of the first four of these five major prophets. Of all the figures before Muhammad, Moses is referred to most frequently in the Qur'an. As for the fifth, the Qur'an is frequently addressed directly to Muhammad, and it often discusses situations encountered by him. Direct use of his name in the text, however, is rare. Rarer still is the mention of Muhammad's contemporaries.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith refers to what are commonly called prophets as \"Manifestations of God\" who are directly linked with the concept of Progressive revelation. Bahá'ís believe that God expresses this will at all times and in many ways, including through a series of divine messengers referred to as \"Manifestations of God\" or \"divine educators\". In expressing God's intent, these Manifestations are seen to establish religion in the world. Thus they are seen as an intermediary between God and humanity.\n\nThe Manifestations of God are not seen as incarnations of God, and are also not seen as ordinary mortals. Instead, the Bahá'í concept of the Manifestation of God emphasizes simultaneously the humanity of that intermediary and the divinity in the way they show forth the will, knowledge and attributes of God; thus they have both human and divine stations.\n\nIn addition to the Manifestations of God, there are also minor prophets. While the Manifestations of God, or major prophets, are compared to the Sun (which produces its own heat and light), minor prophets are compared to the Moon (which receives its light from the sun). Moses, for example, is taught as having been a Manifestation of God and his brother Aaron a minor prophet. Moses spoke on behalf of God, and Aaron spoke on behalf of Moses (Exodus 4:14–17). Other Jewish prophets are considered minor prophets, as they are considered to have come in the shadow of the dispensation of Moses to develop and consolidate the process he set in motion.\n\nIn modern times the term \"prophet\" can be somewhat controversial. Many Christians with Pentecostal or charismatic beliefs believe in the continuation of the gift of prophecy and the continuation of the role of prophet as taught in Ephesians 4. The content of prophecies can vary widely. Prophecies are often spoken as quotes from God. They may contain quotes from scripture, statements about the past or current situation, or predictions of the future. Prophecies can also 'make manifest the secrets' of the hearts of other people, telling about the details of their lives. Sometimes, more than one person in a congregation will receive the same message in prophecy, with one giving it before another.\n\nOther movements claim to have prophets. In France, Michel Potay says he received a revelation, called \"The Revelation of Arès\", dictated by Jesus in 1974, then by God in 1977. He is considered a prophet by his followers, the Pilgrims of Arès.\n\nA number of modern catholic saints have been claimed to have powers of prophecy, such as Padre Pio and Alexandrina Maria da Costa.\n\nIn addition to this many modern Marian apparitions included prophecies in them about the world and about the local areas. The Fátima apparition in 1917 included a prophecy given by Mary to three children, that on October 13, 1917 there would be a great miracle for all to see at Fátima, Portugal, and on that day tens of thousands of people headed to Fátima to see what would happen including newspaper journalists. Many witnesses, including journalists, claimed to see the sun \"dance\" in the sky in the afternoon of that day, exactly as the visionaries had predicted several months before. The Kibeho apparition in Rwanda in the 1980s included many prophecies about great violence and destruction that was coming, and the Rwandan genocide only ten years later was interpreted by the visionaries as the fulfilment of these prophecies \n\nSeveral miracles and a vision of the identity of the last 112 Popes were attributed to Saint Malachy, the Archbishop of Armagh (1095–1148).\n\nJehovah's Witnesses do not consider any single person in their modern-day organization to be a prophet. Their literature has referred to their organization collectively as God's \"prophet\" on earth; this is understood, however, in the sense of declaring their interpretation of God's judgments from the Bible along with God's guidance of His Holy Spirit. Their publishing company, Watch Tower, and official position magazine, \"The Watchtower\", have asserted: \"Ever since \"The Watchtower\" began to be published in July 1879 it has looked ahead into the future... No, \"The Watchtower\" is no inspired prophet, but it follows and explains a Book of prophecy the predictions in which have proved to be unerring and unfailing till now. \"The Watchtower\" is therefore under safe guidance. It may be read with confidence, for its statements may be checked against that prophetic Book.\" They also claim that they are God's one and only true channel to mankind on earth, and used by God for this purpose.\n\nThey have made many eschatological forecasts, some of which have led people (including followers) to incorrect assumptions. One example is \"The Watchtower's\" assertions that the end of the \"Gentile times\" or \"times of the nations\" would occur in 1914; even prominent Watch Tower representatives such as A. H. Macmillan incorrectly concluded and overstated their expectations. As a result, \"The Watchtower\" has acknowledged that Jehovah's Witnesses \"have made mistakes in their understanding of what would occur at the end of certain time periods.\" Concurrently with these exceptions, Jehovah's Witnesses in their literature and assemblies have taught their leadership was personally chosen by Jesus Christ in 1919 (a prophetic year in Jehovah's Witnesses eschatology) and that they are \"God's sole channel on earth,\" and \"Jehovah's spirit directed organization\".\n\nJoseph Smith, who established the Church of Christ in 1830, is considered a prophet by members of the Latter Day Saint movement, of which The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is the largest denomination. Additionally, many churches within the movement believe in a succession of modern prophets (accepted by Latter Day Saints as \"prophets, seers, and revelators\") since the time of Joseph Smith. Russell M. Nelson is the current president and prophet of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nBaptist preacher William Miller is credited with beginning the mid-19th century North American religious movement now known as Adventism. He announced a Second Coming, resulting in the Great Disappointment.\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church, established in 1863, believes Ellen G. White, one of the church's founders, was given the spiritual gift of prophecy.\n\nThe Branch Davidians sect evolved from the Seventh-Day Adventists Church. David Koresh, who died in the well-known Waco Siege in 1993, in 1983 claimed to be their final prophet and \"the Son of God, the Lamb\".\n\n\nThe Ahmadiyya movement in Islam believes that Mirza Ghulam Ahmad was a non law-bearing Prophet, who claimed to be a fulfillment of the various Islamic prophecies regarding the spiritual second advent of Jesus of Nazareth near the end times.\n\nNathan of Gaza was a theologian and author who became famous as a prophet for the alleged messiah, Sabbatai Zevi.\n\nThe Hindu concept of rishis is similar to the concept of prophets. The Sanskrit word \"rishi\" is loosely translated into English as \"seer\" (a prophet, a man who can foresee the future). Hinduism recognizes and reveres thousands of rishis, who can be thought of as the collective founders of the Hindu religion over many millennia. Of these, special importance is given to the Saptarshi (the Seven Sages), widely regarded as patriarchs of the Hindu religion, whose listing is different according to different texts. The Saptarshi and their clans are believed to have composed the hymns of the four Vedas by entering into communion with the Supreme Cosmic Spirit through meditation. For instance, Rigveda 1.1 is attributed to Rishi Madhucchandā Vaishwāmitra (i.e. Madhucchandā of the clan of Vishwamitra). Most rishikās were male, but some were female too. Lopamudra is the author of one hymn in the Rigveda, and Gargi Vachaknavi is described in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad as a highly respected woman in the field of Brahmajñāna. Apart from the Vedas, various rishis are also credited with composing the several Smriti texts, like Veda Vyasa who composed the \"Mahābhārata\".\n\nDivination remains an important aspect of the lives of the people of contemporary Africa, especially amongst the usually rural, socially traditionalistic segments of its population. In arguably its most influential manifestation, the system of prophecy practiced by the Babalawos and Iyanifas of the historically Yoruba regions of West Africa have bequeathed to the world a corpus of fortune-telling poetic methodologies so intricate that they have been added by UNESCO to its official \"intangible cultural heritage of the World list\".\n\nTenrikyo's prophet, Nakayama Miki, is believed by Tenrikyoans to have been a messenger of God.\n\n\nNative American Great Peacemaker (Deganawidah) co-founded the Haudenosaunee league in pre-Columbian times. In retrospect, his prophecy of the boy seer could appear to refer to the conflict between natives and Europeans (white serpent).\n\nFrom 1805 until the Battle of Tippecanoe that falsified his predictions in 1811, the \"Shawnee prophet\" Tenskwatawa lead an Indian alliance to stop Europeans to take more and more land going west. He reported visions he had. He is said to have accurately predicted a solar eclipse. His brother Tecumseh re-established the alliance for Tecumseh's War, that ended with the latter's death in 1813. Tecumseh fought together with British forces that, in the area of the Great Lakes, occupied essentially today's territory of Canada.\n\nFrancis the Prophet, influenced by Tecumseh and Tenskwatawa, was a leader of the Red Stick faction of the Creek Indians. He traveled to England in 1815 as a representative of the \"four Indian nations\" in an unsuccessful attempt to get Great Britain to help them resist the expansionism of the white settlers.\n\n20 years later (1832), Wabokieshiek, the \"Winnebago Prophet\", after whom Prophetstown has been named, (also called \"White Cloud\") claimed that British forces would support the Indians in the Black Hawk War against the United States as 20 years earlier (based on \"visions\"). They did not, and no longer he was considered a \"prophet\".\n\nIn 1869, the Paiute Wodziwob founded the Ghost Dance movement. The dance rituals were an occasion to announce his visions of an earthquake that would swallow the whites. He seems to have died in 1872.\n\nThe Northern Paiute Wovoka claimed he had a vision during the solar eclipse of January 1, 1889, that the Paiute dead would come back and the whites would vanish from America, provided the natives performed Ghost Dances. This idea spread among other Native American peoples. The government were worried about a rebellion and sent troops, which lead to the death of Sitting Bull and to the Wounded Knee massacre in 1890.\n\nIn the late 20th century the appellation of \"prophet\" has been used to refer to individuals particularly successful at analysis in the field of economics, such as in the derogatory \"prophet of greed\". Alternatively, social commentators who suggest escalating crisis are often called \"prophets of doom.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2451103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2451103", "title": "Punjab insurgency", "text": "Punjab insurgency\n\nThe insurgency in Punjab originated in the late 1970s, was a threat to the unity and integrity of India due to the militant sikh ethno nationalism known as Khalistan movement. In the 1980s the movement had developed into a secessionist movement under the leadership of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. The Green revolution brought several socio-economic changes which along with factionalism of the politics in the Punjab state increased tension between a section of sikhs in Punjab with the union Government of India. Pakistani strategists then began supporting the militant dimension of the Khalistan movement.\n\nIn 1972 Punjab state elections, Congress won and Akali Dal was defeated. In 1973 Akali Dal put forward the Anandpur Sahib Resolution to demand more autonomy to Punjab. The Congress government considered the resolution a secessionist document and rejected it. Bhindranwale then joined the Akali Dal to launch the Dharam Yudh Morcha in 1982, to implement Anandpur Sahib resolution. Bhindranwale had risen to prominence in the Sikh political circle with his policy of getting the Anandpur Resolution passed, failing which he wanted to declare a separate country of Khalistan as a homeland for Sikhs.\n\nBhindranwale symbolized the revivalist, extremist and terrorist movement in the 1980s in Punjab. He is credited with the launching the Sikh militancy in Punjab, with training and support from the spy agency ISI of Pakistan. Under Bhindranwale, the number of people initiating into the Khalsa increased. He also increased the level of rhetoric on the perceived \"assault\" on Sikh values from the Hindu community. Bhindranwale and his followers started carrying firearms at all times. In 1983, to escape arrest, he along with his militant cadre occupied and fortified the sikh shrine Akal Takht. He made the Sikh religious building his headquarters and led the terrorist campaign in Punjab.\n\nOn 1 June Operation Blue Star was launched to remove him and the armed militants from the Golden Temple complex. On 6 June Bhindranwale died in the operation. The operation carried out in the temple caused outrage among the Sikhs and increased the support for Khalistan Movement. Four months after the operation, on 31 October 1984, Indira Gandhi was assassinated in vengeance by her two Sikh bodyguards, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh. Public outcry over Gandhi's death led to the killings of Sikhs in the ensuing 1984 anti-Sikh riots. These events played a major role in the violence by Sikh militant groups supported by Pakistan and consumed Punjab till the early 1990s when the Khalistan movement eventually died.\n\nThe extremist violence had started with targeting of the Nirankaris and followed by attack on the government machinery and the Hindus. Ultimately the Sikh terrorists also targeted other Sikhs with opposing viewpoints. This led to further loss of public support and the militants were eventually brought under control of law enforcement agencies by 1993.\n\nIn the 1950s there was a demand for linguistic reorganisation of the state of Punjab, which the government finally agreed in 1955 after protests and recommendation of the States Reorganisation commission. The state of Punjab was later split into the states of Himachal Pradesh, the new state Haryana and current day Punjab.\n\nWhile the Green Revolution in Punjab had several positive impacts, the introduction of the mechanised agricultural techniques led to uneven distribution of wealth. The industrial development was not done at the same pace of agricultural development, the Indian government had been reluctant to set up heavy industries in Punjab due to its status as a high-risk border state with Pakistan. The rapid increase in the higher education opportunities without adequate rise in the jobs resulted in the increase in the unemployment of educated youth. The resulting unemployed rural Sikh youth were drawn to the militant groups, and formed the backbone of the militancy.\n\nAfter being routed in 1972 Punjab election, the Akali Dal put forward the Anandpur Sahib Resolution resolution in 1973 to demand more autonomy to Punjab. The resolution included both religious and political issues. It asked for recognising Sikhism as a religion separate from Hinduism. It also demanded that power be generally devoluted from the Central to state governments. The Anandpur Resolution was rejected by the government as a secessionist document. Bhindranwale then joined the Akali Dal to launch the Dharam Yudh Morcha in 1982, to implement Anandpur Sahib resolution. Thousands of people joined the movement, feeling that it represented a real solution to demands such as a larger share of water for irrigation and the return of Chandigarh to Punjab. \n\nBhindranwale had risen to prominence in the Sikh political circle with his policy of getting the Anandpur Resolution passed, failing which he wanted to declare a separate country of Khalistan as a homeland for Sikhs. Indira Gandhi, the leader of the Akali Dal's rival Congress, considered the Anandpur Sahib Resolution as a secessionist document. The Government was of the view that passing of the resolution would have allowed India to be divided, making a Khalistan.\n\nAttempts were made by the then Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi to prop up Bhindranwale to undermine the Akali Dal, a sikh religious political party. On 13 April 1978, the day to celebrate the birth of Khalsa, a peaceful Sant Nirankari convention was organized in Amritsar, with permission from the Akali state government. The practices of \"Sant Nirankaris\" sect of Nirankaris was considered as heretics by the orthodox Sikhism expounded by Bhindranwale. From Golden Temple premises, A procession of about two hundred Sikhs led by Bhindranwale and Fauja Singh of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha left the Golden Temple, heading towards the Nirankari Convention. In the ensuing violence seventeen people were killed. A criminal case was filed and accused were acquitted on self defence. The Punjab government Chief Minister Prakash Singh Badal decided not to appeal the decision. \n\nBhindranwale increased his rhetoric against the enemies of Sikhs. A letter of authority was issued by Akal Takht to ostracize the Sant Nirankaris. A sentiment was created to justify extra judicial killings of the perceived enemies of Sikhism. The chief proponents of this attitude were the Babbar Khalsa founded by the widow, Bibi Amarjit Kaur of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha, whose husband Fauja Singh had been at the head of the march in Amritsar; the Damdami Taksal led by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale who had also been in Amritsar on the day of the outrage; the Dal Khalsa, formed with the object of demanding a sovereign Sikh state; and the All India Sikh Students Federation, which was banned by the government. \n\nIn the subsequent years following this event, several murders took place in Punjab and the surrounding areas allegedly by Bhindranwale's group and the new Babbar Khalsa. The Babbar Khalsa activists took up residence in the Golden Temple, where they would retreat to, after committing \"acts of punishment\" on people against the orthodox Sikh tenets. Police did not entered the temple complex to avoid hurting the sentiments of Sikhs. On 24 April 1980, The Nirankari head, Gurbachan was murdered. Bhindranwale took residence in Golden Temple to escape arrest when he was accused of the assassination of Nirankari Gurbachan Singh. Three years later, a member of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha, Ranjit Singh, surrendered and admitted to the assassination.\n\nIn 1964, Pakistani state owned radio station began airing separatist propaganda targeted for Sikhs in Punjab, which continued during the Indo-Pak war of 1965. Pakistan had been helping the Sikh secessionist movement since the 1970s. The Pakistani prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto had politically supported the idea of Khalistan wherever possible. Under Zia ul Haq, this suport became even more prominent. The motive for supporting Khalistan was the revenge for India's role in splitting of Pakistan in 1971 and to discredit India's global status by splitting a Sikh state to vindicate Jinnah's Two-nation theory. Zia had seen this as an opportunity to weaken and distract India in another war of insurgency following the Pakistani military doctrine to \"Bleed India with a Thousand Cuts\". Hamid Gul (who had led ISI) had stated about Punjab insurgency that \"Keeping Punjab destabilized is equivalent to the Pakistan Army having an extra division at no cost to the taxpayers.\" \n\nSince the early 1980s, for the fulfillment of these motives, the spy agency Inter-Service-Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan became involved with the Khalistan movement. ISI created a special Punjab cell in its headquarter to support the militant Sikh followers of Bhindranwale and supply them with arms and ammunitions. Terrorist training camps were set up in Pakistan at Lahore and Karachi to train the young Sikhs. ISI deployed its Field Intelligence Units (FIU) on the Indo-Pak Border. The Bhindranwale Tiger Force, the Khalistan Commando Force, the Khalistan Liberation Force and the Babbar Khalsa were the major insurgent groups that were provided support.\n\nA three phase plan was followed by the Punjab cell of ISI.\nThe ISI had also included the Panthic Committee in India as an additional partner. The five membered Panthic Committee was elected from among the religious leaders of the Panth, and acted as the upholders of the Sikh religion. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, which served as the custodians of all Sikh Shrines was also appealed by ISI. SGPC was established through the Gurdwara Act of 1925 and had substantial financial resources. Both these Sikh committee had major political influence over Punjab and New Delhi.\n\nSikhs in Pakistan were a small minority and the Panthic Committee in Pakistan assisted the propaganda campaign of ISI in its propaganda and psychological warfare. The Sikh community in the country and abroad were its target. Panthic Committee instigated Sikhs by delivering religious speeches and revealing incidents of torture to the Sikhs. Sikhs were instigated to take up arms against the Indian Government \"in the name of a hypothetical autonomous Sikh nation\".\n\nISI used Pakistani Sikhs as partners for its operation in the Indian Punjab. The terrorist training program was spread over and the Sikh gurdwaras on both sides of International border were used as place for residence and armoury for storing weapons and ammunitions. \n\nThe direct impact of these activities was felt during the Operation Blue Star where the Sikh insurgents fighting against the army were found to be well trained in warfare and had enough supply of ammunitions. After the Operation Blue Star several modern weapons found inside the temple complex with the Pakistan or Chinese markings on them. \n\nPakistan has been deeply involved in the training, guiding and arming Sikh militants. Wadhawa Singh, Chief Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), Lakhbir Singh Rode, Chief, International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), Paramjit Singh Panjwar, Chief, Khalistan Commando Force (KCF), Gajinder Singh, Chief, Dal Khalsa International (DKI) and Ranjit Singh Neeta, Chief, Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) permanently based in Pakistan, have been coordinating militant activities of their outfits in Punjab and elsewhere in India under the guidance of Pak ISI. Pak ISI agents regularly escort Sikh militants for trans-border movement and provide safe havens for their shelter and dumps for weapons and explosives. \n\nInterrogation reports of Sikh militants arrested in India gave details of the training of Sikh youth in Pakistan including arms training in the use of rifle, sniper rifle, light machine gun, grenade, automatic weapons, chemical weapons, demolition of buildings and bridges, sabotage and causing explosions using gunpowder by the Pak-based Sikh militant leaders and Pakistani army officers. A dozen terrorist training camps had been set up in Pakistan along the International border. These camps housed 1500 to 2000 sikh militants who were imparted guerilla warfare training. These reports also suggest plans of Pak ISI through Pak based terrorists to cause explosions in big cities like Amritsar, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Delhi and targeting of VVIPs.\n\nA section of Sikhs turned to militancy in Punjab; some Sikh militant groups aimed to create an independent state called Khalistan through acts of violence directed at members of the Indian government, army or forces. Others demanded an autonomous state within India, based on the Anandpur Sahib Resolution. A large numbers of Sikhs condemned the actions of the militants.\n\nAnthropological studies have identified fun, excitement and expressions of masculinity, as explanations for the young men to join militants and other religious nationalist groups. Puri et al state that undereducated and illiterate young men, and with few job prospects had joined pro-Khalistan militant groups with “fun” as one of the primary reasons. It mentioned that the pursuit of Khalistan was the motivation for only 5% of “militants”. The terrorists captured by the Indian Police had indicated a dominant criminal profile amongst them. Many terrorists were hard core criminals involved in major criminal cases before joining terrorism. Among the arrested terrorists were Harjinder Singh Jinda, who was a convicted bank robber and had escaped from prison, Devinder Singh Bai, a suspect in murder case and was Bhindranwale's close associate, and two drug smugglers, Upkar Singh and Bakshish Singh.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch in the beginning on the 1980s, Sikh separatists in Punjab attacked non-Sikhs in the state. In October 1983, Sikh militants stopped a bus and shot six Hindu passengers. On the same day, in an another location a group of militants killed two officials during an attack on a train. Trains were attacked and people were shot after being pulled from buses.\n\nThe Congress(I)-led Central Government dismissed its own Punjab's government, declaring a state of emergency, and imposed the President's Rule in the state. During the five months preceding Operation Blue Star, from 1 January 1984 to 3 June 1984, 298 people had been killed in various violent incidents across Punjab. In five days preceding the Operation, 48 people had been killed in the violence.\n\nOperation Bluestar was an Indian military operation carried out between 1 and 8 June 1984, ordered by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to remove militant religious leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and his armed followers from the buildings of the Harmandir Sahib complex in Amritsar, Punjab. In July 1983, the Sikh political party Akali Dal's President Harcharan Singh Longowal had invited Bhindranwale to take up residence in Golden Temple Complex. Bhindranwale later on made the sacred temple complex an armoury and headquarter, for his armed uprising for Khalistan. In the violent events leading up to the Operation Blue Star since the inception of Akali Dharm Yudh Morcha, the militants had killed 165 Hindus and Nirankaris, even 39 Sikhs opposed to Bhindranwale were killed. The total number of deaths was 410 in violent incidents and riots while 1,180 people were injured. \n\nCounter Intelligence reports of the Indian agencies had reported that three prominent heads of the Khalistan movement Shabeg Singh, Balbier Singh and Amrik Singh had made at least six trips each to Pakistan between the years 1981 and 1983. Intelligence Bureau reported that weapons training was being provided at gurdwaras in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Soviet intelligence agency KGB reportedly tipped off the Indian agency RAW about the CIA and ISI working together on a Plan for Punjab with a code name \"Gibraltar\". RAW from its interrogation of a Pakistani Army officer received information that over a thousand trained Special Service Group commandos of the Pakistan Army had been dispatched by Pakistan into the Indian Punjab to assist Bhindranwale in his fight against the government. Large number of Pakistani agents also took the smuggling routes in the Kashmir and Kutch region of Gujarat, with plans to sabotage.\n\nOn 1 June 1984 Indira Gandhi ordered the army to launch the Operation Blue Star. A variety of army units along with paramilitary forces surrounded the temple complex on 3 June 1984. The army used the public address systems and loudspeakers to encourage the militants to surrender. Requests were also made to the militants to allow the trapped pilgrims to come out of the temple premises, before the clash with the army. However no surrender or release of pilgrims happened till 7 PM on 5th June. The fighting started on 5 June with skirmishes and the battle went on for three days ending on 8 June. A clean-up operation codenamed as Operation Woodrose was also initiated throughout Punjab. \n\nThe army had grossly underestimated the firepower possessed by the militants. Militants had Chinese made rocket-propelled grenade launchers with armour piercing capabilities. Tanks and heavy artillery were used to attack the militants using anti-tank and machine-gun fire from the heavily fortified Akal Takht. After a 24-hour firefight, the army finally wrested control of the temple complex. Casualty figures for the Army were 83 dead and 249 injured. According to the official estimate presented by the Indian government, 1592 were apprehended and there were 493 combined militant and civilian casualties. High civilian casualties were attributed to militants using pilgrims trapped inside the temple as human shields.\n\nThe Operation Bluestar was criticized by many Sikhs bodies, who interpreted the military action as an assault on Sikh religion. Four months after the operation, on 31 October 1984, Indira Gandhi was assassinated in vengeance by her two Sikh bodyguards, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh. \n\nPublic outcry over Gandhi's death led to the killings of more than 3,000 Sikhs in the ensuing 1984 anti-Sikh riots. In the aftermath of the riots, the government reported that 20,000 had fled the city; the People's Union for Civil Liberties reported \"at least\" 1,000 displaced persons. The most-affected regions were the Sikh neighbourhoods of Delhi. Human rights organisations and newspapers across India believed that the massacre was organised. The collusion of political officials in the violence and judicial failure to penalise the perpetrators alienated Sikhs and increased support for the Khalistan movement.<ref name=\"Watch/Asia(US)1994\"></ref>\n\nThe Operation Blue Star and Anti-Sikh riots across Northern India were crucial events in evolution of the Khalistan movement. The extremist groups grew in numbers and strength. The financial funding from the Sikh diaspora sharply increased and the Sikhs in US, UK and Canada donated thousands of dollars every week for the insurgency. Manbir Singh Chaheru the chief of sikh militant group Khalistan Commando Force admitted that he had received more than 60,000$ from Sikh organisations operating in Canada and Britain. One of the militant stated, \"All we have to do is commit a violent act and the money for our cause increased drastically.\" Indira Gandhi's son and political successor, Rajiv Gandhi, tried unsuccessfully to bring peace to Punjab.\n\nThe opportunity that the government had after 1984 was lost and by March 1986, the Golden temple was back in control of extremist Sikh organisation Damdami Taksal. By 1985, the situation in Punjab had become highly volatile. In December 1986, a bus was attacked by Sikh militants in which 24 Hindus were shot dead and 7 were injured and shot near Khuda in the Hoshiarpur district of Punjab.\n\nBy providing military support and modern sophisticated weapons to the Sikh extremists, the Pakistani ISI caused a large number of casualties in Punjab. AK-47 provided by ISI was primarily used by the militants as an ideal weapon in their guerilla warfare, based on its superior performance in comparison to other weapons. While the Indian policemen fighting the militants had .303 Lee–Enfield rifles that were popular in the World war II and only a few of them had 7.62 1A self loading rifles. These weapons were outmatched by automatic AK-47s. Modern explosive arms were also supplied by the ISI. According to KPS Gill the terrorists mainly used crude bombs but since 1990s more modern explosives supplied by Pakistan had become widespread in usage among them. The number of casualties also increased with more explosives usage by the terrorists.\n\nA terrorist from Babbar Khalsa who had been arrested in early 1990s had informed Indian authorities about Pakistani ISI plans to use aeroplanes for Kamikaze attacks on Indian installations. The Sikhs however refused to participate in such operations on religious grounds as Sikhism prohibits suicide assassinations. Between 1981 and 1984 the Sikh terrorists had undertaken several aircraft hijackings. In a hijacking in 1984 a German manufactured pistol was used and during the investigations, the German Intelligence Service BND confirmed that the weapon was part of a weapon consignment for Pakistani government. The American government had then issued warnings over the incident after which the series of hijackings of Indian aeroplanes had stopped.\n\nBetween 1987 and 1991, Punjab was placed under an ineffective President's rule and was governed from Delhi. Elections were eventually held in 1992 but the voter turnout was poor. A new Congress(I) government was formed and it gave the police chief of the state K.P.S. Gill a free hand.\n\nThe extremist violence had started with targeting of the Nirankaris and followed by attack on the government machinery and the Hindus. Ultimately the Sikh terrorists also targeted other Sikhs with opposing viewpoints. This led to further loss of public support and the militants were eventually brought under control of law enforcement agencies by 1993.\nSince 1993, the Punjab insurgency has petered out, with a last major incident the Assassination of Chief Minister Beant Singh occurring in 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "88513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88513", "title": "Rainmaking (ritual)", "text": "Rainmaking (ritual)\n\nRainmaking is a weather modification ritual that attempts to invoke rain.\n\nAmong the best known examples of weather modification rituals are North American rain dances, historically performed by many Native American tribes, particularly in the Southwestern United States. Some of these weather modification rituals are still implemented today.\n\nJulia M. Buttree (the wife of Ernest Thompson Seton) describes the rain dance of the Zuni, along with other Native American dances, in her book \"The Rhythm of the Redman\". Feathers and turquoise, or other blue items, are worn during the ceremony to symbolize wind and rain respectively. Details on how best to perform the Rain Dance have been passed down by oral tradition. In an early sort of meteorology, Native Americans in the midwestern parts of the modern United States often tracked and followed known weather patterns while offering to perform a rain dance for settlers in return for trade items. This is best documented among the Osage and Quapaw Indian tribes of Missouri and Arkansas.\n\nRain is a central concern of African societies which depend on it for their sustenance and that of their animals. The power to make rain is a usual attribute of African kings. In a number of African societies kings who failed to produce the expected rain ran the risk of being blamed as a scapegoat and killed by their people.\n\nTribal rain dances are done to ensure rain comes. Notable people known to have done rain dances are tribes on the Sahara Desert and Ethiopia.\n\nWu Shamans in ancient China performed sacrificial rain dance ceremonies in times of drought. Wu anciently served as intermediaries with nature spirits believed to control rainfall and flooding.\n\"Shamans had to carry out an exhausting dance within a ring of fire until, sweating profusely, the falling drops of perspirations produced the desired rain.\"\n\nRain is important for agriculturists, since they want water for growing plants. When the rain doesn't fall in a season, people use traditional means of making rain to solve the problem of the lack of rainfall. In Thailand, there is a tradition called the \"Cat Parade\".\n\nThe \"Cat Parade\" is a ritual of Thai farmers in both the central and eastern parts of the country. It is performed when close to the rainy season, if the rain hasn't come. Farmers will often join the \"Cat Parade\". The ancients believed that the cat is an animal which is afraid of rain and water. If it rained, the cat would cry. The ancients considered that if the cat cries it means that rain is going to fall. Some people believe that the cat represents drought. If the cat is wet, the drought will be driven away. Others believed that the cat has the power to make rain.\n\nTo perform a \"Cat Parade\", you must bring a female cat that has grey or black fur. The cats are then to be placed in baskets; only one cat should be put in a basket. You must then walk around in the village. When the \"Cat Parade\" goes through someone's house, that person needs to splash water on the cats. It is believed that rain would then fall after three to seven days.\n\n\"Caloian\", \"Dodola\" and \"Perperuna\" / \"Paparuda\", among other terms, refer to a family of Slavic and Romanian rainmaking rituals, some of which survived into the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "29812984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29812984", "title": "Religion in the Mongol Empire", "text": "Religion in the Mongol Empire\n\nThe Mongols were highly tolerant of most religions during the early Mongol Empire, and typically sponsored several at the same time. At the time of Genghis Khan in the 13th century, virtually every religion had found converts, from Buddhism to Eastern Christianity and Manichaeanism to Islam. To avoid strife, Genghis Khan set up an institution that ensured complete religious freedom, though he himself was a Shamanist. Under his administration, all religious leaders were exempt from taxation, and from public service. Mongol emperors were known for organizing competitions of religious debates among clerics, and these would draw large audiences.\n\nInitially, there were few normal places of worship, because of the nomadic lifestyle. However, under Genghis's successor Ögedei, several building projects were undertaken in the Mongol capital of Karakorum. Along with palaces, Ogedei built houses of worship for the Buddhist, Muslim, Christian, and Taoist followers. The dominant religions at that time were Shamanism, Tengriism and Buddhism, although Ogodei's wife was a Christian. In later years of the empire, three of the four principal khanates embraced Islam, as Islam was favored over other religions. The Yuan dynasty mainly adopted Tibetan Buddhism while there were other religions practiced in the east of the Mongol Empire.\n\nShamanism, which practices a form of animism with several meanings and with different characters, was a popular religion in ancient Central Asia and Siberia. The central act in the relationship between human and nature was the worship of the Blue Mighty Eternal Heaven - \"Blue Sky\" (Хөх тэнгэр, Эрхэт мөнх тэнгэр). Chingis Khan showed his spiritual power was greater than others and himself to be a connector to heaven after the execution of rival shaman Teb Tengri Kokhchu.\n\nUnder the Mongol Empire the khans such as Batu, Duwa, Kebek and Tokhta kept a whole college of male shamans. Those shamans were divided into bikes and others. The bikes camped in front of the Great Khan's palace and other shamans behind it. In spite of astrological observations and regular calendar ceremonies, Mongol shamans led armies and performed weather magic. Shamans played a powerful political role behind the Mongol court.\n\nWhile Ghazan converted to Islam, he still practiced some elements of Mongol shamanism. The Yassa code remained in place and Mongol shamans were allowed to remain in the Ilkhanate empire and remained politically influential throughout his reign as well as Oljeitu's. However, ancient Mongol shamanistic traditions went into decline with the demise of Oljeitu and with the rise of rulers practicing a purified form of Islam. With Islamization, the shamans were no longer important as they had been in Golden Horde and Ilkhanate. But they still performed in ritual ceremonies alongside the Nestors and Buddhist monks in Yuan Dynasty.\n\nBuddhists entered the service of the Mongol Empire in the early 13th century. Buddhist monasteries established in the Karakorum were granted tax-exempt status, though the religion was not given official status by the Mongols until later. All variants of Buddhism, such as Chinese, Tibetan and Indian Buddhism flourished, though Tibetan Buddhism was eventually favored at the imperial level under emperor Möngke, who appointed Namo from Kashmir as chief of all Buddhist monks.\n\nOgedei's son and Guyuk's younger brother, Khotan, became the governor of Ningxia and Gansu. He launched a military campaign into Tibet under the command of Generals Lichi and Door ha, and the marauding Mongols burned down Tibetan monuments such as the Reting monastery and the Gyal temple in 1240. Prince Kötön was convinced that no power in the world exceeded the might of the Mongols. However, he also believed that religion was necessary for the interests of the next life. Thus he invited Sakya Pandita to his ordo. Prince Kötön was impressed and healed by Sakya Pandita's teachings and knowledge, and later became the first known Buddhist prince of the Mongol Empire.\n\nKublai Khan, the founder of Yuan dynasty, also favored Buddhism. As early as the 1240s, he made contacts with a Chan Buddhist monk Haiyun, who became his Buddhist adviser. Kublai's second son, whom he later officially designated as his successor in the Yuan dynasty, was given a Chinese name \"Zhenjin\" (literally, \"True Gold\") by Haiyan. Khatun Chibi influenced Kublai to be converted to Buddhism, as she had received the Hévajra tantra initiations from Phagpa and been impressed. Kublai appointed Phagspa his Imperial Preceptor (initially \"State Preceptor\"), giving him power over all the Buddhist monks within the territory of the Yuan dynasty. For the rest of the Yuan dynasty in Mongolia and China, until the Mongols were overthrown in 1368, Tibetan lamas were the most influential Buddhist clergy. Via the Tibetan clergy, Indian Buddhist textual tradition strongly influenced the religious life in the Empire.\n\nSome of the Ilkhans in Iran held Pagano grub-pa order as their appanage in Tibet and lavishly patronized a variety of Indian, Tibetan and Chinese Buddhist monks. But in 1295, Ghazan persecuted Buddhists and destroyed their temples. Before his conversion to Islam though, he had built a Buddhist temple in Khorasan. The 14th-century Buddhist scriptures found at archaeological sites related to Chagatai Khanate show the popularity of Buddhism among the Mongols and the Uighurs. Tokhta of Golden Horde also encouraged lamas to settle in Russia But his policy was halted by his successor Ozbeg Khan, a Muslim.\n\nSome Mongols had been evangelized by Christian Nestorians since about the 7th Century, and a few Mongols were converted to Catholicism, esp. by John of Montecorvino who was appointed by the Papal states of Europe.\n\nThe religion never achieved a great position in the Mongol Empire, but many Great Khans and lesser leaders were raised by Christian mothers and educated by Christian tutors. Some of the major Christian figures among the Mongols were: Sorghaghtani Beki, daughter in law of Genghis Khan, and mother of the Great Khans Möngke, Kublai, Hulagu and Ariq Boke; Sartaq, khan of Golden Horde; Doquz Khatun, the mother of the ruler Abaqa; Nayan, a descendant of one of Genghis Khan's brothers, who raised a rebellion against Kublai in Manchuria; Kitbuqa, general of Mongol forces in the Levant, who fought in alliance with Christians. Marital alliances with Western powers also occurred, as in the 1265 marriage of Maria Palaiologina, daughter of Emperor Michael VIII Palaeologus, with Abaqa. Tokhta, Oljeitu and Ozbeg had Greek Khatun as well. The Mongol Empire contained the lands of the Eastern Orthodox Church in Caucasus and Russia, the Apostolic church in Armenia and the Assyrian Church of Nestorians in Central Asia and Persia.\n\nThe 13th century saw attempts at a Franco-Mongol alliance with the exchange of ambassadors and even military collaboration with European Christians in the Holy Land. Ilkhan Abacha sent a tumen to support crusaders during the Ninth Crusade in 1271. The Nestorian Mongol Rabban Bar Sauma visited some European courts in 1287-1288. At the same time, however, Islam began to take firm root amongst the Mongols, as those who embraced Christianity such as Tekuder, became Muslim. After Ongud Mar Yahbh-Allaha, the monk of Kublai Khan, was elected a catholicos of the eastern Christian church in 1281, Catholic missionaries were begun to be sent to all Mongol capitals.\n\nThe Ilkhanate, Golden Horde, and the Chagatai Khanate - three of the four principal khanates (except for the Yuan dynasty) - embraced Islam, as the Mongol elite favored Islam to strengthen their rule over the Muslim majority populace. Non-Muslim Mongols also employed many Muslims in various fields and increasingly took their advice in administrative affairs. For example, Genghis Khan's advisor, Mahmud Yalavach, and Kublai Khan's financial minister, Ahmad Fanakati, were Muslims. Still, the mainlands of the Mongols remained staunchly Buddhist and Shamans.\n\nAs they were well educated and knew Turkish and Mongolian, Muslims became a favored class of officials with notable Mongol converts to Islam including Mubarak Shah and Tarmashirin of the Chagatai Khanate, Tuda Mengu and Negudar of the Golden Horde, Ghazan and Öljaitü of the Ilkhanate. Berke, who ruled Golden Horde from 1257 to 1266, was the first Muslim leader of any Mongol khanates.\nGhazan was the first Muslim khan to adopt Islam as the national religion of Ilkhanate, followed by Uzbek of the Golden Horde who urged his subjects to accept the religion as well. Ghazan continued his non-Muslim forefathers' approach toward religious tolerance. When Ghazan learned that some Buddhist monks feigned conversion to Islam due to the earlier destruction of some of their temples, he granted permission to all who wished to return to Tibet where they could freely follow their faith and be among other Buddhists.\n\nThough in Chagatai Khanate, Buddhism and Shamanism flourished until the 1350s. When the western part of the khanate embraced Islam quickly, the eastern part or Moghulistan slowed Islamization until Tughlugh Timur (1329/30-1363) who accepted Islam with his thousands of subjects.\n\nThe Yuan dynasty, unlike the western khanates, never converted to Islam. The other three Khanates accepted the suzerainty of Yuan dynasty but gradually that withered away. There had been many Muslim residing in Yuan dynasty territory since Kublai Khan and his successors were tolerant of other religions. Nevertheless, Buddhism was the most influential religion within its territory. Contact between Yuan emperors in China and states in North Africa, India, and the Middle East lasted until the mid-14th century. Foreigners like Uyghur Buddhists from Cochon, Nestorian Christian Keraits, Naimans, On guns, Jews, and Central Asian Muslims were classified as Semuren, \"various sorts\", below the Mongols but above the Chinese.\n\nAt the same time the Mongols imported Central Asian Muslims to serve as administrators in China, the Mongols also sent Han Chinese and Khitans from China to serve as administrators over the Muslim population in Bukhara in Central Asia, using foreigners to curtail the power of the local peoples of both lands.\n\nGenghis Khan and the following Yuan Emperors forbade Islamic practices like Halal butchering, forcing Mongol methods of butchering animals on Muslims, and other restrictive degrees continued. Muslims had to slaughter sheep in secret. Genghis Khan directly called Muslims and Jews \"slaves\", and demanded that they follow the Mongol method of eating rather than the halal method. Circumcision was also forbidden. Jews were also affected, and forbidden by the Mongols to eat Kosher.\nAmong all the [subject] alien peoples only the Hui-hui say “we do not eat Mongol food”. [Cinggis Qa’an replied:] “By the aid of heaven we have pacified you; you are our slaves. Yet you do not eat our food or drink. How can this be right?” He thereupon made them eat. “If you slaughter sheep, you will be considered guilty of a crime.” He issued a regulation to that effect ... [In 1279/1280 under Qubilai] all the Muslims say: “if someone else slaughters [the animal] we do not eat”. Because the poor people are upset by this, from now on, Muscleman [Muslim] Huihui and Zhuhai [Jewish] Huihui, no matter who kills [the animal] will eat [it] and must cease slaughtering sheep themselves, and cease the rite of circumcision.\nThe Muslims in the same class also revolted against the Yuan dynasty in the Ispah Rebellion but the rebellion was crushed and the Muslims were massacred by the Yuan loyalist commander Chen Youding. Some Muslim communities had the name in Chinese which meant \"barracks\" and also mean \"thanks\", many Hui Muslims claim it is because that they played an important role in overthrowing the Mongols and it was named in thanks by the Han Chinese for assisting them.\n\nDuring the Ming conquest of Yunnan, Muslim Generals Mu Ying and Lan Yu, led Muslim troops loyal to the Ming dynasty against Mongol and Muslim troops loyal to the Yuan dynasty.\n\nAs Genghis Khan united the Mongol tribes and waged war on most of Asia he became known as one of the most ruthless and brutal warlords of all time. However, one hallmark during his military conquest was his tolerance of all religions. He embraced diversity and decreed religious freedom for everyone. Genghis Khan’s tolerance proved to be beneficial for him. Genghis continued to use religious persecution to his benefit. He would use suppressed people as spies in cities such as Baghdad and then take the land assimilate all those willing. In her book Day of Empire, Amy Chua claims that “the Mongols were more religiously open than any other power in the world.” \n\nAfter a failed assassination attempt on Genghis Khan, 100 of his men fled and nearly starved to death. While on the run these men swore allegiance to one another and remarkably these men included Buddhists, Christians, Muslims, and animists who worshiped the Eternal Blue Sky and the God Mountain of Burkhan Khaldun.\n\nWhen Muslim envoys came from central Asia to seek Genghis Khan’s protection from the religious persecution they faced under their Christian khan Guchlug, Genghis Khan was happy to help. He led a campaign into Balasagun and killed Guchlug and declared religious freedom in his lands. This earned Genghis Khan the title as \"defender of religions\" and it was even said he was \"one of the mercies of the Lord and one of the bounties of his divine grace.\"\n\nThe Mongols passion for religious tolerance appealed to writers of the eighteenth century. \"The Catholic inquisitors of Europe,\" wrote Edward Gibbon in a celebrated passage, \"who defended nonsense by cruelty, might have been confounded by the example of a barbarian, who anticipated the lessons of philosophy and established by his laws a system of pure theism and perfect toleration.\" He goes on to add, in a footnote, \"a singular conformity may be found between the religious laws of Zingis Khan and of Mr. Locke.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13790126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13790126", "title": "Royal Australian Army Chaplains' Department", "text": "Royal Australian Army Chaplains' Department\n\nThe Royal Australian Army Chaplains' Department is an all-officer Corps within the Australian Army that provides ordained clergy to minister to the personnel of the Australian Army. As of 2012, there are 67 serving regular chaplains (commonly known as \"padres\") in the Australian Army; these belong to either one of several Christian churches, or to the Jewish faith. There are also 83 chaplains in the Australian Army Reserve.\n\nPrior to December 1948 the corps was titled the Australian Army Chaplains' Department.\n\nThe Australian Army Chaplains' Department has two cap badges, for its Christian and Jewish officers. Army chaplains, although they are all commissioned officers of the Australian Army and wear uniform, do not carry arms (and are the only officers not to carry swords on parade). At services on formal occasions, chaplains wear their medals and decorations on their clerical robes.\n\nIn November 2015, media reported a change to the Australian Army’s Chaplaincy badge, which is officially known as the Royal Australian Army Chaplains Department badge. This reporting is misleading. A change to the Australian Army Chaplaincy badge is not a matter the Chief of Army is currently considering.\n\nChaplains in the Australian Army begin their commission as a Captain. There are five levels or \"divisions\" for the seniority of chaplains in the Australian Army and Air Force with each division corresponding to a worn rank.\n\nThe highest \"division\" is Division 5 who are \"Principal Chaplains,\" of which there are three per service representing the three major Christian denominations—Catholic, Anglican, and Protestant—and the Jewish faith. The Principal Chaplains of the Army wear the rank of Brigadier.\n\nHeads of Denominations:\nIn the Australian Defence Force (ADF), the heads of military chaplaincy for those Christian denominations and of the Jewish faith that have an official association with the ADF, are also members of the ADF's \"Religious Advisory Committee to the Services\" (RACS). With respect to the Catholic and Anglican churches, their Bishops are members of RACS and they and the other members of RACS have the status of a two-star General (US) or Major General (Australian Army). The current chairman of the RACS is Rev Prof Allan Harman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8456069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8456069", "title": "Rübezahl", "text": "Rübezahl\n\nGuardian Rübezahl (; ) is a folklore mountain spirit (woodwose) of the \"Krkonoše Mountains\" (\"Giant Mountains\", \"Riesengebirge\", \"Karkonosze\"), a mountain range along the border between the historical lands of Bohemia and Silesia. He is the subject of many legends and fairy tales in German, Polish, and Czech folklore.\n\nThe origin of the name is not clear. One interpretation is from the story \"How Rübezahl Got his Name,\" by Johann Karl August Musäus, which recounts how Rübezahl abducted a princess who liked turnips (). The princess gets very lonely there in the mountains. To keep her company, Rübezahl turns the turnips into her friends and acquaintances. As the turnips wilt after a little while, so do the persons that were created by Rübezahl's magic. The princess asks him to count (\"zählen\") the turnips in the field. While he counted, she escaped.\n\nAnother proposed etymology is \"Riebezagel\", from a combination of the personal name \"Riebe\" and the Middle High German \"zagel\", meaning \"tail\", from his pictorial representation as a tailed demon. According to the etymologist Friedrich Kluge, the name is a contraction of Middle High German \"Ruobezagel\", ‘turnip-tail’.\n\nRübezahl is a name of ridicule, the use of which provokes his anger. The respectful name is \"Lord of the Mountains\" or \"Lord John\". The Czech name, \"Krakonoš\", is simply derived from the name of the mountains. The Polish name, \"Liczyrzepa\" is a direct translation of the German name, introduced by Stanisław Bełza in 1898. It only became widespread in Poland after 1945, when Józef Sykulski started to translate tales of Rübezahl from German into Polish. In one Silesian folktale, he is called \"Prince of the Gnomes\". 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica gives him the moniker “Number Nip.”\n\nIn legends, Rübezahl appears as a capricious giant, gnome, or mountain spirit. With good people he is friendly, teaching them medicine and giving them presents. If someone derides him, however, he exacts a severe revenge. He sometimes plays the role of a trickster in folk tales.\n\nThe stories originate from pagan times. Rübezahl is the fantastic Lord of Weather of the mountains and is similar to the Wild Hunt. Unexpectedly or playfully, he sends lightning and thunder, fog, rain and snow from the mountain above, even while the sun is shining. He may take the appearance of a monk in a gray frock (like Wotan in his mantel of clouds); he holds a stringed instrument in his hand (the storm harp), and walks so heavily that the earth trembles around him.\n\nIn Czech local fairytales Rübezahl (\"\") gave sourdough to people and invented traditional regional soup \"kyselo\". There is also mountain named \"Kotel\" (, ) which means cauldron. When fog rises from valley at bottom of the Kotel, people say that Rübezahl is cooking the \"kyselo\". Rubezahl is seen to be the guardian of the Krkonose Mountains . Physically he varies, he can take any form he wishes from an old granny to a giant crossing his mountains with one step. Historically his character has kept on expanding; from a bad demon causing storms and heavy snow, he evolved into a guardian of the poor people living in his mountains. It is said that he could test you at any time to know whether your heart is pure (ex. meeting you as an old lady asking for help) and that if you do, you would be shown the way to treasures hidden deep inside his mountains. He punished the German landlords mistreating Czech people as well as any invaders.\n\nThere are two museums devoted to the figure of Rubezahl. In the German city of Görlitz, the Rübezahl Museum was opened in May 2005, thanks to the work of Ingrid Vettin-Zahn. Originally from Lauban (Lubań) in Lower Silesia, Vettin-Zahn was expelled from her hometown like other Silesian Germans, and subsequently resettled in Switzerland after 1945. The Krakonošovo Museum is located in the Czech locale of Vysoké nad Jizerou and devoted to the Czech variant of Rübezahl () as well as the region around Vysoké nad Jizerou.\n\nRübezahl was first mentioned in 1565 as \"Ribicinia\" in a poem by Franz von Koeckritz. The Rübezahl story was first collected and written down by Johannes Praetorius in the \"Daemonologia Rubinzalii Silesii\" (1662). The character later appeared Johann Karl August Musäus's \"Legenden vom Rübezahl\" and Carl Hauptmann's \"Rübezahl-Buch\" as well as Otfried Preußler's \"Mein Rübezahl-Buch\". Finally, there is Ferdinand Freiligrath's \"Aus dem schlesischen Gebirge\" from \"Ein Glaubensbekenntnis\", 1844 and Robert Reinick's \"Rübezahls Mittagstisch\". He is potentially inspiration for the character 'Huhn' in Gerhart Hauptmann's \"Und Pippa Tanzt!\".\n\nThe poem \"Count Carrots\", by Gerda Mayer, is based on the tale and appears in \"The Oxford Book of Story Poems\".\n\nNear Mount Sněžka in the Czech Republic close to the Polish border, there is a botanical locality with an especially large variety of plants that bears the name \"Rübezahl's Garden\". Some unusual stone buildings in the area are named after him as well, for example the \"Rübezahlkanzel an den Schneegruben\".\n\nIn the vicinity of Jelenia Góra and other Polish locales under the Krkonose Mountains, there is an annual series of Opera performances titled \"Muzyczny Ogród Liczyrzepy\", which translates into English as \"Rübezahl's Musical Garden. In 2016 the series commenced for the 13th time.\n\n\nThe Czech variant of Rübezahl, \"Krakonoš\", features in literature and in other culture:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17955252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17955252", "title": "Shalom Koboshvili", "text": "Shalom Koboshvili\n\nShalom Koboshvili (b. Akhaltsikhe, 1876, d. Tbilisi 1941) was a Georgian artist who specialised in drawings and paintings of Jewish life in Georgia.\n\nBorn to a poor family of Jews in Akhaltsikhe, Koboshvili was originally intended for the Rabbinate, but quit religious training at an early age. His interest in art was discouraged by his family, and he was originally apprenticed as a printer. All his knowledge of art was effectively self-taught. After a varied career (in which around 1910 he is said to have met with the artist Niko Pirosmani) he eventually became in 1937 a watchman at the newly established Jewish Historic-Ethnographic Museum in Tbilisi. His work there apparently inspired him to devote himself to painting and all his surviving work dates from the period 1937-1941, the year of his death.\n\nKoboshvili's work, which is all in a competent but naive style, is entirely devoted to scenes of Jewish life; sometimes painted in oils, sometimes in water colours on paper. There are scenes relating to Jewish marriages, to Jewish festivals (including Succot and Yom Kippur), and to scenes of Jewish life in Georgian villages and on Jewish collective farms.\n\nThe Georgian Jewish Museum was forcibly closed in the 1950s and its contents, including the works of Koboshvili, were transferred to the National Museum of Georgia, to which they still belong. A retrospective exhibition of the works of Koboshvili was held at the Museum in Tbilisi in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "12481774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12481774", "title": "Shanti Kali", "text": "Shanti Kali\n\nGURUDEV SANTI KALI or SANTI TRIPURA (died August 27, 2000) was a popular Hindu priest who was shot to death inside his ashram near Jirania under the Sadar subdivision in the Indian state of Tripura. Police reports regarding the incident identified ten members of the Christian terrorist organization National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) as being responsible for the murder.\n\nShanti Tripura, also commonly known as Shanti Kali, was a well-known Hindu saint working among the tribals in Tripura. His ashram was located near the Khumlwng area.\n\nHe was born in a small village named Fulsori in south Tripura district of Subrum subdivision. He was the thirteenth child of Dhananjay Tripura and Khanjan Devi.\n\nHe then left Tripura and ventured on a pilgrimage throughout India. It was during his travels that he determined to return to Tripura and establish a temple in the honor of Goddess Tripura Sundari and an ashram from which to administer to the needs of local tribals. After completing his pilgrimage, he devoted his life to establishing the Shanti Kali Ashram, first consecrated in 1979 at Manu in Subrum, on the auspicious day of Shiv Chaturdashi.\n\nThe ashram has now grown to include eighteen branches in Tripura. It has since been named the Shanti Kali Mission. The mission has been engaged in providing education to poor children, health services to the poor and running primary schools and orphanages.\n\nOn Aug 27, 2000, Shanti Kali was presiding at his ashram with a gathering of local devotees. At night, Christian militants belonging to the separatist organization, NLFT, broke into the ashram and murdered the priest for refusing to convert to Christianity along with his followers .\n\nIn the same month, another Hindu leader of the Jamatya community, Jaulushmoni Jamatya, was also murdered.\n\nOn Dec 4, 2000, nearly three months after his death, an ashram set up by Shanti Kali at Chachu Bazar near the Sidhai police station was raided by Christian militants belonging to the NLFT. In the months following his death, eleven of the priest's ashrams, schools, and orphanages around the state were closed down by the NLFT.\n"}
{"id": "28370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28370", "title": "Siddur", "text": "Siddur\n\nA siddur ( ; plural siddurim סדורים, ) is a Jewish prayer book, containing a set order of daily prayers. The word \"siddur\" comes from the Hebrew root meaning \"order\".\n\nThe earliest parts of Jewish prayer book are the \"Shema Yisrael\" (\"Hear O Israel\") (Deuteronomy 6:4 \"et seq\"), and the Priestly Blessing (Numbers 6:24-26), which are in the Torah. A set of eighteen (currently nineteen) blessings called the \"Shemoneh Esreh\" or the \"Amidah\" (Hebrew, \"standing [prayer]\"), is traditionally ascribed to the Great Assembly in the time of Ezra, at the end of the Biblical period.\n\nThe name \"Shemoneh Esreh\", literally \"eighteen\", is a historical anachronism, since it now contains nineteen blessings. It was only near the end of the Second Temple period that the eighteen prayers of the weekday Amidah became standardized. Even at that time their precise wording and order was not yet fixed, and varied from locale to locale. Many modern scholars believe that parts of the Amidah came from the Hebrew apocryphal work Ben Sira.\n\nAccording to the Talmud, soon after the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem a formal version of the Amidah was adopted at a rabbinical council in Yavne, under the leadership of Rabban Gamaliel II and his colleagues. However, the precise wording was still left open. The order, general ideas, opening and closing lines were fixed. Most of the wording was left to the individual reader. It was not until several centuries later that the prayers began to be formally fixed. By the Middle Ages the texts of the prayers were nearly fixed, and in the form in which they are still used today.\n\nThe siddur was printed by Soncino in Italy as early as 1486, though a siddur was first mass-distributed only in 1865. The siddur began appearing in the vernacular as early as 1538. The first English translation was published in London in 1738 by an author writing under the pseudonym Gamaliel ben Pedahzur; a different translation was released in the United States in 1837.\n\nReadings from the Torah (five books of Moses) and the Nevi'im (\"Prophets\") form part of the prayer services. To this framework various Jewish sages added, from time to time, various prayers, and, for festivals especially, numerous hymns.\n\nThe earliest existing codification of the prayerbook was drawn up by Rav Amram Gaon of Sura, Babylon, about 850 CE. Half a century later Rav Saadia Gaon, also of Sura, composed a siddur, in which the rubrical matter is in Arabic. These were the basis of Simcha ben Samuel's Machzor Vitry (11th century France), which was based on the ideas of his teacher, Rashi. Another formulation of the prayers was that appended by Maimonides to the laws of prayer in his Mishneh Torah: this forms the basis of the Yemenite liturgy, and has had some influence on other rites. From this point forward all Jewish prayerbooks had the same basic order and contents.\n\nTwo authoritative versions of the Ashkenazi siddur were those of Shabbetai Sofer in the 16th century and Seligman Baer in the 19th century; siddurim have also been published reflecting the views of Jacob Emden and the Vilna Gaon.\n\nThere are differences among, amongst others, the Sephardic (including Spanish and Portuguese and Mizrachim), Teimani (Yemenite),\nChasidic, Ashkenazic (divided into German, Polish and other European and eastern-European rites), Bené Roma or Italkim, Romaniote (Greek, once extending to Turkey, Crimea and the southern Italian peninsula) and also Persian-, Kurdish-, Bukharian-, Georgian-, Mountain Jewish-, Ethiopian- and Cochin-Jewish liturgies. Most of these are slight differences in the wording of the prayers; for instance, Oriental Sephardic and some Hasidic prayer books state \"חננו מאתך חכמה בינה ודעת\", \"Graciously bestow upon us from You wisdom (\"ḥochmah\"), understanding (\"binah\") and knowledge (\"daat\")\", in allusion to the Kabbalistic sefirot of those names, while the Nusach Ashkenaz, as well as Western Sephardic and other Hasidic versions retain the older wording \"חננו מאתך דעה בינה והשכל\", \"Graciously bestow upon us from You knowledge, understanding, and reason\". In some cases, however, the order of the preparation for the Amidah is drastically different, reflecting the different halakhic and kabbalistic formulae that the various scholars relied on in assembling their siddurim, as well as the minhagim, or customs, or their locales.\n\nSome forms of the Sephardi rite are considered to be very overtly kabbalistic, depending on how far they reflect the ritual of Isaac Luria. This is partly because the Tetragrammaton frequently appears with varying vowel points beneath the letters (unpronounced, but to be meditated upon) and different Names of God appear in small print within the final hei (ה) of the Tetragrammaton. In some editions, there is a Psalm in the preparations for the Amidah that is printed in the outline of a menorah, and the worshipper meditates on this shape as he recites the psalm.\n\nThe Ashkenazi rite is more common than the Sephardi rite in America. While Nusach Ashkenaz does contain some kabbalistic elements, such as acrostics and allusions to the sefirot (\"To You, God, is the greatness [gedullah], and the might [gevurah], and the glory [tiferet], longevity [netzach]...\" etc.), these are not easily seen unless the reader is already initiated. It is notable that although many other traditions avoid using the poem Anim Zemiroth on the Sabbath, for fear that its holiness would be less appreciated due to the frequency of the Sabbath, the poem is usually sung by Ashkenazi congregations before concluding the Sabbath Musaf service with the daily psalm. The ark is opened for the duration of the song.\n\nHasidim, though usually ethnically Ashkenazi, usually use liturgies with varying degrees of Sephardic influence, such as Nusach Sefard and Nusach Ari, in order to follow the order of the prayers set by Rabbi Isaac Luria, often called \"Ari HaKadosh\", or \"The Holy Lion\". Although the Ari himself was born Ashkenazi, he borrowed many elements from Sephardi and other traditions, since he felt that they followed Kabbalah and Halacha more faithfully. The Ari did not publish any siddur, but orally transmitted his particular usages to his students with interpretations and certain meditations. Many siddurim containing some form of the Sephardic rite together with the usages of the Ari were published, both by actual Sephardic communities and for the use of Hasidim and other Ashkenazim interested in Kabbalah. In 1803, Rabbi Schneur Zalman of Liadi compiled an authoritative siddur from the sixty siddurim that he checked for compliance with Hebrew grammar, Jewish law, and Kabbalah: this is what is known today as the \"Nusach Ari\", and is used by Lubavitch Hasidim. Those that use Nusach HaAri claim that it is an all-encompassing nusach that is valid for any Jew, no matter what his ancestral tribe or identity, a view attributed to the Maggid of Mezeritch.\n\nThe Mahzor of each rite is distinguished by hymns (\"piyyutim\") composed by authors (\"payyetanim\"). The most important writers are Yose ben Yoseh, probably in the 6th century, chiefly known for his compositions for Yom Kippur; Eleazar Kalir, the founder of the payyetanic style, perhaps in the 7th century; Saadia Gaon; and the Spanish school, consisting of Joseph ibn Abitur (died in 970), ibn Gabirol, Isaac Gayyath, Moses ibn Ezra, Abraham ibn Ezra and Judah ha-Levi, Moses ben Nahman (Nahmanides) and Isaac Luria. In the case of Nusach HaAri, however, many of these High Holiday piyyutim are absent: the older piyyutim were not present in the Sephardic rite, on which Nusach HaAri was based, and the followers of the Ari removed the piyyutim composed by the Spanish school.\n\nSome siddurim have only prayers for weekdays; others have prayers for weekdays and Shabbat. Many have prayers for weekdays, Shabbat, and the three Biblical festivals, Sukkot (the feast of Tabernacles), Shavuot (the feast of weeks) and Pesach (Passover). The latter are referred to as a \"Siddur Shalem\" (\"complete siddur\").\n\n\nBelow are listed many popular siddurim used by religious Jews. This list mostly excludes prayer books specifically for the High Holidays; see Machzor (Popular versions).\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese siddurim follow the halakha of Rabbi Ovadia Yosef (1920–2013) a Talmudic scholar, and authority on Jewish religious law, and spiritual leader of Israel's ultra-orthodox Shas party. Yosef believed that the Sephardic halakhic tradition favoured leniency, and these principles are reflected in his siddurim.\nplease note, these siddurim are also for the Edot Ha-mizrach communities.\n\n\nplease note: there are siddurim for \"women only\" that are labeled \"L'bat Yisrael\" - these are not considered feminist. the rabbis (rabbi ovadia yosef, etc. ) created a siddur specifically for women's use only. because women in some cases, it is said, women do not have to pray or say G-ds name in tefillah so a special siddur was created for their use. the prayers are shortened, and more emphasis is put on things women do . men's prayers are missing, (although you can follow the prayer service.) and the tefillah is changed to suite a woman's way of speech. and it also has the book of psalms, or \"tehillim\" included in it.\nsome notable siddurim are:\n\n\n\"(Characterised by relative absence of Kabbalistic elements:)\"\n\n\n\"(Usually characterised by presence of Kabbalistic elements:)\"\n\n\"(Usually characterised by presence of Kabbalistic elements:)\"\n\n\"(Usually characterised by presence of Kabbalistic elements:)\"\n\n\n\nThe Baladi Jews (from Arabic \"balad\", country) follow the legal rulings of the \"Rambam\" (Maimonides) as codified in his work the \"Mishneh Torah\". Rabbi Yiḥye Tsalaḥ (Maharits) revised this liturgy to end friction between traditionalists (who followed Rambam's rulings and the siddur as it developed in Yemen) and Kabbalists who followed the innovations of the Ari. This siddur makes very few additions or changes and substantially follows the older Yemenite tradition as it had existed prior to this conflict.\n\n\nThe Shami Jews (from Arabic \"ash-Sham\", the north, referring to Palestine or Damascus) represent those who accepted the Sephardic rite, after being exposed to new inexpensive, typeset siddurs brought from Israel and the Sephardic diaspora by envoys and merchants in the late 17th century and 18th century. The \"local rabbinic leadership resisted the new versions...Nevertheless, the new prayer books were widely accepted.\" As part of that process, the Shami modified their rites to accommodate the usages of the Ari to the maximum extent. The text of the Shami siddur now largely follows the Sephardic tradition, though the pronunciation, chant and customs are still Yemenite in flavour.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Siddur Nashim\" was the first Sabbath prayer book to refer to God using female pronouns and imagery; it was self-published in 1976 by Naomi Janowitz and Margaret Wenig.\n\nReconstructionist Rabbi Rebecca Alpert (\"Reform Judaism\", Winter 1991) commented:\n\nLiberal prayerbooks tend increasingly to avoid male-specific words and pronouns, seeking that all references to God in translations be made in gender-neutral language. For example, the UK Liberal movement's \"Siddur Lev Chadash\" (1995) does so, as does the UK Reform Movement's \"Forms of Prayer\" (2008). In Mishkan T'filah, the American Reform Jewish prayer book released in 2007, references to God as “He” have been removed, and whenever Jewish patriarchs are named (Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob), so also are the matriarchs (Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel, and Leah.) \n\nYoreh writes about his work: \"I think prayer is communal and private expression of hopes, fears, an appreciation of aesthetic beauty, good attributes. But that has nothing to do with God.”\n\nThere are also some Karaite, Samaritan and Sabbatean prayer books.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26743", "title": "Sigmund Freud", "text": "Sigmund Freud\n\nSigmund Freud ( ; ; born Sigismund Schlomo Freud; 6 May 1856 – 23 September 1939) was an Austrian neurologist and the founder of psychoanalysis, a clinical method for treating psychopathology through dialogue between a patient and a psychoanalyst.\n\nFreud was born to Galician Jewish parents in the Moravian town of Freiberg, in the Austrian Empire. He qualified as a doctor of medicine in 1881 at the University of Vienna. Upon completing his habilitation in 1885, he was appointed a docent in neuropathology and became an affiliated professor in 1902. Freud lived and worked in Vienna, having set up his clinical practice there in 1886. In 1938 Freud left Austria to escape the Nazis. He died in exile in the United Kingdom in 1939.\n\nIn creating psychoanalysis, Freud developed therapeutic techniques such as the use of free association and discovered transference, establishing its central role in the analytic process. Freud's redefinition of sexuality to include its infantile forms led him to formulate the Oedipus complex as the central tenet of psychoanalytical theory. His analysis of dreams as wish-fulfillments provided him with models for the clinical analysis of symptom formation and the underlying mechanisms of repression. On this basis Freud elaborated his theory of the unconscious and went on to develop a model of psychic structure comprising id, ego and super-ego. Freud postulated the existence of libido, an energy with which mental processes and structures are invested and which generates erotic attachments, and a death drive, the source of compulsive repetition, hate, aggression and neurotic guilt. In his later works, Freud developed a wide-ranging interpretation and critique of religion and culture.\n\nThough in overall decline as a diagnostic and clinical practice, psychoanalysis remains influential within psychology, psychiatry, and psychotherapy, and across the humanities. It thus continues to generate extensive and highly contested debate with regard to its therapeutic efficacy, its scientific status, and whether it advances or is detrimental to the feminist cause. Nonetheless, Freud's work has suffused contemporary Western thought and popular culture. In the words of W. H. Auden's 1940 poetic tribute, by the time of Freud's death, he had become \"a whole climate of opinion / under whom we conduct our different lives.\"\n\nFreud was born to Jewish parents in the Moravian town of Freiberg, in the Austrian Empire (later Příbor, Czech Republic), the first of eight children. Both of his parents were from Galicia, in modern-day Ukraine. His father, Jakob Freud (1815–1896), a wool merchant, had two sons, Emanuel (1833–1914) and Philipp (1836–1911), by his first marriage. Jakob's family were Hasidic Jews, and although Jakob himself had moved away from the tradition, he came to be known for his Torah study. He and Freud's mother, Amalia Nathansohn, who was 20 years younger and his third wife, were married by Rabbi Isaac Noah Mannheimer on 29 July 1855. They were struggling financially and living in a rented room, in a locksmith's house at Schlossergasse 117 when their son Sigmund was born. He was born with a caul, which his mother saw as a positive omen for the boy's future.\n\nIn 1859, the Freud family left Freiberg. Freud's half brothers emigrated to Manchester, England, parting him from the \"inseparable\" playmate of his early childhood, Emanuel's son, John. Jakob Freud took his wife and two children (Freud's sister, Anna, was born in 1858; a brother, Julius born in 1857, had died in infancy) firstly to Leipzig and then in 1860 to Vienna where four sisters and a brother were born: Rosa (b. 1860), Marie (b. 1861), Adolfine (b. 1862), Paula (b. 1864), Alexander (b. 1866). In 1865, the nine-year-old Freud entered the \"Leopoldstädter Kommunal-Realgymnasium\", a prominent high school. He proved to be an outstanding pupil and graduated from the Matura in 1873 with honors. He loved literature and was proficient in German, French, Italian, Spanish, English, Hebrew, Latin and Greek.\n\nFreud entered the University of Vienna at age 17. He had planned to study law, but joined the medical faculty at the university, where his studies included philosophy under Franz Brentano, physiology under Ernst Brücke, and zoology under Darwinist professor Carl Claus. In 1876, Freud spent four weeks at Claus's zoological research station in Trieste, dissecting hundreds of eels in an inconclusive search for their male reproductive organs. In 1877 Freud moved to Ernst Brücke's physiology laboratory where he spent six years comparing the brains of humans and other vertebrates with those of invertebrates such as frogs, crayfish and lampreys. His research work on the biology of nervous tissue proved seminal for the subsequent discovery of the neuron in the 1890s. Freud's research work was interrupted in 1879 by the obligation to undertake a year's compulsory military service. The lengthy downtimes enabled him to complete a commission to translate four essays from John Stuart Mill's collected works. He graduated with an MD in March 1881.\n\nIn 1882, Freud began his medical career at the Vienna General Hospital. His research work in cerebral anatomy led to the publication of an influential paper on the palliative effects of cocaine in 1884 and his work on aphasia would form the basis of his first book \"On the Aphasias: a Critical Study\", published in 1891. Over a three-year period, Freud worked in various departments of the hospital. His time spent in Theodor Meynert's psychiatric clinic and as a locum in a local asylum led to an increased interest in clinical work. His substantial body of published research led to his appointment as a university lecturer or docent in neuropathology in 1885, a non-salaried post but one which entitled him to give lectures at the University of Vienna.\n\nIn 1886, Freud resigned his hospital post and entered private practice specializing in \"nervous disorders\". The same year he married Martha Bernays, the granddaughter of Isaac Bernays, a chief rabbi in Hamburg. They had six children: Mathilde (b. 1887), Jean-Martin (b. 1889), Oliver (b. 1891), Ernst (b. 1892), Sophie (b. 1893), and Anna (b. 1895). From 1891 until they left Vienna in 1938, Freud and his family lived in an apartment at Berggasse 19, near Innere Stadt, a historical district of Vienna.\nIn 1896, Minna Bernays, Martha Freud's sister, became a permanent member of the Freud household after the death of her fiancé. The close relationship she formed with Freud led to rumours, started by Carl Jung, of an affair. The discovery of a Swiss hotel log of 13 August 1898, signed by Freud whilst travelling with his sister-in-law, has been presented as evidence of the affair.\n\nFreud began smoking tobacco at age 24; initially a cigarette smoker, he became a cigar smoker. He believed that smoking enhanced his capacity to work and that he could exercise self-control in moderating it. Despite health warnings from colleague Wilhelm Fliess, he remained a smoker, eventually suffering a buccal cancer. Freud suggested to Fliess in 1897 that addictions, including that to tobacco, were substitutes for masturbation, \"the one great habit.\"\n\nFreud had greatly admired his philosophy tutor, Brentano, who was known for his theories of perception and introspection. Brentano discussed the possible existence of the unconscious mind in his \"Psychology from an Empirical Standpoint\" (1874). Although Brentano denied its existence, his discussion of the unconscious probably helped introduce Freud to the concept. Freud owned and made use of Charles Darwin's major evolutionary writings, and was also influenced by Eduard von Hartmann's The Philosophy of the Unconscious (1869). Other texts of importance to Freud were by Fechner and Herbart with the latter’s \"Psychology as Science\" arguably considered to be of underrated significance in this respect. Freud also drew on the work of Theodor Lipps who was one of the main contemporary theorists of the concepts of the unconscious and empathy.\n\nThough Freud was reluctant to associate his psychoanalytic insights with prior philosophical theories, attention has been drawn to analogies between his work and that of both Schopenhauer and Nietzsche, both of whom he claimed not to have read until late in life. One historian concluded, based on Freud's correspondence with his adolescent friend Eduard Silberstein, that Freud read Nietzsche's \"The Birth of Tragedy\" and the first two of the \"Untimely Meditations\" when he was seventeen. In 1900, the year of Nietzsche's death, Freud bought his collected works; he told his friend, Fliess, that he hoped to find in Nietzsche's works \"the words for much that remains mute in me.\" Later, he said he had not yet opened them. Freud came to treat Nietzsche's writings \"as texts to be resisted far more than to be studied.\" His interest in philosophy declined after he had decided on a career in neurology.\n\nFreud read William Shakespeare in English throughout his life, and it has been suggested that his understanding of human psychology may have been partially derived from Shakespeare's plays.\n\nFreud's Jewish origins and his allegiance to his secular Jewish identity were of significant influence in the formation of his intellectual and moral outlook, especially with respect to his intellectual non-conformism, as he was the first to point out in his \"Autobiographical Study\". They would also have a substantial effect on the content of psychoanalytic ideas, particularly in respect of their common concerns with depth interpretation and “the bounding of desire by law”. \n\nIn October 1885, Freud went to Paris on a fellowship to study with Jean-Martin Charcot, a renowned neurologist who was conducting scientific research into hypnosis. He was later to recall the experience of this stay as catalytic in turning him toward the practice of medical psychopathology and away from a less financially promising career in neurology research. Charcot specialized in the study of hysteria and susceptibility to hypnosis, which he frequently demonstrated with patients on stage in front of an audience.\n\nOnce he had set up in private practice in 1886, Freud began using hypnosis in his clinical work. He adopted the approach of his friend and collaborator, Josef Breuer, in a use of hypnosis which was different from the French methods he had studied in that it did not use suggestion. The treatment of one particular patient of Breuer's proved to be transformative for Freud's clinical practice. Described as Anna O., she was invited to talk about her symptoms while under hypnosis (she would coin the phrase \"talking cure\" for her treatment). In the course of talking in this way these symptoms became reduced in severity as she retrieved memories of traumatic incidents associated with their onset.\n\nThe uneven results of Freud's early clinical work eventually led him to abandon hypnosis, having reached the conclusion that more consistent and effective symptom relief could be achieved by encouraging patients to talk freely, without censorship or inhibition, about whatever ideas or memories occurred to them. In conjunction with this procedure, which he called \"free association\", Freud found that patients' dreams could be fruitfully analyzed to reveal the complex structuring of unconscious material and to demonstrate the psychic action of repression which, he had concluded, underlay symptom formation. By 1896 he was using the term \"psychoanalysis\" to refer to his new clinical method and the theories on which it was based.\n\nFreud's development of these new theories took place during a period in which he experienced heart irregularities, disturbing dreams and periods of depression, a \"neurasthenia\" which he linked to the death of his father in 1896 and which prompted a \"self-analysis\" of his own dreams and memories of childhood. His explorations of his feelings of hostility to his father and rivalrous jealousy over his mother's affections led him to fundamentally revise his theory of the origin of the neuroses.\n\nOn the basis of his early clinical work, Freud had postulated that unconscious memories of sexual molestation in early childhood were a necessary precondition for the psychoneuroses (hysteria and obsessional neurosis), a formulation now known as Freud's seduction theory. In the light of his self-analysis, Freud abandoned the theory that every neurosis can be traced back to the effects of infantile sexual abuse, now arguing that infantile sexual scenarios still had a causative function, but it did not matter whether they were real or imagined and that in either case they became pathogenic only when acting as repressed memories.\n\nThis transition from the theory of infantile sexual trauma as a general explanation of how all neuroses originate to one that presupposes an autonomous infantile sexuality provided the basis for Freud's subsequent formulation of the theory of the Oedipus complex.\n\nFreud described the evolution of his clinical method and set out his theory of the psychogenetic origins of hysteria, demonstrated in a number of case histories, in \"Studies on Hysteria\" published in 1895 (co-authored with Josef Breuer). In 1899 he published \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" in which, following a critical review of existing theory, Freud gives detailed interpretations of his own and his patients' dreams in terms of wish-fulfillments made subject to the repression and censorship of the \"dream work\". He then sets out the theoretical model of mental structure (the unconscious, pre-conscious and conscious) on which this account is based. An abridged version, \"On Dreams\", was published in 1901. In works which would win him a more general readership, Freud applied his theories outside the clinical setting in \"The Psychopathology of Everyday Life\" (1901) and \"Jokes and their Relation to the Unconscious\" (1905). In \"Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality\", published in 1905, Freud elaborates his theory of infantile sexuality, describing its \"polymorphous perverse\" forms and the functioning of the \"drives\", to which it gives rise, in the formation of sexual identity. The same year he published ‘Fragment of an Analysis of a Case of Hysteria (Dora)' which became one of his more famous and controversial case studies.\n\nDuring this formative period of his work, Freud valued and came to rely on the intellectual and emotional support of his friend Wilhelm Fliess, a Berlin based ear, nose and throat specialist whom he had first met 1887. Both men saw themselves as isolated from the prevailing clinical and theoretical mainstream because of their ambitions to develop radical new theories of sexuality. Fliess developed highly eccentric theories of human biorhythms and a nasogenital connection which are today considered pseudoscientific. He shared Freud's views on the importance of certain aspects of sexuality — masturbation, coitus interruptus, and the use of condoms — in the etiology of what were then called the \"actual neuroses,\" primarily neurasthenia and certain physically manifested anxiety symptoms. They maintained an extensive correspondence from which Freud drew on Fliess's speculations on infantile sexuality and bisexuality to elaborate and revise his own ideas. His first attempt at a systematic theory of the mind, his \"Project for a Scientific Psychology\" was developed as a metapsychology with Fliess as interlocutor. However, Freud’s efforts to build a bridge between neurology and psychology were eventually abandoned after they had reached an impasse, as his letters to Fliess reveal, though the soundest ideas of the \"Project\" were to be taken up again in the concluding chapter of \"The Interpretation of Dreams\".\n\nFreud had Fliess repeatedly operate on his nose and sinuses to treat \"nasal reflex neurosis\", and subsequently referred his patient Emma Eckstein to him. According to Freud her history of symptoms included severe leg pains with consequent restricted mobility, and stomach and menstrual pains. These pains were, according to Fliess's theories, caused by habitual masturbation which, as the tissue of the nose and genitalia were linked, was curable by removal of part of the middle turbinate. Fliess's surgery proved disastrous, resulting in profuse, recurrent nasal bleeding - he had left a half-metre of gauze in Eckstein's nasal cavity the subsequent removal of which left her permanently disfigured. At first, though aware of Fliess's culpability – Freud fled from the remedial surgery in horror – he could only bring himself to delicately intimate in his correspondence to Fliess the nature of his disastrous role and in subsequent letters maintained a tactful silence on the matter or else returned to the face-saving topic of Eckstein's hysteria. Freud ultimately, in light of Eckstein's history of adolescent self-cutting and irregular nasal and menstrual bleeding, concluded that Fliess was \"completely without blame\", as Eckstein's post-operative hemorrhages were hysterical \"wish-bleedings\" linked to \"an old wish to be loved in her illness\" and triggered as a means of \"rearousing [Freud's] affection\". Eckstein nonetheless continued her analysis with Freud. She was restored to full mobility and went on to practice psychoanalysis herself.\n\nFreud, who had called Fliess \"the Kepler of biology\", later concluded that a combination of a homoerotic attachment and the residue of his \"specifically Jewish mysticism\" lay behind his loyalty to his Jewish friend and his consequent over-estimation of both his theoretical and clinical work. Their friendship came to an acrimonious end with Fliess angry at Freud's unwillingness to endorse his general theory of sexual periodicity and accusing him of collusion in the plagiarism of his work. After Fliess failed to respond to Freud's offer of collaboration over publication of his \"Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality\" in 1906, their relationship came to an end.\n\nIn 1902, Freud at last realised his long-standing ambition to be made a university professor. The title \"professor extraordinarius\" was important to Freud for the recognition and prestige it conferred, there being no salary or teaching duties attached to the post (he would be granted the enhanced status of \"professor ordinarius\" in 1920). Despite support from the university, his appointment had been blocked in successive years by the political authorities and it was secured only with the intervention of one of his more influential ex-patients, a Baroness Marie Ferstel, who had to bribe the minister of education with a painting.\n\nWith his prestige thus enhanced, Freud continued with the regular series of lectures on his work which, since the mid-1880s as a docent of Vienna University, he had been delivering to small audiences every Saturday evening at the lecture hall of the university's psychiatric clinic.\n\nFrom the autumn of 1902, a number of Viennese physicians who had expressed interest in Freud's work were invited to meet at his apartment every Wednesday afternoon to discuss issues relating to psychology and neuropathology. This group was called the Wednesday Psychological Society (\"Psychologische Mittwochs-Gesellschaft\") and it marked the beginnings of the worldwide psychoanalytic movement.\n\nFreud founded this discussion group at the suggestion of the physician Wilhelm Stekel. Stekel had studied medicine at the University of Vienna under Richard von Krafft-Ebing. His conversion to psychoanalysis is variously attributed to his successful treatment by Freud for a sexual problem or as a result of his reading \"The Interpretation of Dreams\", to which he subsequently gave a positive review in the Viennese daily newspaper \"Neues Wiener Tagblatt\".\n\nThe other three original members whom Freud invited to attend, Alfred Adler, Max Kahane, and Rudolf Reitler, were also physicians and all five were Jewish by birth. Both Kahane and Reitler were childhood friends of Freud. Kahane had attended the same secondary school and both he and Reitler went to university with Freud. They had kept abreast of Freud's developing ideas through their attendance at his Saturday evening lectures. In 1901, Kahane, who first introduced Stekel to Freud's work, had opened an out-patient psychotherapy institute of which he was the director in Bauernmarkt, in Vienna. In the same year, his medical textbook, \"Outline of Internal Medicine for Students and Practicing Physicians,\" was published. In it, he provided an outline of Freud's psychoanalytic method. Kahane broke with Freud and left the Wednesday Psychological Society in 1907 for unknown reasons and in 1923 committed suicide. Reitler was the director of an establishment providing thermal cures in Dorotheergasse which had been founded in 1901. He died prematurely in 1917. Adler, regarded as the most formidable intellect among the early Freud circle, was a socialist who in 1898 had written a health manual for the tailoring trade. He was particularly interested in the potential social impact of psychiatry.\n\nMax Graf, a Viennese musicologist and father of \"Little Hans\", who had first encountered Freud in 1900 and joined the Wednesday group soon after its initial inception, described the ritual and atmosphere of the early meetings of the society:\n\nThe gatherings followed a definite ritual. First one of the members would present a paper. Then, black coffee and cakes were served; cigar and cigarettes were on the table and were consumed in great quantities. After a social quarter of an hour, the discussion would begin. The last and decisive word was always spoken by Freud himself. There was the atmosphere of the foundation of a religion in that room. Freud himself was its new prophet who made the heretofore prevailing methods of psychological investigation appear superficial.\nBy 1906, the group had grown to sixteen members, including Otto Rank, who was employed as the group's paid secretary. In the same year, Freud began a correspondence with Carl Gustav Jung who was by then already an academically acclaimed researcher into word-association and the Galvanic Skin Response, and a lecturer at Zurich University, although still only an assistant to Eugen Bleuler at the Burghölzli Mental Hospital in Zürich. In March 1907, Jung and Ludwig Binswanger, also a Swiss psychiatrist, travelled to Vienna to visit Freud and attend the discussion group. Thereafter, they established a small psychoanalytic group in Zürich. In 1908, reflecting its growing institutional status, the Wednesday group was renamed the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society.\n\nIn 1911, the first women members were admitted to the Society. Tatiana Rosenthal and Sabina Spielrein were both Russian psychiatrists and graduates of the Zürich University medical school. Prior to the completion of her studies, Spielrein had been a patient of Jung at the Burghölzli and the clinical and personal details of their relationship became the subject of an extensive correspondence between Freud and Jung. Both women would go on to make important contributions to the work of the Russian Psychoanalytic Society founded in 1910.\n\nFreud's early followers met together formally for the first time at the Hotel Bristol, Salzburg on 27 April 1908. This meeting, which was retrospectively deemed to be the first International Psychoanalytic Congress, was convened at the suggestion of Ernest Jones, then a London-based neurologist who had discovered Freud's writings and begun applying psychoanalytic methods in his clinical work. Jones had met Jung at a conference the previous year and they met up again in Zürich to organize the Congress. There were, as Jones records, \"forty-two present, half of whom were or became practicing analysts.\" In addition to Jones and the Viennese and Zürich contingents accompanying Freud and Jung, also present and notable for their subsequent importance in the psychoanalytic movement were Karl Abraham and Max Eitingon from Berlin, Sándor Ferenczi from Budapest and the New York-based Abraham Brill.\n\nImportant decisions were taken at the Congress with a view to advancing the impact of Freud's work. A journal, the \"Jahrbuch für psychoanalytische und psychopathologishe Forschungen\", was launched in 1909 under the editorship of Jung. This was followed in 1910 by the monthly \"Zentralblatt für Psychoanalyse\" edited by Adler and Stekel, in 1911 by \"Imago\", a journal devoted to the application of psychoanalysis to the field of cultural and literary studies edited by Rank and in 1913 by the \"Internationale Zeitschrift für Psychoanalyse\", also edited by Rank. Plans for an international association of psychoanalysts were put in place and these were implemented at the Nuremberg Congress of 1910 where Jung was elected, with Freud's support, as its first president.\n\nFreud turned to Brill and Jones to further his ambition to spread the psychoanalytic cause in the English-speaking world. Both were invited to Vienna following the Salzburg Congress and a division of labour was agreed with Brill given the translation rights for Freud's works, and Jones, who was to take up a post at the University of Toronto later in the year, tasked with establishing a platform for Freudian ideas in North American academic and medical life. Jones's advocacy prepared the way for Freud's visit to the United States, accompanied by Jung and Ferenczi, in September 1909 at the invitation of Stanley Hall, president of Clark University, Worcester, Massachusetts, where he gave five lectures on psychoanalysis.\n\nThe event, at which Freud was awarded an Honorary Doctorate, marked the first public recognition of Freud's work and attracted widespread media interest. Freud's audience included the distinguished neurologist and psychiatrist James Jackson Putnam, Professor of Diseases of the Nervous System at Harvard, who invited Freud to his country retreat where they held extensive discussions over a period of four days. Putnam's subsequent public endorsement of Freud's work represented a significant breakthrough for the psychoanalytic cause in the United States. When Putnam and Jones organised the founding of the American Psychoanalytic Association in May 1911 they were elected president and secretary respectively. Brill founded the New York Psychoanalytic Society the same year. His English translations of Freud's work began to appear from 1909.\n\nSome of Freud's followers subsequently withdrew from the International Psychoanalytical Association (IPA) and founded their own schools.\n\nFrom 1909, Adler's views on topics such as neurosis began to differ markedly from those held by Freud. As Adler's position appeared increasingly incompatible with Freudianism, a series of confrontations between their respective viewpoints took place at the meetings of the Viennese Psychoanalytic Society in January and February 1911. In February 1911, Adler, then the president of the society, resigned his position. At this time, Stekel also resigned his position as vice president of the society. Adler finally left the Freudian group altogether in June 1911 to found his own organization with nine other members who had also resigned from the group. This new formation was initially called \"Society for Free Psychoanalysis\" but it was soon renamed the \"Society for Individual Psychology\". In the period after World War I, Adler became increasingly associated with a psychological position he devised called individual psychology.\n\nIn 1912, Jung published \"Wandlungen und Symbole der Libido\" (published in English in 1916 as \"Psychology of the Unconscious\") making it clear that his views were taking a direction quite different from those of Freud. To distinguish his system from psychoanalysis, Jung called it analytical psychology. Anticipating the final breakdown of the relationship between Freud and Jung, Ernest Jones initiated the formation of a secret Committee of loyalists charged with safeguarding the theoretical coherence and institutional legacy of the psychoanalytic movement. Formed in the autumn of 1912, the Committee comprised Freud, Jones, Abraham, Ferenczi, Rank, and Hanns Sachs. Max Eitingon joined the Committee in 1919. Each member pledged himself not to make any public departure from the fundamental tenets of psychoanalytic theory before he had discussed his views with the others. After this development, Jung recognised that his position was untenable and resigned as editor of the \"Jarhbuch\" and then as president of the IPA in April 1914. The Zürich Society withdrew from the IPA the following July.\n\nLater the same year, Freud published a paper entitled \"\", the German original being first published in the \"Jahrbuch\", giving his view on the birth and evolution of the psychoanalytic movement and the withdrawal of Adler and Jung from it.\n\nThe final defection from Freud's inner circle occurred following the publication in 1924 of Rank's \"The Trauma of Birth\" which other members of the committee read as, in effect, abandoning the Oedipus Complex as the central tenet of psychoanalytic theory. Abraham and Jones became increasingly forceful critics of Rank and though he and Freud were reluctant to end their close and long-standing relationship the break finally came in 1926 when Rank resigned from his official posts in the IPA and left Vienna for Paris. His place on the committee was taken by Anna Freud. Rank eventually settled in the United States where his revisions of Freudian theory were to influence a new generation of therapists uncomfortable with the orthodoxies of the IPA.\n\nAfter the founding of the IPA in 1910, an international network of psychoanalytical societies, training institutes and clinics became well established and a regular schedule of biannual Congresses commenced after the end of World War I to coordinate their activities.\n\nAbraham and Eitingon founded the Berlin Psychoanalytic Society in 1910 and then the Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute and the Poliklinik in 1920. The Poliklinik's innovations of free treatment, and child analysis and the Berlin Institute's standardisation of psychoanalytic training had a major influence on the wider psychoanalytic movement. In 1927 Ernst Simmel founded the Schloss Tegel Sanatorium on the outskirts of Berlin, the first such establishment to provide psychoanalytic treatment in an institutional framework. Freud organised a fund to help finance its activities and his architect son, Ernst, was commissioned to refurbish the building. It was forced to close in 1931 for economic reasons.\n\nThe 1910 Moscow Psychoanalytic Society became the Russian Psychoanalytic Society and Institute in 1922. Freud's Russian followers were the first to benefit from translations of his work, the 1904 Russian translation of \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" appearing nine years before Brill's English edition. The Russian Institute was unique in receiving state support for its activities, including publication of translations of Freud's works. Support was abruptly annulled in 1924, when Joseph Stalin came to power, after which psychoanalysis was denounced on ideological grounds.\n\nAfter helping found the American Psychoanalytic Association in 1911, Ernest Jones returned to Britain from Canada in 1913 and founded the London Psychoanalytic Society the same year. In 1919, he dissolved this organisation and, with its core membership purged of Jungian adherents, founded the British Psychoanalytical Society, serving as its president until 1944. The Institute of Psychoanalysis was established 1924 and the London Clinic of Psychoanalysis established in 1926, both under Jones's directorship.\n\nThe Vienna Ambulatorium (Clinic) was established in 1922 and the Vienna Psychoanalytic Institute was founded in 1924 under the directorship of Helene Deutsch. Ferenczi founded the Budapest Psychoanalytic Institute in 1913 and a clinic in 1929.\n\nPsychoanalytic societies and institutes were established in Switzerland (1919), France (1926), Italy (1932), the Netherlands (1933), Norway (1933) and in Palestine (Jerusalem, 1933) by Eitingon, who had fled Berlin after Adolf Hitler came to power. The New York Psychoanalytic Institute was founded in 1931.\n\nThe 1922 Berlin Congress was the last Freud attended. By this time his speech had become seriously impaired by the prosthetic device he needed as a result of a series of operations on his cancerous jaw. He kept abreast of developments through a regular correspondence with his principal followers and via the circular letters and meetings of the secret Committee which he continued to attend.\n\nThe Committee continued to function until 1927 by which time institutional developments within the IPA, such as the establishment of the International Training Commission, had addressed concerns about the transmission of psychoanalytic theory and practice. There remained, however, significant differences over the issue of lay analysis - i.e. the acceptance of non-medically qualified candidates for psychoanalytic training. Freud set out his case in favour in 1926 in his \"The Question of Lay Analysis\". He was resolutely opposed by the American societies who expressed concerns over professional standards and the risk of litigation (though child analysts were made exempt). These concerns were also shared by some of his European colleagues. Eventually an agreement was reached allowing societies autonomy in setting criteria for candidature.\n\nIn 1930 Freud was awarded the Goethe Prize in recognition of his contributions to psychology and to German literary culture.\n\nFreud used pseudonyms in his case histories. Some patients known by pseudonyms were Cäcilie M. (Anna von Lieben); Dora (Ida Bauer, 1882–1945); Frau Emmy von N. (Fanny Moser); Fräulein Elisabeth von R. (Ilona Weiss); Fräulein Katharina (Aurelia Kronich); Fräulein Lucy R.; (Herbert Graf, 1903–1973); Rat Man (Ernst Lanzer, 1878–1914); Enos Fingy (Joshua Wild, 1878–1920); and Wolf Man (Sergei Pankejeff, 1887–1979). Other famous patients included Prince Pedro Augusto of Brazil (1866-1934); H.D. (1886–1961); Emma Eckstein (1865–1924); Gustav Mahler (1860–1911), with whom Freud had only a single, extended consultation; Princess Marie Bonaparte; Edith Banfield Jackson (1895–1977); and Albert Hirst (1887–1974).\n\nIn February 1923, Freud detected a leukoplakia, a benign growth associated with heavy smoking, on his mouth. Freud initially kept this secret, but in April 1923 he informed Ernest Jones, telling him that the growth had been removed. Freud consulted the dermatologist Maximilian Steiner, who advised him to quit smoking but lied about the growth's seriousness, minimizing its importance. Freud later saw Felix Deutsch, who saw that the growth was cancerous; he identified it to Freud using the euphemism \"a bad leukoplakia\" instead of the technical diagnosis epithelioma. Deutsch advised Freud to stop smoking and have the growth excised. Freud was treated by Marcus Hajek, a rhinologist whose competence he had previously questioned. Hajek performed an unnecessary cosmetic surgery in his clinic's outpatient department. Freud bled during and after the operation, and may narrowly have escaped death. Freud subsequently saw Deutsch again. Deutsch saw that further surgery would be required, but did not tell Freud that he had cancer because he was worried that Freud might wish to commit suicide.\n\nIn January 1933, the Nazi Party took control of Germany, and Freud's books were prominent among those they burned and destroyed. Freud remarked to Ernest Jones: \"What progress we are making. In the Middle Ages they would have burned me. Now, they are content with burning my books.\" Freud continued to underestimate the growing Nazi threat and remained determined to stay in Vienna, even following the Anschluss of 13 March 1938, in which Nazi Germany annexed Austria, and the outbreaks of violent anti-Semitism that ensued. Jones, the then president of the International Psychoanalytical Association (IPA), flew into Vienna from London via Prague on 15 March determined to get Freud to change his mind and seek exile in Britain. This prospect and the shock of the arrest and interrogation of Anna Freud by the Gestapo finally convinced Freud it was time to leave Austria. Jones left for London the following week with a list provided by Freud of the party of émigrés for whom immigration permits would be required. Back in London, Jones used his personal acquaintance with the Home Secretary, Sir Samuel Hoare, to expedite the granting of permits. There were seventeen in all and work permits were provided where relevant. Jones also used his influence in scientific circles, persuading the president of the Royal Society, Sir William Bragg, to write to the Foreign Secretary Lord Halifax, requesting to good effect that diplomatic pressure be applied in Berlin and Vienna on Freud's behalf. Freud also had support from American diplomats, notably his ex-patient and American ambassador to France, William Bullitt. Bullitt alerted US President Roosevelt to the increased dangers facing the Freuds, resulting in the American consul-general in Vienna, John Cooper Wiley, arranging regular monitoring of Berggasse 19. He also intervened by phone call during the Gestapo interrogation of Anna Freud.\n\nThe departure from Vienna began in stages throughout April and May 1938. Freud's grandson Ernst Halberstadt and Freud's son Martin's wife and children left for Paris in April. Freud's sister-in-law, Minna Bernays, left for London on 5 May, Martin Freud the following week and Freud's daughter Mathilde and her husband, Robert Hollitscher, on 24 May.\n\nBy the end of the month, arrangements for Freud's own departure for London had become stalled, mired in a legally tortuous and financially extortionate process of negotiation with the Nazi authorities. Under regulations imposed on its Jewish population by the new Nazi regime, a Kommissar was appointed to manage Freud's assets and those of the IPA whose headquarters were nearby Freud’s home. Freud was allocated to Dr. Anton Sauerwald, who had studied chemistry at Vienna University under Professor Josef Herzig, an old friend of Freud's. Sauerwald read Freud's books to further learn about him and became sympathetic towards his situation. Though required to disclose details of all Freud's bank accounts to his superiors and to arrange the destruction of the historic library of books housed in the offices of the IPA, Sauerwald did neither. Instead he removed evidence of Freud's foreign bank accounts to his own safe-keeping and arranged the storage of the IPA library in the Austrian National Library where it remained until the end of the war.\n\nThough Sauerwald's intervention lessened the financial burden of the \"flight\" tax on Freud's declared assets, other substantial charges were levied in relation to the debts of the IPA and the valuable collection of antiquities Freud possessed. Unable to access his own accounts, Freud turned to Princess Marie Bonaparte, the most eminent and wealthy of his French followers, who had travelled to Vienna to offer her support and it was she who made the necessary funds available. This allowed Sauerwald to sign the necessary exit visas for Freud, his wife Martha and daughter Anna. They left Vienna on the Orient Express on 4 June, accompanied by their housekeeper and a doctor, arriving in Paris the following day where they stayed as guests of Princess Bonaparte before travelling overnight to London arriving at Victoria Station on 6 June.\n\nAmong those soon to call on Freud to pay their respects were Salvador Dalí, Stefan Zweig, Leonard Woolf, Virginia Woolf and H. G. Wells. Representatives of the Royal Society called with the Society's Charter for Freud, who had been elected a Foreign Member in 1936, to sign himself into membership. Princess Bonaparte arrived towards the end of June to discuss the fate of Freud's four elderly sisters left behind in Vienna. Her subsequent attempts to get them exit visas failed and they would all die in Nazi concentration camps.\nIn early 1939 Sauerwald arrived in London in mysterious circumstances where he met Freud's brother Alexander. He was tried and imprisoned in 1945 by an Austrian court for his activities as a Nazi Party official. Responding to a plea from his wife, Anna Freud wrote to confirm that Sauerwald \"used his office as our appointed commissar in such a manner as to protect my father\". Her intervention helped secure his release from jail in 1947.\n\nIn the Freuds' new home, 20 Maresfield Gardens, Hampstead, North London, Freud's Vienna consulting room was recreated in faithful detail. He continued to see patients there until the terminal stages of his illness. He also worked on his last books, \"Moses and Monotheism\", published in German in 1938 and in English the following year and the uncompleted \"An Outline of Psychoanalysis\" which was published posthumously.\n\nBy mid-September 1939, Freud's cancer of the jaw was causing him increasingly severe pain and had been declared to be inoperable. The last book he read, Balzac's \"La Peau de chagrin\", prompted reflections on his own increasing frailty and a few days later he turned to his doctor, friend and fellow refugee, Max Schur, reminding him that they had previously discussed the terminal stages of his illness: \"Schur, you remember our 'contract' not to leave me in the lurch when the time had come. Now it is nothing but torture and makes no sense.\" When Schur replied that he had not forgotten, Freud said, \"I thank you,\" and then \"Talk it over with Anna, and if she thinks it's right, then make an end of it.\" Anna Freud wanted to postpone her father's death, but Schur convinced her it was pointless to keep him alive and on 21 and 22 September administered doses of morphine that resulted in Freud's death around 3 am on 23 September 1939. However, discrepancies in the various accounts Schur gave of his role in Freud's final hours, which have in turn led to inconsistencies between Freud's main biographers, has led to further research and a revised account. This proposes that Schur was absent from Freud's deathbed when a third and final dose of morphine was administered by Dr Josephine Stross, a colleague of Anna Freud's, leading to Freud's death around midnight on 23 September 1939.\n\nThree days after his death Freud's body was cremated at the Golders Green Crematorium in North London, with Harrods acting as funeral directors, on the instructions of his son, Ernst. Funeral orations were given by Ernest Jones and the Austrian author Stefan Zweig. Freud's ashes were later placed in the crematorium's \"Ernest George Columbarium\". They rest on a plinth designed by his son, Ernst, in a sealed ancient Greek krater painted with Dionysian scenes that Freud had received as a gift from Princess Bonaparte and which he had kept in his study in Vienna for many years. After his wife, Martha, died in 1951, her ashes were also placed in the urn.\n\nFreud began his study of medicine at the University of Vienna in 1873. He took almost nine years to complete his studies, due to his interest in neurophysiological research, specifically investigation of the sexual anatomy of eels and the physiology of the fish nervous system, and because of his interest in studying philosophy with Franz Brentano. He entered private practice in neurology for financial reasons, receiving his M.D. degree in 1881 at the age of 25. Amongst his principal concerns in the 1880s was the anatomy of the brain, specifically the medulla oblongata. He intervened in the important debates about aphasia with his monograph of 1891, \"Zur Auffassung der Aphasien\", in which he coined the term agnosia and counselled against a too locationist view of the explanation of neurological deficits. Like his contemporary Eugen Bleuler, he emphasized brain function rather than brain structure.\n\nFreud was also an early researcher in the field of cerebral palsy, which was then known as \"cerebral paralysis\". He published several medical papers on the topic, and showed that the disease existed long before other researchers of the period began to notice and study it. He also suggested that William John Little, the man who first identified cerebral palsy, was wrong about lack of oxygen during birth being a cause. Instead, he suggested that complications in birth were only a symptom.\n\nFreud hoped that his research would provide a solid scientific basis for his therapeutic technique. The goal of Freudian therapy, or psychoanalysis, was to bring repressed thoughts and feelings into consciousness in order to free the patient from suffering repetitive distorted emotions.\n\nClassically, the bringing of unconscious thoughts and feelings to consciousness is brought about by encouraging a patient to talk about dreams and engage in free association, in which patients report their thoughts without reservation and make no attempt to concentrate while doing so. Another important element of psychoanalysis is transference, the process by which patients displace onto their analysts feelings and ideas which derive from previous figures in their lives. Transference was first seen as a regrettable phenomenon that interfered with the recovery of repressed memories and disturbed patients' objectivity, but by 1912, Freud had come to see it as an essential part of the therapeutic process.\n\nThe origin of Freud's early work with psychoanalysis can be linked to Josef Breuer. Freud credited Breuer with opening the way to the discovery of the psychoanalytical method by his treatment of the case of Anna O. In November 1880, Breuer was called in to treat a highly intelligent 21-year-old woman (Bertha Pappenheim) for a persistent cough that he diagnosed as hysterical. He found that while nursing her dying father, she had developed a number of transitory symptoms, including visual disorders and paralysis and contractures of limbs, which he also diagnosed as hysterical. Breuer began to see his patient almost every day as the symptoms increased and became more persistent, and observed that she entered states of \"absence\". He found that when, with his encouragement, she told fantasy stories in her evening states of \"absence\" her condition improved, and most of her symptoms had disappeared by April 1881. Following the death of her father in that month her condition deteriorated again. Breuer recorded that some of the symptoms eventually remitted spontaneously, and that full recovery was achieved by inducing her to recall events that had precipitated the occurrence of a specific symptom. In the years immediately following Breuer's treatment, Anna O. spent three short periods in sanatoria with the diagnosis \"hysteria\" with \"somatic symptoms\", and some authors have challenged Breuer's published account of a cure. Richard Skues rejects this interpretation, which he sees as stemming from both Freudian and anti-psychoanalytical revisionism, that regards both Breuer's narrative of the case as unreliable and his treatment of Anna O. as a failure. Psychologist Frank Sulloway contends that \"Freud's case histories are rampant with censorship, distortions, highly dubious 'reconstructions,' and exaggerated claims.\"\n\nIn the early 1890s, Freud used a form of treatment based on the one that Breuer had described to him, modified by what he called his \"pressure technique\" and his newly developed analytic technique of interpretation and reconstruction. According to Freud's later accounts of this period, as a result of his use of this procedure most of his patients in the mid-1890s reported early childhood sexual abuse. He believed these stories, which he used as the basis for his seduction theory, but then he came to believe that they were fantasies. He explained these at first as having the function of \"fending off\" memories of infantile masturbation, but in later years he wrote that they represented Oedipal fantasies, stemming from innate drives that are sexual and destructive in nature.\n\nAnother version of events focuses on Freud's proposing that unconscious memories of infantile sexual abuse were at the root of the psychoneuroses in letters to Fliess in October 1895, before he reported that he had actually discovered such abuse among his patients. In the first half of 1896, Freud published three papers, which led to his seduction theory, stating that he had uncovered, in all of his current patients, deeply repressed memories of sexual abuse in early childhood. In these papers, Freud recorded that his patients were not consciously aware of these memories, and must therefore be present as \"unconscious memories\" if they were to result in hysterical symptoms or obsessional neurosis. The patients were subjected to considerable pressure to \"reproduce\" infantile sexual abuse \"scenes\" that Freud was convinced had been repressed into the unconscious. Patients were generally unconvinced that their experiences of Freud's clinical procedure indicated actual sexual abuse. He reported that even after a supposed \"reproduction\" of sexual scenes the patients assured him emphatically of their disbelief.\n\nAs well as his pressure technique, Freud's clinical procedures involved analytic inference and the symbolic interpretation of symptoms to trace back to memories of infantile sexual abuse. His claim of one hundred percent confirmation of his theory only served to reinforce previously expressed reservations from his colleagues about the validity of findings obtained through his suggestive techniques. Freud subsequently showed inconsistency as to whether his seduction theory was still compatible with his later findings. In an addendum to \"The Aetiology of Hysteria\" he stated: \"All this is true [the sexual abuse of children]; but it must be remembered that at the time I wrote it I had not yet freed myself from my overvaluation of reality and my low valuation of phantasy\". Some years later Freud explicitly rejected the claim of his colleague Ferenczi that his patients’ reports of sexual molestation were actual memories instead of fantasies, and he tried to dissuade Ferenczi from making his views public. Karin Ahbel-Rappe concludes in her study \"'I no longer believe': did Freud abandon the seduction theory?’’: \"Freud marked out and started down a trail of investigation into the nature of the experience of infantile incest and its impact on the human psyche, and then abandoned this direction for the most part.\"\n\nAs a medical researcher, Freud was an early user and proponent of cocaine as a stimulant as well as analgesic. He believed that cocaine was a cure for many mental and physical problems, and in his 1884 paper \"On Coca\" he extolled its virtues. Between 1883 and 1887 he wrote several articles recommending medical applications, including its use as an antidepressant. He narrowly missed out on obtaining scientific priority for discovering its anesthetic properties of which he was aware but had mentioned only in passing. (Karl Koller, a colleague of Freud's in Vienna, received that distinction in 1884 after reporting to a medical society the ways cocaine could be used in delicate eye surgery.) Freud also recommended cocaine as a cure for morphine addiction. He had introduced cocaine to his friend Ernst von Fleischl-Marxow who had become addicted to morphine taken to relieve years of excruciating nerve pain resulting from an infection acquired while performing an autopsy. His claim that Fleischl-Marxow was cured of his addiction was premature, though he never acknowledged he had been at fault. Fleischl-Marxow developed an acute case of \"cocaine psychosis\", and soon returned to using morphine, dying a few years later after more suffering from intolerable pain.\n\nThe application as an anesthetic turned out to be one of the few safe uses of cocaine, and as reports of addiction and overdose began to filter in from many places in the world, Freud's medical reputation became somewhat tarnished.\n\nAfter the \"Cocaine Episode\" Freud ceased to publicly recommend use of the drug, but continued to take it himself occasionally for depression, migraine and nasal inflammation during the early 1890s, before discontinuing in 1896.\n\nThe concept of the unconscious was central to Freud's account of the mind. Freud believed that while poets and thinkers had long known of the existence of the unconscious, he had ensured that it received scientific recognition in the field of psychology. The concept made an informal appearance in Freud's writings.\n\nThe unconscious was first introduced in connection with the phenomenon of repression, to explain what happens to ideas that are repressed. Freud stated explicitly that the concept of the unconscious was based on the theory of repression. He postulated a cycle in which ideas are repressed, but remain in the mind, removed from consciousness yet operative, then reappear in consciousness under certain circumstances. The postulate was based upon the investigation of cases of traumatic hysteria, which revealed cases where the behavior of patients could not be explained without reference to ideas or thoughts of which they had no awareness. This fact, combined with the observation that such behavior could be artificially induced by hypnosis, in which ideas were inserted into people's minds, suggested that ideas were operative in the original cases, even though their subjects knew nothing of them.\n\nFreud, like Josef Breuer, found the hypothesis that hysterical manifestations were generated by ideas to be not only warranted, but given in observation. Disagreement between them arose when they attempted to give causal explanations of their data: Breuer favored a hypothesis of hypnoid states, while Freud postulated the mechanism of defense. Richard Wollheim comments that given the close correspondence between hysteria and the results of hypnosis, Breuer's hypothesis appears more plausible, and that it is only when repression is taken into account that Freud's hypothesis becomes preferable.\n\nFreud originally allowed that repression might be a conscious process, but by the time he wrote his second paper on the \"Neuro-Psychoses of Defence\" (1896), he apparently believed that repression, which he referred to as \"the psychical mechanism of (unconscious) defense\", occurred on an unconscious level. Freud further developed his theories about the unconscious in \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" (1899) and in \"Jokes and Their Relation to the Unconscious\" (1905), where he dealt with condensation and displacement as inherent characteristics of unconscious mental activity. Freud presented his first systematic statement of his hypotheses about unconscious mental processes in 1912, in response to an invitation from the London Society of Psychical Research to contribute to its \"Proceedings\". In 1915, Freud expanded that statement into a more ambitious metapsychological paper, entitled \"The Unconscious\". In both these papers, when Freud tried to distinguish between his conception of the unconscious and those that predated psychoanalysis, he found it in his postulation of ideas that are simultaneously latent and operative.\n\nFreud believed that the function of dreams is to preserve sleep by representing as fulfilled wishes that would otherwise awaken the dreamer.\n\nIn Freud's theory dreams are instigated by the daily occurrences and thoughts of everyday life. His claim that they function as wish fulfillments is based on an account of the \"dreamwork\" in terms of a transformation of \"secondary process\" thought, governed by the rules of language and the reality principle, into the \"primary process\" of unconscious thought governed by the pleasure principle, wish gratification and the repressed sexual scenarios of childhood.\n\nIn order to preserve sleep the dreamwork disguises the repressed or \"latent\" content of the dream in an interplay of words and images which Freud describes in terms of condensation, displacement and distortion. This produces the \"manifest content\" of the dream as recounted in the dream narrative. For Freud an unpleasant manifest content may still represent the fulfilment of a wish on the level of the latent content. In the clinical setting Freud encouraged free association to the dream's manifest content in order to facilitate access to its latent content. Freud believed interpreting dreams in this way could provide important insights into the formation of neurotic symptoms and contribute to the mitigation of their pathological effects.\n\nFreud's theory of psychosexual development proposes that, following on from the initial polymorphous perversity of infantile sexuality, the sexual \"drives\" pass through the distinct developmental phases of the oral, the anal, and the phallic. Though these phases then give way to a latency stage of reduced sexual interest and activity (from the age of five to puberty, approximately), they leave, to a greater or lesser extent, a \"perverse\" and bisexual residue which persists during the formation of adult genital sexuality. Freud argued that neurosis or perversion could be explained in terms of fixation or regression to these phases whereas adult character and cultural creativity could achieve a sublimation of their perverse residue.\n\nAfter Freud's later development of the theory of the Oedipus complex this normative developmental trajectory becomes formulated in terms of the child's renunciation of incestuous desires under the phantasised threat of (or phantasised fact of, in the case of the girl) castration. The \"dissolution\" of the Oedipus complex is then achieved when the child's rivalrous identification with the parental figure is transformed into the pacifying identifications of the Ego ideal which assume both similarity and difference and acknowledge the separateness and autonomy of the other.\n\nFreud hoped to prove that his model was universally valid and turned to ancient mythology and contemporary ethnography for comparative material arguing that totemism reflected a ritualized enactment of a tribal Oedipal conflict.\n\nFreud proposed that the human psyche could be divided into three parts: Id, ego and super-ego. Freud discussed this model in the 1920 essay \"Beyond the Pleasure Principle\", and fully elaborated upon it in \"The Ego and the Id\" (1923), in which he developed it as an alternative to his previous topographic schema (i.e., conscious, unconscious and preconscious). The id is the completely unconscious, impulsive, childlike portion of the psyche that operates on the \"pleasure principle\" and is the source of basic impulses and drives; it seeks immediate pleasure and gratification.\n\nFreud acknowledged that his use of the term \"Id\" (\"das Es\", \"the It\") derives from the writings of Georg Groddeck. The super-ego is the moral component of the psyche, which takes into account no special circumstances in which the morally right thing may not be right for a given situation. The rational ego attempts to exact a balance between the impractical hedonism of the id and the equally impractical moralism of the super-ego; it is the part of the psyche that is usually reflected most directly in a person's actions. When overburdened or threatened by its tasks, it may employ defence mechanisms including denial, repression, undoing, rationalization, and displacement. This concept is usually represented by the \"Iceberg Model\". This model represents the roles the Id, Ego, and Super Ego play in relation to conscious and unconscious thought.\n\nFreud compared the relationship between the ego and the id to that between a charioteer and his horses: the horses provide the energy and drive, while the charioteer provides direction.\n\nFreud believed that the human psyche is subject to two conflicting drives: the life drive or libido and the death drive. The life drive was also termed \"Eros\" and the death drive \"Thanatos\", although Freud did not use the latter term; \"Thanatos\" was introduced in this context by Paul Federn. Freud hypothesized that libido is a form of mental energy with which processes, structures and object-representations are invested.\n\nIn \"Beyond the Pleasure Principle\" (1920), Freud inferred the existence of a death drive. Its premise was a regulatory principle that has been described as \"the principle of psychic inertia\", \"the Nirvana principle\", and \"the conservatism of instinct\". Its background was Freud's earlier \"Project for a Scientific Psychology\", where he had defined the principle governing the mental apparatus as its tendency to divest itself of quantity or to reduce tension to zero. Freud had been obliged to abandon that definition, since it proved adequate only to the most rudimentary kinds of mental functioning, and replaced the idea that the apparatus tends toward a level of zero tension with the idea that it tends toward a minimum level of tension.\n\nFreud in effect readopted the original definition in \"Beyond the Pleasure Principle\", this time applying it to a different principle. He asserted that on certain occasions the mind acts as though it could eliminate tension entirely, or in effect to reduce itself to a state of extinction; his key evidence for this was the existence of the compulsion to repeat. Examples of such repetition included the dream life of traumatic neurotics and children's play. In the phenomenon of repetition, Freud saw a psychic trend to work over earlier impressions, to master them and derive pleasure from them, a trend was prior to the pleasure principle but not opposed to it. In addition to that trend, there was also a principle at work that was opposed to, and thus \"beyond\" the pleasure principle. If repetition is a necessary element in the binding of energy or adaptation, when carried to inordinate lengths it becomes a means of abandoning adaptations and reinstating earlier or less evolved psychic positions. By combining this idea with the hypothesis that all repetition is a form of discharge, Freud reached the conclusion that the compulsion to repeat is an effort to restore a state that is both historically primitive and marked by the total draining of energy: death.\n\nIn his 1917 essay \"Mourning and Melancholia\", Freud drew a distinction between mourning, painful but an inevitable part of life, and \"melancholia\", his term for pathological refusal of a mourner to \"decathect\" from the lost one. Freud claimed that, in normal mourning, the ego was responsible for narcissistically detaching the libido from the lost one as a means of self-preservation, but that in \"melancholia\", prior ambivalence towards the lost one prevents this from occurring. Suicide, Freud hypothesized, could result in extreme cases, when unconscious feelings of conflict became directed against the mourner's own ego.\n\nInitiating what became the first debate within psychoanalysis on femininity, Karen Horney of the Berlin Institute set out to challenge Freud's account of the development of feminine sexuality. Rejecting Freud's theories of the feminine castration complex and penis envy, Horney argued for a primary femininity and penis envy as a defensive formation rather than arising from the fact, or \"injury\", of biological asymmetry as Freud held. Horney had the influential support of Melanie Klein and Ernest Jones who coined the term \"phallocentrism\" in his critique of Freud's position.\n\nIn defending Freud against this critique, feminist scholar Jacqueline Rose has argued that it presupposes a more normative account of female sexual development than that given by Freud. She notes that Freud moved from a description of the little girl stuck with her 'inferiority' or 'injury' in the face of the anatomy of the little boy to an account in his later work which explicitly describes the process of becoming 'feminine' as an 'injury' or 'catastrophe' for the complexity of her earlier psychic and sexual life.\n\nAccording to Freud, \"Elimination of clitoral sexuality is a necessary precondition for the development of femininity, since it is immature and masculine in its nature.\" Freud postulated the concept of \"vaginal orgasm\" as separate from clitoral orgasm, achieved by external stimulation of the clitoris. In 1905, he stated that clitoral orgasms are purely an adolescent phenomenon and that, upon reaching puberty, the proper response of mature women is a change-over to vaginal orgasms, meaning orgasms without any clitoral stimulation. This theory has been criticized on the grounds that Freud provided no evidence for this basic assumption, and because it made many women feel inadequate when they could not achieve orgasm via vaginal intercourse alone.\n\nFreud regarded the monotheistic God as an illusion based upon the infantile emotional need for a powerful, supernatural pater familias. He maintained that religion – once necessary to restrain man's violent nature in the early stages of civilization – in modern times, can be set aside in favor of reason and science. \"Obsessive Actions and Religious Practices\" (1907) notes the likeness between faith (religious belief) and neurotic obsession. \"Totem and Taboo\" (1913) proposes that society and religion begin with the patricide and eating of the powerful paternal figure, who then becomes a revered collective memory. These arguments were further developed in \"The Future of an Illusion\" (1927) in which Freud argued that religious belief serves the function of psychological consolation. Freud argues the belief of a supernatural protector serves as a buffer from man's \"fear of nature\" just as the belief in an afterlife serves as a buffer from man's fear of death. The core idea of the work is that all of religious belief can be explained through its function to society, not for its relation to the truth. This is why, according to Freud, religious beliefs are \"illusions\". In \"Civilization and Its Discontents\" (1930), he quotes his friend Romain Rolland, who described religion as an \"oceanic sensation\", but says he never experienced this feeling. \"Moses and Monotheism\" (1937) proposes that Moses was the tribal pater familias, killed by the Jews, who psychologically coped with the patricide with a reaction formation conducive to their establishing monotheist Judaism; analogously, he described the Roman Catholic rite of Holy Communion as cultural evidence of the killing and devouring of the sacred father.\n\nMoreover, he perceived religion, with its suppression of violence, as mediator of the societal and personal, the public and the private, conflicts between Eros and Thanatos, the forces of life and death. Later works indicate Freud's pessimism about the future of civilization, which he noted in the 1931 edition of \"Civilization and its Discontents\".\n\nIn a footnote of his 1909 work, \"Analysis of a Phobia in a Five year old Boy\", Freud theorized that the universal fear of castration was provoked in the uncircumcised when they perceived circumcision and that this was \"the deepest unconscious root of anti-Semitism\".\n\nThough not the first methodology in the practice of individual verbal psychotherapy, Freud's psychoanalytic system came to dominate the field from early in the twentieth century, forming the basis for many later variants. While these systems have adopted different theories and techniques, all have followed Freud by attempting to achieve psychic and behavioral change through having patients talk about their difficulties. Psychoanalysis is not as influential as it once was in Europe and the United States, though in some parts of the world, notably Latin America, its influence in the later 20th century expanded substantially. Psychoanalysis also remains influential within many contemporary schools of psychotherapy and has led to innovative therapeutic work in schools and with families and groups. There is a substantial body of research which demonstrates the efficacy of the clinical methods of psychoanalysis and of related psychodynamic therapies in treating a wide range of psychological disorders.\n\nThe neo-Freudians, a group including Alfred Adler, Otto Rank, Karen Horney, Harry Stack Sullivan and Erich Fromm, rejected Freud's theory of instinctual drive, emphasized interpersonal relations and self-assertiveness, and made modifications to therapeutic practice that reflected these theoretical shifts. Adler originated the approach, although his influence was indirect due to his inability to systematically formulate his ideas. Neo-Freudian analysis places more emphasis on the patient's relationship with the analyst and less on exploration of the unconscious.\n\nCarl Jung believed that the collective unconscious, which reflects the cosmic order and the history of the human species, is the most important part of the mind. It contains archetypes, which are manifested in symbols that appear in dreams, disturbed states of mind, and various products of culture. Jungians are less interested in infantile development and psychological conflict between wishes and the forces that frustrate them than in integration between different parts of the person. The object of Jungian therapy was to mend such splits. Jung focused in particular on problems of middle and later life. His objective was to allow people to experience the split-off aspects of themselves, such as the anima (a man's suppressed female self), the animus (a woman's suppressed male self), or the shadow (an inferior self-image), and thereby attain wisdom.\n\nJacques Lacan approached psychoanalysis through linguistics and literature. Lacan believed that Freud's essential work had been done prior to 1905 and concerned the interpretation of dreams, neurotic symptoms, and slips, which had been based on a revolutionary way of understanding language and its relation to experience and subjectivity, and that ego psychology and object relations theory were based upon misreadings of Freud's work. For Lacan, the determinative dimension of human experience is neither the self (as in ego psychology) nor relations with others (as in object relations theory), but language. Lacan saw desire as more important than need and considered it necessarily ungratifiable.\n\nWilhelm Reich developed ideas that Freud had developed at the beginning of his psychoanalytic investigation but then superseded but never finally discarded. These were the concept of the Actualneurosis and a theory of anxiety based upon the idea of dammed-up libido. In Freud's original view, what really happened to a person (the \"actual\") determined the resulting neurotic disposition. Freud applied that idea both to infants and to adults. In the former case, seductions were sought as the causes of later neuroses and in the latter incomplete sexual release. Unlike Freud, Reich retained the idea that actual experience, especially sexual experience, was of key significance. By the 1920s, Reich had \"taken Freud's original ideas about sexual release to the point of specifying the orgasm as the criteria of healthy function.\" Reich was also \"developing his ideas about character into a form that would later take shape, first as \"muscular armour\", and eventually as a transducer of universal biological energy, the \"orgone\".\"\n\nFritz Perls, who helped to develop Gestalt therapy, was influenced by Reich, Jung and Freud. The key idea of gestalt therapy is that Freud overlooked the structure of awareness, \"an active process that moves toward the construction of organized meaningful wholes... between an organism and its environment.\" These wholes, called \"gestalts\", are \"patterns involving all the layers of organismic function – thought, feeling, and activity.\" Neurosis is seen as splitting in the formation of gestalts, and anxiety as the organism sensing \"the struggle towards its creative unification.\" Gestalt therapy attempts to cure patients through placing them in contact with \"immediate organismic needs.\" Perls rejected the verbal approach of classical psychoanalysis; talking in gestalt therapy serves the purpose of self-expression rather than gaining self-knowledge. Gestalt therapy usually takes place in groups, and in concentrated \"workshops\" rather than being spread out over a long period of time; it has been extended into new forms of communal living.\n\nArthur Janov's primal therapy, which has been an influential post-Freudian psychotherapy, resembles psychoanalytic therapy in its emphasis on early childhood experience, but has also differences with it. While Janov's theory is akin to Freud's early idea of Actualneurosis, he does not have a dynamic psychology but a nature psychology like that of Reich or Perls, in which need is primary while wish is derivative and dispensable when need is met. Despite its surface similarity to Freud's ideas, Janov's theory lacks a strictly psychological account of the unconscious and belief in infantile sexuality. While for Freud there was a hierarchy of danger situations, for Janov the key event in the child's life is awareness that the parents do not love it. Janov writes in \"The Primal Scream\" (1970) that primal therapy has in some ways returned to Freud's early ideas and techniques.\n\nEllen Bass and Laura Davis, co-authors of \"The Courage to Heal\" (1988), are described as \"champions of survivorship\" by Frederick Crews, who considers Freud the key influence upon them, although in his view they are indebted not to classic psychoanalysis but to \"the pre-psychoanalytic Freud... who supposedly took pity on his hysterical patients, found that they were all harboring memories of early abuse... and cured them by unknotting their repression.\" Crews sees Freud as having anticipated the recovered memory movement by emphasizing \"mechanical cause-and-effect relations between symptomatology and the premature stimulation of one body zone or another\", and with pioneering its \"technique of thematically matching a patient's symptom with a sexually symmetrical 'memory.'\" Crews believes that Freud's confidence in accurate recall of early memories anticipates the theories of recovered memory therapists such as Lenore Terr, which in his view have led to people being wrongfully imprisoned or involved in litigation.\n\nResearch projects designed to test Freud's theories empirically have led to a vast literature on the topic. American psychologists began to attempt to study repression in the experimental laboratory around 1930. In 1934, when the psychologist Saul Rosenzweig sent Freud reprints of his attempts to study repression, Freud responded with a dismissive letter stating that \"the wealth of reliable observations\" on which psychoanalytic assertions were based made them \"independent of experimental verification.\" Seymour Fisher and Roger P. Greenberg concluded in 1977 that some of Freud's concepts were supported by empirical evidence. Their analysis of research literature supported Freud's concepts of oral and anal personality constellations, his account of the role of Oedipal factors in certain aspects of male personality functioning, his formulations about the relatively greater concern about loss of love in women's as compared to men's personality economy, and his views about the instigating effects of homosexual anxieties on the formation of paranoid delusions. They also found limited and equivocal support for Freud's theories about the development of homosexuality. They found that several of Freud's other theories, including his portrayal of dreams as primarily containers of secret, unconscious wishes, as well as some of his views about the psychodynamics of women, were either not supported or contradicted by research. Reviewing the issues again in 1996, they concluded that much experimental data relevant to Freud's work exists, and supports some of his major ideas and theories.\n\nOther viewpoints include those of Hans Eysenck, who writes in \"Decline and Fall of the Freudian Empire\" (1985) that Freud set back the study of psychology and psychiatry \"by something like fifty years or more\", and Malcolm Macmillan, who concludes in \"Freud Evaluated\" (1991) that \"Freud's method is not capable of yielding objective data about mental processes\". Morris Eagle states that it has been \"demonstrated quite conclusively that because of the epistemologically contaminated status of clinical data derived from the clinical situation, such data have questionable probative value in the testing of psychoanalytic hypotheses\". Richard Webster, in \"Why Freud Was Wrong\" (1995), described psychoanalysis as perhaps the most complex and successful pseudoscience in history. Crews believes that psychoanalysis has no scientific or therapeutic merit.\n\nI.B. Cohen regards Freud's \"Interpretation of Dreams\" as a revolutionary work of science, the last such work to be published in book form.\nIn contrast Allan Hobson believes that Freud, by rhetorically discrediting 19th century investigators of dreams such as Alfred Maury and the Marquis de Hervey de Saint-Denis at a time when study of the physiology of the brain was only beginning, interrupted the development of scientific dream theory for half a century. The dream researcher G. William Domhoff has disputed claims of Freudian dream theory being validated.\n\nThe philosopher Karl Popper, who argued that all proper scientific theories must be potentially falsifiable, claimed that Freud's psychoanalytic theories were presented in unfalsifiable form, meaning that no experiment could ever disprove them. The philosopher Adolf Grünbaum argues in \"The Foundations of Psychoanalysis\" (1984) that Popper was mistaken and that many of Freud's theories are empirically testable, a position with which others such as Eysenck agree. The philosopher Roger Scruton, writing in \"Sexual Desire\" (1986), also rejected Popper's arguments, pointing to the theory of repression as an example of a Freudian theory that does have testable consequences. Scruton nevertheless concluded that psychoanalysis is not genuinely scientific, on the grounds that it involves an unacceptable dependence on metaphor. The philosopher Donald Levy agrees with Grünbaum that Freud's theories are falsifiable but disputes Grünbaum's contention that therapeutic success is only the empirical basis on which they stand or fall, arguing that a much wider range of empirical evidence can be adduced if clinical case material is taken into consideration.\n\nIn a study of psychoanalysis in the United States, Nathan Hale reported on the \"decline of psychoanalysis in psychiatry\" during the years 1965–1985. The continuation of this trend was noted by Alan Stone: \"As academic psychology becomes more 'scientific' and psychiatry more biological, psychoanalysis is being brushed aside.\" Paul Stepansky, while noting that psychoanalysis remains influential in the humanities, records the \"vanishingly small number of psychiatric residents who choose to pursue psychoanalytic training\" and the \"nonanalytic backgrounds of psychiatric chairpersons at major universities\" among the evidence he cites for his conclusion that \"Such historical trends attest to the marginalisation of psychoanalysis within American psychiatry.\" Nonetheless Freud was ranked as the third most cited psychologist of the 20th century, according to a \"Review of General Psychology\" survey of American psychologists and psychology texts, published in 2002. It is also claimed that in moving beyond the \"orthodoxy of the not so distant past...new ideas and new research has led to an intense reawakening of interest in psychoanalysis from neighbouring disciplines ranging from the humanities to neuroscience and including the non-analytic therapies\".\nResearch in the emerging field of neuropsychoanalysis, founded by neuroscientist and psychoanalyst Mark Solms, has proved controversial with some psychoanalysts criticising the very concept itself. Solms and his colleagues have argued for neuro-scientific findings being \"broadly consistent\" with Freudian theories pointing out brain structures relating to Freudian concepts such as libido, drives, the unconscious, and repression. Neuroscientists who have endorsed Freud's work include David Eagleman who believes that Freud \"transformed psychiatry\" by providing \" the first exploration of the way in which hidden states of the brain participate in driving thought and behavior\" and Nobel laureate Eric Kandel who argues that \"psychoanalysis still represents the most coherent and intellectually satisfying view of the mind.\"\n\nPsychoanalysis has been interpreted as both radical and conservative. By the 1940s, it had come to be seen as conservative by the European and American intellectual community. Critics outside the psychoanalytic movement, whether on the political left or right, saw Freud as a conservative. Fromm had argued that several aspects of psychoanalytic theory served the interests of political reaction in his \"The Fear of Freedom\" (1942), an assessment confirmed by sympathetic writers on the right. In \"\" (1959), Philip Rieff portrayed Freud as a man who urged men to make the best of an inevitably unhappy fate, and admirable for that reason. In the 1950s, Herbert Marcuse challenged the then prevailing interpretation of Freud as a conservative in \"Eros and Civilization\" (1955), as did Lionel Trilling in \"Freud and the Crisis of Our Culture\" and Norman O. Brown in \"Life Against Death\" (1959). \"Eros and Civilization\" helped make the idea that Freud and Karl Marx were addressing similar questions from different perspectives credible to the left. Marcuse criticized neo-Freudian revisionism for discarding seemingly pessimistic theories such as the death instinct, arguing that they could be turned in a utopian direction. Freud's theories also influenced the Frankfurt School and critical theory as a whole.\n\nFreud has been compared to Marx by Reich, who saw Freud's importance for psychiatry as parallel to that of Marx for economics, and by Paul Robinson, who sees Freud as a revolutionary whose contributions to twentieth century thought are comparable in importance to Marx's contributions to nineteenth century thought. Fromm calls Freud, Marx, and Einstein the \"architects of the modern age\", but rejects the idea that Marx and Freud were equally significant, arguing that Marx was both far more historically important and a finer thinker. Fromm nevertheless credits Freud with permanently changing the way human nature is understood. Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari write in \"Anti-Oedipus\" (1972) that psychoanalysis resembles the Russian Revolution in that it became corrupted almost from the beginning. They believe this began with Freud's development of the theory of the Oedipus complex, which they see as idealist.\n\nJean-Paul Sartre critiques Freud's theory of the unconscious in \"Being and Nothingness\" (1943), claiming that consciousness is essentially self-conscious. Sartre also attempts to adapt some of Freud's ideas to his own account of human life, and thereby develop an \"existential psychoanalysis\" in which causal categories are replaced by teleological categories. Maurice Merleau-Ponty considers Freud to be one of the anticipators of phenomenology, while Theodor W. Adorno considers Edmund Husserl, the founder of phenomenology, to be Freud's philosophical opposite, writing that Husserl's polemic against psychologism could have been directed against psychoanalysis. Paul Ricœur sees Freud as one of the three \"masters of suspicion\", alongside Marx and Nietzsche, for their unmasking 'the lies and illusions of consciousness'. Ricœur and Jürgen Habermas have helped create a \"hermeneutic version of Freud\", one which \"claimed him as the most significant progenitor of the shift from an objectifying, empiricist understanding of the human realm to one stressing subjectivity and interpretation.\" Louis Althusser drew on Freud's concept of overdetermination for his reinterpretation of Marx's \"Capital\". Jean-François Lyotard developed a theory of the unconscious that reverses Freud's account of the dream-work: for Lyotard, the unconscious is a force whose intensity is manifest via disfiguration rather than condensation. Jacques Derrida finds Freud to be both a late figure in the history of western metaphysics and, with Nietzsche and Heidegger, a precursor of his own brand of radicalism.\n\nSeveral scholars see Freud as parallel to Plato, writing that they hold nearly the same theory of dreams and have similar theories of the tripartite structure of the human soul or personality, even if the hierarchy between the parts of the soul is almost reversed. Ernest Gellner argues that Freud's theories are an inversion of Plato's. Whereas Plato saw a hierarchy inherent in the nature of reality, and relied upon it to validate norms, Freud was a naturalist who could not follow such an approach. Both men's theories drew a parallel between the structure of the human mind and that of society, but while Plato wanted to strengthen the super-ego, which corresponded to the aristocracy, Freud wanted to strengthen the ego, which corresponded to the middle class. Paul Vitz compares Freudian psychoanalysis to Thomism, noting St. Thomas's belief in the existence of an \"unconscious consciousness\" and his \"frequent use of the word and concept 'libido' – sometimes in a more specific sense than Freud, but always in a manner in agreement with the Freudian use.\" Vitz suggests that Freud may have been unaware that his theory of the unconscious was reminiscent of Aquinas.\n\nThe poem \"In Memory of Sigmund Freud\" was published by British poet W. H. Auden in his 1940 collection \"Another Time\".\n\nLiterary critic Harold Bloom has been influenced by Freud. Camille Paglia has also been influenced by Freud, whom she calls \"Nietzsche's heir\" and one of the greatest sexual psychologists in literature, but has rejected the scientific status of his work in her \"Sexual Personae\" (1990), writing, \"Freud has no rivals among his successors because they think he wrote science, when in fact he wrote art.\"\n\nThe decline in Freud's reputation has been attributed partly to the revival of feminism. Simone de Beauvoir criticizes psychoanalysis from an existentialist standpoint in \"The Second Sex\" (1949), arguing that Freud saw an \"original superiority\" in the male that is in reality socially induced. Betty Friedan criticizes Freud and what she considered his Victorian view of women in \"The Feminine Mystique\" (1963). Freud's concept of penis envy was attacked by Kate Millett, who in \"Sexual Politics\" (1970) accused him of confusion and oversights. Naomi Weisstein writes that Freud and his followers erroneously thought that his \"years of intensive clinical experience\" added up to scientific rigor.\n\nFreud is also criticized by Shulamith Firestone and Eva Figes. In \"The Dialectic of Sex\" (1970), Firestone argues that Freud was a \"poet\" who produced metaphors rather than literal truths; in her view, Freud, like feminists, recognized that sexuality was the crucial problem of modern life, but ignored the social context and failed to question society itself. Firestone interprets Freud's \"metaphors\" in terms of the facts of power within the family. Figes tries in \"Patriarchal Attitudes\" (1970) to place Freud within a \"history of ideas\". Juliet Mitchell defends Freud against his feminist critics in \"Psychoanalysis and Feminism\" (1974), accusing them of misreading him and misunderstanding the implications of psychoanalytic theory for feminism. Mitchell helped introduce English-speaking feminists to Lacan. Mitchell is criticized by Jane Gallop in \"The Daughter's Seduction\" (1982). Gallop compliments Mitchell for her criticism of feminist discussions of Freud, but finds her treatment of Lacanian theory lacking.\n\nSome French feminists, among them Julia Kristeva and Luce Irigaray, have been influenced by Freud as interpreted by Lacan. Irigaray has produced a theoretical challenge to Freud and Lacan, using their theories against them to put forward a \"psychoanalytic explanation for theoretical bias\". Irigaray, who claims that \"the cultural unconscious only recognizes the male sex\", describes how this affects \"accounts of the psychology of women\".\n\nPsychologist Carol Gilligan writes that \"The penchant of developmental theorists to project a masculine image, and one that appears frightening to women, goes back at least to Freud.\" She sees Freud's criticism of women's sense of justice reappearing in the work of Jean Piaget and Lawrence Kohlberg. Gilligan notes that Nancy Chodorow, in contrast to Freud, attributes sexual difference not to anatomy but to the fact that male and female children have different early social environments. Chodorow, writing against the masculine bias of psychoanalysis, \"replaces Freud's negative and derivative description of female psychology with a positive and direct account of her own.\"\n\nToril Moi has developed a feminist perspective on psychoanalysis proposing that it is a discourse that \"attempts to understand the psychic consequences of three universal traumas: the fact that there are others, the fact of sexual difference, and the fact of death\". She replaces Freud's term of castration with Stanley Cavell's concept of \"victimization\" which is a more universal term that applies equally to both sexes. Moi regards this concept of human finitude as a suitable replacement for both castration and sexual difference as the traumatic \"discovery of our separate, sexed, mortal existence\" and how both men and women come to terms with it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud\". Trans. from the German under the general editorship of James Strachey, in collaboration with Anna Freud, assisted by Alix Strachey, Alan Tyson, and Angela Richards. 24 volumes, London: Hogarth Press and the Institute of Psycho-Analysis, 1953–1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "5559055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5559055", "title": "Stambha", "text": "Stambha\n\nStambha (also spelled as Skambha) - is used to denote pillar or column. In the context of Jain & Hindu mythology, it is believed to be a cosmic column which functions as a bond, which joins the heaven (Svarga) and the earth (Prithvi). A number of Hindu scriptures, including the \"Atharva Veda\", have references to Stambha. In the \"Atharva Veda\", a celestial stambha has been described as an infinite scaffold, which supports the cosmos and material creation.\n\nStambha was and is also used in the context of Indian architecture. Different Stambhas serve different purpose, including the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2336754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336754", "title": "Supreme Muslim Council", "text": "Supreme Muslim Council\n\nThe Supreme Muslim Council (SMC) (in Arabic المجلس الإسلامي الاعلى) was the highest body in charge of Muslim community affairs in Mandatory Palestine under British control. It was established to create an advisory body composed of Muslims and Christians with whom the High Commissioner could consult. The Muslim leaders, however, sought to create an independent council to supervise the religious affairs of its community, especially in matters relating to religious trusts (waqf) and shariah courts. The British acceded to these proposals and formed the SMC which controlled waqf funds, the orphan funds, and shariah courts, and responsible for appointing teachers and preachers. The SMC continued to exist until January 1951, when it was dissolved by Jordan and its function transferred to the Jordanian Ministry of Awqaf.\n\nA SMC was reconstituted in the occupied territories in 1967 as the judicial authority of the Muslim community in Israel in matters of personal status of its members under Israel's confessional community system.\n\nThere are several Supreme Muslim Councils which administer Muslim affairs in several countries, for example in the Russian Federation and Kenya.\n\nThe High Commissioner of Palestine, Herbert Samuel, issued an order in December 1921 (in anticipation of the start of the British Mandate of Palestine, which did not start till September 1923) establishing a Supreme Muslim Council with authority over all the Muslim waqfs and sharia courts in Palestine. It was to consist of five members - a president and four members, two of whom were to represent the Ottoman district of Jerusalem and the remaining two to represent the Ottoman districts of Nablus and Acre. All were to be paid from government and waqf funds. The SMC had a budget of £50,000. \n\nAt the first election, held on 9 January 1922, the fifty-three former electors to the last Ottoman parliament, elected Hajj Amīn al-Husseini as president, by a vote of 40 out of 47. The other members were Muhammad Effendi Murad, 'Abd al-Latif Bey Salah, Sa'id al-Shawa and 'Abd al-Latif al-Dajani. Amin al-Husayni had previously been made Grand Mufti of Jerusalem by Samuel following the death of his half-brother, Kamil al-Husayni, on 31 March 1921. Amīn al-Tamīmī was appointed as acting president when Amīn al-Husayni was abroad, The secretaries appointed were ‘Abdallah Shafĩq and Muhammad al’Afĩfĩ and from 1928-1930 the secretary was Amin's relative Jamāl al-Husaynī, Sa’d al Dīn al-Khaţīb and later another of the Amīn al-Husayni's relatives ‘Alī al-Husaynī, ‘Ajaj Nuwayhid, a Druze was an adviser. \n\nIn 1924, the SMC accepted Hussein bin Ali, the Sharif of Mecca, as the custodian of Al Aqsa mosque. The custodianship then became a Hashemite legacy administered by consecutive Jordanian kings. The president of SMC had the powers of employment over all Muslim officials throughout Palestine. The Anglo American committee termed it a powerful political machine. Amin rarely delegated authority, and most of the SMC's executive work was carried out by Amīn al-Husayni. Nepotism and favoritism played a central part to Amīn al-Husayni's tenure as president of the SMC.\n\nSubsequent elections were held in 1926, 1929, and 1930, though the 1926 election was annulled by the High Court of Justice and its members chosen by the Mandatory government.\n\nThe Arab Higher Committee was established on 25 April 1936, after the start of the 1936-39 Arab revolt. Amin al-Husayni was president and included several member of the Supreme Muslim Council, including Jamal al-Husayni and Yaqub al-Ghusayn. The AHC was outlawed on 1 October 1937 following the assassination of the Acting District Commissioner for Galilee Lewis Yelland Andrews by Galilean members of the al-Qassam group on 26 September. The British commenced to arrest the members of the AHC, including members of the SMC who were on the AHC, but Amin al-Husayni fled the country to avoid arrest. Amin al-Husayni's position as president of the Supreme Muslim Council was terminated, but the SMC continued to function.\n\nThe SMC continued in existence under the British but was dissolved in 1948 after Jordan occupied Jerusalem. The Supreme Muslim Council was dismantled in January 1951 by Jordan, and all the Palestinian waqf (charitable institutions) and the juridical system was placed under the control of the Jordanian Ministry of Awqaf. The SMC had already been crippled by the loss of vast properties in areas that became the territory of Israel.\n\nThe Supreme Muslim Council was reconstituted in Jerusalem under Israeli rule after the Six-Day War in 1967. It is the judicial authority of the Muslim community in Israel in matters of personal status of its members under Israel's confessional community system.\n\nHasan Tahboub was the head of the SMC (1993–1998) and Minister of Waqf and Religious Affairs in the Palestinian Authority (1994–1998). In 2006, Na'if Rajoub was the Palestinian minister in charge of the Waqf.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1222092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222092", "title": "Tarpeia", "text": "Tarpeia\n\nIn Roman mythology, Tarpeia , daughter of the Roman commander Spurius Tarpeius, was a Vestal virgin who betrayed the city of Rome to the Sabines at the time of their women's abduction for what she thought would be a reward of jewellery. She was instead crushed to death and her body cast from the southern cliff of Rome's Capitoline Hill, thereafter called Tarpeian Rock (\"Rupes Tarpeia\").\n\nThe legend tells that while Rome was besieged by the Sabine king Titus Tatius, Tarpeia, daughter of the commander of the citadel, Spurius Tarpeius, approached the Sabine camp and offered them entry to the city in exchange for \"what they bore on their left arms\". Greedy for gold, she had meant their bracelets, but instead the Sabines threw their shields—carried on the left arm—upon her, crushing her to death. Her body was then hurled from (or, according to some accounts, buried at) a steep cliff of the southern summit of the Capitoline Hill. The Sabines were however unable to conquer the Forum, its gates miraculously protected by boiling jets of water created by Janus.\n\nThe legend was depicted in 89 BC by Sabinus following the Civil Wars as well as on a silver denarius of the Emperor Augustus in approximately 20 BC. Tarpeia would later become a symbol of betrayal and greed in Rome. The cliff from which she was thrown was named the Tarpeian Rock, and would become the place of execution for Rome's most notorious traitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6771496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6771496", "title": "Vitalism (Jainism)", "text": "Vitalism (Jainism)\n\nVitalism is at the core of Jain philosophy which separates \"Jiva\" (soul or life) from \"Ajiva\" (non-soul). According to Jain cosmology, whole universe is made up of six simple substances and is therefore eternal. These six substances (dravya) are:-\n\n\"Jiva\" or soul is distinguished from the rest five (termed \"Ajiva\") on account of the quality of intelligence with which it is endowed and of which the other substances are devoid.\n\nAccording to Jainism, there are ten vitalities or life-principles:-\n\nThe table below summarizes the vitalities that living beings possess in accordance with their senses.\n\nAccording to major Jain text, Tattvarthsutra: \"The severance of vitalities out of passion is injury\".\n\nBecause life is to be considered sacred and in every living thing, Jains avoid killing any living creature. They are not only vegetarian, but decline to eat vegetables that grow under the ground because each underground stem contains infinite number of vitalities each of that can potentially grow into full-fledged plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "39808506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39808506", "title": "Wa alaykumu s-salam", "text": "Wa alaykumu s-salam\n\nWa alaykumu as-salam or Wa ‘alaykum al-salaam () is an Arabic greeting often used by Muslims around the world translating nearly to \"And unto you peace\", but is often considered the equivalent to \"hello\" or \"good day\" in English. It is the standard response to the As-salamu alaykum () greeting. The greetings are intentional communications to acknowledge someone's presence, or to make someone feel welcomed. They are used prior to a conversation and are said to be good manners. The greeting is considered an important Islamic duty and obligation. Salam has been a standard salutation among Muslims. The greeting is regularly exchanged during Muslim lectures and sermons. Extended forms include \"Wa alaykumu s-salam wa rahmatullah\" (, May the peace and mercy of Allah be with you too) and \"Wa alaykumu s-salam wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuh\" (, May the peace, mercy, and blessings of Allah be with you too).\n\n\"Salam\" literally means \"peace\". The word \"Islam\" is also derived from it. In a wider sense \"salam\" means harmlessness, safety and protection from evil and from faults. As-Salaam is also one of the Names of Allah.\n\nReligious scholars differ as to whether Muslims may initiate the saying of Salaam to members of other faiths. The Quran says:\n\"When you are greeted with a greeting, greet in return with what is better than it, or (at least) return it equally\" [al-Nisa’ 4:86]\nTherefore, if a non-Muslim greets a Muslim, and says, \"As-salamu alaykum\", then the Muslim should say, \"Wa ‘alaykum al-salaam\". Replying to Salam is an Islamic duty.\n\nIt is also preferred to use the greeting when arriving and also when leaving. It was reported that Abu Hurayrah said “When one of you joins a gathering, let him say \"salaam\". When he wants to get up and leave, let him say \"salaam\". The former is not more important than the latter.” (Hasan hadith reported in Jāmi` al-Tirmidhi)\n\nAccording to hadith the Islamic prophet Muhammad was asked who should \"begin\" the salam greeting and he said:\n\nIt is also stated that one should give the Salam greeting upon entering a house. This is based upon the verse of the Qur'an:\n\n"}
{"id": "44570335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44570335", "title": "Young Advocates for Fair Education", "text": "Young Advocates for Fair Education\n\nYoung Advocates for Fair Education is an advocacy group dedicated to improving secular education in ultra-Orthodox Jewish (especially Hasidic) schools. The group advocates for curricular changes within schools, in compliance with New York State law. \n\nYAFFED was founded by Naftuli Moster, a former member of Brooklyn's Belz Hasidic community. Moster grew up in Borough Park, Brooklyn, one of 17 children in a Hasidic family. Yiddish was his first language. He attended Yeshiva in Borough Park where secular studies were almost non-existent.\n\nThe primary aim of YAFFED is to advocate for improved secular studies programs in local Hasidic yeshivas. Under the organization's understanding of New York State law, local superintendents are required to ensure that local yeshivas provide curricula that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the public schools. According to The New York Jewish Week, while public schools are required to provide at least five hours of education per day, many Hasidic yeshivas only provide 90 minutes of secular education per day to boys, and no secular education to them at all after the age of about 13.\n\nAccording to Moster, YAFFED's strategy has been \"to get people from within the Hasidic community to speak up and demand a change in the current education system, where 14-year-olds spend 14 hours a day without learning a single word of English, math, science, history, or geography\".\n\nThe Jerusalem Post has noted that YAFFED is one of several Jewish activist organizations around the globe, including Israel, the U.S., U.K., Canada, and Belgium, who are working towards having Hasidic yeshivas meet the general standards of secular education.\n\nYAFFED has advertised its mission by use of billboard advertisements and social media campaigns. One billboard quoted a Mishnaic source alongside the message: \"It's your mitzvah. It's the law.\"\n\nYAFFED is currently exploring legal avenues through which to pressure schools to improve secular education.\n\nIn the summer of 2015, YAFFED organized a letter writing campaign directed at district superintendents and the NYS Department of Education to inform them of serious concerns regarding the education in numerous Hasidic Yeshivas. The DOE subsequently announced an investigation into the matter. \n\nYAFFED has stated that if it does not receive an adequate response from the local government, it will explore taking the matter to civil court. YAFFED is seeking to represent parents from within the communities who have children currently enrolled in the schools.\n\nAccording to the Jewish Week, a spokesman for Attorney General Schneiderman declined to comment because the issue might \"be the subject of future litigation\". The New York State Department of Education referred the matter to New York City's Education Department.\n\nThe NYC Department of Education (DOE) announced in 2015 it would investigate allegations that nearly 40 ultra-Orthodox Jewish schools, or yeshivas, in NYC were failing to meet state education requirements. But nine months later the DOE refused to provide any evidence that the investigation had actually begun. Thereafter YAFFED began an \"evidence drive\" collecting materials from \"yeshiva graduates of Hasidic yeshivas and parents of current yeshiva students\" that would demonstrate whether Hasidic schools in NY are meeting state-mandated secular education requirements.YAFFED states that it has already collected such materials as textbooks with certain subjects \"blacked out\", and report cards for boys of high school age that listed \"no secular subjects at all\".\n\nFor the people in the Orthodox Jewish community, YAFFED is viewed as controversial because it works outside of the religious community's power structure. \"Ami Magazine\", an ultra-Orthodox weekly magazine published internationally, apologized for publishing a YAFFED advertisement.\n\nThe Jewish Week reported that the major Haredi umbrella organizations, as well as some local yeshivas, have declined to comment on the issue. The paper interviewed local community members in support of the organization's efforts, but those interviewed spoke on condition of anonymity, for fear of community backlash.\n\nThe members in the Hasidic community have publicly responded to YAFFED by outlining their concerns over the effects on religious Jewish education by government intervention. Additionally, community members expressed concern over additional costs being placed on yeshivas and parents, and have pointed to failings of the public school system, rather than yeshiva education requirements, as being a more of a concern for government.\n\nYAFFED has responded by pointing out the degree to which critics agree that the lack of secular education Hasidic schools is seriously lacking and challenging the funding argument.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7527710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7527710", "title": "É (temple)", "text": "É (temple)\n\nÉ (Cuneiform: ) is the Sumerian word or symbol for house or temple.\n\nThe Sumerian term É.GAL (\"palace\", literally \"big house\") denoted a city's main building. É.LUGAL (\"king's house\") was used synonymously. In the texts of Lagash, the É.GAL is the center of the ensi's administration of the city, and the site of the city archives.\nSumerian É.GAL \"palace\" is the probable etymology of Semitic words for \"palace, temple\", such as Hebrew היכל \"heikhal\", and Arabic هيكل \"haykal\". It has thus been speculated that the word É originated from something akin to *hai or *ˀai, especially since the cuneiform sign È is used for /a/ in Eblaite.\n\nThe term temen appearing frequently after É in names of ziggurats is translated as \"foundation pegs\", apparently the first step in the construction process of a house; compare, for example, verses 551–561 of the account of the construction of E-ninnu:\n\"Temen\" has been occasionally compared to Greek \"temenos\" \"holy precinct\", but since the latter has a well established Indo-European etymology (see temple), the comparison is either mistaken, or at best describes a case of popular etymology or convergence.\n\nIn \"E-temen-an-ki\", \"the temple of the foundation (pegs) of heaven and earth\", \"temen\" has been taken to refer to an axis mundi connecting earth to heaven (thus re-enforcing the Tower of Babel connection), but the term re-appears in several other temple names, referring to their physical stability rather than, or as well as, to a mythological world axis; compare the Egyptian notion of Djed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
