{"id": "52495154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52495154", "title": "Angelo of Tolentino", "text": "Angelo of Tolentino\n\nAngelo of Tolentino was a 13th-century Franciscan missionary.\n\nHe was jailed for excessive condemnation of luxury and after being released through the intervention of Raymond Godefroy, a new minister general who sympathized with the Spiritualists, he traveled with Angelo da Clareno, Marco da Montelupone, Pietro da Macerata, and Thomas of Tolentino to missionize in Lesser Armenia in 1289.\n\n"}
{"id": "14923840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14923840", "title": "Artur Carlos de Barros Basto", "text": "Artur Carlos de Barros Basto\n\nArtur Carlos de Barros Basto (; Abraham Israel Ben-Rosh) was born December 18, 1887 in Amarante, Portugal, and died in Porto on March 8, 1961. He made a career in the military and as a writer, who published several works related to Judaism. He was an important Jewish leader and one of the people who established the Jewish Community in Porto and assisted the construction of the Kadoorie Synagogue, the biggest Synagogue in Iberian Peninsula. Furthermore, he helped the return of Crypto-Jews to the Jewish people and, during World War II, helped Jewish refugees escape the Holocaust.\n\nWhen Barros Basto was still young his dying grandfather revealed to him that he had Jewish ancestors. His family had not kept the Jewish precepts and so he became aware of the existence of Jews in Portugal only in 1904; the year he read a newspaper article referring to the inauguration of the synagogue Shaaré Tikva, in Lisbon.\n\nYears later, he joined the army, and when ordered to attend a course at the Escola Politécnica de Lisboa (Technical School of Lisbon), the young Barros Basto went to the synagogue of the city in an attempt to be admitted there. The leaders of the synagogue didn’t give him permission but Barros Basto wouldn’t give up.\n\nWhen the Republic was established in 1910 Barros Bastos was the one who raised the Republican flag in the city of Porto.\n\nDuring the First World War, as a lieutenant of the army he commanded a battalion of the Portuguese Expeditionary Corps in the front of Flanders. For his acts of bravery and honor on the battlefield he was awarded medals and promoted to captain.\n\nBarros Basto was self-taught, and after learning Hebrew he lived for a while in Morocco where he began a formal process of conversion to Judaism (known in Hebrew as Giur). This process completed when he was circumcised in Tangier and later subjected to a rabbinical court (Beit Din). After which he changed his name to Abraham Israel Ben-Rosh.\n\nBack in Lisbon, he married Lea Israel Montero Azancot, of the Jewish Community of Lisbon, from whom he had a son and a daughter. He also had several grandchildren and great-grandchildren, his granddaughter Isabel Ferreira Lopes, is the current vice president of the Jewish Community of Porto. He is also great-granduncle of the actress Daniela Ruah.\n\nIn 1921 he returned to Porto with his wife. At that time Barros Basto realized that there were less than twenty Ashkenazi Jews living in the city. As there wasn’t a synagogue in Porto these Jews were not organized and had to travel to Lisbon for religious purposes whenever necessary.\n\nUpon learning that reality he began to think about building a synagogue and took initiative in 1923, by officially registering the Jewish Community of the Porto and the Israelite Theological Center in the City Council of Porto.\n\nThe current building of the synagogue was built years later but the community was organized and rented a house on the street Elias Garcia, which started to function as a synagogue. As time went on, more and more people started to appear in the synagogue. They said they were descendants of Jews forced to convert in the 15th century and claimed to maintain alive yet some Jewish practices and rituals, in the secrecy of their homes. These people, the crypto-Jews, began to participate in religious services.\n\nIn 1927, he founded and directed the Portuguese Jewish Newspaper called Ha-Lapid.\n\nThe claims of the crypto-Jews were proved true by Barros Basto and the committee of London, who found that they did not lie about their origins since they proved to still keep prayers to Hashem and respect the Sabbath as their ancestors. It should also be noted that on the Act n. º 68 Directorate (Maâmad) of the Jewish Community of Porto it was written that anyone who could \"absolutely prove their Jewish origin.\" would be admitted into the congregation.\n\nThis occurrence sparked Barros Basto’s interest, who therefore, decided to visit frequently the villages and towns of the Trás os Montes and Beiras regions, looking for more people interested in returning to Judaism. This measure gained the attention of some people, especially some Jewish communities, as is the case of the Community of Portuguese Jews in London, who created the \"Portuguese Marranos Committee\", an organization dedicated to help people who wanted to return to Judaism.\n\nWith the change of regime in the 1930s, Barros Basto was associated with the opposition, and was soon being chased by the army. He started to be placed in locations farther away from Porto, in an attempt to push him away from the Synagogue and the Community.\n\nIn 1937, Barros Basto was adjudicated by the Disciplinary Board of the Army and was dismissed from the institution for allegedly participating in circumcision ceremonies (in Hebrew, brit milah) of the students of the Israelite Theological Institute of Porto, which the Council considered \"immoral\" act, which is actually a fundamental practice for the Jewish people.\n\nA year later, in 1938, Barros Basto saw the inauguration of his great project, the Kadoorie Synagogue in Porto. Its construction was started in 1929 when Barros Basto was able to gather funds to buy land and build. This became the headquarters of the Jewish Community of Porto and still retains its religious functions.\n\nDuring World War II, having been already dismissed from the army, Barros Basto helped hundreds of Jews escape the war and the Holocaust, allowing them to start a new life elsewhere. Recently the Jewish Community of Porto signed a protocol with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in order to provide it with thousands of documents and records of individual refugees, who with the help of Barros Basto could then rebuild their lives with a start point in Porto.\n\nHe died in 1961, and was, according to his wish, buried in Amarante, the city where he was born. He was wearing the uniform with which he always served his country. On his deathbed he said that one day there would be justice, but this justice only would come in 2012, over 50 years after his death.\n\nFollowing a petition presented to Parliament on 31 October 2011 by his granddaughter, Isabel Ferreira Lopes, the name of Barros Basto was rehabilitated to February 29, 2012.\n\nThe petition, which was approved unanimously by all political parties, presents the conclusion that Barros Basto’s dismissal from the army was a matter of political and religious segregation on account of being Jewish. \"Barros Basto was separated from the Army due to a general climate of animosity against him motivated by the fact of being a Jew\" - can be read in the document that the LUSA news agency had access to.\n\nIn turn, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic n. º 119/2012, of 10-08, urged the government to undertake a symbolic reintegration of Barros Basto in the Army, posthumously, \"by no means in a category lower than the person concerned would have been entitled to had he not been dismissed\"\n\nIsabel Ferreira Lopes, granddaughter of Barros Basto and Vice President of the Jewish Community of Porto stated to LUSA that after the rehabilitation of her grandfather’s memory, the next step was the rehabilitation of Porto’s synagogue: \"In the year of the rehabilitation of the founder of the Jewish Community of Porto the synagogue shall as well be rehabilitated.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43324373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43324373", "title": "Balbir Singh (scholar)", "text": "Balbir Singh (scholar)\n\nDr. Balbir Singh born in 1896 at Katra Garba Singh, Amritsar, was a Sikh scholar and brother of Bhai Vir Singh.\n\nHis father Dr Charan Singh expired at his early age of 12. He was brought up by his elder brother Vir Singh whom he called as his father. After his primary education in Amritsar he studied M.Sc. from Govt. College Lahore. He went to England and obtained his Ph.D. degree in Chemistry from University of London. In 1923 he returned to India.\n\nAfter coming back Singh did not join Govt. service as was arranged for him . He took up his first assignment as Principal of Cambridge Preparatory School at Dehradun in 1925 which he continued to serve till 1935. He joined as Director of P& S Bank in 1937. He was promoted to Managing Director in 1947 which post he continued to hold till 1960.\n\nSingh had lot of literary interests and wanted always to help his brother in his works. He started writing history of Singh Sabha Movement and published \"Charan Hari Visthar\" a life history of his family and father in two volumes. He also helped his brother Bhai Vir Singh in compilation of Guru Granth Kosh. He has been a scholar and author of many books on Sikh religious philosophy in Punjabi and English. He owned a large collection of rare books numbering about 1000 at his residence in Dehradun known as Panchbati, which has been converted into a memorial library and art gallery in his name. Some of his important published works are:\n\nIt is an encyclopaedic dictionary of Guru Granth Sahib. This was an important project started by him. He published the first volume in his lifetime and continue his work for the second volume till his death on 1 October 1974, when he had already given the second volume to press after final editing. Further Punjabi University Patiala has published four more volumes as per guidelines established by him. A quarterly literary magazine \"Panchbati Sandesh\" was also started by him, which has been continued by her daughter Mohinder Kaur and subsequently by Punjabi University Patiala.Balbir Singh Sahitya Kendra a memorial library and art gallery has been established at the residence of Singh in Dehradun which has been donated to Punjabi University Patiala. The work of publishing remaining volumes on Nirukat has been entrusted to this library.\n"}
{"id": "43795924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43795924", "title": "Bhatt Balh", "text": "Bhatt Balh\n\nBhatt Balh was a Sikh Brahmin bard in the court of Guru Arjan, whose five hymns are present in \"Guru Granth Sahib\", the holy book of Sikhs. The title Bhatt is given to learned Brahmins.\n"}
{"id": "1227385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227385", "title": "Buddhist calendar", "text": "Buddhist calendar\n\nThe Buddhist calendar is a set of lunisolar calendars primarily used in mainland Southeast Asian countries of Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Thailand as well as in Sri Lanka and Chinese populations of Malaysia and Singapore for religious or official occasions. While the calendars share a common lineage, they also have minor but important variations such as intercalation schedules, month names and numbering, use of cycles, etc. In Thailand, the name Buddhist Era is a year numbering system shared by the traditional Thai lunisolar calendar and by the Thai solar calendar.\n\nThe Southeast Asian lunisolar calendars are largely based on an older version of the Hindu calendar, which uses the sidereal year as the solar year. One major difference is that the Southeast Asian systems, unlike their Indian cousins, do not use apparent reckoning to stay in sync with the sidereal year. Instead, they employ their versions of the Metonic cycle. However, since the Metonic cycle is not very accurate for sidereal years, the Southeast Asian calendar is slowly drifting out of sync with the sidereal, approximately one day every 100 years. Yet no coordinated structural reforms of the lunisolar calendar have been undertaken.\n\nToday, the traditional Buddhist lunisolar calendar is used mainly for Theravada Buddhist festivals, and no longer has the official calendar status anywhere. The Thai Buddhist Era, a renumbered Gregorian calendar, is the official calendar in Thailand.\n\nThe calculation methodology of the current versions of Southeast Asian Buddhist calendars is largely based on that of the Burmese calendar, which was in use in various Southeast Asian kingdoms down to the 19th century under the names of Chula Sakarat and Jolak Sakaraj. The Burmese calendar in turn was based on the \"original\" \"Surya Siddhanta\" system of ancient India (believed to be Ardharatrika school). One key difference with Indian systems is that the Burmese system has followed a variation of the Metonic cycle. It is unclear from where, when or how the Metonic system was introduced; hypotheses range from China to Europe. The Burmese system, and indeed the Southeast Asian systems, thus use a \"strange\" combination of sidereal years from Indian calendar in combination with the Metonic cycle better for tropical years.\n\nIn all Theravada traditions, the calendar's epochal year 0 date was the day in which the Buddha attained \"parinibbāna\". However, not all traditions agree on when it actually took place. In Burmese Buddhist tradition, it was 13 May 544 BCE (Tuesday, Full moon of Kason 148 Anjanasakaraj). But in Thailand, it was 11 March 545 BCE, the date which the current Thai lunisolar and solar calendars use as the epochal date. Yet, the Thai calendars for some reason have fixed the difference between their Buddhist Era (BE) numbering and the Christian/Common Era (CE) numbering at 543, which points to an epochal year of 544 BCE, not 545 BCE. In Myanmar, the difference between BE and CE can be 543 or 544 for CE dates, and 544 or 543 for BCE dates, depending on the month of the Buddhist Era (as the Buddhist calendar straddles the Gregorian calendar—currently from April to April). In Sri Lanka, the difference between BE and CE is 544.\n\nThe calendar recognizes two types of months: synodic month and sidereal month. The Synodic months are used to compose the years while the 27 lunar sidereal days (Sanskrit: \"nakshatra\"), alongside the 12 signs of the zodiac, are used for astrological calculations. (The Burmese calendar also recognizes a solar month called \"Thuriya Matha\", which is defined as 1/12th of a year. But the solar month varies by the type of year such as tropical year, sidereal year, etc.)\n\nThe days of the month are counted in two halves, waxing and waning. The 15th of the waxing is the civil full moon day. The civil new moon day is the last day of the month (14th or 15th waning). Because of the inaccuracy of the calendrical calculation systems, the mean and real (true) New Moons rarely coincide. The mean New Moon often precedes the real New Moon.\n\nAs the Synodic lunar month is approximately 29.5 days, the calendar uses alternating months of 29 and 30 days.\n\nVarious regional versions of Chula Sakarat/Burmese calendar existed across various regions of mainland Southeast Asia. Unlike Burmese systems, Kengtung, Lan Na, Lan Xang and Sukhothai systems refer to the months by numbers, not by names. This means reading ancient texts and inscriptions in Thailand requires constant vigilance, not just in making sure one is correctly operating for the correct region, but also for variations within regions itself when incursions cause a variation in practice. However, Cambodian (Khmer) month system, which begins with Margasirsa as the first month, demonstrated precisely by the names and numbers.\n\nThe Buddhist calendar is a lunisolar calendar in which the months are based on lunar months and years are based on solar years. One of its primary objectives is to synchronize the lunar part with the solar part. The lunar months, normally twelve of them, consist alternately of 29 days and 30 days, such that a normal lunar year will contain 354 days, as opposed to the solar year of ~365.25 days. Therefore, some form of addition to the lunar year (of intercalation) is necessary. The overall basis for it is provided by cycles of 57 years. Eleven extra days are inserted in every 57 years, and seven extra months of 30 days are inserted in every 19 years (21 months in 57 years). This provides 20819 complete days to both calendars. This 57-year cycle would provide a mean year of about 365.2456 days and a mean month of about 29.530496 days, if not corrected.\n\nAs such, the calendar adds an intercalary month in leap years and sometimes also an intercalary day in great leap years. The intercalary month not only corrects the length of the year but also corrects the accumulating error of the month to extent of half a day. The average length of the month is further corrected by adding a day to Nayon at irregular intervals—a little more than seven times in two cycles (39 years). The intercalary day is never inserted except in a year which has an intercalary month. The Hindu calendar inserts an intercalary month at any time of year as soon as the accumulated fractions amount to one month. The Burmese calendar however always inserts the intercalary month at the same time of the year, after the summer solstice while the Arakanese calendar inserts it after the vernal equinox.\n\nThe actual Burmese calendar year consists of 354, 384 or 385 days.\n\nNote: The Arakanese calendar adds the intercalary day in Tagu, not in Nayon.\n\nThe Cambodian, Lao and Thai lunar calendars use a slightly different method to place the intercalary day. Instead of it in a leap year as in the Burmese system, the Thai system places it in a separate year. Thus, the Thai small leap year has 355 days while the Thai great leap year has 384 days.\n\nSince the main purpose of Buddhist calendar is to keep pace with the solar year, the new year is always marked by the solar year, which falls at the time when the Sun enters Aries. The date, which at the present falls on the 17th of April, has slowly drifted over the centuries. In the 20th century, the New Year's Day fell on April 15 or 16th but in the 17th century, it fell on April 9 or 10th. Thailand and Cambodia no longer use the traditional lunisolar calendar to mark the New Year's Day.\n\nCambodian and Thai systems give animal names to the years from a cycle of 12. The practice also existed in Burma in the Pagan period but later died out.\n\nIn Cambodia, there is the sequence of year, which numbered from one to ten, used to identify a particular year, called \"Sak\" (Khmer: ស័ក) that means \"era\". It begins with a prefix \"Aek, tor or trei\", which means one, two or three respectively (using numerals that were derived from the Sanskrit language) then the suffix \"Sak\" is added to each prefix so as to form a word of the year. Cambodian use the Sak system to differentiate the twelve animal years that return every twelve year by including the ten-year system along with the animal year system. For instance, in 2017, the ten-year and animal year fall in the year of Rooster, Nuppasak (era 9), Buddhist Era of 2561 (based on Cambodian lunar calendar).\n\nThe Southeast Asian Buddhist calendars use lunar months but try to keep pace with the solar year, by inserting intercalary months and days on the Metonic cycle (in the case of the Burmese calendar, on a modified Metonic cycle). However, the solar year as defined by the Buddhist calendars is really a sidereal year, which is nearly 24 minutes longer than the actual mean tropical year. Therefore, like all sidereal-based calendars, the lunisolar calendars are slowly drifting away from the seasons. The calendars are drifting one day approximately every 60 years and 4 months.\n\nThe accumulating drift against the seasons means the New Year's Day which used to fall on 22 March (near the vernal equinox) in 638 CE now falls on 17 April in 2013 CE. There is no known internationally concerted effort to stop this drift. Thailand has moved its \"Buddhist Era\" to the Gregorian calendar under the name of Thai solar calendar. In Myanmar, Burmese calendarists have tried to deal with the issue by periodically modifying the intercalation schedule in the Metonic cycle. One major downside of this approach is that it is not possible to publish future calendars more than a few years (often even a year) ahead.\n\nThe Buddhist Era was first introduced to Southeast Asia along with Buddhism in the early centuries CE. It was not a separate calendar but simply a year numbering system that employed the organization and calculation methods of the prevailing lunisolar calendars in use throughout the region. In the early centuries CE, the reference civil calendar of the Buddhist calendar prevalent in Southeast Asia was the Saka Era (Mahāsakaraj Era), which is said to have been adopted by the Pyu state of Sri Ksetra in 80 CE. The Saka Era was gradually replaced by the Burmese Era or Culāsakaraj, first in Myanmar in 640 CE, and in other Theravada kingdoms of Southeast Asia between the 13th and 16th centuries. Theravada Buddhist tradition also recognizes pre-Buddhist Anjana Sakaraj (Añjana's Era) since the events of the Buddha's life are recorded in that era.\n\nThe tradition of using different reference calendars continued in Siam in 1912 when King Vajiravudh decreed that the Buddhist Era would now track the Thai solar calendar, the Siamese version of the Gregorian calendar with the New Year's Day of 1 April. Therefore, the Thai Buddhist Era year of 2455 began on 1 April 1912 (as opposed to 15 April 1912 according to the lunisolar calendar). The Thai Buddhist Era was further realigned to the Gregorian calendar on 6 September 1940 when Prime Minister Phibunsongkhram decreed 1 January 1941 as the start of the year 2484 BE. As a result, the Year 2483 was only 9 months long, and the Thai Buddhist Era equals that of the Common Era plus 543 years.\n\nThe lunisolar calendar is used to mark important Buddhist holidays. Many of the holidays are celebrated as public holidays.\n\nSince the release of Java 8, the Buddhist calendar is supported in the new Date and Time API.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5264082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5264082", "title": "Buddhist cosmology", "text": "Buddhist cosmology\n\nBuddhist cosmology is the description of the shape and evolution of the Universe according to the Buddhist scriptures and commentaries. \n\nIt consists of temporal and spatial cosmology, the temporal cosmology being the division of the existence of a 'world' into four discrete moments (the creation, duration, dissolution, and state of being dissolved; this does not seem to be a canonical division, however). The spatial cosmology consists of a vertical cosmology, the various planes of beings, their bodies, characteristics, food, lifespan, beauty and a horizontal cosmology, the distribution of these world-systems into an \"apparently\" infinite sheet of universes. The existence of world-periods (moments, kalpas), is well attested to by the Buddha.\n\nThe historical Buddha (Gautama Buddha) made references to the existence of aeons (the duration of which he describes using a metaphor of the time taken to erode a rock by brushing it with a silk cloth, once per century), and simultaneously intimates his knowledge of past events, such as the dawn of human beings in their coarse and gender-split forms, the existence of more than one sun at certain points in time, and his ability to convey his voice vast distances, as well as the ability of his disciples (who if they fare accordingly) to be reborn in any one of these planes (should they so choose).\n\nThe self-consistent Buddhist cosmology, which is presented in commentaries and works of Abhidharma in both Theravāda and Mahāyāna traditions, is the end-product of an analysis and reconciliation of cosmological comments found in the Buddhist sūtra and vinaya traditions. No single sūtra sets out the entire structure of the universe, but in several sūtras the Buddha describes other worlds and states of being, and other sūtras describe the origin and destruction of the universe. The synthesis of these data into a single comprehensive system must have taken place early in the history of Buddhism, as the system described in the Pāli Vibhajyavāda tradition (represented by today's Theravādins) agrees, despite some minor inconsistencies of nomenclature, with the Sarvāstivāda tradition which is preserved by Mahāyāna Buddhists.\n\nThe picture of the world presented in Buddhist cosmological descriptions cannot be taken as a literal description of the shape of the universe. It is inconsistent, and cannot be made consistent, with astronomical data that were already known in ancient India. However, it is not intended to be a description of how ordinary humans perceive their world; rather, it is the universe as seen through the (Pāli: dibbacakkhu दिव्यचक्ख्खु), the \"divine eye\" by which a Buddha or an arhat who has cultivated this faculty can perceive all of the other worlds and the beings arising (being born) and passing away (dying) within them, and can tell from what state they have been reborn and into what state they will be reborn. The cosmology has also been interpreted in a symbolical or allegorical sense (for Mahayana teaching see Ten spiritual realms).\n\nBuddhist cosmology can be divided into two related kinds: spatial cosmology, which describes the arrangement of the various worlds within the universe; and temporal cosmology, which describes how those worlds come into existence, and how they pass away.\n\nSpatial cosmology displays the various, multitude of worlds embedded in the universe. Spatial cosmology can also be divided into two branches. The \"vertical\" (or ) cosmology describes the arrangement of worlds in a vertical pattern, some being higher and some lower. By contrast, the \"horizontal\" (sahasra) cosmology describes the grouping of these vertical worlds into sets of thousands, millions or billions.\n\n\"In the vertical cosmology, the universe exists of many worlds () – one might say \"planes/realms\" – stacked one upon the next in layers. Each world corresponds to a mental state or a state of being\". A world is not, however, a location so much as it is the beings which compose it; it is sustained by their karma and if the beings in a world all die or disappear, the world disappears too. Likewise, a world comes into existence when the first being is born into it. The physical separation is not so important as the difference in mental state; humans and animals, though they partially share the same physical environments, still belong to different worlds because their minds perceive and react to those environments differently.\n\nThe vertical cosmology is divided into thirty-one planes of existence and the planes into three realms, or dhātus, each corresponding to a different type of mentality. These three realms (Tridhātu) are the Ārūpyadhātu (4 Realms), the Rūpadhātu (16 Realms), and the Kāmadhātu (15 Realms). This Sakwala/solar system or plane of existence comprises the \"five or six desire realms\". In some instances all of the beings born in the Ārūpyadhātu and the Rūpadhātu are informally classified as \"gods\" or \"deities\" (), along with the gods of the Kāmadhātu, notwithstanding the fact that the deities of the Kāmadhātu differ more from those of the Ārūpyadhātu than they do from humans. It is to be understood that deva is an imprecise term referring to any being living in a longer-lived and generally more blissful state than humans. Most of them are not \"gods\" in the common sense of the term, having little or no concern with the human world and rarely if ever interacting with it; only the lowest deities of the Kāmadhātu correspond to the gods described in many polytheistic religions.\n\nThe term \"brahmā; देवनागरीः ब्रह्मा\" is used both as a name and as a generic term for one of the higher devas. In its broadest sense, it can refer to any of the inhabitants of the Ārūpyadhātu and the Rūpadhātu. In more restricted senses, it can refer to an inhabitant of one of the eleven lower worlds of the Rūpadhātu, or in its narrowest sense, to the three lowest worlds of the Rūpadhātu (Plane of Brahma’s retinue) A large number of devas use the name \"Brahmā\", e.g. Brahmā Sahampati सहम्पत्ति महाब्रह्मा, Brahmā Sanatkumāra ब्रह्मा सनतकुमार, Baka Brahmā बक ब्रह्मा, etc. It is not always clear which world they belong to, although it must always be one of the worlds of the Rūpadhātu. According to the Ayacana Sutta, Brahmā Sahampati, who begs the Buddha to teach Dhamma to the world, resides in the Śuddhāvāsa worlds.\n\nThe Ārūpyadhātu (Sanskrit) or Arūpaloka (Pāli) (Tib: \"gzugs med pa'i khams\"; Chinese: 无色界/無色界;Jpn: 無色界 \"Mushiki-kai\"; देवनागरीः अरुपधातु / अरुपलोक) or \"Formless realm\" would have no place in a purely physical cosmology, as none of the beings inhabiting it has either shape or location; and correspondingly, the realm has no location either. This realm belongs to those devas who attained and remained in the Four Formless Absorptions () of the arūpadhyānas in a previous life, and now enjoys the fruits (vipāka) of the good karma of that accomplishment. Bodhisattvas, however, are never born in the Ārūpyadhātu even when they have attained the arūpadhyānas.\n\nThere are four types of Ārūpyadhātu devas, corresponding to the four types of arūpadhyānas:\n\n\nThe Rūpadhātu (Pāli: Rūpaloka; Tib: \"gzugs kyi khams\"; Chinese: 色界; Jpn: 色界 \"Shiki-kai\"; देवानागरीः रुपलोक/रुपधातु) or \"Form realm\" is, as the name implies, the first of the physical realms; its inhabitants all have a location and bodies of a sort, though those bodies are composed of a subtle substance which is of itself invisible to the inhabitants of the Kāmadhātu. According to the Janavasabha Sutta, when a brahma (a being from the Brahma-world of the Rūpadhātu) wishes to visit a deva of the heaven (in the Kāmadhātu), he has to assume a \"grosser form\" in order to be visible to them. There are 17-22 Rūpadhātu in Buddhism texts, the most common saying is 18.\n\nThe beings of the Form realm are not subject to the extremes of pleasure and pain, or governed by desires for things pleasing to the senses, as the beings of the Kāmadhātu are. The bodies of Form realm beings do not have sexual distinctions.\n\nLike the beings of the Ārūpyadhātu, the dwellers in the Rūpadhātu have minds corresponding to the dhyānas (Pāli: jhānas). In their case it is the four lower dhyānas or rūpadhyānas॥रुपध्यान. However, although the beings of the Rūpadhātu can be divided into four broad grades corresponding to these four dhyānas, each of them is subdivided into further grades, three for each of the four dhyānas and five for the Śuddhāvāsa devas, for a total of seventeen grades (the Theravāda tradition counts one less grade in the highest dhyāna for a total of sixteen).\n\nPhysically, the Rūpadhātu consists of a series of planes stacked on top of each other, each one in a series of steps half the size of the previous one as one descends. In part, this reflects the fact that the devas are also thought of as physically larger on the higher planes. The highest planes are also broader in extent than the ones lower down, as discussed in the section on \"Sahasra cosmology\". The height of these planes is expressed in \"yojanas\", a measurement of very uncertain length, but sometimes taken to be about 4,000 times the height of a man, and so approximately .\n\nThe Śuddhāvāsa (Pāli: Suddhāvāsa; Tib: \"gnas gtsang ma\"; Chinese: 净居天/凈居天; देवनागरीः शुद्धावास) worlds, or \"Pure Abodes\", are distinct from the other worlds of the Rūpadhātu in that they do not house beings who have been born there through ordinary merit or meditative attainments, but only those Anāgāmins (\"Non-returners\") who are already on the path to Arhat-hood and who will attain enlightenment directly from the Śuddhāvāsa worlds without being reborn in a lower plane. Every Śuddhāvāsa deva is therefore a protector of Buddhism. (Brahma Sahampati, who appealed to the newly enlightened Buddha to teach, was an Anagami under the previous Buddha). Because a Śuddhāvāsa deva will never be reborn outside the Śuddhāvāsa worlds, no Bodhisattva is ever born in these worlds, as a Bodhisattva must ultimately be reborn as a human being.\n\nSince these devas rise from lower planes only due to the teaching of a Buddha, they can remain empty for very long periods if no Buddha arises. However, unlike the lower worlds, the Śuddhāvāsa worlds are never destroyed by natural catastrophe. The Śuddhāvāsa devas predict the coming of a Buddha and, taking the guise of Brahmins, reveal to human beings the signs by which a Buddha can be recognized. They also ensure that a Bodhisattva in his last life will see the four signs that will lead to his renunciation.\n\nThe five Śuddhāvāsa worlds are:\n\nThe mental state of the devas of the worlds (Chn: 四禅九天/四禪九天; Jpn: ) corresponds to the fourth dhyāna, and is characterized by equanimity (). The worlds form the upper limit to the destruction of the universe by wind at the end of a mahākalpa (see Temporal cosmology below), that is, they are spared such destruction.\n\nThe mental state of the devas of the worlds (Chn/Jpn: 三禅三天; देवनागरीः शुभक्षण) corresponds to the third dhyāna, and is characterized by a quiet joy (sukha). These devas have bodies that radiate a steady light. The worlds form the upper limit to the destruction of the universe by water at the end of a mahākalpa (see Temporal cosmology below), that is, the flood of water does not rise high enough to reach them.\n\nThe mental state of the devas of the Ābhāsvara worlds (Chn/Jpn: 二禅三天; देवनागरीः अभश्वभारा) corresponds to the second dhyāna, and is characterized by delight (prīti) as well as joy (sukha); the Ābhāsvara devas are said to shout aloud in their joy, crying \"aho sukham!\" (\"Oh joy!\"). These devas have bodies that emit flashing rays of light like lightning. They are said to have similar bodies (to each other) but diverse perceptions.\n\nThe Ābhāsvara worlds form the upper limit to the destruction of the universe by fire at the end of a mahākalpa (see Temporal cosmology below), that is, the column of fire does not rise high enough to reach them. After the destruction of the world, at the beginning of the vivartakalpa, the worlds are first populated by beings reborn from the Ābhāsvara worlds.\n\nThe mental state of the devas of the Brahmā worlds (Chn/Jpn: 初禅三天; ब्रह्मलोक) corresponds to the first dhyāna, and is characterized by observation (vitarka) and reflection (vicāra) as well as delight (prīti) and joy (sukha). The Brahmā worlds, together with the other lower worlds of the universe, are destroyed by fire at the end of a mahākalpa (see Temporal cosmology below).\n\nThe beings born in the Kāmadhātu (Pāli: Kāmaloka; Tib: \" 'dod pa'i khams\"; Chn/Jpn: 欲界 \"Yoku-kai\"; देवनागरीः कामधातु) differ in degree of happiness, but they are all, other than Anagamis, Arhats and Buddhas, under the domination of Māra and are bound by sensual desire, which causes them suffering.\n\nThe following four worlds are bounded planes, each 80,000 yojanas square, which float in the air above the top of Mount Sumeru. Although all of the worlds inhabited by devas (that is, all the worlds down to the Cāturmahārājikakāyika world and sometimes including the Asuras) are sometimes called \"heavens\", in the western sense of the word the term best applies to the four worlds listed below:\n\nThe world-mountain of Sumeru is an immense, strangely shaped peak which arises in the center of the world, and around which the Sun and Moon revolve. Its base rests in a vast ocean, and it is surrounded by several rings of lesser mountain ranges and oceans. The three worlds listed below are all located on, or around, Sumeru: the devas live on its peak, the Cāturmahārājikakāyika devas चर्तुर-महाराजिक live on its slopes, and the Asuras असुर live in the ocean at its base. Sumeru and its surrounding oceans and mountains are the home not just of these deities, but also vast assemblies of beings of popular mythology who only rarely intrude on the human world.\n\n\nNaraka नरक or Niraya निरय (Tib: \"dmyal ba\"; देवनागरीः नरक) is the name given to one of the worlds of greatest suffering, usually translated into English as \"hell\" or \"purgatory\". As with the other realms, a being is born into one of these worlds as a result of his karma, and resides there for a finite length of time until his karma has achieved its full result, after which he will be reborn in one of the higher worlds as the result of an earlier karma that had not yet ripened. The mentality of a being in the hells corresponds to states of extreme fear and helpless anguish in humans.\n\nPhysically, Naraka is thought of as a series of layers extending below Jambudvīpa into the earth. There are several schemes for counting these Narakas and enumerating their torments. One of the more common is that of the Eight Cold Narakas and Eight Hot Narakas.\n\nEach lifetime in these Narakas is twenty times the length of the one before it.\n\n\nAll of the structures of the earth, Sumeru and the rest, extend downward to a depth of 80,000 yojanas below sea level – the same as the height of Sumeru above sea level. Below this is a layer of \"golden earth\", a substance compact and firm enough to support the weight of Sumeru. It is 320,000 yojanas in depth and so extends to 400,000 yojanas below sea level. The layer of golden earth in turn rests upon a layer of water, which is 8,000,000 yojanas in depth, going down to 8,400,000 yojanas below sea level. Below the layer of water is a \"circle of wind\", which is 16,000,000 yojanas in depth and also much broader in extent, supporting 1,000 different worlds upon it. Yojanas are equivalent to about 13 km (8 mi).\n\nSahasra means \"one thousand\". All of the planes, from the plane of neither perception nor non-perception (nevasanna-asanna-ayatana) down to the Avici – the \"uninterrupted\" or \"unceasing\" (avici literally means \"without interval\") niraya – constitutes the single world-system, cakkavala (intimating something circular, a \"wheel\", but the etymology is uncertain), described above. In modern parlance it would be called a 'universe', or 'solar system'.\n\nA collection of one thousand solar systems are called a \"thousandfold minor world-system\" (culanika lokhadhatu). Or small chiliocosm.\n\nA collection of 1,000 times 1,000 world-systems (one thousand squared) is a \"thousandfold to the second power middling world-system\" (dvisahassi majjhima lokadhatu). Or medium dichiliocosm.\n\nThe largest grouping, which consists of one thousand cubed world-systems, is called the \"tisahassi mahasassi lokadhatu\". Or great trichiliocosm.\n\nThe Tathagata, if he so wished, could effect his voice throughout a great trichiliocosm. He does so by suffusing the trichiliocosm with his radiance, at which point the inhabitants of those world-system will perceive this light, and then proceeds to extend his voice throughout that realm.\n\nThe word kalpa, means 'moment'. A maha kalpa consists of four moments (kalpa), the first of which is creation. The creation moment consists of the creation of the \"receptacle\", and the descent of beings from higher realms into more coarse forms of existence. During the rest of the creation moment, the world is populated. Human beings who exist at this point have no limit on their lifespan. The second moment is the duration moment, the start of this moment is signified by the first sentient being to enter hell (niraya), the hells and nirayas not existing or being empty prior to this moment. The duration moment consists of twenty \"intermediate\" moments (antarakappas), which unfold in a drama of the human lifespan descending from 80,000 years to 10, and then back up to 80,000 again. The interval between 2 of these \"intermediate\" moments is the \"seven day purge\", in which a variety of humans will kill each other (not knowing or recognizing each other), some humans will go into hiding. At the end of this purge, they will emerge from hiding and repopulate the world. After this purge, the lifespan will increase to 80,000, reach its peak and descend, at which point the purge will happen again.\n\nWithin the duration 'moment', this purge and repeat cycle seems to happen around 18 times, the first \"intermediate\" moment consisting only of the descent from 80,000—the second intermediate moment consisting of a rise and descent, and the last consisting only of an ascent.\n\nAfter the duration 'moment' is the dissolution moment, the hells will gradually be emptied, as well as all coarser forms of existence. The beings will flock to the form realms (rupa dhatu), a destruction of fire occurs, sparing everything from the realms of the 'radiant' gods and above (abha deva).\n\nAfter 7 of these destructions by 'fire', a destruction by water occurs, and everything from the realms of the 'pleasant' gods and above is spared (subha deva).\n\nAfter 64 of these destructions by fire and water, that is—56 destructions by fire, and 7 by water—a destruction by wind occurs, this eliminates everything below the realms of the 'fruitful' devas (vehapphala devas, literally of \"great fruit\"). The pure abodes (suddhavasa, meaning something like pure, unmixed, similar to the connotation of \"pure bred German shepherd\"), are never destroyed. Although without the appearance of a Buddha, these realms may remain empty for a long time. It should be noted that the inhabitants of these realms have exceedingly long life spans.\n\nThe formless realms are never destroyed because they do not consist of form (rupa). The reason the world is destroyed by fire, water and wind, and not earth is because earth is the 'receptacle'.\n\nAfter the dissolution moment, this particular world system remains dissolved for a long time, this is called the 'empty' moment, but the more accurate term would be \"the state of being dissolved\". The beings that inhabited this realm formerly will migrate to other world systems, and perhaps return if their journeys lead here again.\n\nBuddhist temporal cosmology describes how the universe comes into being and is dissolved. Like other Indian cosmologies, it assumes an infinite span of time and is cyclical. This does not mean that the same events occur in identical form with each cycle, but merely that, as with the cycles of day and night or summer and winter, certain natural events occur over and over to give some structure to time.\n\nThe basic unit of time measurement is the mahākalpa or \"Great Eon\" (Chn/Jpn: 大劫 \"daigō\"; देवनागरीः महाकल्प / महाकप्प). The length of this time in human years is never defined exactly, but it is meant to be very long, to be measured in billions of years if not longer.\n\nA mahākalpa is divided into four kalpas or \"eons\" (Chn/Jpn: 劫 \"kō\"; अन्तरकल्प), each distinguished from the others by the stage of evolution of the universe during that kalpa. The four kalpas are:\n\nEach one of these kalpas is divided into twenty antarakalpas अन्तरकल्प (Pāli: antarakappa अन्तरकप्प; Chn/Jpn: 中劫, \"inside eons\") each of about the same length. For the this division is merely nominal, as nothing changes from one antarakalpa to the next; but for the other three kalpas it marks an interior cycle within the kalpa.\n\nThe Vivartakalpa begins with the arising of the primordial wind, which begins the process of building up the structures of the universe that had been destroyed at the end of the last mahākalpa. As the extent of the destruction can vary, the nature of this evolution can vary as well, but it always takes the form of beings from a higher world being born into a lower world. The example of a Mahābrahmā being the rebirth of a deceased Ābhāsvara deva is just one instance of this, which continues throughout the Vivartakalpa until all the worlds are filled from the Brahmaloka down to Naraka. During the Vivartakalpa the first humans appear; they are not like present-day humans, but are beings shining in their own light, capable of moving through the air without mechanical aid, living for a very long time, and not requiring sustenance; they are more like a type of lower deity than present-day humans are.\n\nOver time, they acquire a taste for physical nutriment, and as they consume it, their bodies become heavier and more like human bodies; they lose their ability to shine, and begin to acquire differences in their appearance, and their length of life decreases. They differentiate into two sexes and begin to become sexually active. Then greed, theft and violence arise among them, and they establish social distinctions and government and elect a king to rule them, called Mahāsammata। महासम्मत, \"the great appointed one\". Some of them begin to hunt and eat the flesh of animals, which have by now come into existence.\n\nThe Vivartasthāyikalpa begins when the first being is born into Naraka, thus filling the entire universe with beings. During the first antarakalpa of this eon, human lives are declining from a vast but unspecified number of years (but at least several tens of thousands of years) toward the modern lifespan of less than 100 years. At the beginning of the antarakalpa, people are still generally happy. They live under the rule of a universal monarch or \"wheel-turning king\" (Sanskrit: cakravartin चक्रवर्ति; Jpn: 転輪聖王 \"Tenrin Jō-ō\"), who conquer. The Mahāsudassana-sutta (DN.17) tells of the life of a cakravartin king, Mahāsudassana (Sanskrit: Mahāsudarśana) who lived for 336,000 years. The Cakkavatti-sīhanāda-sutta (DN.26) tells of a later dynasty of cakravartins, (Sanskrit: ) and five of his descendants, who had a lifespan of over 80,000 years. The seventh of this line of cakravartins broke with the traditions of his forefathers, refusing to abdicate his position at a certain age, pass the throne on to his son, and enter the life of a . As a result of his subsequent misrule, poverty increased; as a result of poverty, theft began; as a result of theft, capital punishment was instituted; and as a result of this contempt for life, murders and other crimes became rampant.\n\nThe human lifespan now quickly decreased from 80,000 to 100 years, apparently decreasing by about half with each generation (this is perhaps not to be taken literally), while with each generation other crimes and evils increased: lying, greed, hatred, sexual misconduct, disrespect for elders. During this period, according to the Mahāpadāna-sutta (DN.14) three of the four Buddhas of this antarakalpa lived: Krakucchanda Buddha (Pāli: Kakusandha ककुछन्द), at the time when the lifespan was 40,000 years; Kanakamuni कनकमुनी Buddha (Pāli: Konāgamana कोनागमन) when the lifespan was 30,000 years; and Kāśyapa काश्यप Buddha (Pāli: Kassapa कस्सप) when the lifespan was 20,000 years.\n\nOur present time is taken to be toward the end of the first antarakalpa of this Vivartasthāyikalpa, when the lifespan is less than 100 years, after the life of Śākyamuni Buddha (Pāli: Sakyamuni शाक्यमुनी), who lived to the age of 80.\n\nThe remainder of the antarakalpa is prophesied to be miserable: lifespans will continue to decrease, and all the evil tendencies of the past will reach their ultimate in destructiveness. People will live no longer than ten years, and will marry at five; foods will be poor and tasteless; no form of morality will be acknowledged. The most contemptuous and hateful people will become the rulers. Incest will be rampant. Hatred between people, even members of the same family, will grow until people think of each other as hunters do of their prey.\n\nEventually a great war will ensue, in which the most hostile and aggressive will arm themselves and go out to kill each other. The less aggressive will hide in forests and other secret places while the war rages. This war marks the end of the first antarakalpa.\n\nAt the end of the war, the survivors will emerge from their hiding places and repent their evil habits. As they begin to do good, their lifespan increases, and the health and welfare of the human race will also increase with it. After a long time, the descendants of those with a 10-year lifespan will live for 80,000 years, and at that time there will be a cakravartin king named . During his reign, the current bodhisattva in the heaven will descend and be reborn under the name of Ajita अजित. He will enter the life of a and will gain perfect enlightenment बोधीज्ञान as a Buddha; and he will then be known by the name of Maitreya (मैत्रेय, Pāli: Metteyya मेत्तय).\n\nAfter Maitreya's time, the world will again worsen, and the lifespan will gradually decrease from 80,000 years to 10 years again, each \"antarakalpa\" being separated from the next by devastating war, with peaks of high civilization and morality in the middle. After the 19th \"antarakalpa\", the lifespan will increase to 80,000 and then not decrease, because the \"Vivartasthāyikalpa\" will have come to an end.\nThe begins when beings cease to be born in Naraka. This cessation of birth then proceeds in reverse order up the vertical cosmology, i.e., pretas then cease to be born, then animals, then humans, and so on up to the realms of the deities.\n\nWhen these worlds as far as the Brahmaloka are devoid of inhabitants, a great fire consumes the entire physical structure of the world. It burns all the worlds below the Ābhāsvara worlds. When they are destroyed, the begins.\nThere is nothing to say about the , since nothing happens in it below the Ābhāsvara worlds. It ends when the primordial wind begins to blow and build the structure of the worlds up again.\n\nThe destruction by fire is the normal type of destruction that occurs at the end of the . But every eighth mahākalpa, after seven destructions by fire, there is a destruction by water. This is more devastating, as it eliminates not just the Brahma worlds but also the Ābhāsvara worlds.\n\nEvery sixty-fourth mahākalpa, after fifty six destructions by fire and seven destructions by water, there is a destruction by wind. This is the most devastating of all, as it also destroys the worlds. The higher worlds are never destroyed.\n\nMahayana Buddhism accepts the cosmology as above. A cosmology with some difference is further explained in Chapter 5 of the Avatamsaka Sutra.\n\n"}
{"id": "12104102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12104102", "title": "Calles Law", "text": "Calles Law\n\nThe Calles Law (), or Law for Reforming the Penal Code (\"ley de tolerancia de cultos\", \"law of tolerance of sects\"), was a statute enacted in Mexico in 1926, under the presidency of Plutarco Elías Calles, to enforce the restrictions against the Catholic Church in Article 130 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917. Article 130 declared that the church and state are to remain separate. To that end, it required all \"churches and religious groupings\" to register with the state and placed restrictions on priests and ministers of all religions. Priests and ministers could not hold public office, canvass on behalf of political parties or candidates, or inherit property from persons other than close blood relatives. President Calles applied existing laws regarding the separation of church and state throughout Mexico and added his own legislation.\n\nIn June 1926, he signed the \"Law for Reforming the Penal Code\", which became known unofficially as the \"Calles Law.\" This law provided specific penalties for priests and individuals who violated Article 130 of the 1917 Constitution. For example, wearing clerical garb in public was punishable by a fine of 500 pesos (approximately 250 U.S. dollars at the time, or worth $4,250 in 2010. A priest who criticized the government could be imprisoned for five years. Some states enacted further measures in the name of church and state separation. Chihuahua, for example, enacted a law permitting only a single priest to serve the entire Catholic congregation of the state. To help enforce the law, Calles seized Church property, expelled all foreign priests, and closed monasteries, convents, and religious schools.\n\nOne result of the Calles Law was the Cristero War, a popular uprising of Catholic peasants in regions of central Mexico against the federal Mexican government. Between 1926 and 1934, at least 40 priests were killed during the war. Whereas Mexico had some 4,500 Catholic priests prior to the Cristero War, by 1934 only 334 Catholic priests were licensed by the government to serve Mexico's 15 million people. By 1935, 17 states were left with no priest at all. Under President Lázaro Cárdenas, the Calles Law was repealed in 1938.\n"}
{"id": "6599897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6599897", "title": "Chaturthi", "text": "Chaturthi\n\nChaturthi or Chaviti (Telugu: చతుర్థి or చవితి), is the fourth day (Tithi) of any lunar month in the Hindu calendar.\n\n\nDuring each month, Lord Ganesha is worshiped with a different name and peeta (Lotus petals). On the Charturti day (4th day after new moon) of each month, the 'Sankashta Ganapathi Pooja' prayer is performed. Each ‘Vratha’ (strict fast) has a purpose and is explained to us by a story known as the ‘Vratha Katha’. This prayer offering has 13 Vratha Kathas, one for each month and the 13th story is for 'athika' (The Hindu calendar has one extra month every 4 years). The uniqueness of this Vratha is that the story pertaining to that month alone has to be recited.\n\nThe Sankasta Ganapathi Pooja - 13 Names and Peetas\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47044481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47044481", "title": "Criticism of Zoroastrianism", "text": "Criticism of Zoroastrianism\n\nCriticism of Zoroastrianism has taken place over many centuries not only from the adherents of other religions but also among Zoroastrians themselves seeking to reform the faith.\n\nIn the early 19th century, a Christian missionary based in British India, John Wilson, claimed that Zoroaster never had a genuine divine commission (or ever claimed such a role), never performed miracles, or uttered prophecies and that the story of his life is \"a mere tissue of comparatively modern fables and fiction.\" Others assert that all the available Zoroastrian sources regarding Zoroaster only provide conflicting images about him, especially between earlier and later sources.\n\nThe Dasatir-i-Asmani, while being accepted by Zoroastrian communities in Iran and India as genuine, especially by the Kadmi, it is generally believed to be a forgery.\n\nWilson argued that the Avesta could not be divinely inspired because much of its text was irrevocably lost or unintelligible and Martin Haug, who greatly helped the Parsis of India to defend their religion against the attacks of such Christian missionaries as Wilson, considered the Gathas to be the only texts and only authoritative scriptures that could be attributed to Zoroaster.\n\nJohn Wilson attacked the Zoroastrian reverence of the Amesha Spenta and Yazatas as a form of polytheism, although the Parsis at the time immediately refuted this allegation and insisted that he had in fact addressed the \"Bundahishn\", a text whose relevance to their practice was remote. Critics also commonly claim that Zoroastrians are worshipers of other deities and elements of nature, such as of fire—with one prayer, the Litany to the fire (Atesh Niyaesh), stating: \"I invite, I perform (the worship) of you, the Fire, O son of Ahura Mazdā together with all fires\"—and Mithra. Some critics have charged Zoroastrians with being followers of dualism, who only claimed to be followers of monotheism in modern times to confront the powerful influence of Christian and Western thought which \"hailed monotheism as the highest category of theology.\" Critics insist that the monotheistic reformist view is seen to contradict the conservative (or traditional) view of a dualistic worldview most evident in the relationship between Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu. and arguing that Zoroastrians follow a belief system influenced by henotheism. Other Western scholars such as Martin Haug, however, have dismissed the concept of theological dualism as a corruption of Zoroaster's original teachings, gradually added by later adherents of the faith. Critics add that the fact that such differing views have proliferated are a sign of the enigmatic nature of the Zoroastrian beliefs regarding the divinity.\n\nZoroastrian reformers, such as Maneckji Nusserwanji Dhalla, have argued that literary precedence should be given to the Gathas, as a source of authority and textual authenticity. They have also deplored and criticized many Zoroastrian rituals (e.g. excessive ceremonialism and focus on purity, using \"bull's urine for ritual cleansing, the attendance of a dog to gaze at the corpse during funerary rites, the exposure of corpses on towers [for consumption by vultures and ravens]\") and theological and cosmological doctrines as not befitting of the faith. This \"orthodox\" versus \"reformist\" controversy rages even on the internet.\n\nDivisions and tensions also exist between Iranian and Indian Zoroastrians and over such issues as the authority of a hereditary priesthood in the transmission and interpretation of the faith, ethnicity and the nature of Ahura Mazda. Historically, differences also existed between the Zoroastrian branches of Zurvanism, Mazdakism and Mazdaism.\n\nMuch like the question of who is a Jew?, Zoroastrian identity, especially whether it is adopted through birth or belief (or both), \"remains a cause for tension\" within the community. Reformers have criticised the orthodox refusal to accept religious converts as one reason for the communities' declining population.\n\nZoroastrians have been criticized by Muslim authors for their rejection of predestination. This follows a famous hadith of Muhammad in which he negatively associates the Qadariyah Islamic sect with the Magians.\n\nZoroastrianism has been criticized for the perception that it promotes a patriarchal system, expressed through such avenues as an all-male priesthood and its historical allowance of polygamy—practiced by Zoroaster himself.\n"}
{"id": "43770376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43770376", "title": "Daniel Waterman", "text": "Daniel Waterman\n\nDaniel Waterman (born 1962) is a British philosopher, artist, writer, freelance researcher, locksmith and Ayahuasca provider, living in the Netherlands. He is the author of \"Entheogens, Society & Law: Towards a Politics of Consciousness, Autonomy & Responsibility\", edited by Casey William Hardison, and published in 2013.\n\nWaterman originally studied gold & silversmithing at the Vrije Academie Psychopolis in The Hague and Vakschool Schoonhoven , as well as graphic design and fashion and St. Joost Akademie voor de Beeldende Kunsten in Breda, from 1982 to 1986. Upon graduation, Waterman began traveling and developed an interest in the relationship between creativity, consciousness and health. In the 1990s he first came into contact with Santo Daime, a syncretic religious tradition from Brazil. Adherents consume a powerful psychoactive brew that catalyses altered or non-ordinary states of consciousness. Inspired by his experiences with ayahuasca, he subsequently traveled around the Amazon learning about native religious beliefs, mythology and healing practices. Waterman briefly worked as an instructor at the Usko-Ayar school of Amazonian Painting in Pucallpa, Peru, and collaborated with its founder, Don Pablo Amaringo, a mestizo \"curandero\" turned painter, teaching English, computer animation and drawing skills.\n\nThe September 2001 attacks on the Twin Towers in New York left a deep impression, prompting a critical inquiry into the relationship between consciousness, ethics and injustice. This inquiry ultimately led to the publication of a book, \"Entheogens, Society & Law: Towards a Politics of Consciousness, Autonomy and Responsibility\".\n\nIn 2001, having returned to the Netherlands, Waterman founded \"Ayahuasca Open Style\" a loose association of ayahuasca providers and participants that advocates a secular psychotherapeutic approach to the use of \"entheogenic\" technologies. Around this time he also began researching and writing \"Entheogens, Society and Law\" while working as an ayahuasca provider in the Netherlands and abroad.\n\nWaterman's first book \"Entheogens, Society & Law,\" (ESL) published by Melrose Books, Oxford in 2013, constitutes one of the most thorough non-academic critiques of contemporary discourses on entheogens and psychedelics to date, presenting an analysis of the role of magical thinking, moral and ideological preferences in the dissemination of conflicting interpretations of psychoactive plants, substances, their uses, users and effects. ESL covers important historical events such as Dutch psychiatrist Jan Bastiaan's use of LSD in the treatment of victims of Nazi persecution and the ensuing political debate in the Netherlands, landmark legal cases such as \"Gonzales v. O Centro Espirita Beneficente Uniao do Vegetal\" in the US and Santo Daime vs. Netherlands (2001), philosophical arguments, medical ethics, religious arguments, the influence of New Age beliefs, and finally takes a critical look at the role of Judeo-Christian moral concepts in the undermining of the relationship between spirituality and ethics in different areas of society.\n\nWaterman eschews all metaphysics and supernaturalism in the interpretation of the effects of psychoactive plants and substances. His theories are loosely based on the work of Czech psychiatrist Stanislav Grof who as one of the leading specialists on the clinical administration of LSD formulated theories linking the contents of psychedelic catalyzed states of consciousness to the birth process. Drawing on literature as diverse as Joseph Campbell's \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" and Otto Rank's \"Das Trauma der Geburt\", as well as the works of child psychologist Alice Miller, particularly her ideas about \"poisonous pedagogy\", and Stanley Milgram's research into the nature of authority and obedience, Waterman posits that \"all\" human experience, including religious and mystical states, can be traced back to the earliest stages of biological, cognitive and social development. He then goes on to posit a relationship between early cognitive and psychological development and culture in the production of ethical intuition and behaviour.\n\nAmongst others, Waterman and Hardison coined the phrase \"Responsibility Assignment Narrative.\" RAN's, they argue, constitute a specific function of language in the context of drugs discourse and policy making whereby key words and narratives serve to conceal the interests of the speaker. Speakers adopt an RAN to avoid responsibility or to blame others. The authors argue that concepts of responsibility — moral, legal and pragmatic — are founded on beliefs about free will and causality. These principle belong to what Thomas Nagel identifies as ‘absurdism,’ namely the principle that the ‘chain of justification,’ of what causes what, is never satisfactorily resolved either in psychological theory, or in physics. According to Waterman and Hardison:\n\nThe construction of responsibility or liability rests therefore in the identification of a range of possibilities, plausible causes or motives, and intuitions about their influence on human behaviour. The positive identification of original causes would require the isolation and separation of influences and events, something that is possible in theory alone. When we refer to responsibility, we refer therefore to narratives that explain and interpret causality, free will and hence responsibility as a basis for particular responses, cultural, legal, political. Our Responsibility Assignment Narrative ... is therefore not a critique of any specific interpretation of responsibility, as much as a critique of particular implementations of concepts such as free will or causality.\n\nWaterman has also argued against using Freedom of Religion arguments to defend the right to use \"mind-altering\" plants and substances. Instead, based on his arguments in ESL, Waterman advocates for inclusion of \"Cognitive Liberty\" in covenants on Human Rights. He argues that cognition is the de facto basis for all other rights which are founded on subjective experiences of \"happiness\" and \"freedom\" as recorded in the United States Constitution, the Bill of Rights etc. He also argues that the omission of cognitive liberty in Human Rights discourse is undermining the ability to apply Human Rights arguments in e.g. cases involving coercive administration of psychoactive substances such as Ritalin for ADHD.\n\n\"Entheogens, Society & Law\" was written over the course of thirteen years. It was produced in collaboration with Casey William Hardison who also edited the work. Hardison spent over nine years in a UK prison on charges of manufacturing a number of scheduled substances. ESL was edited during the last six years of his internment.\n\nIn 2001, Waterman founded Ayahuasca Open Style (AOS) as a secular alternative to religious style ayahuasca ceremonies such those of the Brazilian Santo Daime. Ayahuasca Open Style ceremonies have been held in the Netherlands (2001 ongoing), Israel (2003-2006), Spain (2006), Czechoslovakia (2007), and the UK (2010). The ceremonies differ significantly from the religious format adopted by traditional ayahuasca shamans and contemporary religious groups like the Santo Daime. AOS ceremonies have no formal structure and no official functions such as \"fiscal\" (sitter/caretaker) or \"commander\" (master of ceremonies in the Santo Daime tradition). Decisions concerning the duration of the ceremony and the type of musical accompaniment are taken collectively based on the preferences and needs of participants. AOS ceremonies are eclectic, incorporating methods from psychedelic psychotherapy, shamanism and a variety of religious traditions. To compensate for the lack of formal structure, participants are given a thorough interview beforehand and invited to share their experiences with other participants afterwards. As of 2012, AOS ceremonies have begun to be integrated with workshops on a wide range of topics including personal development, communication skills, writing and other forms of creative expression, ecology and transitioning and activism. The workshops aim to extend the transformational value of the ayahuasca ceremony by providing an opportunity for reflection and sharing on a wide range of ethical and existential problems impacting the lives of participants.\n\nAccording to Waterman, the secular anti-authoritarian format of AOS ceremonies eliminates the patriarchal authority encountered within formal psychotherapy, shamanism and religious traditions such as the Santo Daime. In his book, \"Entheogens, Society & Law\" Waterman suggests that the question of authority is fundamental to spiritual and ethical inquiry. By recreating the hierarchical structures prevalent in society, the traditional shamanic setting and the religious setting offered by the Santo Daime with its formal functions undermine participants ability to question authority. Consequently, the visionary power of entheogenic traditions is focused entirely on private experience and participants are not empowered to use their visionary experiences to explore the social, political and environmental relevance of their own experiences. The ability to use the visionary experience to acquire insights into almost every aspect of private and public life challenges, according to the author, the basis for the separation of Church and State which is founded on the idea that individuals are incapable of taking responsibility for their lives, either because they are inherently 'sinful' or because they do not possess the means to arrive at the ethical insights that are fundamental to the peace and harmony of society.\n\nWaterman is a staunch critic of Israel. Following the Israeli army's incursion into Gaza in 2009 he burned his passport and posted a video on YouTube. This earned him scathing condemnation from pro-Israeli activists. Together with his mother, Ruth Kupferschmidt, he co-signed an ad in the New York Times, (August 23, 2014) in which over 300 Holocaust survivors and their descendants unequivocally condemn the Israeli policies re Palestinians as \"Genocidal.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53116963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53116963", "title": "David Davies (Baptist minister)", "text": "David Davies (Baptist minister)\n\nDavid Davies born 2 March 1794, Steynton, Pembrokeshire, and christened (\"registered\") at Narberth (20.4.1794), where his father officiated. Like his father, David became a Welsh Baptist minister. He was the youngest of six known children of Benjamin (d. 1816) and Mary (née Owen). In 1818 he is known to have begun studying at Abergavenny Baptist College, and to have moved to study at Stepney Academy two years later. He was ordained, in 1822, as an assistant pastor at Evesham, before becoming pastor of the church. In 1837 he accepted an invitation to become minister of Bethesda Chapel, which his father founded, in Haverfordwest, and in 1839 was appointed head of the St. Thomas Green Baptist Academy there (which he is said to have founded). About this time he married - his wife being named Elizabeth, from Worcester. They are known to have had two daughters, born at Haverfordwest: Fanny Owen Davies (born 1839) and Mary A. Davies (born in the early 1840s). He died on 19 March 1856, Haverfordwest.\n\nFanny married a James Chance, at Old Swinford, on 27 December 1864. They ran a workhouse in Kings Norton, Worcs., where she was described as \"matron\". James died in 1877 and Fanny remarried to a Charles Cooke, at Epsom, in 1881. She died in 1883. Nothing more is presently known of her sister Mary.\n"}
{"id": "1920704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1920704", "title": "Doris Duke", "text": "Doris Duke\n\nDoris Duke (November 22, 1912 – October 28, 1993) was an American heiress, socialite, horticulturalist, art collector, and philanthropist.\n\nThe daughter of a wealthy tobacco tycoon, Duke was able to fund a life of global travel and wide-ranging interests. These extended across journalism, competition surfing, jazz piano, wildlife conservation, Oriental art and Hare Krishna.\n\nMuch of her work centered on her father's estate at Hillsborough Township, New Jersey, where she created many elaborately-themed gardens, furnished with artifacts acquired on her world travels, including one of America's largest indoor botanical displays. She was also active in preserving more than 80 historic buildings in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nTwice divorced, Duke enjoyed a colorful private life that was seldom out of the gossip columns.\n\nHer philanthropic work in AIDS research, medicine, and child welfare continued into her old age, some of it unknown to the public during her lifetime, and her estimated $1.3 billion fortune was largely left to charity. After much legal challenging of the executors and trustees, Duke's legacy is now administered by the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, dedicated to medical research, prevention of cruelty to children and animals, the performing arts, wildlife and ecology.\n\nDuke was born in New York City, the only child of tobacco and hydroelectric power tycoon James Buchanan Duke and his second wife, Nanaline Holt Inman, widow of Dr. William Patterson Inman. At his death in 1925, the elder Duke's will bequeathed the majority of his estate to his wife and daughter, along with $17 million in two separate clauses of the will, to The Duke Endowment he had created in 1924. The total value of the estate was not disclosed, but was estimated variously at $60 million to $100 million (equivalent to $ million to $ billion in ), the majority culled from J.B. Duke's holds in Lucky Strike cigarettes.\n\nDuke spent her early childhood at Duke Farms, her father's estate in Hillsborough Township, New Jersey. Due to ambiguity in James Duke's will, a lawsuit was filed to prevent auctions and outright sales of real estate he had owned; in effect, Doris Duke successfully sued her mother and other executors to prevent the sales. One of the pieces of real estate in question was a Manhattan mansion at 1 East 78th Street which later became the home of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.\n\nShe was presented to society as a debutante in 1930, aged 18, at a ball at Rough Point, the family residence in Newport, Rhode Island. She received large bequests from her father's will when she turned 21, 25, and 30; she was sometimes referred to as the \"world's richest girl.\" Her mother died in 1962, leaving her jewelry and a coat.\n\nWhen Duke came of age, she used her wealth to pursue a variety of interests, including extensive world travel and the arts. During World War II, she worked in a canteen for sailors in Egypt, taking a salary of one dollar a year. She spoke French fluently. In 1945, Duke began a short-lived career as a foreign correspondent for the International News Service, reporting from different cities across the war-ravaged Europe. After the war, she moved to Paris and wrote for the magazine \"Harper's Bazaar\".\n\nWhile living in Hawaii, Duke became the first non-Hawaiian woman to take up competitive surfing under the tutelage of surfing champion and Olympic swimmer Duke Kahanamoku and his brothers. A lover of animals, in particular her dogs and pet camels, in her later years Duke became a wildlife refuge supporter, an environmental conservationist, and a patron of historic preservation.\n\nDuke's interest in horticulture led to a friendship with Pulitzer Prize-winning author and scientific farmer Louis Bromfield, who operated Malabar Farm, his country home in Lucas, Ohio in Richland County. Today, his farm is part of Malabar Farm State Park, made possible by a donation from Duke that helped purchase the property after Bromfield's death. A section of woods there is dedicated to her and bears her name.\n\nAt age 46, Duke started to create Duke Gardens, an exotic public-display garden, to honor her father James Buchanan Duke. She extended new greenhouses from the Horace Trumbauer conservatory at her home in Duke Farms, New Jersey. Each of the eleven interconnected gardens was a full-scale re-creation of a garden theme, country or period, inspired by DuPont's Longwood Gardens. She designed the architectural, artistic and botanical elements of the displays based on observations from her extensive international travels. She also labored on their installation, sometimes working 16-hour days. Display construction began in 1958.\n\nDuke had learned to play the piano at an early age and developed a lifelong appreciation of jazz and befriended jazz musicians. She also liked gospel music and sang in a gospel choir.\n\nIn 1966, Duke was behind the wheel of a rented car when it lurched forward and crushed interior designer Eduardo Tirella as he was opening the gates of the mansion they were restoring in Newport, Rhode Island. While it was ruled a freak accident by the police, Tirella's family sued and won $75,000 when Duke was found negligent.\n\nDuke acquired a number of homes. Her principal residence and official domicile was Duke Farms, her father's 2,700 acre (11 km²) estate in Hillsborough Township, New Jersey. Here she created Duke Gardens, public indoor botanical display that were among the largest in America.\n\nDuke's other residences were private during her lifetime: she spent summer weekends working on her Newport Restoration Foundation projects while staying at Rough Point, the 49-room English manor-style mansion that she inherited in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nWinters were spent at an estate she built in the 1930s and named \"Shangri La\" in Honolulu, Hawaii; and at \"Falcon Lair\" in Beverly Hills, California, once the home of Rudolph Valentino. She also maintained two apartments in Manhattan: a 9-room penthouse with a veranda at 475 Park Avenue that is currently owned by journalist Cindy Adams; and another apartment near Times Square that she used exclusively as an office for the management of her financial affairs.\n\nShe purchased her own Boeing 737 jet and redecorated the interior to travel between homes and on her trips to collect art and plants. The plane included a bedroom decorated to resemble a bedroom in a real house. Doris Duke had difficulty remaining in one place, and whenever she arrived somewhere, she had the desire to go somewhere else.\n\nDuke was a hands-on homeowner, climbing a ladder to a three-story scaffolding to clean tile murals in the courtyard of Shangri La, and working side by side with her gardeners at Duke Farms.\n\nThree of Duke's residences are currently managed by subsidiaries of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation and allow limited public access. Duke Farms in New Jersey is managed by the Duke Farms Foundation; a video tour of former Duke Gardens is available. Rough Point was deeded to the Newport Restoration Foundation in 1999 and opened to the public in 2000. Tours are limited to 12 people. Shangri-La is operated by the Doris Duke Foundation for Islamic Art; small personal tours and an online virtual tour are available.\n\nDuke married twice, the first time in 1935 to James H. R. Cromwell, the son of Palm Beach society doyenne Eva Stotesbury. Cromwell, a New Deal advocate like his wife, used her fortune to finance his political career. In 1940 he served several months as U.S. Ambassador to Canada and ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate. The couple had a daughter, Arden, who died one day after her birth. They divorced in 1943.\n\nOn September 1, 1947, while in Paris, Duke became the third wife of Porfirio Rubirosa, a diplomat from the Dominican Republic. She reportedly paid his second wife, actress Danielle Darrieux, $1 million to agree to an uncontested divorce. Because of her great wealth, Duke's marriage to Rubirosa attracted the attention of the U.S. State Department, which cautioned her against using her money to promote political agenda. Further, there was concern that in the event of her death, a foreign government could gain too much leverage. Therefore, Rubirosa had to sign a pre-nuptial agreement; during the marriage, though, she gave Rubirosa several million dollars in gifts, including a stable of polo ponies, sports cars, a converted B-25 bomber, and, in the divorce settlement, a 17th-century house in Paris. One of Doris Duke's best friends was Brazilian socialite and \"jetsetter\" Aimée de Heeren.\n\nShe reportedly had numerous affairs, with, among others, Duke Kahanamoku, Errol Flynn, Alec Cunningham-Reid, General George S. Patton, Joe Castro, and Louis Bromfield.\n\nDuke posted a bail of $5,000,000 for her friend, former Philippine First Lady Imelda Marcos after the latter was arrested for racketeering.\n\nIn 1992, at the age of 79, Duke had a facelift. She began trying to walk while she was still heavily medicated and fell, breaking her hip. In January 1993, she underwent surgery for a knee replacement. She was hospitalized from February 2 to April 15. She underwent a second knee surgery in July of that year.\n\nA day after returning home from this second surgery, she suffered a severe stroke. Doris Duke died at her Falcon's Lair home on October 28, 1993, at the age of 80. The cause was progressive pulmonary edema resulting in cardiac arrest, according to a spokesman.\n\nDuke was cremated 24 hours after her death and her executor, Bernard Lafferty, scattered her ashes into the Pacific Ocean as her last will specified.\n\nWhen Doris' father died, he left a fortune valued at $100 million, with the largest share going to Duke and her mother. Nanaline was a shrewd businesswoman, often compared to Hetty Green, and when she died in 1962, she left her daughter, then estimated to be worth $250 million, a fortune triple what J. B. had left her.\n\nDuke also owned numerous shares in big-name companies, such as General Motors, and had a large financial team of bankers and accountants to manage her holdings (since, despite rumors, Duke had little to no interest in money matters). In addition, Duke had a collection of artwork, which was said to include works by Picasso, Van Gogh, Rembrandt and Monet, as well as her valuable collection of Islamic and Southeast Asia art and furniture. Also in Duke's collection were over 2,000 bottles of rare wine (worth over $5 million) and the extraordinary Duke collection of fine jewels. Her total net worth, including all property, was valued at $5.3 billion.\n\nDuke’s first major philanthropic act was to establish Independent Aid, Inc., in 1934, when she was 21 years old, in order to manage the many requests for financial assistance addressed to her. In 1958, she established the Duke Gardens Foundation to endow the public display gardens she started to create at Duke Farms. Her Foundation intended that Duke Gardens \"reveal the interests and philanthropic aspirations of the Duke family, as well as an appreciation for other cultures and a yearning for global understanding.\". Duke Gardens were the center of a controversy over the decision by the trustees of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation to close them on May 25, 2008.\n\nIn 1968, Duke created the Newport Restoration Foundation with the goal of preserving more than eighty colonial buildings in the town. Historic properties include Rough Point, Samuel Whitehorne House, Prescott Farm, the Buloid-Perry House, the King's Arms Tavern, the Baptist Meetinghouse, and the Cotton House. Seventy-one buildings are rented to tenants. Only five function as museums. She also funded the construction of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's ashram in India, visited by the Beatles in 1968. \nDuke's extensive travels led to an interest in a variety of cultures, and during her lifetime she amassed a considerable collection of Islamic and Southeast Asian art. After her death, numerous pieces were donated to The Asian Art Museum of San Francisco and the Walters Art Museum of Baltimore.\n\nDuke did much additional philanthropic work and was a major benefactor of medical research and child welfare programs. In the late 1980s, Duke donated $2 million to Duke University to be used for AIDS research. Her foundation, Independent Aid, became the Doris Duke Foundation, which still exists as a private grant-making entity. After her death, the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation was established in 1996, supporting four national grant making programs and Doris Duke's three estates, Shangri La, Rough Point, and Duke Farms.\n\nDuke was the life beneficiary of two trusts created by her father, James Buchanan Duke, in 1917 and 1924. The income from the trusts was payable to any children after her death. In 1988, at the age of 75, Duke legally adopted a woman named Chandi Heffner, then a 35-year-old Hare Krishna devotee and sister of the third wife of billionaire Nelson Peltz. Duke initially maintained that Heffner was the reincarnation of her only biological child Arden, who died soon after birth in 1940.\n\nThe two women had a falling out, and the final version of Duke's will specified that she did not wish Heffner to benefit from her father's trusts; she also negated the adoption. Despite the negation, after Duke's death, the estate's trustees settled a lawsuit brought by Heffner for $65 million.\n\nIn her final will, Duke left virtually all of her fortune to several existing and new charitable foundations. She appointed her butler, Bernard Lafferty born in Creeslough, County Donegal, Ireland, as executor of her estate. Lafferty appointed the US Trust company as corporate co-executor. Lafferty and Duke's friend Marion Oates Charles were named as her trustees.\n\nHowever a number of lawsuits were filed against the will. At death, Duke's fortune was estimated at upwards of $1.2 billion. The best-known lawsuit was initiated by Harry Demopoulos. In an earlier will, Demopoulos had been named executor and challenged Lafferty's appointment. Demopolous argued that Lafferty and his lawyers had cajoled a sick, sedated old woman into giving him control of her estate.\n\nEven more sensational accusations were made by a nurse, Tammy Payette, who contended that Lafferty and a prominent Beverly Hills physician, Dr. Charles Kivowitz, had conspired to hasten Duke's death with morphine and Demerol. In 1996, the year Lafferty died, the Los Angeles District Attorney's office ruled there was no firm evidence of foul play.\n\nDuke University also filed suit, claiming entitlement to a larger share of the Duke assets than the $10 million provided in the will (although Duke's will also stated that any beneficiary who disputed its provisions should receive nothing).\n\nLitigation involving 40 lawyers at 10 different law firms tied up the Duke estate for nearly three years. New York courts ultimately removed Lafferty for using estate funds for his own support and US Trust for failing \"to do anything to stop him.\" The Surrogate Court of Manhattan overrode Duke's will and appointed new trustees from among those who had challenged it: Harry Demopoulos; J. Carter Brown (later also involved in overturning the will of Albert C. Barnes); Marion Oates Charles, the sole trustee from Duke's last will; James Gill, a lawyer; Nannerl O. Keohane, president of Duke University; and John J. Mack, president of Morgan Stanley. The fees for their lawsuits exceeded $10 million, and were paid by the Duke estate. These trustees now control all assets of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, which Doris Duke directed should support medical research, anti-vivisectionism, prevention of cruelty to children and animals, performance arts, wildlife, and ecology.\n\nThe DDCF also controls funding for the three separate foundations created to operate Duke's former homes: the Doris Duke Foundation for Islamic Art, Duke Farms and Newport Restoration Foundation. The trustees have progressively reduced funding for these foundations, stating that Doris Duke's own works are \"perpetuating the Duke family history of personal passions and conspicuous consumption.\" Recently, these foundations have sold some assets and have closed Duke Gardens. Christie's, New York, published a heavily illustrated catalog of over 600 pages for its auction of \"The Doris Duke Collection, sold to benefit the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation\" which was held in New York City over three days in 2004.\n\nSeveral biographies of Duke have been published, notably:\n\n\nSeveral films/television shows has been made about her life, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37926233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37926233", "title": "Eknathi Bhagwat", "text": "Eknathi Bhagwat\n\nEknathi Bhagwat is a book written by Sant Eknath of the Marathi faith. This is major work of Varkari Sampradaya. Eknath had begun writing the Eknathi Bhagwat in Paithan finishing it in Varanasi.\n\n"}
{"id": "7020690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7020690", "title": "God in the Bahá'í Faith", "text": "God in the Bahá'í Faith\n\nThe Bahá'í view of God is essentially monotheistic. God is the imperishable, uncreated being who is the source of all existence. He is described as \"a personal God, unknowable, inaccessible, the source of all Revelation, eternal, omniscient, omnipresent and almighty\". Though transcendent and inaccessible directly, his image is reflected in his creation. The purpose of creation is for the created to have the capacity to know and love its creator. God communicates his will and purpose to humanity through intermediaries, known as Manifestations of God, who are the prophets and messengers that have founded religions from prehistoric times up to the present day.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that there is only one God and that his essence is absolutely inaccessible from the physical realm of existence and that, therefore, his reality is completely unknowable. Thus, all of humanity's conceptions of God which have been derived throughout history are mere manifestations of the human mind and not at all reflective of the nature of God's essence. While God's essence is inaccessible, a subordinate form of knowledge is available by way of mediation by divine messengers, known as Manifestations of God. The Manifestations of God reflect divine attributes, which are creations of God made for the purpose of spiritual enlightenment, onto the physical plane of existence. All physical beings reflect at least one of these attributes, and the human soul can potentially reflect all of them. Shoghi Effendi, the head of the Bahá'í Faith in the first half of the 20th century, described God as inaccessible, omniscient, almighty, personal, and rational, and rejected pantheistic, anthropomorphic and incarnationist beliefs.\n\nAlthough human cultures and religions differ on their conceptions of God and his nature, Bahá'ís believe they nevertheless refer to one and the same Being. The differences, instead of being regarded as irreconcilable constructs of mutually exclusive cultures, are seen as purposefully reflective of the varying needs of the societies in which the divine messages were revealed. No single faith, and associated conception of God, is thus considered essentially superior to another from the viewpoint of its original social context; however, more recent religions may teach a more advanced conception of God as called for by the changing needs of local, regional or global civilization. Bahá'ís thus regard the world's religions as chapters in the history of one single faith, revealed by God's Manifestations progressively and in stages. Bahá'u'lláh writes on this subject:\n\nAll-praise to the unity of God, and all-honour to Him, the sovereign Lord, the incomparable and all-glorious Ruler of the universe, Who, out of utter nothingness, hath created the reality of all things, Who, from naught, hath brought into being the most refined and subtle elements of His creation, and Who, rescuing His creatures from the abasement of remoteness and the perils of ultimate extinction, hath received them into His kingdom of incorruptible glory. Nothing short of His all-encompassing grace, His all-pervading mercy, could have possibly achieved it.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that God is too great for humans to create an accurate conception of. In the Bahá'í understanding, the attributes attributed to God, such as \"All-Powerful\" and \"All-Loving\" are derived from limited human experiences of power and love. Bahá'u'lláh taught that the knowledge of God is limited to those attributes and qualities which are perceptible to us, and thus direct knowledge of God is not possible. Furthermore, Bahá'u'lláh states that knowledge of the attributes of God is revealed to humanity through his messengers.\n\nSo perfect and comprehensive is His creation that no mind or heart, however keen or pure, can ever grasp the nature of the most insignificant of His creatures; much less fathom the mystery of Him Who is the Day Star of Truth, Who is the invisible and unknowable Essence...\n\nAs our knowledge of things, even of created and limited things, is knowledge of their qualities and not of their essence, how is it possible to comprehend in its essence the Divine Reality, which is unlimited? ... Knowing God, therefore, means the comprehension and the knowledge of His attributes, and not of His Reality. This knowledge of the attributes is also proportioned.\n\nWhile the Bahá'í writings teach of a personal god who is a being with a personality (including the capacity to reason and to feel love), they clearly state that this does not imply a human or physical form. Shoghi Effendi writes:\n\nWhat is meant by personal God is a God Who is conscious of His creation, Who has a Mind, a Will, a Purpose, and not, as many scientists and materialists believe, an unconscious and determined force operating in the universe. Such conception of the Divine Being, as the Supreme and ever present Reality in the world, is not anthropomorphic, for it transcends all human limitations and forms, and does by no means attempt to define the essence of Divinity which is obviously beyond any human comprehension. To say that God is a personal Reality does not mean that He has a physical form, or does in any way resemble a human being. To entertain such belief would be sheer blasphemy.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that one can develop a closer relationship with God through prayer, meditation, study of the holy writings, and service to humanity. `Abdu'l-Bahá writes\n\nTherefore, we learn that nearness to God is possible through devotion to Him, through entrance into the Kingdom and service to humanity; it is attained by unity with mankind and through loving-kindness to all; it is dependent upon investigation of truth, acquisition of praiseworthy virtues, service in the cause of universal peace and personal sanctification.\n\nBahá'ís believe that God expresses his will at all times and in many ways, and specifically through a series of divine messengers referred to as Manifestations of God or sometimes \"divine educators\". In revealing God's will, these Manifestations establish religion in the world. Since the Bahá'í teachings state that God is too great for humans to ever comprehend or to create more than a limited conception of, the Bahá'í scripture instead focuses on the created divine virtues and attributes which are described in the teachings of the Manifestations. Examples of divine attributes described in Bahá'í scripture include Almighty, All-Powerful, All-loving, All-Merciful, Most-Compassionate, All-Glorious. The Manifestations of God are analogous to divine mirrors which reflect God's created attributes and thus reveal aspects of God without being incarnations of God's essence. It is through these divine educators that humans can approach God, and through them God brings divine revelation and law.\n\nThe Bahá'í scriptures often refer to God by various titles and attributes, such as Almighty, All-Powerful, All-Wise, Incomparable, Gracious, Helper, All-Glorious, and Omniscient. Baha'is believe the greatest of all the names of God is \"All-Glorious\" or \"Bahá\" in Arabic. \"Bahá\" is the root word of the following names and phrases: the greeting \"Alláh-u-Abhá\" (God is the All-Glorious), the invocation \"Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá\" (O Thou Glory of the Most Glorious), \"Bahá'u'lláh\" (The Glory of God), and \"Bahá'i\" (Follower of the All-Glorious). These are expressed in Arabic regardless of the language in use (see Bahá'í symbols). Apart from these names, God is addressed in the local language, for example \"Ishwar\" in Hindi, \"Dieu\" in French and \"Dios\" in Spanish. Bahá'ís believe Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, is the \"complete incarnation of the names and attributes of God\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "774727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=774727", "title": "Greco-Buddhist art", "text": "Greco-Buddhist art\n\nGreco-Buddhist art is the artistic manifestation of Greco-Buddhism, a cultural syncretism between the Classical Greek culture and Buddhism, which developed over a period of close to 1,000 years in Central Asia, between the conquests of Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC, and the Islamic conquests of the 7th century AD. Greco-Buddhist art is characterized by the strong idealistic realism and sensuous description of Hellenistic art and the first representations of the Buddha in human form, which have helped define the artistic (and particularly, sculptural) canon for Buddhist art throughout the Asian continent up to the present. It is also a strong example of cultural syncretism between eastern and western traditions.\n\nThe origins of Greco-Buddhist art are to be found in the Hellenistic Greco-Bactrian kingdom (250–130 BC), located in today’s Afghanistan, from which Hellenistic culture radiated into the Indian subcontinent with the establishment of the Indo-Greek kingdom (180–10 BC). Under the Indo-Greeks and then the Kushans, the interaction of Greek and Buddhist culture flourished in the area of Gandhara, in today’s northern Pakistan, before spreading further into India, influencing the art of Mathura, and then the Hindu art of the Gupta empire, which was to extend to the rest of South-East Asia. The influence of Greco-Buddhist art also spread northward towards Central Asia, strongly affecting the art of the Tarim Basin, and ultimately the arts of China, Korea, and Japan.\n\nPowerful Hellenistic states were established in the areas of Bactria and Sogdiana, and later northern India for three centuries following the conquests of Alexander the Great around 330 BC, the Seleucid empire until 250 BC, followed by the Greco-Bactrian kingdom until 130 BC, and the Indo-Greek kingdom from 180 BC to around 10 BC.\n\nThe clearest examples of Hellenistic art are found in the coins of the Greco-Bactrian kings of the period, such as Demetrius I of Bactria. Many coins of the Greco-Bactrian kings have been unearthed, including the largest silver and gold coins ever minted in the Hellenistic world, ranking among the best in artistic and technical sophistication: they \"show a degree of individuality never matched by the often more bland descriptions of their royal contemporaries further West\". (\"Greece and the Hellenistic world\").\nThese Hellenistic kingdoms established cities on the Greek model, such as in Ai-Khanoum in Bactria, displaying purely Hellenistic architectural features, Hellenistic statuary, and remains of Aristotelician papyrus prints and coin hoards.\n\nThese Greek elements penetrated India quite early as shown by the Hellenistic Pataliputra capital (3rd century BC), but the influence became especially strong, particularly in northwestern India, following the invasion of the Greco-Bactrians in 180 BC, when they established the Indo-Greek kingdom in India. Fortified Greek cities, such as Sirkap in northern Pakistan, were established. Architectural styles used Hellenistic decorative motifs such as fruit garland and scrolls. Stone palettes for aromatic oils representing purely Hellenistic themes such as a Nereid riding a Ketos sea monster are found.\n\nIn Hadda, Hellenistic deities, such as Atlas are found. Wind gods are depicted, which will affect the representation of wind deities as far as Japan. Dionysiac scenes represent people in Classical style drinking wine from amphoras and playing instruments.\n\nThe Greeks in Asia are well known archaeologically for their stone palettes, also called \"toilet trays\", round trays commonly found in the areas of Bactria and Gandhara, which usually represent Greek mythological scenes. The earliest of them are attributed to the Indo-Greek period in the 2nd and 1st century BCE (a few were retrieved from the Indo-Greek stratum No.5 at Sirkap). Production continued until the time of the Indo-Parthians, but they practically disappeared after the 1st century.\nAs soon as the Greeks invaded Northwestern South Asia to form the Indo-Greek kingdom, a fusion of Hellenistic and Buddhist elements started to appear, encouraged by the benevolence of the Greek kings towards Buddhism. This artistic trend then developed for several centuries and seemed to flourish further during the Kushan Empire from the 1st century AD.\n\nAccording to some authors, Hellenistic sculptors had some connection with the creation of Buddhist art at Sanchi and Bharhut. The structure as a whole as well as various elements point to Hellenistic and other foreign influence, such as the fluted bell, addorsed capital of the Persepolitan order, and the abundant use of the Hellenistic flame palmette or honeysuckle motif.\n\nAround 115 BC, the embassy of Heliodorus from king Antialkidas to the court of the Sungas king Bhagabhadra in Vidisha is recorded. In the Sunga capital, Heliodorus established the Heliodorus pillar in a dedication to Vāsudeva. This would indicate that relations between the Indo-Greeks and the Sungas had improved by that time, that people traveled between the two realms, and also that the Indo-Greeks readily followed Indian religions.\n\nAlso around the same time, circa 115 BC, it is known that architectural decorations such as decorative reliefs started to be introduced at nearby Sanchi, 6 km away from Vidisha, by craftsmen from the area of Gandhara, a central Indo-Greek region. Typically, the earliest medallions at Sanchi Stupa No.2 are dated to 115 BC, while the more extensive pillar carvings are dated to 80 BC. These early decorative reliefs were apparently the work of craftsmen from the northwest (around the area of Gandhara), since they left mason's marks in Kharoshthi, as opposed to the local Brahmi script. This seems to imply that these foreign workers were responsible for some of the earliest motifs and figures that can be found on the railings of the stupa.\n\nCraftsmen from the Gandhara area, a central region of the Indo-Greek realm, are known to have been involved in the construction of the gateways at Bharhut, which are dated to 100-75 BC: this is because mason's marks in Kharosthi have been found on several elements of the Bharhut remains, indicating that some of the builders at least came from the north, particularly from Gandhara where the Kharoshti script was in use.\nCunningham explained that between the architraves of the gateway, but none on the railings which all had Indian markings, summarizing that the gateways, which are artistically more refined, must have been made by artists from the North, whereas the railings were made by local artists. The Bharhut gateway is dated to 100-75 BC (most probably 75 BC based on artistic analysis).\n\nThe structure as a whole as well as various elements point to Hellenistic and other foreign influence, such as the fluted bell, addorsed capital of the Persepolitan order, and the abundant use of the Hellenistic flame palmette or honeysuckle motif.\n\nLater, Greco-Buddhist art depicts the life of the Buddha in a visual manner, probably by incorporating the real-life models and concepts which were available to the artists of the period.\n\nThe Bodhisattvas are depicted as bare-chested and jewelled Indian princes, and the Buddhas as Greek kings wearing the light toga-like himation. The buildings in which they are depicted incorporate Greek style, with the ubiquitous Indo-Corinthian capitals and Greek decorative scrolls. Surrounding deities form a pantheon of Greek (Atlas, Herakles) and Indian gods (Indra).\n\nStucco as well as stone was widely used by sculptors in Gandhara for the decoration of monastic and cult buildings. Stucco provided the artist with a medium of great plasticity, enabling a high degree of expressiveness to be given to the sculpture. Sculpting in stucco was popular wherever Buddhism spread from Gandhara - India, Afghanistan, Central Asia and China.\n\nStylistically, Greco-Buddhist art started by being extremely fine and realistic, as apparent on the standing Buddhas, with \"a realistic treatment of the folds and on some even a hint of modelled volume that characterizes the best Greek work\" (Boardman). It then lost this sophisticated realism, becoming progressively more symbolic and decorative over the centuries.\n\nThe presence of stupas at the Greek city of Sirkap, which was built by Demetrius around 180 BC, already indicates a strong syncretism between Hellenism and the Buddhist faith, together with other religions such as Hinduism and Zoroastrianism. The style is Greek, adorned with Corinthian columns in excellent Hellenistic execution.\n\nLater in Hadda, the Greek divinity Atlas is represented holding Buddhist monuments with decorated Greek columns. The motif was adopted extensively throughout the Indian sub-continent, Atlas being substituted for the Indian Yaksa in the monuments of the Shunga Empire around the 2nd century BC.\n\nSometime between the 2nd century BC and the 1st century AD, the first anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha were developed. These were absent from earlier strata of Buddhist art, which preferred to represent the Buddha with symbols such as the stupa, the Bodhi tree, the empty seat, the wheel, or the footprints. But the innovative anthropomorphic Buddha image immediately reached a very high level of sculptural sophistication, naturally inspired by the sculptural styles of Hellenistic Greece.\n\nMany of the stylistic elements in the representations of the Buddha point to Greek influence: the Greek himation (a light toga-like wavy robe covering both shoulders: Buddhist characters are always represented with a dhoti loincloth before this innovation), the halo, the contrapposto stance of the upright figures, the stylized Mediterranean curly hair and top-knot apparently derived from the style of the Belvedere Apollo (330 BC), and the measured quality of the faces, all rendered with strong artistic realism (See: Greek art). Some of the standing Buddhas (as the one pictured) were sculpted using the specific Greek technique of making the hands and sometimes the feet in marble to increase the realistic effect, and the rest of the body in another material.\n\nFoucher especially considered Hellenistic free-standing Buddhas as \"the most beautiful, and probably the most ancient of the Buddhas\", assigning them to the 1st century BC, and making them the starting point of the anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha (\"The Buddhist art of Gandhara\", Marshall, p101).\n\nThere is some debate regarding the exact date for the development of the anthropomorphic representation of the Buddha, and this has a bearing on whether the innovation came directly from the Indo-Greeks, or was a later development by the Indo-Scythians, the Indo-Parthians or the Kushans under Hellenistic artistic influence. Most of the early images of the Buddha (especially those of the standing Buddha) are anepigraphic, which makes it difficult to have a definite dating. The earliest known image of the Buddha with approximate indications on date is the Bimaran casket, which has been found buried with coins of the Indo-Scythian king Azes II (or possibly Azes I), indicating a 30–10 BC date, although this date is not undisputed.\n\nSuch datation, as well as the general Hellenistic style and attitude of the Buddha on the Bimaran casket (himation dress, contrapposto attitude, general depiction) would make it a possible Indo-Greek work, used in dedications by Indo-Scythians soon after the end of Indo-Greek rule in the area of Gandhara. Since it already displays quite a sophisticated iconography (Brahma and Śakra as attendants, Bodhisattvas) in an advanced style, it would suggest much earlier representations of the Buddha were already current by that time, going back to the rule of the Indo-Greeks (Alfred A. Foucher and others).\n\nThe next Greco-Buddhist findings to be strictly datable are rather late, such as the c. AD 120 Kanishka casket and Kanishka's Buddhist coins. These works at least indicate though that the anthropomorphic representation of the Buddha was already extant in the 1st century AD.\n\nFrom another direction, Chinese historical sources and mural paintings in the Tarim Basin city of Dunhuang accurately describe the travels of the explorer and ambassador Zhang Qian to Central Asia as far as Bactria around 130 BC, and the same murals describe the Emperor Han Wudi (156–87 BC) worshipping Buddhist statues, explaining them as \"golden men brought in 120 BC by a great Han general in his campaigns against the nomads.\" Although there is no other mention of Han Wudi worshipping the Buddha in Chinese historical literature, the murals would suggest that statues of the Buddha were already in existence during the 2nd century BC, connecting them directly to the time of the Indo-Greeks.\n\nLater, the Chinese historical chronicle Hou Hanshu describes the enquiry about Buddhism made around AD 67 by the emperor Emperor Ming (AD 58–75). He sent an envoy to the Yuezhi in northwestern India, who brought back paintings and statues of the Buddha, confirming their existence before that date:\n\nAn Indo-Chinese tradition also explains that Nagasena, also known as Menander's Buddhist teacher, created in 43 BC in the city of Pataliputra a statue of the Buddha, the Emerald Buddha, which was later brought to Thailand.\n\nIn Gandharan art, the Buddha is often shown under the protection of the Greek god Herakles, standing with his club (and later a diamond rod) resting over his arm. This unusual representation of Herakles is the same as the one on the back of Demetrius' coins, and it is exclusively associated to him (and his son Euthydemus II), seen only on the back of his coins.\n\nSoon, the figure of the Buddha was incorporated within architectural designs, such as Corinthian pillars and friezes. Scenes of the life of the Buddha are typically depicted in a Greek architectural environment, with protagonist wearing Greek clothes.\nDeities from the Greek mythological pantheon also tend to be incorporated in Buddhist representations, displaying a strong syncretism. In particular, Herakles (of the type of the Demetrius coins, with club resting on the arm) has been used abundantly as the representation of Vajrapani, the protector of the Buddha. Other Greek deities abundantly used in Greco-Buddhist art are representation of Atlas, and the Greek wind god Boreas. Atlas in particular tends to be involved as a sustaining elements in Buddhist architectural elements. Boreas became the Japanese wind god Fujin through the Greco-Buddhist Wardo. The mother deity Hariti was inspired by Tyche.\n\nParticularly under the Kushans, there are also numerous representations of richly adorned, princely Bodhisattvas all in a very realistic Greco-Buddhist style. The Bodhisattvas, characteristic of the Mahayana form of Buddhism, are represented under the traits of Kushan princes, completed with their canonical accessories.\n\nWinged cupids are another popular motif in Greco-Buddhist art. They usually fly in pair, holding a wreath, the Greek symbol of victory and kingship, over the Buddha.\n\nThese figures, also known as \"apsarases\" were extensively adopted in Buddhist art, especially throughout Eastern Asia, in forms derivative to the Greco-Buddhist representation. The progressive evolution of the style can be seen in the art of Qizil and Dunhuang. It is unclear however if the concept of the flying cupids was brought to India from the West, of if it had an independent Indian origin, although Boardman considers it a Classical contribution: \"Another Classical motif we found in India is the pair of hovering winged figures, generally called apsaras.\" (Boardman)\n\nScenes of cupids holding rich garlands, sometimes adorned with fruits, is another very popular Gandharan motif, directly inspired from Greek art. It is sometimes argued that the only concession to Indian art appears in the anklets worn by the cupids. These scenes had a very broad influence, as far as Amaravati on the eastern coast of India, where the cupids are replaced by yakṣas.\n\nSome Greco-Buddhist friezes represent groups of donors or devotees, giving interesting insights into the cultural identity of those who participated in the Buddhist cult.\n\nSome groups, often described as the \"Buner reliefs,\" usually dated to the 1st century AD, depict Greeks in perfect Hellenistic style, either in posture, rendering, or clothing (wearing the Greek chiton and himation). It is sometimes even difficult to perceive an actual religious message behind the scenes. (The devotee scene on the right might, with doubt, depict of the presentation of Prince Siddharta to his bride. It may also just be a festive scene.)\n\nAbout a century later, friezes also depict Kushan devotees, usually with the Buddha as the central figure.\n\nVarious fantastic animal deities of Hellenic origin were used as decorative elements in Buddhist temples, often triangular friezes in staircases or in front of Buddhist altars. The origin of these motifs can be found in Greece in the 5th century BC, and later in the designs of Greco-Bactrian perfume trays as those discovered in Sirkap. Among the most popular fantastic animals are tritons, ichthyo-centaurs and ketos sea-monsters. It should be noted that similar fantastic animals are found in ancient Egyptian reliefs, and might therefore have been passed on to Bactria and India independently of Greek imperialism.\n\nAs fantastic animals of the sea, they were, in early Buddhism, supposed to safely bring the souls of dead people to Paradise beyond the waters. These motifs were later adopted in Indian art, where they influenced the depiction of the Indian monster makara, Varuna's mount.\nThe later part of Greco-Buddhist art in northwestern India is usually associated with the Kushan Empire. The Kushans were nomadic people who started migrating from the Tarim Basin in Central Asia from around 170 BC and ended up founding an empire in northwestern India from the 2nd century BC. After conquering the lands once inhabited by Greco-Bactrians and Indo-Greeks, the Kushan Empire adopted Greco-Buddhist art.\n\nExamples of the influence of Hellenistic or Greco-Buddhist art on the art of the Shunga Empire (183-73 BC) are usually faint. The main religion, at least at the beginning, seems to have been Brahmanic Hinduism, although some late Buddhist realizations in Madhya Pradesh as also known, such as some architectural expansions that were done at the stupas of Sanchi and Bharhut, originally started under King Ashoka.\n\nThe representations of the Buddha in Mathura, in central northern India, are generally dated slightly later than those of Gandhara, although not without debate, and are also much less numerous. Up to that point, Indian Buddhist art had essentially been aniconic, avoiding representation of the Buddha, except for his symbols, such as the wheel or the Bodhi tree, although some archaic Mathuran sculptural representation of Yaksas (earth divinities) have been dated to the 1st century BC. Even these Yaksas indicate some Hellenistic influence, possibly dating back to the occupation of Mathura by the Indo-Greeks during the 2nd century BC.\n\nIn terms of artistic predispositions for the first representations of the Buddha, Greek art provided a very natural and centuries-old background for an anthropomorphic representation of a divinity, while on the contrary \"there was nothing in earlier Indian statuary to suggest such a treatment of form or dress, and the Hindu pantheon provided no adequate model for an aristocratic and wholly human deity\" (Boardman).\nThe Mathura sculptures incorporate many Hellenistic elements, such as the general idealistic realism, and key design elements such as the curly hair, and folded garment. Specific Mathuran adaptations tend to reflect warmer climatic conditions, as they consist in a higher fluidity of the clothing, which progressively tend to cover only one shoulder instead of both. Also, facial types also tend to become more Indianized. Banerjee in \"Hellenism in ancient India\" describes \"the mixed character of the Mathura School in which we find on the one hand, a direct continuation of the old Indian art of Bharhut and Sanchi and on the other hand, the classical influence derived from Gandhara\".\n\nThe influence of Greek art can be felt beyond Mathura, as far as Amaravati on the East coast of India, as shown by the usage of Greek scrolls in combination with Indian deities. Other motifs such as Greek chariots pulled by four horses can also be found in the same area.\n\nIncidentally, Hindu art started to develop from the 1st to the 2nd century AD and found its first inspiration in the Buddhist art of Mathura. It progressively incorporated a profusion of original Hindu stylistic and symbolic elements however, in contrast with the general balance and simplicity of Buddhist art.\n\nThe art of Mathura features frequent sexual imagery. Female images with bare breasts, nude below the waist, displaying labia and female genitalia are common. These images are more sexually explicit than those of earlier or later periods.\n\nIt has been suggested that the art of Devnimori in Gujarat, dated to the 4th century CE, represented a Western Indian artistic tradition, based on the influence of the Greco-Buddhist art of Gandhara, that was anterior to the rise of Gupta Empire art, and that it may have influenced it, and have influenced the art of the Ajanta Caves, Sarnath and other places from the 5th century onward. Devnimori may also have received some influence from Mathura art. At Ajanta, some connections with the art of Gandhara can be noted, and there is evidence of a shared artistic idiom.\n\nThe site of Devnimori included numerous terracotta Buddhist sculptures (but no stone sculptures), which are among the earliest sculptures that can be found in Gujarat. The style is clearly influenced by the Greco-Buddhist art of Gandhara.\n\nThe Indo-Scythian Western Satraps (1st century CE-405 CE) may have played a role in the transmission of the art of Gandhara to the western Deccan region, as may also have the southern expansion of the Alchon Huns in the 6th-7th century.\n\nThe art of Mathura acquired progressively more Indian elements and reached a very high sophistication during the Gupta Empire, between the 4th and the 6th century AD. The art of the Gupta is considered as the pinnacle of Indian Buddhist art.\n\nHellenistic elements are still clearly visible in the purity of the statuary and the folds of the clothing, but are improved upon with a very delicate rendering of the draping and a sort of radiance reinforced by the usage of pink sandstone.\nArtistic details tend to be less realistic, as seen in the symbolic shell-like curls used to render the hairstyle of the Buddha.\n\nGreco-Buddhist artistic influences naturally followed Buddhism in its expansion to Central and Eastern Asia from the 1st century BC.\n\nBactria was under direct Greek control for more than two centuries from the conquests of Alexander the Great in 332 BC to the end of the Greco-Bactrian kingdom around 125 BC. The art of Bactria was almost perfectly Hellenistic as shown by the archaeological remains of Greco-Bactrian cities such as Alexandria on the Oxus (Ai-Khanoum), or the numismatic art of the Greco-Bactrian kings, often considered as the best of the Hellenistic world, and including the largest silver and gold coins ever minted by the Greeks.\n\nWhen Buddhism expanded in Central Asia from the 1st century AD, Bactria saw the results of the Greco-Buddhist syncretism arrive on its territory from India, and a new blend of sculptural representation remained until the Islamic invasions.\n\nThe most striking of these realizations are the Buddhas of Bamyan. They tend to vary between the 5th and the 9th century AD. Their style is strongly inspired by Hellenistic culture.\n\nIn another area of Bactria called Fondukistan, some Greco-Buddhist art survived until the 7th century in Buddhist monasteries, displaying a strong Hellenistic influence combined with Indian decorativeness and mannerism, and some influence by the Sasanid Persians.\n\nMost of the remaining art of Bactria was destroyed from the 5th century onward: the Buddhists were often blamed for idolatry and tended to be persecuted by the iconoclastic Muslims. Destructions continued during the Afghanistan War, and especially by the Taliban regime in 2001. The most famous case is that of the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamyan. Ironically, most of the remaining art from Afghanistan still extant was removed from the country during the Colonial period. In particular, a rich collection exists at the Musee Guimet in France.\n\nThe art of the Tarim Basin, also called Serindian art, is the art that developed from the 2nd through the 11th century AD in Serindia or Xinjiang, the western region of China that forms part of Central Asia. It derives from the art of the Gandhara and clearly combines Indian traditions with Greek and Roman influences.\n\nBuddhist missionaries travelling on the Silk Road introduced this art, along with Buddhism itself, into Serindia, where it mixed with Chinese and Persian influences.\n\nThe arts of China, Korea and Japan adopted Greco-Buddhist artistic influences, but tended to add many local elements as well. What remains most readily identifiable from Greco-Buddhist art are:\n\nGreco-Buddhist artistic elements can be traced in Chinese Buddhist art, with several local and temporal variations depending on the character of the various dynasties that adopted the Buddhist faith. Some of the earliest known Buddhist artifacts found in China are small statues on \"money trees\", dated circa AD 200, in typical Gandharan style: \"That the imported images accompanying the newly arrived doctrine came from Gandhara is strongly suggested by such early Gandhara characteristics on this \"money tree\" Buddha as the high ushnisha, vertical arrangement of the hair, moustache, symmetrically looped robe and parallel incisions for the folds of the arms.\"\n\nSome Northern Wei statues can be quite reminiscent of Gandharan standing Buddha, although in a slightly more symbolic style. The general attitude and rendering of the dress however remain. Other, like Northern Qi Dynasty statues also maintain the general Greco-Buddhist style, but with less realism and stronger symbolic elements.\n\nSome Eastern Wei statues display Buddhas with elaborate Greek-style robe foldings, and surmounted by flying figures holding a wreath.\nIn Japan, Buddhist art started to develop as the country converted to Buddhism in AD 548. Some tiles from the Asuka period, the first period following the conversion of the country to Buddhism, display a strikingly classical style, with ample Hellenistic dress and realistically rendered body shape characteristic of Greco-Buddhist art.\n\nOther works of art incorporated a variety of Chinese and Korean influences, so that Japanese Buddhist became extremely varied in its expression. Many elements of Greco-Buddhist art remain to this day however, such as the Hercules inspiration behind the Nio guardian deities in front of Japanese Buddhist temples, or representations of the Buddha reminiscent of Greek art such as the Buddha in Kamakura.\n\nVarious other Greco-Buddhist artistic influences can be found in the Japanese Buddhist pantheon, the most striking of which being that of the Japanese wind god Fujin. In consistency with Greek iconography for the wind god Boreas, the Japanese wind god holds above his head with his two hands a draping or \"wind bag\" in the same general attitude. The abundance of hair have been kept in the Japanese rendering, as well as exaggerated facial features.\n\nAnother Buddhist deity, named Shukongoshin, one of the wrath-filled protector deities of Buddhist temples in Japan, is also an interesting case of transmission of the image of the famous Greek god Herakles to the Far-East along the Silk Road. Herakles was used in Greco-Buddhist art to represent Vajrapani, the protector of the Buddha, and his representation was then used in China and Japan to depict the protector gods of Buddhist temples.\n\nFinally, the artistic inspiration from Greek floral scrolls is found quite literally in the decoration of Japanese roof tiles, one of the only remaining elements of wooden architecture to have survived the centuries. The clearest ones are from 7th century Nara temple building tiles, some of them exactly depicting vines and grapes. These motifs have evolved towards more symbolic representations, but essentially remain to this day in many Japanese traditional buildings.\nThe Indian civilization proved very influential on the cultures of South-East Asia. Most countries adopted Indian writing and culture, together with Hinduism and Mahayana and Theravada Buddhism.\n\nThe influence of Greco-Buddhist art is still visible in most of the representation of the Buddha in South-East Asia, through their idealism, realism and details of dress, although they tend to intermix with Indian Hindu art, and they progressively acquire more local elements.\nBeyond stylistic elements which spread throughout Asia for close to a millennium, the main contribution of Greco-Buddhist art to the Buddhist faith may be in the Greek-inspired idealistic realism which helped describe in a visual and immediately understandable manner the state of personal bliss and enlightenment proposed by Buddhism. The communication of deeply human approach of the Buddhist faith, and its accessibility to all have probably benefited from the Greco-Buddhist artistic syncretism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21365064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21365064", "title": "Harjinder Singh Dilgeer", "text": "Harjinder Singh Dilgeer\n\nHarjinder Singh Dilgeer (or Harajindara Siṅgha Dilagīra/Aeshaule) is considered an authority on Sikh history, Gurbani and philosophy. He is the only author who has written Complete History of the Sikhs (in 10 volumes) and has translated Guru Granth Sahib in English (7 volumes) and has published DILGEER KOSH (New Mahan Kosh) Encyclopedia of Sikh literature and Punjab & Sikh History . He has written in detail about the concept and the history of Akal Takht Sahib, Sikh culture, Shiromani Akali Dal, the history of Anandpur Sahib, and Kiratpur Sahib, Dictionary of Sikh Philosophy etc. \"The Sikh Reference Book\" is his magnum opus. 'The Sikh Reference Book' is an encyclopaedia consisting of more than 2400 biographies, complete chronology of Sikh history, 400 concepts of Sikh philosophy as well more than 800 Sikh shrines. He has produced a \"Sikh Encyclopaedia\" CD-ROM. His latest works are \"Encyclopaedia of Jalandhar\" (English), Banda Singh Bahadur (Punjabi and English), \"Sikh Twareekh\" in five volumes (a complete Sikh history, from 1469 to 2007, in Punjabi), \"Sikh History\" in ten volumes (a complete Sikh history, from 1469 to 2011, in English); and English translations of \"Nitnaym\" (the Sikh daily prayer) and Sukhmani Sahib.. His latest work is English translation (with explanation) of Guru Granth Sahib, in seven volumes (published in March 2016).\n\nDilgeer was born on 22 October 1962, in the family of Gurbakhsh Singh and Jagtar Kaur, at Jalandhar, Punjab, India. in a family originally from Jaisalmer, in Rajasthan, then Mehraj village (now in Bathinda district). He was later based in Jalandhar and Jalalabad (Firozpur), and finally in Oslo. He is a citizen of Norway, and, presently lives in England.\n\nDilgeer passed his M.A. in English, Punjabi and Philosophy and started teaching in various colleges in the Punjab and finally at the Panjab University Chandigarh. He was awarded degrees of M.Phil. LL.B. and Ph.D. by Panjab University Chandigarh. Besides he has several other degrees and diplomas as well. He is visiting teacher of the P.U. Patiala as well.\n\nIn Denmark in 1995, he was presented with the 'Shan-i-Punjab' award; in 2004 he won the 'Giani Garja Singh Award' in Ludhiana; in 2005, he was presented with the 'Kohinoor Award' and 'National Professor of Sikh Studies' award in Birmingham (England); in 2006 he won the 'Bhai Gurdas' award in Amritsar; and in 2009 he was presented with the 'National Professor of Sikh History' award at Chandigarh.\nDr Harjinder Singh Dilgeer was given award of \"Heera-e-Qaum\" (Gem of Nation) by the Haryana SGPC, on 11 November 2017.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45064305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45064305", "title": "Harold D. Roth", "text": "Harold D. Roth\n\nHarold D. Roth is a professor of religious studies and the Director of the Contemplative Studies Initiative at Brown University. Roth is a specialist in Methods of Textual Criticism and Textual History, Classical Chinese Religious Thought, Classical Daoism, the Comparative Study of Mysticism and one of the pioneers of the new interdisciplinary academic field of Contemplative Studies.\n\nDuring an academic career spanning over three decades, Roth has done ground- breaking work in three major intellectual fields. In the first, textual criticism, following the lead of the late SOAS professor Paul Thompson, Roth did the first complete textual history of a major Classical Chinese philosophical work, which he published in his first book, \"The Textual History of the Huai-nan Tzu\". Working towards the goal of establishing modern critical editions of all the major extant works of the classical period, Roth developed a distinctive method he called \"Filiation Analysis\", a technique for determining the broadest range of possibly authentic textual variants using the bare minimum number of editions. This is detailed in his very first publication, \"Filiation Analysis and the Textual Criticism of the Huai-nan Tzu\". It is further developed as a model for all classical Chinese philosophical texts in a later publication, \"Text and Edition in Early Chinese Philosophical Literature\".\n\nThe second major area in which Roth has done pioneering work is in reconstructing the lost history and contemplative dimensions of the late Warring States and early Han dynasty tradition that he dubbed \"inner cultivation\". It is this tradition that was given the moniker \"Daoism\" by the Grand Historian Sima Tan circa 110 BCE. Beginning with three publications in the early to mid 1990s, \"Psychology and Self-Cultivation in Early Taoistic Thought\", \"Who Compiled the Chuang Tzu?\", and \"Redaction Criticism and the Early History of Taoism\", Roth began a detailed textual analysis of classical Chinese texts on inner cultivation demonstrating that they contained a distinctive set of technical terms that could be organized under three philosophical categories: cosmology, psychology/inner cultivation, and political thought. Expanding the work of A.C. Graham, he further determined that these extant sources of inner cultivation could be organized into three distinctive philosophical groupings, \"Individualist\", Primitivist, and Syncretist and argued these could be considered different phases in the development of this classical Daoist tradition. Roth systematized these arguments in providing the intellectual context for his translation of a short and distinctive text entitled \"Neiye\" (\"Inward Training\"), one of 76 works in the Guanzi 管子 compendium, published in his second book, \"Original Tao: Inward Training and the Foundations of Taoist Mysticism\" and returned to them in a recent article detailed the contributions to the development of the foundational philosophical idea of li 理 (Pattern, Principle) made by this classical Daoist tradition in \"The Classical Daoist Concept of Li and Early Chinese Cosmology\".\n\nIn developing these theories about the inner cultivation tradition Roth broke new ground in systematically applying the methods of the philosophical analysis of different traditions of mystical experience to the classical Chinese religious traditions. In addition to being summarized in Original Tao, his work in this area is detailed in a number of important other publications: \"Evidence for Stages of Meditation in Early Taoism\", \"Lao Tzu in the Context of Early Taoist Mystical Praxis\", and \"Bimodal Mystical Experience in the 'Qiwulun' of Zhuangzi\".\n\nStarting when he entered the Ph.D. program at the University of Toronto in 1975, Roth began a fascination with the early Han dynasty (139 BCE) philosophical compendium, the Huainanzi 淮南子, until recently the last great untranslated work of classical Chinese philosophy. Intended as a comprehensive multi-authored text detailing all the fields of knowledge with which the Chinese emperor needed to be conversant, the Huainanzi contains chapters on cosmology and cosmogony, astronomy, geography, rulership, and warfare, to name a few of its major topics. Roth has argued that while the Huainanzi is inclusive of a very wide range philosophical ideas from many traditions, that its overarching intellectual context is provided by the inner cultivation tradition of classical Daoism. After working on the textual history of this major work in his first book, in the mid 1990s Roth developed a project for the first complete English translation with colleague John Major and, eventually, a small cohort of additional scholars that included, most importantly, Sarah Queen and Andrew Meyer. Together they succeeded in finally publishing a complete translation, The Huainanzi: A Guide to the Theory and Practice of Government in Early Han China and an abridged translation, The Essential Huainanzi. In addition to his work on these translations and to his first book, Roth has published his ideas on the philosophy of the Huainanzi in a number of publications, including \"The Concept of Human Nature in the Huai-nan Tzu\", \"Nature and Self-Cultivation in Huainanzi's 'Original Way'\", \"Daoist Inner Cultivation Thought and the Textual Structure of the Huainanzi\", and \"Huainanzi 淮 南 子and Early Han Daoism\".\n\nRoth has not only been a leader in developing the new academic field of \"Contemplative Studies\", he is also the person who first coined the term. Combining the disciplines of the relevant Brain Sciences, Humanities, and Creative Arts around the systematic third and first-person study of contemplative experiences, across cultures and across time, this new field presents bold new pedagogies and research techniques that return the unbiased perspective of the experiencing subject to both classroom and laboratory. Inspired by the work of scientists such as Francisco Varela, James Austin, and Richard Davidson, philosophers such as William James and Evan Thompson, and educators such as John Dewey and Parker Palmer, Brown Contemplative Studies has served as a model for research institutes and academic programs at many institutions of higher education throughout North America. Roth has helped pioneer the field through such publications as \"Contemplative Studies: Prospects for a New Field\", Columbia Teacher's College Record (2006); \"Against Cognitive Imperialism\", Religion East and West (2008); \"Contemplative Studies: Can It Flourish in the Religious Studies Classroom?\" Meditation and the Classroom: Contemplative Pedagogy for Religious Studies (2011); and \"A Pedagogy for the New Field of Contemplative Studies\", Contemplative Approaches to Learning and Inquiry across Disciplines (2014). In 2014 Brown University became the first major North American Research University to establish a formal undergraduate concentration (major) in Contemplative Studies. This pioneering multi-disciplinary concentration requires 14 courses including a core set of 5 required courses in relevant Brain Sciences and Humanities. Students then choose a Sciences track that features Cognitive Psychology and Neuroscience or a Humanities Track that features Philosophy of Mind and Contemplative Religious Traditions. Art concentrations within the Humanities Track are also possible.\n\nAdditionally, Roth has served these academic fields in a variety of ways. He served on the Board of Directors of the Society for the Study of Chinese Religions for a decade starting in 1993, during which time he has also served on the editorial boards of four international journals of Daoism and Early Chinese Studies. In addition to this he was the founder and Co-Organizer of the New England Symposium on Chinese Thought (1988–93), the organizer of four academic panels at the Association for Asian Studies and American Oriental Society, and the Co-Organizer of the Second American-Japanese Conference on Taoist Studies (1998). He has been a member of the initial Steering Committees for two groups within the American Academy of Religion, the Daoist Studies Section and the Contemplative Studies Group. He has been on the planning committees for the Mind and Life Institute Summer Research Institutes and the first and second International Symposia on Contemplative Studies (2012 and 2014).\n\nFinally, a long time student of the Rinzai Zen Master Kyozan Joshu Sasaki (1907-2014), Roth was recently named to Chair the Publications Committee for Sasaki's teaching materials.\n"}
{"id": "18211203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18211203", "title": "Issues in Science and Religion", "text": "Issues in Science and Religion\n\nIssues in Science and Religion is a book by Ian Barbour. A biography provided by the John Templeton Foundation and published by PBS online states this book \"has been credited with literally creating the contemporary field of science and religion.\"\n\nThe book is divided into three parts. The first part is concerned with the history of science and religion, the second with the methods of science and religion, and the third with the issues themselves.\n\nBarbour provides introductions to several schools of philosophy in order to give the reader knowledge enough to understand how relations between science and religion look from these distinct viewpoints. The book also includes several specific, non-philosophical areas of science are employed in its discussion. Several specific concepts and objects are brought up in the discussion generally along with summaries of significant criticisms.\n\nIn this part Barbour provides an overview of how scientific discovery has influenced theology throughout the 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th centuries. The major scientific discoveries made in the 17th century included those made by Galileo and Newton. The scientific discoveries made by Galileo and Newton began to describe and explain the natural and physical laws by which the earth operates. These discoveries drastically changed the way that man viewed the world and nature. This in turn caused shifts in theological thought. Natural theology emerged, where God was able to fill the scientific gaps and was responsible for the orderliness of nature. The idea of God as the \"Divine Clockmaker\" and the beginning of Deism can also be traced back to the 17th century.\n\nDuring the 18th century the Age of Reason and Romanticism greatly shaped views on science and theology. Deism became very popular during this time among many Enlightenment scholars. Romanticism, on the other hand, led to an appreciation of the underlying spirituality in nature and in man, and God's personal relationship with man and nature. This in turn led to the concepts of moral and religious experience, which focused on man's intuition and imagination in relation to their religious experience.\n\nThe theory of evolution was developed by Darwin in the 19th century. This essentially eliminated the \"God of the gaps\" that had come about in the 17th century. Liberal theologians accepted the theory of evolution, and held the opinion that God works continuously through the evolutionary process. On the other hand conservatives still insisted on Biblical literalism, and they rejected Darwin's theory. For the most part theologians began to focus more on the human experience for their basis of theology.\n\nIn the next two parts of the book, Barbour goes into details of the 20th century.\n\nIn this section a whole chapter is devoted to the methods of scientific discovery. Barbour asserts that scientific discovery is based on a critical realism, where it is recognized that scientific theory is not infallible in itself but is based on universal truths. Due to this line of thinking, as scientific knowledge changes an over-all advance is made. The next chapter compares the study of science to the study of history. This chapter focuses on the objectivity of science versus the subjectivity of history. History is seen as subjective because one is dealing with the humanities and there is a level of personal involvement. Although throughout history certain patterns of human behavior emerge, these patterns are never entirely predictable or repeatable. Where in science, all events that are observed must be repeatable and produce the same results in order to uphold natural laws. The following chapter examines the methods of religion. In this chapter some comparisons are made between the methods of science and the methods of religion, in particular regarding experience, community and the use of models to explain an event or concept. Although there are parallels between the methods of science and religion, there are also difference. One major difference is the same as the difference between science and history. Like history, religion is subjective due to the personal involvement required of religion. The final chapter of this section discusses the language used in religion and science. This chapter asserts that although there are many similarities in the methods and language of science and religion, the two subjects remain distinctly different in their purposes.\n\nThe first chapter in this section examines contemporary physics, in particular indeterminacy as shown in the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle. This indeterminacy in the behavior of atoms can be generalized to apply to humanity as a whole. This argument rests on the unpredictability of a single person and their action. Barbour concludes this chapter by stating that although physics can be used to explain human freedom to some extent, it will never produce an entirely satisfactory argument for it. The next chapter addresses how the idea that man is simply a machine that can be broken up into respective systems and thus is completely predictable, is not satisfactory in the scientific world. It can be seen through science and the study of DNA, that each human has a unique identity and sense of selfhood. This is supported biblically, in that God's love for each human being is unique to that person. The next chapter expresses varying viewpoints on creation and evolution, from conservative to liberal theology. In more conservative lines of thought biblical literalism points to the creation of man as a divine point in creation, and therefore rejects the idea of man evolving from other life forms. The liberal side of theology embraces the theory of evolution, and incorporates it with scripture into a doctrine of continuing creation. The final chapter in this book examines God's relation to nature. There are many different views on how God is related to nature. Those who hold more conservative views believe in God's sovereignty over nature. Others look at God's role in nature through a historical context, where God has evoked certain responses in nature throughout the course of time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46831708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46831708", "title": "Journal of Religion and Popular Culture", "text": "Journal of Religion and Popular Culture\n\nThe Journal of Religion and Popular Culture is a triannual online peer-reviewed academic journal that was established in 2002 and is published by University of Toronto Press. The editors-in-chief are Scott Daniel Dunbar, lecturer at Monash University and Jennifer E. Porter, assistant professor at Memorial University of Newfoundland. The journal covers the interactions between religion and popular culture.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "32873162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32873162", "title": "Kefraya", "text": "Kefraya\n\nKefraya ( / ALA-LC: \"Kifrayā\") is a village in the Western Beqaa District of the Beqaa Governorate in the Republic of Lebanon, approximately northwest of Joub Jannine. The village is home to a mixed population of Sunnis and Greek Catholics.\n\nIt is known for its vineyards and Château Kefraya wines. Château Kefraya is the second biggest winery in the Beqaa Valley with land that extends up to amongst the foothills of Mount Barouk, south of the town of Chtaura.It was established in 1951 byits owner Michel de Bustros Bustros Family Shares of the winery are owned by prominent politician, Walid Jumblatt \nChateau Kefraya exports wines to a number of countries in America, Europe, Middle East, Asia, Oceania, and Africa\n\nKefraya was also once home to the Qaraoun culture with a Heavy Neolithic archaeological industry prior to the Neolithic Revolution. A very large archaeological site was discovered in the area running along both sides of the road. Good quality flint nodules were found amongst Eocene conglomerates where a Heavy Neolithic factory site was detected with a massive abundance of Levallois cores, debitage and waste littering the surface of the site. Large numbers of flint tools were collected by workers that included a variety of scrapers on flakes, kinves, axes, adzes and a segmented sickle blade. The type of flint found in the area was termed Kefraya flint.\n\n"}
{"id": "6230680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6230680", "title": "Lay leader", "text": "Lay leader\n\nA lay leader is a member of the laity in any congregation who has been chosen as a leader either by their peers or the leadership of the congregation. In most denominations, lay leadership is not an ordained clerical office, and the lay leader's responsibilities vary according to the particular tradition to which he or she belongs. Some organizations do not allow the lay leader to give sacraments for example, but do allow them to perform most other portions of the service that are normally the responsibility of the clergy (e.g. giving sermons when the regular clergy are on vacation).\n\nThe Assemblies of God official position paper on Ordination states, \"When necessary, the laity can perform all of the functions of ministry except those for which the State requires an ordained minister.\"\n\nIn The United Methodist Church the lay leader refers to the principal layperson in a local church, district or Annual Conference who represents and leads the laity in ministry. It is an elected position, and the lay leader will serve on most church committees. \n\nVarious titles are used for lay leaders in different religious organizations, including lay preacher; lay reader (in Episcopal churches); lay speaker (in the United Methodist Church, USA); local preacher (in the UK Methodist Church and the Uniting Church in Australia); Reader (in the Anglican Church); and deacon, though this last title can also refer to an ordained ministry.\n\nThe following list gives examples of things lay leaders may be responsible for:\n"}
{"id": "3140833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3140833", "title": "Lenyadri", "text": "Lenyadri\n\nLenyadri (, Leṇyādri), sometimes called Ganesa Lena, Ganesh Pahar Caves, or Suleman Caves, represents a series of about 30 rock-cut Buddhist caves, located about 5km north of Junnar in Pune district in the Indian state of Maharashtra. Other caves surrounding the city of Junnar are: Manmodi caves, Shivneri caves and Tulja caves.\n\nCave 7, originally a Buddhist vihara, has been adapted as a Hindu temple dedicated to the god Ganesha. It is one of the Ashtavinayak shrines, a set of the eight prominent Ganesha shrines in Western Maharashtra. Twenty-six of the caves are individually numbered. The caves face to the south and are numbered serially from east to west. Caves 6 and 14 are \"chaitya-grihas\" (chapels), while the rest are \"viharas\" (dwellings for monks). The latter are in the form of dwellings and cells. There are also several rock-cut water cisterns; two of them have inscriptions. The layout of the caves, in general, are similar in pattern and shape. They generally have one or two sides with two long benches for occupants' use.\n\nThe caves date from between the 1st and 3rd century AD; the Ganesha shrine situated in Cave 7 is dated to the 1st century AD, though the date of conversion to a Hindu shrine is unknown. All of the caves arise from Hinayana Buddhism.\n\nThe current name \"Lenyadri\" literally means \"mountain cave\". It is derived from 'Lena' in Marathi meaning \"cave\" and 'adri' in Sanskrit meaning \"mountain\" or \"stone\". The name \"Lenyadri\" appears in the Hindu scripture Ganesha Purana as well as in a Sthala Purana, in association to the Ganesha legend. It is also called \"Jeernapur\" and \"Lekhan parvat\" (\"Lekhan mountain\").\n\nThe hill is also known as \"Suleman Pahar\" (\"Suleman hill\") or \"Ganesh Pahar\" (\"Ganesha hill\"). An ancient inscription calls the place \"Kapichita (Kapichitta)\". The caves are also known as \"Ganesh Lena\" or Ganesh Caves.\n\nLenyadri is located at , in the Indian state of Maharashtra in Pune district. Lenyadri is a deserted location, with no human settlement nearby. It is located at about from Junnar, the headquarters of Junnar taluka. It is situated on the north-west banks of river Kukadi, which flows between Golegaon and Junnar. It is also approached through Nanaghat, which was originally on the trade route between Aparantaka or the northern Konkan and the Deccan and descending to the plains of the Junnar town, dated to about 100 years before Christ was born. The circular hill, where Lenyadri caves have been emboweled, raises about 100 ft above the plains in the Hatkeshwar and Suleiman ranges.\n\nLenyadri is the only Ashtavinayaka temple on a mountain and within the precincts of Buddhist caves.\n\nThe Ganesha temple is located in Cave 7, the largest excavation around Junnar, about above the plains. It is essentially a Buddhist \"Vihara\" (a dwelling for monks, mostly with meditation cells) in design, an unpillared hall with 20 cells with varying dimensions; 7 on either side and 6 on the rear wall. The hall is large, can be entered by a central door, under a pillared veranda. The hall is long; wide and high. There are 2 windows on either side of the entrance. The hall is treated now as a sabha-mandapa (\"assembly hall\") of the Ganesha temple. 283 steps built (by devotees) in stone masonry over eight flights lead to the entrance. The steps are believed to represent sensual pleasures, which Ganesha has overcome. The veranda has six pillars and two pilasters (half-pillars), that support \"an architrave from which projects eaves relieved with a railing resting on beams and rafters\". The pillars have octagonal shafts and \"over benches and back rest and topped by an inverted \"ghata\", compressed \"amalaka\" in between two square plates, inverted stepped pyramid and finally crowned by a bracket\" with tigers, elephants and bulls.\n\nIn a later period, the two central cells of the rear wall have been combined by breaking the partition in between to house the Ganesha image. The old entrance was also widened during the conversion to the Ganesha temple. There are two other smaller entrances to the hall. All entrances bear marks of sockets for fixing wooden doors, added during the conversion, and still have doors. The hall also has traces of plaster and paintings, both added during the conversion and renewed in later times - possibly as late as the 19th century. The Gazetteer of the Bombay Presidency (1882) records that the hall was plastered and white-washed. The paintings depicted Ganesha's childhood, marriage preparations, battle with demons and so forth, along with scenes of other Hindu deities like Devi, Krishna, Vishnu and Shiva. Some of the cells fitted with wooden doors were used for storage. Nine Sati memorials were added on the left wall during the conversion, each is in the shape of a long pillar with an arched top, and to the right of each pillar a hand raised above the elbow, with an open palm, signifies Sati's blessing. While three panels were plain, the other memorials were sculpted. All of them are worn out, but one of them hints that its subject may be the immolation of Sati on her husband's funeral pyre.\n\nThe Ganesha form worshipped here is called Girijatmaja (). The name is either interpreted as \"mountain-born\" or as \"Atmaja of Girija\", the son of Parvati, who herself is daughter of the mountain Himavan, a personification of the mountains of Himalayas. The features of the Ganesha icon, seen on the back wall of the cave, are the least distinct vis-a-vis the other Ashtavinayak temples. Though the temple faces the inauspicious south, - according to a local tradition - the deity faces north, with his back to his worshipper and his face visible on the other side of the mountain. The Peshwa rulers even tried in vain to locate the face of Ganesha on the other side. The central icon was covered with brass-plated wooden armour, given as a gift by Junnar. Brahmins, The armour is not present currently. After it was removed, Ganesha could be seen with his trunk turned to the left side, facing east, with one of his eyes visible. The icon is covered with sindoor and is directly formed/sculpted on the stone wall of the cave.\n\nLike all Ashtavinayaka temples, the central Ganesha image is believed to be \"svayambhu\" (self-existent), a naturally occurring stone formation resembling an elephant-face.\n\nAccording to the Ganapatya scripture Ganesha Purana, Ganesha incarnated as Mayuresvara or Mayureshwar (), who had six arms and a white complexion. His mount was a peacock. He was born to Shiva and Parvati in the Treta yuga, for the purpose of killing the demon Sindhu.\n\nOnce Parvati (Girija) asked her husband Shiva who he was meditating on. He said he was meditating on \"the supporter of the entire universe\" - Ganesha, and initiated Parvati with the Ganesha Mantra \"Gam\". Desiring to have a son, Parvati underwent austerities meditating on Ganesha, for twelve years at Lenyadri. Pleased by her penance, Ganesha blessed her with the boon that he will be born as her son. Accordingly, on the fourth lunar day of the bright fortnight of the Hindu month Bhadrapada (Ganesh chaturthi day), Parvati worshipped a clay image of Ganesha, which came alive. Thus, Ganesha was born to Parvati at Lenyadri. Later, he was named Gunesha by Shiva. Shiva gave him a boon that whosoever remembers him before starting a job, will successfully complete that task. For 15 years Gunesha grew up at Lenyadri. Sindhu, who knew that his death would be at the hands of Gunesha, sent demons like Krur, Balasur, Vyomasur, Kshemma, Kushal, and many more, to kill Gunesha, but all of them were instead killed by him. At the age of six, the architect-god Vishwakarma worshipped Gunesha and endowed him with the weapons Pasha (noose), Parashu (axe), Ankusha (hook) and Padma (Lotus). Once, little Gunesha knocked an egg from a mango tree, from which emerged a peacock. Gunesha mounted the peacock and assumed the name Mayuresvara. Mayuresvara later killed Sindhu and his army-generals at Morgaon, the most important Ashtavinayaka temple.\n\nLenyadri is one of the eight revered Ganesha temples collectively called Ashtavinayaka. While some believe that order of visiting the temples in an Ashtavinayaka pilgrimage is irrelevant, Lenyadri is usually visited as the 6th temple.\n\nThe caves including the temple lie under the control of the Archaeological Survey of India. Sardar Deshpande is the priest in charge of the temple's activities. He does not stay in Lenyadri. The priests there claim to be Yajurvedi Brahmins. The festivals of Ganesh Jayanti and Ganesh Chaturthi are celebrated in the temple, when pilgrims crowd all Ashtavinayak temples.\n\nCave 6 is the main \"chaitya-griha\" of the Lenyadri caves and one of the earliest examples of a Hinayana chaitya-griha. Its plan is similar to the Ajanta Caves chaitya-griha, though smaller in size. It has a veranda, pillars and pilasters with animal-capitals, and a shrine with 5 steps at the entrance. The shrine hall is entered by a plain and a socketed-door measuring in width and in height. The hall measures in length; in width and in height. It has a row of five pillars and one pilaster on each side of the \"chaitya\" or \"Dagoba\" or \"stupa\" (central relic-shrine), located at the rear of the hall. A start was made on a typical large arched window above the entrance, but this was never completed, and remains a blind recess. \n\nThe Satakarni period pillars begin with a four-plated pyramid structure, then a waterpot base, followed by an eight-sided shaft, above a reversed pot, then a capital in five plates, and on the top the \"amalaka\" or cogwheel pattern. The capital has animal figures like lions, elephants, a sphinx and tigers. Parts of the pillar are broken. Behind the relic-shrine, are six eight-sided pillars, arranged in a curve. \"The stupa consists of a drum with a moulding below and railing above, a globular dome and a corbelled (with \"a projection jutting out from a wall to support a structure above it\") dome with a railing at the base.\" The stupa has Buddhist tridents carved on it. A hole is carved for fixing garlands in the front and 5 holes on the top probably to fix a central wooden umbrella and side flags. A 2nd century, swastika-flanked inscription on the back wall of the veranda translates: \"A meritorious gift of a chapel cave by the distinguished Sulasadata, son of Heranika of Kalyana [modern Kalyan near Mumbai].\"\n\nBetween caves 5 and 6, on higher level, is an excavation originally intended either for a dwelling or for a seat, but converted into a cistern following discovery of a rock-fault. On its left side is a bench.\n\n\nThis cave, also a chaitya-griha, has a flat roof. However, it has no pillars in the hall that measures in length; in width and in height. It has a pillared veranda; pillars are in octagonal shape. The stupa is in three steps with a base of diameter. The rim has a railing design surrounded by a cylindrical drum with \"a square harmika with railing pattern and an inverted stepped pyramidal abacus.\" A carved chhatri covers the ceiling. The pillars of the veranda consist of octagonal shafts resting on \"ghata\" base over a stepped pedestal. An inverted kalasha adorns the top, which also has a corbelled abacus. Inscription on the back wall of the veranda dates the cave to the 2nd century A.D. The inscription translates as: \"A meritorious gift of a chapel cave given by Ananda, a son of Tapasa and grandson of Upasaka.\"\n\n\nCave 1 is divided into four parts: a veranda, a middle room, a cell, and a half cell. The veranda has a bench along the right wall. Its front possibly had two quadrangular pillars, traces of one are seen around the ceiling. A rock beam was present over the pillars, above the beam ribs and a rail pattern could have existed. In a recess below the veranda is an earth-filled cistern. A door with a small window to the left leads into the middle room. The middle room has a bench along the right wall. Towards the back of the middle room, to the left, is the half cell and to the right the cell. The half-cell has a bench along the right wall and to the left, has a square window connecting it to cave 2. A door with grooves for fitting a wooden frame, leads into the cell which has a bench along its right wall.\n\n\nCave 2 is similar to cave 1 in design. The veranda has two pillars and two pilasters, a bench between each pillar and pilaster with curtains in the back, which have a rail pattern. Over the pillars rests the rail-patterned rock beam, above which is the ceiling. Parts of the pillars and pilasters are broken. In front over the beam project rock imitations of rafters. A doorway with grooves for a wooden frame, leads into a middle room, with a bench along the left wall. The position of the hall-cell and cell are exchanged with respect to cave 1 design. Each has a bench.\n\nCave 3 has an open veranda and a cell. The veranda has a bench along the back wall. A door leads to a cell, which has a seat in a left recess. In front of the recess, below the seat, are vertical bands. Between caves 2 and 3 there is a seat in the front, in a recess.\n\nCave 4 has an open veranda and a cell. The veranda has a bench, along the back wall. A grooved door leads to a cell, which has a bench along the right wall. A broken window is to the left of door and to its right, a small hole, which could have been used to wash feet before entering the cell.\n\n\nCave 5 is located lower to left of cave 4. It is divided into 3 parts: veranda, a middle hall and seven cells of varying size, three in the back wall and two in each side wall. Thus it is known as a \"saptagarbha layana\" (seven cell dwelling). The veranda had two pillars and two pilasters with pot capitals of the Satakarni period (B.C. 90-A.D. 300), of which only the right broken pilaster and a trace of the base of the right pillar remain. In front of the veranda, an open court with two steps lead to the veranda. To the right of the court is a cistern. In the back wall of the veranda, to the left of the door to the middle hall, close under the broken verandah ceiling, is a single line inscription, flanked by the Buddhist trident in the beginning and swastika at the end. It is translated as: \"A meritorious gift of a seven-celled cave and cistern by a guild of corn-dealers.\" The door also has windows on both its sides. Throughout the middle hall in the front of the cells is a bench. A bench is also built in the back wall of the cells.\n\nCave 8 is a difficult-to-reach dwelling. It consists of a veranda with a cell and a half cell in its back wall, both entered through the veranda. The cell has a broken door, a small window, benched recess and a peg hole. The half cell has an open front and a bench at the back.\n\n\nCave 9 located to the right of Cave 8, can be entered via the latter's veranda. Cave 9 has its own veranda and a hall. The veranda has four Satakarni-period, broken pillars. The hall has a larger central door - with windows on either side - and a side door, both having grooves for wooden frames. The purpose of this hall is unknown and speculated to be a school or study.\n\n\nCave 10 is located at a higher level than cave 9 and is difficult to reach as its front is broken. An open veranda with a broken ceiling and floor leads to a middle room through a grooved broken door, which has windows on either side. The right wall of the hall has a recess with a seat. A cell to the left of the room has a seat in a recess. A door from the cell leads to a half-cell which has a recess and seat. Traces of painting are seen on the ceiling. Outside the veranda to the left is a cistern.\n\n\nCave 11 is difficult to reach with a broken front and a hall. To the left of a hall is a cell, lower in height than the hall. The hall has a grooved doorway and a recess with a seat at the back. Outside the hall is a view seat. The cave bears traces of paint.\n\n\nCave 12 is a small dwelling entered by a door from the veranda of cave 11. It has its own open veranda, which has a partly broken floor and ceiling and recessed benches on the left and right of the door to the middle room. The middle room has a small window to the left of the door and a seat recess in its right wall. In the back wall of the middle room to the left is a half cell - which has a seat recess - and a cell with a grooved door. The floor of the cave has a coating of cement, while the ceiling of the middle room bears painted concentric circles.\n\n\nCave 13 on a slightly higher level than cave 12, is a small dwelling with an open court and from 2 steps lead to a veranda. To the right of the court is a cistern. The veranda has a bench along its right wall. The front of the veranda has 2 benches, flanked by a plain eight-sided pillar and pilaster; some remnants of these survive. On the right pilaster is a double crescent ornament. A grooved door leads to a middle room, which has a bench along the right wall and seat recess to the left. A window is to the left of door. In the back wall of the middle room a cell (left) - with a grooved bench and a bench - and a half cell (right) are seen. The ceiling has traces of painting.\n\n\nCave 15 is a small dwelling consisting of a cell with an unproved doorway and a veranda. Though the side walls of the cave are still preserved, the ceiling is half broken.\n\n\nCave 16 is a small dwelling, on a slightly higher level above cave 15. It has a cell with a bench along its right wall and a veranda, which leads to the cell through a door. The side walls as well as a part of the ceiling are broken.\n\n\nCave 17 comprises a series of three small dwellings located along a row with a shared veranda. The first dwelling has a doorway flanked by broken windows on either side, leading to a middle room. The back room of the middle dwelling has a cell to the right and a half cell to the left. A window is located to left of door to the cell. The cell also has traces of painting. The half cell has a bench. The second dwelling has a middle room, a half cell to the left, and a cell, reached from the right of the half cell. The middle room has a bench. The half cell has a recess in its back wall, along with a bench. A grooved door leads from the half-cell to the cell, which also has a bench. A window in the right cell overlooks in to the middle room. In front of the doorway is a bench. The third and largest of the three dwellings consists of a middle hall. At the back wall of the hall there are two cells and two seat recesses. Along the right and rear walls runs a bench. The right cell as well as the left cell have grooved doorways, a window to the left of the doorway and a bench along each of their rear walls. In front of the hall door is a bench. In front of the broken veranda are holes for fixing wooden pillars. To the left of the veranda are two cisterns. Between cave 17 and cave 18, there are three other cisterns. In the recess of the first cistern, an inscription reads translated: \"A meritorious gift of a cistern by Saghaka a goldsmith, son of Kudira of Kalyana.\" Another inscription in the recess of the second cistern reads translated: \"A meritorious gift of a cistern by Lachhinika (wife) of Torika the Na daka [and] Nadabalika, wife of Isimulasami.\"\n\n\nCave 18 is a dining hall with a front wall and a grooved doorway, on either side of which are windows. A bench runs along the back and side walls. The passage to the hall has 3 broken steps and an open court in the front. A cistern is located to the left of the court.\n\n\nCave 19 is a cell without a front wall and a bench runs along the left wall. The ceiling shows signs of a dressed stone or wooden screen from the right wall to the end of the bench. To the right is a small cell in the same roof, probably connected with cave 19. The small cell has a bench along its right wall and the grooved doorway. The cave has two cisterns.\n\n\nCave 20 is a small dwelling, hard to reach as the front is broken. To the right is a passage and to the left a cell with a bench along the entire left wall.\n\n\nCave 21 is approached through a small crevice from cave 20, in the absence of any direct approach. Its living space has a veranda of fairly large size. There is also an inner cell with a grooved door frame. Seating benches have been cut into shallow spaces both in the cell and in the veranda.\n\n\nCave 22 adjoins cave 21 on the left and it was also a dwelling unit with a bench for the entire length of the back wall. A window from this hall overlooks another smaller room. An entry through a grooved door gives access to a long corridor and in the back wall of which is an inscription that discloses the name of the donor and the monastic order.\n\n\nCave 23 has two dwelling units with a long passage with shallow niches with seating provisions on the left wall. A door provides links to the rooms. A niche in the back wall between the two rooms gives no clue of its purpose.\n\n\nCave 24 is a long cave with difficult access that leads into a cistern with seating arrangements in the niches. There is a door access to the passage, which also has benches for seating.\n\n\nCave 25 is longer than cave 24 with several small and big rooms. These rooms also have seating arrangements in niches which display irregular excavations denoting poor condition of the rock, which probably stopped further work on this cave.\n\n\nThis is plain cave located below cave 6, which is a chaitya (chapel) cave.\n\nOn another spur of the same Lenyadri hill (), there are four more caves (not numbered) that face south-south west and are cut into precipitous hill slopes. Based on their unfinished conditions, they are interpreted as early caves. The details are: a small \"chaitya\" with a relic-shrine and a door, with unfinished irregular rock faces. The entrance is decorated with ornamentation that depict relic-shrine, a lotus flower and geometrical patterns; another is an inaccessible cave with two rooms, a well, and stone beds in three adjoining rooms with an incomplete relic-shrine in low relief; two other adjoining caves have a chapel and a front veranda.\n\nPassing round the east end of the hill, after a walk of fully a mile, or about four miles from the town, in another spur of the Sulaiman Pahar, is a group of caves in the face of the hill, 400 feet above the level of Junnar, and facing S.S.W. They are usually represented as inaccessible, from the precipice in front of them being almost perpendicular; they are very difficult of access, and dangerous to attempt for any one not accustomed to climbing. \nThe most easterly of them is a small Chaitya-cave only 8 feet 3 inches wide, and 22 feet 4 inches in length, or 15 feet 4 inches from the door to the dagoba, which is 4 feet 10 inches in diameter and 9 feet 4 inches high. The walls are not straight, nor the floor level. The side aisles have not been begun, and altogether no part of the interior is quite finished, except the upper part of the dagoba. To the top of the architrave or triforium is 16 feet, and to the centre of the roof 18 feet 2 inches. Outside, the façade is carved with Chaitya window ornaments, some enclosing a dagoba, and others a lotus flower; while the rail ornament is abundantly interspersed in the usual way. The fronton round the window is also carved with a geometrical pattern. The details of this cave seem to indicate that it is perhaps as early as those at Bedsa and Karle, and consequently it is among the earlier excavations about Junnar. \n\nNext to it, but higher up and almost inaccessible, are two cells; then a well; and, thirdly, a small vihara, with three cells, two of them with stone-beds. Some rough cutting on the back wall between the cell-doors resembles a dagoba in low relief, but it is quite unfinished. Outside are two more cells and a chamber or chapel at the end of a veranda that runs along in front both of the vihara and the cells.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6710192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6710192", "title": "Liexian Zhuan", "text": "Liexian Zhuan\n\nThe Liexian Zhuan, sometimes translated as Biographies of Immortals, is the oldest extant Chinese hagiography of Daoist \"xian\" \"transcendents; immortals; saints; alchemists\". The text, which compiles the life stories of about 70 mythological and historical \"xian\", was traditionally attributed to the Western Han dynasty editor and imperial librarian Liu Xiang (77-8 BCE), but internal evidence dates it to the 2nd century CE during the Eastern Han period. The \"Liexian Zhuan\" became a model for later authors, such as Ge Hong's 4th century CE \"Shenxian zhuan\" (\"Biographies of Divine Immortals\").\n\n\"Liexian Zhuan\" combines three words:\n\nThe compound \"lièzhuàn\" (列傳, lit. \"arrayed lives\") is a Classical Chinese term meaning \"[non-imperial] biographies\". The \"Liexian Zhuan\" follows the \"liezhuan\" biographical format of traditional Chinese historiography, which was established by Sima Qian in his c. 94 BCE \"Shiji\" (\"Records of the Grand Historian\"). Many later texts adopted the \"liezhuan\" format, for example, the Daoist \"Shenxian zhuan\" and the Buddhist \"Gaoseng zhuan\" (Memoirs of Eminent Monks) (Campany 1996: 25).\n\nThere is no standard translation of \"Liexian Zhuan\", and renderings include:\nThe difficulty of translating this title is demonstrated by Campany's three versions. Note the modern shift to translating \"xian\" as \"transcendent\" rather than \"immortal\"; Daoist texts describe \"xian\" as having extraordinary \"longevity\" or \"long life\" but not eternal \"immortality\" as understood in Western religions (Bokenkamp 1997: 21-23; Campany 2002: 4-5; Campany 2009: 33-34).\n\nThe traditional attribution of the \"Liexian Zhuan\" to the Western Han scholar Liu Xiang is regarded as dubious, and modern scholars generally believe it was compiled during the Eastern Han (25-220 CE) (Penny 2008: 653). There are two kinds of evidence that Liu was not the compiler.\n\nFirst, the \"Liexian Zhuan\" was not listed in Ban Gu's 111 CE \"Book of Han\" \"Yiwenzhi\" (\"Treatise on Literature\") imperial bibliography, and the 636 \"Book of Sui\" was the first official dynastic history to record it bibliographically. However, the \"Yiwenzhi\" does list many works written and compiled by Liu Xiang, including two with similar titles: \"Lienǚ Zhuan\" (列女傳, Biographies of Exemplary Women) and \"Lieshi zhuan\" (列士傳, Biographies of Exemplary Officials).\n\nSecond, some sections of the \"Liexian Zhuan\" refer to events after Liu Xiang's death in 8 or 6 BCE. Eastern Han historical books dating from the early 2nd century CE cite a version (or versions) of the hagiography. Internal evidence shows that some sections of the text were added in the 2nd century, and later editing occurred (Penny 2008: 653). The hagiography contains some phrases dating from the Jin dynasty (265–420), but remains the oldest surviving collection of Taoist hagiography (Theobald 2010).\n\nThe attribution of the \"Liexian zhuan\" to Liu Xiang occurred relatively early, and it was accepted by the Eastern Jin Daoist scholar Ge Hong (Penny 2008: 653). Ge's c. 330 \"Baopuzi\" describes how Liu redacted his \"Liexian Zhuan\" in a context explaining the reason Liu failed to produce an alchemical gold elixir using the private method of Liu An was because no teacher had transmitted the necessary oral explanations to him.\nAs for his compilation (撰) of \"Liexian zhuan\", he revised and extracted (自刪…出) passages from the book by the Qin grandee Ruan Cang 阮倉, and in some cases [added] things he had personally seen (或所親見), and only thus (然後) came to record (記) it. It is not an unwarranted fabrication ([or \"fiction\"] 非妄言也). (tr. Campany 2002: 104, emending Ware 1966: 51) \nGe Hong uses \"ranhou\" (然後,\"only thus\") to emphasize that the veracity of \"Liexian Zhuan\" biographies is not tainted by Liu Xiang's failure in \"waidan\" alchemy, indicating that the collected stories are reliable because he could not have invented them (Campany 2002: 104). Internal evidence suggests that Liu compiled the \"Liexian zhuan\" in the very last years of his life. Although his authorship is disputed and the text is dated later than the 1st century BCE, \"recent scholars have argued cogently\" for the traditional attribution (Campany 1996: 41). He concludes that the ascription to Liu Xiang is \"not wholly incredible, but the text we have today contains later accretions and has also dropped some passages\" (Campany 2009: 7).\n\nSince Liu Xiang was an orthodox Confucianist and not a Daoist, his \"Liexian Zhuan\" depiction of transcendents' lives represents knowledge from general Han culture rather than a specific religious community. In subsequent generations, his hagiography became widely known as a source for literary allusion among educated Chinese of later periods (Penny 2008: 653).\n\nFrom a higher perspective, the question of Liu Xiang's authorship \"is irrelevant\", because the received text is not the original. The \"Liexian Zhuan\" was transmitted in diverse manuscript copies for ten centuries, until the Song dynasty 1019 Daoist Canon incorporated a standard edition (Pas 1998: 55).\n\nThe \"Liexian Zhuan\" exists in many, sometimes dissimilar, versions. For instance, the original text likely contained 72 hagiographies, yet the standard version has 70, and others have 71. The c. 1029 Daoist encyclopedia \"Yunji Qiqian\" includes 48 hagiographies (Campany 1996: 41).\n\nTwo Tang dynasty \"leishu\" Chinese encyclopedias, the 624 \"Yiwen Leiju\" and 983 \"Taiping Yulan\" extensively quote from the \"Liexian Zhuan\" (Theobald 2010). Analysis of \"Liexian zhuan\" citations preserved in these and other old sources shows that some portions of the original text have been lost from all surviving versions (Penny 2008: 653).\n\nThe earliest extant version of the \"Liexian Zhuan\" is from the Ming dynasty 1445 \"Zhengtong daozang\" (正統道藏, \"Daoist Canon of the Zhengtong Era, 1436-1450\"). Several other Ming and Qing editions of the text were published, including two \"jiàozhèng\" (校正, \"corrected; rectified\") versions (Campany 1996: 40-41).\n\n\"Liexian Zhuan\" is also the title of a different Yuan dynasty (1206-1368) collection of 55 \"xian\" biographies, including the popular Eight Immortals, with woodcut illustrations (Giles 1948: 11).\n\nThe present Daoist canonical \"Liexian Zhuan\", which is divided into two chapters, comprises about 70 \"tersely worded\" hagiographies of transcendents (Campany 2009: 7). In many cases, the \"Liexian Zhuan\" is the only early source referring to an individual transcendent (Pas 1998: 56). The collection does not offer anything resembling a full biography, but only a few informative anecdotes about each person. The briefest entries have fewer than 200 characters (Penny 2008: 653).\n\nEmploying the traditional \"liezhuan\" (\"arrayed lives\") biographical arrangement, the \"Liexian Zhuan\" arranges its Daoist hagiographies in roughly chronological order, starting with the mythological figure Chisongzi who was Rain Master for the culture hero Shennong (mythically dated to the 28th century BCE), and ending with the Western Han herbalist and \"fangshi\" Xuan Su 玄俗. They include individuals \"of every rank and station, ranging from purely mythical beings to hermits, heroes, and men and women of the common people\" (Giles 1948: 13). The collection includes mythic personages (e.g., Yellow Emperor and Pengzu who allegedly lived over 800 years), famous Daoists (Laozi and Yinxi the Guardian of the Pass), and historical figures (Anqi Sheng who instructed Qin Shi Huang (r. 247-220 BCE) and Dongfang Shuo the court jester for Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BCE)) (Penny 2008: 654).\n\nThe standard format for \"Liexian zhuan\" entries is to give the subject's name, sometimes style name, usually native place (or the formulaic \"No one knows where he came from\"), and often the period in which he or she supposedly lived. Sometime after the 330s, the text was appended with sets of laudatory \"zàn\" (贊, \"encomia\") that are rhymed hymns praising the recorded \"xian\" (Penny 2008: 653-654). Some editions include an old preface, of uncertain authorship and date, that is not included in the Daoist canonical edition (Campany 1996: 40-41).\n\nTwo sample hagiographies illustrate some common themes in the \"Liexian Zhuan\". First, many stories focus on the supernatural techniques of transcendents and how they acquired them (Campany 1996: 41). Mashi Huang () was a legendary equine veterinarian during the Yellow Emperor's reign.\n...a horse doctor in the time of the Yellow Emperor. He knew the vital symptoms in a horse's constitution, and on receiving his treatment the animal would immediately get well. Once a dragon flew down and approached him with drooping ears and open jaws. Huang said to himself: \"This dragon is ill and knows that I can effect a cure.\" Thereupon he performed acupuncture on its mouth just below the upper lip, and gave it a decoction of sweet herbs to swallow, which caused it to recover. Afterwards, whenever the dragon was ailing, it issued from its watery lair and presented itself for treatment. One morning the dragon took Huang on its back and bore him away (tr. Giles 1948: 13)\n\nSecond, hagiographies often didactically represent \"xian\" using their transcendental powers to support the poor and helpless (Theobald 2010). Chang Rong () was able to maintain the appearance of a young woman for two centuries by only eating \"Rubus crataegifolius\" (Korean raspberry) roots:\nChang Rong was a follower of the Dao from Mount Chang (Changshan 常山; i.e., the Hengshan, Shanxi). She called herself the daughter of the King of Yin (Yinwang nǚ 殷王女) and ate roots of rubus (\"penglei\" 蓬虆). She would come and go, ascending and descending. People saw her for some two hundred years yet she always looked about twenty. When she was able to get purple grass she sold it to dyers and gave the proceeds to widows and orphans. It was like this for generations. Thousands came to make offerings at her shrine. (tr. Penny 2008: 654) \nResearchers have found evidence of anti-inflammatory effects from \"R. crataegifolius\" root extracts (Cao et al. 1996).\n\nThird, like the above \"decoction of sweet herbs\" and \"roots of rubus\", about half the transcendents described in the \"Liexian Zhuan\" had powers that ultimately came from drugs. For instance, after Master Redpine took a drug called \"shuiyu\" (水玉, \"liquid jade\") denoting quartz crystals in solution (Campany 2002: 230), he transformed himself by fire, and ascended to Mount Kunlun where he lived with the Queen Mother of the West. The text mentions many herbal and mineral drugs, including pine nuts, pine resin, China root, fungus, Chinese angelica, cinnabar powder, and mica (Kohn 1989: 76).\n\nThere are no full English translations of the text analogous to the French critical edition and annotated translation \"Le Lie-sien tchouan\" by Kaltenmark (1953) (Penny 2008: 654). Giles translated eight \"Liexian Zhuan\" entries (1948), and Campany's annotated translation of the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" (2002) frequently cites the \"Liexian Zhuan\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3763522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3763522", "title": "List of Tosafists", "text": "List of Tosafists\n\nTosafists were medieval rabbis from France and Germany who are among those known in Talmudical scholarship as Rishonim (there were Rishonim in Spain also) who created critical and explanatory glosses (questions, notes, interpretations, rulings and sources) on the Talmud. These were collectively called Tosafot (\"additions\"), because they were additions on the commentary of Rashi. The \"Tosafists\" lived from the 12th century to the middle of the 15th century and the Tosafot are a compilation of the questions, answers and opinions of those rabbis. The Tosafot are very important to the practical application of Jewish law because the law will differ depending on how the Talmud is understood and interpreted.\n\nEach generation of the \"Tosafists\" would add to those compilations and therefore there are many different versions of the \"Tosafos\". In addition each compilation of the \"Tosafos\" did not contain everything that was said by the \"Tosafists\" on the subject so compilations will differ in what they say. For this reason some things that were said by the \"Tosafists\" will be found only in obscure versions of the \"Tosafos\".\n\nThe final version of these commentaries was published on the outer side of the Soncino edition of the Talmud, printed in Soncino, Italy (16th century), and was the first printed edition of the full Talmud. The publisher of that edition was a nephew of Rabbi Moshe of Spires (Shapiro) who was of the last generation of \"Tosafists\" and who initiated a project of writing a final compilation of the \"Tosafos\". Before he published his Talmud he traveled throughout France to the schools where the \"Tosafists\" learned and gathered all of the different manuscripts of that final version of the \"Tosafos\" and printed them in his Talmud. Since then every publication of the Talmud was printed with the \"Tosafos\" on the outer side of the page (the inner side has the commentary of Rashi) and is an integral part of the study of the Talmud.\n\nDuring the period of the \"Tosafists\" the church enacted a law that prohibited possession of the Talmud under pain of death and 24 wagon loads of scrolls of the Talmud were gathered from all of France and burned in the center of Paris. The intention of the church was that the study of the Talmud should be forgotten and once forgotten it would remain forgotten for all generations since there would be nobody to teach it. As a result, the \"Tosafists\" devised a system where they could study the Talmud without the existence of a text despite the vastness of the Talmud. They appointed scholars, each to be expert in one the volumes of the Talmud, to know it by heart and very well, and so through these scholars they would have expertise and knowledge in all of the Talmud. As they would study a particular text in one volume of the Talmud those scholars who were expert in different volumes of the Talmud would tell of anything in the volume of the Talmud that they were expert on that would contradict their understanding of the text at hand. Thus an important aspect of the scholarship of the \"Tosafists\" is to use texts in different areas of the Talmud to disprove certain interpretations of the Talmud (often those of Rashi) and to determine the correct way to understand the Talmud.\n\nOf the great number of tosafists only forty-four are known by name. The following is an alphabetical list of them; many, however, are known only through citations.\n\nQuoted in the edited Tosafot to Tractate Kesubos 14b, 19a, 20b, 21a et seq.\n\nFlourished in the middle of the thirteenth century; his tosafot are mentioned in the edited tosafot to Ket. 63b.\n\nHis tosafot, entitled \"Tosefot ha-Rosh\" or \"Tosefe Tosafot,\" appeared in various epochs and works. Many of them were inserted by Bezalel Ashkenazi in his \"Shiṭṭah Meḳubbeẓet\"; those to Yebamot and Ketubot appeared separately at Livorno, 1776; to Sotah, partly at Prague, 1725, and partly in Jacob Faitusi's \"Mar'eh ha-Ofannim\" (1810); to Megillah_ and Shevuot, in Elijah Borgel's \"Migdanot Natan\" (1785); and to Kiddushin, in the \"Ma'aseh Roḳem\" (Pisa, 1806). They are included in the Vilna Romm edition of the Talmud.\n\n(see above and Jewish Encyclopedia ii. 559).\n\nAuthor of tosafot to Baba Ḳamma, extracts from which are found in Bezalel Ashkenazi's \"Shiṭṭah Meḳubbeẓet.\"\n\nFlourished at the end of the twelfth century; his tosafot are mentioned by Abraham b. David in his \"Temim De'im\" and in the edited tosafot to B. M. 11b and Sheb. 28a. His tosafot to Nedarim are referred to by Joseph Colon (Responsa, No. 52); those to Megillah, in Isaiah di Trani's \"Ha-Makria'\" (No. 31, p. 19d); those to 'Abodah Zarah, in \"Mordekai\" (No. 1364).\n\nFlourished in the beginning of the thirteenth century; author of tosafot to several treatises (comp. Michael, \"Or ha-Ḥayyim,\" No. 427).\n\nWrote about the Persecution of 1096.\n\nAuthor of tosafot to several treatises, of which those to Ḥullin were seen by Azulai.\n\nFrench tosafist of the beginning of the thirteenth century, whose tosafot are mentioned by Zedekiah Anaw in his \"Shibbole ha-Leḳeṭ.\"\n\n(see above and Jewish Encyclopedia v. 120).\n\nHis tosafot are mentioned in \"Haggahot Maimuniyyot,\" Ḳinnim, No. 20.\n\n(RI, probably R. Isaac, but not to be confused with Isaac b. Samuel ha-Zaḳen, who occurs most often as RI) His tosafot, in which the older RI is quoted, are mentioned by Samson b. Zadok (\"Tashbeẓ,\" § 336).\n\nBrother of Samson ben Abraham of Sens. Succeeded his teacher Isaac ben Samuel ha-Zaḳen as head of the school of Dampierre, and as a result is also known as Rabbi Isaac ha-Baḥur, or RIBA (\"Rabbi Isaac the Younger\").\n\n(see above and Jewish Encyclopedia vi. 620).\n\nPupil of Rabbeinu Tam and one of the earlier tosafists (\"ba'ale tosafot yeshanim\"). He was the author of a commentary on Ketubot quoted by Isaac Or Zarua' (see Judah Minz, Responsa, No. 10). He is quoted very often in the edited tosafot (Yeb. 5b; B. Ḳ. 72a; et al.).\n\nGrandson of Rashi, and brother of Samuel b. Meïr (RaSHBaM) and Jacob Tam; died before his father, leaving four children (Jacob Tam, \"Sefer ha-Yashar,\" No. 616, p. 72b, Vienna, 1811). Although he died young, Isaac wrote tosafot, mentioned by Eliezer b. Joel ha-Levi (\"Abi ha-'Ezri,\" § 417), to several treatises of the Talmud. Isaac himself is often quoted in the edited tosafot (Shab. 138a; Ket. 29b et passim).\n\nFlourished in the twelfth century; pupil of Isaac b. Asher ha-Levi. He corresponded with Jacob Tam and was a fellow pupil of Moses b. Joel and Ephraim b. Isaac. His tosafot are quoted by Eliezer b. Joel ha-Levi (l.c. § 420) and Meïr of Rothenburg (\"Semaḥot,\" § 73; \"Haggahot Maimuniyyot,\" Abelot, p. 294a). He is often quoted also in the edited tosafot (Ket. 55a; B. Ḳ. 22b et passim).\n\nHis tosafot are mentioned in the \"Shiṭṭah Meḳubbeẓet,\" Ketubot, 43a. He may be identical with the Isaac b. Reuben who made a comment on Rashi to B. Ḳ. 32d.\n\nalso known as the Ri ha-Zaken, a French tosafist and Biblical commentator who flourished in the twelfth century.\n\nItalian tosafist of the first half of the thirteenth century. The greater part of his tosafot were published under the title \"Tosefot R. Yesha'yahu\" (Lemberg, 1861–69); and many were inserted by Bezaleel Ashkenazi in his \"Shiṭṭah Meḳubbeẓet.\"\n\nLived in the middle of the thirteenth century; mentioned as an author of tosafot in \"Mordekai\" (to 'Ab. Zarah, Nos. 1244, 1279, 1295, 1356) and \"Haggahot Mordekai\" (to Shab. xiv.). Extracts from the tosafot of Israel's pupils were reproduced by Bezaleel Ashkenazi (l.c.).\n\nSupposedly a contemporary of Meïr b. Baruch of Rothenburg, and perhaps identical with Judah ha-Kohen, Meïr's relative. In the extracts from his tosafot to Baba Ḳamma, inserted in the \"Shiṭṭah Meḳubbeẓet,\" he quotes, among many other authorities, his still living teacher, the Kohen whom Zunz (\"Z. G.\" p. 42) supposes to be identical with Abigdor b. Elijah ha-Kohen. From the \"Shiṭṭah Meḳubbeẓet\" to Baba Meẓi'a it is seen that J. Cohen wrote tosafot to the same treatise.\n\nLived in the thirteenth century; pupil of Isaac ben Abraham, author of a \"Shiṭṭah\" (\"Mordekai,\" on Sanh., No. 928). He himself is quoted in the edited tosafot (Ber. 12a; Nazir 53a; et al.).\n\nFlourished at Speyer about 1130; a pupil of Kalonymus b. Isaac the Elder (Eliezer b. Nathan, \"Eben ha-'Ezer,\" p. 13c, Prague, 1610). He was the author of tosafot (\"Haggahot Maimuniyyot,\" Ḳinnim, No. 16) and of decisions (\"pesaḳim\"; \"Mordekai,\" Ḥul., No. 1183). He is quoted also in the edited tosafot (to Ḳin. 23a).\n\n(see above and Jewish Encyclopedia vii. 36).\n\nHis tosafot are quoted as authoritative by Perez ben Elijah (glosses to \"'Ammude Golah,\" p. 50a, Cremona, 1556), in \"Kol Bo\" (No. 114), and in \"Mordekai\" (Ḥul., No. 924). He is frequently quoted also in the edited tosafot.\n\nFlourished, according to Zunz (\"Z. G.\" p. 33), about 1150. Zunz identifies this Joseph with the pupil of Samuel b. Meïr whose glosses are quoted in the edited tosafot (to Ket. 70a), and thinks he may be identical with the Joseph of Orleans often cited in the edited tosafot (Shab. 12a et passim). If so, he must be identified, according to Henri Gross (\"Gallia Judaica\", p. 34), with Joseph ben Isaac Bekor Shor. Weiss, however, suggests that this Joseph might have been either Joseph Bonfils, Jacob Tam's teacher, or Joseph b. Isaac of Troyes, one of Rashi's pupils. Thus it seems that in any case the tosafist mentioned in the \"Sefer ha-Yashar\" must be distinguished from the one mentioned in Tos. Ket. 70a, as the latter was a pupil of R. Samuel.\n\nMany fragments of his tosafot to Shabbat are included in the edited tosafot.\n\n(see above and Jewish Encyclopedia vii. 344).\n\nSon-in-law and pupil of Rashi, and to a great extent his continuator. It was Judah who completed Rashi's commentary on Makkot (from 19b to the end) and who wrote the commentary on Nazir which is erroneously attributed to Rashi. He wrote, besides, independent commentaries on 'Erubin, Shabbat, Yebamot (Eliezer b. Joel ha-Levi, \"Abi ha-'Ezri,\" §§ 183, 385, 397, 408), and Pesaḥim (\"Semag,\" prohibition No. 79). Finally, Halberstam manuscript No. 323 contains a fragment of Judah's commentary on Nedarim. It is generally considered that Judah b. Nathan wrote tosafot to several treatises of the Talmud, and he is mentioned as a tosafist in \"Haggahot Mordekai\" (Sanh., No. 696). He is often quoted in the edited tosafot.\n\nHis tosafot are quoted in the \"Mordekai\" (B. M. iv., end).\n\nSee above and Jew. Encyc. viii. 437.\n\nHis tosafot are mentioned by his son Jacob Tam (\"Sefer ha-Yashar,\" No. 252) and often in the edited tosafot.\n\nAuthor of Old Tosafot to Yoma and of some published in the collection \"Sugyot ha-Shas\" (Berlin, 1736).\n\nFlourished in the thirteenth century; probably a pupil of Judah b. Isaac of Paris. His tosafot were used by the compiler of the \"Haggahot Maimuniyyot\" (see Jew. Encyc. ix. 86).\n\n(see above and Jewish Encyclopedia ix. 65).\n\n13th Century Tosafist from Bohemia.\n\n(see above and Jewish Encyclopedia ix. 600).\n\nMentioned in Baba Kama 2b s.v. \"umilta,\" as well as by Hagahot Maimoniyot to Rambam's laws of chametz and matzah, chapter 6, note 9.\n\n(see above and Jewish. Encyclopedia xi. 2).\n\nFlourished in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries; author of the \"Sefer Keritut.\" In this work (i. 7, § 1; v. 3, §§ 120, 148) Samson refers to his glosses on 'Erubin and 'Abodah Zarah; he appears to have written glosses on other Talmudic treatises also.\n\nAuthor of tosafot to several treatises; those to Soṭah are among the edited tosafot (see Jew. Encyc. xi. 16).\n\nAuthor of tosafot to Alfasi; under his supervision his pupils prepared tosafot to several treatises (\"Sefer ha-Yashar,\" p. 85d).\n\nGerman Talmudist of the end of the twelfth century; authorof tosafot to 'Abodah Zarah (see \"Kerem Ḥemed,\" vii. 50).\n\n(see above and Jewish Encyclopedia xi. 28).\n\nFlourished in the thirteenth century; his tosafot are mentioned by Meïr of Rothenburg (Responsa, iv., No. 154).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26197822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26197822", "title": "List of mosques in Iraq", "text": "List of mosques in Iraq\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Iraq. There are 7,000 Sunni mosques and 3,500 Shia mosques in Iraq as a whole. According to the Office of Waqf and Sunnah in Iraq, in the capital city of Baghdad, there are 912 Jama Masjids which conduct Friday Prayer and 149 smaller mosques which only hold regular daily prayers. In Falujah, there are 970 mosques according to the 2009 data.\n\n"}
{"id": "14641208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14641208", "title": "List of names of Vishnu", "text": "List of names of Vishnu\n\nThe following is the list of names of Vedic Lord Vishnu from Vishnu Sahasranama of Mahabharata.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56609319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56609319", "title": "Machideva Jayanthi", "text": "Machideva Jayanthi\n\nMachideva Jayanthi is traditionally observed by the Lingayats and is observed as a celebrate in the Indian state of Karnataka. It marks the birthday of Madivala Machideva, 12th-century Warrior-Saint, and the founding saint of the Lingayat religion. It is celebrated with much pomp and gaiety all over south India, majorly in Karnataka, Maharashtra,Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.\n"}
{"id": "27188686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27188686", "title": "Mermaid (Ninurta)", "text": "Mermaid (Ninurta)\n\nThe Mermaid (from Sumerian Kuli-ana: mermaid) in Sumerian mythology was one of the Heroes slain by Ninurta, patron god of Lagash, in ancient Iraq. Her body was hung on the foot-board of Ninurta's chariot (lines 55-63 ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33443475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33443475", "title": "Muhammerah", "text": "Muhammerah\n\nMuhammerah or Muhammira (\"The Crimson, The Red\") were Mazdaki groups such as the followers of al-Muqanna, the Khurramites and the Kūl’īyyah. The members of these groups were active in region of modern Khorramshahr in Khorramshahr County, Khuzestan Province, Iran.\n\nThe Khurramites were those who followed the charismatic individuals Babak Khorramdin and Mazyar.\n\nTurkic Muslim sects included followers of \"Bû’ Müslim’îyye, Muhammerah, and Ishâk at-Türk’îyye madh'habs,\" all of them were the extension of “Rizâm’îyyah”, “Riyâh’îyyah” and “Râvend’îyyah” madh'habs. All these madh'habs had a shared doctrines of a belief in the incarnation belief of their Imams. Like “Mukhtâr’îyyah”, “Hâshim’îyyah” and “Khashabiyya Shia”, they were all from the Ghulat Shia madh'hab of Keysân’îyyah defending the godness of Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyyah, another son of Ali from his wife Khawlah bint Ja'far.\n\nAccording to , The Qizilbash were the spiritual descendants of the Khurramites.\n\n"}
{"id": "37924473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37924473", "title": "Mumboism", "text": "Mumboism\n\nMumboism, also known as the Mumbo cult, was a new religious movement founded by Onyango Dunde in the early 20th century. Followers of the religion, known as Mumboites, were most active in the Nyanza region of Kenya near Lake Victoria. The movement had anti-imperial teachings and was suppressed by the colonial government of Kenya.\n\nMumboism began during the British colonial era in Kenya, when Christian missionaries were active in the region. In 1913, Onyango Dunde began to preach that he had been swallowed by a serpent in Lake Victoria. The serpent spit him out, and gave him a prophecy that he would spread to his followers:\nI am the God Mumbo whose two homes are in the sun and in the lake. I have chosen you to be my mouthpiece. Go and tell all the Africans... that from henceforth I am their God. Those whom I choose personally and those who acknowledge me, will live forever in plenty... the Christian religion is rotten... All Europeans are your enemies, but the time is shortly coming when they will all disappear from the country.\"\n\nIn keeping with the prophecy, Dunde condemned European culture, Christianity, and the influence of colonialism. He also prophesied a golden age that would arrive with the end of the European presence in the region. Mumboism was popular among the Luo and Kisii people, but its influence spread beyond Africans who were formally followers of Dunde.\n\nMumboism's teachings have been characterized as a strain of millennialism, anticipating a golden age, perhaps influenced by Christian teachings of a cataclysmic end to the current world's existence. Some teachings were that \"water would turn into blood, and only Mumboites would have drinking water, all white people would disappear leaving only Africans as sole survivors, or the Germans would come and cut off the arms of those in clothes (i.e., Europeans and Westernized Africans). [...] The projected utopia would be a time of role reversal, healing, and plenty that could only be effected by traditional sacrifices and rituals\".\n\nIn the years following the end of World War I, many of the Kisii (AbaGusii) became followers of Mumboism in growing numbers. Some factors contributing to this were frustration with the colonial government due to deteriorating agricultural, trade and health conditions among the Kisii people, fluctuating currency value, and the colonial administration's increasingly burdensome demands concerning taxation, labour owed to the colonial government, and requirements for registration.\n\nThe golden age prophecy of an end to European government appealed to the Kisii, who had openly revolted against the colonial administration in 1905, 1908 and 1914, only to be defeated by the Europeans. Its appeal among the Kisii people was small during times of prosperity, when meeting the colonial administration's demands was easier. During times of economic hardship, its religious and political appeal grew among the Kisii.\n\nThe Bogonko clan, the wealthiest and most influential among the Kisii, were adherents of Mumboism. Their position had been undermined by the European presence, and they were leaders of Mumboism particularly among the Kitutu subclan.\n\nThe colonial administration was threatened by the anti-European message of Mumboism. The colonial government ultimately banned Mumboism in 1954. Much earlier in 1921, it had exiled Dunde and other Mumbo leaders to the holy Islamic island of Lamu in the Indian Ocean. A 1919 government report had listed important leaders of the movement, some of whom were openly opposed to the colonial government: Mosi Auma of Kabondo, Nyakundi of Kitutu, Omwenga of Wanjare.\n\nThe colonial administration had a tendency to conflate Mumboism with other indigenous religious beliefs, such as the cult around the late prophet Sakawa (Zakawa), who it was said had prophesied European rule, the building of the railroad and the site of Kisii. Mumboism was not the sole religious movement in Central or Eastern Africa to reflect anti-European sentiment. The Kamba people around Machakos, Kenya, had a millennial cult that developed in the interwar years around the prophet Ndonye wa Kauti, which had parallels with Mumboism.\n\nDini ya Msambwa or Nsambwa (DYM), \"religion of the ancestral spirits\", was another rejection of Christianity that developed during the early 20th century in Kenya. It was founded by Elijah Masinde, among the Babukusu. Yet another new religious movement was the Karing'a movement, influenced by Agikuyu religious ideal concepts similar to democracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875329", "title": "Nathan Gregory Silvermaster", "text": "Nathan Gregory Silvermaster\n\nNathan Gregory Silvermaster (November 27, 1898 – October 7, 1964), an economist with the United States War Production Board (WPB) during World War II, was the head of a large ring of Communist spies in the U.S. government. It is from him that the FBI Silvermaster File\n, documenting the Bureau's investigation into Communist penetration of the Federal government during the 1930s and 1940s, takes its name. His wife, Helen and stepson, Anatole Volkov, were members of his ring.\n\nHe was identified as a Soviet agent in the WPB operating under the code names Pel, Pal, \"Paul\" in the Venona decrypts; and as \"Robert\" both in Venona and independently by defecting Soviet intelligence courier Elizabeth Bentley.\n\nSilvermaster was born to a Jewish family in Odessa, Russia (present-day Odessa, Ukraine) in 1898. He moved with his family to China, where he learned to speak perfect English with a British accent. He emigrated to the United States and earned his B.A. from the University of Washington in Seattle (where he was \"stated to be a known Communist\") and a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley, where his thesis was entitled \"Lenin's Economic Thought Prior to the October Revolution\". He became a naturalized American citizen in 1926. He was reported to be in contact with a very large number of Communist Party USA officials, and was active in a number of Communist front groups.\n\nFrom August 1935 to November 1938, Silvermaster worked in the Farm Security Administration. From November 1938 to July 1940, he worked on the Maritime Labor Board. From July 1940 to December 1944, he worked in the Department of Agriculture.\n\nWhile nominally remaining on the employment rolls of the Farm Security Administration, Silvermaster arranged in 1942 to be detailed to the Board of Economic Warfare. The transfer, however, triggered objections from military counter-intelligence who suspected he was a hidden Communist and regarded him as a security risk. On July 16, 1942 the U.S. Civil Service Commission recommended \"Cancel eligibilities ... and bar him for the duration of the National Emergency.\" \n\nSilvermaster denied any Communist links and appealed to Under Secretary of War Robert Patterson to overrule the security officials. Both White House advisor Lauchlin Currie (identified in Venona as the Soviet agent operating under the cover name \"Page\") and Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Harry Dexter White (identified in Venona as the Soviet agent operating under the cover names \"Lawyer\"; \"Jurist\"; \"Richard\") intervened on his behalf. Silvermaster subsequently received two promotions and pay raises.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1945, he was also assigned to the United States Treasury. In mid-1945, he joined the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (later War Assets Corporation). In March 1946, he resigned from government.\n\nOn August 28, 1950, Lee Pressman (a member of the Ware Group, a precursor to the Silvermaster and Perlo) said of Silvermaster, \"I believe he was with the Maritime Labor Board when I was with the CIO, and in that connection I may have had some business dealings with him\" (apparently referring to Silvermasters time with that union 1938–1940).\n\nKathryn S. Olmsted, the author of \"Red Spy Queen\" (2002), points out: \"Every two weeks, Elizabeth would travel to Washington to pick up documents from the Silvermasters, collect their Party dues, and deliver Communist literature. Soon the flow of documents grew so large that Ullmann, an amateur photographer, set up a darkroom in their basement. Elizabeth usually collected at least two or three rolls of microfilmed secret documents, and one time received as many as forty. She would stuff all the film and documents into a knitting bag or other innocent feminine accessory, then take it back to New York on the train.\" Moscow complained that around half of the photographed documents received in the summer of 1944 were unreadable and suggested that Ullmann receive more training. However, Pavel Fitin, who was responsible for analyzing the material, described it as very important data.\n\nAt the War Production Board, Silvermaster was able to provide the Soviet Union with a large amount of data on arms, aircraft, and shipping production. In June 1943, Silvermaster sent a War Production Board report on arms production in the United States, including bombers, pursuit planes, tanks, propelled guns, howitzers, radar and submarines, sub chasers, and the like, to Soviet intelligence. Then, in December 1944, the New York MGB office cabled another Silvermaster report stating: \"(Silvermaster) has sent us a 50-page Top Secret War Production Board report ... on arms production in the U.S.\"\n\nIn 1944, Silvermaster was associated with Harry Dexter White at the Bretton Woods conference, and his testimony before the US Senate Internal Security Subcommittee covers \"175 pages of interrogation and exhibits\" regarding his espionage activities in the U.S. \nThe Silvermaster spy ring operated primarily in the Department of the Treasury but also had contacts in the Army Air Force and in the White House. Sixty-one of the Venona cables concern the activities of the Silvermaster spy ring. This represents 1% of the total (approx 6,000 cables) and 3% of the (2,000) translated/partially translated VENONA cables.\n\nHe died on October 7, 1964, aged 65, possibly in Harvey Cedars, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2601202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2601202", "title": "Neetiya Yuga", "text": "Neetiya Yuga\n\nIn Ayyavazhi mythology, Neetiya Yuga is the first of the Eight Yukams. It was in this Yukam, Kroni was fragmented into six.\n"}
{"id": "320349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320349", "title": "Padre Pio", "text": "Padre Pio\n\nPadre Pio, also known as Saint Pio of Pietrelcina (), O.F.M. Cap. (May 25, 1887September 23, 1968), was a friar, priest, stigmatist, and mystic, now venerated as a saint of the Catholic church. Born Francesco Forgione, he was given the name of Pius () when he joined the Order of Friars Minor Capuchin.\n\nPadre Pio became famous for exhibiting stigmata for most of his life, thereby generating much interest and controversy. He was both beatified (1999) and canonized (2002) by Pope John Paul II.\n\nThe Sanctuary of Saint Pio of Pietrelcina is located in San Giovanni Rotondo, Province of Foggia, Italy.\n\nFrancesco Forgione was born to Grazio Mario Forgione (1860–1946) and Maria Giuseppa Di Nunzio (1859–1929) on May 25, 1887, in Pietrelcina, a town in the southern Italian region of Campania. His parents were peasant farmers. He was baptized in the nearby Santa Anna Chapel, which stands upon the walls of a castle. He later served as an altar server in this same chapel. He had an older brother, Michele, and three younger sisters, Felicita, Pellegrina, and Grazia (who was later to become a Bridgettine nun). His parents had two other children who died in infancy. When he was baptized, he was given the name Francesco. He stated that by the time he was five years old, he had already made the decision to dedicate his entire life to God. He worked on the land up to the age of 10, looking after the small flock of sheep the family owned. \n\nPietrelcina was a town where feast days of saints were celebrated throughout the year, and the Forgione family was deeply religious. They attended Mass daily, prayed the Rosary nightly, and abstained from meat three days a week in honor of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. Although Francesco's parents and grandparents were illiterate, they narrated Bible stories to their children. His mother said that Francesco was able to see and speak with Jesus, the Virgin Mary, and his guardian angel, and that as a child he assumed that all people could do so.\n\nAccording to the diary of Father Agostino da San Marco, who was his spiritual director in San Marco in Lamis, the young Francesco Forgione was afflicted with a number of illnesses. At six he suffered from severe gastroenteritis. At ten he caught typhoid fever.\nAs a youth, Francesco reported that he had experienced heavenly visions and ecstasies. In 1897, after he had completed three years at the public school, Francesco was said to have been drawn to the life of a friar after listening to a young Capuchin friar who was in the countryside seeking donations. When Francesco expressed his desire to his parents, they made a trip to Morcone, a community north of Pietrelcina, to find out if their son was eligible to enter the Capuchin Order. The friars there informed them that they were interested in accepting Francesco into their community, but he needed to be better educated.\n\nFrancesco's father went to the United States in search of work to pay for private tutoring for his son, to meet the academic requirements to enter the Capuchin Order. It was in this period that Francesco received the sacrament of Confirmation on September 27, 1899. He underwent private tutoring and passed the stipulated academic requirements. On January 6, 1903, at the age of 15, he entered the novitiate of the Capuchin friars at Morcone. On January 22, he took the Franciscan habit and the name of Fra (Friar) Pio, in honor of Pope St. Pius I, whose relic is preserved in the Santa Anna Chapel in Pietrelcina. He took the simple vows of poverty, chastity and obedience.\n\nCommencing his seven-year study for the priesthood, Fra Pio travelled to the friary of Saint Francis of Assisi by oxcart. At 17, he suddenly fell ill, complaining of loss of appetite, insomnia, exhaustion, fainting spells, and terrible migraines. He vomited frequently and could digest only milk and cheese. Religious devotees and hagiographers point to this time, when he was suffering physical illness, that inexplicable phenomena allegedly began to occur. During prayers, Pio appeared to others to be in a stupor, as if he were absent. One of Pio's fellow friars later claimed to have seen him in ecstasy, levitating above the ground.\n\nIn June 1905, Fra Pio's health worsened to such an extent that his superiors decided to send him to a mountain convent, in the hope that the change of air would do him some good. This had little impact, however, and doctors advised that he return to his home town. Even there his health failed to improve. Despite this, On January 27, 1907, he still made his solemn profession.\n\nIn 1910, Pio was subsequently ordained a priest by Archbishop Paolo Schinosi at the Cathedral of Benevento. Four days later, he offered his first Mass at the parish church of Our Lady of the Angels. His health being precarious, he was permitted to remain with his family until 1916 while still retaining the Capuchin habit. \n\nOn September 4, 1916, however, Pio was ordered to return to his community life. He moved to an agricultural community, Our Lady of Grace Capuchin Friary, located in the Gargano Mountains in San Giovanni Rotondo in the Province of Foggia. At that time the community numbered in total seven friars. He went on to remain at San Giovanni Rotondo until his death in 1968, except for a period of military service. Padre Pio celebrated the Mass in Latin, as was the widespread custom of the time. In the priesthood, Padre Pio was known to perform successful conversions which included freemasons.\n\nWhen World War I started, four friars from this community were selected for military service. At that time, Padre Pio was a teacher at the seminary and a spiritual director. When one more friar was called into service, Padre Pio was put in charge of the community. On November 15, 1915, he was drafted into the Italian army and on December 6, assigned to the 10th Medical Corps in Naples. Due to poor health, he was continually discharged and recalled until on March 16, 1918, he was declared unfit for military service and discharged. In all, his military service lasted 182 days.\n\nOn September 20, 1918, while hearing confessions, Padre Pio had his first occurrence of the stigmata: bodily marks, pain, and bleeding in locations corresponding to the crucifixion wounds of Jesus Christ. This phenomenon continued for fifty years, until the end of his life. The blood flowing from the stigmata purportedly smelled of perfume or flowers, a phenomenon mentioned in stories of the lives of several saints and often referred to as the \"odour of sanctity\". Though Padre Pio said he would have preferred to suffer in secret, by early 1919, news about the stigmatic friar began to spread in the secular world. Padre Pio’s wounds are said to have been examined by many people, including physicians.\nPeople who had started rebuilding their lives after World War I, began to see in Padre Pio a symbol of hope. Those close to him attest that he began to manifest several spiritual gifts, including the gifts of healing, bilocation, levitation, prophecy, miracles, extraordinary abstinence from both sleep and nourishment (one account states that Padre Agostino recorded one instance in which Padre Pio was able to subsist for at least 20 days at Verafeno on only the Eucharist without any other nourishment), the ability to read hearts, the gift of tongues, the gift of conversions, and pleasant-smelling wounds.\n\nHis stigmata, regarded as evidence of holiness, were studied by physicians whose independence from the Church is not known. The observations were unexplainable and the wounds never became infected. His wounds healed once but reappeared. They were examined by Luigi Romanelli, chief physician of the City Hospital of Barletta, for about one year. Dr. Giorgio Festa, a private practitioner, also examined them in 1920 and 1925. Professor Giuseppe Bastianelli, physician to Pope Benedict XV, agreed that the wounds existed but made no other comment. Pathologist Dr. Amico Bignami of the University of Rome also observed the wounds but could make no diagnosis. Both Bignami and Dr. Giuseppe Sala commented on the unusually smooth edges of the wounds and lack of edema. Dr. Alberto Caserta took x-rays of Padre Pio's hands in 1954 and found no abnormality in the bone structure.\n\nHe was said to act embarrassed by this condition and most photographs show him wearing red mittens or black coverings on his hands and feet where the bleeding occurred. At the time of Padre Pio's death, his body appeared unwounded, with no sign of scarring. There was a report that doctors who examined his body found it empty of all blood.\n\nThere were both religious and non-religious critics who accused Padre Pio of faking his stigmata, saying he used carbolic acid to make the wounds. In 2007, \"The Telegraph\" reported on the book, \"The Other Christ: Padre Pio and 19th Century Italy,\" by the historian Sergio Luzzatto. He recounted that in 1919, according to one document in the Vatican's archive, Maria De Vito, the cousin of a local pharmacist at Foggia, testified that the young Padre Pio bought four grams of carbolic acid in 1919. The Catholic Anti-Defamation League said Luzzatto was spreading \"anti-Catholic libels\" and needed to learn more about religion.\n\nThe church dismissed charges that he had faked the stigmata. \"The boys had needed injections to fight the Spanish Flu which was raging at that time. Due to a shortage of doctors, Padres Paolino and Pio administered the shots, using carbolic acid as a sterilizing agent.”\n\nBased on Padre Pio's correspondence, even early in his priesthood he experienced less obvious indications of the visible stigmata for which he would later become famous. In a 1911 letter, Padre Pio wrote to his spiritual advisor Padre Benedetto from San Marco in Lamis, describing something he had been experiencing for a year:\n\nThen last night something happened which I can neither explain nor understand. In the middle of the palms of my hands a red mark appeared, about the size of a penny, accompanied by acute pain in the middle of the red marks. The pain was more pronounced in the middle of the left hand, so much so that I can still feel it. Also under my feet I can feel some pain.\n\nHis close friend Padre Agostino wrote to him in 1915, asking specific questions, such as when he first experienced visions, whether he had been granted the stigmata, and whether he felt the pains of the Passion of Christ, namely the crowning of thorns and the scourging. Padre Pio replied that he had been favoured with visions since his novitiate period (1903 to 1904). He wrote that although he had been granted the stigmata, he had been so terrified by the phenomenon he begged the Lord to withdraw them. He wrote that he did not wish the pain to be removed, only the visible wounds, since at the time he purportedly considered them to be an indescribable and almost unbearable humiliation. The visible wounds disappeared at that point, but reappeared in September 1918. He reported, however, that the pain remained and was more acute on specific days and under certain circumstances. He also said that he was suffering the pain of the crown of thorns and the scourging. He did not define the frequency of these occurrences but said that he had been suffering from them at least once weekly for some years.\n\nThese events are alleged to have caused his health to fail, for which reason he was permitted to stay at home. To maintain his religious life as a friar while away from the community, he celebrated The Holy Mass daily and taught at school.\n\nSt. John of the Cross describes the phenomenon of transverberation as follows:\nThe soul being inflamed with the love of God which is interiorly attacked by a Seraph, who pierces it through with a fiery dart. This leaves the soul wounded, which causes it to suffer from the overflowing of divine love.\nWorld War I continued and in July 1918, Pope Benedict XV, who had termed the World War \"the suicide of Europe,\" appealed to all Christians urging them to pray for an end to the World War. On July 27 of the same year, Padre Pio offered himself as a victim for the end of the war. Days passed and between August 5 and 7, Padre Pio had a vision in which Christ appeared and pierced his side.\n\nAs a result, Padre Pio had a physical wound in his side. This occurrence is considered as a \"transverberation\" or piercing of the heart, indicating the union of love with God. (On 8 August, the Allies began the Hundred Days Offensive, which led to the armistice with Germany and the end of the war.)\n\nAs a side-note, a first-class relic of Padre Pio, which consists of a large framed square of linen bearing a bloodstain from \"the wound of the transverberation of the heart\" in his side, is exposed for public veneration at the St. John Cantius Church in Chicago. Many books published about Saint Pio included a small prayer card with a cloth third-class relic. \nThe occasion of transverberation coincided with a seven-week-long period of spiritual unrest for Padre Pio. One of his Capuchin brothers said this of his state during that period:\n\nDuring this time his entire appearance looked altered as if he had died. He was constantly weeping and sighing, saying that God had forsaken him.\n\nIn a letter from Padre Pio to Padre Benedetto, dated 21 August 1918, Padre Pio writes of his experiences during the transverberation:\n\nWhile I was hearing the boys’ confessions on the evening of the 5th [August] I was suddenly terrorized by the sight of a celestial person who presented himself to my mind’s eye. He had in his hand a sort of weapon like a very long sharp-pointed steel blade which seemed to emit fire. At the very instant that I saw all this, I saw that person hurl the weapon into my soul with all his might. I cried out with difficulty and felt I was dying. I asked the boy to leave because I felt ill and no longer had the strength to continue. This agony lasted uninterruptedly until the morning of the 7th. I cannot tell you how much I suffered during this period of anguish. Even my entrails were torn and ruptured by the weapon, and nothing was spared. From that day on I have been mortally wounded. I feel in the depths of my soul a wound that is always open and which causes me continual agony.\n\nOn September 20, 1918, accounts state that the pains of the transverberation had ceased and Padre Pio was in \"profound peace.\" On that day, as Padre Pio was engaged in prayer in the choir loft in the Church of Our Lady of Grace, the same Being who had appeared to him and given him the transverberation, and who is believed to be the Wounded Christ, appeared again, and Padre Pio had another experience of religious ecstasy. When the ecstasy ended, Padre Pio had received the visible stigmata, the five wounds of Christ. This time, the stigmata were permanent. They stayed visible for the next fifty years of his life.\n\nIn a letter to Padre Benedetto, his superior and spiritual advisor from San Marco in Lamis, dated October 22, 1918, Padre Pio describes his experience of receiving the stigmata:\n\nOn the morning of the 20th of last month, in the choir, after I had celebrated Mass I yielded to a drowsiness similar to a sweet sleep. [...] I saw before me a mysterious person similar to the one I had seen on the evening of 5 August. The only difference was that his hands and feet and side were dripping blood. This sight terrified me and what I felt at that moment is indescribable. I thought I should have died if the Lord had not intervened and strengthened my heart which was about to burst out of my chest. The vision disappeared and I became aware that my hands, feet and side were dripping blood. Imagine the agony I experienced and continue to experience almost every day. The heart wound bleeds continually, especially from Thursday evening until Saturday. Dear Father, I am dying of pain because of the wounds and the resulting embarrassment I feel deep in my soul. I am afraid I shall bleed to death if the Lord does not hear my heartfelt supplication to relieve me of this condition. Will Jesus, who is so good, grant me this grace? Will he at least free me from the embarrassment caused by these outward signs? I will raise my voice and will not stop imploring him until in his mercy he takes away, not the wound or the pain, which is impossible since I wish to be inebriated with pain, but these outward signs which cause me such embarrassment and unbearable humiliation...the pain was so intense that I began to feel as if I were dying on the cross.\n\nIn addition to his childhood illnesses, throughout his life Padre Pio suffered from \"asthmatic bronchitis.\" He also had a large kidney stone, with frequent abdominal pains. He suffered from a chronic gastritis, which later turned into an ulcer. He also suffered from inflammations of the eye, nose, ear, and throat, and eventually formed rhinitis and chronic otitis.\n\nIn 1925, Padre Pio was operated on for an inguinal hernia, and shortly after this a large cyst formed on his neck that was surgically removed. Another surgery was required to remove a malignant tumor on his ear. After this operation Padre Pio was subjected to radiological treatment, which was successful, it seems, after only two treatments.\n\nIn 1956, he came down with a serious case of \"exudative pleuritis\". The diagnosis was certified by Cataldo Cassano, a professor who personally extracted the serous liquid from the body of Padre Pio. He remained bedridden for four consecutive months. In his old age Padre Pio was tormented by painful arthritis.\n\nBecause of the unusual abilities Padre Pio was said to possess, the Holy See instituted investigations of the related accounts. The local bishop, Pasquale Gagliardi, did not believe Padre Pio’s alleged miracles, suggesting that his Capuchin brothers were making a display out of the monk to gain financial advantage. When Pius XI became pope in 1922, the Vatican became extremely doubtful. Padre Pio was subject to numerous investigations.\n\nThe Vatican imposed severe sanctions on Padre Pio to reduce publicity about him: it forbade him from saying Mass in public, blessing people, answering letters, showing his stigmata publicly, and communicating with Padre Benedetto, his spiritual director. Padre Pio was to be relocated to another convent in northern Italy. The local people threatened to riot, and the Vatican left Padre Pio where he was.\n\nFearing these local riots, the Vatican dropped a plan to transfer Padre Pio to another friary, and a second plan for removal was also changed. From 1921 to 1922 he was prevented from publicly performing his priestly duties, such as hearing confessions and saying Mass. From 1924 to 1931, the Holy See made statements denying that the events in Padre Pio's life were due to any divine cause.\n\nThe founder of Milan's Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, friar, physician, and psychologist Agostino Gemelli, met Padre Pio once, for a few minutes, and was unable to examine his stigmata. According to Gemelli, Padre Pio was \"an ignorant and self-mutilating psychopath who exploited people's credulity.\" Gemelli speculated that Padre Pio kept his wounds open with carbolic acid. As a result, Padre Pio was required to wrap the wounds in cloth. For many years, he wore fingerless gloves that concealed his wounds. According to believers, the bleeding continued for some 50 years until the wounds closed within hours of his death.\nAccording to the historian Sergio Luzzatto, a document found in the Vatican's archive reveals the testimony of a cousin of a pharmacist who said that the young Padre Pio bought four grams of carbolic acid in 1919. The archbishop of Manfredonia, Pasquale Gagliardi, reported this as evidence that Padre Pio could have effected the stigmata with acid. This suggestion was examined and dismissed by the Vatican.\nBy 1933, the tide began to turn, with Pope Pius XI ordering the Holy See to reverse its ban on Padre Pio’s public celebration of Mass. The pope said, \"I have not been badly disposed toward Padre Pio, but I have been badly informed.\" In 1934, the friar was again allowed to hear confessions. He was also given honorary permission to preach despite never having taken the exam for the preaching license. Pope Pius XII, who assumed the papacy in 1939, encouraged devotees to visit Padre Pio.\n\nIn 1940, Padre Pio began plans to open a hospital in San Giovanni Rotondo, to be named the Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza or \"Home to Relieve Suffering.\" The hospital opened in 1956. Barbara Ward, a British humanitarian and journalist on assignment in Italy, played a major role in obtaining for this project a grant of $325,000 from the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA). In order that Padre Pio might directly supervise this project, Pope Pius XII in 1957 granted him dispensation from his vow of poverty. Padre Pio's detractors used this project as another weapon to attack him, charging him with misappropriation of funds.\n\nPope Paul VI (pope from 1963 to 1978), in the mid-1960s dismissed all accusations against Padre Pio.\n\nIn 1947, Father Karol Józef Wojtyła (later Pope John Paul II), a young Polish priest who was studying in Rome at the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\", visited Padre Pio, who heard his confession. Austrian Cardinal Alfons Stickler reported that Wojtyła confided to him that during this meeting, Padre Pio told him he would one day ascend to \"the highest post in the church though further confirmation is needed.\" Cardinal Stickler said that Wojtyła believed that the prophecy was fulfilled when he became a cardinal. John Paul's secretary, Stanisław Dziwisz, denies the prediction, while George Weigel's biography \"Witness to Hope\", which contains an account of the same visit, does not mention it.\n\nAccording to oral tradition, Bishop Wojtyła wrote to Padre Pio in 1962 to ask him to pray for Dr. Wanda Poltawska, a friend in Poland who was suffering from cancer. Later, Dr. Poltawska's cancer was found to be in spontaneous remission. Medical professionals were unable to offer an explanation for the phenomenon.\n\nPope John Paul II (pope from 1978 to 2005) started the canonization process of Padre Pio and canonized him in 2002.\n\nPadre Pio became a very well-known priest. Franciscan spirituality is characterized by a life of poverty, love of nature, and giving charity to those in need. Franciscan prayer recognizes God's presence in the wonder of creation. This is seen clearly in St. Francis' Canticle of the Sun. Franciscan spirituality is focused on walking in Christ's footsteps, understanding God by doing what Christ asked, experiencing and sharing God.\n\nLater Padre Pio became a spiritual director. He had five rules for spiritual growth: weekly confession, daily Communion, spiritual reading, meditation, and examination of conscience.\n\nPadre Pio was devoted to rosary meditations and said:\n\n\"The person who meditates and turns his mind to God, who is the mirror of his soul, seeks to know his faults, tries to correct them, moderates his impulses, and puts his conscience in order.\"\nHe compared weekly confession to dusting a room weekly, and recommended the performance of meditation and self-examination twice daily: once in the morning, as preparation to face the day, and once again in the evening, as retrospection. His advice on the practical application of theology he often summed up in his now famous quote, \"Pray, Hope and Don’t Worry\". He directed Christians to recognize God in all things and to desire above all things to do the will of God.\n\nThe novelist Graham Greene had two photos of Padre Pio in his wallet after attending one of his Masses. He said that Padre Pio had “introduced a doubt in my disbelief.”\n\nMany people who heard of him traveled to San Giovanni Rotondo in the south of Italy to meet him and confess to him, ask for help, or have their curiosity satisfied. Padre Pio's mother died at the village around the convent in 1928. Later, in 1938, Padre Pio had his old father Grazio living with him in the village of San Giovanni Rotondo. His brother Michele also moved into the village with their father. Padre Pio's father lived in a little house outside the convent, until his death in 1946.\n\nPadre Pio died in 1968 at the age of 81. His health deteriorated in the 1960s but he continued his spiritual works. On September 21, 1968, the day after the 50th anniversary of his receiving the stigmata, Padre Pio felt great fatigue. The next day, on September 22, 1968, he was supposed to offer a Solemn Mass, but feeling weak, he asked his superior if he might say a Low Mass instead, as he had done daily for years. Due to the large number of pilgrims present for the Mass, Padre Pio's superior decided the Solemn Mass must proceed. Padre Pio carried out his duties but appeared extremely weak and fragile. His voice was weak and, after the Mass had concluded, he nearly collapsed while walking down the altar steps. He needed help from his Capuchin brothers. This was his last celebration of the Mass.\n\nEarly in the morning of September 23, 1968, Padre Pio made his last confession and renewed his Franciscan vows. As was customary, he had his rosary in his hands, though he did not have the strength to say the Hail Marys aloud. Till the end, he repeated the words \"Gesù, Maria\" (Jesus, Mary). At around 2:30 a.m., he said, \"I see two mothers\" (taken to mean his mother and Mary). At 2:30 a.m. he died in his cell in San Giovanni Rotondo with his last breath whispering, \"Maria!\"\n\nHis body was buried on September 26 in a crypt in the Church of Our Lady of Grace. His Requiem Mass was attended by over 100,000 people. He had often said, \"After my death I will do more. My real mission will begin after my death.\" The accounts of those who stayed with Padre Pio till the end state that the stigmata had completely disappeared without a scar. Only a red mark \"as if drawn by a red pencil\" remained on his side but it disappeared.\n\nPadre Pio was said to have had the gift of reading souls, the ability to bilocate, among other supernatural phenomena. He was said to communicate with angels and worked favors and healings before they were requested of him. The reports of supernatural phenomena surrounding Padre Pio attracted fame and legend. The Vatican was initially skeptical.\n\nIn the 1999 book, \"Padre Pio: The Wonder Worker\", a segment by Irish priest Malachy Gerard Carroll describes the story of Gemma de Giorgi, a Sicilian girl whose blindness was believed to have been cured during a visit to Padre Pio. Gemma, who was brought to San Giovanni Rotondo in 1947 by her grandmother, was born without pupils. During her trip to see Padre Pio, the little girl began to see objects, including a steamboat and the sea. Gemma's grandmother did not believe the child had been healed. After Gemma forgot to ask Padre Pio for grace during her confession, her grandmother implored the priest to ask God to restore her sight. Padre Pio told her, \"The child must not weep and neither must you for the child sees and you know she sees.\"\n\nPadre Pio believed the love of God is inseparable from suffering, and that suffering all things for the sake of God is the way for the soul to reach God. He felt that his soul was lost in a chaotic maze, plunged into total desolation, as if he were in the deepest pit of hell. \n\nFather Gabriele Amorth, senior exorcist of Vatican City, stated in an interview that Padre Pio was able to distinguish between real apparitions of Jesus, Mary and the saints and the illusions created by the devil, by carefully analysing the state of his mind and the feelings produced in him during the apparitions. In one of Padre Pio's letters, he states that he remained patient in the midst of his trials because of his firm belief that Jesus, Mary, his guardian angel, St. Joseph, and St. Francis were always with him and helped him \n\nDuring his period of spiritual suffering, his followers believe that Padre Pio was attacked by the devil, both physically and spiritually. His followers also believe that the devil used diabolical tricks in order to increase Padre Pio's torments. These included apparitions as an \"angel of light\" and the alteration or destruction of letters to and from his spiritual directors. Padre Augustine confirmed this when he said:\nNow, twenty-two days have passed since Jesus allowed the devils to vent their anger on me. My Father, my whole body is bruised from the beatings that I have received to the present time by our enemies. Several times, they have even torn off my shirt so that they could strike my exposed flesh.\nPadre Pio reported engaging in physical combat with Satan and his minions, similar to incidents described concerning St. John Vianney, from which he was said to have sustained extensive bruising.\n\nOn the day of Padre Pio's death, mystic and Servant of God Maria Esperanza de Bianchini from Venezuela reported that he appeared to her in a vision and said, \"I have come to say good-bye. My time has come. It is your turn.\" Her husband saw his wife's face transfigured into that of Padre Pio. On the following day, they learned that Padre Pio had died. Witnesses say they later saw Esperanza levitating during Mass and engaging in bilocation. Padre Domenico da Cese, a fellow Capuchin stigmatist, reported that on Sunday, September 22, 1968, he saw Padre Pio kneeling in prayer before the Holy Face of Manoppello, although it was known that Padre Pio had not left his room.\n\nPadre Pio was considered holy even during his lifetime. In 1971, three years after his death, Pope Paul VI said to the superiors of the Capuchin Order about the monk:\n\nIn 1982, the Holy See authorized the archbishop of Manfredonia to open an investigation to determine whether Padre Pio should be considered a saint. The investigation continued for seven years. In 1990 Padre Pio was declared a Servant of God, the first step in the process of canonization. The investigation however did not lead to any public factual clearance by the Church on his previous 'excommunication' or on the allegations that his stigmata were not of a supernatural kind. Moreover, Pio's stigmata were remarkably left out of the obligatory investigations for the canonization process, in order to avoid obstacles prohibiting a successful closure.\n\nBeginning in 1990, the Congregation for the Causes of Saints debated how Padre Pio had lived his life, and in 1997 Pope John Paul II declared him venerable. A discussion of the effects of his life on others followed. Cases were studied such as a reported cure of an Italian woman, Consiglia de Martino, associated with Padre Pio's intercession. In 1999, on the advice of the Congregation, John Paul II declared Padre Pio blessed. A media offensive by the Capuchins was able to realise a broad acceptation of the contested saint in society.\n\nAfter further consideration of Padre Pio's virtues and ability to do good even after his death, including discussion of another healing attributed to his intercession, the pope declared Padre Pio a saint on June 16, 2002. An estimated 300,000 people attended the canonization ceremony.\nOn July 1, 2004, Pope John Paul II dedicated the Sanctuary of Saint Pio of Pietrelcina (sometimes referred as \"Padre Pio Pilgrimage Church\"), built in the village of San Giovanni Rotondo to the memory of Saint Pio of Pietrelcina. A statue of Saint Pio in Messina, Sicily attracted attention in 2002 when it wept tears of blood.\n\nSaint Pio of Pietrelcina is known as the patron saint of civil defense volunteers, after a group of 160 petitioned the Italian Bishops’ conference for this designation. The bishops forwarded the request to the Vatican, which gave its approval to the designation. He is also “less officially” known as the patron saint of stress relief and the “January blues,” after the Catholic Enquiry Office in London proclaimed him as such. They designated the most depressing day of the year, identified as January 22, as Don’t Worry Be Happy Day, in honor of Padre Pio’s famous advice: “Pray, hope, and don’t worry.”\n\nPadre Pio has become one of the world's most popular saints. There are more than 3,000 \"Padre Pio Prayer Groups\" worldwide, with three million members. The very first St. Padre Pio parish http://www.stpp.church/home.html in the world was established June 16, 2002 in Kleinburg, Ontario, Canada. There are parishes in Vineland and Lavallette, New Jersey, and Sydney, Australia, and shrines in Buena, New Jersey, and Santo Tomas, Batangas, Philippines, dedicated to Padre Pio. A 2006 survey by the magazine \"Famiglia Cristiana\" found that more Italian Catholics pray to Padre Pio for intercession than to any other figure. (This prayer, more properly understood as a request that the saint intercede to God, is not to be confused with worship, which the Catholic Church teaches is due only to God.)\n\nIt was announced in 2009 that a renewable energy statue of Padre Pio was to be built on a hill near the town of San Giovanni Rotondo in the south-eastern province of Apulia, Italy, the town where he is commemorated. The project would cost several million pounds, with the money to be raised from the saint's devotees around the world. The statue would be coated in a special photovoltaic paint, enabling it to trap the sun's heat and produce solar energy, making it an \"ecological\" religious icon.\n\nOn March 3, 2008, the body of St. Pio was exhumed from his crypt, forty years after his death, so that his remains could be prepared for display. A church statement described the body as being in \"fair condition\". Archbishop Domenico Umberto D'Ambrosio, Papal legate to the shrine in San Giovanni Rotondo, stated \"the top part of the skull is partly skeletal but the chin is perfect and the rest of the body is well preserved\". Archbishop D’Ambrosio also confirmed in a communiqué that “the stigmata are not visible.” He said that St. Pio's hands \"looked like they had just undergone a manicure\". It was hoped that morticians would be able to restore the face so that it will be recognizable. However, because of its deterioration, his face was covered with a lifelike silicone mask.\n\nCardinal José Saraiva Martins, prefect for the Congregation for the Causes of the Saints, celebrated Mass for 15,000 devotees on April 24 at the Shrine of Holy Mary of Grace, San Giovanni Rotondo, before the body went on display in a crystal, marble, and silver sepulcher in the crypt of the monastery. Padre Pio is wearing his brown Capuchin habit with a white silk stole embroidered with crystals and gold thread. His hands hold a large wooden cross. 800,000 pilgrims worldwide, mostly from Italy, made reservations to view the body up to December 2008, but only 7,200 people a day were able to file past the crystal coffin. Officials extended the display through September, 2009.\n\nSaint Pio's remains were placed in the church of Saint Pio, which is beside San Giovanni Rotondo. In April 2010 they were moved to a special golden \"Cripta\".\n\nThe remains of Saint Pio were brought to the Vatican for veneration during the 2015–2016 Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy. Saint Pio and Saint Leopold Mandic were designated as saint-confessors to inspire people to become reconciled to the Church and to God, by the confession of their sins.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1558917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558917", "title": "Paramahamsa", "text": "Paramahamsa\n\nParamahamsa (परमाहंस), also spelled paramahansa or paramhansa, is a Sanskrit religio-theological title of honor applied to Hindu spiritual teachers who are regarded as having attained enlightenment. The title literally means \"supreme swan,\" and symbolizes spiritual discrimination. The swan is equally at home on land and on water; similarly, the true sage is equally at home in the realms of matter and of spirit. To be in divine ecstasy and simultaneously to be actively wakeful is the \"paramahansa\" state; the 'royal swan' of the soul floats in the cosmic ocean, beholding both its body and the ocean as manifestations of the same Spirit. The word 'Paramahamsa' signifies one who is Awakened in all realms. Paramahansa is the highest level of spiritual development in which a union with ultimate reality has been attained by a sannyasi.\n\n\"Paramahamsa\" is a Sanskrit word translated as 'supreme swan'. The word is compounded of Sanskrit परम \"parama\" meaning 'supreme' or 'transcendent' (from PIE \"per\" meaning 'through', 'across', or 'beyond', cognate with English \"far\") and Sanskrit हंस \"hamsa\" meaning 'swan or wild goose'. The prefix \"parama\" is the same element seen in \"Parameshwara\", a title for God. Early English scholars of Indian language and religion may have mockingly translated \"hamsa\" as 'goose' in particular, because in English folklore a goose (the domesticated type) traditionally denotes foolishness and irresponsibility. But in Hindic tradition, wild geese, including swans, are noted for characteristics of discipline, stamina, grace, and beauty. This is especially said of the bar-headed goose (\"Anser indicus\"), whose migratory route from Central Asia to India and back forces it to fly over the Himalayas twice a year, a feat which makes it one of the highest flying birds in the world. \n\n\"Hamsa\" may be a religious pun or allegory with a philosophical meaning. One such etymology suggests that the words 'aham' and 'sa' are joined to become 'hamsa'; \"aham\" is 'I' or 'me' and \"sa\" is 'he', together meaning 'I am he'. Here, 'I' refers to the \"jivatma\" or \"jivatama\", the living soul, and 'he' the \"paramatma\" or \"paramatama\" or supreme soul (the alternative spellings are due to differing Romanisations of the Sanskrit words). This relationship reflects of Advaita philosophy, which advocates the oneness of \"jivatma\" and \"paramatma\". The word \"aham\" is common to many Eastern religions. From \"aham\" is derived \"ahamkara\" or ego.\n\nThe \"hamsa\" (swan) is the vahana, the mount or vehicle, of the god Brahma. In the Vedas and the Purânas it is a symbol for the soul/Soul. The \"hamsa\" is said to be the only creature that is capable of separating milk from water once they have been mixed; symbolically this is the display of great spiritual discrimination. It is symbolic for a spiritually advanced being who is capable of controlling the breath energy in such a way that he only absorbs pure vibrations from all the different energies the world contains. To the Paramahamsa (the supreme celestial Swan) on the other hand, the whole of creation is God himself, there is nothing else but God alone. This person is a fully realized soul, completely liberated from all bonds with the world, who knows no obligations, no likes or dislikes. He is without any needs because he is completely immersed in God.\n\n\"Paramahamsa\", as a religio/theological title, is applied to an adept class of Hindu renunciates, liberated, realized masters who, having attained the supreme yogic state, or nirvikalpa samādhi, can always distinguish between the Real (\"sa\") from the unreal (\"ham\").\n\nThe \"hamsa\" mantra indicates the sound made by the exhalation (\"ha\") and inhalation (\"sa\") of the breath.\n\nSome followers believe title cannot be assumed by oneself, but must be conferred by a recognized authority, either another individual swami who is himself esteemed as enlightened, or by a committee of spiritual leaders.\n\nParamahaṃsa is also the title of one of the Upanishads.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "396525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396525", "title": "Philokalia", "text": "Philokalia\n\nThe Philokalia ( \"love of the beautiful, the good\", from \"philia\" \"love\" and \"kallos\" \"beauty\") is \"a collection of texts written between the 4th and 15th centuries by spiritual masters\" of the Eastern Orthodox Church mystical hesychast tradition. They were originally written for the guidance and instruction of monks in \"the practice of the contemplative life.\" The collection was compiled in the eighteenth century by Nicodemus the Hagiorite and Macarius of Corinth.\n\nAlthough these works were individually known in the monastic culture of Greek Orthodox Christianity before their inclusion in the \"Philokalia\", their presence in this collection resulted in a much wider readership due to its translation into several languages. The earliest translations included a Church Slavonic language translation of selected texts by Paisius Velichkovsky (\"Dobrotolublye\", \"Добротолю́бїе\") in 1793, a Russian translation by Ignatius Bryanchaninov in 1857, and a five-volume translation into Russian (\"Dobrotolyubie\") by Theophan the Recluse in 1877. There were subsequent Romanian, Italian, French, German, Spanish, Finnish and Arabic translations.\n\nThe book is a \"principal spiritual text\" for all the Eastern Orthodox Churches. The publishers of the current English translation state that \"the \"Philokalia\" has exercised an influence far greater than that of any book other than the Bible in the recent history of the Orthodox Church.\"\n\n\"Philokalia\" (sometimes \"Philocalia\") is also the name given to an anthology of the writings of Origen compiled by Basil of Caesarea and Gregory of Nazianzus. Other works on monastic spirituality have also used the same title over the years.\n\nNikodemos and Makarios were monks at Mt. Athos, a mountainous peninsula in northern Greece, historically considered the geographical center of Orthodox spirituality and home to twenty monasteries. The first edition, in Greek, was published in Venice in 1782, with a second Greek edition published in Athens in 1893. All the original texts were in Greek—two of them were first written in Latin and translated into Greek in the Byzantine era.\n\nPaisius Velichkovsky's translation into Church Slavonic, \"Dobrotolublye\" (published in Moscow in 1793), included selected portions of the \"Philokalia\", and was the version that the pilgrim in \"The Way of a Pilgrim\" carried on his journey. That book about a Russian pilgrim who is seeking advice on interior prayer helped popularize the \"Philokalia\" and its teachings in Russia. Velichkovsky's translation was the first to become widely read by the public, away from the monasteries—helped by the popularity of \"The Way of a Pilgrim\", and the public influence of the \"startsy\" at Optina Monastery known as the Optina Elders. Two Russian language translations appeared in the 19th century, one by Ignatius Brianchaninov (1857), and Theophan the Recluse's \"Dobrotolubiye\" (1877). The latter was published in five volumes, and included texts that were not in the original Greek edition.\n\nVelichkovsky was initially hesitant to share his translation outside of the Optina Monastery walls. He was concerned that people living in the world would not have the adequate supervision and guidance of the \"startsy\" in the monastery, nor would they have the support of the liturgical life of the monks. He was finally persuaded by the Metropolitan of St. Petersburg to publish the book in 1793. Brianchanivov expressed the same concerns in his work, warning his readers that regular practice of the Jesus Prayer, without adequate guidance, could potentially cause spiritual delusion and pride, even among monks. Their concerns were contrary to the original compiler of the \"Philokalia\", Nicodemos, who wrote that the Jesus Prayer could be used to good effect by anyone, whether monastic or layperson. All agreed that the teachings on constant inner prayer should be practiced under the guidance of a spiritual teacher, or \"starets\".\n\nThe first partial English and French translations in the 1950s were an indirect result of the Bolshevik revolution, which brought many Russian intellectuals into Western Europe. T. S. Eliot persuaded his fellow directors of the publishing house Faber and Faber to publish a partial translation into English from the Theophan Russian version, which met with surprising success in 1951. A more complete English translation, from the original Greek, began in 1979 with a collaboration between G. E. H. Palmer, Kallistos Ware, and Philip Sherrard. They released four of the five volumes of the \"Philokalia\" between 1979 and 1995. In 1946, the first installment of a ten volume Romanian translation by Father Dumitru Stăniloae appeared. In addition to the original Greek text, Stăniloae added \"lengthy original footnotes of his own\" as well as substantially expanding the coverage of texts by Maximus the Confessor, Symeon the New Theologian, and Gregory Palamas. This work is 4,650 pages in length. Writings by the Trappist monk Thomas Merton on hesychasm also helped spread the popularity of the \"Philokalia\", along with the indirect influence of J. D. Salinger's \"Franny and Zooey\", which featured \"The Way of a Pilgrim\" as a main plot element.\n\nThe collection's title is The Philokalia of the Niptic Fathers, or more fully \"The Philokalia of the Neptic Saints gathered from our Holy Theophoric Father, through which, by means of the philosophy of ascetic practice and contemplation, the intellect is purified, illumined, and made perfect.\" \"Niptic\" is an adjective derived from the Greek \"Nipsis\" (or \"Nepsis\") referring to contemplative prayer and meaning \"watchfulness\". Watchfulness in this context includes close attention to one's thoughts, intentions, and emotions, with the aim of resisting temptations and vain and egoistic thoughts, and trying to maintain a constant state of remembrance of God. There are similarities between this ancient practice and the concept of mindfulness as practiced in Buddhism and other spiritual traditions. The \"Philokalia\" teachings have also influenced the revival of interior prayer in modern times through the centering prayer practices taught by Thomas Keating and Thomas Merton.\n\n\"Philokalia\" is defined as the \"love of the beautiful, the exalted, the excellent, understood as the transcendent source of life and the revelation of Truth.\" In contemplative prayer the mind becomes absorbed in the awareness of God as a living presence as the source of being of all creatures and sensible forms. According to the authors of the English translation, Kallistos Ware, G. E. H. Palmer, and Philip Sherrard, the writings of the \"Philokalia\" have been chosen above others because they:\n...show the way to awaken and develop attention and consciousness, to attain that state of watchfulness which is the hallmark of sanctity. They describe the conditions most effective for learning what their authors call the art of arts and the science of sciences, a learning which is not a matter of information or agility of mind but of a radical change of will and heart leading man towards the highest possibilities open to him, shaping and nourishing the unseen part of his being, and helping him to spiritual fulfilment and union with God.\"\n\nThe \"Philokalia\" is the foundational text on \"hesychasm\" (\"quietness\"), an inner spiritual tradition with a long history dating back to the Desert Fathers. The practices include contemplative prayer, quiet sitting, and recitation of the Jesus Prayer. While traditionally taught and practiced in monasteries, \"hesychasm\" teachings have spread over the years to include laymen. Nikodemos, in his introduction, described the collected texts as \"a mystical school of inward prayer\" which could be used to cultivate the inner life and to \"attain the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ.\" While the monastic life makes this easier, Nikodemos himself stressed that \"unceasing prayer\" should be practiced by all.\n\nThe hesychasm teachings in the \"Philokalia\" are viewed by Orthodox Christians as inseparable from the sacraments and liturgy of the Orthodox Church, and are given by and for those who are already living within the framework of the Church. A common theme is the need for a spiritual father or guide.\n\n\nThis listing of texts is based on the English translation of four volumes by Bishop Kallistos Ware, G. E. H. Palmer, and Philip Sherrard. The fifth volume has yet to be published in English. Some works in the \"Philokalia\" are also found in the \"Patrologia Graecae\" and \"Patrologia Latina\" of J. P. Migne.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis piece by Anthony was changed to an appendix in the English translation by Palmer, Sherrard, and Ware (1979, p. 327), because of their view that the language and the general idea is not explicitly Christian and may not have been written by Antony.\n\n\n\n\nThis volume has not yet been published in English translation. These are the contents of the modern Greek translation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42682627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42682627", "title": "Principality of Farghana", "text": "Principality of Farghana\n\nThe Principality of Farghana (also spelled \"Ferghana\", \"Fergana\", and \"Fargana\"), was a local Iranian dynasty of Sogdian origin, which ruled the Farghana region from an unknown date to 819. The rulers of the region were known by their titles of “\"ikhshid\"” and “\"dehqan\"”. The capital of the principality was Akhsikath.\n\nThe principality of Farghana was under Western Turk rule until it was destroyed by Tang China in 657 and after that under the Anxi Protectorate. It was invaded by the Umayyad Arab general Qutayba ibn Muslim during the Muslim conquest of Transoxiana. Farghana, along with Khujand, was shortly raided after Qutayba's victory over Gurak. In 715, Qutayba completely subdued Farghana, and made it a vassal state of the Umayyad Caliphate.\n\nDuring the reign of the Umayyad caliph Sulayman ibn Abd al-Malik, the ikhshid of Farghana revolted against Umayyad authority, but was shortly defeated and killed. He was buried in Andijan. After the death of Qutayba, Ferghana was taken back by Chinese general Zhang Xiaosong (張孝嵩) in 715 . In cities such as Panjikant and Pai, the Sogdians revolted; the most dangerous being the rebellion of 720-722 under Divashtich and Karzanj, who gained the support of the ikhshid of Ferghana, known as at-Tar (also spelled Alutar). At-tar promised to give them protection in case their rebellion turned into a failure. While the army of Karzanj was staying at Khujand, at-Tar betrayed him, and told the Umayyad general Sa'id ibn Amr al-Harashi where Karzanj and his army was stationing. Al-Harashi quickly marched towards Khujand, where he defeated the army of Karzanj, brutally massacring over 3,000 Sogdian inhabitants in the city. He then marched towards Zarafshan, where he defeated and captured Divashtich, who was later executed. Sa'id thus managed to restore Umayyad control over Transoxiana, except Ferghana.\n\nIn 723, a Umayyad army under Muslim ibn Sa'id al-Kilabi invaded Ferghana, and devastated the countryside. However, an army under the Turgesh \"khagan\" Suluk came to the rescue for their Ferghanian allies, and won a crushing victory over the Arabs in the so-called \"Day of Thirst\". In 726, Farghana became divided between two ikhshids, one ruling in the north and as a vassal of the Turgesh. In 729, an ikhshid of Farghana aided the Turgesh during the Siege of Kamarja, and two years later the Turgesh was aided by Ferghana during the Battle of the Defile. In 739, a Turk named Arslan Tarkhan, conquered Ferghana. However, at the same time Ferghana was invaded by the Umayyad general Muhammad ibn Khalid Azdi. Nevertheless, the ikhshids of Ferghana are still mentioned in sources. Ferghana was in 740 ravaged by another Umayyad general named Nasr ibn Sayyar. In 750, the Umayyad Caliphate fell, and was replaced by the Abbasid Caliphate. Farghana joined the Chinese side in the battle of Talas in 751. Nevertheless, Farghana remained out of Arab control from 715 until late 700s. In 819, the governor of Khurasan, Ghassan ibn 'Abbad, appointed the Samanid prince Ahmad ibn Asad as the ruler of Farghana, thus marking the end of the ancient dynasty which ruled Farghana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3017385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3017385", "title": "Ramashram Satsang, Mathura", "text": "Ramashram Satsang, Mathura\n\nRamashram Satsang, Mathura (RSM) is a spiritual organization established by Guru Maharaj (Dr. Chaturbhuj Sahay Ji) in the northern Indian town of Mathura.\n\nParamsant Dr. Chaturbhuj Sahay Ji established RSM in the year 1930 in Etah in Uttar Pradesh, India, naming it after his Guru, Lala Ji Maharaj, Paramsant Mahatma Shri Ram Chandra Ji. At the behest of his Guru, he openly laid out the secrets of methods of spiritual evolution kept closely guarded by the Saints since time immemorial. The main methodology is transfer of Soul Power. Breaking away from the centuries-old norm, He openly propagated the teachings of his Guru to all, and these methods and principles are applicable to and adaptable by people of any and all religions. Love is the objective of all Spiritual Methods. In this school 'Love' is mingled in all its methods. The central focus is on the Spiritual Master, who is looked upon as a father/ mother figure by all and who by Soul -Power uplifts the aspirants and makes them experience the higher stages of spirituality without aspirants having to make effort for it on their own. Periodic dosage of this transfer of power brings about an altered state within an aspirant. The mind has to be centered before higher states can be experienced; therefore, this school has evolved its own system of meditation, designed not only to bring the aspirants up to the level of receiving and experiencing the Soul Power (the goal of spiritual evolution and the main objective of every religion) but also to make the higher states flow automatically one after the other and even thereafter to keep the aspirant on track.\n\nThis is probably the only school of its kind, where the method of transfer of Soul Power has evolved to such an extent that power is transferred not only on one to one basis but from one to many. At the tri-monthly meets known as 'Bhandara', organized by this Satsang, thousands of aspirants receive this power at the same time. Overtly, all are seen only to practice meditation, but each one notices and experiences the altered state upon leaving the Bhandara.\n\nThis system of Sadhana/Satsang is a synthesis between action Karma (duty), Upasana (devotion) and Gyan (knowledge). Aspirants are required to keep in touch with the Master and to meet with the Master at the least once in every three months and to do Dhyan (meditate) every morning and evening for 15–20 minutes when not in company of the Master till they achieve the desired goal.\n\nRamashram Satsang Mathura publishes a Monthly Spiritual Magazine in Hindi, called \"Sadhan\"\nAuthentic and Official literature about the teachings and messages of Ramashram Satsang is published by Sadhan Press, Dampier Nagar, Mathura\n\nThe journey began back in around 1873, the year when Param Sant Mahatma Sri Ramchandra Ji Maharaj was born in the north Indian province of Manipuri.\n\n"}
{"id": "10242200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10242200", "title": "Revelation (Latter Day Saints)", "text": "Revelation (Latter Day Saints)\n\nLatter Day Saints teach that the Latter Day Saint movement began with a revelation from God. They also teach that revelation is the foundation of the church established by Jesus Christ and that it remains an essential element of his true church today. Continuous revelation provides individual Latter Day Saints with a \"testimony\", described by Richard Bushman as \"one of the most potent words in the Mormon lexicon.\"\n\nIn response to an inquiry on the beliefs of the church, Joseph Smith wrote what came to be called the Wentworth Letter, the last section of which was canonized as the Articles of Faith. The fifth, sixth, seventh and ninth articles state the essence of Latter Day Saint belief concerning revelation.\n\nLatter Day Saints believe that the Lord ‘will yet reveal many great and important things’ to His church through modern Apostles and Prophets; that all leaders of the church are ‘called of God, by prophecy’; and that each member of the church can receive personal revelation to strengthen their faith and guide them in their own lives.\n\nThe Latter Day Saint concept of revelation includes the belief that revelation from God is available to all those who earnestly seek it with the intent of doing good.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and some other Latter Day Saint denominations claim to be led by revelation from God to a living prophet, who receives God’s word just as Abraham, Moses, Peter, and other ancient prophets and apostles did. It also teaches that everyone is entitled to \"personal\" revelation with respect to his or her stewardship. Thus, parents can receive inspiration from God in raising their families, individuals can receive divine inspiration to help them meet personal challenges, church officers may receive revelation for those whom they serve, and Apostles and Prophets may receive revelation for the entire church. The important consequence of this is that each person may receive confirmation that particular doctrines taught by a prophet are true, as well as gain divine insight in using those truths for their own benefit and eternal progress. In the LDS Church, personal revelation is expected and encouraged, and many converts believe that personal revelation from God was instrumental in their conversion.\n\nJoseph F. Smith, the sixth president and Prophet of LDS Church, summarized the church's belief concerning revelation by saying, \"We believe... in the principle of direct revelation from God to man.\"\n\nHe also more specifically detailed the importance of the principle of modern-day revelation to the church he then led;\nJames E. Talmage, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and noted LDS scholar, attempted to connect this belief with the nature of God and also emphasized the importance of the principle of continuing revelation to his faith:\nLatter Day Saints believe that God answers prayers. Communicating with God is seen by many Latter Day Saints as an important part of developing faith and coming to know God, resulting ultimately in exaltation if the person remains faithful to covenants with Jesus Christ.\n\nLatter Day Saints believe that the need for guidance by Apostolic Revelation in Jesus Christ’s church is as great today as it was when Peter, Paul, and other apostles wrote the letters that eventually became the New Testament.\nJames E. Faust, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, spoke on the need for continual divine guidance of Jesus Christ’s church in both doctrinal and administrative matters:\nLDS Church president Gordon B. Hinckley further explained:\nThe LDS Church believes apostolic revelation to be inspired, but not infallible. One leader wrote, \"We consider God, and him alone, infallible; therefore his revealed word to us cannot be doubted, though we may be in doubt some times about the knowledge which we obtain from human sources, and occasionally be obliged to admit that something which we had considered to be a fact, was really only a theory.\" Leaders are still considered regular people with \"their opinions and prejudices and are left to work out their own problems without inspiration in many instances.\" Brigham Young taught \"the greatest fear I have is that the people of this Church will accept what we say as the will of the Lord without first praying about it and getting the witness within their own hearts that what we say is the word of the Lord.\" Members are taught to rely on the Holy Ghost to judge, and if a revelation is in harmony with the revealed word of God, it should be accepted.\n\nDallin H. Oaks explains: \"Revelations from God . . . are not constant. We believe in continuing revelation, not continuous revelation. We are often left to work out problems without the dictation or specific direction of the Spirit.\" Thus the current prophet can clarify, correct or change any previous teachings.\n\nHowever, once a doctrine has been accepted by the church by \"common consent\", it becomes part of the Standard Works, and then takes precedence over any other revelation. Members of the LDS church only consider themselves bound by doctrine found in the Standard Works. Also, though it is not considered scripture, Latter-day Saints also believe the United States Constitution to be a divinely inspired document.\n\nLatter Day Saints believe that all who serve in any position in the church, from Apostles who lead the entire church to twelve-year-old Deacons who pass the sacrament, must be \"called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority\". This requirement applies to both hierarchical priesthood leadership callings (such as bishop), as well as other priesthood and non-priesthood callings (such as Sunday school instructor, organist, etc.).\n\nHenry B. Eyring, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, gave the following counsel to those called to serve. This counsel illustrates many key LDS beliefs concerning those \"called of God, by prophecy\",\n\nWhile teaching the importance of studying the words of both ancient and modern prophets, Latter Day Saints also emphasize the necessity of personal revelation from God by the power of the Holy Ghost as the only pathway to true knowledge of Jesus Christ:\n\nBoyd K. Packer, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, explained the source and process of personal revelation:\nIn another talk, Packer warned Latter Day Saints against the dangers of over reliance on a rational or theological approach to knowledge of gospel principles:\nPast LDS Church President and Prophet Spencer W. Kimball also emphasized the importance of personal revelation versus the analytical approach in understanding the message of Jesus Christ:\nAlthough Latter Day Saints believe that personal revelation is an essential part of the Plan of Salvation, leaders of the church emphasize that true personal revelation should never contradict official revelation from the leadership of the church. Hartman Rector Jr. taught some basic criteria during a speech at BYU entitled \"How to Know if Revelation Is from the Lord\" that can help members of the church know whether the revelation that someone receives is actually coming from God. The following excerpt is the conclusion of this speech.\n\nJames E. Faust, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, explained the difference between Apostolic and personal revelation, \"The prophets, seers, and revelators have had and still have the responsibility and privilege of receiving and declaring the word of God for the world. Individual members, parents, and leaders have the right to receive revelation for their own responsibility but have no duty nor right to declare the word of God beyond the limits of their own responsibility.\"\n\nThe concept of the \"Spirit of Prophecy\" as found in the LDS church was first described by Joseph Smith, who believed that each individual person was capable of receiving revelation for themselves and those they presided over in their group or family. This enables Latter Day Saints to understand to what extent they are in harmony with the mind and the will of God. The term \"personal revelation\" is also common parlance.\n\nTwo Biblical scriptures that are often used to remind LDS adherents of the importance of seeking personal revelation are Revelation 19:10, which concludes \": worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy\" and Numbers 11:29, which concludes: \"would God that all the Lord's people were prophets, and that the Lord would put his spirit upon them!\" Thus, the spirit of prophecy is understood to be an important gift of the Spirit that is available through adherence to true worship of God, obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel, study of the scriptures, following leaders who have been called by revelation, and understanding the guidance offered by the gift of the Holy Ghost. (See Doctrine and Covenants Sections 8 and 9).\n\nEach Latter-day Saint is expected to use personal revelation to determine how best to apply gospel principles and the commandments in his or her life in a path toward perfection. It is accepted that not all members will agree on how to interpret the same scripture; rather, each person is responsible to determine how it should be interpreted for himself or herself.\n\nFor example, the dietary code called the Word of Wisdom contains the statement \"And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly.\" Church leaders later clarified the words \"hot drinks\" to mean coffee and tea. The Word of Wisdom is interpreted in various ways within the church. Although abstinence from coffee, tea, alcohol and tobacco are considered 'absolutes' by most Latter-day Saints, many will drink decaffeinated coffee or herbal tea. A few LDS will even avoid Coca-Cola, Pepsi, and other drinks containing caffeine, but most LDS see nothing wrong with drinking such beverages. Mormons interpret the other parts of the Word of Wisdom relating to the kinds of foods to be eaten and avoided in various ways. It is considered inappropriate for one person to challenge another person's interpretation, although priesthood leaders such as bishops may determine when an interpretation is outside acceptable bounds. Rationalization of interpretations is tempered by the belief that each person must answer for their choices at the final judgment.\n\nIndividuals are encouraged to rely on personal revelation and to never take leader's statements at face value without investigating for themselves if they be true. Brigham Young said,\nJ. Reuben Clark wrote that there is only one way that Church members can be sure that leaders are speaking for the Lord,\nAn important revelation presented to the LDS Church by the president of the church is the revelation announcing a Perpetual Education Fund for fostering educational opportunities among the poor.\n\nMany Latter-day Saints believe that new scripture will be revealed or discovered and translated involving prophets among the Ten Lost Tribes at some time before or during the Millennium (Book of Mormon, ).\n\n"}
{"id": "39328232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39328232", "title": "Spiritual opportunism", "text": "Spiritual opportunism\n\nSpiritual opportunism refers to the exploitation of spiritual ideas (or of the spirituality of others, or of spiritual authority): for personal gain, partisan interests or selfish motives. Usually the implication is that doing so is unprincipled in some way, although it may cause no harm and involve no abuse. In other words, religion becomes a means to achieve something that is alien to it, or things are projected into religion that do not belong there. \n\nAny human being has at least some kind of spiritual sense, developed through personal reflection or undeveloped but evident from lifestyle and communications, which defines the meta-meanings of human existence, the purpose of life, the meaning of the universe and one's own place in it, and so on. This belief system may, or may not be expressed through the categories and concepts of a religion; it could be only assumed, rather than explicit. Whatever the case, such beliefs can be used in a way that they become a source of profit.\n\nIf a religious authority acquires influence over the \"hearts and minds\" of people who are believers in a religion, and therefore can \"tap into\" the most intimate and deepest-felt concerns of believers, it can also gain immense power from that. This power can be used in a self-interested manner, exploiting opportunities to benefit the position of the religious authority or its supporters in society. This could be considered as inconsistent with the real intentions of the religious belief, or it might show lack of respect for the spiritual autonomy of others. The \"good faith\" of people is then taken advantage of, in ways that involve some kind of deceit, or some dubious, selfish motive. \n\nEven although, in his \"Treatise on Toleration\" (1763), the famous French liberal philosopher Voltaire expressed a distaste for religious fanaticism, he was at the same time convinced that religion could be a useful tool to keep the masses under control. He said famously, \"If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him.\" In his \"Épître à l'Auteur du Livre des Trois Imposteurs\", a criticism of atheism in which he makes this remark, Voltaire opined that faith in God is a \"sublime system\" that is \"necessary to man\": it is, \"...the sacred tie that binds society.\" Similar ideas have been expressed by numerous political leaders, business leaders, and intellectuals for centuries, both right-wing and left-wing. In their utopias of social engineering, early socialistic thinkers such as Auguste Comte (\"Treatise on Sociology Instituting the Religion of Humanity\" 1851-54) and Henri de Saint-Simon (\"New Christianity\" 1825) envisaged a new secular (or \"scientific\") belief-system, analogous to a religion, which would unite the people humanely, and ensure social cohesion. This idea is not as unrealistic as it sounds, but it could be interpreted as an opportunist use of people's faith for political purposes. \n\nPoliticians around the world recognize the power of religion, and therefore they usually try to keep on the good side of religious authorities and believers. They are very aware, that religion can be not just a force for social stability, but can also be the cause of enormous animosity among the peoples, if spiritual sensitivities are offended. For example, when in February 2012 protests broke out in various parts of Afghanistan over the improper disposal of Korans at the US military Bagram Air Base, the US government apologized officially (see 2012 Afghanistan Quran burning protests). Some religious wars and crusades have lasted a very long time, being pursued quite relentlessly - regardless of the number of casualties, and regardless of who happened to be winning. It creates plenty potential to exploit religious likes and dislikes opportunistically, to advance political, social or business interests.\n\nThe term spiritual opportunism is also used in the sense of casting around for suitable spiritual beliefs borrowed and cobbled together in some way to justify, condemn or \"make sense of\" particular ways of behaving, usually with some partisan or ulterior motive. This may not be abusive, but it often gives rise to criticisms or accusations that the given spiritual beliefs:\n\n\nSupporters of traditional religions such as Christianity, Islam, Hinduism or Buddhism sometimes complain that people (such as New Age enthusiasts) seek out spiritual beliefs \"that serve only themselves\", as a form of \"spiritual opportunism\". Such complaints are often highly controversial, because people are considered to have the right to their own spiritual beliefs (they may not have that right, to the extent that they are socially excluded unless they profess certain spiritual beliefs, but they may only subscribe \"formally\" or \"outwardly\" to them). \n\nBecause spiritual beliefs are a highly personal matter in the first instance and concern personal meanings, they are often difficult to criticize because \"they just are what they are\". As they concern highly abstract, metaphysical principles, it is difficult to prove their inconsistency, even using the criterion of whether people \"act according to their beliefs\". People can always argue that the personal meaning they attach to something or the personal associations they make, \"cannot\" be adequately expressed in the language of others. If accusations of spiritual opportunism are made, therefore, evidential proof depends greatly on what people are willing to reveal (or \"confess\") about themselves in what they say and do.\n\nSpiritual opportunism sometimes refers also to the practice of proselytizing one's spiritual beliefs when any opportunity to do so arises, for the purpose of winning over, or persuading others, about the superiority of these beliefs. In this context, the spiritual opportunist may engage in various actions, themselves not directly related to the spiritual beliefs, with the specific aim of convincing others of the superiority of his own belief system – it may effectively amount to \"buying their support\".\n"}
{"id": "1462051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1462051", "title": "Stoa Poikile", "text": "Stoa Poikile\n\nThe Stoa Poikile (Ancient Greek: ἡ ποικίλη στοά) or Painted Porch, originally called the Porch of Peisianax (Ancient Greek: ἡ Πεισιανάκτειος στοά), was erected during the 5th century BC and was located on the north side of the Ancient Agora of Athens. The Stoa Poikile was one of the most famous sites in ancient Athens, owing its fame to the paintings and loot from wars displayed in it. The Stoa was the location from which Zeno of Citium taught Stoicism. The philosophical school of Stoicism takes its name from having first been expounded here, and was derived from the Greek word \"stoa\". Zeno taught and lectured to his followers from this porch. Excavations carried out by the American School of Classical Studies at Athens over the past two decades have revealed much of the foundations and some lower elements of the stoa on the north side of the Athenian Agora; it had a Doric columnar facade and an Ionic interior colonnade.\n\nThe Stoa Poikile was decorated by fresco painter and sculptor Micon of Athens in collaboration with Polygnotos of Thasos; both artists worked around the mid-5th century BC. The paintings were most probably hung on the inner wall of the stoa. In the time of Pausanias (2nd century AD), the paintings in the Stoa included:\n\nThere is a contrast between the mythical and historical events portrayed: depictions of Theseus' victory over the Amazonians and the Fall of Troy are juxtaposed sharply with the portrayal of the historic Battle of Oenoe (conjectured to have occurred in the pentecontaetia at Oenoe, Attica on the Thriasian Plain near Eleutherae), the first important Athenian victory over Sparta, and the Battle of Marathon. The Battle of Marathon features most predominantly and as such, displays the confidence and identity of the Athenians in the wake of the Persian Wars, particularly when compared to the two great mythical victories identified above.\n\nThe Stoa Poikile stood in good repair for over six centuries, possibly gaining additional artwork over the centuries. It suffered when Athens was sacked in 267 AD by Herulians, although only easily looted items were taken at that time. The paintings were removed by a Roman governor shortly before 396 AD.<ref name=\"Synesius 54|url=http://www.livius.org/su-sz/synesius/synesius_letter_054.html|author=Synesius|year=396 CE\">Synesius, Letter 54</ref> The Stoa itself probably existed for another 50–100 years until it was demolished to gain building material for a city wall.\n\n"}
{"id": "26835057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26835057", "title": "Studies in World Christianity", "text": "Studies in World Christianity\n\nStudies in World Christianity is a peer-reviewed academic journal which examines the development of Christianity worldwide – known broadly as World Christianity. Its primary interests are in the rich diversity of Christianity in Africa, Asia, Latin America, Oceania, and eastern Europe, as well as diasporic forms of non-Western Christianity emerging in contexts such as Western Europe and North America. Articles in the journal engage a variety of academic disciplines – historical, theological, and social scientific.\n\nThe journal is published three times a year in April, August and December by Edinburgh University Press. It is associated with the Centre for the Study of World Christianity, formerly the Centre for the Study of Non-Western Christianity, in the School of Divinity at the University of Edinburgh. The journal was founded by Andrew F. Walls in April 1995 as \"Studies in World Christianity: The Edinburgh Review of Theology and Religion\". The journal is currently edited by Brian Stanley.\n\n"}
{"id": "40026451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40026451", "title": "Tepeilhuitl", "text": "Tepeilhuitl\n\nTepeilhuitl is the name of the thirteenth month of the Aztec calendar. It is also a festival in the Aztec religion dedicated to Popocatepetl, Iztaccihuatl and Tlaloc. It is called the festival or feast of the Mountains.\n"}
{"id": "52264296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52264296", "title": "Thathanabaing of Burma", "text": "Thathanabaing of Burma\n\nThe Thathanabaing of Burma (, also spelt Thathanapaing) served as the head of the Buddhist Sangha (order of monks) in pre-colonial Burma, until its abolishment in 1938 by the British authorities in colonial Burma. The Thathanapaing was responsible for managing the monastic hierarchy and education at monasteries. The Thathanabaing resided in a royal monastery near the kingdom's capital. However, appointees were usually commoners born in the villages, with no blood relationship with the royal house. Their appointments were made on the basis of their mastery of Buddhist knowledge and literature.\n\n\"Thathanabaing\", literally 'Keeper of the Sāsana', is the native Burmese rendition of Sangharaja, or formally \"Mahasangharaja\" (), which is typically rendered into English as 'Primate', 'Archbishop' or 'Supreme Patriarch.' The term \"Sangharaja\" was popularly used from the 1300s to 1400s, but lost currency in subsequent centuries. By the Konbaung dynasty, Thathanabaing and Thathanapyu (သာသနာပြု) were frequently used.\n\nAccording to Burmese chronicles, the office of the Thathanabaing dates to the reign of Swa Saw Ke (1367-1400). British historians recognize a lineage of primates during the Pagan Kingdom, beginning with the monk Shin Arahan. \n\nThe office, in its last incarnation, was established by King Bodawpaya in 1784, after the constitution of the Sudhamma Council, a council of four elder monks (\"thera\"), of which the Thathanabaing was its head. Subsequent monarchs expanded the Council, which varied from 8 to 12 members called \"sadaw\". Council members were appointed by the king and styled \"Dazeitya Sayadaw\" (, 'Teachers Possessing the Seal').\n\nThe Thathanabaing was appointed by the king and granted supreme authority with regard to religious doctrine and ecclesiastical administration. The Thathanapaing was responsible for the kingdom's religious affairs, including appointment of monastery abbots, monk orders according to the Vinaya, management of breaches of discipline, preparation of an annual report of the order, and administration of Pali examinations.\n\nThe Thathanabaing was charged with managing the functions of two government officials, the \"Mahadan Wun\" (, Ecclesiastical Censor), who oversaw the king's charitable functions, ensured monk compliance with the Vinaya, and submitted registers of all active novices and monks, and the \"Wutmye Wun\" (), who managed the \"wuttukan\"-designated religious properties (), including donated land and pagodas. The Burmese kingdom was divided into ecclesiastical jurisdictions, each of which was overseen by a \"gaing-gyok\". Underneath each \"gaing-gyok\" was a number of \"gaing-ok\", who were in turn assisted by a number of \"gaing-dauk\". Ecclesiastical disputes were settled by the \"gaing-gyok\" and decisions for appeal were made by the Sudhamma Council.\n\nIn 1895, soon after the abdication of the country's last king, Thibaw Min, the Taungdaw Sayadaw, then the Thathanapaing of Burma, died. A subsequent election elected the Pakhan Sayadaw as Thathanabaing-elect, although the British refused to acknowledge or recognize his title.\n\nIn 1903, the lieutenant-governor of British Burma, Hugh Shakespear Barnes, reinstated the title by \"sanad\" charter, giving the Thathanapaing nominal authority over internal administration of the Sangha in Upper Burma and over Buddhist ecclesiastical law. (Lower Burma, which had been annexed in 1852, remained without a religious head.) The Taunggwin Sayadaw was appointed, but the position was abolished after his death and no successor was ever appointed.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39381211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39381211", "title": "The 52 Hukams of Guru Gobind Singh", "text": "The 52 Hukams of Guru Gobind Singh\n\nThe 52 Hukams are a set of instruction in Sikhism set by Guru Gobind Singh in Nanded, Maharashtra, India in 1708. These edicts sum up the ideal way of life of the Khalsa and serve as a code of conduct for the Khalsa Panth. Members of the Khalsa (baptized Sikhs) aim to follow all the 52 edicts though the authenticity and origin of Hukams can be questioned and they seem to be made in more modern times as the style of Punjab is quite modern but many of them come from older writings such as Bhai Nand Lal's Tankanama.\n\n"}
{"id": "3267151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3267151", "title": "Thiru Eadu Vasippu", "text": "Thiru Eadu Vasippu\n\nThiru Eadu Vasippu is the festival celebrated in the worship centers of Ayyavazhi. It is celebrated for three, five, seven, ten or seventeen days annually. During these days the holy scripture of Ayyavazhi, the Akilattirattu Ammanai is sung. In Swamithoppepathi the headquarters of Ayyavazhi, it starts on the third Friday in the Tamil month of Kathikai (falls approximately in the first week of December) and continues for seventeen days and ends on the first Sunday of the Tamil month of Margazhi. \n"}
{"id": "1875028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875028", "title": "Tubten Kunga Center", "text": "Tubten Kunga Center\n\nThubten Kunga Ling Center (TKC), is a Buddhist Center in Deerfield Beach, Florida. TKC follows the Gelugpa tradition of Tibetan Buddhism, which is the lineage of the Dalai Lama. The center offers classes on meditation and Buddhist philosophy. The resident teacher is Venerable Lhundub Tendron. \n\nTubten Kunga Center is located at 201 SE 15th Terrace, Suite 206, Deerfield Beach, Florida 33441\n\nTubten Kunga Center was founded in 1994 by Jacqueline Keeley. TKC then became part of the Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition, the international network of Tibetan Buddhist centers founded by the Lama Thubten Yeshe and Lama Thubten Zopa Rinpoche.\n\nOur resident teacher, Venerable Tendron, comes to us from the Kadampa Center in Raleigh, NC, and the Chenrezig Nuns Community in Australia. Following Lama Zopa Rinpoche's advice she received ordination from Geshe Lhundub Sopa in 2002 at Deer Park in Madison.Following ordination she moved to CNC to begin her life as a nun and her in-depth studies of the Dharma. After completing the Basic Program in 2007 and becoming an FPMT registered teacher, she returned to Kadampa Center to assist with teaching and coordinate the spiritual program. When Chenrezig Institute offered the Master's program on the Middle Way, she hurried back to CNC to deepen her understanding. In 2013, she made a side trip to Taiwan during which she received full ordination. Most recently she spent 2 years caring for her father before his death in 2015. She brings to her teaching practical experience from trying to implement the teachings within her very American mind and the hectic atmosphere of our Western culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "22379437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22379437", "title": "Unclean spirit", "text": "Unclean spirit\n\nIn English translations of the Bible, unclean spirit is a common rendering of Greek pneuma akatharton (πνεῦμα ἀκάθαρτον; plural \"pneumata akatharta\" (πνεύματα ἀκάθαρτα)), which in its single occurrence in the Septuagint translates Hebrew \"\" ().\n\nThe Greek term appears 21 times in the New Testament in the context of demonic possession. It is also translated into English as spirit of impurity or more loosely as \"evil spirit.\" The Latin equivalent is spiritus immundus.\n\nThe association of physical and spiritual cleanliness is, if not universal, widespread and continues into the 21st century: \"To be virtuous is to be physically clean and free from the impurity that is sin,\" notes an article in \"Scientific American\" published 10 March 2009. Some scholarship seeks to differentiate between \"unclean spirit\" and \"evil spirit\" (\"pneuma ponêron\") or \"demon\" (\"daimonion\").\n\nIn the Christian scriptures, the word \"pneuma\" (plural \"pneumata\") is used variously for the human soul, angelic or demonic spirits, and the Holy Spirit, depending on context or with a grammatical modifier. New Testament usage of the words \"pneuma\" and \"daimonion\" in relation to demons follows that of later Judaism; the two words are to be distinguished from \"daimon\", which appears only once (at ) and in classical antiquity has a neutral meaning of \"spirit\" or \"god, demigod.\" For those who practiced the traditional religions of antiquity, possession by a \"pneuma\" could be a desired state of visionary trance.\n\nIn the New Testament, the Greek modifier \"akatharton\", although sometimes translated in context as \"evil,\" means more precisely \"impure, not purified,\" and reflects a concern for ritual purification shared with or derived from Judaism, though reinterpreted. In early Christianity, the catechumen was routinely prepared for baptism by exorcism even when demonic possession was not suspected; in the case of adult converts, the \"unclean spirits\" to be driven away might be identified with the gods of other religions.\n\nThe practice of insufflation and exsufflation, or the use of released breath in ritual, depends on conceptualizing a spiritual entity as air in motion, \"invisible yet active\": both Greek \"pneuma\" and Latin \"spiritus\" had an original meaning of \"breath, mobile air.\"\n\nReferences to a \"spirit of impurity\" or an \"evil spirit\" (\"ruaḥ tum'ah\") are found in the Hebrew Bible, in Rabbinic literature, and in Pseudepigrapha. It can be difficult to distinguish between a demon and an unclean or evil spirit in Judaic theology or contemporary scholarship; both entities like to inhabit wild or desolate places. Commonly the unclean spirit refers to Dybbuks, spirits of deceased persons who were not laid to rest and thus became demons. Other demonic entities are \"shedim\", which appears only twice in the Tanakh; originally a loan-word from Akkadian for a protective, benevolent spirit (\"sedu\"), but from Jewish perspective were foreign gods and according to established Jewish lore own beings, created by Jahwe.\n\nThe \"se’irim\" or \"śa‘ir\" are goat-demons or \"hairy demons\" (sometimes translated as \"satyrs\") associated with other harmful supernatural beings and with ruins, i.e., human structures that threaten to revert to the wild. The demonic figure Azazel, depicted with goat-like features and in one instance as an unclean bird, is consigned to desert places as impure. The Babylonian Talmud says that a person who wanted to attract an impure spirit might fast and spend the night in a cemetery; in the traditional religions of the Near East and Europe, one ritual mode for seeking a divinely inspired revelation or prophecy required incubation at the tomb of an ancestor or hero. A cemetery, already a locus of \"unclean\" spirits or a multiplicity of gods, was considered an appropriate dump when biblical leaders destroy sacred objects of other religions or statues representing the gods. \"To pneuma to akatharton\" appears in the Septuagint at , where \"pseudoprophetai\" (\"false prophets\") speak in the name of Yahweh but are possessed by an unclean spirit. This occurrence of \"unclean spirit\" is unique in the Tanakh; the Hebrew is \"rûah hattum’â\".\n\nThe syncretic magical practice of late antiquity drew on Hebraic elements, and spells from the Greek Magical Papyri evoke and attempt to command Jewish angels, demons, and other beings regarded as spiritually powerful. At one point, a compiler of the magical text emphasizes the Jewish aspect of purity, insisting that \"this spell is Hebraic and is preserved among pure men\", advising that the practitioner should keep himself pure and refrain from eating pork. The spell concludes with a protracted insufflation. A tradition of Solomonic exorcism continued into medieval Europe; an example is recorded by Gregory the Thaumaturge: \"I adjure you all unclean spirits by Elohim, Adonai, Sabaoth, to come out and depart from the servant of God.\"\n\nExorcism is the most thoroughly attested Jewish magical practice of the Second Temple period. The exorcistic technique of fumigation by incense depends on the aerial conception of the unclean spirit: the occupation of air by odor or smoke (i.e., airborne particulate matter) was supposed to drive off or displace an unclean spirit. Since either body or soul could be unclean, it can be difficult to distinguish exorcism from traditional magico-medical practice in which a personified illness is adjured to depart from the patient's body (for instance, \"Flee, Fever!\") by means of a charm, spoken or inscribed on an amulet or other ritual object. In some rabbinic literature, demons are viewed as inflicting evil on humans in part through illness and disease, though Mishnah and Tannaitic scholars in Palestine did not view demons as the cause of illness.\n\nThe exorcism of demons and unclean spirits is one of the major categories of miracles attributed to Jesus. In the Greek New Testament, 20 occurrences of \"pneuma akatharton\" (singular and plural) are found in the Synoptic Gospels, Acts of the Apostles, and the Book of Revelation. The phrase may be used instead of \"daimonion\" (50 occurrences) or a verbal form of \"daimonizesthai\", \"to be possessed by a demon\" or \"to be or act as a demoniac,\" as indicated by usage in parallel versions of the same story. Throughout The Gospel of Mark, the terms \"pneuma\" (with a pejorative modifier) and \"daimonion\" seem to be equivalent.\n\nIn the narratives pertaining to the ministry of Jesus, temptation to sin is not the primary role played by demons, but rather the causing of disease, disability, mental illness, and antisocial behavior; they defile and compel their human hosts to suffer both physically and spiritually. Although healing and exorcism are distinguished, they often appear in close association, and some afflictions are caused by demonic possession: the inability to speak at , blindess at , deafness at , epilepsy at , and fever and other diseases at and . Mental illness, however, was the most common result.\n\nThe exorcism of an unclean spirit was the first act of Jesus's public ministry:\n\nAlthough \"clean\" and \"unclean\" were categories that served as markers of identity for Jews, distinguishing them from other nations and expressing Israel's special \"vocation to holiness,\" Jesus dismissed Jewish purity laws and in told his disciples they could violate them. He touched those who were in ritual terms \"unclean,\" including lepers, and healed them.\n\nJesus is said to have directly granted his 12 disciples the power to cast out unclean spirits and to heal. At , John the Apostle reports that he and his fellow disciples have asked a man to stop casting out demons in the name of Jesus \"because he isn't one of us,\" but Jesus replies that the man should be allowed to continue, since \"anyone who is not against you is for you.\" Elsewhere, Jesus appoints 72 missionaries who also have the power to cast out demons.\n\nThe attribution of animal-like qualities to demons continues from the Jewish tradition; like demons, animals may be classified as \"unclean.\" describes \"three unclean spirits like frogs\" (\"pneumata tria akatharta hôs batrachoi\"); frogs are unclean as animals for food in the Jewish dietary code. The association of unclean spirits with liminal areas such as ruins, cemeteries, and deserts also continues from Judaic belief; speaks of the future ruin of Babylon as \"a dwelling place of every unclean spirit and a haunt of every unclean and hateful bird.\"\n\nBoth animalism and transitional, liminal sites (marked in bold following) are involved in perhaps the most famous manifestation of an unclean spirit in the New Testament, the Gerasene demon whose name is Legion:\n\nThe pig is a suitable recipient because it is an unclean animal. \"It was certainly not very kind to the pigs,\" the philosopher Bertrand Russell remarked, \"to put the devils into them and make them rush down the hill to the sea.\" The need for the demonic \"pneuma\" to transmigrate into another body is expressed also at , where desert is a haunt for the restless spirit:\n\nThe phrase \"pneuma poneron\" (πνεῦμα πονηρόν, \"evil spirit\") is used several times in the Septuagint, the New Testament and also in patristic texts as an alternative to \"pneuma akatharton\".\n\nThe divinatory trance of the Pythia — the female oracle of Apollo at Delphi — is attributed by the 4th-century patristic authority John Chrysostom to a \"pneuma poneron\":\n\nChrysostom uses the phrase \"pneuma poneron\" frequently in his writings; it is typically translated \"evil spirit.\" The nature of the vapors that inspired the Pythia has been the subject of much debate; see Science and the Pythia. For the Greeks, the Pythia was characterized by sexual purity; her virginity is asserted in some sources, but in others she is said only to have dressed as a virgin and to have lived chastely, and was either an old woman or a married woman who gave up her family and carnal relations to serve the god. A spell invoking Apollo in the Greek Magical Papyri requires ritual purification in the form of dietary restrictions and sexual abstinence; the spell implies that a sexual union with the god will result. The vapors said to arise from the grotto at Delphi were a \"pneuma enthousiastikon\", \"inspiring exhalation,\" according to Plutarch. Although the vaginal reception of the \"pneuma\" may strike the 21st-century reader as strange, fumigation was a not uncommon gynecological regimen throughout the Hippocratic Corpus and was employed as early as 1900–1500 BC in ancient Egyptian medicine. Gynecological fumigation was also a technique of traditional Jewish medicine. The intertwining of the medical and divinatory arts in Apollonian religion was characterized as demonic by Christian writers. As a form of ritual purification, fumigation was intended to enhance the Pythia's receptivity to divine communication; to the men of the Church, the open vagina that served no reproductive purpose was an uncontrolled form of sexuality that invited demonic influence, necessarily rendering the Pythia's prophecies false.\n\nThe phrase \"pneuma pythona'.' (or \"puthona\") means \"Pythonian spirit\" or \"divinatory spirit,\" and occurs only once in the New Testament. In , after Paul and Silas visit a woman of Thyatira, they are greeted on their way to synagogue by a \"working girl\" (\"paidiskê\"), a slave who has earned a reputation as a gifted diviner; she is said to have a \"pneuma pythona\", not \"akatharton\" or \"poneron\", though the spirit is presumed to be evil. Through her employment she earns significant income for her masters. The adjective \"pythona\" indicates a connection to the cult of Apollo, regarded as the greatest of the Greek oracular gods; she is nevertheless inspired to acknowledge out loud that the two missionaries of the \"most high god\" (\"theos hypsistos\"; see also Hypsistarians) know the way to salvation. For several days, she repeatedly voices this praise of Christianity. Although it is unclear why a Christian would dispute the truth of the \"paidiskê\" 's message, and although Jesus himself had said \"anyone who is not against you is for you\" (see above and ), Paul eventually grows annoyed and commands the \"pneuma\" to leave her.\n\nThis encounter differs from other exorcisms in the New Testament. Unlike Jesus, who usually heals at first contact, Paul drives away the spirit only after several days. The girl is depicted as neither physically tormented nor insane. A spell from the Greek Magical Papyri shows that the possessing \"pneuma\" could be welcomed as a giver of vision:\nPaul saw the competing gods of the Greeks as demons. There is no crowd to witness Paul's miracle and proclaim the deed, but later the masters of the \"paidiskê\" haul Paul and Silas into court for depriving them of a profitable business.\n\nThe message itself is composed of two patterns characteristic of Hellenistic oracle: a recognition (\"These men are … \"), and a commendation of their trustworthiness. The only divinely inspired speech by a woman recorded in the Acts is that of the \"paidiskê\", but she is characterized as mantic rather than prophetic. Although both are forms of divination, Plato had distinguished the two: the \"mantis\" became the mouthpiece of the god through possession, but the \"prophecy of interpretation\" required specialized knowledge of how to read signs and omens and was considered a rational process. The '\"prophet\" (προφήτης), usually male, could interpret the divinely inspired speech of a mantic.\nPlutarch gives \"Pythones\" as a synonym for \"engastrimythoi\" (\"belly-talkers\" or \"ventriloquists\"), a suspect type of mantic who employed trickery in projecting a voice, sometimes through a device such as a mechanical snake. The snake was probably the chosen medium because of its association in myth with Delphi, where Apollo killed the serpent (the Python) to establish his own oracle there. Plutarch and other ancient authors scoff at the notion that the god himself enters the body of a paid mantic for use as a mouthpiece. The early Church fathers, however, attributed the behavior of \"engastrimythoi\" to demonic possession. Like Chrysostom, the early Christian theologian Origen finds the Pythia's receptive vagina disturbing and uses the gender of Apollo's oracle as a way to disparage the Delphic religion, saying that if Apollo were a true god, he would have chosen a male prophet:\n\nThe sexual purity of a male prophet is not at issue, but sexual activity renders a woman unfit. The implication of sexual union between the god and a mortal woman is again viewed as a dangerous deception.\n\nIn one of his epistles to Timothy, Paul defines apostates as those who are drawn to \"deceiving\" or \"seductive\" spirits (\"pneumasin planois\") and demonic teachings (\"didaskaliais daimoniôn\"). refers to: \"to pneuma tês planês\", \"the spirit of error.\"\n\nThese \"pneumata plana\" are also found frequently in the apocryphal \"Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs\", where they threaten to lead astray the Israelites into varieties of immorality. The \"seven spirits of deceit\" are \"porneia\" (sexual sins), gluttony, anger, hypocrisy, arrogance, lying, and injustice; \"besides all these, the spirit of sleep, the eighth spirit, is conjoined with error and fantasy.\"\n\nThe phrase \"pneuma astheneias\", \"spirit of infirmity\" or \"spirit of weakness,\" is unique in the New Testament to the Gospel of Luke, as is the story in which it appears:\n\nLuke is the gospel writer who was a physician, and while his profession may have motivated his interest, nothing suggests a medical diagnosis. \"Asthenia\" throughout the New Testament means \"weakness\" or \"powerlessness\" of any kind, including sickness. Some have seen the affliction as ankylosing spondylitis, but an alternative interpretation is that hard labor over the years had bent the woman's back. The incident has been examined at length from the perspective of feminist theology by Francis Taylor Gench, who views it as both healing and liberating; Jesus goes on to say that the woman has been freed from a kind of bondage to Satan. The breaking of bonds or chains is often associated with freedom from an unclean spirit; in the case of the Gerasene demon (above), the demoniac had the physical power to break chains as a result of possession.\n\nThe \"pneuma alalon\" is a speechless spirit who renders the possessed mute (Greek \"alalon,\" \"without speech\"). It thus differs from most possessing demons, who are given to taunts and mockery (\"diabolos\", the origin of both \"diabolic\" and \"Devil,\" means \"slanderer\" in Greek). relates that a boy is brought to Jesus for healing because he cannot speak; verse 25 adds that he cannot hear. This demonic possession manifests itself through symptoms that resemble epilepsy, as is suggested also by , who uses a form of the colloquial verb \"seleniazetai\" (\"moonstruck\") for the condition. Although traditionally epilepsy was regarded as \"the sacred disease,\" Jews and Christians attributed the affliction to a demon. The Babylonian Talmud specifies that a child's epilepsy was caused by \"the demon of the privy,\" which attached to the father when he had sex too soon after relieving himself; that is, he was impure:\n\nBefore Jesus, exorcism had been conducted by a trained practitioner who offered a diagnosis and administered a ritual usually employing spoken formularies, amulets or other objects, or compounds of substances resembling pharmacological recipes of the time. Jesus's approach seemed radical because it depended on spiritual authority alone. Jesus casts out the \"pneuma alalon\" in front of a crowd who exclaim \"Nothing like this has ever happened in Israel!\" The Pharisees, also witnesses, counter that \"the leader of the demons gives him power to force out demons.\" This accusation leads to the \"Beelzebub controversy.\" warns that attributing the power of the Holy Spirit to possession by an \"unclean spirit\" is a sin that cannot be forgiven. The theological concept is difficult and subject to varying interpretations.\n\nIn , Jesus returns home from performing miracles, but a crowd gathers: \"There were so many people that Jesus and his followers could not eat. When his family heard this, they went to get him because they thought he was out of his mind. But the teachers of the law from Jerusalem were saying, 'Beelzebul is living inside him! He uses his power from the ruler of demons to force demons out of people'.\" In his response to this accusation, Jesus says that speaking out against the Holy Spirit is an unforgivable sin: \"Jesus said this because the people were saying that he had an evil spirit in him.\" clarifies that \"if you speak against the Son of Man, you can be forgiven, but if you speak against the Holy Spirit, you cannot be forgiven.\"\n\nIn the period of post-Apostolic Christianity, baptism and the Eucharist required the prior riddance of both unclean spirits and illness. Because the possessing demon was conceptualized as a \"pneuma\" or \"spiritus\", each of which derives from a root meaning \"breath,\" one term for its expulsion was exsufflation, or a \"blowing out.\"\n\nExorcistic texts with Christian content have been found in papyri along with syncretic magic spells; in one Greek example of a fragmentary leaf from a codex, an exorcism that alludes to the birth of Jesus and his miracles appears along with a spell for silencing opponents, an invocation of the Serpent, a spell against a thief, a spell to achieve an erection, a \"sacred stele,\" and a series of magical letters (χαρακτῆρες). The exorcism is distinguished from other early Christian magic charms that quote Bible verses and Psalms by its use of liturgical antiphonies and references to Christian creed.\n\nThe unclean spirit associated with a particular possession, or feared possession, might be identified as an individual and named. Gyllou, a type of reproductive demon that appears on Aramaic amulets in late antiquity, is described in a Greek text as \"abominable and unclean\" (μιαρὰ καὶ ἀκάθαρτος, \"miara kai akathartos\"), and is the object of a prayer to the Virgin Mary asking for protection.\n\nIn his \"Decretum\", Burchard of Worms asserts that \"we know that unclean spirits \"(spiritus immundi)\" who fell from the heavens wander about between the sky and earth,\" drawing on the view expressed in the \"Moralia in Job\" of Gregory I. In his penitential, Burchard says that some people wait until cock's crow — that is, dawn — to go outdoors because they feared \"spiritus immundi\". The fear is not treated as groundless; rather, Burchard recommends Christ and the sign of the cross as protection, rather than reliance on the cock's crow. The exact nature of these \"immundi\" is unclear: they may have been demons, woodland beings such as imps, or ghosts of the unhallowed dead.\n\n\"Spiritus immundus\" is the term corresponding to \"pneuma akatharton\" to address the demon in Latin exorcisms; see \"Of Exorcisms and Certain Supplications\" for text from a modern solemn exorcism adjuring the \"unclean spirit\" to depart a possessed person. In Celtic Rite, the unclean spirit is evoked and exorcized \"per deum patrem omnipotentem\", \"by God, All-powerful Father\"; the same phrase is used in both Gallican (\"exorcidio te, spiritus immunde\") and Milanese exorcism. The Milanese rite prescribes exsufflation: \"Exsufflat in faciem ejus in similitudinem crucis dum dicit\" (\"Breathe out onto [the subject's] face in the likeness of the cross while speaking\").\n\nSuch exorcisms are performed rarely by the 21st-century Western church; the more common exorcism involves the ritual preparation of holy water (\"aquae\"). The 9th-century Stowe Missal preserves an early Celtic formula as \"procul ergo hinc, iubente te, domine, omnis spiritus immundus abscedat\" (\"Therefore at your bidding, Lord, let every unclean spirit depart far from here\"). In a Latin version of \"The Blessing of the Waters on the Eve of Epiphany\" performed in Rome and recorded at the turn of the 19th–20th centuries, the unclean spirit is commanded \"per Deum vivum\" (\"by the Living God\"). The modern Latin rite to exorcize holy water banishes any \"pestilent spirit\" (\"spiritus pestilens\") or \"corrupting atmosphere\" (\"corrumpens aura\"); see Rituals and uses of holy water.\n\n"}
{"id": "2098980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2098980", "title": "Vipassana movement", "text": "Vipassana movement\n\nThe Vipassanā movement, also called the Insight Meditation Movement and American vipassana movement, refers to a branch of modern Burmese Theravāda Buddhism which gained widespread popularity since the 1950s, and to its western derivatives which were popularised since the 1970s, and gave rise to the mindfulness movement.\n\nThe Burmese vipassana movement has its roots in the 19th century, when Theravada Buddhism came to be influenced by western modernism, and some monks tried to restore the Buddhist practice of meditation. Based on the commentaries, Ledi Sayadaw developed \"vipassana meditation\", which regards \"samatha\" to be unnecessary, and stresses the practice of \"satipatthana\" to acquire \"vipassana\" (insight) into the three marks of existence as the main means to attain the beginning of awakening and become a stream-enterer.\n\nIt was highly popularized in the 20th century in traditional Theravada countries by Mahasi Sayadaw, who introduced the \"New Burmese Satipatthana Method\". It also gained a large following in the west, due to westerners who learned \"vipassana\" from Mahasi Sayadaw, S. N. Goenka, and other Burmese teachers. Some also studied with Thai Buddhist teachers, who are more critical of the commentarial tradition, and stress the joined parctice of \"samatha\" and \"vipassana\". \n\nThe 'American vipassanā movement' includes contemporary American Buddhist teachers such as Joseph Goldstein, Tara Brach, Gil Fronsdal, Sharon Salzberg, Ruth Denison and Jack Kornfield. \n\nMost of these teachers combine the strict Burmese approach with the Thai approach, and also other Buddhist and non-Buddhist ideas and practices, due to their broader training and their critical approach of the Buddhist sources. And while the New Burmese Method is strictly based on the Theravada Abhidhamma and the \"Visuddhimagga\", western teachers tend to base their practice also on personal experience and on the suttas, which they approach in a more textual-critical way.\n\nIn a broader sense, modern western Theravada-oriented meditation also include the teachings of Western-born monastics like Bikkhu Bodhi, Bhikkhu Sujato, Bhikkhu Analayo, and Thanissaro Bhikkhu. They tend to take a more critical approach of the Buddhist suttas, some of them noticing that the Theravada commentaries deviate from the suttas in critical ways.\n\nA recent development is the understanding that \"jhana\", as described in the nikayas, is not a form of concentration-meditation, but a training in heightened awareness and equanimity, which forms the culmination of the Buddhist path.\n\nAccording to Buswell, by the 10th century \"vipassana\" was no longer practiced in the Theravada tradition, due to the belief that Buddhism had degenerated, and that liberation was no longer attainable until the coming of \"Maitreya\". According to Braun, \"the majority of Theravadins and dedicated Buddhists of other traditions, including monks and nuns, have focused on cultivating moral behavior, preserving the Buddha’s teachings (dharma), and acquiring the good karma that comes from generous giving.\" \n\nThe interest in meditation was re-awakened in Myanmar (Burma) in the 18th century by Medawi (1728–1816), who wrote \"vipassana\" manuals. The actual practice of meditation was re-invented in Theravada-countries in the 19th and 20th centuries and simplified meditation techniques, based on the \"Satipatthana sutta\", the \"Visuddhimagga\", and other texts, emphasizing \"satipatthana\" and bare insight were developed.\n\nIn the 19th and 20th century the Theravada traditions in Burma, Thailand and Sri Lanka were rejuvenated in response to western colonialism. They were rallying points in the struggle against western hegemonism, giving voice to traditional values and culture. But the Theravada-tradition was also reshaped, using the Pali scriptural materials to legitimize these reforms. Ironically, the Pali canon became widely accessible due to the western interest in those texts, and the publications of the Pali Text Society. A major role was also being played by the Theosophical Society, which sought for ancient wisdom in south-East Asia, and stimulated local interest in its own traditions. The Theosophical Society started a lay-Buddhist organisation in Sri Lanka, independent from power of conventional temples and monasteries. Interest in meditation was awakened by these developments, whereas the main Buddhist practice in temples was the recitation of texts, not of meditation practice. \n\nLay participation in Theravada countries grew strongly in the 20th century, and eventually also reached the west. Most influential in this renewed interest was the \"new Burmese method\" of Vipassana practice, as developed by U Nārada (1868–1955) and popularized by Mahasi Sayadaw (1904-1982). Ultimately, this practice aims at stream entry, with the idea that this first stage of the path to awakening safeguards future development of the person towards full awakening, despite the degenerated age we live in. This method spread over South and Southeast Asia, Europe and America, and has become synonymous with \"Vipassana\".\n\nA comparable development took place in Thailand, where the Buddhist orthodoxy was challenged by monks who aimed to reintroduce the practice of meditation, based on the Sutta Pitaka. In contrast to the Burmese vipassana teachers, Thai teachers taught \"vipassana\" in tandem with \"samatha\". The practical and doctrinal differences have been heatedly debated within south-east Asian Theravada Buddhism. They have also influenced western teachers, who have tended to take a more liberal approach, questioning the new orthodoxy and integrating various practices and doctrines.\n\nSince the 1980s, the Vipassana movement has given way to the largely secularized \"mindfulness\" practice, which has its roots in Zen and \"vipassana\"-meditation, and has eclipsed the popularity of vipassana meditation. In the latter approach, mindfulness, understood as \"the awareness that arises by paying attention on purpose, in the present moment, and non-judgmentally\", is the central practice, instead of \"vipassana\".\n\nThe vipassanā movement emphasizes the use of vipassanā to gain insight into the three marks of existence as the main means to attain wisdom and the total liberation from \"dukkha\". The practices are based on the \"Satipatthana sutta\", the \"Visuddhimagga\", and other texts, emphasizing \"satipatthana\" and bare insight.\n\nThe various movements espouse forms of samatha and vipassanā meditation. The various vipassana teachers also make use of the scheme of the insight knowledges, stages of insight which every practitioner passes through in their progress of meditation. The foundation for this progress is the meditation on the arising and passing away of all contemplated phenomena (anicca), which leads to an understanding of their unsatisfactory (dukkha) nature and insight into not-self (anatta).\n\nContemporary Burmese Theravāda Buddhism is one of the main creators of modern vipassanā practice, which has gained popularity from the 1950s onward.\n\nLedi Sayadaw (1846 – 1923) prepared the ground for the popularisation of meditation by a lay audience, by re-introducing the practice of meditation, based on the Abhidhamma. \n\nS. N. Goenka (1924 - 2013) was a well-known teacher in the Ledi-lineage who was taught by Sayagyi U Ba Khin (1899-1971). According to S. N. Goenka, vipassanā techniques are essentially non-sectarian in character, and have universal application. One need not convert to Buddhism to practice these styles of meditation. Meditation centers teaching the vipassanā popularized by S. N. Goenka exist now in Nepal, India, other parts of Asia, North and South America, Europe, Australia, Middle East and Africa. In the tradition of S.N.Goenka, vipassanā practice focuses on the deep interconnection between mind and body, which can be experienced directly by disciplined attention to the physical sensations that form the life of the body, and that continuously interconnect and condition the life of the mind. \nThe practice is usually taught in 10-day retreats, in which 3 days are given to the practice of anapanasati, intended to increase consistency and precision of attention, and the rest of the time is given to vipassanā in the form of \"body sweep\" practice in which the meditator moves through the body in sections, or as a whole, paying attention to the various sensations that arise without reacting to them. According to Bhikkhu Analayo, \"this form of meditation has by now become what probably is the most widely taught form of insight meditation world-wide.\" \n\nRuth Denison (1922 – 2015) was another senior teacher of the U Ba Khin method. Anagarika Munindra studied with both S.N. Goenka and Mahasi Sayadaw, and combined both lineages. Dipa Ma was a student of his.\n\nThe \"New Burmese method\" was developed by U Nārada (1868–1955) and popularized by his student. Mahasi Sayadaw (1904-1982) It was introduced to Sri Lanka in 1939, but became popular in the 1950s with the arrival of Burmese monks, where it gained great popularity among the laiti, but was also severely criticised because of its disregard of \"samatta\". Most senior western vipassana teachers (Goldstein, Kornfield, Salzberg) studied with Mahasi Sayadaw and his student Sayadaw U Pandita. Nyanaponika Thera (1901–1994) ordained already in the fifties, contributing to the interest in \"vipassana\" with his publications. Prominent teacher Bhikkhu Bodhi is a student of Nyanaponika.\n\nAjahn Tong was a Thai master who studied for a short time under Mahasi Sayadaw before returning to found his own Vipassana lineage at Chom Tong in Thailand.\n\nThe \"New Burmese Method\" disregards the practice of \"samatta\", and emphasises the attainment of \"vipassana\", insight, by practising \"sartipatthana\", paying close attention to the ongoing changes in body and mind. Gil Fronsdal: \nNyanaponika Thera coined the term \"bare attention\" for the mindfulness practice of the \"new Burmese Method.\" Yet, Robert H. Sharf notes that Buddhist practice is aimed at the attainment of \"correct view\", not just \"bare attention\":\n\nMogok Sayadaw (1899-1962) taught the importance of the awareness of noticing the 'arising' and 'Passing away' of all experience as the way to gain insight into impermanence. Mogok Sayadaw emphasized the importance of right understanding and that a meditator should learn the theory of Dependent Origination (Paticcasamuppada) when practicing vipassana. The Mogok vipassana Method focuses on meditation of Feeling (Vedanannupassana) and meditation on Mind states (Cittanupassana).\n\nThe method of Pa Auk Sayadaw is closely based on the Visuddhimagga, a classic Theravada meditation manual. Pa Auk promotes the extensive development of the four jhanas, states of meditative absorption and focus. The insight element is based on surveying the body by observing the four elements (earth, water, fire and wind) by using the sensations of hardness, heaviness, warmth and motion. Western teachers who work with this method include Shaila Catherine, Stephen Snyder and Tina Rasmussen.\n\nComparable developments took place within Thai Theravada Buddhism, yet with somewhat different textual, doctrinal and practical stances. Mun Bhuridatta, the founder of the Thai Forest tradition, also sought to re-introduce the practice of meditation. \n\nWhile not a lay movement, the Thai Forest Tradition has been influential in the development of the lay meditation movements. This is a tradition of Buddhist monasticism within Thai Theravāda Buddhism which was in part a reaction against this perceived dilution in Buddhism. Practitioners inhabit remote wilderness and forest dwellings as spiritual practice training grounds. It is widely known among Thai people for its orthodoxy, conservatism, and strict adherence to monastic rules (\"vinaya\").\n\nPerhaps its most widely known representative was Ajahn Chah; Jack Kornfield, one of the main western teachers of Insight meditation, trained as a monk under Ajahn Chah. Ajahn Sumedho is the senior Western representative of the Thai forest tradition, he was the abbot of Amaravati Buddhist Monastery (1984-2010). A well-known American monk in this tradition is Ṭhānissaro Bhikkhu, abbot of Metta Forest Monastery in San Diego County. Western representatives of the Thai forest tradition are known to teach lay practitioners at the monasteries and to visit lay meditation centers to teach.\n\nAnother influential scholar-monk was Buddhadasa, who gave his own original interpretation of key teachings, rejecting the classical rebirth-doctrine, and emphasizing liberation from \"dukkha\" in this life.\n\nSince the early 1980s, insight meditation has gained a growing popularity in the western world, and saw a synthesis of various practices and backgrounds, with the growing insight in its roots and doctrinal background, and the introduction of other modern traditions. A major developments is the popularisation of mindfulness as a technique of its own.\n\nJack Kornfield and Joseph Goldstein taught a series of classes at Naropa University in 1974, and began teaching a series of retreats together for the next two years. The retreats were modeled on 10- and 30-day Goenka retreats, but the technique taught was mainly based on Mahasi Sayadaw's practice (with the inclusion of Metta meditation). In 1976 Kornfield and Goldstein, along with Sharon Salzberg and Jacqueline Schwartz founded the Insight Meditation Society in Barre, Massachusetts, followed by its sister center, Spirit Rock Meditation Center in Marin County, California. \n\nKornfield, and related teachers, tend to de-emphasize the religious elements of Buddhism such as \"rituals, chanting, devotional and merit-making activities, and doctrinal studies\" and focus on meditative practice. According to Jack Kornfield, \nSome teachers adhere to a strict 'Burmese approach', in which meditation is equated with \"kasina\" (concentration) meditation, and vipassana is the main aim. Others, like Bhikkhu Thannissaro, who trained in Thailand, criticise the Burmese orthodoxy, and propagate an integrative approach, in which samatha and vipassana are developed in tandem. Kornfield, who trained in both Burma and Thailand, also propagates an integrative approach.\n\nA main criticism of the Burmese method is it's reliance on the commentatorial literature, in which vipassana is separated from samatha, and \"jhana\" is equated with concentration meditation.Thanissaro Bhikkhu stresses the fact that the kasina-method is marginally treated in the suttas, in which the emphasis is predominantly on \"jhana\". In the suttas, \"samatha\" and \"vipassana\" are qualities of the mind which are developed together. This point is also reiterated by Shankman, arguing that samatha and vipassana cannot be separated. \n\nGroundbreaking research on early Buddhist meditation has been conducted by Bronkhorst, Vetter, Gethin, Gombrich, and Wynne arguing that \"jhana\" may have been the core practice of early Buddhism, and noting that this practice was not a form of concentration-meditation, but a cumulative practice resulting in mindful awareness of objects while being indifferent to it. Polak, elaborating on Vetter, notes that the onset of the first \"dhyana\" is described as a quite natural process, due to the preceding efforts to restrain the senses and the nurturing of wholesome states. Recently Keren Arbel, elaborating on Bronkhorst, vetter and Gethin, has argued that mindfulness, jhana, samatha and vipassana form an integrated whole, leading to an alert, joyful and compassionate state of mind and being. Polak and Arbel, following Gethin, further note that there is a \"definite affinity\" between the four \"jhanas\" and the \"bojjhaṅgā\", the seven factors of awakening.\n\nThe \"bare attention\" propagated in the New Burmese Method has been popularized as mindfulness, starting with Jon Kabat Zinn's MBSR, developed in the late 1970s.\n\nWomen have been quite prominent as teachers in the vipassanā movement. Though the formal Theravāda vipassanā tradition has been maintained by an almost exclusively male monastic tradition, nuns and non-monastic female adepts have played important roles, despite being completely absent or only noted in the background of the historical record. These teachers and practitioners expand the framework of vipassanā to incorporate the immanence of the female body and its innate opportunities for enlightenment through the cycles of its physiology and the emotions of marriage, childlessness, childbearing, child loss, and widowhood.\n\nThe modern Bangladeshi teacher Dipa Ma, a student of Anagarika Munindra, was one of the first female Asian masters to be invited to teach in America. As a widowed, single mother, Dipa Ma was a householder (non-monastic) who exemplified liberation and taught vipassanā as not only a retreat practice but also a lifestyle. Her message to women and men was you don't have to leave your family to reach high states of spiritual understanding, and she taught a radical inclusiveness. She encouraged women who were mothers of young children to practice vipassanā through the daily activities of mothering. She once said to Joseph Goldstein that \"Women have an advantage over men because they have more supple minds... It may be difficult for men to understand this, because they are men.\" When asked if there was any hope for men, she replied \"The Buddha was a man, and Jesus was a man. So there is hope for you.\"\n\nDipa Ma's mettā (loving-kindness) meditation instruction was a core component to be practiced after each vipassanā session. It involves five stages, the first of which was the mastery of self-compassion in mind and heart, then continuing to the other stages. The prayer of the first stage, given in English is as follows:\n\nIndian teacher Ilaichidevi Goenka, was a wife of the Burmese-trained S. N. Goenka and mother of six children, began practicing adhittan vipassanā when her youngest child was four years old, eventually joining her husband on the teaching platform as co-teacher to thousands of students at retreat centers and prisons all over India as well as internationally. Prisoners who do vipassanā meditation reportedly experience less behavior problems while incarcerated and have lower rates of recidivism. \"Mataji\", as she is lovingly referred to by her students, also used to lead chants with her husband.\n\nIndian Shambhavi Chopra, a former textiles designer and divorced mother of two who is now co-director of the American Institute of Vedic Studies, writes of her 10-day vipassanā meditation training at a retreat center in Germany in her book \"Yogini: The Enlightened Woman\", and encourages students to explore vipassanā practice and mastery as a devotion to the Divine Mother of all.\n\nVipassanā movement traditions have offered meditation programs in some prisons. One notable example was in 1993 when Kiran Bedi, a reformist Inspector General of India's prisons, learned of the success of vipassanā in a jail in Jaipur, Rajasthan. A ten-day retreat involved officials and inmates alike was then tried in India's largest prison Tihar Jail near New Delhi. Vipassana is being taught in Jail 4 of Tihar Prisons to inmates in two ten day courses every month around the year since 1994 onwards. This program was said to have dramatically changed the behavior of inmates and jailers alike. Inmates who completed the ten-day course were less violent and had a lower recidivism rate than other inmates. This project was documented in the documentary film, \"Doing Time, Doing Vipassana\".\n\nThai Forest Tradition\n\nBurma\n\n\nThailand\n\nBurma/Burmese tradition\n\nWestern teachers\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42576657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42576657", "title": "Zenodotus (Stoic)", "text": "Zenodotus (Stoic)\n\nZenodotus (; ; fl. 150 BC) was a Stoic philosopher. He was a pupil of Diogenes of Babylon. All information about him comes from Diogenes Laertius, everything else has been lost.\n\nDiogenes Laertius recorded the epitaph Zenodotus wrote for Zeno of Citium:\nChrysippus dedicated a two-book treatise on Proverbs to Zenodotus.\n"}
