{"id": "15311782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15311782", "title": "Accessible category", "text": "Accessible category\n\nThe theory of accessible categories is a part of mathematics, specifically of category theory. It attempts to describe categories in terms of the \"size\" (a cardinal number) of the operations needed to generate their objects. \n\nThe theory originates in the work of Grothendieck completed by 1969 and Gabriel–Ulmer (1971). It has been further developed in 1989 by Michael Makkai and Robert Paré, with motivation coming from model theory, a branch of mathematical logic.\nA standard text book by Adámek and Rosický appeared in 1994.\nAccessible categories also have applications in homotopy theory. Grothendieck continued the development of the theory for homotopy-theoretic purposes in his (still partly unpublished) 1991 manuscript \"Les dérivateurs\".\nSome properties of accessible categories depend on the set universe in use, particularly on the cardinal properties and Vopěnka's principle.\n\nLet formula_1 be an infinite regular cardinal, i.e. a cardinal number that is not the sum of a smaller number of smaller cardinals; examples are formula_4 (aleph-0), the first infinite cardinal number, and formula_5, the first uncountable cardinal). A partially ordered set formula_6 is called formula_1-directed if every subset formula_8 of formula_9 of cardinality less than formula_1 has an upper bound in formula_9. In particular, the ordinary directed sets are precisely the formula_12-directed sets.\n\nNow let formula_13 be a category. A direct limit (a.k.a. directed colimit) over a formula_1-directed set formula_6 is called a formula_1-directed colimit. An object formula_17 of formula_13 is called formula_1-presentable if the Hom functor formula_20 preserves all formula_1-directed colimits in formula_13. It is clear that every formula_1-presentable object is also formula_24-presentable whenever formula_25, since every formula_24-directed colimit is also a formula_1-directed colimit in that case. A formula_12-presentable object is called finitely presentable. \n\n\n\n\nThe category formula_13 is called formula_1-accessible provided that:\n\n\nAn formula_12-accessible category is called finitely accessible.\nA category is called accessible if it is formula_1-accessible for some infinite regular cardinal formula_1. \nWhen an accessible category is also cocomplete, it is called locally presentable.\n\nA functor formula_50 between formula_1-accessible categories is called formula_1-accessible provided that formula_53 preserves formula_1-directed colimits. \n\n\n\n\n\n\nOne can show that every locally presentable category is also complete. Furthermore, a category is locally presentable if and only if it is equivalent to the category of models of a limit sketch.\n\nAdjoint functors between locally presentable categories have a particularly simple characterization. A functor formula_50 between locally presentable categories:\n\n"}
{"id": "7748323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7748323", "title": "Agreeableness", "text": "Agreeableness\n\nAgreeableness is a personality trait manifesting itself in individual behavioral characteristics that are perceived as kind, sympathetic, cooperative, warm, and considerate. In contemporary personality psychology, agreeableness is one of the five major dimensions of personality structure, reflecting individual differences in cooperation and social harmony.\n\nPeople who score high on this dimension are empathetic and altruistic, while a low agreeableness score relates to selfish behavior and a lack of empathy. Those who score very low on agreeableness show signs of dark triad behavior such as manipulation and competing with others rather than cooperating.\n\nAgreeableness is considered to be a superordinate trait, meaning that it is a grouping of personality sub-traits that cluster together statistically. The lower-level traits, or facets, grouped under agreeableness are: trust, straightforwardness, altruism, compliance, modesty, and tender-mindedness.\n\nLike all Big Five personality traits, the roots of the modern concept of agreeableness can be traced to a 1936 study by Gordon Allport and Henry S. Odbert. Seven years later, Raymond Cattell published a cluster analysis of the thousands of personality-related words identified by Allport and Odbert. The clusters identified in this study served as a foundation for Cattell's further attempts to identify fundamental, universal, human personality factors. He eventually settled on 16 personality factors through the use of factor analysis. Further factor analyses revealed five higher-order, or \"global\", factors to encompass these 16. Although labelled \"independence\" by Cattell, a global factor defined by high scores on the E, H, L, and Q1 factors of the 16PF Questionnaire was an early precursor to the modern concept of agreeableness.\n\nExtent of agreeableness in the five factor model of personality is most commonly assessed through self-report measures, although peer-reports and third-party observation can also be used. Self-report measures are either \"lexical\" or based on \"statements\". Which measure of either type is used is determined by an assessment of psychometric properties and the time and space constraints of the research being undertaken.\n\n\"Lexical measures\" use individual adjectives that reflect agreeableness or disagreeableness traits, such as sympathetic, cooperative, warm, considerate, harsh, unkind, rude. Words representing disagreeableness are reverse coded. Goldberg (1992) developed a 20-word measure as part of his 100-word Big Five markers, and Saucier (1994) developed a briefer 8-word measure as part of his 40-word mini-markers. Thompson (2008) systematically revised and improved these markers to develop a 40-word measure with better psychometric properties in both American and non-American populations, the International English Mini-Markers. This brief measure has good internal consistency reliabilities and other validity for assessing agreeableness and other five factor personality dimensions, both within and, especially, without American populations. Internal consistency reliability of the Agreeableness measure for native English-speakers is reported as .86, that for non-native English-speakers is .80.\n\n\"Statement measures\" tend to comprise more words, and hence consume more research instrument space, than lexical measures. Respondents are asked the extent to which they, for example, \"Am on good terms with nearly everyone\", \"Am not interested in other people's problems\" or \"Sympathize with others' feelings\".\n\nCattell's factor analytic approach, used to identify the universal personality structures, inspired countless studies in the decades following the introduction of the 16PF. Using Cattell's original clusters, the 16 Personality Factors, and original data, multiple researchers independently developed a five factor model of personality over this period. From the early 1960s on, these explorations typically included a factor called \"agreeableness\" or \"sociability.\" Despite repeated replications of five stable personality factors following Cattell's pioneering work, this framework only began to dominate personality research in the early 1980s with the work of Lewis Goldberg. Using lexical studies similar to those of Allport and Odbert, Goldberg chose the term \"Big Five\" to reflect the sheer number of personality-related terms encompassed by each of these five distinct factors. One of these, agreeableness, was defined by a number of personality-related words similar to those present in earlier and more recent manifestations of the construct; examples include \"friendly,\" \"good-natured,\" \"cooperative,\" \"trustful,\" \"nurturing,\" \"sociable,\" and \"considerate.\"\n\nBeginning in the 1970s, Paul Costa and Robert McCrae began researching the development of personality assessments based on factor models. Beginning with cluster analyses of Cattell's 16 Personality Factors, Costa and McCrae initially settled on a three-factor model of personality. These three factors were neuroticism (vs. emotional stability), extraversion (vs. introversion), and openness (vs. closedness) to experience, resulting in the acronym \"NEO.\" Due to similarities between their three-factor NEO Personality Inventory and Goldberg's Big Five, Costa and McCrae began to develop scales to assess agreeableness and conscientiousness in the early 1980s. This work culminated in the 1985 publication of the first NEO PI Manual to be based on the full Five Factor Model. Although this marked the introduction of agreeableness to the NEO PI, Costa and McCrae worked for an additional seven years to identify and elaborate on the facets comprising this factor in the Revised NEO Personality Inventory.\n\nIn the NEO PI, each of the five factors identified by Costa and McCrae are identified with six lower-level traits. Known as facets, the lower-level traits subsumed by agreeableness were first introduced with the 1992 publication of the revised version of the NEO PI. Based on the modern NEO PI-R, the six facets of agreeableness are: Trust, straightforwardness, Altruism, Compliance, Modesty, and Tender-Mindedness.\n\nTrust is a defining feature of psychosocial development, personality theory, and folk psychological conceptions of personality. Individuals who score high on this facet generally believe others' intentions to be benevolent. Those scoring low on this facet tend to be cynical and view others as suspicious, dishonest, or dangerous.\n\nStraightforwardness is the quality of directness and frankness in dealing with others. Despite a long history in moral philosophy, straightforwardness is not as vital to personality theory as the other facets of agreeableness. Those scoring high on straightforwardness tend to interact with others in a direct and frank manner. Low scorers are less direct, tend to be high in self-monitoring, and are generally deceitful or manipulative. Although the two concepts are not identical, those who score low on this facet tend to be high in Machiavellianism. Straightforwardness is similar to a dimension in the Interpersonal circumplex called \"Ingenuous versus calculating.\" According to Michael C. Ashton and Kibeom Lee, straightforwardness is similar to the honesty aspect of honesty-humility in the HEXACO Model.\n\nSimilar to altruism in animals and ethical altruism, this facet is defined by measures of selflessness, self-sacrifice, generosity, and consideration, courtesy, and concern for others. Altruism is similar to Alfred Adler's concept of social interest, which is a tendency to direct one's actions toward the betterment of society. Individuals who score low on Altruism tend to be discourteous, selfish, or greedy, a pattern of behaviors known as \"self-interest\" in Adlerian psychology.\n\nAs a facet of agreeableness, compliance is defined as an individual's typical response to conflict. Those who score high on compliance tend to be meek and mild, and to prefer cooperation or deference as a means of resolving conflict. Low scorers tend to be aggressive, antagonistic, quarrelsome, and vindictive.\n\nWhile trust, straightforwardness, altruism, and compliance all refer to interpersonal or social behaviors, modesty refers to an individual's self-concept. Those who score high on modesty tend to be humble and other-focused, while low scorers tend to be arrogant and self-aggrandizing. Low modesty is otherwise known as conceitedness or Narcissism and, in extreme cases, can manifest as Narcissistic personality disorder. Otherwise known as \"humility\" in the Revised NEO Personality Inventory, modesty resembles the humility aspect of Honesty-Humility in the HEXACO Model.\n\nTender-mindedness is defined as the extent to which an individual's judgments and attitudes are determined by emotion. Coined by William James, this term was also prominent in early versions of the 16PF. Tender-mindedness is primarily defined by sympathy and corresponds to the International Personality Item Pool's \"sympathy\" scale. In contrast, \"tough minded\" is a trait associated with Psychoticism on the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire.\n\nModels based on psychobiological theories of personality have each incorporated a factor similar to agreeableness. In Cloninger's Temperament and Character Inventory the character trait known as cooperativeness is highly similar to and positively correlated with agreeableness. In Zuckerman's alternative five model of personality the trait known as Aggression-hostility is inversely related to agreeableness.\n\nTo address the absence of measures of Dark triad traits (i.e., narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy), Michael Ashton and Kibeom Lee proposed the addition of a sixth factor to the Five Factor Model. Validated with psycholexical studies similar to those used in the development of the Five Factor Model, the HEXACO Model adds Honesty-Humility to five factors resembling those in the NEO PI. Although Honesty-Humility does not directly correspond to any Big Five trait, it is strongly correlated with the Straightforwardness and Modesty facets of Big Five Agreeableness. As both of these facets are only weakly correlated with Big Five Agreeableness, Ashton and Lee suggest dividing NEO PI Agreeableness into two factors similar to those in the HEXACO Model: Honesty-Humility (i.e., Straightforwardness and Modesty) and a redefined Agreeableness (Trust, Altruism, Compliance, and Tender-Mindedness). Reflecting this conception of Honesty-Humility and HEXACO Agreeableness as unique though similar concepts, Ashton and Lee propose that they represent different aspects of reciprocal altruism: fairness (Honesty-Humility) and tolerance (Agreeableness).\n\nDespite suggesting this reconceptualization of Agreeableness for the NEO PI, Ashton and Lee do not believe HEXACO Agreeableness is accurately captured by Trust, Altruism, Compliance, and Tender-Mindedness. In addition to accounting for these four facets of Big Five Agreeableness, the HEXACO Model's construction of Agreeableness includes content categorized under Neuroticism in the NEO PI (i.e., temperamentalness and irritability). To reflect the negative emotional content at the low end of HEXACO Agreeableness, this factor is also referred to as \"Agreeableness (versus Anger).\" The inclusion of anger in the definition of HEXACO Agreeableness further helps to differentiate this factor from Honesty-Humility. In response to offensive or transgressive actions, individuals who score low on Honesty-Humility tend not to respond immediately. Instead, they defer their response by planning their revenge and waiting for the perfect opportunity to enact it. Although those who score low on HEXACO Agreeableness also employ this premeditated strategy, they also tend to respond immediately with anger.\n\nTo help capture the numerous distinctions between the Big Five and HEXACO models, Ashton and Lee propose four new facet labels in their conceptualization of Agreeableness: Forgiveness, Gentleness, Flexibility, and Patience. In addition to these four Agreeableness-specific facets, Lee and Ashton have proposed an additional \"interstitial\" facet located in a space shared by Agreeableness, Honesty-Humility, and Emotionality: Altruism versus Antagonism.\n\nAgreeableness is an asset in situations that require getting along with others. Compared to disagreeable persons, agreeable individuals display a tendency to perceive others in a more positive light.\n\nBecause agreeable children are more sensitive to the needs and perspectives of others, they are less likely to suffer from social rejection. Specifically, research indicates that children who are less disruptive, less aggressive, and more skilled at entering play groups are more likely to gain acceptance by their peers.\n\nOne study found that people high in agreeableness are more emotionally responsive in social situations. This effect was measured on both self-report questionnaires and physiological measures, and offers evidence that extraversion and neuroticism are not the only Big Five personality factors that influence emotion. The effect was especially pronounced among women.\n\nResearch also shows that people high in agreeableness are more likely to control negative emotions like anger in conflict situations. Those who are high in agreeableness are more likely to use conflict-avoidant tactics when in conflict with others (whereas people low in agreeableness are more likely to use coercive tactics). They are also more willing to give ground to their adversary and may lose arguments with people who are less agreeable. From their perspective, they have not really lost an argument as much as maintained a congenial relationship with another person.\n\nA central feature of agreeableness is its positive association with altruism and helping behaviour. Across situations, people who are high in agreeableness are more likely to report an interest and involvement with helping others. Experiments have shown that most people are likely to help their own kin, and help when empathy has been aroused. Agreeable people are likely to help even when these conditions are not present. In other words, agreeable people appear to be \"traited for helping\" and do not need any other motivations.\n\nWhile agreeable individuals are habitually likely to help others, disagreeable people may be more likely to cause harm. Researchers have found that low levels of agreeableness are associated with hostile thoughts and aggression in adolescents, as well as poor social adjustment. People low in agreeableness are also more likely to be prejudiced against stigmatized groups such as the overweight.\n\nWhen mental illness is present, low agreeableness may be associated with narcissistic and anti-social tendencies. In theory, individuals who are extremely high in agreeableness are at risk for problems of dependency. Empirical studies show that many more problems are associated with low agreeableness.\n\nHowever, high agreeableness does not always lead to prosocial behaviour, in a Milgram experiment conscientiousness and agreeableness were associated with willingness to administer high-intensity electric shocks to a victim.\n\nAgreeableness is of fundamental importance to psychological well-being, predicting mental health, positive affect, and good relations with others. In both childhood and adolescence agreeableness has been tied to externalizing issues. Along with this it has also been implicated in outcomes to conflict management skills, school adjustment, peer-social status and self-esteem. Some work has been done looking into whether agreeableness levels through childhood have effects on adjustment and agreeableness into adulthood. Among young adults, individuals that have been diagnosed with either externalizing as well as internalizing disorders present lower levels of agreeableness and communion, and higher levels of negative emotionality, than those young adults without such disorders. Agreeableness also is reported to mediate links between anger and depression in young adults. Among college students, agreeableness is often associated with self-reports of emotional experience and control along with psycho-physiological responses to affectively charged stimuli. Across adulthood, low agreeableness has been found to be a health risk. High agreeableness, especially trust and honesty, has been linked to longevity.\n\nA study done by Caspi, Elder, and Bem (1987) found that explosive and ill-tempered children were found to have higher rates of divorce as adults when compared with their even-tempered peers. Further, ill-tempered men had lower educational attainment, occupational status, and work stability, and ill-tempered women married men with similar low achievement profiles A second and more recent study by Shiner (2000) found that composite variables describing middle-childhood agreeableness and friendly compliance predicted adolescent academic performance, behavioral conduct, and social competence 10 years later\n\nMost recent is a study done by Larsen, Pulkkinen, and Adams (2002) in which they looked at many different levels of childhood behavior and emotion and the correlation into adulthood agreeableness. In their first analyses, structure coefficients showed that childhood compliance, aggression, and self-control discriminated high-agreeableness from low-agreeableness in adults better than did activity versus passivity, constructiveness, and anxiety. In their second analyses, structure coefficients indicated that adulthood socialization and impulsivity discriminated high-agreeableness from low-agreeableness in adults better than did inhibition of aggression and anxiety. In linking childhood behavioral profiles to adulthood personality profiles, high-compliant, high-self-control, and low-aggressive children were most likely to become high-agreeable, high-socialized, and low-impulsive adults. These children were more unlikely to become low-agreeable, low-socialized, and high-impulsive adults. Further, low-compliant, low-self-control, and high-aggressive children were likely to become low-agreeable, low-socialized, and high-impulsive adults and these children were unlikely to become high-agreeable, high-socialized, and low-impulsive adults. In addition to this, children classified as low-compliance, low-self-control, low-aggression types and children classified as high-compliance, high-self-control, low-aggression types had a greater probability of becoming adults with high-agreeableness, high-socialization, high-impulsivity profiles. Looking at stability of agreeableness they found results that indicated that stable low agreeable individuals reported less career stability and more depression when compared with stable high agreeable individuals and low to high agreeable individuals. Further, stable high agreeable individuals reported lower levels of alcoholism than did the other groups and fewer arrests than did stable low agreeable individuals.\n\nIn the United States, people in the West, Midwest, and South tend to have higher average scores on agreeableness than people living in other regions. According to researchers, the top ten most agreeable states are North Dakota, Minnesota, Mississippi, Utah, Wisconsin, Tennessee, North Carolina, Georgia, Oklahoma, and Nebraska. These findings are consistent with well-known expressions in these states, such as \"southern hospitality\" and \"Minnesota nice.\" Because these states are generally less urbanized than the east and west coasts, people may be more likely to live in small communities and know their neighbors. Consequently, they may be more willing to care about and help their neighbours.\n\nIn a study done by Albright et al. (1997) groups of college students from China and the United States rated strangers from both countries on the \"Big Five\" personality traits, external traits, and how well they were dressed. They found that both Chinese and U.S. students rated faces as showing similar levels of agreeableness and extroversion. The people who were thought to be the most agreeable wore smiles, a facial expression that is recognized around the world. The findings of the research seem to suggest that the trait of agreeableness is attributed to people in a universal way.\n\n"}
{"id": "56286028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56286028", "title": "Apple (artwork)", "text": "Apple (artwork)\n\nApple is a 1966 conceptual artwork by the Japanese artist Yoko Ono.\n\nThe work consists of an apple on top of a plexiglass stand. A brass plaque bearing the word 'APPLE' is fixed to the front of the stand. The piece was subsequently covered in bronze as part of Ono's 'Bronze Age' series of artworks.\n\nThe work was shown at Ono's autumn 1966 show, \"Unfinished Paintings and Objects By Yoko Ono\" at the Indica Gallery in London. The preview night of Ono's Indica exhibition on 9 November 1966 was visited by the musician John Lennon who had heard that \"this amazing woman was going to be putting on a show...and it was going to be a bit of a happening\". Lennon described himself as \"astounded\" at the \"apple on sale for two hundred quid; I thought it was fantastic—I got her work immediately...it was two hundred quid to watch the fresh apple decompose\". The piece also appealed to Lennon as he \"didn't have to have much knowledge about avant-garde or underground art... the humor got me straight away\". Lennon took a bite out of the apple on display, before apologising and putting the apple back. Ono later recalled that \"...he just grabbed it and bit it and looked at me like, you know, \"There!\" you know? I was so furious, I didn't know what to say. And it all showed in my face: How dare this person, you know, mess around with my work?\". Lennon was subsequently impressed by his interaction with Ono's piece \"Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting\".\n\n\"Apple\" was recreated for the first time in four decades in 2006 at a recreation of the Indica Gallery at the art gallery Riflemaker in London's Soho district. The original Indica had closed in 1967. The piece was displayed at Ono's 2015 retrospective, \"Yoko Ono: One Woman Show, 1960–1971\" at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. Critic Bruce Handy highlighted \"Apple\" as one of the \"must see\" pieces from the exhibition, and believed the apple itself to be of the Granny Smith cultivar.\n\nIn 1966 Ono described the \"...excitement of watching the apple decay, and the decision as to whether to replace it, or just thinking of the beauty of the apple after it's gone\". Bruce Handy wrote that the accompanying label for \"Apple\" highlighted for the viewer the juxtaposition between the physical permanence of the pedestal's brass plaque and the \"passage of time marked by the apple's decay and periodic renewal as it is replaced throughout the course of the exhibition\" a relationship that begins as \"the transparent base recedes into space\".\n"}
{"id": "51812192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51812192", "title": "Argus finals system", "text": "Argus finals system\n\nThe Argus finals systems were a set of related systems of end-of-season championship playoff tournament used commonly in Australian rules football competitions in the early part of the 20th century. The systems generally comprised a simple four-team tournament, followed by the right of the top ranked team from the home-and-away season to challenge for the premiership. The systems were named after the Melbourne newspaper \"The Argus\", which developed and supported their use.\n\nIn 1901, the Victorian Football League first adopted the \"Argus system\", after issues had emerged with the fairness of the system which had been introduced in 1898.\n\nThe initial Argus system was, in effect, a simple four-team knock-out tournament, played as follows:\n\nThe major complaint about the Argus system used in 1901 was that the four qualifying teams had a statistically equal chance to win the premiership. This particularly displeased Geelong, who had won the minor premiership, but were eliminated when beaten by Collingwood in the Second Semi-Final.\n\nTo prevent this situation, the VFL re-introduced a provision which had existed under the 1898 system: after the simple knock-out tournament was completed, the team with the best win-loss record for the season would have the opportunity to challenge the winner of the knock-out tournament to a Grand Final for the premiership.\n\nThis variant of the Argus system was played as follows:\n\nIt is important to note that under this variant of the \"Argus\" System, the right to challenge did \"not\" automatically go to the minor premiers, \"i.e.\" the team which was ranked highest after the home-and-away season. If the minor premiership had been decided by a close margin, then any losses sustained during the finals could have cost the minor premier its right to challenge or even transferred it to another team.\n\nAn example of how this could have happened occurred in the 1906 VFL season: leading into the Final, Carlton had an overall record of 15–3, and Fitzroy had an overall record of 14–4, but Fitzroy had a superior percentage to Carlton.\n\nHad Carlton lost the Final to Fitzroy, both teams would have had a record of 15–4, but Fitzroy would have been ranked above Carlton with its superior percentage, and Carlton therefore would have lost the right of challenge, meaning that Fitzroy would win the premiership. As it happened, Carlton won the Final, giving them a record of 16–3 compared with Fitzroy's 14–5, so Fitzroy had no right of challenge, and Carlton won the premiership.\n\nMany Carlton players and officials, including coach Jack Worrall, erroneously believed that they would have had the right to challenge had they lost the Final. This confusion led to Carlton lodging a complaint with the VFL, and the VFL made further amendments in 1907 to correct for this anomaly.\n\nThe second version of the amended Argus system was used by the VFL between 1907 and 1930, except in 1924. This is the most widely known variation of the Argus system.\n\nThe structure of the finals was mostly the same as the first amended Argus system, except that the right to challenge was given to the Minor Premier as defined by the team on top of the ladder at the end of the home-and-away season. Additionally, it became conventional for the two semi-finals to be played on separate weekends, extending the duration of the finals from two or three weeks to three or four weeks.\n\n\nThis variation of the Argus system was introduced into the VFA in 1903, four years before it was used in the VFL, being used by that competition until 1932, and was used in amateur football until 1956.\n\nFor the 1924 season only, the VFL trialled a new format, in which the finals were played as a four-team round-robin, but including the Minor Premiers' right to challenge. At the end of the home-and-away season, the top four teams qualified for the finals tournament.\n\nThe finals were played over three weeks (with a provision for a fourth week), under the fixture:\n\nAt the conclusion of the first three weeks, if the Minor Premier had finished on top of the round-robin ladder, then that team automatically won the Major Premiership, but if another team won the round-robin competition, then the finals progressed to Week Four.\n\n\nThe winner of this match became the Major Premier for the season.\n\nIn the sole VFL season that the system was used, no Grand Final was ultimately required.\n\nAfter having utilised four variations of the Argus system for thirty years, three clear drawbacks had emerged:\n\nTo correct for these flaws, the VFL introduced a new system in 1931, the Page–McIntyre system, that removed the minor premiers' right to challenge in favour of giving the minor premier and the second-placed team the advantage of a \"double chance\" that permitted either team to lose one match (excluding the Grand Final) without being eliminated, and fixed the number of finals at four.\n\nAll leagues using the Argus system eventually migrated to the Page–McIntyre system, with amateur football being the last to do so in 1956.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "319026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319026", "title": "Bystander intervention", "text": "Bystander intervention\n\nBystander intervention is a type of training used in post-secondary education institutions to prevent sexual assault or rape, binge drinking and harassment and unwanted comments of a racist, homophobic, or transphobic nature. A bystander is a person who is present at an event, party, or other setting who notices a problematic situation, such as a man making sexual advances on a drunk person. The bystander then takes on personal responsibility and takes action to intervene, with the goal of preventing the situation from escalating. \n\nThe bystander who is intervening has several options, including distracting either of the people, getting help from others, checking in later, or directly intervening. There are risks to bystander intervention; it can lead to fights, it can ruin the mood for the people who were \"intervened\" into, and it can lead to confrontations. Bystander intervention may also be called \"bystander education\", because the model is based on a system of educating trainers and leaders who will then go on to train people from their community.\nOne bystander intervention researcher suggests that a potential sexual assault be stopped by pretending to spill a drink on a drunk man who is trying to make sexual moves on an intoxicated woman, to distract him and \"...stop bad behavior before it crosses the line from drunken partying to sexual assault\". Advocates hope that bystander intervention programs can yield the same results on sexual assault that designated driver initiatives have had in reducing impaired driving; another similarity is that both programs do not discourage drinking itself, only the combination of drinking and law-breaking. Some US universities are introducing bystander education initiatives to comply with Title IX, which requires US universities which receive federal funding to not discriminate according to gender.\n\nA study on bystander intervention by the University of New Hampshire showed that 38 percent of the men who saw a bystander intervention campaign said they intervened to stop a sexual assault, versus only 12 percent of the control group (who did not see the campaign). An Ohio University study compared men who took a bystander intervention session with a group of men who did not have the training; 1.5 percent of the bystander intervention participants said they had committed sexual assault over the last four months, versus 6.7 percent from the untrained group. One challenge with bystander education programs is that a study has shown that white female students are less likely to intervene in a hypothetical situation where they see an intoxicated black woman being led towards a bedroom at a party by a non-intoxicated male, as white students feel \"less personal responsibility\" to help women of colour and they feel that the black woman is deriving pleasure from the situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "69414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69414", "title": "Castration", "text": "Castration\n\nCastration (also known as gonadectomy) is any action, surgical, chemical, or otherwise, by which an individual loses use of the testicles. Surgical castration is bilateral orchiectomy (excision of both testes), and chemical castration uses pharmaceutical drugs to deactivate the testes. Castration causes sterilization (preventing the castrated person or animal from reproducing); it also greatly reduces the production of certain hormones, such as testosterone. Surgical castration in animals is often called neutering.\n\nThe term \"castration\" is sometimes also used to refer to the removal of the ovaries in the female, otherwise known as an oophorectomy or, in animals, spaying. Estrogen levels drop precipitously following oophorectomy, and long-term effects of the reduction of sex hormones are significant throughout the body.\n\nThe term \"castration\" may also be sometimes used to refer to emasculation where both the testicles \"and\" the penis are removed together. In some cultures, and in some translations, no distinction is made between the two. This can cause confusion.\n\nCastration of non-human animals is intended to favor a desired development of the animal or of its habits, as an anaphrodisiac or to prevent overpopulation. As above, see neutering for more information on castration of non-human animals.\n\nCastration was frequently used for religious or social reasons in certain cultures in Europe, South Asia, Africa, and East Asia. After battles in some cases, winners castrated their captives or the corpses of the defeated to symbolize their victory and seize their \"power\". Castrated men — eunuchs – were often admitted to special social classes and were used particularly to staff bureaucracies and palace households: in particular, the harem. Castration also figured in a number of religious castration cults. Other religions, such as Judaism, were strongly opposed to the practice. The Leviticus Holiness code, for example, specifically excludes eunuchs or any males with defective genitals from the priesthood, just as castrated animals are excluded from sacrifice.\n\nEunuchs in China had been known to usurp power in many eras of Chinese history, most notably in the Later Han, late Tang and late Ming dynasties. There are similar recorded Middle Eastern events.\n\nIn ancient times, castration often involved the total removal of all the male genitalia. This involved great danger of death due to bleeding or infection and, in some states, such as the Byzantine Empire, was seen as the same as a death sentence. Removal of only the testicles had much less risk.\n\nEither surgical removal of both testicles or chemical castration may be carried out in the case of prostate cancer. Testosterone-depletion treatment (either surgical removal of both testicles or chemical castration) is used to slow down the cancer, greatly reduce sex drive or interest in those with sexual drives, obsessions, or behaviors, or any combination of those that may be considered deviant. \n\nCastration has also been used in the United States for sex offenders.\n\nTrans women often undergo orchiectomy, as do some other transgender people. Orchiectomy may be performed as part of a more general sex reassignment surgery, either before or during other procedures. It may also be performed on someone who does not desire, or cannot afford, further surgery.\nInvoluntary castration appears in the history of warfare, sometimes used by one side to torture or demoralize their enemies. It was practiced to extinguish opposing male lineages and thus allow the victor to sexually possess the defeated group's women.\n\nEdward Gibbon's \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" reports castration of defeated foes at the hands of the Normans during their invasions of Sicily and Italy.\n\nIn the medieval kingdom of Georgia, the pretender Demna was castrated by his uncle George III of Georgia to ensure the supremacy of George's branch of the family.\n\nAnother victim of castration was the medieval French philosopher, scholar, teacher, and (later) monk Pierre Abélard. He was castrated by relatives of his lover, Héloïse.\n\nBishop Wimund, a 12th-century English adventurer and invader of the Scottish coast, was castrated.\n\nIn medieval England those found guilty of high treason were hanged, drawn and quartered, which often included emasculation or removal of the genitalia.\n\nIn ancient Greek mythology, Cronus castrated his father, Uranus, after the latter imprisoned the Cyclopes and Hecatonchires.\n\nWilliam Wallace, the Scottish resistance leader, was castrated as part of his execution, for resistance to English rule.\n\nWim Deetman was criticized by the Dutch parliament for excluding evidence of castration in his report on sexual abuse by the Roman Catholic Church, where ten children were allegedly \"punished\" by castration in the 1950s for reporting sexual abuse by Roman Catholic priests. However, the Deetman Commission had rejected it as the person who reported the incident admitted it was speculative. Voluntary castration for homosexuality was also state policy in Netherlands at that point, as well against Catholic canon law, and there has been no evidence suggesting the Church had a part in organizing the procedures.\nChemical castration has been and is used as part of sentencing in criminal cases.\n\nIn 1952, Alan Turing—the father of computer science and the inventor of the Turing machine—was criminally prosecuted for homosexual acts and chose chemical castration as an alternative to a period of imprisonment.\n\nAccording to legend, during the reign of the legendary Emperor Shun and Yu in China, in 2281 BCE castration was passed into law as a punishment, which remained so until the reign of Gaozu of Tang (589–600 CE). However, it was still practiced after his reign. According to historians, it was incorporated into Chinese law during the Zhou Dynasty. It was one of the five physical punishments that could be legally inflicted on criminals in China.\n\nRecords of castrations in China date to the Shang dynasty (ca.1700–1050 BCE), when the Shang kings castrated prisoners of war.\n\nDuring the reign of Mu of the Zhou Dynasty (10th c. BCE) the Minister of Crime, Marquis Lu, reformed the law in 950 BC to make it easier for people to be sentenced to castration instead of death. As long as the practice existed in China, not only were the testicles merely removed but castration included the severing of one's entire genitalia. Both organs were cut off with a knife at the same time.\n\nMen were castrated and made into state slaves during the Qin dynasty (221–206 BCE) to perform forced labor for projects such as the Terracotta Army. The Qin government confiscated the property and enslaved the families of rapists who received castration as a punishment. Men punished with castration during the Han dynasty were also used as slave labor.\n\nIn the Han dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE), castration continued to be used as a punishment for various offences. Chinese historian Sima Qian was castrated by order of the Han Emperor of China for dissent. In another incident multiple people, including a chief scribe and his underlings, were subjected to castration.\n\nDuring the early part of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644 CE), China demanded eunuchs to be sent as tribute from Korea. Some of them oversaw the Korean concubines in the harem of the Chinese Emperor.\n\nWhen the Chinese overthrew Mongol rule, many Mongols were castrated and turned into eunuchs. When the Ming army finally captured Yunnan from Mongols in 1382, thousands of prisoners were killed and, according to the custom in times of war, their young sons—including Zheng He—were castrated.\n\nDuring the Miao Rebellions (Ming Dynasty), Chinese commanders castrated thousands of Miao boys when their tribes revolted, and then distributed them as eunuch slaves as gifts to various officials.\n\nAt the end of the Ming Dynasty, there were about 70,000 eunuchs (宦官 \"huànguān\", or 太監 \"tàijiàn\") employed by the emperor, with some serving inside the Forbidden City.\n\nMany of the non-Han Chinese peoples who founded states in China after invading originally did not have eunuchs as part of their culture, but adopted it from the Han Chinese.\n\nThe Khitan people adopted the practice of using eunuchs from the Chinese and the eunuchs used were non-Khitan prisoners of war. The Khitan were a nomadic Mongolic people and originally did not have eunuchs as part of their culture. When the Khitan founded the Liao Dynasty they developed a harem system with concubines and wives and adopted eunuchs as part of it. All of the eunuchs were captured ethnic Chinese from the Central Plains that came from two sources. The Khitan captured Chinese people who were already eunuchs at the Jin court when they invaded of the Later Jin. Another source was during their war with the Chinese Song dynasty, the Khitan would raid China, capture Han Chinese boys as prisoners of war and emasculate them to become eunuchs. The emasculation of captured Chinese boys guaranteed a continuous supply of eunuchs to serve in the Liao Dynasty harem. The Empress Dowager Chengtian played a large role in the raids to capture and emasculate the boys.\n\nThe Khitan Empress Dowager Xiao Chuo (Chengtian) of the Khitan Liao state took power at age 30 in 982 as a regent for her son. She personally led her own army against the Song Chinese in 986 and defeated them in battle, fighting the retreating Chinese army. She then ordered the castration of around 100 ethnic Chinese boys she had captured in China, supplementing the Khitan's supply of eunuchs to serve at her court, among them was Wang Ji'en. The boys were all under ten years old and were selected for their good looks.\n\nThe History of Liao 遼史 described and praised Empress Chengtian's capture and mass castration of Chinese boys in a biography on the Chinese eunuch Wang Ji'en.\n\nSome legends say that the Mongol Genghis Khan was castrated by a Tangut princess using a knife, who wanted revenge against his treatment of the Tanguts and to stop him from raping her.\n\nDuring the Qing dynasty (1644–1911 CE), the sons and grandsons of the rebel Yaqub Beg in China were all sentenced to castration. Surviving members of Yaqub Beg's family included his 4 sons, 4 grandchildren (2 grandsons and 2 granddaughters), and 4 wives. They either died in prison in Lanzhou, Gansu, or were killed by the Chinese. His sons Yima Kuli, K'ati Kuli, Maiti Kuli, and grandson Aisan Ahung were the only survivors in 1879. They were all underage children, and put on trial, sentenced to an agonizing death if they were complicit in their father's rebellious \"sedition\", or if they were innocent of their fathers crimes, were to be sentenced to castration and serving as a eunuch slave to Chinese troops, when they reached 11 years old, and handed over to the Imperial Household to be executed or castrated. Although some sources assert that the sentence of castration was carried out, official sources from the U.S. State Department and activists involved in the incident state that Yaqub Beg's son and grandsons had their sentence commuted to life imprisonment with a fund provided for their support. The last remaining Imperial eunuch, Sun Yaoting, died in 1996.\n\nThe eunuchs of Korea, called \"Naesi\" (내시, 內侍), were officials to the king and other royalty in traditional Korean society. The first recorded appearance of a Korean eunuch was in Goryeosa (\"History of Goryeo\"), a compilation about the Goryeo period. In 1392, with the founding of the Joseon Dynasty, the \"Naesi\" system was revised, and the department was renamed the \"Department of \"Naesi\"\" (내시부, 內侍府).\n\nThe Naesi system included two ranks, those of \"Sangseon\" (상선, 尙膳, \"Chief of Naesi\"), who held the official title of senior second rank, and \"Naegwan\" (내관, 內官, \"Common official naesi\"), both of which held rank as officers. 140 naesi in total served the palace in Joseon Dynasty period. They also took the exam on Confucianism every month. The naesi system was repealed in 1894 following Gabo reform.\n\nAccording to legend, castration consisted of daubing a boy's genitals with human feces and having a dog bite them off. During the Yuan Dynasty, eunuchs became a desirable commodity for tributes, and dog bites were replaced by more sophisticated surgical techniques.\n\nThe Vietnamese adopted the eunuch system and castration techniques from China. Records show that the Vietnamese created eunuchs through castration in a painful procedure by removing the entire genitalia with both penis and testicles being cut off with a sharp knife or metal blade. The procedure was agonizing since the entire penis was cut off. The young man's thighs and abdomen would be tied and others would pin him down on a table. The genitals would be sterilized with pepper water and then cut off. A tube would be then inserted into the urethra to allow urination during healing. Any facial hair such as the beard would fall off and the eunuch's voice would become like a girl's. The eunuchs served as slaves to the Vietnamese palace women in the harem like the consorts, concubines, maids, Queen, and Princesses, doing most of the work. The only man allowed in the Palace was the Emperor, the only others allowed were his women and the eunuchs since they were not able to have sexual relations with the women. The eunuchs were assigned to do work for the palace women like massaging and applying make up to the women and preparing them for sex with the Emperor.\n\nLý Thường Kiệt was a prominent eunuch general during the Lý Dynasty (1009–1225).\n\nThe Trần Dynasty sent Vietnamese boy eunuchs as tribute to Ming Dynasty China several times, in 1383, 1384 and 1385 Nguyen Dao, Nguyen Toan, Tru Ca, and Ngo Tin were among several Vietnamese eunuchs sent to China.\n\nDuring the Fourth Chinese domination of Vietnam, the Ming Chinese under the Yongle Emperor castrated many young Vietnamese boys, choosing them for their handsomeness and ability, and brought them to Nanjing to serve as eunuchs. Among them were the architect-engineer Nguyễn An and Nguyen Lang (阮浪). Vietnamese were among the many eunuchs of different origins found at Yongle's court. Among the eunuchs in charge of the Capital Battalions of Beijing was Xing An, a Vietnamese.\n\nIn the Lê Dynasty the Vietnamese Emperor Lê Thánh Tông was aggressive in his relations with foreign countries including China. A large amount of trade between Guangdong and Vietnam happened during his reign. Early accounts recorded that the Vietnamese captured Chinese whose ships had blown off course and detained them. Young Chinese men were selected by the Vietnamese for castration to become eunuch slaves to the Vietnamese. It has been speculated by modern historians that the Chinese who were captured and castrated by the Vietnamese were involved in trade between China and Vietnam instead of actually being blown off course by the wind and they were punished as part of a crackdown on foreign trade by Vietnam.\n\nSeveral Malay envoys from the Malacca sultanate were attacked and captured in 1469 by the Lê Dynasty of Annam (Vietnam) as they were returning to Malacca from China. The Vietnamese enslaved and castrated the young from among the captured.\n\nA 1472 entry in the Ming Shilu reported that when some Chinese from Nanhai county escaped back to China after their ship had been blown off course into Vietnam, where they had been forced to serve as soldiers in Vietnam's military. The escapees also reported that they found out up to 100 Chinese men remained captives in Vietnam after they were caught and castrated by the Vietnamese after their ships were blown off course into Vietnam. The Chinese Ministry of Revenue responded by ordering Chinese civilians and soldiers to stop going abroad to foreign countries. China's relations with Vietnam during this period were marked by the punishment of prisoners by castration.\n\nA 1499 entry in the Ming Shilu recorded that 13 Chinese men from Wenchang including a young man named Wu Rui were captured by the Vietnamese after their ship was blown off course while traveling from Hainan to Guangdong's Qin subprefecture (Qinzhou), after which they ended up near the coast of Vietnam, during the Chenghua Emperor's rule (1447–1487). Twelve of them were enslaved to work as agricultural laborers, while the youngest, Wu Rui (吳瑞) was selected for castration since he was the only young man and he became a eunuch attendant at the Vietnamese imperial palace in Thang Long. After years of service, he was promoted at the death of the Vietnamese ruler in 1497 to a military position in northern Vietnam. A soldier told him of an escape route back to China and Wu Rui escaped to Longzhou. The local chief planned to sell him back to the Vietnamese, but Wu was rescued by the Pingxiang magistrate and then was sent to Beijing to work as a eunuch in the palace.\n\nThe \"Đại Việt sử ký toàn thư\" records that in 1467 in An Bang province of Dai Viet (now Quảng Ninh Province) a Chinese ship blew off course onto the shore. The Chinese were detained and not allowed to return to China as ordered by Le Thanh Tong. This incident may be the same one where Wu Rui was captured.\n\nIn the Nguyễn Dynasty the poet Hồ Xuân Hương mocked eunuchs in her poem as a stand-in for criticizing the government.\n\nCommoners were banned from undergoing castration in Vietnam, only adult men of high social rank could be castrated, most eunuchs were born as such with a congenital abnormality. The Vietnamese government mandated that boys born with defective genitalia were to be reported to officials, in exchange for the town being freed from mandatory labor requirements. The boy would have the option of serving as a eunuch official or serving the palace women when he became ten years old. This law was put in place in 1838 during the Nguyễn Dynasty. The only males allowed inside the Forbidden City at Huế were the Emperor and his eunuchs.\n\nThe presence of eunuchs in Vietnam was used by the French colonizers to degrade the Vietnamese.\n\nIn 1778, Thomas Jefferson wrote a bill in Virginia reducing the punishment for rape, polygamy or sodomy from death to castration. Over the years several U.S. states have passed laws regarding chemical castration for sex offenders but not one state has mandatory castration. In 2016, Steve Hurst, an Alabama lawmaker proposed a bill requiring certain sex offenses to require the perpetrator be castrated prior to their release from state custody.\n\nIn 1983, Judge C. Victor Pyle gave three convicted rapists the sentence of 30 years or castration.\n\nAqa Mohammad Khan Qajar, who established the Qajar Dynasty in Iran (in the 18th century), was a victim of castration by officers of the previous kingdom. When he conquered Lotf Ali Khan, the last king of the Zand Dynasty, Qajar had Lotf Ali Khan castrated in revenge.\n\nIn the over 13 centuries of the Arab slave trade in Africa unknown number of Africans were enslaved and shipped to the Middle East. It is claimed that a vast majority of the male black slaves, estimated at around 80%, were castrated.\n\n\"The Caliphate in Baghdad at the beginning of the 10th Century had 7,000 black eunuchs and 4,000 white eunuchs in his palace.\" The Arab slave trade typically dealt in the sale of castrated male slaves. Black boys at the age of eight to twelve had their scrotum and penis completely amputated. Reportedly, about two of three boys died, but those who survived drew high prices.\n\nAn article in the \"Gulf Times\" revealed in 2005 a major sex trade in mostly Nepalese boys who were lured to India and sold to brothels in Mumbai, Hyderabad, New Delhi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur. One victim was lured from Nepal at the age of 14, sold into slavery, locked up, beaten, starved, and forcibly castrated. He reported that he was held in a brothel with 40 to 50 other boys, many of whom were also castrated. He escaped and made his way back to Nepal. Two non-governmental organizations, one that works with homosexuals in Nepal, and one that works to rescue and rehabilitate trafficked women and children, were co-operating to help and rescue these boys.\n\n\"Voluntary\" chemical or surgical castration has been in practice in many countries—reports are available from American and European countries in particular for over eighty years (chemical for circa thirty)—as an option for treatment for people who have broken laws of a sexual nature, allowing them to return to the community from otherwise lengthy detentions. The effectiveness and ethics of this treatment are heavily debated.\n\nA \"temporary\" \"chemical castration\" has been studied and developed as a preventive measure and punishment for several repeated sex crimes, such as rape or other sexually related violence. This has also been used to punish homosexuality, such as the punishment suffered by Alan Turing.\n\nIn modern times, the Czech Republic practices surgically castrating convicted sex offenders. According to the reports compiled by Council of Europe, a human-rights forum, the central European country physically castrated at least 94 prisoners in the 10 years up to April 2008. The Czech Republic defends this procedure as voluntary and effective. According to Dr. Martin Hollý, director of the Psychiatric Hospital Bohnice in Prague, none of the nearly 100 sex offenders who had been physically castrated had committed further offences. One serial offender stated that being castrated was the \"best decision\" he ever made: \"On the one hand you have to protect the potential victims and on the other hand I wanted to be protected from myself, I wanted to live like a normal person.\" Don Grubin, a professor at Newcastle University's Institute of Neuroscience who also runs a chemical castration program backed by the U.K.'s Ministry of Justice, was initially opposed to physical castration. After visiting the Czech Republic, however, he agreed that some form of castration might be of benefit to some sex offenders.\n\nIn nonhuman animals, the behavioral effects of gonad removal differ along lines of species and not sex, i.e. there are species where mating behavior ceases if the gonads are removed and other species where it does not cease, but removal of ovaries in females halt mating behavior in all of the same nonhuman animals in which male castration halts mating behavior. Therefore some scientists argue that the notion that castration/spaying would drastically reduce sex drive in human males but not in human females is zoologically nonsensical, citing that humans belong to the animal kingdom.\n\nSome criminologists argue that the apparently lower recidivism rates in castrated male sex offenders compared to non-castrated ones does not prove that it is a biological effect of castration (correlation does not equal causation) but can be explained by other factors. One suggested factor from game theory is that men who are willing to accept castration to get a shorter prison sentence are those who value freedom from prison higher than men who are not willing to pay the price for freedom in the form of their testicles. This hypothesis can explain their apparent lower recidivism as a result of working harder to conceal the evidence for their crimes, and argue that their parole is a danger of releasing offenders who only hide their crimes more efficiently and are not any less likely to commit new crimes. These criminologists also argue that police investigators treating castrated men as less likely to reoffend than non-castrated men may cause an investigation bias and self-fulfilling prophecy.\n\nCertain neurologists argue that while testosterone most likely increases internal sexual stimulation, a reduction of sex drive is unlikely to result in a reduction of inappropriate sexual behavior, as reduced internal stimulation from hormones merely increases the required external stimulation to reach orgasm. These neurologists cite that spreading of brain activity that stimulate more brain activity can increase their activity and tire the circuits out, the brain’s path to orgasm, enough to tire out with less external stimulation if the internal signal is stronger, and require more specific external stimulation to reach “satisfaction” if the internal signal is weaker. Therefore, they argue, a reduced testosterone level would make it more difficult, not easier, to manage remaining vestiges of sex drive by masturbating without the use of pornography or to otherwise get by with more socially and legally acceptable substitutes for desires that it would be unacceptable to act on. These neurologists also cite that many people, both men and women, find that higher levels of initial sexual arousal make it easier to masturbate to orgasm without the preferred type of external stimuli, as predicted by the hypothesis.\n\nIn Europe, when women were not permitted to sing in church or cathedral choirs in the Roman Catholic Church, boys were castrated to prevent their voices breaking at puberty and to develop a special high voice. The first documents mentioning \"castrati\" are Italian church records from the 1550s. In the baroque and classical music eras these singers were highly appreciated by opera composers as well. Mozart's \"Exultate Jubilate\", Allegri's \"Miserere\" and other pieces from this period now sung by sopranos and countertenors were written for \"castrati\". Some of the alto parts of Handel's Messiah were first sung by a \"castrato\". \"Castrati\" include Farinelli, Senesino, Carestini, and Caffarelli. The last true \"castrato\" was Alessandro Moreschi (1858–1922) who served in the Sistine Chapel Choir. It was not until the late 19th century that the Roman Catholic Church officially condemned the production of \"castrati\". In Modern times, the Mexican Javier Medina is the only professional opera singer that can perform as a castrato, since he suffered from an involuntary chemical castration, as a result from a cancer treatment that he had before he reached puberty.\n\nA number of religions have included castration as a central theme of their practice. These include:\n\n\nIn South Asia, many hijras live in well-defined, organized, all-hijra communities, led by a guru. The power of the hijras as a sexually ambiguous category can only be understood in the religious context of Hinduism. In some Hindu beliefs, ritual, and art, the power of the combined man/woman, or androgyne, is a frequent and significant theme. Bahuchara Mata, the main object of hijra veneration, is specifically associated with transvestism and transgenderism.\n\nWhile castration is not a major part of Christianity, Jesus himself acknowledged in a discussion about avoiding adultery and divorce that some are involuntarily castrated or born that way, while some others \"make themselves eunuchs\" willingly out of a desire to be chaste . Given Jesus' frequent use of metaphor and hyperbole, e.g. , the church has broadly discouraged any understanding of this passage as recommending literal \"self-castration\". That is consistent with Jesus' claims (as a rabbi) to uphold the Law given to Moses, e.g. , a Law which also discouraged literal castration . However, in his own comments Jesus had no condemnation for any of the above. In , a eunuch is baptized by Philip the Evangelist, demonstrating acceptance of castrated individuals in his church.\n\nThe first canon of the First Council of Nicaea in 325 AD forbid clergy members to voluntarily castrate themselves \"when in perfect health\", but freely accepted those who had been either castrated by others against their will, castrated due to a medical sickness or necessity, or those born as eunuchs.\n\nPaul, arguing against self-righteousness regarding circumcision in , says \"As for those agitators, I wish they would go the whole way and emasculate themselves!\" (NIV)\n\nWell-known Christian eunuchs (or alleged eunuchs) include:\n\n\nJudaism strictly forbids the castration of either humans or animals. Deuteronomy 23:1 expels castrated men from the assembly of Israel; they are forbidden to marry or if married must divorce from their wives (though permitting the castrated to marry or remain married to female converts to Judaism). The laws of castration including cases of irreversible or un-reversed vasectomy and all other cases where the flow of sperm is known to have been placed into a permanent state of dysfunction with either no hope or no desire to take the steps to repair. This interpretation reinforced by Isaiah 56:3–5 encourages eunuchs who follow after God's laws.\n\nAccording to Rashi, Kham (Ham) castrated his father Noah.\n\nIn Judaism, castrated animals are deemed unfit for sacrifice in the Temple in Jerusalem (). Castrated members of the priestly caste are forbidden to enter certain parts of the temple, to approach the altar, or to make sacrifices, although they could eat their share of the offerings and receive the priestly and Levite gifts (Lev. 21:16–24).\n\nIn Islam castration is considered a sin, whether one performs it on himself or on another. As Abdullah ibn Mas'ood said \"We were on a campaign with the Messenger of Allah (blessings and peace of Allah be upon him), and we had no women with us. We said: Why don’t we get ourselves castrated? But he forbade us to do that.\" The wisdom behind the prohibition on castration is that it is contrary to what the Lawgiver wants of increasing reproduction to ensure continuation of jihad against the disbelievers. Otherwise, if permission had been given for that, then many people would have done that, and reproduction would have ceased, and the numbers of Muslims would have become less as a result, and the numbers of disbelievers would have increased, and that is contrary to the purpose for which the Prophet (blessings and peace of Allah be upon him) was sent. \n\n\nA subject of castration who is altered before the onset of puberty will retain a high voice, non-muscular build, and small genitals. He may well be shorter than average, as the production of sex hormones in puberty—more specifically, estrogen via aromatization of testosterone—stops long bone growth. The person may not develop pubic hair and will have a small sex drive or none at all.\n\nCastrations after the onset of puberty will typically reduce the sex drive considerably or eliminate it altogether. Castrated people are automatically sterile, because the testes (for males) and ovaries (for females) produce sex cells needed for sexual reproduction. Once removed, the subject is infertile. The voice does not change. Some castrated people report mood changes, such as depression or a more serene outlook on life, although this might not be due to chemical changes but instead emotional changes due to the implications of the procedure. Body strength and muscle mass can decrease somewhat. Body hair may sometimes decrease. Castration prevents male pattern baldness if it is done before hair is lost. However, castration will not restore hair growth after hair has already been lost due to male pattern baldness.\n\nHistorically, many eunuchs who additionally underwent a penectomy reportedly suffered from urinary incontinence associated with the removal of the penis.\n\nWithout hormone replacement therapy (HRT), typical symptoms (similar to those experienced by menopausal women) include hot flashes, gradual bone-density loss resulting in osteopenia or osteoporosis, and potential weight gain or redistribution of body fat to the hips and chest. Replacement of testosterone in the form of gel, patches, or injections can largely reverse these effects, although breast enlargement has also been reported as a possible side effect of testosterone usage.\n\nA study conducted at a mental institution in Kansas, where a large number of male inmates had been castrated, found that the eunuchs lived an average of 14 years longer than the uncastrated men. A similar study of 81 historical eunuchs in Korea's royal court found a 14 to 19 year increase in lifespan compared to intact men of similar socioeconomic background; these eunuchs had a centenarian rate of over 3%.\n\nThe concept of castration plays an important role in psychoanalysis; \"see\", for example, castration anxiety.\n\nCastration (as a metaphor) also plays an important role in psychoanalytically-influenced literary theory, for example Harold Bloom's \"The Anxiety of Influence\".\n\nIn the Mexican thriller \"La casa del pelícano\", castration is shown as being connected to the Oedipus complex.\n\nIn the case of chemical castration, ongoing regular injections of anti-androgens are required. Chemical castration does not actually remove the testicles or ovaries of the subject, nor is it a form of sterilization.\n\nChemical castration seems to have a greater effect on bone density than physical castration. Since the development of teriparatide, this severe bone loss has been able to be reversed in nearly every case. At this time there is a limitation on the use of this medication to 24 months until the long-term use is better evaluated.\n\nWith the advent of chemical castration, physical castration is not generally recommended by the medical community unless medically necessary or desired, though some have undergone the procedure voluntarily.\n\nHumans commonly castrate domestic animals not intended for breeding.\nDomestic animals are usually castrated to avoid unwanted or uncontrolled reproduction; to reduce or prevent other manifestations of sexual behaviour such as defending the herd from humans and other threats, or intra-herd aggression (e.g. fighting between groups of entire (uncastrated) males of a species); or to reduce other consequences of sexual behavior that may make animal husbandry more difficult, such as boundary/fence/enclosure destruction when attempting to get to nearby females of the species.\n\nMale horses are usually castrated (gelded) using emasculators, because stallions are rather aggressive and troublesome. The same applies to male mules, although they are sterile. Male cattle are castrated to improve fattening and docility in feedlots or for use as oxen.\nBreeding individuals are kept entire and used for breeding: they may fetch higher prices when sold.\n\nLivestock may be castrated when used for food to increase growth or weight or both of individual male animals and because of the undesirable taste and odor of the meat from sexually mature males. In domestic pigs the taint, called boar taint, is caused by androstenone and skatole concentrations stored in the fat tissues of the animal after sexual maturity. Boar taint is only found in a small minority of pigs and can be controlled through breeding selection, diet and management. It is released when the fat is heated and has a distinct odor and flavor that is widely considered unpalatable to consumers. Consequently, in commercial meat production, male pigs are either castrated shortly after birth or slaughtered before they reach sexual maturity. Recent research in Brazil has shown that castration of pigs is unnecessary because most pigs do not have the 'boar taint'. This is due to many breeds of pigs simply not having the heredity for the boar taint and the fact that pigs are normally slaughtered at a young market weight.\n\nIn the case of pets, castration is usually called neutering, and is encouraged to prevent overpopulation of the community by unwanted animals, and to reduce certain diseases such as prostate disease and testicular cancer in male dogs (oophorectomy in female pets is often called spaying). Testicular cancer is rare in dogs, and also prostate problems are somewhat common in castrated male dogs when they get older. Neutered individuals have a much higher risk of developing prostate problems in comparison. Castrated male cats are more likely to develop an obstruction in their urethra, preventing them from urinating to some degree. A specialized vocabulary has arisen for neutered animals of given species:\n\nAn incompletely castrated male in livestock species (horse and cattle) is known as a \"rig\".\n\nThe term \"stag\" is used for a male animal castrated after the secondary sex characteristics have developed to such a point as to give him the appearance of sexual maturity.\nMethods of veterinary castration include instant surgical removal, the use of an elastrator tool to secure a band around the testicles that disrupts the blood supply, the use of a Burdizzo tool or emasculators to crush the spermatic cords and disrupt the blood supply, pharmacological injections and implants and immunological techniques to inoculate the animal against his own sexual hormones.\n\nCertain animals, like horses and swine, are usually surgically treated with a scrotal castration (which can be done with the animal standing while sedated and after local anesthetic has been applied), while others, like dogs and cats, are anesthetised and recumbent when surgically castrated with a pre-scrotal incision in the case of dogs, or a pre-scrotal or scrotal incision used for cats.\n\nIn veterinary practice an \"open\" castration refers to a castration in which the inguinal tunic is incised and not sutured. A \"closed\" castration refers to when the procedure is performed so that the inguinal tunic is sutured together after incision.\n\nSome parasitic nematodes chemically castrate their hosts. For example, \"Microphallus pseudopygmaeus\" chemically castrates its host, the snail \"Onoba aculeus\", and causes it to grow larger than normal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33780924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33780924", "title": "Chul Hyun Ahn", "text": "Chul Hyun Ahn\n\nChul Hyun Ahn is a South Korean artist who works primarily with light.\n\nAhn is a member of a group of young light artists including Olafur Eliasson, Ivan Navarro, Spencer Finch, and Leo Villareal. Ahn creates meditations on zen notions of the infinite and the void which distinguishes Ahn's oeuvre from other artists working with light. Ahn’s multiple on-going sculpture series including \"Forked Series\" and \"Tunnel Series\" systematically explore the limitations of space and optics.\n\nHilarie M. Sheets, contributing editor of \"ARTnews\" who also writes regularly for \"The New York Times\", \"Art In America\", and \"Art + Auction\", said his work is \"At once thrilling and ominous, it suggests a rabbit hole to another world—underwater, outer space, afterlife—or journey to the unknown, the kind of leap of faith involved in the artist’s own passage to an unfamiliar country and language.\" As a pillar in the resurgence of light art, \"Ahn creates sculptures utilizing light, color and illusion as physical representations of his investigation of infinite space.\" \n\nAhn lives and works in Baltimore, Maryland, where he is represented by C. Grimaldis Gallery.\n\nChul Hyun Ahn was born in Busan, South Korea. He received a Bachelor of Fine Arts from the Chugye University for the Arts in Seoul. In 1997 he moved to the United States and received a Master of Fine Arts from the Mount Royal School at the Maryland Institute College of Art in Baltimore in 2002.\n\nMr. Grimaldis first saw Ahn's work at his 2002 MFA thesis exhibition at the Maryland Institute College of Art. Soon after, he had his first exhibition with C. Grimaldis Gallery in the winter of 2003 in a solo exhibition titled \"Infinity - Emptiness\" which featured six light sculptures. Since 2003 Chul Hyun Ahn has exhibited extensively nationally and internationally, and his work can be found in numerous important private and public collections.\n\nIn a review of Ahn's 2008 C. Grimaldis Gallery solo exhibition, \"Phenomena: Visual Echo\" art critic Cara Ober wrote: \"What does infinity look like? Chul Hyun Ahn's show of thirteen mirrored light boxes (all 2008) answered this question over and over, in subtly different ways. The constructions of plywood and fluorescent light with exposed electrical cords unavoidably recall Donald Judd and Dan Flavin, but Ahn uses these industrial materials to a different end. Rather than clarifying visual phenomena without artifice, Ahn seeks to mystify.\" \n\n2011\n\n2010\n\n2009\n\n2008\n\n2007\n\n2006\n\n2005\n\n2004\n\n2003\n\n2002\n\n2001\n\n1999\n\n1996\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15402343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15402343", "title": "Civil confinement", "text": "Civil confinement\n\nIn the United States, civil confinement is a term for the formal legal process by which persons convicted of certain sexual offenses (generally violent sex offenders) may be subject to involuntary commitment upon completion of a prison sentence.\n\nAlthough the exact details of the legal process may vary from state to state, the United States Supreme Court reviewed and upheld as constitutional a statutory process adopted in Kansas. See \"Kansas v. Hendricks\", 521 U.S. 346 (1997). There, civil confinement proceedings could be initiated against \"any person who has been convicted of or charged with a sexually violent offense and who suffers from a mental abnormality or personality disorder which makes the person likely to engage in the predatory acts of sexual violence.\" Many of those terms were themselves defined in the statute, including \"mental abnormality,\" defined as \"congenital or acquired condition affecting the emotional or volitional capacity which predisposes the person to commit sexually violent offenses in a degree constituting such person a menace to the health and safety of others.\" \"Id\".\n\nIf a prison identified an inmate who was about to be released but potentially fit this definition, the prison authorities were required to notify the local prosecutor of the impending release. The prosecutor was then required to decide whether to petition for commitment. The court would then have to determine whether probable cause existed to support the inmate's status as a \"sexually violent predator,\" and, upon such a determination, order the inmate to be psychologically evaluated. The psychological evaluation would then form the basis of a further trial to determine whether the inmate qualified as a violent sexual predator. Upon such a determination, the inmate would be subject to involuntary commitment at a medical facility until such time as his mental abnormality had changed and it was safe to release him.\" Id\". at 353. The court would then be required to conduct an annual review of the determination, and the inmate would always be allowed to petition for freedom under the same standards. The Supreme Court concluded that this process met previously established standards of constitutional substantive due process governing voluntary confinement, did not constitute double jeopardy because the proceedings were civil rather than criminal, and was not an ex post facto law for the same reason. \"Id\". at 353-371. In a following case, the United States Supreme Court clarified that the government must demonstrate that the inmate has at least a serious lack of ability to control his behavior. \"Kansas v. Crane\" 534 U.S. 407 (2002). The Supreme Court has also determined that Congress has the authority to pass a similar law affecting federal prisoners. \"United States v. Comstock\", 560 U.S. 126 (2010).\n\nTwenty states have civil commitment facilities, as of 2018.\n\nAs with civil commitment generally, civil confinement is a controversial implementation of state power. Detractors point to the prospect of indefinite detention without due process of law. Proponents cite public safety.\n\nState legislatures who have decided to adopt civil confinement statutes have expressed the intent of the laws in their enactments. One example is the state of Washington, which explained:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11987570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11987570", "title": "Cognitive styles analysis", "text": "Cognitive styles analysis\n\nCognitive styles analysis (CSA) was developed by Richard J. Riding and is the most frequently used computerized measure of cognitive styles. Although CSA is not well known in North American institutions, it is quite popular among European universities and organizations.\n\nUnlike many other cognitive style measures, CSA has been the subject of much empirical investigation. Three experiments reported by showed the reliability of CSA to be low. Considering the theoretical strength of CSA, and unsuccessful earlier attempts to create a more reliable parallel form of it , a revised version was made to improve its validity and reliability.\n\n"}
{"id": "14515006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14515006", "title": "Crémieux Decree", "text": "Crémieux Decree\n\nThe Crémieux Decree () was a law that granted French citizenship to the majority of the Jewish population in French Algeria (around 35,000), signed by the Government of National Defense on 24 October 1870 during the Franco-Prussian War. It was named after French-Jewish lawyer and Minister of Justice Adolphe Crémieux, who had founded the Alliance Israélite Universelle a decade earlier.\n\nIt was signed as Decree 136 of 1870 by Adolphe Crémieux as Minister of Justice, Léon Gambetta as Minister of the Interior, Alexandre Glais-Bizoin and as a naval and colonial minister. The ministers were members of the military government in Tours, the Gouvernement de la Défense nationale, since France was still at war, and the provisional government had its seat in Tours.\n\nAt the same time the naturalization regime in French Algeria was confirmed in Decree 137, determining that Muslims are not French citizens in the French colony of Algeria. The aim was to maintain the status quo, the sovereignty of France over its North African colonies. Five years later, in 1875, this was confirmed in the framework of the Code de l'indigénat.\n\nThe decree allowed for native Jews to automatically become French citizens while Muslim Arabs and Berbers were excluded and remained under the second-class indigenous status outlined in the Code de l'Indigénat. They could, on paper, request French citizenship, but requests were very seldom accepted. That set the scene for deteriorating relations between the Muslim and Jewish communities and proved fateful in the Algerian War of Independence, after which the vast majority of the French Jews of Algeria emigrated to France.\n\nDecrees 136 and 137 were published in Official Gazette of the City Tours (\"Bulletin officielle de la ville de Tours\") on 7 November 1870.\n\nFrom 1940 to 1943, the Crémieux Decree was abolished under the Vichy regime.\n"}
{"id": "39749075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39749075", "title": "Cultura (journal)", "text": "Cultura (journal)\n\nCultura: International Journal of Philosophy of Culture and Axiology is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal that was established in 2004 and covers philosophical work exploring different values and cultural phenomena. The journal is published in print format by Peter Lang. Online access to all issues of \"Cultura\" from 2005 to the present is provided by the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\n\"Cultura\" is abstracted and indexed in Arts and Humanities Citation Index, Humanities International Complete, Humanities International Index, International Bibliography of Periodical Literature, International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, MLA International Bibliography, Naviga, Primo Central Index, The Philosopher's Index, PhilPapers, Philosophy Research Index, Scopus, and TOC Premier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "615363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615363", "title": "Darśana", "text": "Darśana\n\nDarśana (Sanskrit: दर्शन, lit. \"view, sight\") is the auspicious sight of a deity or a holy person. The term also refers to six orthodox schools of Hindu philosophy and their literature on spirituality and soteriology.\n\nThe word, also in the forms of \"darśana\" or \"darshanam\", comes from Sanskrit दर्शन, from \"dṛś\", \"to see\", vision, apparition or glimpse.\n\n\"Darśana\" is described as an \"auspicious sight\" of a holy person, which bestows merit on the person who is seen. \"Sight\" here means seeing or beholding, and/or being seen or beheld.\n\nIt is most commonly used for theophany, \"manifestation / visions of the divine\", in Hindu worship, e.g. of a deity (especially in image form), or a very holy person or artifact. One can receive \"darśana\" or a glimpse of the deity in the temple, or from a great saintly person, such as a great guru.\n\nThe term \"darśana\" also refers to the six systems of thought, called \"darśanam\", that comprise classical Hindu philosophy. The term therein implies how each of these six systems distinctively look at things and the scriptures in Indian philosophies. The six orthodox Hindu \"darśana\" are Nyaya, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Yoga, Mīmāṃsā, and Vedanta. Buddhism and Jainism are examples of non-Hindu \"darśana\"s.\n\nOn the significance of \"darśana\" in Mahayana thought, Paul Harrison writes: \"By the second century CE... the vision of the Buddha (\"buddha-darśana\") and the accompanying hearing of the Dharma (\"dharma-śravaṇa\") are represented as a transformation experience of decisive importance for practitioners, be they who have renounced (mundane life) \"ascetics\" or householders.\"\n\nThe Abhidharma, collections of systematic summaries of the sutras, mention \"Darśana-citta, i.e.\" visions.\n\nIndian Mahayana philosophers Vasubandhu and Asanga acknowledged five paths to liberation, of which the third is \"darśana-marga\", the \"path of seeing\".\n\nNagarjuna, a prominent philosopher of the Madhyamaka school of Mahayana Buddhism, wrote that the wise person perceives \"tattva-darśana,\" true reality.\n\n\"Darśana\" also sometimes has a more mundane meaning. For example, Sivananda Saraswati wrote in his book \"The Practice of Brahmacharya\" that one of the eight aspects of brahmacharya (celibacy) is not to look lustfully at women: \"You should carefully avoid... Darshana or looking at women with passionate resolve\".\n\nScholar of religion Richard H. Davis has said that \"darśana\" (viewpoint, philosophical school) is one of three terms in classical Indian discourse that could be considered roughly analogous to what today's English-speakers understand as \"religion.\" The other two terms are \"dharma\" (duty, morality, a code of proper conduct) and \"marga\" (route, spiritual path). According to Davis, \"most Hindu texts accepted that religious paths (\"marga\") are relative to the points of view (\"darśana\") and moral responsibilities (\"dharma\") of practitioners, whose individual circumstances may make one or another course of action more appropriate in their particular situations.\"\n\nPoet Gary Snyder has given a naturalistic meaning to \"darśana\": \nIn Sikh culture, folios or manuscripts that depict all ten Gurus on a single page are called \"darśana\" paintings, simply because they offer a vision of all ten sacred Gurus in one glance.\n\n"}
{"id": "21490919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490919", "title": "Deep ecology", "text": "Deep ecology\n\nDeep ecology is an ecological and environmental philosophy promoting the inherent worth of living beings regardless of their instrumental utility to human needs, plus a radical restructuring of modern human societies in accordance with such ideas. \n\nDeep ecology argues that the natural world is a subtle balance of complex inter-relationships in which the existence of organisms is dependent on the existence of others within ecosystems. Human interference with or destruction of the natural world poses a threat therefore not only to humans but to all organisms constituting the natural order.\n\nDeep ecology's core principle is the belief that the living environment as a whole should be respected and regarded as having certain inalienable legal rights to live and flourish, independent of its instrumental benefits for human use. Deep ecology is often framed in terms of the idea of a much broader sociality; it recognizes diverse communities of life on Earth that are composed not only through biotic factors but also, where applicable, through ethical relations, that is, the valuing of other beings as more than just resources. It describes itself as \"deep\" because it regards itself as looking more deeply into the actual reality of humanity's relationship with the natural world arriving at philosophically more profound conclusions than that of the prevailing view of ecology as a branch of biology. The movement does not subscribe to anthropocentric environmentalism (which is concerned with conservation of the environment only for exploitation by and for human purposes) since deep ecology is grounded in a quite different set of philosophical assumptions. Deep ecology takes a more holistic view of the world human beings live in and seeks to apply to life the understanding that the separate parts of the ecosystem (including humans) function as a whole. This philosophy provides a foundation for the environmental, ecology, and green movements and has fostered a new system of environmental ethics advocating wilderness preservation, human population control, and simple living.\nIn his original 1972/73 deep ecology paper, Arne Næss claims the deep ecology movement arose from scientists – ecologists – who were out in the field studying the biodiversity and wild ecosystems throughout the world. They were also doing the work of philosophers, laying the foundations for the Age of Ecology and a new ecological worldview to replace the anthropocentric, mastery of Nature, and modernist worldview arising in the 17th and 18th centuries. Three of the most influential ecological spokespersons of the 1960s were Rachel Carson, David Brower, and Paul R. Ehrlich. Some consider the publication of Rachel Carson's book \"Silent Spring\" (1962) as the beginning of the contemporary, long-range deep ecology movement. When her book appeared there was a long-standing movement for conservation of land and resources, as well as support for creating parks and other areas devoted to preserving wilderness and spectacular nature. Carson's writings were especially influential because they clearly showed how human well-being depends on the condition of whole biotic communities. She explained in practical terms how living beings are interrelated within ecosystems. She explained how pesticides used to control mosquitoes and other insects led to declines in some bird populations. \"Silent Spring\" helped show how complex food webs and networks of biotic relationships function. Since humans are at the top of many food chains, exposure to chemicals becomes more concentrated as these move up the chains. The chemicals also can be stored in human tissues and gradually accumulate over time, adversely affecting health. Carson showed the need for deep changes in human practices and ways of living.\n\nThe 1960s was a decade of vigorous social activism in the United States, Canada, Western Europe, and Australia. Some activism focused on war and peace and the issue of nuclear weapons. A well-known early environmental organization started with a focus on nuclear tests and their environmental hazards. Some people in British Columbia, Canada, were opposed to the test of a nuclear weapon by the US government on Amchitka Island. They hired a fishing vessel and sailed towards the nuclear test site in protest. This action led to the founding of Greenpeace, which became more identified with environmental issues as time went by. These great movements were further catalyzed by the now iconic images of the whole Earth floating in space taken during the return of the Apollo space missions from their journey to the moon. Among the astronauts that witnessed seeing the whole Earth firsthand was Edgar D. Mitchell, who in 1971, during the return mission of Apollo 14, had an epiphany that what is needed to solve the eco-crisis \"is a transformation of consciousness\".\n\nProponents of deep ecology believe that the world does not exist as a resource to be freely exploited by humans. If material goods do not guarantee happiness beyond a very moderate level, and over-consumption is endangering the biosphere, defining a new non-consumptive paradigm of well-being seems primordial, such a paradigm would be non-acquisitive/non-consumerist and non-hierarchical in relation to our place on Earth. The ethics of deep ecology hold that the survival of any part is dependent upon the well-being of the whole. Proponents of deep ecology offer an eight-tier platform to elucidate their claims:\n\nThese principles can be reduced to three simple propositions:\n\nThe phrase \"deep ecology\" was coined by the Norwegian philosopher Arne Næss in 1973. Næss rejected the idea that beings can be ranked according to their relative value. For example, judgments on whether an animal has an eternal soul, whether it uses reason or whether it has consciousness (or indeed higher consciousness) have all been used to justify the ranking of the human animal as superior to other animals. Næss states that from an ecological point of view \"the right of all forms [of life] to live is a universal right which cannot be quantified. No single species of living being has more of this particular right to live and unfold than any other species.\"\n\nThis metaphysical idea is elucidated in Warwick Fox's claim that humanity and all other beings are \"aspects of a single unfolding reality\". As such deep ecology would support the view of Aldo Leopold in his book \"A Sand County Almanac\" that humans are \"plain members of the biotic community\". They also would support Leopold's land ethic: \"a thing is right when it tends to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the biotic community. It is wrong when it tends otherwise.\" Daniel Quinn, in his novel \"Ishmael\", showed that an anthropocentric myth underlies our current view of the world.\n\nThe ecological problems faced by the world today are partly due to the loss of traditional knowledge, values, and ethics of behavior that celebrate the intrinsic value and sacredness of the natural world and that give the preservation of Nature prime importance. Correspondingly, the assumption of human superiority to other life forms, as if we were granted royalty status over Nature - the idea that Nature is mainly here to serve human will and purpose - receives a radical critique in deep ecology. Deep ecology developed a response to the anthropocentric view and several different actors played an important historical role in its development. Prominent among them was Joseph W. Meeker, who in 1973 told George Sessions about Arne Næss, whom Meeker knew personally. As Warwick Fox related, \"One of the things that initially interested Sessions about Næss was Næss's strong interest in, and innovative approach to, the work of Spinoza. Sessions says that he had himself 'arrived at Spinoza as the answer to the process of teaching history of philosophy by about 1972 and independently of being in contact with Næss.'\" Sessions therefore wrote to Næss at this time, beginning a lifelong association. Meeker's (1972, 1997) book \"The Comedy of Survival: Studies in Literary Ecology\" emerged through the work of scholars seeking an environmental ethic. That book represents Meeker's founding work in literary ecology and ecocriticism, which demonstrates the relationship between the literary arts and scientific ecology, especially humankind's consideration of comedy and tragedy. It reminds readers that adaptive behaviors (comedy) promote survival, whereas tragedy estranges from other life forms. This thesis rests on Meeker's study of comparative literature, his work with biologist Konrad Lorenz, and his work as a field ecologist in the National Park service in Alaska, Oregon, and California.\n\nDeep ecology offers a philosophical basis for environmental advocacy which may, in turn, guide human activity against perceived self-destruction. Deep ecology and environmentalism hold that the science of ecology shows that ecosystems can absorb only limited change by humans or other dissonant influences. Further, both hold that the actions of modern civilization threaten global ecological well-being. Ecologists have described change and stability in ecological systems in various ways, including homeostasis, dynamic equilibrium, and \"flux of nature\". Regardless of which model is most accurate, environmentalists contend that massive human economic activity has pushed the biosphere far from its \"natural\" state through reduction of biodiversity, climate change, and other influences. As a consequence, civilization is causing mass extinction at a rate between 100 species a day and possibly 140,000 species a year, which is 10,000 times the background rate of extinction. Deep ecologists hope to influence social and political change through their philosophy. Næss has proposed, as Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke writes, \"that the earth’s human population should be reduced to about 100 million.\"\n\nEcology in the narrow sense refers to the biological science of ecology. However, ecological paradigms and principles are being developed and applied in almost all disciplines, and these paradigms have to do with the way we approach understanding the relationships and inter-connections within and between living beings which give to each its special place and identity. Human ecology, e.g., must certainly take account of the role of our subjective lives and spiritual needs, as well as our biological ones, in terms of their ecological effects. Ecology in this sense is not a reductionist undertaking, but a movement toward a more whole (or holistic) vision and understanding of world processes. Deep ecology seeks to look into all levels of existence and might be viewed as radical by some; for them a more anthropocentric view is appropriate because it put humans at the center. Learning how to live in harmony with our surroundings is beneficial because stopping the global extinction crisis and achieving true ecological sustainability will require rethinking our values as a society. In that way education seems to be the best way to start. Sustainability education aims to help learners understand their interconnectedness with all life, to become creative problem solvers and active citizens, and to engage personally and intellectually in shaping our common future. Experiential learning and critical pedagogy are central to providing opportunities for learners to engage in transformative sustainability learning. The “Environment” broadly defined, remains somewhat neglected within development studies, despite a substantial increase in contributions to the field over the fifteen years since 2000. Undergraduate and postgraduate courses (with some notable exceptions) often “add on” environmental issues as special lectures or modules, and there remains a tendency for those who are grounded in the material and discursive struggles that define the discipline to consider the environment as an exotic special interest, a problem that manifests itself in societies that have the leisure to care about the natural world. Development of a modern education model promoting patriotism and civic responsibility, active social position and healthy lifestyle is closely linked to the development of environmental responsibility in the younger generation. Development of environmentally responsible personality in individual is of particular importance for graduates of educational institutions. Environmental education could be integrated in different curriculum in most fields: education for sustainable development in the context of ecopedagogy.\n\nEcopedagogy calls for the remaking of capitalist practices and seeks to re-engage democracy to include multispecies interests in the face of our current global ecological crisis. It does so by using different ideas that challenge the way we see education. In Critical Pedagogy, Ecoliteracy and Planetary Crisis: The Ecopedagogy Movement, Richard Kahn (2010) reformulates Herbert Marcuse’s critical theories of society, and supports the kind of education that seizes the power of radical environmental activists and supports the earth democracy in which multispecies interests are represented. The destruction of habitats and threats to biodiversity resulting from expansion of human population and consumption is rarely addressed in a way that confronts students with the necessity to consider moral implications of such destruction. Pedagogically, a return to education associated with significant life experiences, such as hiking in wilderness areas as a youth; as well as strategically significant education, action competence, social learning, and variations and combinations of those and many other pedagogical approaches developed in the past 40 years. Some of these pedagogical approaches have been disputed—for example, the belief that experiencing environment first hand is an essential component of engaging people in conservation has been disputed by arguments that these education efforts have been informed by behaviorist socio-psychology models that assumed a linear causality between education experience and pro-environmental behavior. Rather, the critics have argued that people’s environmental behaviors are too complex and contextually dependent to be captured by a simple casual model. The process of environmental education of schoolchildren has the following methodological characteristics:\n\n\n\nIn higher education, the analysis of students’ individual writing assignments after viewing films/documentaries presents an interesting case of using radical ‘messages’ within the aims of environmental education in order to trigger both student’s engagement and critical thinking. The case study “If a Tree Falls and Everybody Hears the Sound” provides an example of how environmental advocacy and the objective of pluralistic education can be combined as mutually supportive means of achieving both democratic learning in which students’ individual opinions are seen as extremely valuable, and simultaneously provide an example of the type of ecopedagogy that supports learning for environmental sustainability. The role of environmental advocacy can be crucially important if the interests of all planetary citizens—and not just one species—are to be taken seriously.\n\nIn her book \"Wild Children — Domesticated Dreams: Civilization and the Birth of Education\", Layla AbdelRahim argues that the current institutions responsible for the construction and transmission of civilized epistemology are driven by the destructive premises at the foundation of civilization and human predatory culture. In order to return to a viable socio-environmental culture, AbdelRahim calls for the rewilding of our anthropology (i.e. our place among other species) and of pedagogical culture, which in civilization is based on the same domestication methods of other animals.\n\nNæss and Fox do not claim to use logic or induction to derive the philosophy directly from scientific ecology but rather hold that scientific ecology directly implies the metaphysics of deep ecology, including its ideas about the self and further, that deep ecology finds scientific underpinnings in the fields of ecology and system dynamics.\n\nIn their 1985 book \"Deep Ecology\", Bill Devall and George Sessions describe a series of sources of deep ecology. They include the science of ecology itself, and cite its major contribution as the rediscovery in a modern context that \"everything is connected to everything else.\" They point out that some ecologists and natural historians, in addition to their scientific viewpoint, have developed a deep ecological consciousness—for some a political consciousness and at times a spiritual consciousness. This is a perspective beyond the strictly human viewpoint, beyond anthropocentrism. Among the scientists they mention specifically are Rachel Carson, Aldo Leopold, John Livingston, Paul R. Ehrlich and Barry Commoner, together with Frank Fraser Darling, Charles Sutherland Elton, Eugene Odum and Paul Sears.\n\nA further scientific source for deep ecology adduced by Devall and Sessions is the \"new physics\", which they describe as shattering Descartes's and Newton's vision of the universe as a machine explainable in terms of simple linear cause and effect. They propose that Nature is in a state of constant flux and reject the idea of observers as existing independent of their environment. They refer to Fritjof Capra's \"The Tao of Physics\" and \"The Turning Point\" for their characterisation of how the new physics leads to metaphysical and ecological views of interrelatedness, which, according to Capra, should make deep ecology a framework for future human societies. Devall and Sessions also credit the American poet and social critic Gary Snyder—with his devotion to Buddhism, Native American studies, the outdoors, and alternative social movements—as a major voice of wisdom in the evolution of their ideas.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis was also an influence on the deep ecology movement.\n\nThe central spiritual tenet of deep ecology is that the human species is a part of the Earth, not separate from it, and as such human existence is dependent on the diverse organisms within the natural world each playing a role in the natural economy of the biosphere. Coming to an awareness of this reality involves a transformation of an outlook that presupposes humanity's superiority over the natural world. This self-realisation or \"re-earthing\" is used for an individual to intuitively gain an ecocentric perspective. The notion is based on the idea that the more we \"expand the self\" to identify with \"others\" (people, animals, ecosystems), the more we realize ourselves. Transpersonal psychology has been used by Warwick Fox to support this idea. Deep ecology has influenced the development of contemporary ecospirituality.\n\nA number of spiritual and philosophical traditions including Native American, Buddhist and Jain are drawn upon in a continuing critique of the philosophical assumptions of the modern European mind which has enabled and led to what is seen as an increasingly unsustainable level of disregard towards the rights and needs of the natural world and its ability to continue to support human life. In relation to the Judeo-Christian tradition, Næss offers the following criticism: \"The arrogance of stewardship [as found in the Bible] consists in the idea of superiority which underlies the thought that we exist to watch over nature like a highly respected middleman between the Creator and Creation.\" This theme had been expounded in Lynn Townsend White, Jr.'s 1967 article \"The Historical Roots of Our Ecological Crisis\", in which however he also offered as an alternative Christian view of man's relation to nature that of Saint Francis of Assisi, who he says spoke for the equality of all creatures, in place of the idea of man's domination over creation. Næss' further criticizes the reformation's view of creation as property to be put into maximum productive use: a view used frequently in the past to exploit and dispossess native populations. Many Protestant sects today regard the Bible's call for man to have stewardship of the earth as a call for the care for creation, rather than for exploitation.\n\nThe original Christian teachings on property support the Franciscan/stewardship interpretation of the Bible. Against this view, Martin Luther condemned church ownership of lands because \"they did not want to use that property in an economically productive fashion. At best they used it to produce prayers. Luther, and other Reformation leaders insisted that it should be used, not to relieve men from the necessity of working, but as a tool for making more goods. The attitude of the Reformation was practically, \"not prayers, but production.\" And production, not for consumption, but for more production.\" This justification was offered to support secular takings of church endowments and properties.\n\nAnthropologist Layla AbdelRahim sees the root of the anthropogenic degradation of the biosphere in the anthropology that constructs the human animal as the supreme predator. The ontological explanation offered for Human Supremacy by both science and religion, she says, alienate the human being from the community of life and allow for an immoral control and destruction of the wilderness, which, according to her contains the spirit and intelligence of life.\n\nArne Næss, who first wrote about the idea of deep ecology, from the early days of developing this outlook conceived Baruch Spinoza as a philosophical source.\n\nOthers have followed Næss' inquiry, including Eccy de Jonge, in \"Spinoza and Deep Ecology: Challenging Traditional Approaches to Environmentalism\", and Brenden MacDonald, in \"Spinoza, Deep Ecology, and Human Diversity—Realization of Eco-Literacies\".\n\nOne of the topical centres of inquiry connecting Spinoza to Deep Ecology is \"self-realization.\" See Arne Næss in \"The Shallow and the Deep, Long-Range Ecology movement\" and \"Spinoza and the Deep Ecology Movement\" for discussion on the role of Spinoza's conception of self-realization and its link to deep ecology.\n\nAnimal rights activists state that for an entity to require rights and protection intrinsically, it must have interests. Deep ecology is criticised for assuming that living things such as plants, for example, have their own interests as they are manifested by the plant's behavior—for instance, self-preservation being considered an expression of a will to live. Deep ecologists claim to \"identify\" with non-human nature, and in doing so, deny those who claim that non-human (or non-sentient) lifeforms' needs or interests are nonexistent or unknowable. The criticism is that the interests that a deep ecologist attributes to non-human organisms such as survival, reproduction, growth, and prosperity are really human interests. This is sometimes construed as a pathetic fallacy or anthropomorphism, in which \"the earth is endowed with 'wisdom', wilderness equates with 'freedom', and life forms are said to emit 'moral' qualities.\"\n\nDeep ecology is criticised for its claim to being \"deeper\" than alternative theories, which by implication are \"shallow\". When Arne Næss coined the term \"deep ecology\", he compared it favourably with \"shallow environmentalism\" which he criticized for its utilitarian and anthropocentric attitude to nature and for its materialist and consumer-oriented outlook. Against this is Arne Næss's own view that the \"depth\" of deep ecology resides in the persistence of its penetrative questioning, particularly in asking \"Why?\" when faced with initial answers.\n\nWriter William D. Grey believes that developing a non-anthropocentric set of values is \"a hopeless quest\". He seeks an improved \"shallow\" view, writing, \"What's wrong with shallow views is not their concern about the well-being of humans, but that they do not really consider enough in what that well-being consists. We need to develop an enriched, fortified anthropocentric notion of human interest to replace the dominant short-term, sectional and self-regarding conception.\"\n\nSome critics, particularly social ecologist Murray Bookchin, have interpreted deep ecology as being hateful toward humanity, due in part to the characterization of humanity by some deep ecologists, such as David Foreman of Earth First!, as a pathological infestation on the Earth. Bookchin\ntherefore asserts that \"deep ecology, formulated largely by privileged male white academics, has managed to bring sincere naturalists like Paul Shepard into the same company as patently antihumanist and macho mountain men like David Foreman who preach a gospel that humanity is some kind of cancer in the world of life.\" Bookchin mentions that some, like Foreman, defend seemingly anti-human measures, such as severe population control and the claim regarding the Third World that \"the best thing would be to just let nature seek its own balance, to let the people there just starve\". However, Bookchin himself later admitted that \"statements made by Earth First! activists are not to be confused with those made by deep ecology theorists\". Ecophilosopher Warwick Fox similarly \"warns critics not to commit the fallacy of 'misplaced misanthropy.' That is, just because deep ecology criticizes an arrogant anthropocentrism does \"not\" mean that deep ecology is misanthropic.\" Likewise, \"The Deep Ecology Movement: An Introductory Anthology\" attempts to clarify that \"deep ecologists have been the strongest critics of anthropocentrism, so much so that they have often been accused of a mean-spirited misanthropy\"; however, \"deep ecology is actually vitally concerned with humans realizing their best potential\" and \"is explicit in offering a vision of an alternative way of living that is joyous and enlivening.\"\n\nBookchin's second major criticism is that deep ecology fails to link environmental crises with authoritarianism and hierarchy. Social ecologists like him believe that environmental problems are firmly rooted in the manner of human social interaction, and suggest that deep ecologists fail to recognise the potential for human beings to solve environmental issues through a change of cultural attitudes. According to Bookchin, it is a social reconstruction alone that \"can spare the biosphere from virtual destruction.\" Though some deep ecologists may reject the argument that ecological behavior is rooted in the social paradigm (which, according to their view, would be an anthropocentric fallacy), others in fact embrace this argument, such as the adherents to the deep ecologist movement Deep Green Resistance.\n\nDaniel Botkin has likened deep ecology to its antithesis, the wise use movement, when he says that they both \"misunderstand scientific information and then arrive at conclusions based on their misunderstanding, which are in turn used as justification for their ideologies. Both begin with an ideology and are political and social in focus.\" Elsewhere, though, he asserts that deep ecology must be taken seriously in the debate about the relationship between humans and nature because it challenges the fundamental assumptions of Western philosophy. Botkin has also criticized Næss's restatement and reliance upon the balance of nature idea and the perceived contradiction between his argument that all species are morally equal and his disparaging description of pioneering species.\n\nSome writers have misunderstood Næss, taking his ecosophy T, with its self-realization norm, as something meant to characterize the whole deep ecology movement as part of a single philosophy called \"deep ecology\". Næss was not doing either of these. He emphasized that movements cannot be precisely defined, but only roughly characterized by very general statements. They are often united internationally by means of such principles as found in the United Nations (UN) Earth Charter (1980), and in UN documents about basic human rights. Næss was doing something more subtle than many thought. He was not putting forth a single worldview and philosophy of life that everyone should adhere to in support of the international ecology movement. Instead, he was making an empirical claim based on overwhelming evidence that global social movements, from the grass roots up, consist of people with very diverse religious, philosophical, cultural, and personal orientations. Nonetheless, they can agree on certain courses of action and certain broad principles, especially at the international level. As supporters of a given movement, they can treat one another with mutual respect. Because of these misunderstandings Næss introduced an apron diagram to clearly illustrate his subtle distinctions. The apron diagram is meant to illustrate logical, as distinct from genetic, relations between views and their connection with social movements, policies and practical actions. By \"logical relations\" this means verbally articulated relations between the premises and conclusions. There is collective cooperation on global concerns, and yet a great variety of ultimate premises from which each person or group acts locally. Within global movements there is diversity at the local level because each place and community is different and must adapt to its unique setting. Thus, Næss stressed that his ecosophy T is not meant to hold for everyone, since it is tailored to his very modest lifestyle suitable to a place such as Tvergastein. The ultimate premises for his whole view might be conceptually incompatible with those in someone else's whole views. But even if this is true, they could both support the platform principles of the deep ecology movement and other social-political global movements, such as for peace and social justice. In recognizing the principle that all living beings have intrinsic worth, there is an acknowledgement that they are good for their own sake. This does not mean committing to biocentric equality or egalitarianism between species. Within the vast diversity of living beings, there are complex relationships the range of which is predation, competition, cooperation, and symbiosis. Many think that symbiosis and complementarity are important values to embrace as they are consistent with global cooperation, community life, and support for the deep ecology movement platform.\n\nEcofeminism and deep ecology have been in dialogue for some time now, and while the debate between them has been very fruitful over the years, the exploration of their relationship remains important. As valuable as our individually reconnecting with the natural world may be, and as much as such experiences should be encouraged, some have questioned whether this approach is sufficient, given the magnitude of the threat that human encroachment poses to the nonhuman world. With this in mind, the call has been made for a broader challenge to the dominant culture than deep ecological experience may offer. This call has come most forcefully from another school of environmental ethics: ecofeminism. While sharing with deep ecologists a general concern for biocentrism and an appreciation for personal interaction with nonhuman reality, ecofeminists have also offered some harsh criticism of Leopold, Callicott, and advocates of the deep ecological approach, as well as extensionists like Singer and Regan. Like deep ecology, ecofeminism is not a singular theory, and covers a broad range of thought; in rough terms, its criticism of other forms of nature ethics is grounded in an attempt to synthesize the insights of environmental ethics and animal advocacy with a feminist analysis of Western ethics and culture. The resulting attempt to rethink our relationship to the animal and nature casts speciesism and anthropocentrism as symptoms of a deeper patriarchy in the Western tradition that needs to be deconstructed before a successful animal ethic can be produced. As Josephine Donovan details, there is evidence to suggest a strong emotional and philosophical affinity among Anglo-American antivivisectionists and suffragettes, who viewed their causes as common responses to Enlightenment rationalism and scientism, and jointly sought a “feminizing” of culture that would liberate human and animal alike. Ecological feminism began as a critique and rejection of the western cultural worldview with its overemphasis on rationality, and linearity. It argued against a Cartesian science which elevated the material and objective above the spiritual and the subjective as appropriate ways of knowing the world. Like deep ecology, ecological feminism stresses the importance of experience, and personal experience at that. However, the ecofeminists seem to be talking about experience in a sense more related to bioregionalism than deep ecology.\n\nBoth ecofeminism and deep ecology put forward a new conceptualization of the self. Some ecofeminists, such as Marti Kheel, argue that self-realization and identification with all nature places too much emphasis on the whole, at the expense of the independent being. Similarly, some ecofeminists place more emphasis on the problem of androcentrism rather than anthropocentrism. To others, like Karen J. Warren, the domination of women is tethered conceptually and historically to the domination of nature. Ecofeminism denies abstract individualism and embraces the interconnectedness of the living world; relationships, including our relationship with non-human nature, are not extrinsic to our identity and are essential in defining what it means to be human. Warren argues that hierarchical classifications in general, such as racism or speciesism, are all forms of discrimination and are no different from sexism. Thus, anthropocentrism is simply another form of discrimination as a result of our flawed value structure and should be abolished.\n\nExperiential deep ecologist Joanna Macy has attempted to avoid these conflicts and criticisms through her Work that Reconnects. By focussing deep ecology on the experience of the consciousness of personal depth within the participant, she speaks of \"the greening of the self\", which is part of the epochal journey of our times from an egoic or egotistical self to an ecological self.\n\nParallels have been drawn between deep ecology and other philosophies, in particular those of the animal rights movement, Earth First!, Deep Green Resistance, and anarcho-primitivism.\n\nPeter Singer's 1975 book \"Animal Liberation\" critiqued anthropocentrism and put the case for animals to be given moral consideration. This can be seen as a part of a process of expanding the prevailing system of ethics to wider groupings. However, Singer has disagreed with deep ecology's belief in the intrinsic value of nature separate from questions of suffering, taking a more utilitarian stance. The feminist and civil rights movements also brought about expansion of the ethical system for their particular domains. Likewise deep ecology brought the whole of nature under moral consideration. The links with animal rights are perhaps the strongest, as \"proponents of such ideas argue that 'All life has intrinsic value'\".\n\nMany in the radical environmental direct-action movement Earth First! claim to follow deep ecology, as indicated by one of their slogans \"No compromise in defence of mother earth\". In particular, David Foreman, the co-founder of the movement, has also been a strong advocate for deep ecology, and engaged in a public debate with Murray Bookchin on the subject. Judi Bari was another prominent Earth Firster who espoused deep ecology. Many Earth First! actions have a distinct deep ecological theme; often these actions will be to save an area of old growth forest, the habitat of a snail or an owl, even individual trees. Actions are often symbolic or have other political aims. At one point Arne Næss also engaged in environmental direct action, though not under the Earth First! banner, when he chained himself to rocks in front of Mardalsfossen, a waterfall in a Norwegian fjord, in a successful protest against the building of a dam.\n\nThere are also anarchist currents in the movement, especially in the United Kingdom. For example, Robert Hart, pioneer of forest gardening in temperate climates, wrote the essay \"Can Life Survive?\" in \"Deep Ecology & Anarchism\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3919296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3919296", "title": "Disposition effect", "text": "Disposition effect\n\nThe disposition effect is an anomaly discovered in behavioral finance. It relates to the tendency of investors to sell assets that have increased in value, while keeping assets that have dropped in value.\n\nHersh Shefrin and Meir Statman identified and named the effect in their 1985 paper, which found that people dislike losing significantly more than they enjoy winning. The disposition effect has been described as \"[o]ne of the most robust facts about the trading of individual investors\" because investors will hold stocks that have lost value yet sell stocks that have gained value.\"\n\nIn 1979, Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky traced the cause of the disposition effect to the so-called \"prospect theory\". The prospect theory proposes that when an individual is presented with two equal choices, one having possible gains and the other with possible losses, the individual is more likely to opt for the former choice even though both would yield the same economic result.\n\nThe disposition effect can be minimized by a mental approach called \"hedonic framing\".\n\nNicholas Barberis and Wei Xiong have described the disposition effect as \"[o]ne of the most robust facts about the trading of individual investors.” The effect, they note, “has been documented in all the available large databases of individual investor trading activity and has been linked to important pricing phenomena such as post-earnings announcement drift and stock-level momentum. Disposition effects have also been uncovered in other settings—in the real estate market, for example, and in the exercise of executive stock options.\"\n\nBarberis has noted that the disposition effect is not a rational sort of conduct because of the reality of stock market momentum, meaning “that stocks that have done well over the past six months tend to keep doing well over the next six months; and that stocks that have done poorly over the past six months tend to keep doing poorly over the next six months.” This being the case, the rational act would be “to hold on to stocks that have recently risen in value; and to sell stocks that have recently fallen in value. But individual investors tend to do exactly the opposite.”\n\nAlexander Joshi has summed up the disposition effect as the disposition that investors have to hold on to losing positions longer than winning positions, saying that \"investors hate losses and will gamble to avoid experiencing them, so they exhibit risk-seeking behaviour by holding losers. Conversely investors will want to lock in gains, so they exhibit risk-averse behaviour by selling winners.”\n\nDacey and Zielonka showed that the greater the level of stock prices volatility, the more prone the investor was to sell a loser, contrary to the disposition effect. This result explains the panic selling of stocks during a market collapse.\n\nThe effect was identified and named by Hersh Shefrin and Meir Statman in 1985. In their study, Shefrin and Statman noted that \"people dislike incurring losses much more than they enjoy making gains, and people are willing to gamble in the domain of losses.\" Consequently, \"investors will hold onto stocks that have lost value...and will be eager to sell stocks that have risen in value.\" The researchers coined the term \"disposition effect\" to describe this tendency of holding on to losing stocks too long and to sell off well-performing stocks too readily. Shefrin colloquially described this as a \"predisposition toward get-evenitis.\" John R. Nofsinger has called this sort of investment behavior as a product of the desire to avoid regret and seek pride.\n\nResearchers have traced the cause of the disposition effect to so-called \"prospect theory\", which was first identified and named by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky in 1979. Kahneman and Tversky stated that, \"losses have more emotional impact than an equivalent amount of gains,\" and that people consequently base their decisions not on perceived losses but on perceived gains. What this means is that, if presented with two equal choices, one described in terms of possible gains and the other described in terms of possible losses, they would opt for the former choice, even though both would yield the same economic end result. For example, even though the net result of receiving $50 would be the same as the net result of gaining $100 and then losing $50, people would tend to take a more favorable view of the former than of the latter scenario.\n\nIn Kahneman and Tversky's study, participants were presented with two situations. In the first, they had $1,000 and had to select one of two choices. Under Choice A, they would have a 50% chance of gaining $1,000, and a 50% chance of gaining $0; under Choice B, they would have a 100% chance of gaining $500. In the second situation, they had $2,000 and had to select either Choice A (a 50% chance of losing $1,000, and 50% of losing $0) or Choice B (a 100% chance of losing $500). An overwhelming majority of participants chose “B” in the first scenario and \"A\" in the second. This suggested that \"people are willing to settle for a reasonable level of gains (even if they have a reasonable chance of earning more), but are willing to engage in risk-seeking behaviors where they can limit their losses. In other words, losses are weighted more heavily than an equivalent amount of gains.” This phenomenon is called the “asymmetric value function,\" which means, in short, that \"a loss creates a greater feeling of pain compared to the joy created by an equivalent gain.\"\n\nThe prospect theory can explain such phenomena as people who prefer not to deposit their money in a bank, even though they would earn interest, or people who choose not to work overtime because they would have to pay higher taxes. It also plainly underlies the disposition effect. In both situations presented to participants in Kahneman and Tversky's study, the participants sought, in risk-averse fashion, to cash in on guaranteed gains. This behavior plainly explains why investors act too soon to realize stockmarket gains.\n\nThe disposition effect can be minimized by means of a mental approach called \"hedonic framing\". For example, individuals can try to force themselves to think of a single large gain as a number of smaller gains, to think of a number of smaller losses as a single large loss, to think of the combination of a major gain and a minor loss as a net minor gain, and, in the case of a combined major loss and minor gain, to think of the two separately.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2068260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2068260", "title": "Dry drunk", "text": "Dry drunk\n\nDry drunk is a colloquial expression which describes an alcoholic who no longer drinks but otherwise maintains the same behavior patterns of an alcoholic. The objective of groups such as Narcotics Anonymous (NA) and Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) is not just to help their members stop abusing drugs and alcohol. It is acknowledged in these programs that addiction is more systemic than a \"bad habit\" and is fundamentally caused by self-centeredness. Long term membership in Alcoholics Anonymous has been found to reform pathological narcissism, and those who are sober but retain characteristics of personality disorders associated with addiction are known in AA as dry drunks. The term is used by Alcoholics Anonymous in relation to feelings of anger, depression and resentment.\n\nA dry drunk can be described as a person who refrains from alcohol or drugs, but still has all the unresolved emotional and psychological issues which might have fueled the addiction to begin with. These unresolved issues continue to have a hold on their psyche and hence, they act like \"dry drunks.\" In most cases, alcohol dependancy is a substantial factor in the lives of the alcoholics and accepting sobriety comes with its own challenges and understanding of their personality. Despite leaving alcohol and de-addicting themselves, most of their personalities are an embodiment of their drunkard selves. \n\nThe dry drunk is portrayed with feelings of profound depression and frustration and with the indecisive feeling of wanting a drink that they have given up. Several alcoholics drink for about 10-20 years before maintaining sobriety and get used to their personality and character traits that are embodied by their drunkard selves. During this phase of dry drunk, the addicts face restlessness, frustration, anger, impatience and craving. The symptoms of dry drunkenness are irregular and become less intense as the period of sobriety increases. Most of the symptoms of dry drunkenness can be noticed in the initial phase of sobriety.\n\n"}
{"id": "38466074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38466074", "title": "Ethnic penalty", "text": "Ethnic penalty\n\nEthnic penalty in sociology is defined as the economic and non-economic disadvantages that ethnic minorities experience in the labour market compared to other ethnic groups. As an area of study among behavioral economists, psychologists, and sociologists, it ranges beyond discrimination to take non-cognitive factors into consideration for explaining unwarranted differences between individuals of similar abilities but differing ethnicities.\n\nThe concept of the ethnic penalty was first discussed by Oxford sociologist Anthony Heath and refined with greater specificity by another Oxford sociologist, Reza Hasmath and, recently, by another sociologist, Elyakim Kislev. Heath originally looked at the ethnic penalty by making comparisons between two groups in Britain, whites and blacks, noting that unemployment of black African men was twice as high as unemployment of white men. Using 2001 UK census data, Johnston et al. suggests that all ethno-religious groups in the UK experienced ethnic penalties in the labour market, with the exception of White British ethno-religious groups. Carmichael and Woods additionally show that \"the penalties paid vary considerably between the minority groups\" studied, in the case of black, Indian, Pakistani, and Bangladeshi workers in the United Kingdom. Simpson, Purdam, Tajar, et al. also found that this differs between UK-born members of an ethnic minority and those of the same ethnicity born abroad – UK-born males are more likely to be unemployed than males from overseas, while UK-born women \"tend to do better in the labour market than their overseas-born counterparts\". Beyond this, Simpson et al. confirmed that this disadvantage is not tied to \"concentration of ethnic minorities in deprived areas\"; those of an \"ethnic minority were still twice as likely to be unemployed than their White counterparts... even in areas that are predominantly White\". Furthermore, ethnic minorities experience economic disadvantages even in some areas where their level of educational attainments outperform or are on par with that of the majority population, as is the case in Beijing. Here, the education levels of ethnic minorities largely match those of the Han population, yet Hans dominate the demographics of high-wage, high-education and skills-intensive employment sectors. Recent research into the process of minority job acquisition and retention in China finds that \"minorities perceive they are at a disadvantage in the job search process,\" even if Han-minority wage differentials show little evidence of disadvantages for ethnic minorities. Recent research has explored the possibility of a \"double penalty\" which considers the interaction effects of ethnicity and gender.\n\nReza Hasmath concludes that exclusionary discrimination is not the only potential explanation for ethnic penalties. Conditions such an individual's social network, a firm's working culture, and a community's social trust should be strongly factored. Silberman and Fournier, in their investigation of ethnic penalty in France, also highlight that an employer may not necessarily wish themselves to discriminate, but that they may be pressured by \"a given company’s employees or a customer wishing to have nothing to do with an individual with this or that characteristic\".\n\nElyakim Kislev's work divides the ethnic penalty into four components: individual characteristics, country characteristics, the social environment in host country, and the policy environment in host country. Kislev shows that the main reasons for immigrants’ disadvantage in terms of labor force participation and household income are both origin and host country characteristics, while the effects of ethnic origins, social exclusion, and policies are weaker. However, ethnic origins and social exclusion actually play a central role in determining unemployment of immigrants.\n"}
{"id": "4432755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4432755", "title": "Exemplification", "text": "Exemplification\n\nExemplification, in the philosophy of language, is a mode of symbolization characterized by the relation between a sample and what it refers to.\n\nUnlike ostension, which is the act of showing or pointing to a sample, exemplification is possession of a property plus reference to its label (Goodman, 1976). For example, if a color sample has the property labelled 'green', then the color sample exemplifies green. At its most basic, possession of a property amounts to being correctly referred to by its label. In other words, an entity, 'x' can be said to possess a certain property if and only if: (1) there can be an abstract singular term which denotes that property, and (2) those assertions are true which predicate such an abstract term of a name or phrase denoting x. \n\nReference is the relation between something \"standing for\" something else, like the relation between a word and what it denotes. Usually reference goes in one direction, from the word to what it denotes, but it may also go in both directions, from the denoted back to the word. For instance, when a patch of green paint is used as a colour sample. The sample refers to green by possessing it and thus being referred to by the word denoting it. The sample exemplifies green, it stands for it, and in this way exemplification is a mode of reference.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24131652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24131652", "title": "Gender violence", "text": "Gender violence\n\nGender violence, also known as gender-based violence or gendered violence, is the term used to denote harm inflicted upon individuals and groups that is connected to normative understandings of their gender. This connection can be in the form of cultural understandings of gender roles, institutional and structural forces that endorse violence based on gender and societal influences that shape violent events along gender lines. While the term is often used synonymously with ‘violence against women’, gendered violence can and does occur for people of all genders including men, women, male and female children and gender diverse individuals. \n\nActivities heavily associated with violence are overwhelmingly shaped by understandings of gender and gender roles. War, for example, in contemporary understandings is divided between civilian and combatants with a general understanding that men make up the vast majority of combatants and women and young children the majority of civilians. In cases like the Srebenica massacre, in which 8,000 men and male children were killed, the basis of their murder was a gendered understanding that they had the potential of being, or becoming combatants in the Bosnian war.\n\nIn discussing gender and violence at regional levels, the experiences of people who exist in transition between spaces or who are not counted within regional data can potentially be omitted from this discussion; these include displaced persons, people seeking asylum and refugees.\n\nViolence against women is a major concern in the Asian regions, especially the prevalence of marital violence varies considerably across South Asian countries. For married women aged 15–49 years, physical or sexual violence within marriage has been experienced by 20% in the Maldives, 26% in Pakistan, 28% in Nepal, 38% in India and 53% in Bangladesh. The violence against women is a very serious issue that can be attributed to the death. For example, India recorded over 40.000 dowry-related deaths between 2011 and 2015. In Nepal and Bangladesh, the Asia Foundation points out that gender-based violence is the first or second cause of international homicides in these countries. One of the biggest historical violence against women is the phenomenon of comfort women. Comfort women refers to tens of thousands of young women, majority from Korea who were forced into sex slaves for Japanese military during the Asia Pacific War. Korea’s comfort women represent gender violence in the context of patriarchal colonial capitalism as the phenomenon reflects Japan’s colonial economy and traditional sexual cultures of Japanese and Korean patriarchy. Therefore, they were victims of sexism, classism, racism, colonialism, militarism, and capitalist imperialism.\n\nSee also Violence against women in Malaysia\n\nGendered violence in the Middle East greatly targeted towards women and is justified by political and religious laws; acts of gendered violence take the form of forced early marriage, rape, and domestic violence. Gendered violence can also be found in instances where Islamic law is used to justify killing women in order to preserve male honor. In Yemen, for example, 400 women were subjected to honor killings between 1996 and 1998. Ways in which women are held to a code of honor include the practice of wearing scarves and refraining from using makeup, failure to do so can potentially result in physical and verbal harassment or loss of jobs. Scholars Islamic laws make it justifiable to rape, beat, and sell non-Muslim women and girls. The highly patriarchal mindset that takes place in both religious and political laws makes it difficult for women to seek an alternative option. Most women in the Middle East are financially dependant on their husband and access to education or finances is rare. Furthermore, women require permission from a male guardian if they wish to marry, travel, or work. Women who are married also face the risk of domestic violence. A study conducted on Egyptian women found that they believed  physical violence from their partners was justifiable. Most women in the Middle East are also subject to forced early marriage, that can legally occur before the age of eighteen. Socioeconomic status plays a role as poor families are highly likely to marry their daughters for the right price, specifically in Yemen, where it is more difficult to marry daughters past the age of twenty because they are seen as too old. Interviews with women from Yemen and Palestine revealed that their experience with young marriage included violent and painful acts of rape and sexual assault by their husbands. Gendered violence against women and female children in the Middle East is normalized and supported by existing patriarchal values and beliefs that exist both in a religious and political context.\n\nTo understand the connection between Gender and Violence in the Oceanic context it is crucial to understand the effects of colonisation on Aotearoa (New Zealand), the Pacific islands and the many nations within the Australian continent. While practices of colonisation in these regions have not been homogenous, colonisation has disrupted gender roles, relationships and modes of production, which continue to influence both contemporary gender relations and practices of violence and domination.  As Atkinson discusses, in Australia ongoing colonial relationships of power continue to create and perpetuate gendered violence, particularly for Indigenous women. Similarly, for Aotearoa/New Zealand the introduction of colonial patriarchy and racialised colonial power has fundamentally altered Māori frameworks and relationships to the land which have transformed both Māori ways of being and interpersonal relationships such as connections between genders. Not only have these changed relationships resulted in sexual gender based violence but also a broader adoption of masculine settler norms that foster violence and gender discrimination. Despite these colonial legacies there is a strong focus on supporting peace and deconstructing gendered relations. For example, in the Pacific, the Women, Peace and Security agenda has a large role in preventing violence in Pacific communities as women within in this region play strong roles in advocating for peace and working to prevent violent conflict.\n\nGendered violence continues to be an ongoing issue in the European region with high rates of sexual harassment, intimate partner violence, domestic violence and conflict. Within the European Union research suggests that one-third of all women over fifteen years old have experienced some form of physical or sexual violence. While European institutions have implemented a plethora of initiatives through the European Union, United Nations declarations and the European commission these programs are predominantly legal or punitive reforms that concentrate on structural rather than cultural change. Europe also has a long history of gender-based violence including violent periods of religious persecution through eras such as the ‘Witch hunts’.\n\nGendered violence exists in North America in forms such as stalking, intimate partner violence, physical abuse, emotional abuse, and sexual assault. Overall, women in North America are victims of  sexual violence far more than men. Studies indicate that 82% of sexual assault survivors are women, while 98% of offenders are man. Additionally, women in North America are more likely than men to experience forms  of sexual violence before the age of eighteen.  Forms of intimate partner violence is experienced at a higher rate by women; this is not limited to sexual violence but included stalking and severe physical violence as well.  Overall, about one in six students at college campuses in the United States and Canada report experiencing violence in a six month period. The main difference regarding the types of violence experienced by men in women on college campus was incidents of sexual assault. Research found that women were more likely to report issues of sexual assault and emotional abuse than men, but men and women were equally likely to report other forms of violence. A study done in the United States revealed that both men and women believe it is more acceptable to for women to display acts of physical violence on their male partner than vise versa; Because of this, women’s acts of violence is seen as less less injurious and more socially acceptable. As a result is suspected that men experience dating violence at a higher rate than studies reveal but are not likely to report such incidents.\n\nA major cause of gendered violence in Central and South America comes from a high prevalence of gangs affiliation and membership. In the past, criminal gangs were viewed through a male dominant perception but new research suggests recruitment and involvement of women in gangs is rapidly increasing. It used to be the case that women would support partners who were gang members while, but now women are being used to commit crimes that were traditionally for men because their essence of innocence deters police. Despite women carrying out masculine roles within gangs, they are still the primary target of violence and face constant abuse by their partners. Women who try to leave gangs will often be threatened by other members and will stay in affiliation because they receive very little help from authorities. Some women believe it is safer to continue gang membership than to report to authorities because police in Central America, specifically in Guatemala, are notorious for abusing their power to abuse women and in other cases prove to be unresponsive to reports of violence. Women who attempt to seek refuge in the United States are usually denied due to their pre-existing gang membership, or because they do not have evidence of violence being perpetrated against them. Other legalities make it difficult for women to escape forms of violence such as rape or domestic violence. In Guatemala, “girls can be forced to marry their rapists to preserve their own and the family’s honor”. The high influence of Christianity and Catholicism also make it unacceptable to leave a relationship due to domestic violence and many women are expected to put up with; religious influence on laws also make it impossible to receive an abortion even on occasions of rape. Gendered violence is typical in South and Central America, and is mostly violence directed towards women. The lack of assistance by law enforcement make it possible for this violence to continue and the large scale presence of gangs further contribute to gendered violence happening against women despite the growing number of women with gang membership.\n\nThe prevalence of violence against women is very severe in Africa where around one third of African women report to have experienced domestic violence both physical and sexual. Violence within the family, especially experienced by women is attributed to ancient socioeconomic conditions that shape social norms about marriage patterns, living arrangements and the productive role of women. Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) is considered a form of gender based violation that has a great influence on women and girls’ bodies. More than 200 million girls and women alive today have been subjected to FGM in 30 countries in Africa and the Middle East. FGM is not only a matter of discrimination against females, but it violates a person’s rights to health, security and physical integrity, the right to be free from torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, and the right to life when the procedure results in death. Gender violence does not only target women. In 33 African counties, adult same-sex acts are illegal, including 24 that criminalize lesbian acts, and many other countries have recently passed laws that restrict and punish groups that support work on sexual orientation and gender identity issues. Consequently, sexual minority people are subjected to gender violence, including being harassed, threatened and even killed in some places.\n\n"}
{"id": "38116739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38116739", "title": "Gitte Haslebo", "text": "Gitte Haslebo\n\nGitte Haslebo (born 4 December 1943, Copenhagen) is a Danish scientist, author, and organisational psychologist who works as a consultant and offers training courses within a social constructionist framework. She is an associate with the Taos Institute.\n\nHaslebo was born in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1943, the daughter of Harald and Else Haslebo. She was raised in Vanloese and Skovlunde, where her father founded his construction company, Skovlunde Byggeforretning. She attended Skovlunde Skole until she was 12 years old, when she switched to Lindevangskolen in Ballerup, Copenhagen. In 1960–61 Haslebo spent a year in the United States, graduating in 1961 from Homewood-Flossmoor High School in suburban Chicago. After her return to Denmark, she graduated from high school in 1963.\n\nHaslebo completed a master's degree in business administration in 1968 at the University of Kansas and took a degree as a psychologist from the University of Copenhagen in 1970. She also has a Scandinavian process consultant degree from the European Institute for Transnational Training.\n\nHaslebo started out as an amanuensis at the University of Copenhagen, where she worked from 1970–72. She then began her career as a scientist at the newly established Sydjysk Universitetscenter. She then worked at the Low Income Commission until 1983. After about a year as an official at the Danish Ministry of Environment, she was made head of education for the Danish School of Public Administration, where she was employed until 1989. The following two years she worked for Kommunedata as head of human resources. In 1991 Haslebo founded her own company and now works as an organizational consultant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21565204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21565204", "title": "Hume and the Problem of Causation", "text": "Hume and the Problem of Causation\n\nHume and the Problem of Causation is a book written by Tom Beauchamp and Alexander Rosenberg, published in 1981 by Oxford University Press. \n\nBeauchamp and Rosenberg developed a single interpretation of David Hume’s view on the nature of causation that rests on all of his works, and defended it against historical and contemporary objections. They argued in particular that Hume was not a skeptic about induction but sought to undermine a priori justifications of induction advanced by rationalist philosophers.\n\nThe book is now out of print but available on line at a web site given below.\n\n"}
{"id": "47724378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47724378", "title": "Indexed category", "text": "Indexed category\n\nIn category theory, a branch of mathematics, a \"C\"-indexed category is a pseudofunctor from \"C\" to Cat. Any indexed category has an associated Grothendieck construction, which gives rise to a fibred category.\n"}
{"id": "9213750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9213750", "title": "Linguistic rights", "text": "Linguistic rights\n\nLinguistic rights are the human and civil rights concerning the individual and collective right to choose the language or languages for communication in a private or public atmosphere. Other parameters for analyzing linguistic rights include the degree of territoriality, amount of positivity, orientation in terms of assimilation or maintenance, and overtness.\n\nLinguistic rights include, among others, the right to one's own language in legal, administrative and judicial acts, language education, and media in a language understood and freely chosen by those concerned.\n\nLinguistic rights in international law are usually dealt in the broader framework of cultural and educational rights.\n\nImportant documents for linguistic rights include the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights (1996), the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages (1992), the Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989) and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities (1988), as well as Convention against Discrimination in Education and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966).\n\nLinguistic rights became more and more prominent throughout the course of history as language came to be increasingly seen as a part of nationhood. Although policies and legislation involving language have been in effect in early European history, these were often cases where a language was being imposed upon people while other languages or dialects were neglected. Most of the initial literature on linguistic rights came from countries where linguistic and/or national divisions grounded in linguistic diversity have resulted in linguistic rights playing a vital role in maintaining stability. However, it was not until the 1900s that linguistic rights gained official status in politics and international accords.\n\nLinguistic rights were first included as an international human right in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948.\n\nFormal treaty-based language rights are mostly concerned with minority rights. The history of such language rights can be split into five phases.\n\n\nSome make a distinction between language rights and linguistic human rights because the former concept covers a much wider scope. Thus, not all language rights are LHR, although all LHR are language rights. One way of distinguishing language rights from LHR is between what is necessary, and what is enrichment-oriented. Necessary rights, as in human rights, are those needed for basic needs and for living a dignified life, e.g. language-related identity, access to mother tongue(s), right of access to an official language, no enforced language shift, access to formal primary education based on language, and the right for minority groups to perpetuate as a distinct group, with own languages. Enrichment rights are above basic needs, e.g. right to learn foreign languages.\n\nThe most basic definition of linguistic rights is the right of individuals to use their language with other members of their linguistic group, regardless of the status of their language. They evolve from general human rights, in particular: non-discrimination, freedom of expression, right to private life, and the right of members of a linguistic minority to use their language with other members of their community.\n\nIndividual linguistic rights are provided for in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights:\nLinguistic rights can be applied to the private arena and the public domain.\n\nMost treaties or language rights documents distinguish between the private use of a language by individuals and the use of a language by public authorities. Existing international human rights mandate that all individuals have the right to private and family life, freedom of expression, non-discrimination and/or the right of persons belonging to a linguistic minority to use their language with other members of their group. The United Nations Human Rights Committee defines privacy as:\n\"... the sphere of a person's life in which he or she can freely express his or her identity, be it by entering into relationships with others or alone. The Committee is of the view that a person's surname [and name] constitutes an important component of one's identity and that the protection against arbitrary or unlawful interference with one's privacy includes the protection against arbitrary or unlawful interference with the right to choose and change one's own name.\"\nThis means that individuals have the right to have their name or surname in their own language, regardless of whether the language is official or recognised, and state or public authorities cannot interfere with this right arbitrarily or unlawfully.<br>\n\nThe public domain, with respect to language use, can be divided into judicial proceedings and general use by public officials.<br>\n\nAccording to Article 10 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, individuals have the right to a fair trial. Therefore, in the name of fairness of judicial proceedings, it is an established linguistic right of an individual to an interpreter when he or she does not understand the language used in criminal court proceedings, or in a criminal accusation. The public authorities must either use the language which the individual understands, or hire an interpreter to translate the proceedings, including court cases.\n\nGeneral use by public officials can cover matters including public education, public radio and television broadcasting, the provision of services to the public, and so on. It is often accepted to be reasonable and justified for public officials to use the language of minorities, to an appropriate degree and level in their activities, when the numbers and geographic concentration of the speakers of a minority language are substantial enough. However, this is a contentious topic as the decision of substantiation is often arbitrary. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 26, does promise to protect all individuals from discrimination on the grounds of language. Following that, Article 27 declares, \"minorities shall not be denied the right... to use their own language\". The Convention against Discrimination in Education, Article 5, also does declares the rights for minorities to \"use or teach their own language\".\n\nCollective linguistic rights are linguistic rights of a group, notably a language group or a state. Collective rights mean \"the right of a linguistic group to ensure the survival of its language and to transmit the language to future generations\". Language groups are complex and more difficult to demarcate than states. Part of this difficulty is that members within language groups assign different roles to their language, and there are also difficulties in defining a language. Some states have legal provisions for the safeguard of collective linguistic rights because there are clear-cut situations under particular historical and social circumstances. <br>\n\nCollective linguistic rights apply to states because they express themselves in one or more languages. Generally, the language régime of states, which is communicated through allocation of statuses to languages used within its boundaries, qualifies linguistic rights claimed by groups and individuals in the name of efficient governance, in the best interest of the common good. States are held in check by international conventions and the demands of the citizens. Linguistic rights translate to laws differently from country to country, as there is no generally accepted standard legal definition.\n\nThe principle of territoriality refers to linguistic rights being focused solely within a territory, whereas the principle of personality depends on the linguistic status of the person(s) involved. An example of the application of territoriality is the case of Switzerland, where linguistic rights are defined within clearly divided language-based cantons. An example of the application of personality is in federal Canadian legislation, which grants the right to services in French or English regardless of territory.<br>\n\nNegative linguistic rights mean the right for the exercise of language without the interference of the State. Positive linguistic rights require positive action by the State involving the use of public money, such as public education in a specific language, or state-provided services in a particular language.\n\nAssimilation-oriented types of language rights refer to the aim of the law to assimilate all citizens within the country, and range from prohibition to toleration. An example of prohibition type laws is the treatment of Kurds in Turkey as well as Turks in Iran, where they are forbidden to use the Kurdish and Turkish languages respectively. Maintenance-oriented types of language rights refer to laws aiming to enable the maintenance of all languages within a country, and range from permission to promotion. An example of laws that promote language rights is the Basque Normalization Law, where the Basque language is promoted. The neutral point between assimilation-orientation and maintenance-orientation is non-discrimination prescription, which forbids discrimination based on language.\n\nAnother dimension for analyzing language rights is with degree of overtness and covertness. Degree of overtness refers to the extent laws or covenants are explicit with respect to language rights, and covertness the reverse. For example, Indian laws are overt in promoting language rights, whereas the English Language Amendments to the US Constitution are overt prohibition. The Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child all fall under covert toleration.\n\nSome have criticized linguistic rights proponents for taking language to be a single coherent construct, pointing out instead, the difference between language and speech communities, and putting too much concern over inter-language discrimination rather than intra-language discrimination.<br>\n\nOther issues pointed out are the assumptions that the collective aims of linguistic minority groups are uniform, and that the concept of collective rights is not without its problems.<br>\n\nThere is also the protest against the framework of Linguistic Human Rights singling out minority languages for special treatment, causing limited resources to be distributed unfairly. This has led to a call for deeper ethnographic and historiographic study into the relationship between speakers' attitudes, speakers' meaning, language, power, and speech communities.\n\nLinguistic rights manifest as legislation (the passing of a law), subsequently becoming a statute to be enforced. Language legislation delimiting official usage can by grouped into official, institutionalizing, standardizing, and liberal language legislation, based on its function. \"Official legislation makes languages official in the domains of legislation, justice, public administration, and education, [commonly according to territoriality and personality]. Various combinations of both principles are also used... Institutionalizing legislation covers the unofficial domains of labour, communications, culture, commerce, and business...\"\n\nIn relation to legislation, a causal effect of linguistic rights is language policy. The field of language planning falls under language policy. There are 3 types of language planning: status planning (uses of language), acquisition planning (users of language), and corpus planning (language itself).\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights was approved on 6 June 1996 in Barcelona, Spain. It was the culmination of work by a committee of 50 experts under the auspices of UNESCO. Signatories were 220 persons from over 90 states, representing NGOs and International PEN Clubs Centres. This Declaration was drawn up in response to calls for linguistic rights as a fundamental human right at the 12th Seminar of the International Association for the Development of Intercultural Communication and the Final Declaration of the General Assembly of the International Federation of Modern Language Teachers. Linguistic rights in this Declaration stems from the language community, i.e., collective rights, and explicitly includes both regional and immigrant minority languages. <br>\n\nOverall, this document is divided into sections including: Concepts, General Principles, Overall linguistic regime (which covers Public administration and official bodies, Education, Proper names, Communications media and new technologies, Culture, and The socioeconomic sphere), Additional Dispositions, and Final Dispositions. So for instance, linguistic rights are granted equally to all language communities under Article 10, and to everyone, the right to use any language of choice in the private and family sphere under Article 12. Other Articles details the right to use or choice of languages in education, public, and legal arenas.<br>\n\nThere are a number of other documents on the international level granting linguistic rights. The UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1966 makes international law provision for protection of minorities. Article 27 states that individuals of linguistic minorities cannot be denied the right to use their own language. <br>\n\nThe UN Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1992. Article 4 makes \"certain modest obligations on states\". It states that states should provide individuals belonging to minority groups with sufficient opportunities for education in their mother tongue, or instruction with their mother tongue as the medium of instruction. However, this Declaration is non-binding.<br>\n\nA third document adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1989, which makes provisions for linguistic rights is the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this convention, Articles 29 and 30 declare respect for the child's own cultural identity, language and values, even when those are different from the country of residence, and the right for the child to use his or her own language, in spite of the child's minority or immigrant status.<br>\n\nLinguistic rights in Africa have only come into focus in recent years. In 1963, the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) was formed to help defend the fundamental human rights of all Africans. It adopted in 1981 the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, which aims to promote and protect fundamental human rights, including language rights, in Africa. In 2004, fifteen member states ratified the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights Establishing the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights. The Court is a regional, legal platform that monitors and promotes the AU states' compliance with the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights. It is currently pending a merger with the Court of Justice of the African Union.\n\nIn 2001 the President of the Republic of Mali, in conjunction with the OAU, set up the foundation for the African Academy of Languages (ACALAN) to \"work for the promotion and harmonisation of languages in Africa\". Along with the inauguration of the Interim Governing Board of the ACALAN, the African Union declared 2006 as the Year of African Languages (YOAL).\n\nIn 2002, the OAU was disbanded and replaced by the African Union (AU). The AU adopted the Constitutive Act previously drawn up by the OAU in 2000. In Article 25, it is stated that the working languages of the Union and its institutions are Arabic, English, French and Portuguese, and if possible, all African languages. The AU also recognizes the national languages of each of its member institutions as stated in their national constitutions. In 2003, the AU adopted a protocol amending the Act such that working languages shall be renamed as official languages, and would encompass Spanish, Kiswahili and \"any other African language\" in addition to the four aforementioned languages . However, this Amendment has yet to be put into force, and the AU continues to use only the four working languages for its publications.\n\nThe Council of Europe adopted the European Convention on Human Rights in 1950, which makes some reference to linguistic rights. In Article 5.2, reasons for arrest and charges have to be communicated in a language understood by the person. Secondly, Article 6.3 grants an interpreter for free in a court, if the language used cannot be spoken or understood.<br>\n\nThe Council for Local and Regional Authorities, part of the Council of Europe, formulated the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages in 1992. This Charter grants recognition, protection, and promotion to regional and/or minority languages in European states, though explicitly not immigrant languages, in domains of \"education, judicial authorities, administrative and public services, media, cultural activities, and socio-economic life\" in Articles 8 to 13. Provisions under this Charter are enforced every three years by a committee. States choose which regional and/or minority languages to include.<br>\n\nThe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities was implemented by the Council of Europe in 1995 as a \"parallel activity\" to the Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. This Framework makes provisions for the right of national minorities to preserve their language in Article 5, for the encouragement of \"mutual respect and understanding and co-operation among all persons living on their territory\", regardless of language, especially in \"fields of education, culture and the media\" in Article 6. Article 6 also aims to protect persons from discrimination based on language. <br>\n\nAnother document adopted by the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly in 1998 is the Recommendation 1383 on Linguistic Diversification. It encourages a wider variety of languages taught in Council of Europe member states in Article 5. It also recommends language education to include languages of non-native groups in Article 8.\n\nZuckermann et al. (2014) proposed the enactment of \"Native Tongue Title\", an ex gratia compensation scheme for the loss of indigenous languages in Australia: \"Although some Australian states have enacted ex gratia compensation schemes for the victims of the Stolen Generations policies, the victims of linguicide (language killing) are largely overlooked ... Existing grant schemes to support Aboriginal languages ... should be complemented with compensation schemes, which are based on a claim of right. The proposed compensation scheme for the loss of Aboriginal languages should support the effort to reclaim and revive the lost languages.\n\nOn October 11, 2017, the New South Wales (NSW) parliament passed a legislation that recognises and revives indigenous languages for the first time in Australia's history. \"The NSW Government will appoint independent panel of Aboriginal language experts\" and \"establish languages centres\".\n\nUnder the Austrian Constitutional Law (1867), Article 8(2) grants the right to maintenance and development of nationality and language to all ethnic minorities, equal rights to all languages used within the regions in domains of education, administration and public life, as well as the right to education in their own language for ethnic communities, without the necessity of acquiring a second language used in the province.\n\nThe Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (1982) grants positive linguistic rights, by guaranteeing state responsibility to the French and English language communities. Section 23 declares three types of rights for Canadian citizens speaking French or English as their mother tongue and are minorities in a region. The first accords right of access to instruction in the medium of the mother tongue. The second assures educational facilities for minority languages. The third endows French and English language minorities the right to maintain and develop their own educational facilities. This control can take the form of \"exclusive decision-making authority over the expenditure of funds, the appointment and direction of the administration, instructional programs, the recruitment of teachers and personnel, and the making of agreements for education and services\". All of these rights apply to primary and secondary education, sustained on public funds, and depend on the numbers and circumstances.\n\nCroatian language is the stated to be the official language of Croatia in Article 3 of the Croatian constitution. The same Article of Constitution stipulates that in some of local units, with the Croatian language and Latin script, in official use may be introduce another language and Cyrillic or some other script under the conditions prescribed by law. The only example of the use of minority language at the regional level currently is Istria County where official languages are Croatian and Italian. In eastern Croatia, in Joint Council of Municipalities, at local (municipal) level is introduced Serbian as co official language. Each municipality, where a certain minority has more than one third of the population, can if it wants to introduce a minority language in official use.\n\nFinland has one of the most overt linguistic rights frameworks. Discrimination based on language is forbidden under the basic rights for all citizens in Finland. Section 17 of the Constitution of Finland explicitly details the right to one's language and culture, although these languages are stated as either Finnish or Swedish. This right applies to in courts of law and other authorities, as well as translated official documents. There is also overt obligation of the state to provide for the \"cultural and societal needs of the Finnish-speaking and Swedish-speaking populations of the country on an equal basis\". Other language communities, the ones specifically mentioned are indigenous groups, are granted the right to maintenance and development of their own language. There is an additional right for the specific group, the Sami, that they may use the Sami language when communicating with authorities. The deaf community is also granted the right to sign language and interpretation or translation. <br>\n\nRegulations regarding the rights of linguistic minorities in Finland, insist on the forming of a district for the first 9 years of comprehensive school education in each language, in municipalities with both Finnish- and Swedish-speaking children, as long as there is a minimum of 13 students from the language community of that mother tongue.\n\nThe constitution of India was first drafted on January 26, 1950. It is estimated that there are about 1500 languages in India. Article 343–345 declared that the official languages of India for communication with centre will be Hindi and English. There are 22 official languages identified by constitution. Article 345 states that \"the Legislature of a state may by law adopt any one or more of the languages in use in the State or Hindi as the language or languages to be used for all or any of the official purposes of that State: Provided that, until the Legislature of the State otherwise provides by law, the English language shall continue to be used for those official purposes within the State for which it was being used immediately before the commencement of this Constitution\".\n\nLanguage rights in Ireland are recognised in the Constitution of Ireland and in the Official Languages Act.\n\nIrish is the national and first official language according to the Constitution (with English being a second official language). The Constitution permits the public to conduct its business – and every part of its business – with the state solely through Irish.\n\nOn 14 July 2003, the President of Ireland signed the Official Languages Act 2003 into law and the provisions of the Act were gradually brought into force over a three-year period. The Act sets out the duties of public bodies regarding the provision of services in Irish and the rights of the public to avail of those services.\n\nThe use of Irish on the country's traffic signs is the most visible illustration of the state's policy regarding the official languages. It is a statutory requirement that placenames on signs be in both Irish and English except in the Gaeltacht, where signs are in Irish only.\n\nLanguage rights were recognized in Mexico in 2003 with the General Law of Linguistic Rights for the Indigenous Peoples which established a framework for the conservation, nurturing and development of indigenous languages. It recognizes the countries Many indigenous languages as coofficial National languages, and obligates government to offer all public services in indigenous languages. As of 2014 the goal of offering most public services in indigenous languages has not been met.\n\nPakistan uses English (Pakistani English) and Urdu as official languages. Although Urdu serves as the national language and lingua franca and is understood by most of the population, it is natively spoken by only 8% of the population. English is not natively used as a first language, but, for official purposes, about 49% of the population is able to communicate in some form of English. However, major regional languages like Punjabi (spoken by the majority of the population), Sindhi, Pashto, Saraiki, Hindko, Balochi, Brahui and Shina have no official status at the federal level.\n\nArticle XIV, Sections 6–9 of the 1987 Philippine constitution mandate the following:\n\nThe Republic of Poland declares that it shall apply the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages in accordance with the Act on national and ethnic minorities and on regional language, dated 6 January 2005.\n\nSpanish language is the stated to be the official language of Spain in Article 3 of the Spanish constitution, being the learning of this language compulsory by this same article. However, the constitution makes provisions for other languages of Spain to be official in their respective communities. An example would be the use of the Basque language in the Basque Autonomous Community (BAC). Apart from Spanish, the other co-official languages are Basque, Catalan and Galician.\n\nIn ratifying the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, Sweden declared five national minority languages: Saami, Finnish, Meänkieli, Romani, and Yiddish.\nRomani and Yiddish are non-territorial minority languages in Sweden and thus their speakers were granted more limited rights than speakers of the other three. After a decade of political debate, Sweden declared Swedish the main language of Sweden with its 2009 Language Act.\n\nLanguage rights in the United States are usually derived from the Fourteenth Amendment, with its Equal Protection and Due Process Clauses, because they forbid racial and ethnic discrimination, allowing language minorities to use this Amendment to claim their language rights. One example of use of the Due Process Clauses is the \"Meyer v. Nebraska\" case which held that a 1919 Nebraska law restricting foreign-language education violated the Due Process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Two other cases of major importance to linguistic rights were the \"Yu Cong Eng v. Trinidad\" case, which overturned a language-restrictive legislation in the Philippines, declaring that piece of legislation to be \"violative of the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Philippine Autonomy Act of Congress\", as well as the \"Farrington v. Tokushige\" case, which ruled that the governmental regulation of private schools, particularly to restrict the teaching of languages other than English and Hawaiian, as damaging to the migrant population of Hawaii. Both of these cases were influenced by the Meyer case, which was a precedent.\n\nThe linguistic situation for Basque is a precarious one. The Basque language is considered to be a low language in Spain, where, until about 1982, the Basque language was not used in administration. In 1978, a law was passed allowing for Basque to be used in administration side by side with Spanish in the Basque autonomous communities.\n\nBetween 1935 and 1975, the period of Franco's régime, the use of Basque was strictly prohibited, and thus language decline begun to occur as well. However, following the death of Franco, many Basque nationalists demanded that the Basque language be recognized. One of these groups was Euskadi Ta Askatasun (ETA). ETA had initially begun as a nonviolent group to promote Basque language and culture. However, when its demands were not met, it turned violent and evolved into violent separatist groups. Today, ETA's demands for a separate state stem partially from the problem of perceived linguistic discrimination. However, ETA called a permanent cease-fire in October 2011.\n\nThe Faroese language conflict, which occurred roughly between 1908 and 1938, has been described as political and cultural in nature. The two languages competing to become the official language of the Faroe Islands were Faroese and Danish. In the late 19th and early 20th century, the language of the government, education and Church was Danish, whereas Faroese was the language of the people. The movement towards Faroese language rights and preservation was begun in the 1880s by a group of students. This spread from 1920 onwards to a movement towards using Faroese in the religious and government sector. Faroese and Danish are now both official languages in the Faroe Islands.\n\nThe Newars of Nepal have been struggling to save their Nepal Bhasa language, culture and identity since the 1920s. Nepal Bhasa was suppressed during the Rana (1846–1951) and Panchayat (1960–1990) regimes leading to language decline. The Ranas forbade writing in Nepal Bhasa and authors were jailed or exiled. Beginning in 1965, the Panchayat system eased out regional languages from the radio and educational institutions, and protestors were put in prison.\n\nAfter the reinstatement of democracy in 1990, restrictions on publishing were relaxed; but attempts to gain usage in local state entities side by side with Nepali failed. On 1 June 1999, the Supreme Court forbade Kathmandu Metropolitan City from giving official recognition to Nepal Bhasa, and Rajbiraj Municipality and Dhanusa District Development Committee from recognizing Maithili.\n\nThe Interim Constitution of Nepal 2007 recognizes all the languages spoken as mother tongues in Nepal as the national languages of Nepal. It says that Nepali in Devanagari script shall be the language of official business, however, the use of mother tongues in local bodies or offices shall not be considered a barrier. The use of national languages in local government bodies has not happened in practice, and discouragement in their use and discrimination in allocation of resources persist. Some analysts have stated that one of the chief causes of the Maoist insurgency, or the Nepalese Civil War (1996–2006), was the denial of language rights and marginalization of ethnic groups.\n\nThe start of the conflict regarding languages in Sri Lanka goes as far back as the rule of the British. During the colonial period, English had a special and powerful position in Sri Lanka. The British ruled in Sri Lanka from the late eighteenth century to 1948. English was the official language of administration then. Just before the departure of the British, a \"swabhasha\" (your own language) movement was launched in a bid to phase out English slowly, replacing it with Sinhala or Tamil. However, shortly after the departure of the British the campaign, for various political reasons, evolved from advocating Sinhala and Tamil replacing English to just Sinhala replacing English.\n\nIn 1956, the first election after independence, the opposition won and the official language was declared to be Sinhala. The Tamil people were unhappy, feeling that they were greatly disadvantaged. Because Sinhala was now the official language, it made it easier for the people whose mother tongue was Sinhala to enter into government sector and also provided them with an unfair advantage in the education system. Tamils who also did not understand Sinhala felt greatly inconvenienced as they had to depend on others to translate official documents for them.\n\nBoth the Tamil and Sinhala-speaking people felt that language was crucial to their identity. The Sinhala people associated the language with their rich heritage. They were also afraid that, given that there were only 9 million speakers of the language at that time, if Sinhala was not the only official language it would eventually be slowly lost. The Tamil people felt that the Sinhala-only policy would assert the dominance of the Sinhalese people and as such they might lose their language, culture and identity.\n\nDespite the unhappiness of the Tamil people, no big political movement was undertaken till the early 1970s. Eventually in May 1976, there was a public demand for a Tamil state. During the 1956 election the Federal party had replaced the Tamil congress. The party was bent on \"the attainment of freedom for the Tamil-speaking people of Ceylon by the establishment of an autonomous Tamil state on the linguistic basis within the framework of a Federal Union of Ceylon\". However it did not have much success. Thus in 1972, the Federal Party, Tamil Congress and other organizations banded together into a new party called the \"Tamil United Front\".\n\nOne of the catalysts for Tamil separation arose in 1972 when the Sinhala government made amendments to the constitution. The Sinhala government decided to promote Buddhism as the official religion, claiming that \"it shall be the duty of the State to protect and foster Buddhism\". Given that the majority of the Tamils were Hindus, this created unease. There was then a fear among the Tamils that people belonging to the \"untouchable castes\" would be encouraged to convert to Buddhism and then \"brainwashed\" to learn Sinhala as well.\n\nAnother spur was also the impatience of Tamil youth in Sri Lanka. Veteran politicians noted that current youths were more ready to engage in violence, and some of them even had ties to certain rebel groups in South India. Also in 1974, there was conference of Tamil studies organized in Jaffna. The conference turned violent. This resulted in the deaths of seven people. Consequently, about 40 – 50 Tamil youths in between the years of 1972 and 1975 were detained without being properly charged, further increasing tension.\n\nA third stimulus was the changes in the criteria for University examinations in the early 1970s. The government decided that they wanted to standardize the university admission criteria, based on the language the entrance exams were taken in. It was noted that students who took the exams in Tamil scored better than the students who took it in Sinhala. Thus the government decided that Tamil students had to achieve a higher score than the students who took the exam in Sinhala to enter the universities. As a result, the number of Tamil students entering universities fell.\n\nAfter the July 1977 election, relations between the Sinhalese and the Ceylon Tamil people became worse. There was flash violence in parts of the country. It is estimated about 100 people were killed and thousands of people fled from their homes. Among all these tensions, the call for a separate state among Tamil people grew louder.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "141916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=141916", "title": "Magma (algebra)", "text": "Magma (algebra)\n\nIn abstract algebra, a magma (or groupoid; not to be confused with groupoids in category theory) is a basic kind of algebraic structure. Specifically, a magma consists of a set equipped with a single binary operation. The binary operation must be closed by definition but no other properties are imposed.\n\nThe term \"groupoid\" was introduced in 1927 by Heinrich Brandt describing his Brandt groupoid (translated from the German \"Gruppoid\"). The term was then appropriated by B. A. Hausmann and Øystein Ore (1937) in the sense (of a set with a binary operation) used in this article. In a couple of reviews of subsequent papers in Zentralblatt, Brandt strongly disagreed with this overloading of terminology. The Brandt groupoid is a groupoid in the sense used in category theory, but not in the sense used by Hausmann and Ore. Nevertheless, influential books in semigroup theory, including Clifford and Preston (1961) and Howie (1995) use groupoid in the sense of Hausmann and Ore. Hollings (2014) writes that the term \"groupoid\" is \"perhaps most often used in modern mathematics\" in the sense given to it in category theory.\n\nAccording to Bergman and Hausknecht (1996): \"There is no generally accepted word for a set with a not necessarily associative binary operation. The word \"groupoid\" is used by many universal algebraists, but workers in category theory and related areas object strongly to this usage because they use the same word to mean 'category in which all morphisms are invertible'. The term \"magma\" was used by Serre [Lie Algebras and Lie Groups, 1965].\" It also appears in Bourbaki's \"Éléments de mathématique\", Algèbre, chapitres 1 à 3, 1970.\n\nA magma is a set \"M\" matched with an operation, •, that sends any two elements to another element, . The symbol, •, is a general placeholder for a properly defined operation. To qualify as a magma, the set and operation must satisfy the following requirement (known as the \"magma or closure axiom\"):\n\nAnd in mathematical notation:\n\nIf • is instead a partial operation, then is called a partial magma or more often a partial groupoid.\n\nA morphism of magmas is a function, , mapping magma \"M\" to magma \"N\", that preserves the binary operation:\n\nwhere • and • denote the binary operation on \"M\" and \"N\" respectively.\n\nThe magma operation may be applied repeatedly, and in the general, non-associative case, the order matters, which is notated with parentheses. Also, the operation, •, is often omitted and notated by juxtaposition:\n\nA shorthand is often used to reduce the number of parentheses, in which the innermost operations and pairs of parentheses are omitted, being replaced just with juxtaposition, . For example, the above is abbreviated to the following expression, still containing parentheses:\nA way to avoid completely the use of parentheses is prefix notation, in which the same expression would be written . Another way, familiar to programmers, is postfix notation (Reverse Polish notation), in which the same expression would be written , in which the order of execution is simply left-to-right (no Currying).\n\nThe set of all possible strings consisting of symbols denoting elements of the magma, and sets of balanced parentheses is called the Dyck language. The total number of different ways of writing applications of the magma operator is given by the Catalan number, . Thus, for example, , which is just the statement that and are the only two ways of pairing three elements of a magma with two operations. Less trivially, : , , , , and .\n\nThere are formula_2 magmas with formula_3 elements so 1, 1, 16, 19683, 4294967296, ... magmas with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, ... elements. The corresponding numbers of non-isomorphic magmas are 1, 1, 10, 3330, 178981952, ... and of simultaneously non-isomorphic and non-antiisomorphic magmas are 1, 1, 7, 1734, 89521056, ... .\n\nA free magma, \"M\", on a set, \"X\", is the \"most general possible\" magma generated by \"X\" (i.e., there are no relations or axioms imposed on the generators; see free object). It can be described as the set of non-associative words on \"X\" with parentheses retained.\n\nIt can also be viewed, in terms familiar in computer science, as the magma of binary trees with leaves labelled by elements of \"X\". The operation is that of joining trees at the root. It therefore has a foundational role in syntax.\n\nA free magma has the universal property such that, if is a function from \"X\" to any magma, \"N\", then there is a unique extension of \"f\" to a morphism of magmas, \"f\" ′\n\nMagmas are not often studied as such; instead there are several different kinds of magma, depending on what axioms the operation is required to satisfy. Commonly studied types of magma include:\n\nNote that each of divisibility and invertibility imply the cancellation property.\n\nA magma , with ∈ , is called\n\n\nSee \"n\"-ary group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10148835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10148835", "title": "Membrane analogy", "text": "Membrane analogy\n\nThe elastic membrane analogy, also known as the soap-film analogy, was first published by pioneering aerodynamicist Ludwig Prandtl in 1903.\nIt describes the stress distribution on a long bar in torsion. The cross section of the bar is constant along its length, and need not be circular. The differential equation that governs the stress distribution on the bar in torsion is of the same form as the equation governing the shape of a membrane under differential pressure. Therefore, in order to discover the stress distribution on the bar, all one has to do is cut the shape of the cross section out of a piece of wood, cover it with a soap film, and apply a differential pressure across it. Then the slope of the soap film at any area of the cross section is directly proportional to the stress in the bar at the same point on its cross section.\n\nWhile the membrane analogy allows the stress distribution on any cross section to be determined experimentally, it also allows the stress distribution on thin-walled, open cross sections to be determined by the same theoretical approach that describes the behavior of rectangular sections. Using the membrane analogy, any thin-walled cross section can be \"stretched out\" into a rectangle without affecting the stress distribution under torsion. The maximum shear stress, therefore, occurs at the edge of the midpoint of the stretched cross section, and is equal to formula_1, where T is the torque applied, b is the length of the stretched cross section, and t is the thickness of the cross section.\n\nIt can be shown that the differential equation for the deflection surface of a homogeneous membrane, subjected to uniform lateral pressure and with uniform surface tension and with the same outline as that of the cross section of a bar under torsion, has the same form as that governing the stress distribution over the cross section of a bar under torsion.\n\nThis analogy was originally proposed by Ludwig Prandtl in 1903.\n\nPrandtl's stretched-membrane concept was used extensively in the field of electron tube (\"vacuum tube\") design (1930's to 1960's) to model the trajectory of electrons within a device. The model is constructed by uniformly stretching a thin rubber sheet over a frame, and deforming the sheet upwards with physical models of electrodes, impressed into the sheet from below. The entire assembly is tilted, and steel balls (as electron analogs) rolled down the assembly and the trajectories noted. The curved surface surrounding the \"electrodes\" represents the complex increase in field strength as the electron-analog approaches the \"electrode\"; the upward distortion in the sheet is a close analogy to field strength.\n\n"}
{"id": "1600474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1600474", "title": "Momentum exchange tether", "text": "Momentum exchange tether\n\nA momentum exchange tether is a kind of space tether that could theoretically be used as a launch system, or to change spacecraft orbits. Momentum exchange tethers create a controlled force on the end-masses of the system due to the pseudo-force known as centrifugal force. While the tether system rotates, the objects on either end of the tether will experience continuous acceleration; the magnitude of the acceleration depends on the length of the tether and the rotation rate. Momentum exchange occurs when an end body is released during the rotation. The transfer of momentum to the released object will cause the rotating tether to lose energy, and thus lose velocity and altitude. However, using electrodynamic tether thrusting, or ion propulsion the system can then re-boost itself with little or no expenditure of consumable reaction mass.\n\nA non-rotating tether is a rotating tether that rotates exactly once per orbit so that it always has a vertical orientation relative to the parent body. A spacecraft arriving at the lower end of this tether, or departing from the upper end, will take momentum from the tether, while a spacecraft departing from the lower end of the tether, or arriving at the upper end, will add momentum to the tether. \n\nIn some cases momentum exchange systems are intended to run as balanced transportation schemes where an arriving spacecraft or payload is exchanged with one leaving with the same speed and mass, and then no net change in momentum or angular momentum occurs.\n\nGravity-gradient stabilization, also called \"gravity stabilization\" and \"tidal stabilization\", is a simple and reliable method for controlling the attitude of a satellite that requires no electronic control systems, rocket motors or propellant.\n\nThis type of attitude control tether has a small mass on one end, and a satellite on the other. Tidal forces stretch the tether between the two masses. There are two ways of explaining tidal forces. In one, the upper end mass of the system is moving faster than orbital velocity for its altitude, so centrifugal force makes it want to move further away from the planet it is orbiting. At the same time, the lower end mass of the system is moving at less than orbital speed for its altitude, so it wants to move closer to the planet. The end result is that the tether is under constant tension and wants to hang in a vertical orientation. The other way to explain tidal force is that the top of a tall object weighs less than the bottom, so they are pulled by different amounts. The \"extra\" pull on the \"bottom\" of the object stretches it out. On Earth, these are small effects, but in space, nothing opposes them. Either way, the end result is that the tidal forces stabilize the satellite so that its long dimension points towards the planet it is orbiting. Simple satellites have often been stabilized this way; either with tethers, or with how the mass is distributed within the satellite.\n\nAs with any freely hanging object, it can be disturbed and start to swing. Since there is no atmospheric drag in space to slow the swing, a small bottle of fluid with baffles may be mounted in the spacecraft to damp the pendulum vibrations via the viscous friction of the fluid.\n\nA sky-hook is a theoretical class of orbiting tether propulsion intended to lift payloads to high altitudes and speeds. Proposals for sky-hooks include designs that employ tethers spinning at hyper-sonic speed for catching high speed payloads or high altitude aircraft and placing them in orbit.\n\nIn a strong planetary magnetic field such as around the Earth, a conducting tether can be configured as an electrodynamic tether. This can either be used as a dynamo to generate power for the satellite at the cost of slowing its orbital velocity, or it can be used to increase the orbital velocity of the satellite by putting power into the tether from the satellite's power system. Thus the tether can be used to either accelerate or to slow an orbiting spacecraft without using any rocket propellant.\n\nWhen using this techniques with a rotating tether, the current through the tether must alternate in phase with the rotation rate of the tether in order to produce either a consistent slowing force or a consistent accelerating force.\n\nWhether slowing or accelerating the satellite, the electrodynamic tether pushes against the planet's magnetic field, and thus the momentum gained or lost ultimately comes from the planet.\n\nA Bolo, or rotating tether, is a tether that rotates more than once per orbit and whose endpoints have a significant tip speed (~ 1 – 3 km/s). The maximum speed of the endpoints is limited by the strength of the cable material and the safety factor it is designed for.\n\nThe purpose of the Bolo is to either speed up, or slow down, a spacecraft that docks with it without using any of the spacecraft's on-board propellant and to change the spacecraft's orbital flight path. Effectively, the Bolo acts as a reusable upper stage for any spacecraft that docks with it.\n\nThe momentum imparted to the spacecraft by the Bolo is not free. In the same way that the Bolo changes the spacecraft's momentum and direction of travel, the Bolo's orbital momentum and rotational momentum is also changed, and this costs energy that must be replaced. The idea is that the replacement energy would come from a more efficient and lower cost source than a chemical rocket motor. Two possible lower cost sources for this replacement energy are an ion propulsion system, or an electrodynamic tether propulsion system that would be part of the Bolo. An essentially free source of replacement energy is momentum gathered from payloads to be accelerated in the other direction, suggesting that the need for adding energy from propulsion systems will be quite minimal with balanced, two-way, space commerce.\n\nRotovators are rotating tethers with a rotational direction such that the lower endpoint of the tether is moving slower than the orbital velocity of the tether and the upper endpoint is moving faster. The word is a portmanteau derived from the words \"rotor\" and \"elevator\".\n\nIf the tether is long enough and the rotation rate high enough, it is possible for the lower endpoint to completely cancel the orbital speed of the tether such that the lower endpoint is stationary with respect to the planetary surface that the tether is orbiting. As described by Moravec, this is \"a satellite that rotates like a wheel\". The tip of the tether moves in approximately a cycloid, in which it is momentarily stationary with respect to the ground. In this case, a payload that is \"grabbed\" by a capture mechanism on the rotating tether during the moment when it is stationary would be picked up and lifted into orbit; and potentially could be released at the top of the rotation, at which point it is moving with a speed significantly greater than the escape velocity and thus could be released onto an interplanetary trajectory. (As with the bolo, discussed above, the momentum and energy given to the payload must be made up, either with a high-efficiency rocket engine, or with momentum gathered from payload moving the other direction.)\n\nOn bodies with an atmosphere, such as the Earth, the tether tip must stay above the dense atmosphere. On bodies with reasonably low orbital speed (such as the Moon and possibly Mars), a rotovator in low orbit can potentially touch the ground, thereby providing cheap surface transport as well as launching materials into cislunar space. In January 2000, The Boeing Company completed a study of tether launch systems including two-stage tethers that had been commissioned by the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts.\n\nUnfortunately an Earth-to-orbit rotovator cannot be built from currently available materials since the thickness and tether mass to handle the loads on the rotovator would be uneconomically large. A \"watered down\" rotovator with two-thirds the rotational speed, however, would halve the centripetal acceleration stresses.\n\nTherefore, another trick to achieve lower stresses is that rather than picking up a cargo from the ground at zero velocity, a rotovator could pick up a moving vehicle and sling it into orbit. For example, a rotovator could pick up a Mach 12 aircraft from the upper atmosphere of the Earth and move it into orbit without using rockets, and could likewise catch such a vehicle and lower it into atmospheric flight. It is easier for a rocket to achieve the lower tip speed, so \"single stage to tether\" has been proposed. One such is called the Hyper-sonic Airplane Space Tether Orbital Launch (HASTOL). Either air breathing or rocket to tether could save a great deal of fuel per flight, and would permit for both a simpler vehicle and more cargo.\n\nThe company Tethers Unlimited, Inc. (founded by Robert Forward and Robert P. Hoyt) has called this approach \"Tether Launch Assist\". It has also been referred to as a space bolas.\n\nA space elevator is a space tether that is attached to a planetary body. For example, on Earth, a space elevator would go from the equator to well above geosynchronous orbit.\n\nA space elevator does not need to be powered as a rotovator does, because it gets any required angular momentum from the planetary body. The disadvantage is that it is much longer, and for many planets a space elevator cannot be constructed from known materials. A space elevator on Earth would require material strengths outside current technological limits (2014). Martian and lunar space elevators could be built with modern-day materials however. A space elevator on Phobos has also been proposed.\n\nSpace elevators also have larger amounts of potential energy than a rotovator, and if heavy parts (like a \"dropped wrench\") should fall they would reenter at a steep angle and impact the surface at near orbital speeds. On most anticipated designs, if the cable component itself fell, it would burn up before hitting the ground.\n\nAlthough it might be thought that this requires constant energy input, it can in fact be shown to be energetically favorable to lift cargo off the surface of the Moon and drop it into a lower Earth orbit, and thus it can be achieved without any significant use of propellant, since the Moon's surface is in a comparatively higher potential energy state. Also, this system could be built with a total mass of less than 28 times the mass of the payloads.\n\nRotovators can thus be charged by momentum exchange. Momentum charging uses the rotovator to move mass from a place that is \"higher\" in a gravity field to a place that is \"lower\". The technique to do this uses the Oberth effect, where releasing the payload when the tether is moving with higher linear speed, lower in a gravitational potential gives more specific energy, and ultimately more speed than the energy lost picking up the payload at a higher gravitational potential, even if the rotation rate is the same. For example, it is possible to use a system of two or three rotovators to implement trade between the Moon and Earth. The rotovators are charged by lunar mass (dirt, if exports are not available) dumped on or near the Earth, and can use the momentum so gained to boost Earth goods to the Moon. The momentum and energy exchange can be balanced with equal flows in either direction, or can increase over time.\n\nSimilar systems of rotovators could theoretically open up inexpensive transportation throughout the solar system.\n\nA tether cable catapult system is a system where two or more long conducting tethers are held rigidly in a straight line, attached to a heavy mass. Power is applied to the tethers and is picked up by a vehicle that has linear magnet motors on it, which it uses to push itself along the length of the cable. Near the end of the cable the vehicle releases a payload and slows and stops itself and the payload carries on at very high velocity. The calculated maximum speed for this system is extremely high, more than 30 times the speed of sound in the cable; and velocities of more than 30 km/s seem to be possible.\n"}
{"id": "15870439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15870439", "title": "Motif (narrative)", "text": "Motif (narrative)\n\nIn narrative, a motif is any recurring element that has symbolic significance in a story. Through its repetition, a motif can help produce other narrative (or literary) aspects such as theme or mood.\n\nA narrative motif can be created through the use of imagery, structural components, language, and other narrative elements. The flute in Arthur Miller's play \"Death of a Salesman\" is a recurrent sound motif that conveys rural and idyllic notions. Another example from modern American literature is the green light found in the novel \"The Great Gatsby\" by F. Scott Fitzgerald.\n\nNarratives may include multiple motifs of varying types. In Shakespeare's play \"Macbeth\", he uses a variety of narrative elements to create many different motifs. Imagistic references to blood and water are continually repeated. The phrase \"fair is foul, and foul is fair\" is echoed at many points in the play, a combination that mixes the concepts of good and evil. The play also features the central motif of the washing of hands, one that combines both verbal images and the movement of the actors.\n\nIn a narrative, a motif establishes a pattern of ideas that may serve different conceptual purposes in different works. Kurt Vonnegut, for example, in his non-linear narratives such as \"Slaughterhouse-Five\" and \"Cat's Cradle\" makes frequent use of \"motif\" to connect different moments that might seem otherwise separated by time and space. In the American science fiction cult classic \"Blade Runner\", director Ridley Scott uses motifs to not only establish a dark and shadowy film noir atmosphere, but also to weave together the thematic complexities of the plot. Throughout the film, the recurring motif of \"eyes\" is connected to a constantly changing flow of images, and sometimes violent manipulations, in order to call into question our ability, and the narrator's own, to accurately perceive and understand reality.\n\nAny number of narrative elements with symbolic significance can be classified as motifs—whether they are images, spoken or written phrases, structural or stylistic devices, or other elements like sound, physical movement, or visual components in dramatic narratives. While it may appear interchangeable with the related concept \"theme\", a general rule is that a theme is abstract and a motif is concrete. A theme is usually defined as a message, statement, or idea, while a motif is simply a detail repeated for larger symbolic meaning. In other words, a narrative motif—a detail repeated in a pattern of meaning—can produce a theme; but it can also create other narrative aspects. Nevertheless, the distinction between the two terms remains difficult to pinpoint. For instance, the term \"thematic patterning\" has been used to describe the way in which \"recurrent thematic concepts\" are patterned to produce meaning, such as the \"moralistic motifs\" found throughout the stories of \"One Thousand and One Nights\".\n\n"}
{"id": "980435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980435", "title": "Naturalistic observation", "text": "Naturalistic observation\n\nNaturalistic observation is, in contrast to analog observation, a research tool in which a subject is observed in its natural habitat without any manipulation by the observer. During naturalistic observation, researchers take great care to avoid interfering with the behavior they are observing by using unobtrusive methods. Naturalistic observation involves two main differences that set it apart from other forms of data gathering. In the context of a naturalistic observation, the environment is in no way being manipulated by the observer nor was it created by the observer.\nNaturalistic observation, as a research tool, comes with both advantages and disadvantages that impact its application. By merely observing at a given instance without any manipulation in its natural context, it makes the behaviors exhibited more credible because they are occurring in a real, typical scenario as opposed to an artificial one generated within a lab. Naturalistic observation also allows for study of events that are deemed unethical to study via experimental models, such as the impact of high school shootings on students attending the high school. Naturalistic observation is used in many techniques, from watching an animal's eating patterns in the forest to observing the behavior of students in a school setting.\n\n"}
{"id": "6475900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6475900", "title": "Negative pregnant", "text": "Negative pregnant\n\nA negative pregnant (sometimes called a pregnant denial) refers to a denial which implies its affirmative opposite by seeming to deny only a qualification of the allegation and not the allegation itself. For example, \"I deny that I owe the plaintiff five hundred dollars\" might imply that the person making the statement owes some other sum of money, and was only denying that they owe that particular amount. \n\nA negative pregnant which appears in pleadings will often elicit a request for further and better particulars, or an interrogatory. In order to avoid a negative pregnant in the above example, one might instead say, \"I deny that I owe the plaintiff five hundred dollars, or any other sum of money.\"\n\nThe issue can also arise in the context of statutory interpretation. For instance, Justice Thurgood Marshall argues in his dissent to \"EEOC v. Aramco\" that the presumption against extraterritoriality is rebutted by a negative inference from the alien-exemption provision of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which states that Title VII \"shall not apply to an employer with respect to the employment of aliens outside any State.\" Marshall concludes that \"Absent an intention that Title VII \"apply\" 'outside any State,' Congress would have had no reason to craft this extraterritorial exemption. And because only discrimination against aliens is exempted, employers remain accountable for discrimination against United States citizens abroad.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "7031578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7031578", "title": "Netocracy", "text": "Netocracy\n\nNetocracy was a term invented by the editorial board of the American technology magazine \"Wired\" in the early 1990s. A portmanteau of \"Internet\" and \"aristocracy\", \"netocracy\" refers to a perceived global upper-class that bases its power on a technological advantage and networking skills, in comparison to what is portrayed as a bourgeoisie of a gradually diminishing importance.\n\nThe concept was later picked up and redefined by the Swedish philosophers Alexander Bard and Jan Söderqvist for their book \"Netocracy — The New Power Elite and Life After Capitalism\" (originally published in Swedish in 2000 as \"Nätokraterna - boken om det elektroniska klassamhället\", published in English by Reuters/Pearsall UK in 2002).\n\nThe netocracy concept has been compared with Richard Florida's concept of the creative class. Bard and Söderqvist have also defined an under-class in opposition to the netocracy, which they refer to as the consumtariat.\n\nAlexander Bard describes a new underclass called the consumtariat, a portmanteau of consumer and proletariat, whose main activity is consumption, regulated from above. It is kept occupied with private problems, its desires provoked with the use of adverts and its active participation is limited to things like product choice, product customization, engaging with interactive products and life-style choice.\n\nSimilar to Netocracy, is the concept of Cyberdeutocracy. Karl W. Deutsch in his book The Nerves of Government: Models of Political Communication and Control hypothesized about “information elites, controlling means of mass communication and, accordingly, power institutions, the functioning of which is based on the use of information in their activities.” Thus Deutsch introduced the concept of deutocracy, combining the words ‘ Deutsch’ and ‘ autocracy’ to get the new term\nCombining terms 'deutocracy' and ‘ autocracy’ one can get a new term cyberdeutocracy. It is defined as a political regime, based on the control of the political and corporate elites of the information and communication infrastructure of the Internet space. \nCyberdeutocracy, thus as its fundamental basis has such a resource as the global and managed virtual communication space within which the destruction of the existing, transformation, generation, and introduction in the public consciousness of alternative meanings, symbols, values, and ideas takes place, that shape perception society of political reality take place.The term was first introduced by Phillip Freiberg, in his article that analyzed alleged Russian cyber involvement in 2016 U.S. elections, as well as banning people from social networks based on their political views.\nNetocracy can also refer to \"Internet-enabled democracy\" where issue-based politics will supersede party-based politics.\n\nThe word \"netocracy\" is also used as a portmanteau of \"Internet\" and \"democracy\", not of \"Internet\" and \"aristocracy\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1245860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245860", "title": "New World Information and Communication Order", "text": "New World Information and Communication Order\n\nThe New World Information and Communication Order (NWICO or NWIO), also known as the MacBride Commission, is a term that was coined in a debate over media representations of the developing world in UNESCO in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The term was widely used by the MacBride Commission, a UNESCO panel chaired by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Sean MacBride, which was charged with creation of a set of recommendations to make global media representation more equitable. The MacBride Commission produced a report titled \"Many Voices, One World\", which outlined the main philosophical points of the New World Information Communication Order.\n\nThe fundamental issues of imbalances in global communication had been discussed for some time. The American media scholar Wilbur Schramm noted in 1964 that the flow of news among nations is thin, that much attention is given to developed countries and little to less-developed ones, that important events are ignored and reality is distorted. From a more radical perspective, Herbert Schiller observed in 1969 that developing countries had little meaningful input into decisions about radio frequency allocations for satellites at a key meeting in Geneva in 1962. Schiller pointed out that many satellites had military applications. Intelsat which was set up for international co-operation in satellite communication, was also dominated by the United States. In the 1970s these and other issues were taken up by the Non-Aligned Movement and debated within the United Nations and UNESCO.\n\nNWICO grew out of the New International Economic Order of 1974. From 1976-1978, the New World Information and Communication Order was generally called the shorter New World Information Order or the New International Information Order.\n\nThe start of this discussion is the New World Information and Communication Order (NWICO) as associated with the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) starting from the early 1970s.\n\nMass media concerns began with the meeting of non-aligned nations in Algiers, 1973; again in Tunis 1976, and later in 1976 at the New Delhi Ministerial Conference of Non-Aligned Nations.\n\nThe 'new order' plan was textually formulated by Tunisia's Information Minister Mustapha Masmoudi. Masmoudi submitted working paper No. 31 to the MacBride Commission. These proposals of 1978 were titled the 'Mass Media Declaration.' The MacBride Commission at the time was a 16-member body created by UNESCO to study communication issues.\n\nAmong those involved in the movement were the Latin American Institute for the Study of Transnationals (ILET). One of its co-founders, Juan Somavia was a member of the MacBride Commission. Another important voice was Mustapha Masmoudi, the Information Minister for Tunisia. In a Canadian radio program in 1983, Tom McPhail describes how the issues were pressed within UNESCO in the mid-1970s when the United States withheld funding to punish the organization for excluding Israel from a regional group of UNESCO. Some OPEC countries and a few socialist countries made up the amount of money and were able to get senior positions within UNESCO. NWICO issues were then advanced at an important meeting in 1976 held in Costa Rica.\n\nThe only woman member of the Commission was Betty Zimmerman, representing Canada because of the illness of Marshall McLuhan, who died in 1980. The movement was kept alive through the 1980s by meetings of the MacBride Round Table on Communication, even though by then the leadership of UNESCO distanced itself from its ideas.\n\nThe UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity of 2005 puts into effect some of the goals of NWICO, especially with regard to the unbalanced global flow of mass media. However, this convention was not supported by the United States, and it does not appear to be as robust as World Trade Organization agreements that support global trade in mass media and information.\n\nA wide range of issues were raised as part of NWICO discussions. Some of these involved long-standing issues of media coverage of the developing world and unbalanced flows of media influence. But other issues involved new technologies with important military and commercial uses. The developing world was likely to be marginalized by satellite and computer technologies. The issues included:\n\n\nThe United States was hostile to NWICO. According to some analysts, the United States saw these issues simply as barriers to the free flow of communication and to the interests of American media corporations. It disagreed with the MacBride report at points where it questioned the role of the private sector in communications. It viewed the NWICO as dangerous to freedom of the press by ultimately putting an organization run by governments at the head of controlling global media, potentially allowing for censorship on a large scale. From another perspective, the MacBride Commission recommendations requiring the licensing of journalists amounted to prior censorship and ran directly counter to basic US law on the freedom of expression.\n\nThere were also accusations of corruption at the highest level of UNESCO leadership in Paris. The US eventually withdrew its membership in UNESCO (as did the United Kingdom and Singapore) at the end of 1984. The matter was complicated by debates within UNESCO about Israel's archaeological work in the city of Jerusalem, and about the Apartheid regime in South Africa. The United States rejoined in 2003.\n\nThe debate on the NWICO that started in the 1970s reflected criticism about non-equitable access to information and media imperialism. The NWICO saw the United Kingdom and the United States back out of UNESCO until 1997 for the UK and 2003 for the US. In 1990-2000, a switch occurred globally, carried by the Internet that contributed to bring more equity to the available content. This was supported by the extension of media powers to developing countries such as Mexico, Korea, Kenya and Nigeria; by the adoption of protectionist measures in regards to the free market by western countries like Canada and France; and with the rise of satellite broadcasting as a transnational means for non-western countries. \n\nThis tendency has reached its peak in the 1991 Windhoek Declaration. The Windhoek Declaration for the Development of a Free, Independent and Pluralistic Press is a statement of press freedom principles by African newspaper journalists. African diplomats in Paris (UNESCO), Geneva (ECOSOC) and New York’s (UN General Assembly) commitment has been crucial to the success of the Windhoek process. UNESCO endorsed the Windhoek Declaration and United Nations General Assembly recognized the 3 May, date of the Declaration, as “World Press Freedom Day”. The Windhoek Declaration has had other significant impacts in the media field. UNESCO adopted the Windhoek framework concerning media development, characterizing it by freedom, pluralism and independence. \n\nThe Windhoek Declaration is implemented through the Media Development Indicators (MDIs) framework developed by the International Programme for the Development of Communication Intergovernmental Council in 2006. Resonating with the NWICO, the MDIs help assessing the priority areas for media development that are the promotion of freedom of expression and media pluralism, the development of community media and of human resources. \n\nAs a result of the “Many Voices, One World” 1980 report UNESCO’s General Conference launched the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) the same year in Belgrade. The Programme was adopted by 39 Member States and aimed at strengthening the development of mass media in developing countries. Its mandate since 2003 is “... to contribute to sustainable development, democracy and good governance by fostering universal access to and distribution of information and knowledge by strengthening the capacities of the developing countries and countries in transition in the field of electronic media and the printed press.” \n\nThreats on journalists are one of the major issues blocking media development. Since 2008, UNESCO Member States submit information on the status of the judicial inquiries conducted on each of the journalists killings condemned by the Organization. This information is included in a public report submitted every two years to the IPDC Council by the Director-General and is basis to the Programme's follow-up to killings of journalists. \n\nTechnological developments have direct effects on access to information and on privacy. Access to information is the ability for an individual to seek, receive and impart information effectively. According to Guy Berger, “access to digital means of communication, even within the limits established by platform owners, is unprecedented”. There has been a signiﬁcant increase in access to the Internet, which reached just over three billion users in 2014, amounting to about 42 per cent of the world’s population. Nevertheless, issues remain such as the digital divide, the gender divide and the security argument. A digital divide is an economic and social inequality with regard to access to, use of, or impact of information and communication technologies (ICT). Social barriers such as illiteracy and lack of digital empowerment have created stark inequalities between men and women in navigating the tools used for access to information: it’s the gender divide. With the evolution of the digital age, application of freedom of speech and its corollaries (freedom of information, access to information) becomes more controversial as new means of communication and restrictions arise including government control or commercial methods putting personal information to danger. \n\nThe increasing access to and reliance on digital media to receive and produce information have increased the possibilities for States and private sector companies to track individuals’ behaviors, opinions and networks. States have increasingly adopted laws and policies to legalize monitoring of communication, justifying these practices with the need to defend their own citizens and national interests. In parts of Europe, new anti-terrorism laws have enabled a greater degree of government surveillance and an increase in the ability of intelligence authorities to access citizens’ data. While legality is a precondition for legitimate limitations of human rights, the issue is also whether a given law is aligned to other criteria for justification such as necessity, proportionality and legitimate purpose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1173697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1173697", "title": "Nueva Planta decrees", "text": "Nueva Planta decrees\n\nThe Nueva Planta decrees (, ) were a number of decrees signed between 1707 and 1716 by Philip V—the first Bourbon King of Spain—during and shortly after the end of the War of the Spanish Succession by the Treaty of Utrecht.\n\nAngered by what he saw as sedition by the Aragonese and taking his native France as a model of a centralised state, King Felipe V suppressed the institutions, privileges, and the ancient charters (Spanish: \"fueros\", Catalan: \"furs\") of almost all the areas that were formerly part of the Crown of Aragon (Aragon, Catalonia, Valencia, and the Balearic Islands). The decrees ruled that all the territories in the Crown of Aragon except the Aran Valley were to be ruled by the laws of Castile (\"the most praiseworthy in all the Universe\" according to the 1707 decree), embedding these regions in a new, and nearly uniformly administered, centralised Spain.\n\nThe other historic territories—Navarre and the other Basque territories—supported Felipe V initially, whom they saw as belonging to the lineage of Henry III of Navarre, but after Felipe V's military campaign to crush the Basque uprising, he backed down on his intent to suppress home rule.\n\nThe acts abolishing the charters were promulgated in 1707 in Valencia and Aragon, in 1715 in Majorca and the other Balearic Islands (with the exception of Menorca, a possession of the Kingdom of Great Britain at the time), and finally in Catalonia on 16 January 1716.\n\nThe decrees effectively created a Spanish citizenship or nationality, that judicially did not distinguish between Castilian and Aragonese anymore, both with respect to rights and law. They abolished internal borders and customs except for the Basque territory, giving grant to all Spaniards to trade with American colonies (not only Castilians, as before).\n\nFelipe of Bourbon won the War of the Spanish Succession and imposed unification policies over the Crown of Aragon, which had supported the claim of Karl of Austria. These acts constituted the first successful realisation of Spain as a centralised state and were meant both as a modernising element, in line with other European countries where their monarchs were increasing their powers, and also as a punishment on these territories which had fought against Felipe V in the War of Succession. Henceforth, top civil servants were appointed directly from Madrid, the King's court city, and most institutions in these territories were abolished. Court cases could only be presented and argued in Castilian, which became the sole language of government, displacing Latin, Catalan and other Spanish languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6571910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6571910", "title": "Outline of self", "text": "Outline of self\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the self:\n\nSelf – an individual person, from his or her own perspective. To you, self is you. To a different person, self is that person. One's self is a subject of philosophy; psychology and developmental psychology; religion and spirituality; social science and neuroscience.\n\n\n\nPersonal identity\n\nPersonality\n\nPersonality trait\n\nBig Five personality traits\n\nVirtue – characteristic of a person which supports individual moral excellence and collective well being. Such characteristics are valued as a principle and recognized as a good way to be. This list is necessarily incomplete.\n\n\n\nPersonal experience\n\nPersonal life\n\nSelf-actualization –\n\nSelf-management –\n\n\nIndividual rights – much of the western world values the concept of individual rights. These rights vary from culture to culture, and by very definition, from person to person, and appear mainly in individualist societies. In considering the self, the most intimate legal relation would be what is codified as 'sui juris', or what laws have a purposed place so far as they are derived of the self. In such cultures, it is generally considered that each and every individual has the following rights:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5075551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075551", "title": "Perfect set", "text": "Perfect set\n\nIn mathematics, in the field of topology, a subset of a topological space is perfect if it is closed and has no isolated points. Equivalently: the set formula_1 is perfect if formula_2, where formula_3 denotes the set of all limit points of formula_1, also known as the derived set of formula_1.\n\nIn a perfect set, every point can be approximated arbitrarily well by other points from the set: given any point of formula_1 and any topological neighborhood of the point, there is another point of formula_1 that lies within the neighborhood.\n\nNote that the term \"perfect space\" is also used, incompatibly, to refer to other properties of a topological space, such as being a G space. \n\nExamples of perfect subsets of the real line formula_8 are: the empty set, all closed intervals, the real line itself, and the Cantor set. The latter is noteworthy in that it is totally disconnected.\n\nCantor proved that every closed subset of the real line can be uniquely written as the disjoint union of a perfect set and a countable set. This is also true more generally for all closed subsets of Polish spaces, in which case the theorem is known as the Cantor–Bendixson theorem.\n\nCantor also showed that every non-empty perfect subset of the real line has cardinality formula_9, the cardinality of the continuum. These results are extended in descriptive set theory as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47570660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47570660", "title": "Raúl Cordero", "text": "Raúl Cordero\n\nRaúl Cordero (born 1971) is a Cuban born conceptual painter. First known as part of the 90s generation in Cuba, when he started exhibiting his work mostly in Europe and the United States of America. Cordero represents through his work the \"other Cuban art.\" Far from the standards of the Cuban Revolution art, and without falling into topics of other artists from in and out of the island, Cordero samples pretexts whimsically obtained from various referential origins (press, magazines, books, TV, photography and video) and shows us his work as a result of recycling, of a revival, creating a new reality that refers more to art than to any other apparent content.\n\nHis art education started in Havana (Academia San Alejandro and Instituto Superior de Diseño) and his influences mix an interest in conceptual American artists such as John Baldessari, Bruce Nauman or Chris Burden -who later informed his conceptual training- together with elements of the 12th century's Flemish painting tradition, acquired during his postgraduate formation in the Netherlands (Graphic Media Development Centre and Rijksakademie Van Beeldende Kunsten). Cordero has held visiting professorships at the Instituto Superior de Arte (ISA) in Havana, Cuba; The San Francisco Art Institute, California and The Art Academy of Cincinnati, in Ohio, U.S.A.\n\nHis work features in the collection of several museums such as Musée National D’Art Moderne Centre Pompidou, Paris, France, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes de La Habana, Cuba, Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA), Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles (MOCA), California, Stedelijk Museum voor Actuele Kunst (SMAK). Ghent, Belgium, Centro Atlántico de Arte Moderno and Museo Extremeño Iberoamericano de Arte Contemporáneo (MEIAC), Spain, Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego, California, U.S.A. The National Museum of Fine Arts in Havana is currently building a large exhibition of Cordero's work, which was scheduled to open in November 2017. Cordero is represented by Mai 36 Galerie in Zürich, Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10504683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10504683", "title": "Representation (systemics)", "text": "Representation (systemics)\n\nRepresentation, from the most general and abstract systemic perspective, relates to a role or function or a property of an abstract or real object, relation or changes. \n\nFor example, \n\nIn the case of humans or human-made objects, a representation can be:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45257241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45257241", "title": "Scottish Landfill Tax", "text": "Scottish Landfill Tax\n\nScottish Landfill Tax (SLfT) is a tax which is charged in Scotland under the Landfill Tax (Scotland) Act 2014. It replaced the UK Landfill Tax from 1 April 2015.\n\nRevenue Scotland administers and collects SLfT with support from the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA).\n\nThe rates of Scottish Landfill Tax (given in £/tonne) are £84.40 (standard rate) and £2.65 (lower rate) from 1 April 2016, increased from the preceding year's rates of £82.60 and £2.60 respectively\n\n"}
{"id": "26221731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26221731", "title": "Secondary vector bundle structure", "text": "Secondary vector bundle structure\n\nIn mathematics, particularly differential topology, the secondary vector bundle structure\nrefers to the natural vector bundle structure on the total space \"TE\" of the tangent bundle of a smooth vector bundle , induced by the push-forward of the original projection map .\nThis gives rise to a double vector bundle structure .\n\nIn the special case , where is the double tangent bundle, the secondary vector bundle is isomorphic to the tangent bundle\n\nLet be a smooth vector bundle of rank . Then the preimage of any tangent vector in in the push-forward of the canonical projection is a smooth submanifold of dimension , and it becomes a vector space with the push-forwards\n\nof the original addition and scalar multiplication\n\nas its vector space operations. The triple becomes a smooth vector bundle with these vector space operations on its fibres.\n\nLet be a local coordinate system on the base manifold with and let\n\nbe a coordinate system on formula_4 adapted to it. Then\n\nso the fiber of the secondary vector bundle structure at in is of the form\n\nNow it turns out that\n\ngives a local trivialization for , and the push-forwards of the original vector space operations read in the adapted coordinates as\n\nand\n\nso each fibre is a vector space and the triple is a smooth vector bundle.\n\nThe general Ehresmann connection on a vector bundle can be characterized in terms of the connector map\n\nwhere is the vertical lift, and is the vertical projection. The mapping\n\ninduced by an Ehresmann connection is a covariant derivative on in the sense that\n\nif and only if the connector map is linear with respect to the secondary vector bundle structure on . Then the connection is called \"linear\". Note that the connector map is automatically linear with respect to the tangent bundle structure .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55206702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55206702", "title": "Seidel's algorithm", "text": "Seidel's algorithm\n\nSeidel's algorithm is an algorithm designed by Raimund Seidel in 1992 for the all-pairs-shortest-path problem for undirected, unweighted, connected graphs. It solves the problem in formula_1 expected time for a graph with formula_2 vertices, where formula_3 is the exponent in the complexity formula_4 of formula_5 matrix multiplication. If only the distances between each pair of vertices are sought, the same time bound can be achieved in the worst case. Note that even though the algorithm is designed for connected graphs, it can be applied individually to each connected component of a graph with the same running time overall. Note also that there is an exception to the expected running time given above for computing the paths: if formula_6 the expected running time becomes formula_7.\n\nThe core of the algorithm is a procedure that computes the length of the shortest-paths between any pair of vertices.\nThis can be done in formula_1 time in the worst case. Once the lengths are computed, the paths can be reconstructed using a Las Vegas algorithm whose expected running time is formula_1 for formula_10 and formula_7 for formula_6.\n\nThe python code below assumes the input graph is given as a formula_13 formula_14-formula_15 adjacency matrix formula_16 with zeros on the diagonal. It defines the function APD which returns a matrix with entries formula_17 such that formula_17 is the length of the shortest path between the vertices formula_19 and formula_20. The matrix class used can be any matrix class implementation supporting the multiplication, exponentiation, and indexing operators (for example numpy.matrix).\ndef APD ( A , n ):\nThe base case tests whether the input adjacency matrix describes a complete graph, in which case all shortest paths have length formula_15.\n\nAlgorithms for undirected and directed graphs with weights from a finite universe formula_22 also exist. The best known algorithm for the directed case is in time formula_23 by Zwick in 1998. This algorithm uses rectangular matrix multiplication instead of square matrix multiplication. Better upper bounds can be obtained if one uses the best rectangular matrix multiplication algorithm available instead of achieving rectangular multiplication via multiple square matrix multiplications. The best known algorithm for the undirected case is in time formula_24 by Shoshan and Zwick in 1999. The original implementation of this algorithm was erroneous and has been corrected by Eirinakis, Williamson, and Subramani in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "7649384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7649384", "title": "Self-reconfiguring modular robot", "text": "Self-reconfiguring modular robot\n\nModular self-reconfiguring robotic systems or self-reconfigurable modular robots are autonomous kinematic machines with variable morphology. Beyond conventional actuation, sensing and control typically found in fixed-morphology robots, self-reconfiguring robots are also able to deliberately change their own shape by rearranging the connectivity of their parts, in order to adapt to new circumstances, perform new tasks, or recover from damage.\n\nFor example, a robot made of such components could assume a worm-like shape to move through a narrow pipe, reassemble into something with spider-like legs to cross uneven terrain, then form a third arbitrary object (like a ball or wheel that can spin itself) to move quickly over a fairly flat terrain; it can also be used for making \"fixed\" objects, such as walls, shelters, or buildings.\n\nIn some cases this involves each module having 2 or more connectors for connecting several together. They can contain electronics, sensors, computer processors, memory and power supplies; they can also contain actuators that are used for manipulating their location in the environment and in relation with each other. A feature found in some cases is the ability of the modules to automatically connect and disconnect themselves to and from each other, and to form into many objects or perform many tasks moving or manipulating the environment.\n\nBy saying \"self-reconfiguring\" or \"self-reconfigurable\" it means that the mechanism or device is capable of utilizing its own system of control such as with actuators or stochastic means to change its overall structural shape. Having the quality of being \"modular\" in \"self-reconfiguring modular robotics\" is to say that the same module or set of modules can be added to or removed from the system, as opposed to being generically \"modularized\" in the broader sense. The underlying intent is to have an indefinite number of identical modules, or a finite and relatively small set of identical modules, in a mesh or matrix structure of self-reconfigurable modules.\n\nSelf-reconfiguration is different from the concept of self-replication, which is not a quality that a self-reconfigurable module or collection of modules needs to possess. A matrix of modules does not need to be able to increase the quantity of modules in its matrix to be considered self-reconfigurable. It is sufficient for self-reconfigurable modules to be produced at a conventional factory, where dedicated machines stamp or mold components that are then assembled into a module, and added to an existing matrix in order to supplement it to increase the quantity or to replace worn out modules.\n\nA matrix made up of many modules can separate to form multiple matrices with fewer modules, or they can combine, or recombine, to form a larger matrix. Some advantages of separating into multiple matrices include the ability to tackle multiple and simpler tasks at locations that are remote from each other simultaneously, transferring through barriers with openings that are too small for a single larger matrix to fit through but not too small for smaller matrix fragments or individual modules, and energy saving purposes by only utilizing enough modules to accomplish a given task. Some advantages of combining multiple matrices into a single matrix is ability to form larger structures such as an elongated bridge, more complex structures such as a robot with many arms or an arm with more degrees of freedom, and increasing strength. Increasing strength, in this sense, can be in the form of increasing the rigidity of a fixed or static structure, increasing the net or collective amount of force for raising, lowering, pushing, or pulling another object, or another part of the matrix, or any combination of these features.\n\nThere are two basic methods of segment articulation that self-reconfigurable mechanisms can utilize to reshape their structures: chain reconfiguration and lattice reconfiguration.\n\nModular robots are usually composed of multiple building blocks of a relatively small repertoire, with uniform docking interfaces that allow transfer of mechanical forces and moments, electrical power and communication throughout the robot.\n\nThe modular building blocks usually consist of some primary structural actuated unit, and potentially additional specialized units such as grippers, feet, wheels, cameras, payload and energy storage and generation.\n\nModular self-reconfiguring robotic systems can be generally classified into several architectural groups by the geometric arrangement of their unit (lattice vs. chain). Several systems exhibit hybrid properties, and modular robots have also been classified into the two categories of Mobile Configuration Change (MCC) and Whole Body Locomotion (WBL).\n\n\nModular robotic systems can also be classified according to the way by which units are reconfigured (moved) into place.\n\n\nModular robotic systems are also generally classified depending on the design of the modules.\n\n\nOther modular robotic systems exist which are not self-reconfigurable, and thus do not formally belong to this family of robots though they may have similar appearance. For example, self-assembling systems may be composed of multiple modules but cannot dynamically control their target shape. Similarly, tensegrity robotics may be composed of multiple interchangeable modules but cannot self-reconfigure.\n\nThere are two key motivations for designing modular self-reconfiguring robotic systems.\n\n\n\nBoth these advantages have not yet been fully realized. A modular robot is likely to be inferior in performance to any single custom robot tailored for a specific task. However, the advantage of modular robotics is only apparent when considering multiple tasks that would normally require a set of different robots.\n\nThe added degrees of freedom make modular robots more versatile in their potential capabilities, but also incur a performance tradeoff and increased mechanical and computational complexities.\n\nThe quest for self-reconfiguring robotic structures is to some extent inspired by envisioned applications such as long-term space missions, that require long-term self-sustaining robotic ecology that can handle unforeseen situations and may require self repair. A second source of inspiration are biological systems that are self-constructed out of a relatively small repertoire of lower-level building blocks (cells or amino acids, depending on scale of interest). This architecture underlies biological systems' ability to physically adapt, grow, heal, and even self replicate – capabilities that would be desirable in many engineered systems.\n\nManufacturer operating in the self-reconfiguring modular robot industry include ABB Ltd., Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd., Yaskawa Electric Corporation, Fanuc Corporation, Kuka AG, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Denso Corporation, Nachi-Fujikoshi Corp., Comau S.P.A., Universal Robots A/S, and CMA Robotics S.P.A. \n\nGiven these advantages, where would a modular self-reconfigurable system be used? While the system has the promise of being capable of doing a wide variety of things, finding the \"killer application\" has been somewhat elusive. Here are several examples:\n\nOne application that highlights the advantages of self-reconfigurable systems is long-term space missions. These require long-term self-sustaining robotic ecology that can handle unforeseen situations and may require self repair. Self-reconfigurable systems have the ability to handle tasks that are not known a priori, especially compared to fixed configuration systems. In addition, space missions are highly volume- and mass-constrained. Sending a robot system that can reconfigure to achieve many tasks may be more effective than sending many robots that each can do one task.\n\nAnother example of an application has been coined \"telepario\" by CMU professors Todd Mowry and Seth Goldstein. What the researchers propose to make are moving, physical,\nthree-dimensional replicas of people or objects, so lifelike that human senses would accept them as real. This would eliminate the need for cumbersome virtual reality gear and overcome the viewing angle limitations of modern 3D approaches. The replicas would mimic the shape and appearance of a person or object being imaged in real time, and as the originals moved, so would their replicas. One aspect of this application is that the main development thrust is geometric representation rather than applying forces to the environment as in a typical robotic manipulation task. This project is widely known as claytronics or Programmable matter (noting that programmable matter is a much more general term, encompassing functional programmable materials, as well).\n\nA third long term vision for these systems has been called \"bucket of stuff\". In this vision, consumers of the future have a container of self-reconfigurable modules say in their garage, basement, or attic. When the need arises, the consumer calls forth the robots to achieve a task such as \"clean the gutters\" or \"change the oil in the car\" and the robot assumes the shape needed and does the task.\n\nThe roots of the concept of modular self-reconfigurable robots can be traced back to the \"quick change\" end effector and automatic tool changers in computer numerical controlled machining centers in the 1970s. Here, special modules each with a common connection mechanism could be automatically swapped out on the end of a robotic arm. However, taking the basic concept of the common connection mechanism and applying it to the whole robot was introduced by Toshio Fukuda with the CEBOT (short for cellular robot) in the late 1980s.\n\nThe early 1990s saw further development from Greg Chirikjian, Mark Yim, Joseph Michael, and Satoshi Murata. Chirikjian, Michael, and Murata developed lattice reconfiguration systems and Yim developed a chain based system. While these researchers started with from a mechanical engineering emphasis, designing and building modules then developing code to program them, the work of Daniela Rus and Wei-min Shen developed hardware but had a greater impact on the programming aspects. They started a trend towards provable or verifiable distributed algorithms for the control of large numbers of modules.\n\nOne of the more interesting hardware platforms recently has been the MTRAN II and III systems developed by Satoshi Murata et al. This system is a hybrid chain and lattice system. It has the advantage of being able to achieve tasks more easily like chain systems, yet reconfigure like a lattice system.\n\nMore recently new efforts in stochastic self-assembly have been pursued by Hod Lipson and Eric Klavins. A large effort at Carnegie Mellon University headed by Seth Goldstein and Todd Mowry has started looking at issues in developing millions of modules.\n\nMany tasks have been shown to be achievable, especially with chain reconfiguration modules. This demonstrates the versatility of these systems however, the other two advantages, robustness and low cost have not been demonstrated. In general the prototype systems developed in the labs have been fragile and expensive as would be expected during any initial development.\n\nThere is a growing number of research groups actively involved in modular robotics research. To date, about 30 systems have been designed and constructed, some of which are shown below.\n\nA chain self-reconfiguration system. Each module is about 50 mm on a side, and has 1 rotational DOF. It is part of the PolyBot modular robot family that has demonstrated many modes of locomotion including walking: biped, 14 legged, slinky-like, snake-like: concertina in a gopher hole, inchworm gaits, rectilinear undulation and sidewinding gaits, rolling like a tread at up to 1.4 m/s, riding a tricycle, climbing: stairs, poles pipes, ramps etc. More information can be found at the polybot webpage at PARC.\nA hybrid type self-reconfigurable system. Each module is two cube size (65 mm side), and has 2 rotational DOF and 6 flat surfaces for connection. It is the 3rd M-TRAN prototypes. Compared with the former (M-TRAN II), speed and reliability of connection is largely improved. As a chain type system, locomotion by CPG (Central Pattern Generator) controller in various shapes has been demonstrated by M-TRAN II. As a lattice type system, it can change its configuration, e.g., between a 4 legged walker to a caterpillar like robot. See the M-TRAN webpage at AIST.\n\n\nAMOEBA-I, a three-module reconfigurable mobile robot was developed in Shenyang Institute of Automation (SIA), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) by Liu J G et al..AMOEBA-I has nine kinds of non-isomorphic configurations and high mobility under unstructured environments.Four generations of its platform have been developed and a series of researches have been carried out on their reconfiguration mechanism, non-isomorphic configurations, tipover stability, and reconfiguration planning. Experiments have demonstrated that such kind structure permits good mobility and high flexibility to uneven terrain. Being hyper-redundant, modularized and reconfigurable, AMOEBA-I has many possible applications such as Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) and space exploration.\nRef_1: see ;\nRef_2: see \n\nStochastic-3D (2005)\n\nHigh spatial resolution for arbitrary three-dimensional shape formation with modular robots can be accomplished using lattice system with large quantities of very small, prospectively microscopic modules. At small scales, and with large quantities of modules, deterministic control over reconfiguration of individual modules will become unfeasible, while stochastic mechanisms will naturally prevail. Microscopic size of modules will make the use of electromagnetic actuation and interconnection prohibitive, as well, as the use of on-board power storage.\n\nThree large scale prototypes were built in attempt to demonstrate dynamically programmable three-dimensional stochastic reconfiguration in a neutral-buoyancy environment. The first prototype used electromagnets for module reconfiguration and interconnection. The modules were 100 mm cubes and weighed 0.81 kg. The second prototype used stochastic fluidic reconfiguration and interconnection mechanism. Its 130 mm cubic modules weighed 1.78 kg each and made reconfiguration experiments excessively slow. The current third implementation inherits the fluidic reconfiguration principle. The lattice grid size is 80 mm, and the reconfiguration experiments are under way.\n\nMolecubes (2005)\n\nThis hybrid self-reconfiguring system was built by the Cornell Computational Synthesis Lab to physically demonstrate artificial kinematic self-reproduction. Each module is a 0.65 kg cube with 100 mm long edges and one rotational degree of freedom. The axis of rotation is aligned with the cube's longest diagonal. Physical self-reproduction of a three- and a four-module robots was demonstrated. It was also shown that, disregarding the gravity constraints, an infinite number of self-reproducing chain meta-structures can be built from Molecubes. More information can be found at the CCSL Self-Replication webpage.\n\nThe Programmable Parts (2005)\n\nThe programmable parts are stirred randomly on an air-hockey table by randomly actuated air jets. When they collide and stick, they can communicate and decide whether to stay stuck, or if and when to detach. Local interaction rules can be devised and optimized to guide the robots to make any desired global shape. More information can be found at the programmable parts web page.\n\nSuperBot (2006)\n\nThe SuperBot modules fall into the hybrid architecture. The modules have three degrees of freedom each. The design is based on two previous systems: Conro (by the same research group) and MTRAN (by Murata et al.). Each module can connect to another module through one of its six dock connectors. They can communicate and share power through their dock connectors. Several locomotion gaits have been developed for different arrangements of modules. For high-level communication the modules use hormone-based control, a distributed, scalable protocol that does not require the modules to have unique ID's.\n\nMiche (2006)\n\nThe Miche system is a modular lattice system capable of arbitrary shape formation. Each module is an autonomous robot module capable of connecting to and communicating with its immediate neighbors. When assembled into a structure, the modules form a system that can be virtually sculpted using a computer interface and a distributed process. The group of modules collectively decide who is on the final shape and who is not using algorithms that minimize the information transmission and storage. Finally, the modules not in the structure let go and fall off under the control of an external force, in this case gravity.\nMore details at Miche (Rus et al.).\n\nThe Distributed Flight Array (2009)\n\nThe Distributed Flight Array is a modular robot consisting of hexagonal-shaped single-rotor units that can take on just about any shape or form. Although each unit is capable of generating enough thrust to lift itself off the ground, on its own it is incapable of flight much like a helicopter cannot fly without its tail rotor. However, when joined together, these units evolve into a sophisticated multi-rotor system capable of coordinated flight and much more. More information can be found here.\n\nRoombots (2009)\n\nRoombots have a hybrid architecture. Each module has three degree of freedom, two of them using the diametrical axis within a regular cube, and a third (center) axis of rotation connecting the two spherical parts. All three axes are continuously rotatory. The outer Roombots DOF is using the same axis-orientation as Molecubes, the third, central Roombots axis enables the module to rotate its two outer DOF against each other. This novel feature enables a single Roombots module to locomote on flat terrain, but also to climb a wall, or to cross a concave, perpendicular edge. Convex edges require the assembly of at least two modules into a Roombots \"Metamodule\". Each module has ten available connector slots, currently two of them are equipped with an active connection mechanism based on mechanical latches.\nRoombots are designed for two tasks: to eventually shape objects of daily life, e.g. furniture, and to locomote, e.g. as a quadruped or a tripod robot made from multiple modules.\nMore information can be found at Biorobotics Laboratory Roombots webpage.\n\nSambot (2010)\n\nBeing inspired form social insects, multicellular organism and mophogenetic robots. The aim of the Sambot is to develop swarm robotics and conduct research on the swarm intelligence, self-assembly and co-evolution of the body and brain for autonomous morphogeneous. Differing from swarm robot, self-reconfigurable robot and morphgenetic robot, the research focuses on self-assembly swarm modular robots that interact and dock as an autonomous mobile module with others to achieve swarm intelligence and furtherly discuss the autonomous construction in space station and exploratory tools and artificial complex structures. Each Sambot robot can run as an autonomous individual in wheel and besides, using combination of the sensors and docking mechanism, the robot can interact and dock with the environments and other robots. By the advantage of motion and connection, Sambot swarms can aggregate into a symbiotic or whole organism and generate locomotion as the bionic articular robots. In this case, some self-assembling, self-organizing, self-reconfiguring, and self-repairing function and research are available in design and application view. Inside the modular robot whose size is 80(W)X80(L)X102(H) mm, MCU (ARM and AVR), communication (Zigbee), sensors, power, IMU, positioning modules are embedded.\nMore information can be found at Self-assembly Swarm Modular Robots\n\nIt is mathematically proven that physical strings or chains of simple shapes can be folded into any continuous area or volumetric shape. Moteins employ such shape-universal folding strategies, with as few as one (for 2D shapes) or two (for 3D shapes) degrees of freedom and simple actuators with as few as two (for 2D shapes) or three (for 3D shapes) states per unit.\n\nSymbrion (Symbiotic Evolutionary Robot Organisms) was a project funded by the European Commission between 2008 - 2013 to develop a framework in which a homogeneous swarm of miniature interdependent robots can co-assemble into a larger robotic organism to gain problem-solving momentum. One of the key aspects of Symbrion is inspired by the biological world: an artificial genome that allows storing and evolution of suboptimal configurations in order to increased the speed of adaptation. A large part of the developments within Symbrion is open-source and open-hardware.\n\n\nSince the early demonstrations of early modular self-reconfiguring systems, the size, robustness and performance has been continuously improving. In parallel, planning and control algorithms have been progressing to handle thousands of units. There are, however, several key steps that are necessary for these systems to realize their promise of \"adaptability, robustness and low cost\". These steps can be broken down into challenges in the hardware design, in planning and control algorithms and in application. These challenges are often intertwined.\n\nThe extent to which the promise of self-reconfiguring robotic systems can be realized depends critically on the numbers of modules in the system. To date, only systems with up to about 50 units have been demonstrated, with this number stagnating over almost a decade. There are a number of fundamental limiting factors that govern this number:\n\n\nThough algorithms have been developed for handling thousands of units in ideal conditions, challenges to scalability remain both in low-level control and high-level planning to overcome realistic constraints:\n\n\nThough the advantages of Modular self-reconfiguring robotic systems is largely recognized, it has been difficult to identify specific application domains where benefits can be demonstrated in the short term. Some suggested applications are\n\n\nSeveral robotic fields have identified \"Grand Challenges\" that act as a catalyst for development and serve as a short-term goal in absence of immediate \"killer apps\". The Grand Challenge is not in itself a research agenda or milestone, but a means to stimulate and evaluate coordinated progress across multiple technical frontiers. Several Grand Challenges have been proposed for the modular self-reconfiguring robotics field:\n\n\nA unique potential solution that can be exploited is the use of inductors as transducers. This could be useful for dealing with docking and bonding problems. At the same time it could also be beneficial for its capabilities of docking detection (alignment and finding distance), power transmission, and (data signal) communication. A proof-of-concept video can be seen \nhere. The rather limited exploration down this avenue is probably a consequence of the historical lack of need in any applications for such an approach.\n\nSelf-Reconfiguring and Modular Technology is a group for discussion of the perception and understanding of the developing field.robotics.\n\nModular Robotics Google Group is an open public forum dedicated to announcements of events in the field of Modular Robotics. This medium is used to disseminate calls to workshops, special issues and other academic activities of interest to modular robotics researchers. The founders of this Google group intend it to facilitate the exchange of information and ideas within the community of modular robotics researchers around the world and thus promote acceleration of advancements in modular robotics. Anybody who is interested in objectives and progress of Modular Robotics can join this Google group and learn about the new developments in this field.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1657646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1657646", "title": "Silent Sentinels", "text": "Silent Sentinels\n\nThe Silent Sentinels were a group of women in favor of women's suffrage organized by Alice Paul and the National Woman's Party. They protested in front of the White House during Woodrow Wilson's presidency starting on January 10, 1917. The Silent Sentinels started to protest after a meeting with the president on January 9, 1917, during which he told the women to \"concert public opinion on behalf of women's suffrage.\" The protesters served as a constant reminder to Wilson of his lack of support for suffrage. At first the picketers were tolerated, but they were later arrested on charges of obstructing traffic.The women protested for six days a week until June 4, 1919 when the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was passed both by the House of Representatives and the Senate.\n\nThe name Silent Sentinels was given to the women because of their silent protesting. Using silence as a form of protest was a new principled, strategic, and rhetorical strategy within the national suffrage movement and within their own assortment of protest strategies.\n\nThroughout this two and a half year long vigil many of the nearly 2,000 women who picketed were harassed, arrested, and unjustly treated by local and US authorities, including the torture and abuse inflicted on them before and during the November 14, 1917 Night of Terror.\n\nThe Silent Sentinels' protests were organized by the National Woman's Party (NWP), a militant women's suffrage organization. The NWP was first founded as the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage (CUWS) in 1913 by Alice Paul and Lucy Burns following the Congressional Committee's woman suffrage parade in 1913. CUWS by definition was an organization that took a militant approach to women's suffrage and broke away from the more moderate National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA). CUWS only lasted for three years until its founders merged it with the Woman's Party to form the National Woman's Party. The National Woman's Party boasted fewer members than National American Woman Suffrage Association(having 50,000 members to NAWSA's 2 million), but its tactics were more attention-grabbing and harnessed more media coverage. The NWP's members are known primarily for picketing the White House and going on hunger strikes while in the workhouses.\n\n\"The Suffragist\" was the National Woman's Party weekly newsletter. \"The Suffragist\" acted as a voice for the Silent Sentinels throughout their vigil. It covered the Sentinels' progress and included interviews with protesters, reports on President Woodrow Wilson's (non) reaction, and political essays. While the Sentinels were in prison, a few meters wrote about their experiences which were later posted in \"The Suffragist\". \"Although The Suffragist was intended for mass circulation, its subscription peaked at just over 20,000 issues in 1917. Further, most copies went to party members, advertisers, branch headquarters, and NWP organizers, which strongly suggests that the suffragists themselves were a key audience of the publication.\"\n\nThe following are examples of banners held by the women:\n\nThe Sentinels all wore purple, white, and gold sashes which are the NWP's colors. Their banners were also usually colored this way.\n\nThe public's responses to the Silent Sentinels were varied.\n\nSome people wholeheartedly approved of the work Silent Sentinels were performing. Men and women present at the scene of the White House showed their support for the Sentinels by bringing them hot drinks and hot bricks to stand on. Sometimes, women would even assist in holding up the banners. Other ways of showing support included writing letters praising the Sentinels to The Suffragist and donating money.\n\nOn the other hand, some disapproved of Silent Sentinels' protests. This included some of the more moderate suffragists. For example, Carrie Chapman Catt- then the leader of the National American Woman Suffrage Association believed that the best way to realize women's suffrage was to gain the vote through individual states first, upon which women could vote for a pro-suffrage majority in Congress. She thus opposed advocating for a national amendment to grant women's suffrage, as the Sentinels did. Members of the National American Woman Suffrage Association feared that pickets would create a backlash from male voters.\n\nAnti-suffragists also opposed the Silent Sentinels' protest. Mobs sometimes attempted to deter the Silent Sentinels through violence (which increased after US entry into World War I). For example, some attacked the Silent Sentinels and tore their banners to shreds. This occurred especially with the more provocative banners, such as banners calling Woodrow Wilson \"Kaiser Wilson.\" The New York Times called the protests \"silent, silly, and offensive.\" Men hurled insults or rotten fruit.\n\nAt first President Wilson was not very responsive to the women's protest. At points he even seemed amused with it by tipping his hat and smiling. It was said that at one point Wilson even invited them in for coffee. At other points in time, he ignored the protests altogether, such as when the Sentinels protested on the day of his second inauguration ceremony. As the Sentinels continued to protest, the issue became bigger and Wilson's opinion began to change. Although he continued to dislike the Silent Sentinels, he began to recognize them as a group seriously presenting him with an issue.\n\nOn June 22, 1917, police arrested protesters Lucy Burns and Katherine Morey on charges of obstructing traffic because they carried a banner quoting from Wilson's speech to Congress: \"We shall fight for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts—for democracy, for the right of those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own governments.\" On June 25, 12 women were arrested, including Mabel Vernon and Annie Arniel from Delaware, again on charges of obstructing traffic. They were sentenced to three days in jail or to pay a $10 fine. They chose jail because they wanted to show commitment to their cause and their willingness to sacrifice their physical bodies. On July 14, 16 women, including Florence Bayard Hilles, Alison Turnbull Hopkins, and Elizabeth Selden Rogers (of the politically powerful Baldwin, Hoar & Sherman family) were arrested and sentenced to 60 days in jail or to pay a $25 fine. Again, the women chose jail. Lucy Burns argued that the women should be treated as political prisoners, but Wilson denied this request.\n\nWhen the women arrived at the Occoquan Workhouse (now the Lorton Correctional Complex) they were asked to give up everything except for their clothing. They were then taken to a showering station where they were ordered to strip naked and bathe. There was only one bar of soap available for everyone in the workhouse to use, so all of the suffragists refused to use it. Afterwards they were given baggy, unclean, and uncomfortable prison clothes and taken to dinner. They could barely eat dinner because it was so sour and distasteful.\nThe conditions of the Occoquan Workhouse were very unsanitary and unsafe. Prisoners had to share cells and many other things with those who had syphilis, and worms were frequently found in their food.\n\nAfter serving three days in the Occoquan Workhouse in Virginia, Wilson pardoned the women. At first they refused to be pardoned because they were innocent and had nothing to be pardoned for, but they were eventually forced out. After a heated debate, the House of Representatives created a committee to deal with women's suffrage in September 1917. Massachusetts Representative Joseph Walsh opposed the creation of the committee, thinking the House was yielding to \"the nagging of iron-jawed angels.\" He referred to the Silent Sentinels as \"bewildered, deluded creatures with short skirts and short hair.\"\n\nAs the suffragists kept protesting, the jail terms grew longer. Finally, police arrested Alice Paul on October 20, 1917, while she carried a banner that quoted Wilson: \"The time has come to conquer or submit, for us there can be but one choice. We have made it.\" She was sentenced to seven months in prison. Paul and many others were again sent to the Occoquan Workhouse, where Paul was placed in solitary confinement for two weeks, with nothing to eat except bread and water. She became weak and unable to walk, so she was taken to the prison hospital. There, she began a hunger strike, and others joined her.\n\nIn response to the hunger strike the prison doctors force fed the women by putting tubes down their throats. They force fed them substances that would have as much protein as possible, like raw eggs mixed with milk. Many of the women ended up vomiting because their stomachs could not handle the protein. One physician reported that Alice Paul had \"a spirit like Joan of Arc, and it is useless to try to change it. She will die but she will never give up.\" Lucy Burns suffered injuries from force feeding, so after the Nineteenth Amendment was passed, she was unable to continue to work with Paul.\n\nOn the night of November 14, 1917, known as the \"Night of Terror\", the superintendent of the Occoquan Workhouse, W.H. Whittaker, ordered the nearly forty guards to brutalize the suffragists. They beat Lucy Burns, chained her hands to the cell bars above her head, then left her there for the night. They threw Dora Lewis into a dark cell and smashed her head against an iron bed, which knocked her out. Her cellmate, Alice Cosu, who believed Lewis to be dead, suffered a heart attack. Dorothy Day, who later co-founded the Catholic Worker Movement, was slammed repeatedly over the back of an iron bench. Guards grabbed, dragged, beat, choked, pinched, and kicked other women.\n\nNewspapers carried stories about how the protesters were being treated. The stories angered some Americans and created more support for the suffrage amendment. On November 27 and 28, all the protesters were released, including Alice Paul after spending five weeks in prison. Later, in March 1918, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated six suffragists' convictions. The court held that the informations on which the women's convictions were based were overly vague.\n\nOn January 9, 1918, Wilson announced his support of the women's suffrage amendment. The next day, the House of Representatives narrowly passed the amendment but the Senate refused to even debate it until October. When the Senate voted on the amendment in October, it failed by two votes. And in spite of the ruling by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, arrests of White House protesters resumed on August 6, 1918.\n\nTo keep up the pressure, on December 16, 1918, protesters started burning Wilson's words in watch fires in front of the White House. On February 9, 1919, the protesters burned Wilson's image in effigy at the White House.\n\nOn another front, the National Woman's Party, led by Paul, urged citizens to vote against anti-suffrage senators up for election in the fall of 1918. After the 1918 election, most members of Congress were pro-suffrage. On May 21, 1919, the House of Representatives passed the amendment, and two weeks later on June 4, the Senate finally followed. With their work done in Congress, the protesters turned their attention to getting the states to ratify the amendment.\n\nIt was ratified on August 18, 1920, upon its ratification by Tennessee, the thirty-sixth state to do so by the single vote of a legislator (Harry T. Burn) who had opposed the amendment but changed his position after his mother sent him a telegram saying \"Dear Son, Hurrah! and vote for suffrage. Don't forget to be a good boy and help Mrs. Catt put the 'rat' in ratification.\"\n\nThe Silent Sentinels vigil was a key part of the 2004 film \"Iron Jawed Angels\" which portrayed the history of the National Woman's Party, Alice Paul, Lucy Burns, and other members of the Women's Voting Rights Movement.\n\n\n\nBasch, F. (2003). Women's Rights and Suffrage In The United States, 1848–1920. \"Political and Historical Encyclopedia of Women\", 443.\n\nBoyle-Baise, M., & Zevin, J. (2013). FOUR History Mystery: Rediscovering our Past. In \"Young Citizens of the World\" (pp. 95-118). Routledge.\n\nBozonelis, H. K. (2008). \"A Look at the Nineteenth Amendment: Women Win the Right to Vote\". Enslow Publishers, Inc..\n\nCahill, B. (2015). \"Alice Paul, the National Woman's Party and the Vote: The First Civil Rights Struggle of the 20th Century\". McFarland.\n\nCrocker, R. (2012). Belinda a. Stillion Southard. Militant Citizenship: Rhetorical Strategies of the National Woman's Party, 1913–1920.(Presidential Rhetoric Series, number 21.) College Station: Texas A&M University Press. 2011\n\nDuBois, E. C. (1999). \"Feminism and suffrage: The emergence of an independent women's movement in America, 1848-1869\". Cornell University Press.\n\nDurnford, S. L. (2005). \" We shall fight for the things we have always held nearest our hearts\": Rhetorical strategies in the US woman suffrage movement.\n\nFlorey, K. (2013). \"Women’s Suffrage Memorabilia: An Illustrated Historical Study\". McFarland.\n\nGibson, K. L., & Heyse, A. L. (2011). When the woman suffragettes of the National Woman’s Party (NWP) picketed the White House from 1917 to 1919, they carried ban-ners that asked President Woodrow Wilson what he would do to support women’s democratic rights and if he would endorse their push for suffrage. \"Silencing the Opposition: How the US Government Suppressed Freedom of Expression During Major Crises\", 151.\n\nGrant, N. P. C. (1914). \"Women’s Rights: The Struggle Continues\" (Doctoral dissertation, SUNY New Paltz).\n\nGray, S. (2012). Silent Citizenship in Democratic Theory and Practice: The Problems and Power of Silence in Democracy.\n\nGray, S. W. (2014). On the Problems and Power of Silence in Democratic Theory and Practice.\n\nHorning, N. (2018). \"The Women’s Movement and the Rise of Feminism\". Greenhaven Publishing LLC.\n\nNord, Jason. (2015). The Silent Sentinels (Liberty and Justice). Equality Press.\n\nMarsico, Katie. Women's right to vote : America's suffrage movement. New York : Marshall Cavendish Benchmark, 2011.\n\nMountjoy, S., & McNeese, T. (2007). \"The Women's Rights Movement: Moving Toward Equality\". Infobase Publishing.\n\nRoberts, E. L. (2000). Free Speech, Free Press, Free Society. \"Unfettered Expression: Freedom in American Intellectual Life.\"\n\nSlagell, A. R. (2013). Militant Citizenship: Rhetorical Strategies of the National Woman's Party, 1913-1920\n\nWalton, Mary. (2010). A Women's Crusade: Alice Paul and the Battle for the Ballot. St. Martin's Press.\n\nWood, S. V. (1998). Jailed for Freedom: American Women Win the Vote\n\nBosmajian, H. A. (1974). The abrogation of the suffragists' first amendment rights. \"Western Speech\", \"38\"(4), 218-232.\n\nCallaway, H. (1986). Survival and support: Women’s forms of political action. In \"Caught up in Conflict\" (pp. 214-230). Palgrave, London.\n\nCarr, J. (2016). Making Noise, Making News: Suffrage Print Culture and US Modernism by Mary Chapman. \"American Periodicals: A Journal of History & Criticism\", \"26\"(1), 108-111.\n\nCasey, P. F. (1995). Final Battle, The. \"Tenn. BJ\", \"31\", 20.\n\nChapman, M. (2006). “Are Women People?”: Alice Duer Miller’s Poetry and Politics. \"American Literary History\", \"18\"(1), 59-85.\n\nCollins, K. A. (2012). Representing Injustice: Justice as an Icon of Woman Suffrage. \"Yale JL & Human.\", \"24\", 191.\n\nCostain, A. N., & Costain, W. D. (2017). Protest Events and Direct Action. \"The Oxford Handbook of US Women's Social Movement Activism\", 398.\n\nDolton, P. F. (2015). The Alert Collector: Women's Suffrage Movement. \"Reference & User Services Quarterly\", \"54\"(2), 31-36.\n\nKelly, K. F. (2011). Performing prison: Dress, modernity, and the radical suffrage body. \"Fashion Theory\", \"15\"(3), 299-321.\n\nKenneally, J. J. (2017). \" I Want to Go to Jail\": The Woman's Party Reception for President Wilson in Boston, 1919. \"Historical Journal of Massachusetts\", \"45\"(1), 102.\n\nMcMahon, L. (2016). A Woman's Crusade: Alice Paul and the Battle for the Ballot. \"New Jersey Studies: An Interdisciplinary Journal\", \"2\"(1), 243-245.\n\nNeuman, J. (2017). The Faux Debate in North American Suffrage History. \"Women's History Review\", \"26\"(6), 1013-1020.\n\nNoble, G. (2012). The rise and fall of the Equal Rights Amendment. \"History Review\", (72), 30.\n\nPalczewski, C. H. (2016). The 1919 Prison Special: Constituting white women's citizenship. \"Quarterly Journal of Speech\", \"102\"(2), 107-132.\n\nSouthard, B. A. S. (2007). Militancy, power, and identity: The Silent Sentinels as women fighting for political voice. \"Rhetoric and Public Affairs\", 399-417.\n\nStillion Southard, B. A. (2008). \"The National Woman's Party's Militant Campaign for Woman Suffrage: Asserting Citizenship Rights through Political Mimesis\" (Doctoral dissertation)\n\nWare, S. (2012). The Book I Couldn't Write: Alice Paul and the Challenge of Feminist Biography. \"Journal of Women's History\", \"24\"(2), 13-36.\n\nZiebarth, M. (1971). MHS Collections: Woman's Rights Movement. \"Minnesota History\", \"42\"(6), 225-230.\n\n\"Night of Terror: The Suffragists Who Were Beaten And Tortured for Seeking the Vote- \n\n\"Suffragists Will Picket White House\"- \n\nBecoming a Detective: Historical Case File #3—Silent Sentinels\n\nBryn Mawr on the Picket Lines - The Radicals and Activists- \n\nHistorical Overview of the National Woman's Party- \n\nNational Woman's Party Protest During World War I- \n\n100 Years Ago, A Different March For Women's Rights- \n\nPicketing and Protest: Testing the First Amendment- \n\nSuffrage Voiceless Speeches- \n\nThe Silent Sentinels (Boundary Stones): \n\nSilent Sentinels and the Night of Terror- \n\nFootage from 1913 Women's Suffrage Parade March- \n\n\"Silent Sentinel\" (2017) Video- \n\n\"Silent Sentinels Picket for Women's Suffrage\" (1917-1919) Videos- \n\nWomen of Protest: Photographs from the Records of the National Woman's Party- \n"}
{"id": "48511100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48511100", "title": "Tape diagram", "text": "Tape diagram\n\nA tape diagram, also known as a bar model, is a pictorial representation of ratios. In mathematics education, it is used to solve word problems. So lets do this problem that has been given to us by teachers all around. \"A boy has won 15 games, for every 3 games that he wins, he loses 2, how many games has the little boy lost?\"\n\nA math problem reads: A boy has won 15 games. His ratio for him is 3:2. The tape diagram would look something like this:\nUsing the above diagram, it can be concluded that the boy has lost 10 playing times.\n\nThe tape diagram works by showing different ratios. In the example before it shows how a boy has won 15 games. So if his win to loss ratio is 3:2 it would look like this. How many games has he lost?(3x5)\n\nNow how did you get those three 5s you ask.\nSo the answer to how many games did he lose is 10. Because 5+5=10\n"}
{"id": "12166425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12166425", "title": "Teen dating violence", "text": "Teen dating violence\n\nTeen dating violence is the physical, sexual, or psychological / emotional abuse (or violence) within a dating relationship among adolescents. Intimate partner violence (IPV) has been a well examined and documented phenomenon in adults; however, there has not been nearly as much study on violence in adolescent dating relationships, and it is therefore not as well understood. The research has mainly focused on Caucasian youth, and there are yet no studies which focus specifically on IPV in adolescent same-sex romantic relationships.\n\nIntimate partner violence (IPV) in adolescents is an important realm of study as, in addition to the usual negative effects of abuse, this violence occurs at a critical period in the social and mental development of a person. This is also an important topic from a gender studies perspective as almost 32% of male adolescents engage in some form of violence, whether sexual, physical or emotional, towards their partners while adolescent violence from females is nearly half of that rate. Also, according to the United States public health authority, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), \"[a]dolescents and adults are often unaware that teens experience dating violence.\"\n\nThe literature on IPV among adolescents indicates that the rates are similar for the number of girls and boys in heterosexual relationships who report experiencing IPV, or that girls in heterosexual relationships are more likely than their male counterparts to report perpetrating IPV. Ely et al. stated that, unlike domestic violence in general, equal rates of IPV perpetration is a unique characteristic with regard adolescent dating violence, and that this is \"perhaps because the period of adolescence, a special developmental state, is accompanied by sexual characteristics that are distinctly different from the characteristics of adult.\" Wekerle and Wolfe theorized that \"a mutually coercive and violent dynamic may form during adolescence, a time when males and females are more equal on a physical level\" and that this \"physical equality allows girls to assert more power through physical violence than is possible for an adult female attacked by a fully physically mature man.\"\n\nRegarding studies that indicate that girls are as likely or more likely than boys to commit IPV, the authors emphasize that substantial differences exist between the genders, including that girls are significantly more likely than boys to report having experienced severe IPV, such as being threatened with a weapon, punched, strangled, beaten, burned, or raped, and are also substantially more likely than boys to need psychological help or experience physical injuries that require medical help for the abuse, and to report sexual violence as a part of dating violence. They are also more likely to take IPV more seriously. By contrast, boys are more likely to report experiencing less severe acts, such as being pinched, slapped, scratched or kicked. Girls are more likely to report committing less serious forms of IPV, including as a means of self-defense, whereas boys are more likely to report committing more severe acts of IPV, including threats, physical violence and controlling a partner. That girls are more likely to engage in IPV as a result of self-defense is supported by findings that previous victimization is a stronger predictor of perpetration in females than in males. Other research indicates that boys who have been abused in childhood by a family member are more prone to IPV perpetration, while girls who have been abused in childhood by a family member are prone to lack empathy and self-efficacy; but the risks for the likelihood of IPV perpetration and victimization among adolescents vary and are not well understood.\n\nThere is a common misconception that aggression is stable over time. That is, young people who are labeled as or considered to be violent and aggressive at any point in time are then assumed to be dangerous for the rest of their lives. This is a contentious issue because there is a desire to protect both parties involved (or that have the potential to become involved) in teen dating violence. While classifying the perpetrator as a threat may be detrimental to his or her life and future relationships, not classifying the perpetrator this way may put future partners at risk.\n\nThere is considerable debate over whether we as a society have an accurate picture of the prevalence and severity of teen dating violence by gender. It is important to note that although male and female adolescents do not differ in \"overall frequency of violence in dating relationships,\" females are subject to \"significantly higher levels of severe violence\". This fact begs the question of whether abuse should be evaluated based on “severity” and how that can and should be measured, or if all abuse should be considered equally harmful.\n\nAge of consent is an issue that cannot be ignored in the discussion of teenage dating violence. Teenage sex is regulated in such a way that \"age of consent laws render teenagers below a certain age incapable of consent to sexual activity with adults, and sometimes with peers\". In some cases, the adult may be just a few months older than the minor. There are a number of states in which \"age of consent statutes are used to prosecute consensual sex between two persons both under the age of consent.\" This type of prosecution has been deemed unconstitutional in some states by citing violation of privacy rights, but remains in effect in other states. Sexual behavior and aggression can be so deeply intertwined that the legality of underage consensual sex is sure to have an effect on teen dating violence.\n\nSignificant research has been done on the causes behind violent behavior in adolescent dating relationships with the intention of guiding the creation of dating violence prevention programs, and in turn has provided findings on the roles of nature and nurture in the development of such behavior with a strong favor towards nurture factors. A study published in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health examined the potential association between a spectrum of childhood adverse experiences and physical violence in relationships before age 21 for both members. The subjects were asked questions about violence in their adolescent relationships, as either victim or perpetrator, and their childhood surrounding twelve different adversities: parental death, parental divorce, long-term separation from parent, parental mental illness, parental substance abuse disorder, parental criminality, inter-parental violence, serious physical illness in childhood, physical abuse, sexual abuse, neglect, and family economic adversity. The results demonstrated a strong positive correlation between ten out of the twelve childhood adversities and physically violent behavior in a teen relationship, with 13.8% responding with experiences of sexual violence, and 11.6% experiencing inter-parental violence. This points to a strong influence of experience, or nature, on violent tendencies in adolescent relationships. Multiple other studies corroborate these findings, citing childhood bullying, assault, and maltreatment as significant indicators for future violence in adolescent dating. Though there has been little explicit study of the relationship between nature and teen dating violence, there has been proven correlation between testosterone levels and violent tendencies that could come to fruition in adolescent dating relationships. Higher testosterone levels “manifests itself in various intensities and forms from; thoughts, anger, verbal aggressiveness, competition, dominance behavior, to physical violence.” A study published in the International Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism reported, “Testosterone plays a significant role in the arousal of these behavioral manifestations in the brain centers involved in aggression and on the development of the muscular system that enables their realization. There is evidence that testosterone levels are higher in individuals with aggressive behavior, such as prisoners who have committed violent crimes.” However, the study also noted that many cases of high testosterone levels are disarmed through socialization. Overall, because children are exposed to relationships early in their life through their parents and being so malleable at a young age, most evidence points to an adverse experience or experiences in childhood as fodder for such behavior in adolescence.\n\nThe literature on IPV among adolescents primarily focuses on Caucasian youth, and there are yet no studies which focus specifically on IPV in adolescent same-sex romantic relationships.\n\nWhile dating, domestic and sexual violence affect women regardless of their age, teens and young women are especially vulnerable. Young people ages 12 to 19 experience the highest rates of rape and sexual assault, and people age 18 and 19 experience the highest rates of stalking. Approximately one in three adolescent girls in the United States is a victim of physical, emotional, or verbal abuse from a dating partner—a figure that far exceeds victimization rates for other types of violence affecting youth Mark Green, former Wisconsin Representative said \"if the numbers we see in domestic violence (dating violence) were applied to terrorism or gang violence, the entire country would be up in arms, and it would be the lead story on the news every night\". According to \"Women's Health\", \"81% of parents surveyed either believed dating violence is not an issue or admit they don't know if it's an issue\", this is concerning because of the growth of dating abuse in teenagers relationships. Dating violence has advanced through the years by the means of communication technology. A survey conducted by Teenage Research Unlimited stated that \"[10] percent of teens have been threatened physically via e-mail, IM, text messaging, chat rooms, etc.\"\n\nA 2008 meta-analysis, which examined 62 empirical research studies between 1996 and 2006, relating to domestic violence in heterosexual intimate relationships from adolescence through to adulthood in the United States, reported on research findings that consistently show that adolescent females commit significantly more acts of domestic violence in intimate relationships than adolescent males. It stated, however, that the \"data also suggest that females who commit acts of domestic violence may experience more violent or frequent IPV victimization than males\" and that \"[t]he highest rates [for female-perpetrated IPV] were found for emotional violence, followed by physical and sexual violence. Prevalence rates varied widely within each population, most likely due to methodological and sampling differences across studies.\" The authors added, \"Few longitudinal studies existed, limiting the extent to which we could identify developmental patterns associated with female perpetrated intimate partner violence.\" They found a few studies which reported prevalence rates of IPV perpetration among females at two or more time points, which they stated made \"it difficult to obtain a clear picture of the developmental patterns associated with this type of violence.\" There was also only one study that reported on prevalence rates over time for female perpetrated IPV among adolescents. \"This study found a significant increase in prevalence over a six month period; however, they measured lifetime perpetration of IPV, therefore, it is unclear if there was an actual increase or simply an accumulation of violence,\" stated the authors. \"Together, these studies provide very limited evidence that female perpetration of IPV may follow a similar developmental trajectory as other forms of violence. [...] Unfortunately, many of the studies included in this review used modified or alternative instruments making it difficult to accurately compare prevalence estimates.\"\n\nIn a 2009 survey, the CDC found that 9.8% of high school students in the U.S. reported having been intentionally physically hurt by their boyfriend or girlfriend in the preceding 12 months. A 2011 CDC nationwide survey of the U.S. population reported that 23% of females and 14% of males who ever experienced rape, other physical violence, or stalking by an intimate partner first experienced some form of partner violence between 11 and 17 years of age. The ages between 16 and 24 are when youth are the most susceptible to dating violence. Also, according to the CDC, one in ten teens will be physically abused between seventh and twelfth grade. Because of this abuse, victims are more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol, employ precarious sexual conduct, develop eating disorders, and attempt suicide. The above numbers are notable in their magnitude and in their discrepancy, indicating that at some point between birth and high school a huge number of males are learning that it is useful and acceptable to abuse their dating partners in some way. The reciprocal of males learning violent behaviors is that women are not learning this fact and are instead learning through our culture and through violence directed at them that they are to be submissive. Males learning violent behaviors coupled with females thinking it normative creates a cycle of women being abused, learning to accept it and imparting this idea to their children and repeating the process. According to a study conducted by Susan M. Sanders she found that many adolescents do not always view aggressive behavior as violent or abusive and roughly 77.6% young girls agreed that after a physical altercation such as being kicked by their partner that they would cease to date them. The study conducted demonstrated that many adolescents, primarily females were more susceptible to leave only after a physical altercation took place. With these studies it was found that once a physical altercation took place the victim would then view it as abusive and eventually desire to leave the relationship. Adolescent dating violence is a subject which must be understood in order for true equality between the sexes to be achieved and to help stop partner violence in adults before it occurs.\n\nIn the United States, the National Conference of State Legislators (NCSL) states that \"[p]olicymakers can play a role in preventing teen dating violence\". and lists those states that currently have laws requiring school boards to develop and adopt programs to address this issue. Further, according to NCSL \"[i]n 2011 at least eight states have introduced legislation to address teen dating violence\". On January 31, 2011, President Obama proclaimed February 2011 to be \"National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month\". In 2006 the U.S. first recognized \"National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Week\", sponsored by Senator Mike Crapo, to \"increase public awareness and education of the prevalence of teen dating violence among our nation's teens\". The first week in February was so recognized through 2009. Beginning in 2010, Senator Crapo joined the Department of Justice in recognizing the month of February as Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month.\n\nThe National Dating Abuse Helpline, created by National Domestic Violence Hotline, is a 24-hour nationwide Web-based and telephone resource created to help teens and young people who are experiencing dating abuse. They offer information on building healthy relationships and how to recognize warning signs. It is the only helpline in the country serving all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.\n\n\nIn 2010, a campaign by the Home Office featured adverts targeting \"boys and girls aged 13 to 18\" via television, radio, Internet, and poster campaigns. The campaign followed research by the NSPCC indicating that approximately one-quarter of 13- to 17-year-old females had experienced physical abuse from a dating partner.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18907710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18907710", "title": "The Anatomy of Power", "text": "The Anatomy of Power\n\nThe Anatomy of Power is a 1983 book by Harvard economist John Kenneth Galbraith. It sought to classify three types of power: \"compensatory power\" in which submission is bought, \"condign power\" in which submission is won by making the alternative sufficiently painful, and \"conditioned power\" in which submission is gained by persuasion. In short; money, force and ideology.\n\nIt further divided power by source: power either stems from \"personality\" or leadership, \"property\" or wealth, or \"organisation\".\n\nThe book goes on to detail a brief history of the use of power, noting the broad arc of history in moving away from condign and towards compensatory and then conditioned power, and from personality and property towards organisation. Finally, it details what Galbraith views as the main sources of power in the modern world: government, the military, religion and the press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5732986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5732986", "title": "The Summerland", "text": "The Summerland\n\nThe Summerland is the name given by Theosophists, Wiccans and some earth-based contemporary pagan religions to their conceptualization of an afterlife.\nEmanuel Swedenborg (1688–1772) inspired Andrew Jackson Davis (1826–1910), in his major work \"The Great Harmonia\", to say that Summerland is the pinnacle of human spiritual achievement in the afterlife; that is, it is the highest level, or 'sphere', of the afterlife we can hope to enter.\n\nC.W. Leadbeater, a Theosophist, also taught that those who were good in their previous earthly incarnation went to a place called Summerland between incarnations.\n\nIn Theosophy, the term \"Summerland\" is used without the definite article \"the\". Summerland, also called the Astral plane Heaven, is depicted as where souls who have been good in their previous lives go between incarnations. \n\nTheosophists believe the Summerlands are maintained by hosts of planetary angels serving Sanat Kumara, the Nordic alien from Venus who Theosophists believe is the governing deity of Earth and leader of the Spiritual Hierarchy of Earth. Sanat Kumara is believed to rule over our planet from the floating city of Shamballa, believed by Theosophists to exist on the etheric plane (a plane between the physical plane and the astral plane), about five miles (8 km) above the Gobi Desert.\n\nTheosophists also believe there is another higher level of heaven called Devachan, also called the Mental plane Heaven, which some but not all souls reach between incarnations — only those souls that are more highly developed spiritually reach this level, i.e., those souls that are at the first, second, and third levels of initiation.\n\nThe final permanent eternal afterlife heaven to which Theosophists believe most people will go millions or billions of years in the future, after our cycle of reincarnations in this Round is over, is called Nirvana, and is located beyond this physical Cosmos. In order to attain Nirvana, it is necessary to have attained the fourth level of initiation or higher, meaning one is an \"arhat\" and thus no longer needs to reincarnate.\n\n"}
{"id": "34705388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34705388", "title": "Time's Paces", "text": "Time's Paces\n\nTime's Paces is a poem about the apparent speeding up of time as one gets older. It was written by Henry Twells (1823–1900) and published in his book \"Hymns and Other Stray Verses\" (1901). The poem was popularised by Guy Pentreath (1902–1985) in an amended version. Pentreath saw the poem \"Time's Paces\" attached to a clock case in the North Transept of Chester Cathedral where it is to be seen today. Recently the poem was even set to music. Pentreath quoted his version of the poem in his last sermon at Wrekin College, Shropshire where he was headmaster till 1952. His version then entered the public domain. Perhaps he wrote the poem down from memory and reconstructed it in the process. He may not have consciously intended to improve on Twells' version.\n\nThe last four lines of Pentreath's version were missed out in Whitrow's quotation in his book, \"The Natural Philosophy of Time\" and in some quotations in other books. The first sentence also begins with \"For\" as in \"For when I was a babe . . .\" This was added by Whitrow who may have received the poem orally or informally from Pentreath since he gives no reference source for the poem in his otherwise well referenced book. \nThe two versions are shown here:\nTwell's Original Version<br>\nWhen as a child I laughed and wept,\nTime crept.\nWhen as a youth I waxed more bold,\nTime \"strolled\".\nWhen I became a full grown man,\nTime RAN.\nWhen older still I daily grew,\nTime FLEW.\nSoon I shall find, in passing on, \nTime \"gone\".\nO Christ! wilt Thou have saved me then?\nAmen.\n\nPentreath's Amended Version \nWhen I was a babe and wept and slept,\nTime crept;\nWhen I was a boy and laughed and talked, \nTime walked.\nThen when the years saw me a man, \nTime ran.\nBut as I older grew,\nTime flew. \nSoon, as I journey on, \nI'll find time gone.\nMay Christ have saved my soul, by then,\nAmen.\n"}
{"id": "3453173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3453173", "title": "Transmodernity", "text": "Transmodernity\n\nTransmodernity is a philosophical concept used by the Spanish philosopher and feminist Rosa María Rodríguez Magda in her 1989 essay \"La sonrisa de Saturno: Hacia una teoría transmoderna\". Her approach, based on Hegelian logic, views modernity, postmodernity, and transmodernity as a dialectic triad in which transmodernity is critical of both modernism and postmodernism, but incorporates elements of both.\nTransmodernism, as first identified in the philosophical work of Rodriguez (2004), is an umbrella term that connotes the emerging socio-cultural, economic, political and philosophical shift way beyond postmodernity (Ateljevic, 2013:200) which is much more wide, deep and radical than what dominant economists and politicians call globalization (Ghisi, 2010)\nOther interpretations on this term have been elaborated in conjunction with the cultural movement of transmodernism founded by Argentinian-Mexican philosopher Enrique Dussel. The concept of transmodernity has also been used to re-work the notion of postmodernity, highlighting its structural relation to globalization and informatisation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "391239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=391239", "title": "Truism", "text": "Truism\n\nA truism is a claim that is so obvious or self-evident as to be hardly worth mentioning, except as a reminder or as a rhetorical or literary device, and is the opposite of falsism.\n\nIn philosophy, a sentence which asserts incomplete truth conditions for a proposition may be regarded as a truism. An example of such a sentence would be \"Under appropriate conditions, the sun rises.\" Without contextual supporta statement of what those appropriate conditions arethe sentence is true but incontestable. A statement which is true by definition (for example, the Lapalissade \"If he were not dead, he would still be alive\") would also be considered a truism.\n\nThe word may also be used with a different sense in rhetoric, to disguise the fact that a proposition is really just an opinion. \n"}
{"id": "3681488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3681488", "title": "Unified Soil Classification System", "text": "Unified Soil Classification System\n\nThe Unified Soil Classification System (USCS) is a soil classification system used in engineering and geology to describe the texture and grain size of a soil. The classification system can be applied to most unconsolidated materials, and is represented by a two-letter symbol. Each letter is described below (with the exception of Pt):\n\nIf the soil has 5–12% by weight of fines passing a #200 sieve (5% < P < 12%), both grain size distribution and plasticity have a significant effect on the engineering properties of the soil, and dual notation may be used for the group symbol. For example, GW-GM corresponds to \"well-graded gravel \"with silt\".\"\n\nIf the soil has more than 15% by weight retained on a #4 sieve (R > 15%), there is a significant amount of gravel, and the suffix \"with gravel\" may be added to the group name, but the group symbol does not change. For example, SP-SM could refer to \"poorly graded SAND with silt\" or \"poorly graded SAND with silt and gravel.\"\n\n\n\n"}
