{"id": "13067496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13067496", "title": "Animerama", "text": "Animerama\n\nAs well as the erotic themes, they are also defined by mixing more typical traditional animation with sequences of UPA and Yōji Kuri–influenced experimental use of modern design, limited animation, and still paintings akin to Tezuka's experimental short films and like those largely were all directed, sometimes sharing the billing with Tezuka, by Eiichi Yamamoto. The first, \"A Thousand & One Nights\", was the first erotic animated feature film and, at 130 minutes, remains one of the longest ever animated films. The first two are also notable for having scores by famed composer and electronic rearranger Isao Tomita. The third, \"Belladonna\", made without Tezuka's direct involvement, is more serious than its predecessors and more avant-garde still, telling its story largely through pans over still, panoramic paintings with narration.\n\nThe three films in the trilogy are:\n\nAll three were released onto DVD-Video by the video division of Columbia Music Entertainment, both separately and as a box set, in 2004 in Japan and re-released in 2006.\n\nA 1991 original video animation based on part of Ihara Saikaku's \"The Life of an Amorous Man\" (released on VHS in the United Kingdom and Ireland as \"The Sensualist\") made at Grouper Production is sometimes considered an unofficial successor to the trilogy, owing to the involvement of Yamamoto as screenwriter and its similarly both erotic and experimental imagery.\n\n"}
{"id": "5957245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5957245", "title": "Archi-writing", "text": "Archi-writing\n\n\"Archi-writing\" () is a term used by French philosopher Jacques Derrida in his attempt to re-orient the relationship between speech and writing. \n\nDerrida argued that as far back as Plato, speech had been always given priority over writing. In the West, phonetic writing was considered as a secondary imitation of speech, a poor copy of the immediate living act of speech. Derrida argued that in later centuries philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau and linguist Ferdinand de Saussure both gave writing a secondary or parasitic role. In Derrida's essay \"Plato's Pharmacy\", he sought to question this prioritising by firstly complicating the two terms speech and writing.\n\nAccording to Derrida, this complication is visible in the Greek word φάρμακον \"pharmakon\", which meant both \"cure\" and \"poison\". Derrida noted that Plato argued that writing was \"poisonous\" to memory, since writing is a mere repetition, as compared to the living memory required for speech. Derrida points out however, that since both speech and writing rely upon repetition they cannot be completely distinguished.\n\nIn the neologism \"archi-writing\", \"archi-\" meaning \"origin, principle, or telos\", attempts to go beyond the simple division of writing/speech. Archi-writing refers to a kind of writing that precedes both speech and writing. Derrida argued that archi-writing is, in a sense, language, in that it is already there before we use it, it already has a pregiven, yet malleable, structure/genesis, which is a semi-fixed set-up of different words and syntax. This \"fixedness\" is the writing to which Derrida refers, just such a 'writing' can even be seen in cultures that do not employ \"writing\", it could be seen in notches on a rope or barrel, fixed customs, or placements around the living areas.\n\nPhilosopher John R. Searle argued that most of Derrida's concepts were characterized by a \"breathtaking implausibility\", being based on an \"eccentric reading of the history of Western philosophy\", which overlooks or misstates many important details of philosophy and language (e.g., Derrida distorts Saussure's structural linguistics).\n"}
{"id": "3518497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3518497", "title": "Baker Street (comics)", "text": "Baker Street (comics)\n\nBaker Street is a ten-issue comic book series created by Gary Reed and Guy Davis, and published by Caliber Comics between 1989 and 1991.\n\nThe series consists of two story arcs \"Honour Among Punks\" written by Reed and Davis and \"Children of the Night\" written by Davis alone, who also provided the bulk of the art (with some early fill-in inking).\n\nIt features an alternative Sherlock Holmes world where the values and class system of Victorian era England carried over into a late 20th Century where World War II never occurred. The story mainly concerns a group of punks attempting to solve a series of murders reminiscent of the Jack the Ripper killings of the late 19th century.\n\nTen issues were published and collected in two trade paperbacks (one for each story arc) by Caliber:\n\n\nand then as a single volume:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16249324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16249324", "title": "Balanced sentence", "text": "Balanced sentence\n\nA balanced sentence is a sentence that employs parallel structures of approximately the same length and importance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1008869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1008869", "title": "Bricolage", "text": "Bricolage\n\nIn the arts, bricolage (French for \"DIY\" or \"do-it-yourself projects\") is the construction or creation of a work from a diverse range of things that happen to be available, or a work created by mixed media.\n\nThe term \"bricolage\" has also been used in many other fields, including anthropology, philosophy, critical theory, education, computer software, and business.\n\n\"Bricolage\" is a French loanword that means the process of improvisation in a human endeavor. The word is derived from the French verb \"bricoler\" (\"to tinker\"), with the English term DIY (\"Do-it-yourself\") being the closest equivalent of the contemporary French usage. In both languages, \"bricolage\" also denotes any works or products of DIY endeavors.\n\nInstrumental bricolage in music includes the use of found objects as instruments, such as:\n\n\nStylistic bricolage is the inclusion of common musical devices with new uses. Shuker writes, \"Punk best emphasized such stylistic bricolage\".\n\nMusical bricolage flourishes in music of sub-cultures where: \n\nUnlike other bricolage fields, the intimate knowledge of resources is not necessary. Many punk musicians, for instance, are not musically trained, because they believe training can discourage creativity in preference for accuracy. Also, careful observation and listening is not necessary, it is common in spontaneous music to welcome 'errors' and disharmony. Like other bricolage fields, bricolage music still values trusting one's ideas and self-correcting structures such as targeted audiences.\n\nIn art, bricolage is a technique or creative mode, where works are constructed from various materials available or on hand, and is seen as a characteristic of many postmodern works.\n\nThese materials may be mass-produced or \"junk\". See also: Merz, polystylism, collage, assemblage.\n\nBricolage can also be applied to theatrical forms of improvisation, where the main strategy is to use the environment and materials at hand. The environment is the stage and the materials are often pantomimed. The use of the stage and the imaginary materials are all made up on the spot, so the materials which are at hand are actually things that the players know from past experiences (i.e. an improvisation of ordering fast food: One player would start with the common phrase \"How may I help you?\").\n\nBricolage is also applied in interior design, through blending styles and accessorizing spaces with what is \"on hand\". Many designers use bricolage to come up with innovative and unique ideas.\n\nBricolage is considered the jumbled effect produced by the close proximity of buildings from different periods and in different architectural styles.\n\nIt is also a term that is admiringly applied to the architectural work of Le Corbusier, by Colin Rowe and Fred Koetter in their book \"Collage City\", suggesting that he assembled ideas from found objects of the history of architecture. This, in contrast to someone like Mies Van der Rohe, whom they called a \"hedgehog\", for being overly focused on a narrow concept.\n\nIn literature, bricolage is affected by intertextuality, the shaping of a text's meanings by reference to other texts.\n\nIn cultural studies bricolage is used to mean the processes by which people acquire objects from across social divisions to create new cultural identities. In particular, it is a feature of subcultures such as the punk movement. Here, objects that possess one meaning (or no meaning) in the dominant culture are acquired and given a new, often subversive meaning. For example, the safety pin became a form of decoration in punk culture.\n\nThe term \"psychological bricolage\" is used to explain the mental processes through which an individual develops novel solutions to problems by making use of previously unrelated knowledge or ideas they already possess. \nThe term, introduced by Jeffrey Sanchez-Burks, Matthew J. Karlesky and Fiona Lee of the University of Michigan, draws from two separate disciplines. The first, “social bricolage,” was introduced by cultural anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss in 1962. Lévi-Strauss was interested in how societies create novel solutions by using resources that already exist in the collective social consciousness. The second, \"creative cognition,” is an intra-psychic approach to studying how individuals retrieve and recombine knowledge in new ways. Psychological bricolage, therefore, refers to the cognitive processes that enable individuals to retrieve and recombine previously unrelated knowledge they already possess. Psychological bricolage is an intra-individual process akin to Karl E. Weick’s notion of bricolage in organizations, which is akin to Lévi-Strauss' notion of bricolage in societies.\n\nIn his book \"The Savage Mind\" (1962, English translation 1966), French anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss used \"bricolage\" to describe the characteristic patterns of mythological thought. In his description it is opposed to the engineers' creative thinking, which proceeds from goals to means. Mythical thought, according to Lévi-Strauss, attempts to re-use available materials in order to solve new problems.\n\nJacques Derrida extends this notion to any discourse. \"If one calls \"bricolage\" the necessity of borrowing one's concept from the text of a heritage which is more or less coherent or ruined, it must be said that every discourse is \"bricoleur\".\"\n\nGilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari, in their 1972 book \"Anti-Oedipus\", identify \"bricolage\" as the characteristic mode of production of the schizophrenic producer.\n\nIn the discussion of constructionism, Seymour Papert discusses two styles of solving problems. Contrary to the analytical style of solving problems, he describes bricolage as a way to learn and solve problems by trying, testing, playing around.\n\nJoe L. Kincheloe and Shirley R. Steinberg have used the term bricolage in educational research to denote the use of multiperspectival research methods. In Kincheloe's conception of the research bricolage, diverse theoretical traditions are employed in a broader critical theoretical/critical pedagogical context to lay the foundation for a transformative mode of multimethodological inquiry. Using these multiple frameworks and methodologies, researchers are empowered to produce more rigorous and praxiological insights into socio-political and educational phenomena.\n\nKincheloe and Steinberg theorize a critical multilogical epistemology and critical connected ontology to ground the research bricolage. These philosophical notions provide the research bricolage with a sophisticated understanding of the complexity of knowledge production and the interrelated complexity of both researcher positionality and phenomena in the world. Such complexity demands a more rigorous mode of research that is capable of dealing with the complications of socio-educational experience. Such a critical form of rigor avoids the reductionism of many monological, mimetic research orientations (see Kincheloe, 2001, 2005; Kincheloe & Berry, 2004; Steinberg, 2015; Kincheloe, McLaren, & Steinberg, 2012).\n\nIn information systems, bricolage is used by Claudio Ciborra to describe the way in which strategic information systems (SIS) can be built in order to maintain successful competitive advantage over a longer period of time than standard SIS. By valuing tinkering and allowing SIS to evolve from the bottom-up, rather than implementing it from the top-down, the firm will end up with something that is deeply rooted in the organisational culture that is specific to that firm and is much less easily imitated.\n\nIn her book \"Life on the Screen\" (1995), Sherry Turkle discusses the concept of bricolage as it applies to problem solving in code projects and workspace productivity. She advocates the \"bricoleur style\" of programming as a valid and underexamined alternative to what she describes as the conventional structured \"planner\" approach. In this style of coding, the programmer works without an exhaustive preliminary specification, opting instead for a step-by-step growth and re-evaluation process. In her essay \"Epistemological Pluralism\", Turkle writes: \"The bricoleur resembles the painter who stands back between brushstrokes, looks at the canvas, and only after this contemplation, decides what to do next.\"\n\nThe visual arts is a field in which individuals often integrate a variety of knowledge sets in order to produce inventive work. To reach this stage, artists read print materials across a wide array of disciplines, as well as information from their own social identities. For instance, the artist Shirin Neshat has integrated her identities as an Iranian exile and a woman in order to make complex, creative and critical bodies of work. This willingness to integrate diverse knowledge sets enables artists with multiple identities to fully leverage their knowledge sets. This is demonstrated by Jeffrey Sanchez-Burks, Chi-Ying Chen and Fiona Lee, who found that individuals were shown to exhibit greater levels of innovation in tasks related to their cultural identities when they successfully integrated those identities.\n\nKarl Weick identifies the following requirements for successful bricolage in organizations.\n\nNasim Nicholas Taleb mentions it in his book \"Antifragile\".\n\nIn his essay \"Subculture: The Meaning of Style\", Dick Hebdige discusses how an individual can be identified as a bricoleur when they \"appropriated another range of commodities by placing them in a symbolic ensemble which served to erase or subvert their original straight meanings\". The fashion industry uses bricolage-like styles by incorporating items typically utilized for other purposes. For example, candy wrappers are woven together to produce a purse. The movie \"Zoolander\" parodies this concept with \"Derelicte\", a line of clothing made from trash.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33369315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33369315", "title": "Buffalo robe", "text": "Buffalo robe\n\nA buffalo robe is a cured buffalo hide, with the hair left on. \nThey were used as blankets, saddles or as trade items by the who inhabited the vast grasslands of the Interior Plains. Some were painted with pictographs or Winter counts that depict important events such as epidemics, famines and battles. \n\nFrom the 1840s to the 1870s the great demand for buffalo robes in the commercial centres of Montreal, New York, St. Paul and St. Louis was a major factor that led to the near extinction of the species. The robes were used as blankets and padding in carriages and sleighs and were made into Buffalo coats.\n\nOnly hides taken in winter between November and March when the furs are in their prime were suitable for buffalo robes.\nThe summer hides were used to make coverings for tipis and moccasins and had little value to traders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52272224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52272224", "title": "Burmese Buddhist titles", "text": "Burmese Buddhist titles\n\nBurmese Buddhist titles (သာသနာတော်ဆိုင်ရာ ဘွဲ့တံဆိပ်တော်များ) encompass numerous honorific titles conferred by the Burmese government, to recognize members of the Sangha as well as civilians. These religious titles are conferred annually by the Burmese government, in a special ceremony during the full moon day of Tabaung, at the Uppatasanti Pagoda in Naypyidaw. From 1988 to 2008, the ceremony was held at the Mahāpāsaṇa Cave, near Kaba Aye Pagoda in Yangon.\n\nIn the pre-colonial era, the Burmese monarchy recognized Buddhist monks and laypersons by bestowing religious titles composed of Pali and native Burmese styles. Sayadaw (ဆရာတော်), which literally means \"teacher of royalty,\" was originally bestowed to monks who had educated the king as monastic teachers or tutors, although its usage grew more commonplace with time.\n\nDuring the Pagan Kingdom, several kings awarded religious titles to prominent Buddhist monks.\nDuring the Konbaung Dynasty, distinguished monks received a suffixed title in the form of Rājaguru (ရာဇဂုရု) or Rājādhirājaguru (ရာဇာဓိရာဇဂုရု). The reign of Mindon Min also saw a liberalization in the usage of Sayadaw as a title, which became widely conferred to accomplished monks, regardless of whether they had personally educated the king. Nowadays, Sayadaw is routinely used as a title for all senior monks.\n\nFrom 1915 to 1942, the British colonial government conferred the title Aggamahāpaṇḍita (အဂ္ဂမဟာပဏ္ဍိတ) to 98 monks.\n\nIn 1948, Burma achieved independence from Great Britain. From 1951 through 1953, the Burmese government awarded the Aggamahāpaṇḍita title to 15 monks. From March to July 1953, the government convened a special committee to establish a new system of religious titles. The new system, which included titles for monks and civilians, was introduced on 28 July 1953:\nFollowing the Sixth Buddhist council and introduction of the Tipiṭakadhara examinations, a new series of titles recognizing academic merit, was introduced by the government. Mingun Sayadaw, in 1953, became the first recipient of the newly minted Tipiṭakadhara Dhammabhaṇḍāgārika (တိပိဋကဓရ ဓမ္မဘဏ္ဍာဂါရိက) title.\n\nDuring the socialist era from 1978 to 1988, the system of civilian titles was abolished altogether. The practice of conferring Buddhist titles to civilians was reinstated on 24 May 1991 by the State Law and Order Restoration Council, which added 20 new religious titles, including 3 scholarly titles, 4 domestic and international religious propagation titles, and 4 civilian titles for men, and 4 for women.\n\nOn 17 June 2015, the Office of the President of Myanmar issued a directive amending the existing system of Buddhist titles recognized by the government. The system is divided into 7 categories, outlined below:\n\n"}
{"id": "1619976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619976", "title": "Coloring book", "text": "Coloring book\n\nA coloring book (or colouring book, or colouring page) is a type of book containing line art to which people are intended to add color using crayons, colored pencils, marker pens, paint or other artistic media. Traditional coloring books and coloring pages are printed on paper or card. Some coloring books have perforated edges so their pages can be removed from the books and used as individual sheets. Others may include a story line and so are intended to be left intact. Today many children's coloring books feature popular cartoon characters. They are often used as promotional materials for animated motion pictures. Coloring books may also incorporate other activities such as connect the dots, mazes and other puzzles. Some also incorporate the use of stickers.\n\nPaint books and coloring books emerged in the United States as part of the \"democratization of art\" process, inspired by a series of lectures by British artist Joshua Reynolds, and the works of Swiss educator Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi and his student Friedrich Fröbel. Many educators concluded that all, regardless of background, students stood to benefit from art education as a means of enhancing their conceptual understanding of the tangible, developing their cognitive abilities, and improving skills that would be useful in finding a profession, as well as for the children's spiritual edification. The McLoughlin Brothers are credited as the inventors of the coloring book, when, in the 1880s, they produced \"The Little Folks' Painting Book\", in collaboration with Kate Greenaway. They continued to publish coloring books until the 1920s, when the McLoughlin Brothers became part of the Milton Bradley Company.\n\nAnother pioneer in the genre was Richard F. Outcault. He authored \"Buster's Paint Book\" in 1907, featuring the character of Buster Brown, which he had invented in 1902. It was published by the Stokes Company. This launched a trend to use coloring books to advertise a wide variety of products, including coffee and pianos. Until the 1930s, books were designed with the intent for them to be painted instead of colored. Even when crayons came into wide use in the 1930s, books were still designed so that they could be painted or colored.\n\nColoring books are widely used in schooling for young children for various reasons. For example, children are often more interested in coloring books rather than using other learning methods; pictures may also be more memorable than simply words. Coloring may also increase creativity in painting, according to some research.\n\nAs a predominantly non-verbal medium, coloring books have also seen wide applications in education where a target group does not speak and understand the primary language of instruction or communication. Examples of this include the use of coloring books in Guatemala to teach children about hieroglyphs and Mayan artist patterns, and the production of coloring books to educate the children of farm workers about \"the pathway by which agricultural pesticides are transferred from work to home.\" Coloring books are also said to help to motivate students' understanding of concepts that they would otherwise be uninterested in.\n\nThey have been used as teaching aids for developing creativity and knowledge of geometry, such as in Roger Burrows' \"Altair Designs\".\n\nSince the 1980s, several publishers have produced educational coloring books intended for studying graduate-level topics such as anatomy and physiology, where color-coding of many detailed diagrams are used as a learning aid. Examples include \"The Anatomy Coloring Book\" and subsequent book series, by Wynn Kapit and Lawrence Elson, published by HarperCollins (1990s) and Benjamin Cummings (2000s). There are some examples of educators using coloring books to better explain complicated topics, like math and programming.\n\nSome publishers have specialized in coloring books with an explicit educational purpose, both for children and for adults. The books often have extensive text accompanying each image. These publishers include Dover Books, Really Big Coloring Books, Running Press, and Troubador Press.\n\nColoring books have seen wide application in the health professions as educational tools. One nurse, trying to limit the trauma of surgery, described in an academic publication how the use of a coloring book \"might help [the child] to understand what was going to happen to him.\" They are also used in rehabilitation of accident victims to aid recovery of hand–eye coordination, and they are used with autistic children both for entertainment and for their soothing effect. Coloring books have been used to explain complicated medical conditions to children. One of the appeals of adult coloring books is that they help users relax and de-stress.\n\nIn 1962, cartoonist Mort Drucker teamed with humorist Paul Laikin in creating the \"John F. Kennedy Coloring Book\", a satirical introduction to Kennedy, his family and administration, told from the point of view of his daughter Caroline. The book sold 2,500,000 copies.\n\nIn 1968 the \"Black Panther Coloring Book\" began circulating in the United States; the book features black men and children killing pigs dressed as police officers. It was argued to have been made not by the Black Panther Party but by the Federal Bureau of Investigation's COINTELPRO program to discredit the organization, a claim which other sources dispute.\n\nThe term and concept of the \"coloring book\" was adopted by the feminist artist Tee Corinne as a tool of female empowerment. Corinne made pencil sketches of female genitalia, which she then inked and printed on card stock. She published a collection of them in 1975 as \"The Cunt Coloring Book.\"\nIn August 2011, American publisher Really Big Coloring Books released \"We Shall Never Forget: The Kids Book of Freedom\" detailing specific drawings in the accounting of SEAL Team 6 shooting Osama bin Laden in his home. The book was criticized by some for portraying Muslims in a negative manner. The company has also published \"The Tea Party Coloring Book for Kids\", \"Ted Cruz To The Future\" (2013) and a book about President Barack Obama's inauguration (2008).\n\nPhotographer Jno Cook produced line drawings based on Robert Frank's \"The Americans\", and in 1983 published them in a limited edition as \"The Robert Frank Coloring Book\". In 1994, the National Gallery of Art used the images as party favors for writers working on the catalog for a retrospective of Frank's work.\n\nColoring books are a form of adult therapy that have seen a growth in popularity in the 2010s. They reportedly bring people a sense of their childhood, and help with developing fine motor skills and vision, reducing anxiety and creating focus, and relieving stress and anxiety in a manner similar to meditation. Concentrating on coloring may facilitate the replacement of negative thoughts and images with pleasant ones. Coloring books can be used in daily activity. The books are also a way to get away from technology, which some regard as beneficial to people's health. They can be used by people who are uncomfortable with more creatively expressive forms of art.\n\nWhile coloring books for adults were popular in the early 1960s, those were satirical works rather than the therapeutic works that define the adult coloring book form today. The first commercially successful adult coloring books were published in 2012 and 2013, and began increasing in popularity in 2015. In April of that year two such coloring books became the top sellers at Amazon. By November it was reported by Amazon.ca that the books were a top wished for item with nine of the top ten consisting of such books. Also that month Crayola began offering its own line of adult coloring books. Publishers also began packaging some of their colouring books with pencils and CDs. Sales in the US continued to grow in early 2016, but began to fall by year end, with less newcomers trying the pastime.\n\nAdult coloring books are offered digitally, via ebooks, digital apps, and coloring pages that can be colored online or downloaded. Users' digital work-products can be saved and shared. Dominic Bulsuto theorized that the trend of digital purchasing helped the spread of the genre, noting that the relative anonymous nature of the act allowed customers to feel more secure perusing books they would be embarrassed to buy in real life.\n\nBy 2016, Faber-Castell, a worldwide color pencil supplier, was reported to have trouble keeping up with demand for their products due to the craze, while Blue Star Coloring sold over a million titles in one year.\n\nAuthor Susan Jacoby has criticized adult coloring books, along with the popularity among adults of young adult fiction, as \"an artifact of a broader cultural shift. And that cultural shift is a bad thing.” She believes the Great Recession has contributed to this shift, as adults unable to find employment have moved home to live with their parents. New York City futurist and blogger Dominic Bulsuto describes adult coloring book fans as \"stuck in The Shallows, mindfully coloring books to counter the existential angst of living in a digital society.\" He goes on to say that \"...the endless Internet parade of silly cat photos, infantile comments and adolescent memes has dumbed us down.\" However, Bulsuto ultimately sees the trend as a good thing, noting that adults are increasingly buying books they want to buy, rather than books they are supposed to buy.\n\nColoring books can also be found digitally in the form of coloring book websites and applications. Coloring book software often has features such as color mixing, flood filling, and paintbrush tools that allow for more accurate and detailed drawings than regular coloring books.\n\n"}
{"id": "33365410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33365410", "title": "Commercial modular construction", "text": "Commercial modular construction\n\nCommercial Modular Buildings are code-compliant, non-residential structures 60% to 90% completed offsite in a factory-controlled environment then transported or shipped to a final destination where the modules are then placed on a concrete foundation to form a finished building. The word \"modular\" does not describe a building type or style, it simply describes a means of construction.\n\nThe commercial modular construction industry comprises two distinct divisions:\n\nPermanent Modular Construction (PMC) – modular units built offsite and assembled onsite to create a permanent facility and not intended to be relocated. They are comparable to buildings built strictly onsite in terms of quality, life span, and materials used for construction.\n\nRelocatable Buildings – modular units built offsite and assembled onsite that can be partially or completely reused and relocated at future building sites.\n\nAccelerated Construction Process\n\nA primary benefit of modular construction is its fast delivery. Due to the simultaneous process of creating modules in a factory at the same time site work is occurring, modular buildings can be constructed in up to half the time as buildings built completely onsite. This allows the buildings to be occupied sooner and allows owners to see a faster return on investment.\n\nIn order to save the most time and money and maximize the efficiency of the modular construction process, it is important to implement the modular construction at the beginning of the design-build process.\n\nCost Efficiency\n\nSince structures are created offsite and have quicker delivery times, modular construction cuts down on labor costs associated with traditional construction, and owners can see a reduction of 10 to 35 percent in overall costs.\n\nQuality Built\n\nModular buildings are built with all the same materials and to the same building codes and architectural specifications as onsite construction, just completed in an offsite, quality controlled environment. Modular buildings are also built to be able to withstand travel and installation requirements, creating a building that can be more durable than structures built onsite.\n\nSustainable\n\n\n\nModular buildings can also contribute to LEED requirements in any category site-built construction can, and can even provide an advantage in the areas of Sustainable Sites, Energy and Atmosphere, Materials and Resources, and Indoor Environmental Quality.\nModular construction can also provide an advantage in similar categories in the International Green Construction Code.\n\nModular builders provide all types of building space, from small temporary units to complex, multi-story permanent buildings. The most commonly served markets are education, healthcare, general office, retail and commercial housing.\n\nFor example, in 2013, China was preparing to construct the tallest building in the world called \"Sky City\" using modular construction. Despite a planned height of more than 2,000 feet (838 meters), construction was anticipated to take 90 days to complete, due to the efficiency of modular construction.\n\nSome common industrial uses may include: Application Rooms, Laser Rooms, Equipment Enclosures, Environmental Rooms, Maintenance Rooms, or Storage and Security Rooms. Commercial applications may include Offices, Reception Areas, Conference and Meeting Rooms, Copy Centers and Mail Rooms, Shipping and Receiving Rooms, Lunch Rooms and Cafeterias, Break Rooms, Dark Rooms, Training Rooms, and Storage Rooms. In addition, there are many custom applications available that can make modular construction a viable and cost-effective solution for any business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21381027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21381027", "title": "Dacian bracelets", "text": "Dacian bracelets\n\nThe Dacian bracelets are bracelets associated with the ancient people known as the Dacians, a distinct branch of the Thracians. These bracelets were used as ornaments, currency, high rank insignia and votive offerings Their ornamentations consist of many elaborate regionally distinct styles. Bracelets of various types were worn by Dacians, but the most characteristic piece of their jewelry was the large multi-spiral bracelets; engraved with palmettes towards the ends and terminating in the shape of an animal head, usually that of a snake.\n\nThe Dacians lived in a very large territory, stretching from the Balkans to the northern Carpathians and from the Black Sea and the Tyras River (Nistru) to the Tisa plain, and at times as far as the Middle Danube.\n\nDacian civilization went through several stages of development, from the Thracian stage in the Bronze Age to the Geto-Dacian stage in the classical period that lasted from the 1st century BC to the 1st century AD. The Thracian stage is associated with the emergence of Thracian populations from the fusion of the local Chalcolithic stock with the incoming peoples of the transitional Indo-Europeanization Period. By the time of Bronze Age, and during the transitional period to the Iron Age, the cultures of this Carpathian area may be attributed to proto-Thracian and even Thracian populations—ancestors of the peoples known to Herodotus as the Agathyrsae and the Getae, and to the Romans as the Dacians (by Iron Age II). The culture of these nuclear groups were typified by military aristocracies.\n\nIn these early times the most specific motifs of the bracelets are the spiral and the horn, used to provide the warrior with both physical and deistic protection.\n\nThe 5th century BC is associated with the Dacian stage of art and it is the time of the La Tène period (Iron Age II) when Dacian culture flourished, especially in Transylvanian citadels. The Dacian art of Iron Age II has all the characteristics of a mixed style, with its roots in the Hallstatt culture (1200–500 BC). It is characterized by an accentuated geometry, a curvilinear style and plant-based motifs. At this time, besides their older local types, Dacians made all kind of bracelets that were common in the Roman Empire. But, there was a constant preference of Dacians for decorating the silver spiral bracelets with animals protome such as snakes and wolves.\n\nThe period of time between the 2nd century BC and 1st century AD is termed \"Classic Dacian\". At this time the Dacians developed the art of silverworking, and a style which may be described specifically as the Dacian style. It consists of older traditional local elements, dating back to Iron Age I, but also of elements of Celtic, Scythian, Thracian, and especially Greek origins. The bracelets of this art-form include silver arm rings, with ends in the shape of stylized heads of animals, and heavy spiral-shaped armlets with gilded ends adorned with palm-leaves, and ending in animal-heads.\n\nThe Classic Dacian period ends when parts of the Dacian State were reduced to a Roman province by the Roman Empire under Trajan, partly in order to seize its gold mines. After the Second Dacian War (105–106 AD) Romans claimed they had looted 165 tonnes of gold and 300 tonnes of silver in a single haul, as estimated by modern historians. Its existence in only one spot (at Sarmizegethusa), suggests that there was a central control of precious metal circulation. According to the majority of historians this sort of monopoly of precious metals, and the Roman's forcible collection of Dacian gold objects, explains the scarcity of archaeological discoveries consisting of golden ornaments for the period between the 3rd century BC and the 1st century AD; however, the existence of the \"Treasures of Dacian kings\" has been confirmed by the latest archaeological finds of large gold spiral-shaped bracelets from Sarmizegetusa. It seems that the Romans did not find the entire royal treasure.\n\nNumerous bracelets were made of bronze and gold and many of them have been found in Transylvania, near the sources of the ores used in their manufacture. They include the following types:\n\nSome bronze bracelet types of the Bronze Age (i.e. incised solid bracelets) continue throughout all the Late Bronze Age and Hallstatt phases.\n\nArchaeological finds include two gold cylindrical muffs, a characteristic type of the middle and late Bronze Age and widespread throughout Central Europe. Two bronze specimens, both similar to the gold ones, have been discovered at Cehăluţ. The open cuff found at Hinova, and dated to the 12th century BC, is one of the largest gold bracelets of the proto-Dacians found to date. It is made of large gold sheet of 580 grams (1.27 pounds) in weight and decorated with ten buttons fixed into holes, five on each end.\n\nBracelets from Băleni, Galaţi (Late Romanian Bronze Age, Noua Culture) are particularly interesting because of their geometric décor, bands of right or oblique lines. They all have a green patina ranging from dark green to dull green, bluish green, bluish gloss.\n\nThe fragmentary iron bracelet from the cremation cemetery found at Bobda is among the few unequivocally dated iron objects equivalent to Hallstatt A 1–2 in this region.\n\nA bracelet with snake-shape endings had been found at the Hallstattian necropolis in Ferigile (Vâlcea County).\n\nThe bracelets from Spălnaca (Hopârta) are dated to Bronze Age IV (Iron Age I) and have decorations of geometric characters. Although not directly influenced by the Hallstatt styles, the objects from Spalnaca pre-date the later tendencies for geometric surface decoration of chiseled or engraved lines. Such discoveries at Spalnaca, Guterita and Dipsa show that bronze craftsmanship still flourished in the North Thracians from the Carpathian-Black Sea and Danube areas at the beginning of the Iron Age.\n\nThis type of Dacian bracelet originated in the Bronze Age. The hoard found in 1980 at Hinova includes two such bracelets. Multi-spiral types can be dated to the early Hallstatt periodand comprises also open and closed-end bracelets. One of the spiral bracelets from Hinova weighed 261.55 grams and the other 497.13 grams. The former, made of a thinner and narrower gold leaf, had a decoration consisting of two furrows cut along the edges and separated by a median crest. A similar decoration, of a furrow along the median line, decorates a metal bracelet from the deposit found at Sânnicolau Român, dated to the second period of the Bronze Age.\n\nFinds from Dacia include spiral bracelets made of double gold wire, the largest of which weighed nearly a hundred grams. Gold spiral bracelets of this type have been discovered in Transylvania and Banat, spanning a long period which begins with the very late phase of the Bronze Age and ends with the middle Hallstatt. Similar pieces made of bronze were discovered in the deposit of bronze objects at Sacot-Slatioara.\n\nThe multi-spiral bracelet type spans a long period of time that includes all Hallstattian stages.\n\nThe traditional ornamental motifs of bracelets, the meander and the \"whirling\" spiral (i.e. Oradea, Firiteaz and Sacosul mare), are thought to follow the spread of a cult of the sun, their decorations suggesting the rotation of the sun on the heavenly vault. This motif is recognized as one of the parallels between the artifact decorations of this North Thracian group and the ornamentations from the Mycenaean Shaft Graves. It is found in both the Aegean and east-central Europe from the Neolithic onwards.\n\nScholars opinions are divided on the source of these comparable traits. One opinion states that the North Thracian spiral motifs originate from the local Eneolithic (Chalcolithic) antecedents rather than from any imported influence. There are specific forms widespread in northern Thrace that are unlikely inspired by the Mycenaeans. It is also argued that these motifs apparently did not appear in the intervening territory of South Thrace. With North Thracians, the spiral motif appears prominently in the form of massive armguard (armlet) terminals, offering physical as well as apotropaic protection. Hoddinott states that the twin spiral terminals, as on the bowl from Biia, would have been a natural development; either from a local single armlet type or from an Unetice spectacle pendant.\n\nThe other opinion attributes the spiral motif to a northward spread of Mycenaean influence. It is argued that the spiral of the Neolithic period disappeared during the transitional period towards the Bronze Age, and even during the Early Bronze Age; therefore, starting from the Middle Bronze Age the spiral would occur because of a Mycenaean sway to the north of the Danube. These comparable features might have occurred because of commercial relations between the Mycenaeans and Dacians relating to the gold mines of Transylvania.\n\nWhatever may have been the origin of the spiral motif, the craftsmen of the late Carpatho-Danubian Bronze Age IV and Hallstatt A had a marked preference for bracelets with a spiral ending, as found at Sacosu Mare. The same décor featuring the coiled disk endings of the single- or double-spiral bracelets is found on contemporary ceramics. There is also a striking resemblance between the gold bracelets from Sacoșu Mare, from Firighiaz (or Firiteaz), and from other locations in Transylvania that suggest a spiritual affinity in the proto-Dacian world.\n\nThe hoard from Sacoşu Mare consists of bracelets and jewelry dated to the 13th to 12th centuries BC (Late Bronze Age and Hallstatt I). The golden bracelets, around 74.15 grams (2.6 ounces), have open ends of approximately 6.6 cm (2.6 inches) in diameter. Some terminate with convex volute ends, while others have double convex volute ends. The bracelet's bar is decorated with engraved rows of diamonds flanked by dotted lines.\n\nThe finds from Firighiaz (Firiteaz), Arad County, on left bank of the Lower Mureş River, are representative of the spiral motif bracelets of this period. The Firiteaz's treasure contains twenty-three bracelets made of gold bar, each weighing 0.2 kg (0.44 pounds), and the hoard is housed in the Vienna Museum. Bracelets made of bronze, similar to the Firiteaz ones made of gold, had been found in Transylvanian deposits dated to the Early Iron Age.\n\nThe Firighiaz treasure comprises three types of bracelets:\n\nThe earliest type one bracelets did not have ornamentations, while the later ones are engraved with groups of lines and angles or group of lines that alternate with lozenges (i.e. those from Sălaj). This type is also common to the sites in: Domanesti (Sălaj County), Tăuteni (Bihor County) and Şpălnaca (Alba County). Bracelets with quadrangular cross-section had previously been made of bronze, such as those at the beginning of the Hallstatt period. The gold ones are numerous, but are mostly of small dimensions; these smaller ones are considered to have been used as currency.\n\nThe type two bracelets coil into spiral discs at only one end (terminal). At a later time, between the 8th and 7th centuries BC, they coiled at both terminals similar to the type three bracelets.\n\nThe designs in type 3 bracelets, double-coiled (one at each of the two terminals), have also been found in bracelets from Biia (Alba County Romania), Fokoru (Heves, Hungary) and Bilje (Croatia).\n\nSpiral types similar to the Firighiaz type two have been found in a large area of Central and North-Western Europe: Bohemia, North-East Hungary, Moravia, Silesia, Poznań, West Poland, Pomerania, Lithuania, North Galicia, Germany (Bavaria, Wurttemberg, Turing, Mecklenburg) and Romania. Their prototypes may have been provided by the Lusatian Culture. Some scholars believe that these bracelets were a kind of defensive weapon. This view is supported by the fact that this type was found usually on weapons deposits in Germany, and that they appear to have been worn on the upper arm, as the traces of wear indicate.\n\nThese locally-made bracelets from Firighiaz (Firiteaz), and from other Transylvanian finds, are half the size of the armlets of the similar style found in Germany and they could not be worn. It seems they were simple ornamental objects, a common trait to many similar items found in Romania. Transylvanian bracelets of this type are described as nearly circular with 57 and 63 mm diameter. Their rods are of a circular cross-section (max. 10 mm thickness) gradually tapering towards the ends, where the cross-section becomes quadrangular and begins to curl in a spiral. The diameter of the spiral discs is 30–35 mm. Each of these discs are made from four spirals.\n\nAccording to Pârvan (1928), the style of Firighiaz artifacts evolved over a considerable period of time into the later form styles of the Dacian Hallstattian bracelets as found at Săcueni (Bihor County), Pipea (Mureș County) and Biia (Alba County).\n\nBracelets with double-volute ends like with Firighiaz type two, but with a different style, have been found at Acâş and Săcueni. These are made of lozenge bar with a décor made of relief globule (similar to bracelets found at Saint-Babel) with double-coiled terminals. The gold bracelets from Săcueni, as well as those from Acâş (Satu Mare County) and Hajdúszoboszló (Hungary) are typical Dacian bracelets of the Hallstatt period.\n\nBronze bracelets of this type had previously been found in deposits belonging to the first Hallstatt period. Their ornamentation and groups of motifs is similar to the Firighiaz (Firiteaz) type. Analogous bracelets had also been found at Oradea. Two bracelets with spiral ends, dated to the Iron Age, have also been found in Dacian tombs of the Lower Danube.\n\nBracelets from Biia and Pipea, found in the 19th century, have an unclear chronology. This series comprises a find from Abrud and another from an unknown Transylvanian location. Some archaeologists are reporting them as dating to the Hallstatt, though Márton (1933) dated them to the early La Tene period. Popescu (1956) estimates these can be dated to the Hallstat phase B (1000–800 BC), but no later than C (800–650 BC). whereas Mozsolics (1970) dates them to 1,500 BC. The so-called Biia bracelet was found with the Biia gold \"kantharos\" that can be dated between 1,500 and 1,000 BC. The handles of this goblet are also coiled into a double-spiral motif similar to other types of bracelets from the Carpathian area (i.e. Firigiaz 3, or Acas-Sacueni).\n\nThere, specimens are made of bronze and are prototypes of the Pipea–Biia–Boarta series of bracelets; therefore, scholars agree these bracelets had been made locally, in the Transylvanian goldsmith workshops. This opinion is supported by metal analysis.\n\nThese types of bracelets are possibly votive offerings, reminiscent of the cult of the bull. Their common trait is the stylized motif of \"horns\". All of them have large C-shaped \"horns\" as terminals. As with the spiral, Hoddinott purports that the east-central European bronzesmiths used this horn symbol to provide the warrior with both physical and deistic protection. In the Aegean Shaft Graves it occurs only on a stele, a gold bowl and three pairs of gold earrings, which Hoddinott considers to be possibly of central European origin. This thematic motif of the Carpathian peoples is confirmed by other archaeological finds from Transylvania that include three large rings weighing between 0.20 kilograms (0.44 pounds) and 0.60 kilograms (1.32 pounds). Their terminals are animal heads facing each other, depicting the heads of horses in two cases and bulls-heads in the third. Eluere (1987) identifies the endings of the Pipea-Biia bracelets with the cultic and religious powerful horns of the bull, and estimates that this myth was perpetuated for centuries.\n\nAccording to Hoddinott (1989), the horned animal cults that are attested with these horns motifs were brought by the transitional Indo-Europeanization period immigrants who adopted these stylized motifs as their main apotropaic symbol; however, the symbols of the horned animal replaced the local ones but were later associated with the sun-fire symbols of the earlier culture.\n\nThe bracelet from Bilje (Croatia) belongs to the same Biia-Pipea type. Hartmann noted that the percentage of silver and tin in the bracelets from Belly (Croatia) and Pipea (Romania) is almost identical. This suggests both bracelets had been made in the same region. According to Marton, the armlets with semi-moon ends are part of an evolutionary series that terminates with the later silver snake-headed bracelets of the Classical Dacian times.\n\nThe bracelet from Boarta (Şeica Mare-Sibiu County) was discovered in 1891 and is dated to 600 BC. It might be an example of the last phases in the evolution of the Biia-Pipea gold artifacts (For the photo of Boarta bracelet see the gallery of links ) A very similar copy of the Boarta type has been found with the treasure from Dalj, Slavonia.\n\nUnlike the Biia-Pipe type bracelets, the Boarta bracelet is flat, band-shaped, and has three raised ribs resembling the body of two other bracelets from Oradea. Its semi moon-shape terminals are smaller than the Biia-Pipea terminals; thus, some scholars derive the type of the Boarta bracelet to be from some earlier bronze bracelets whose ends widen and whose bodies have more ridges.\n\nIt seems that some other bracelets found at Bihor, Oradea, Targu Mures and Făget could possibly belong to the Boarta type, and not to the Biia-Pipea type.\n\nThe terminal adornments of this gold bracelet look like animals' heads, but the zoomorphic motif almost disappeared because of the geometric stylization (see picture \"Mosna 1\" above). It is dated to the Hallstatt period. This is not an isolated item, since it is stylistically connected to the geometric and zoomorphism of a collar and two bracelets from Veliki Gaj (Hungarian Nagygáj, Romanian Gaiu Mare) in Serbia.\n\nIn the past, on the basis of a relatively small selection of archaeological finds, some scholars considered that the art of Geto-Dacians was geometrical and non-iconic. This led to the zoomorphic representations of Dacian bracelets being seen as an expression of the art of the steppes people, and Scythian art in particular. The majority of archaeological finds to date show that the main aspect of Geto-Dacian toreutics is in fact a zoomorphic motif style of its own. This Dacian style of animal art occurs at the time when various ancient historical sources begin to record the Geto-Dacians as an ethnic entity of the larger Thracian family; therefore, this artistic expression might be considered as specific to the Dacian society of the last centuries BC.\n\nSome scholars sustain that the zoomorphic motifs of that particular time do not represent any kind of zoolatry of the Geto-Dacians. These would be iconographic motifs highlighting and multiplying certain attributes of the deities or of the kings.\n\nThe tendency towards the apotropaic zoomorphism that crystallized at the end of the Iron Age I (i.e. bracelets from Biia, Pipea, Boarta etc.) is clearly manifested with the bracelets possessing ornamented ox heads of the Iron Age II (La Tene) from Târgu Mureş (Mureş County), Apoldu de Sus (Sibiu County), Vad (Braşov County) and one from an unknown Transylvanian find. The bracelet from Apoldu de Sus seems to have an ox head at one terminus and a ram's head at the other end.\n\nThe ox-head bracelets have been associated with the clay Hallstatian's Moon idol, with which they undoubtedly share a similarity.\n\nThe wires of these series of bracelets are thick, and decorated with ornamental protrusions. Their characteristic decor consists of relief or incised circles, while there are also those with cuts or incisions that form a fir-tree motif.\n\nA bracelet with ox-heads discovered in the 19th century at Târgu Mureş (see picture) had been dated by some scholars to La Tene. Others such as Popescu (1956) dated this particular one to the last period of the Hallstatt, since it might have been deposited together with a semi-moon type bracelet of that period. As for the technique, it is noted that the bracelet from Targu Mures show a control of three-dimensional modeling, with silver inlays. There are two other bracelets of a similar type in the Transylvania Museum, though they are known to be discovered in Transylvania the original site is unknown.\n\nThe religious meaning of the sacred horn had been lost over time, the circlets keeping this shape can only be described as decorative ornamentation. The bracelet found in 1817 at Vad–Fagaras (Brasov County) terminating with horse heads depicted as wearing a bridle, is part of the general trend of bracelets replacing the sacred horn as a motif.\n\nIn 1959 two bracelets terminating with \"horned-horses\", were found at Băiceni (Cucuteni). They are dated to the end of the Iron Age I and are found in the context of a hidden treasure of a Dacian nobleman. The treasure comprised 2 kilograms of gold ornaments; a helmet, necklace, appliqués, harness, and buttons for vestments. They were ceremonial ensemble for kings or noblemen and their horses. The bracelets and necklace terminate with protomes of horse heads and exhibit strong Thracian roots.\n\nThe heads have also been interpreted as goat-heads (ibex). Each head is very made of embossed gold foil with a filigree composition, and had sun-symbols on the middle of the forehead. They also have what may be seen as ram's- or goats-horns (see picture \"Head 1\" on the right). These Băiceni gold artworks of the 4th century BC are viewed as one of the links transferring the Thracian and North Thracian Art forms and motifs across to the Dacian silversmiths.\n\nDacians replaced gold, the popular Transylvanian metal during the Iron Age I period, with silver during Iron Age II. The types of ornaments also changed, perhaps due to new social structures and hierarchy or due to changes of the preferences of the populous and sacerdotal aristocracy.\n\nDacians absorbed influences from the western Celts and eastern Scythians, but also proved their artistic originality. The bracelet style of the former is more individual, as they synthesized the older local elements originating from the Bronze Age into a new combination adapted to include the contemporary decorative forms and motifs.\n\nObjects specific to warriors (armors, harnesses etc.) became preponderant from the 5th century BC onwards, in contrast to the decorative objects (bracelets, torques and pendants) that predominated in the Bronze Age, and in the transition period leading up to the Iron Age. In the 2nd and 1st centuries BC gold and silver military objects are replaced so that the treasures of the late Dacian La Tene comprise ceremonial ensembles of silver ornaments and clothing accessories, bracelets along with some mastos or footed cup vases .\n\nThe geometrical and spiral motif ornamentation of earlier bracelets is more often replaced with zoomorphic and vegetal representations. The decorations of bracelets that have been found, across the whole territory inhabited by Dacians, consist of lines cut into fir-tree shapes, dots, circlets, palmettes, waves, and bead motifs.\n\nVarious single-spiral bracelets made of solid quadrangular (rhombic) gold bars, whose overlapping ends represent the head of a snake, were found in 1889 at Toteşti in Hunedoara County. The head is geometrically stylized but clearly defined by decorative details. This artifact belongs to the so-called \"Classic Dacian\" period and described as a \"primitive work done by a not skilful hand\". It was noted that the snake head is realistically depicted by the representation of the eyes, ears and other elements of the vipera ammodytes that is so commonly found in the area. The same scholars related these gold circlets to the later silver multi-spirals snake protome and palmette bracelets from Vaidei-Romos, Senereuş, Hetur, Marca and Oradea Mare. Other scholars consider that Toteşti snake-headed ornaments should be interpreted on the basis of an abstract contemporary stylistic type, and not as an imitation of reality. In this interpretation Toteşti bracelets are not connected with the snakes from the region of Deva, but they are a tradition that began in Hallstatt times with the \"Scythian rings\" and continued into the La Tène period.\n\nIn the Scythian tombs of Northern Hungary that are related to the Scythian invasions from around 700 BC, as well as in those of central Romania, spiral-shaped rings known as the \"Scythian rings\" have been found; with one end forming a fantastic animal, such as a dragon or serpent. These apotropaic creatures, themselves Turano-Siberian varieties of old Mesopotamian monsters, might have provided the model for the Dacian protome bracelet from Toteşti—but neither the Scythian animals nor the Greek decorations appear to have had great success in Dacia, since the native geometric style continued to predominate.\n\nAnalogies to the Totesti bracelets can be found not only to the multi-spiral bracelets, but also in the overlapping-end bracelets whose ends sometimes terminate with stylized animal heads.\n\nThe archaeological findings dated to this period of time comprise the following types:\nThe Dacian silver bracelet is one of the characteristic artworks of this period, and the most representative ornament on them is the snake protome. Dacian bracelets have mainly been thought of as women's adornments but it can not be excluded that some types of bracelets, especially the multi-spirals ones, represented insignia of politico-military and sacerdotal functions and therefore worn by men.\n\nBracelets became part of the objects that Dacians selected as votive offerings deposited outside settlements. Such offerings have been found in a fountain at Ciolanestii din Deal, Teleorman County, where silver bracelets and vases dated to 2nd or 1st century BC were found, and finds beside a lake in a forest at Contesti, Argeş County, where bracelets, pearls, and a drachma were found.\n\nTypes of the La Tene II period (150 BC – 100 AD) include:\n\nAccording to Horedt (1973), silver Dacian treasure finds can be typologically categorized into north and south groups, divided by the Târnava River. In the contact zone between them the artifacts are common to both zones. In this classification the silver multi-spiral bracelets that are ornamented with palmettes and snake protomes would belong to the southern group.\n\nThe Dacian bracelets that have been found East of the Carpathians can be categorized into two main types:\n\nThe characteristic metals used for bracelets found in the area of the Siret River valley are bronze and iron, though silver was also probably used; a silver bracelet was found with a treasure of coins buried after 119–122 AD.\n\nIn the Prut-Dniester region sub-types have been identified such as:\n\nDacian bracelets have been found in deposits from Tekija, Bare, Veliko Središte and Paraćin.\n\nThe style and type of the bracelets from Tekija and Bare are similar to the Dacian silver types; i.e. bracelets made of twisted wire and bracelets with overlapped ends that are coiled around the wire itself. Even though the origins of this type should not necessarily be located in Dacia itself, since bracelets of this type are scattered throughout the entire Balkan-Danube area, the earliest dated bracelets from Tekija and Bare are very large, as were those typical of the Dacian cultural complex. Bracelets with ends shaped as a head of, or tail of, a serpent are well represented in the Dacian deposits that are found at the Bare.\n\nThe Dacian bracelets that are decorated with spiral end-pieces, i.e. Belgrad—Guberevac (Leskovac), along with thin Dacian silver necklaces found in East Serbia, characterize the presence of a Dacian La Tene culture at Paraćin in Serbia.\n\nAn important category of the jewelry in the Daco-Getic environment are bronze bracelets with cord ornaments, whose typology consists of three types held in the Blaj Museum and in Simleul Silvaniei. Such circlets had been discovered at Ardeu, Cuciulata (Brasov), Costesti (Hunedoara), Ocnita (Valcea), Pecica (Arad), Simleul Silvaniei (Sălaj), Tilisca (Sibiu) and in the Orăstie Mountains. These ornaments do not seem to be specific to pre-Roman Dacia, as they were widely spread in contemporary Germany, Poland, Czech, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia—all during the La Tene period. Since their diameter is around 10 cm, apart from those found in Simleul Silvaniei and Orăstie which are 6 cm and 7.5 cm, they were probably worn on the arm or as anklets. They have been found mainly in fortresses or important centers of pre-Roman Dacia, and appear to have been prestige items of the local aristocracy.\n\nThis type have been found with treasures from Cerbăl (Hunedoara County), Bistrita (Bistriţa-Năsăud County), Drăgeşti (Bihor County), Oradea-Sere (Bihor County), Saracsău (Alba County), and Tilişca (Sibiu County). The bracelets are made of wire turned two or three times to form a semicircular terminal. The three-turns style is seen only with a single bracelet from Cerbăl. These terminals are always decorated with stamped-dotted lines and are dated to the 1st century BC.\n\nThis type was designed and preferred by the intra-Carpathian regions. Only one presence occurs in the Danube area, at Iron Gates. Since this bracelet appears to have been a prestige ornament, its presence south of the Carpathians is seen as a component of the relationships between the elites of the two neighboring regions.\n\nIn the Bronze Age IV and Hallstatt periods Dacia was characterized by gold treasures and by a particular gold art, whereas archaeological finds dated to the La Tene period are mostly made of silver. This is a common characteristic of the Illyrian and Eastern Alps regions of the time, and not limited to the Dacian area. Some scholars, such as Glodariu, explain the scarcity of gold ornaments and bracelets in Dacian treasures by a custom of the Dacians, Celts, Germans and Romans in reserving golden ornaments for the king alone. Other scholars, such as Florescu, put forth the hypothesis of religious restrictions regarding the use of gold in the period of the Dacian state.\n\nThe golden Dacian bracelets, and indeed most of the jewelry, that has been found so far are made of unrefined gold from the Apuseni Mountains.\n\nThe silver of the Dacian bracelets and other ornaments of the time always contain between 0.63 and 6.35% gold. In some scholars opinions, such as Oberländer-Târnoveanu, it was obtained by melting Greek and Roman coins as well as importing from Balkan sources. Others, Popescu for example, support the thesis of a local extraction of silver from the Apuseni Mountains.\n\nThe work and typology of the silver multi-spirals snake-headed bracelets suggests the existence of a large manufacturing center, located most probably near the Dacian sites of the Orastie Mountains. From there silver artifacts spread throughout the entire area of modern-day Transylvania; and, as archaeological finds prove, these art works become later known in areas that encompass the modern regions of Moldavia, Muntenia and Oltenia.\n\nIn the second phase of La Tène, reasoned on the basis of finds, Dacia appears to have experienced a temporary \"silver crisis\", probably related to an increase in the minting of silver denarii; therefore, bracelets dated to that time had been made of mild alloy and only plated with a silver layer about 0.1 mm (0.004 inch) thick. The layer was so well welded that the welding can not be identified by the naked eye, even in cross sections. Specimens of the group include finds from Sarmasag (Salaj County) and Dersca (Botosani County). There were also similar finds at Slimnic (Sibiu County) and Herastrau Bucuresti.\nThe Dacian phalera from Lupu-Cergău, Alba County, depicts a feminine divinity wearing some circlets on her arms. Some scholars identified these with a representation of the Dacian bracelet types.\n\nIn 1820 at Cioara (today Săliştea) a fragmentary gilded silver plaque was discovered, dated to La Tène III, and primitively decorated \"au repousse\" (\"by embossing\"), with representations of two human characters, probably warriors. Hatched bands are visible on the arms and wrists that resemble regular bracelets. Even though the motifs of the plaque do not seem to be local, since it differs in some respects from those depicted on Trajan's Column, the silver-work itself seems to be Dacian. Other than the Dacians, no-one was working in this style at that time. The silversmith who made it is probably the same one who made the well known Dacian snake-headed bracelets from Hunedoara County.\n\nA fragment from the Forum of Roman Emperor Trajan (2nd century AD) in Rome has a relief of a seated female, probably a Dacian (\"Dacia Capta\" – \"the conquered Dacia\"). She is depicted wearing a bracelet on each arm below the shoulder.\n\nThis motif is found with both the multi-spiral bracelets and also with the simple bracelets.\n\nThere are about 27 known Dacian silver or silver-gilt multi-spiral bracelets terminating with rectangular plaques and snake head protomes. They are exhibited or kept in repositories and museums in Bucharest (Romania), Budapest (Hungary) and Belgrade (Serbia). Additionally the Kunsthistorisches Museum holds Dacian silver bracelets such as the one found at Orastie (Hunedoara County) and the one from Feldioara (Brasov County).\nAll of these silver works are characterized by their large size. For example, the one found at Senereuş, now in the Brukenthal Museum weights aropund 0.4 kilograms (0.88 pounds). The wire used is 206 cm (6 feet 9 inches) long and 0.4 cm (0.157 inches) thick, while the heads are 21 cm each (8.26 inches). The inside diameter of the coils is 12.5 cm (4.92 inches) with an outside diameter of 13.3 cm (5.2 inches). These large diameters and the heavy weight of these armlets would suggest wearing them on the upper arm or on the leg. The coils of the specimen from Cluj Napoca have an even bigger outside diameter at 16 cm (6.3 inches); therefore, it is supposed that it was worn on the thigh or forearm over clothes\n\nThe specimen from the Transylvanian Museum at Cluj weighs 0.358 kilograms (0.79 pounds). It has been made by hammering a silver bar of a circular cross-section. It has 4 spirals and the ends are flattened, decorated with seven palmettes made by punching. The surfaces of the palmettes, and their extremities, are decorated with the \"fir-tree\" motif and incised circles.\n\nThe multi-spiral from Belgrad Museum has an interesting particularity in that the impression of the palmette motif has two puncheons of different dimensions. This might have been done in order to avoid the stereotypy of models.\n\nSnakes are depicted in Dacian toreutics from the 6th and 5th centuries BC, and also in the later period. Both types of bracelets with snake protomes, those of simple and multiple spirals, show an ancient Thracian tradition from the Hallstatt period (the Geto-Thracian period) of Geto-Dacian art evolution. Snake-shaped bracelets, and other ornaments of the same kind, speak not only of the spread of the decorative motif but also of a symbol and significance of this motif in the Dacian period.\n\nSome scholars suppose that the Scythians provided the model of the snake décor found in the Classical Dacian bracelets, on the basis that the semi-spiraled Scythian snake type rings, were common in Dacia after the Hallstatt period. Those rings might have been continuously used until the La Tène period, or perhaps until the Roman era, as can be seen with a necropolis from Caşolţ, Sibiu County. If this was the case, Shchukin suggests it was a matter of transferred ideas rather than of imports.\n\nThese bracelets types can be explained by the typology of the local tradition of the Hallstattian period; and there were similar bracelets in the Thracian world of today's Romania and Bulgaria. Such examples include a mid-3rd-century BC spiral dragon-headed ring; a spiral snake-headed ring from Nesebar (Messembria); 4th century BC spiraled bracelets from Aitos; and a 3rd-century BC snake-headed ring of unknown origin in the British Museum.\n\nThe manufacture of the spirals, by wrapping the silver wire several times, belongs to the traditions of the Bronze Age; but those with their ends flattened, and decorated on the outside with intaglio palmettes, belong to a more modern style according to Popescu. The way in which these dragon patterned bracelets were developed by the Dacians was new, while its resemblance to the workmanship and style of other countries are so few, that these bracelets might very well be considered as specifically Dacian. It can be distinguished as a Dacian style since they remained faithful to their own geometric representations, and the palmette motif is not found in the neighboring areas.\n\nWithin the multi-spiral group of bracelets with palmette scales, two sub-groups can be stylistically identified – one represented by the Feldioara find and the other by the Orastie find. These sub-groups show that the snake and dragon types were not absolutely immutable in the imagination of the Dacian silversmiths. Two variants were introduced: mammal head – snake head and crest – mane, as well as some transitional versions.\n\nThe bracelet discovered around 1856 at Orăștie consists of a single silver wire, with a circular cross-section, coiled into eight equal spirals terminating in a dragon head at both ends. It is analogous to the bracelet from Feldioara but its head is different in that the head is almost triangular. It has been made in a richer figurative manner than others.\n\nThe multi-spiral bracelet with zoomorphic (snake?) ends, found in 1859 with a treasure from Feldioara, is different because of the widened muzzle of the protome terminals. In the middle of the snake head the Dacian silversmith engraved braids, by the use of puncheons, consisting of two rows of small, oblique, divergent traits. The snake's eyes are depicted as two circles. A strong profile separates the head from a relatively rectangular plaque with rounded corners, and slightly arched edges representing the mane of the Dacian dragon. The profiled relief edges of the bracelet's rectangular plaque and its decoration with two rows of divergent slashes are suggestive of the mane of a dragon or wolf.\n\nThe bracelets from the Museum of Transylvania found in Cluj, Hetiur (Mureș County) and Ghelința are characterized by a more trenchant cutting and a more prominent relief for modeling the head. These traits are unlikely to represent a specific ophidian form and the longitudinal axis is marked by a stylistically different means.\n\nThe zoomorphic motif of the bracelets depicts a fantastic animal with the head and body of a serpent but the muzzle of a mammal, pointed or square, with a thick mane flowing on its back prolonged by a poly-lobed (multiple palmettes) body. The analysis of these Dacian symbols, performed by scholars—such as Florescu (1979), Pârvan (1926), and Bichir (1984)—conclude that the symbol of the snake or dragon appears on the Geto-Dacian La Tene bracelets and on the Dacian standard (flag) that can be seen on Trajan's Column. The Dacians dragon probably combines two meanings: the agility and redoubtable ferocity of the wolf with the protective role of the snake. It was supposed to encourage the Getae and to scare their enemies. It also appeared to have been the only one known representation of the religious character of the Dacians of the time. Scholastic interpretations vary between considering this a representation of a \"flying dragon\", related to a Sky God, or a chthonic symbol.\n\nSome bracelets from south of the Carpathians, such as those from Coada Malului, Bălăneşti and Rociu; and some from north of the Carpathians such as those from Dârlos and Vaidei (Romos)) do not have decorative elements to mark the median line on the rectangular plaque (the wider and flat portion coming next to the head). They instead have wavy lines, finely engraved, suggesting a mane or ridge. A similar style is seen in specimens from Senereuş, Dupuş (Sibiu County) and from the unknown Transylvanian site, the fragment of which is kept at the Budapest Museum. On the latter, the beam of wavy lines has been replaced by horizontal, short and dense, finely engraved lines.\n\nThe rectangular portion of the bracelets from Bălăneşti and Transylvania show a tendency to split into two teardrop-shaped lobes. On the subgroup of bracelets from Coada Malului, the fir-tree is depicted only schematically.\n\nIt was also noted that the snakes from the Agighiol artifacts of the 4th century BC, especially the depicted heads of snakes, have a stylization similar to that of the Dacian bracelet protomes; they have the same triangular form, and the same distribution of the decorations that mark the eye of the snake.\n\nThe flattened bands of the bracelets are decorated externally with a chain of geometrized palmettes that have been struck in much the same way as coins. It seems that the leaf-like ornaments have been made by impression, using ready-made moulds, as used in the manufacture of Dacian cups from the La Tène Crasani (com. Balaciu) site. Scholars, such as Popescu, related the chain of successive palmettes of the Dacian bracelets to the decoration of the borders on the Scythian Melgunov dagger sheath from the 6th century BC. Others consider that several multi-spiral bracelets, i.e. from Balanesti (Olt), have the same palmette motif as the typical decorations of the 4th-century BC Thracian-Getic helmet from Agighiol (com. Valea Nucarilor), Tulcea. In the opinion of Berciu, the palmette motif was adopted from the Greeks of the Black Sea coast during the Geto-Thracian Art period.\n\nDacian bracelets exhibit four decorative types of leaf-like triangular lobes: first is the most complex is of oval or triangular palmettes; the second is interpreted as representing fern leaves (e.g. the Orastie bracelet); the third is the fir-tree motif, where the rounded lobes become straight lines resembling a fir-tree branch; and the fourth whose shape preserves only the medial vein and the circles, suggesting the spiral arching of the lobes (e.g. the Feldioara bracelet).\n\nThe palmettes are more precisely outlined and more faithfully preserve the original lobes and palmette character, with several bracelets such as those from the Cluj Museum, Hetiur and Ghelinta. They are farthest away from a schematic fir-tree motif. A stylized ivy leaf-like style is common to the group of bracelets from Coada Malului, Rociu and Bălăneşti (Arges County), and Dupuş. It is formed using carved lines doubled with a fine series of dots.\n\nThe decorative snake style has been adopted in other types of ornaments, such as earrings from Răcătău and spiral rings from Sprâncenata and Popeşti-Novaci.\n\nThe silver ring from Măgura, Teleorman has four-and-a-half multi-spirals with snake-head terminals and a chain of five palmettes. It belongs to a small silver treasure—comprising three denarii that could be dated between 148–106 BC, and one ornament (the ring) —fortuitously discovered in 2005 and 2006 in a spot 330 m from Măgura village. The ring is considered by some, e.g. Mirea (2009), to be a miniaturized representation of the typical multi-spiral bracelets terminating with palmettes and snake protomes. There are particular analogies with the bracelets from Bălăneşti–Olt and Rociu–Argeş; as well as analogies with the spiral rings from Sprâncenata and Popeşti. The decorations are similar to a motif of the gold multi-spiral bracelets discovered in 1999–2001 at Sarmizegetusa Regia.\n\nThe multi-spiral bracelets made of plates with zoomorphic extremities, all of them made of silver and sometimes gilded, are characteristic of the north-Danubian Dacian elite, in particular ones from Transylvania. Also, according to Medelet (1976), one Dacian silver bracelet from Malak Porovets (Isperih Municipality Bulgaria) and one Dacian silver bracelet from Velika Vrbica (Serbia), belong to the same typology. Some of this type of bracelets, such as the one in the Cluj-Napoca Transilvanias History Museum and the two others in the National Museum Budapest (Hungary), are from unknown Transylvanian sites.\n\nIt is possible the big silver multi-spirals were used with clothes worn for special celebrations, though they do not seem to have a simply decorative use. The context of burying these prestige aristocratic insignia suggests that the treasures they compound were rather votive deposits than funeral offerings (cenotaph?).\n\nThe silver snake-headed multi-spiral bracelets are found in the context of the so-called Dacian silver treasures. A significant fact regarding these treasures is the specificity of the time frame, from around 125 BC – 25 AD (one century). In historical terms, they are contemporary to the reigns of Burebista, Deceneus and Comosicus. It is probable that the hoards of silver bracelets and ornaments of the late Geto-Dacian began to be produced just prior to the reign of Burebista, a possible example being the one from Sâncrăieni. The manufacturing of silver ornaments continued during his reign, although to a lesser extent (perhaps due to his authoritarian, despotic and purist nature), and mostly after his suppression of the manufacture (44 BC – 46 AD); therefore the silver hoard production lasted almost a century. The burying of these Dacian silver jewelry items and bracelets (those made between 44 BC and 46 AD) occurred in the same period of time that was characterized by a scarcity of silver due to the turbulent situation in Dacia.\n\nThis particular type of design has a unitary typology and a highly standardized character. It does not contain goods that had been accumulated over years, but only sets of certain objects. Also, they have not been found in the context of settlements but outside them, on carefully prepared deposits. These objects had not been temporarily concealed or hidden, because of some exposure to dangerous situations, but they were rather supposed to preserve the symbolic attributes of the social status in the afterlife.\n\nSeveral Dacian bracelets reached the collections of the Kunsthistorisches Vienna Museum through various channels: administrative, auctions, purchases, and donations. Though they were found in Transylvania, and belong to the similar archaeological context of the other Dacian silver treasures, they are rather accidental discoveries from the west and south of the Transylvanian plateau—both in the areas of the greatest concentration of Dacian culture in the Orăştie and Apuseni Mountains, where precious metal mineral deposits were, and are, to be found.\n\nGold artifacts in general, and gold bracelets in particular, have been scarce archaeological finds during excavations. An explanation could be that the Romans collected all gold objects by force after conquering Dacia. Some, including Manaila, explained the scarcity of these kinds of archaeological finds as due to Dacian religious reasons, all gold being collected by the priests and given to the Dacian king. Numerous researchers, including Rustoiu, argued the existence of a royal monopoly of the gold and silver exploitation in Dacia; and that after the Roman conquest, this monopoly passed to the Roman Emperor.\n\nThese gold bracelets, adorned with leaves and snake heads, weigh around 2.2 pounds (1 kilogram) each. There are remarkable analogies between the gold armlets and those made of silver from Coada Malului (Prahova County), Senereuş (Hunedoara County), Orăştie (Hunedoara County) and Herăstrău-Bucureşti. Most of them exhibit similar design and artistic themes, but there are no two identical bracelets.\nThe decorations on these bracelets is similar to the style of the ring from Magura (Teleorman County).\n\nOne such bracelet recovered in 2007 has both terminals depicting a stylized animal head, which represents a snake with a long muzzle, and is decorated with arched lines. The rectangular plaque's surface is decorated with transverse rows of arched incisions, grouped in four and a half metopes. The body is composed of seven palmettes, consisting of a fir tree-shape, and a dotted line in the middle, while the terminals oppose each other.\n\nThe number of spirals varies from six to eight. When uncoiled, some bracelets measure 2.30 m and others 2.80 m. The outside diameters range from 91 to 123 mm. The spirals consist of flat rectangular strips with richly incised decorations and stylized palmettes. In most of them, seven palmettes decorate both ends of the bracelets. The bracelets terminate with a decorative protoma, a beast-head motif which looks like the head of an animal (a wolf, a snake or a dog). The goldsmith technique, used for manufacturing all of these gold armlets, was the cold hammering of a rectangular-shaped gold ingot, followed by punching and engraving for their decorations. This was a typical method used by Dacians from the 4th century BC to 1st century AD.\n\nA bracelet recovered in 2009 has ten spirals. The terminals depict a stylized snake protome. The long muzzle is straight cut and the eyes and eyebrows are represented by curved lines. The head continues onto a rectangular plaque of 3.4 cm in length whose relief edges are decorated with incised oblique lines in a \"V\" shape, separated by a medial line. This is followed by a series of six triangular-oval palmettes, made by three puncheons, and with a length of 14.3 cm. The first puncheon made the first two palmettes, the second made the next two palmettes, and the third was used for the last—which is also the smallest palmette. The palmettes have a foliage design and their edges are raised and decorated with small incised oblique lines.\n\nSome two dozen of the gold multi-spiral zoomorphic-headed bracelets were discovered by archaeological looting in different spots in the area of Sarmisegetusa Regia, in the Orăștie Mountains. By 2011, twelve out of the twenty-four looted gold bracelets had been recovered and are housed at the Romanian National History Museum in Bucharest.\n\nAn archaeological context has been reconstituted on the basis of a forensic science approach, technical description, and archaeological interpretation. The multi-spiral bracelets had been uncovered from pits near to the \"Sacred area\" of the Dacian capital at Sarmizegetusa Regia (Hunedoara County), around 600 m from the sacred enclosure. The pits are located on the steep rocky slopes outside the ancient settlements, in a narrow valley. The bracelets site is located on a very steep and rocky area that involves a difficult climb and hinders \"classical\" archaeological approaches and research.\n\nThe treasure hunters discovered a spot where they found ten golden bracelets in a pit dug into natural rock on a 70° slope. The pit had two distinct overlapped cavities of triangular shape made of slabs, one containing six gold multi-spiral bracelets and the other four, that had each been deposited in pairs; the smaller bracelets were inserted into the larger ones. The finding of bracelets on such steep sloping cliffs, and at the outer limits (eastern) of the settlements, provides a new perspective regarding the ancient sites used for depositing artifacts with special religious significance. These deposits are composed of the same type of ornaments that have identical function and significance.\n\nThe general circumstances of the placement of these bracelets, deposited by the ancient populous, in these specially constructed pits and covered with uncut slabs imply that these artifacts were components of votive offerings. It seems as if these bracelets were used during initiations, or occult ceremonies, restricted to a certain category of people that had very important positions in the state: the king; the leaders of cities; the nobles from the royal entourage; and the priests. This explains the existence of similar pieces made of silver for the leading nobles and rulers of the cities, and the lack of similar specimens made of bronze, iron or other metals. It also explains why these types of bracelet do not appear in written sources, nor the figurative representations of the time.\n\nBased on typological analogy and stylistic analysis, historians believe that these bracelets are authentic Dacian artifacts. Some chronological evidence is provided by dark blotches that indicate a long period of time underground, and also by the ancient coins that were found along with bracelets. These coins point to the late 2nd century BC and the first decades of the 1st century BC. It appears that the bracelets were buried, if not necessarily crafted, during a time frame between 100 – 70 BC.\n\nThe chronology of these bracelets corresponds to the emergence of the building of religious sanctuaries, digging and arranging pits with a religious purpose where deposits of offerings to the chthonian gods had been made.\n\nIn 2007 a compositional analysis of these gold objects was performed using a non-destructive method, particle-induced X-ray emission (micro-PIXE measurements) and synchrotron X-Ray fluorescence (SR-XRF) analysis. More studies were performed in 2008 and 2009 by a team consisting of members from the National Institute for Nuclear Physics and Engineering, Romania, the National History Museum of Romania, and the BAM Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing, Germany. Researchers compared the gold composition, examining the trace platinum group elements, Tin, Tellurium, Antimony, Mercury, and Lead and comparing them with the corresponding elements of natural gold from Transylvania. This was done since these trace-elements are more significant for provenancing archaeological metallic-artifacts than the main element components. For these studies, several small fragments of natural Transylvanian gold – placer and primary – were analyzed using: the micro-PIXE technique at the Legnaro National Laboratory AN2000 micro-beam facility, Italy, and at the AGLAE accelerator, C2RMF, Paris, France; and by using micro-synchrotron radiation X-ray fluorescence (micro-SR-XRF) at the BESSY synchrotron, Berlin, Germany. The studies of the teams concluded that the gold multi-spiral bracelets found between 1999–2001 at Sarmizegethusa had been made of native Transylvanian gold and not refined gold.\n\nBecause of the adverse conditions surrounding the hoard's discovery, their origins may never be authenticated to the full satisfaction of archaeologists and scientists. Sceptics suggest that the bracelets could have been produced in modern times from metal obtained by melting ancient gold coins, Dacian coins of the KOSON type or Greek Lysimachus coins; however, the analyses performed so far do not confirm the use of gold from these coins in the bracelets' manufacture.\n\nIt is most likely that no other group of ancient goldwork has been more thoroughly examined by scientists, technologists and scholars in various countries and various institutions than the Dacian gold spirals with dragon terminals found between 1999–2001 at Sarmizegethusa. In each case-study, and completely independent from each other, their examinations led to the same conclusion.\n\n\n\n\n\nDacians' bracelets\n"}
{"id": "451109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451109", "title": "Delicatessen (film)", "text": "Delicatessen (film)\n\nDelicatessen is a 1991 French post-apocalyptic black comedy film directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet and Marc Caro, starring Dominique Pinon and Karin Viard. It was released in North America as \"presented by Terry Gilliam.\"\n\nIn a dilapidated apartment building in a post-apocalyptic country, food is in short supply and grain is used as currency. On the ground floor is a butcher's shop, run by the landlord, Clapet, who posts job opportunities in the \"Hard Times\" paper as means to lure victims to the building, whom he murders and butchers as a cheap source of meat to sell to his tenants.\n\nFollowing the murder of the last worker, unemployed circus clown Louison applies for the vacant position. During his routine maintenance, he befriends Clapet's daughter, Julie, a relationship which slowly blossoms into romance. Louison proves to be a superb worker with a spectacular trick knife and the butcher is reluctant to kill him too quickly. During this time several of the tenants fall under Louison's boyish charms, worrying others who are more anxious for their own safety should they require meat. Aware of her father's motives, Julie descends into the sewers to make contact with the feared Troglodistes, a group of vegetarian rebels, whom she persuades to help rescue Louison.\n\nDuring the apparent butchering of an old woman, the Troglodistes attack but are repelled, and Clapet, with the unsympathetic tenants, storms Louison's room in an attempt to murder him. Louison and Julie resist by flooding themselves, floor to ceiling, in an upper floor bathroom until Clapet opens the door releasing the flood and washing the attackers away. Clapet returns with Louison's knife and inadvertently kills himself. Louison and Julie play music together on the roof of the now peaceful apartment building.\n\nThe film was received well critically. \"Variety\" called it \"a zany little film that's a startling and clever debut.\" \"Empire\" called it a \"fair bet for cultdom, a lot more likeable than its subject matter suggests, and simply essential viewing for vegetarians\".\n\nNot all reviews were positive, however, with \"The New York Times\" saying \"its last half-hour is devoted chiefly to letting the characters wreck the sets, and quite literally becomes a washout when the bathtub overflows.\"\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gave it an approval rating of 88% from a total of 41 reviews with an average rating of 7.8/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Director Jean-Pierre Jeunet deftly combines horror, sci-fi, and humor in \"Delicatessen\", a morbid comedy set in a visually ravishing futuristic dystopia.\" Metacritic gave it 66 out of 100 out of a total of 17 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nThe film has won and been nominated for several important European awards. At the César Awards it won Best Editing, Best Debut, Best Production Design and Best Writing, at the European Film Awards it won Best Set Design, at Fantasporto the Audience Jury Award, at the Guild of German Art House Cinemas Best Foreign Film, at Sitges Best Actor, Best Director, Best Original Soundtrack and the Prize of Catalan Screenwriter's Critic and Writer's Association. At the Tokyo International Film Festival, it won the Gold Award. The film was nominated for the Grand Prix of the Belgian Syndicate of Cinema Critics. It also received nominations for those award ceremonies as well as for the BAFTAs.\n\n"}
{"id": "46833937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46833937", "title": "Great Seal of Ireland", "text": "Great Seal of Ireland\n\nThe Great Seal of Ireland was the seal used until 1922 by the Dublin Castle administration to authenticate important state documents in Ireland, in the same manner as the Great Seal of the Realm in England. The Great Seal of Ireland was used in the Lordship of Ireland (1180s–1534) and the Kingdom of Ireland (1534–1800), and remained in use when the island was part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (1801–1922), just as the Great Seal of Scotland remained in use after the Act of Union 1707.\n\nThe office of \"Lord Keeper of the Great Seal of Ireland\" was held by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland. The Chancellor was presented with the physical seal upon taking his oath of office, and it was otherwise kept in the Court of Chancery. When the Chancellor was absent, Lords Commissioners of the Great Seal were appointed. The seal was affixed to documents issued by the Privy Council of Ireland and its head the chief governor (latterly called the Lord Lieutenant). In the fifteenth century, the Chief Governor was generally non-resident and was represented by a Lord Deputy. The Governor or Deputy would issue a type of writ called a fiant to the Lord Chancellor, mandating the issue of a patent (\"letters patent\") under the Great Seal. In the fourteenth century, the Chancellor was entitled to a guard of six men-at-arms and twelve mounted archers, in part to protect the seal in his custody. The Chief Governor was appointed in London under the Great Seal of England, but a 1498 Act allowed a vacancy to be temporarily filled by the Dublin administration under the Irish seal. This practice was applied several times in the 1690s. In the fifteenth century, the Governor was appointed under the king's privy seal and appointed his Deputy under the Irish seal. From 1700 to 1767, non-resident Lords Lieutenant were appointed under the British Great Seal, and would in turn use the Irish seal to appoint resident Lord Justices as deputies.\n\nBefore the Act of Union 1800, any bill passed by the Parliament of Ireland and approved by the Privy Council of Ireland was sent to London under the Great Seal of Ireland and, if approved by the Privy Council of England (later the Privy Council of Great Britain), was returned under the Great Seal of the Realm to be enacted. This procedure was required both under Poynings' Law (1495) and under the Constitution of 1782 which amended it. Parliament was summoned under the Great Seal of England rather than that of Ireland, even after 1782.\n\nTitles in the Peerage of Ireland were originally created under the English seal. After the Williamite War they were usually created under the Irish seal, but creations under the British seal continued, even after the Constitution of 1782, until the Act of Union 1800. Robert Raymond, 1st Baron Raymond wrote that, under the British seal, the Irish nature of the peerage had to be made explicit. Sometimes a single patent created separate titles in the Irish and English/British peerages for the same person. After the Union, the question of whether Irish peers appointed under the British seal were entitled to vote for Irish representative peers was considered by the British House of Lords in 1805.\n\nThe 1289 \"ordinance for the State of Ireland\" forbade purveyance except by a commission under the Great Seal of Ireland. From the Tudor Reconquest, appointments to the were made entirely under the Irish seal.\n\nAn Irish chancery was established in 1232 separate from the English chancery, and all documents issued from the Irish chancery were sealed with the \"great seal of the king used in Ireland\". Most thirteenth-century land grants continued to be issued in England with the English seal, and then sent to the Irish chancery to be enrolled. In 1256, King Henry III granted the Lordship of Ireland to his heir, the future Edward I, and ordered that Edward's personal seal should have \"royal authority\" there. Henry took Ireland back from Edward in 1258. Robert de Vere, Duke of Ireland was similarly authorised to use his own great seal by Richard II in 1385; Richard ordered de Vere's seal to be broken in 1389. In the 1300s, pardons for felony were granted under both the Irish and the English seals.\n\nIn 1417, the Chancellor, Laurence Merbury, refused to authenticate with the seal a petition to the King from the Parliament on the state of Ireland. In 1423, the Chancellor Richard Talbot, archbishop of Dublin, refused to acknowledge Edward Dantsey, Bishop of Meath, as Deputy because the Governor, Edmund Mortimer, 5th Earl of March, had appointed Dantsey with his privy seal instead of the Great Seal. In 1460, Richard of York, under threat of arrest in England, fled to Ireland and persuaded the parliament to pass a declaration of independence stating in part that Ireland was \"corporate of itself\" and that \"henceforth no person or persons being in the said land of Ireland shall be, by any command given or made under any other seal than the said seal of the said land, compelled to answer to any appeal or any other matter out of the said land\". The Lord Deputy Gerald FitzGerald, 8th Earl of Kildare refused Edward IV's command to annul this, and it was not until Edward Poynings in 1495 that this was done.\n\nIn 1478, after Kildare was replaced as Lord Deputy by Henry Grey, 4th (7th) Baron Grey of Codnor, the Lord Chancellor Rowland FitzEustace, 1st Baron Portlester, who was Kildare's father-in-law, organised a campaign of non-co-operation with the new Deputy and refused to hand over the Great Seal, making the conduct of official business impossible. Kildare argued that Grey had been appointed under the privy signet instead of the Irish Great Seal. King Edward IV ordered Thomas Archbold, the Master of the Royal Mint in Ireland, to strike a new Great Seal, \"as near as he could to the pattern and fabric of the other, with the difference of a rose in every part\". The king decreed that the Seal held by Portlester was annulled, and that all acts passed under it under it were utterly void; but to no avail. So effective was the campaign of obstruction that after a few months Lord Grey was forced to return to England. In 1484, James Collynge, a clerk, was brought before the Chief Justice of Common Pleas charged with forging the Great Seal of Ireland.\n\nOne of the developments which Henry VII and the Tudor Reconquest of Ireland sought to reverse was that the Lord Deputy's private seal, kept by his secretary, was being used in place of the Great Seal of Ireland. In 1638, Lord Chancellor Adam Loftus refused to kneel before Lord Deputy Thomas Wentworth when delivering the Great Seal to him, contributing to the breakdown in their relationship. In 1662, the fee to the Lord Chancellor for patents under the Great Seal was increased to 10 shillings sterling per patentee. The 1722 patent for Wood's halfpence was issued under the British seal rather than the Irish, which was among the complaints Jonathan Swift made in his \"Drapier's Letters\" condemning the currency.\n\nThe Constitution of 1782 removed the role of the British great seal in Irish legislation. Napper Tandy of the Society of United Irishmen challenged his 1792 arrest on the grounds that government officials, from the Lord Lieutenant down, had been appointed under the British rather than the Irish seal. This was intended not to persuade the judges, who vehemently rejected the argument, but to increase public sympathy.\n\nThe Act of Union 1800 provided that the Great Seal of Ireland could continue to be used in Ireland, and that at elections to the Westminster parliament for constituencies in Ireland, the writs and certified returns would be under the Irish rather than the British seal.\n\nA new seal was created for each new monarch, whose likeness would be on the obverse. (On the accession of Richard II in 1377, the seal of Edward III was re-used to save money, with only the king's name being updated.) The seal included the arms of Ireland: until 1536, three crowns; after that, an Irish harp. From Queen Victoria on, the Great Seal of Ireland had the same design as the Great Seal of the Realm except for the inclusion of the Irish harp. James Roderick O'Flanagan described the contemporary seal in 1870:\nThe seal matrix was cast in silver and the impressions made in sealing wax. Irish Great Seals are attested from the thirteenth century, though surviving impressions of them are rare. Most state papers were destroyed, in multiple fires between 1304 and 1758, and in an explosion in the Battle of Dublin in 1922. According to Hilary Jenkinson, \"a fairly intensive search some years [before 1954] in England and Ireland for impressions of the Irish Seals produced a total of only forty, for the period from the thirteenth century onward\".\n\nThe Government of Ireland Act 1920 transferred custody of the seal from the Lord Chancellor to the Lord Lieutenant on 27 June 1921. The physical seal was in the Crown and Hanaper Office in the Four Courts when that was occupied by the Irish Republican Army on 14 April 1922 in the buildup to the Civil War. Under British law the writs for the Irish Free State election of 16 June 1922 had to be passed under the Great Seal, so an order in council was passed to authorise a substitute seal. The explosion in the Four Courts during the Battle of Dublin was initially assumed to have destroyed the Great Seal, but it was later found in the rubble. The 1920 act intended the Great Seal of Ireland to be used by both Northern Ireland and Southern Ireland. Judges were appointed in 1921 and 1922 to Northern Ireland courts by letters patent under the Great Seal of Ireland. Several writs for the Westminster election of 15 November 1922 were burnt by republicans in Dublin when sent from Northern Ireland to be sealed.\n\nIn December 1922, under the Irish Free State (Consequential Provisions) Act 1922 a separate Great Seal of Northern Ireland was created. The letters patent appointing the first Governor of Northern Ireland allowed him to use his private seal until the Great Seal was ready. Although the Constitution of the Irish Free State did not mention any seal, the letters patent appointing its first Governor-General mandated its use, with similar interim provision for a private seal. The Great Seal of the Irish Free State was delivered in 1925 to a design agreed by the Executive Council. As in other Dominions of the then British Commonwealth, the Great Seal of the Realm was used for some diplomatic functions. In 1931, a separate \"External Great Seal\" was struck to replace the Great Seal of the Realm in these functions. Under the 1937 Constitution of Ireland, the Seal of the President of Ireland replaced the internal Free State seal, but the External Great Seal remained in use, until the Republic of Ireland Act 1948 came into force.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54395985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54395985", "title": "Großwilsdorf", "text": "Großwilsdorf\n\nThe villages of Großwilsdorf and the Rödel Plateau are situated in Saxony-Anhalt in the middle of Germany. It has been proposed by Germany for inscription in the List of World Heritage. The World Heritage nomination Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut is representative for the processes that shaped the continent during the High Middle Ages between 1000 and 1300: Christianization, the so-called Landesausbau and the dynamics of cultural exchange and transfer characteristic for this very period.\n\nThe farming community of Gross-Wilsdorf consists of two villages. It is an example of a circular village structure in the Slav-German settlement.\nThe entrance of the high medieval village was traditionally marked by a pond. This pond was kept for use as service water in everyday life and for fire fighting in cases of emergency. In the village of Gross-Wilsdorf, you can also find a Romanesque choir tower church, which had been erected between the two high medieval settlement nucleuses of Gross-Wilsdorf and Kleinwilsdorf and which has partly been preserved. The tombstones of the church were ornamented with engraved crosses and a stick-like image deemed to be a walking stick. Since medieval tombstones in places other than large cathedrals and minsters have rarely been preserved, the tombstones in Gross-Wilsdorf can be considered special.\n\nThe villages of Großwilsdorf demonstrate the cultural exchange of neighboring settlers in the region, who all relied at first on their traditional settlement forms. Sorbs, Thuringians, and other groups created three individual round villages in the 12th century, that all shared the same village church built right in the middle between these settlements. During the High Middle Ages these settlers from different regions and ethnicities mixed and the villages grew together, forming nowaday Großwilsdorf. The layouts of houses and streets are still well preserved and dated to the High Middle Ages.\n\nAdjoining the village lies the Rödel Plateau with its porous limestone layers. The important limestone quarry “Rödel” served for producing large-sized cut stones of highest quality and supplied the Naumburg Cathedral with building material. Neuenburg Castle was almost entirely built using the local shell limestone. Structural elements of higher quality were made using shell limestone from the surrounding quarries. This quarry also is visible and unchanged until today, as are the transport paths for the limestone to Naumburg.\n\nIn the year 1032, King Conrad II gave the royal court of Balgstädt to the Cathedral of Naumburg, including all accessories such as rocks and cliffs (molis). The monastery was granted the permission to dig out suitable rock material there freely, to break it up, roll it out and carry it away. The great number of pits identified by way of laser scans clearly reflect that there was likely a multitude of entitled parties and producers because of the highly fragmented nature of medieval stone quarrying. Parcels could be identified in the forests on the Rödel Plateau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37211476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37211476", "title": "Hasina (Madagascar)", "text": "Hasina (Madagascar)\n\nHasina is the concept of sanctity and imbued authority in the traditional culture of Madagascar. An individual is believed to be imbued with \"hasina\", which can be augmented or diminished by their actions or by the tribute or authority conceded to them by others. Rulers in traditional society were the ultimate embodiment of \"hasina\", whereas community leaders and heads of families possessed relatively less. The same term, \"hasina\", was used to describe tributes given to political leaders, which in the 19th century Kingdom of Imerina typically took the form of a silver coin and accompanying prayer.\n"}
{"id": "13728482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13728482", "title": "Horrors of Malformed Men", "text": "Horrors of Malformed Men\n\nHirosuke (Teruo Yoshida), a medical student with almost no recollection of his past, is trapped in an asylum, despite being perfectly sane. After escaping from the loony bin, and being framed for the murder of a circus girl, he spots the photo of a recently deceased man, Genzaburo Komoda, to whom he bears an uncanny resemblance. By pretending to have been resurrected, Hirosuke assumes the dead man's identity, fooling everyone, including Komoda's widow and mistress. Whilst at the Komoda household, Hirosuke recalls memories that convince him to travel to a nearby island, home of Jogoro, the web-fingered father of Genzaburo. Whilst on the island, Hirosuke not only discovers Jogoro's plans to build his 'ideal community' (by transforming perfectly normal humans into hideous freaks), but also the awful truth behind his own identity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn August 28, 2007, Synapse Films and Panik House gave \"Horrors of Malformed Men\" a mass-market release on region-1 DVD.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 100% based on , with a weighted average rating of 7.7/10.\n\nDonald Guarisco from Allmovie praised the film, calling it \"a powerful, transgressive work that still packs a punch\". Stuart Galbraith IV from DVD Talk wrote, \"With its odd mix of absurdist theater, surreal images, taboo-breaking depravity, and commercially driven exploitation, it's all over the stylistic map and not for all tastes, but a fascinating film on many levels\". Ian Jane from \"RockShockPop.com\" called it \"A genuine holy grail of Japanese genre cinema\", commending the film's choreography, cinematography, mood, and use of surreal imagery. Arty Flores from \"HorrorNews.net\" liked the film, commending its bizarre and surreal imagery, while also noting that the film felt dated.\n\nThe film is considered a precursor to Toei's ventures into the \"Pinky violent\" style in the early 1970s.\n"}
{"id": "149698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149698", "title": "Idylls of the King", "text": "Idylls of the King\n\nIdylls of the King, published between 1859 and 1885, is a cycle of twelve narrative poems by the English poet Alfred, Lord Tennyson (1809–1892; Poet Laureate from 1850) which retells the legend of King Arthur, his knights, his love for Guinevere and her tragic betrayal of him, and the rise and fall of Arthur's kingdom. The whole work recounts Arthur's attempt and failure to lift up mankind and create a perfect kingdom, from his coming to power to his death at the hands of the traitor Mordred. Individual poems detail the deeds of various knights, including Lancelot, Geraint, Galahad, and Balin and Balan, and also Merlin and the Lady of the Lake. There is little transition between Idylls, but the central figure of Arthur links all the stories. The poems were dedicated to the late Albert, Prince Consort.\nThe \"Idylls\" are written in blank verse. Tennyson's descriptions of nature are derived from observations of his own surroundings, collected over the course of many years. The dramatic narratives are not an epic either in structure or tone, but derive elegiac sadness in the style of the idylls of Theocritus. \"Idylls of the King\" is often read as an allegory of the societal conflicts in Britain during the mid-Victorian era.\n\nTennyson based his retelling primarily on Sir Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" and the \"Mabinogion\", but with many expansions, additions, and several adaptations, a notable example of which is the fate of Guinevere. In Malory she is sentenced to be burnt at the stake but is rescued by Lancelot; in the \"Idylls\" Guinevere flees to a convent, is forgiven by Arthur, repents, and serves in the convent until she dies. Tennyson amended the traditional spellings of several names to fit the metre.\n\nPart of the work was written in the Hanbury Arms in Caerleon, where a plaque commemorates the event.\n\nThe first set of \"Idylls\", \"Enid\", \"Vivien\", \"Elaine\", and \"Guinevere\", was published in 1859. \"Enid\" was later divided into \"The Marriage of Geraint\" and \"Geraint and Enid\", and \"Guinevere\" was expanded. \"The Holy Grail and Other Poems\" appeared ten years later. \"The Last Tournament\" was published in \"Contemporary Review\" in 1871. \"Gareth and Lynette\" was published the following year. The final idyll, \"Balin and Balan\", was published in \"Tiresias and Other Poems\" in 1885. The Dedication was published in 1862, a year after the Prince Consort had died; the epilogue, \"To the Queen,\" was published in 1873.\n\nThe first of the Idylls covers the period following Arthur's coronation, his accession, and marriage. The besieged Leodogran, King of Cameliard, appeals to Arthur for help against the beasts and heathen hordes. Arthur vanquishes these and then the Barons who challenge his legitimacy. Afterwards he requests the hand of Leodogran's daughter, Guinevere, whom he loves. Leodogran, grateful but also doubtful of Arthur's lineage, questions his chamberlain, Arthur's emissaries, and Arthur's half-sister Bellicent (the character known as Anna or Morgause in other versions), receiving a different account from each. He is persuaded at last by a dream of Arthur crowned in heaven. Lancelot is sent to bring Guinevere, and she and Arthur wed in May. At the wedding feast, Arthur refuses to pay the customary tribute to the Lords from Rome, declaring, “The old order changeth, yielding place to new.” This phrase is repeated by Arthur throughout the work. Tennyson's use of the phrase in both the first and last Idyll, and throughout the work, is indicative of the change in Britain's, and Arthur's, fortunes. At this point, the phrase indicates the passing of Rome and the Heathens; In \"The Passing of Arthur\", it indicates the downfall of Arthur's kingdom.\n\nTennyson based \"Gareth and Lynette\" on the fourth (Caxton edition: seventh) book of Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". No version of the story earlier than Malory's is known; it is possible that Malory created the tale himself, though he may have relied on an older work that is now lost.\n\nOf all the Idylls, “Gareth and Lynette” is sweetest and most innocent. Gareth, Bellicent and Lot's last son, dreams of knighthood but is frustrated by his mother. After a lengthy argument she clinches the matter, or so she thinks, by ordering him to serve as an anonymous scullion in Arthur's kitchens for a year and a day. To her disappointment, he agrees. Upon his arrival incognito at Camelot, Gareth is greeted by a disguised Merlin, who tells him the city is never built at all, and therefore built forever, and warns him that Arthur will bind him by vows no man can keep. Gareth is angered by his apparent tomfoolery, but is himself rebuked for going disguised to the truthful Arthur.\n\nArthur consents to the boy's petition for kitchen service. After Gareth has served nobly and well for a month, Bellicent repents and frees him from his vow. Gareth is secretly knighted by Arthur, who orders Lancelot to keep a discreet eye on him. Gareth's first quest comes in the form of the cantankerous Lynette, who begs Arthur for Lancelot's help in freeing her sister Lyonors. Rather than Lancelot, she is given Gareth, still seemingly a kitchen servant. Indignant, she flees, and abuses Gareth sorely when he catches up. On their journey he proves himself again and again, but she continues to call him knave and scullion. Gareth remains courteous and gentle throughout. Throughout the journey to the Castle Perilous, he overthrows the soi-disant knight of the Morning Star, knight of the Noonday Sun, knight of the Evening Star, and finally the most terrible knight of Death, who is revealed as a boy coerced into his role by his older brothers. Tennyson concludes: “And he [Malory] that told the tale in older times / Says that Sir Gareth wedded Lyonors, / But he, that told it later [Tennyson], says Lynette.”\n\n\"Enid\" was initially written as a single poem but was later divided into two parts: \"The Marriage of Geraint\" and \"Geraint and Enid\". It is based on one of the Welsh Romances, \"Geraint and Enid\", of the \"Mabinogion\".\n\nGeraint, tributary prince of Devon and one of Arthur's bravest knights, is married to Enid, the only daughter of Yniol. He loves his wife deeply and she responds with equal affection; her only wish is to please him. At this time, the first rumours about Lancelot and Guinevere begin to spread throughout the court, but as yet there is no proof that any romance really exists. Geraint believes the stories and begins to fear that Enid will follow the bad example of her friend, the queen. His worries begin to plague him and he finally asks Arthur's permission to return to Devon.\n\nAfter they arrive home, Geraint is very affectionate and attentive to his wife. He totally neglects his duties as a ruler and a knight, for he is obsessed with the idea that Enid has left a lover behind at the palace. Made suspicious by his jealousy, he stays at Enid's side at all times. Before long, Geraint's reputation begins to suffer. His people secretly scoff at him and jeer that his manliness is gone. Enid also is upset by his new and disgraceful way of life, but she is afraid to criticise him since she does not want to cause him any pain.\n\nOne morning as they lie in bed, she muses out loud about her sad dilemma and berates herself as a bad wife for remaining silent. Geraint awakens and overhears her last few words. He jumps to the conclusion that she is confessing her infidelity and is infuriated. He angrily shouts that he is still a warrior, despite all rumours, and that he will at once go on a quest to prove his prowess. She alone is to accompany him, taking no baggage and wearing her oldest and most shabby dress.\n\nGeraint and Enid set out on their journey that very morning. Geraint orders Enid to ride in front of him and not to speak, whatever the provocation. Perhaps, Tennyson hints, this command is because he still loves her and is afraid that in some outburst of his brooding jealousy he will harm her. The two ride on slowly into the bandit-infested wilderness adjoining Devon. Neither speaks, and both look pale and unhappy.\n\nAfter a while, Enid notices three knights and overhears them planning to attack Geraint. He is riding so listlessly that he inspires no fear in them. She does not wish to disobey his order to her, but is afraid that he might be harmed. Finally she rides back and warns him. Rather than show any gratitude, Geraint criticises Enid for her disobedience and needles her about his suspicion that she really wants him to be defeated. Geraint engages the knights and is victorious. He piles the armour of the dead knights on their horses and makes Enid lead them as she rides.\n\nThe same episode is repeated again with three other knights, and once more Geraint chastises Enid for her disobedience. He is triumphant in each fight. Now Enid is forced to lead six captured horses. Geraint has some sympathy for her difficulty handling them, but does not offer to help.\n\nIn the afternoon, Geraint and Enid dine with some farm workers and are then guided to an inn for the night. After arranging for accommodations, Geraint continues to be sullen and nasty. Later that evening, they are visited at the inn by the local ruler, Earl Limours, who, by chance, happens to have once been a suitor of Enid's. Limours is a crude drunkard, and Geraint callously allows him to make all sorts of coarse jokes, much to the distress and embarrassment of Enid. Before leaving for the night, Limours informs Enid that he still loves her and plans the next morning to rescue her from her cruel husband.\n\nWhen day breaks, Enid warns Geraint of the plot. He, of course, suspects her of having encouraged the earl and is angry. They leave the inn immediately but are pursued by Limours and his followers. In a running fight, Geraint is able to drive them off.\n\nSoon the unhappy couple enters the lawless territory of Earl Doorm the Bull. Suddenly Geraint collapses from his wounds. Enid is powerless to aid him and she sits by his side, weeping while he lies unconscious. After a while, Doorm and his soldiers ride past, returning from a raid. The outlaw earl's curiosity is aroused by the lovely maiden and he questions her. Doorm insists that the wounded knight is dead, but Enid refuses to believe him. The outlaw chieftain has his soldiers bring Geraint's body and Enid to his stronghold.\n\nAs they gallop off together on one horse, they meet Edyrn, son of Nudd. He informs them that he is an advance scout for an army led by Arthur to rid this province of thieves and outlaws. He offers to guide them to the king's camp where Geraint reports to Arthur. After Geraint is shamed by the praise Arthur gives him, he and Enid are reconciled in their tent. When Geraint is well again they all return to Caerleon. Later on, the happy couple returns to Devon. Geraint's chivalrous and commendable behaviour as ruler and knight ends all rumours about him.\n\n\"Balin and Balan\" is based on the tale of Sir Balin in Book II of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". Malory's source was the Old French Post-Vulgate Cycle, specifically the text known as the \"Suite du Merlin\".\n\nThe brothers Sir Balin \"the Savage\" and Balan return to Arthur's hall after three years of exile, and are welcomed warmly. When Arthur's envoys return, they report the death of one of Arthur's knights from a demon in the woods. Balan offers to hunt the demon, and before he departs warns Balin against his terrible rages, which were the cause of their exile. Balin tries to learn gentleness from Lancelot, but despairs and concludes that Lancelot's perfect courtesy is beyond his reach. Instead, he takes the Queen's crown for his shield. Several times it reminds him to restrain his temper.\n\nThen, one summer morning, Balin beholds an ambiguous exchange between Lancelot and the Queen that fills him with confusion. He leaves Camelot and eventually arrives at the castle of Pellam and Garlon. When Garlon casts aspersions on the Queen, Balin kills him and flees. Ashamed of his temper, he hangs his crowned shield in a tree, where Vivien and her squire discover it, and then Balin himself. She spins lies to Balin that confirm his suspicions about Guinevere. He shrieks, tears down his shield, and tramples it. In that same wood, Balan hears the cry and believes he has found his demon. The brothers clash and only too late recognise each other. Dying, Balan assures Balin that their Queen is pure and good.\n\nHaving boasted to King Mark that she will return with the hearts of Arthur's knights in her hand, Vivien begs and receives shelter in Guinevere's retinue. While in Camelot, she sows rumours of the Queen's affair. She fails to seduce the King, for which she is ridiculed, and turns her attentions to Merlin. She follows him when he wanders out of Arthur's court, troubled by visions of impending doom. She intends to coax out of Merlin a spell that will trap him forever, believing his defeat would be her glory. She protests her love to Merlin, declaring he cannot love her if he doubts her. When he mentions Arthur's knights' gossip about her, she slanders every one of them. Merlin meets every accusation but one: that of Lancelot's illicit love, which he admits is true. Worn down, he allows himself to be seduced, and tells Vivien how to work the charm. She immediately uses it on him, and so he is imprisoned forever, as if dead to anyone but her, in a hollow, nearby oak tree.\n\n\"Lancelot and Elaine\" is based upon the story of Elaine of Astolat, found in \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", the Lancelot-Grail Cycle, and the Post-Vulgate Cycle. Tennyson had previously treated a similar subject in \"The Lady of Shalott\", published in 1833 and revised in 1842; however, that poem was based on the thirteenth-century Italian novella \"Donna do Scalotta\", and thus has little in common with Malory's version.\n\nLong ago, Arthur happened upon the skeletons of two warring brothers, one wearing a crown of nine diamonds. Arthur retrieved the crown and removed the diamonds. At eight annual tourneys, he awarded a diamond to the tournament winner. The winner has always been Lancelot, who plans to win once more and give all nine diamonds to his secret love Queen Guinevere. Guinevere chooses to stay back from the ninth tournament, and Lancelot then tells Arthur he too will not attend. Once they are alone, she berates Lancelot for giving grounds for slander from court and reminds Lancelot that she cannot love her too-perfect king, Arthur. Lancelot then agrees to go to the tournament, but in disguise. He borrows armour, arms and colours from a remote noble, the Lord of Astolat, and as a finishing touch, agrees to wear Astolat's daughter Elaine's token favour, which he has never done \"for any woman\". Lancelot's flattering chivalry wins over the impressionable young Elaine's heart. Here the Idyll repeats Malory's account of the tournament and its aftermath.\n\nElaine has thus fallen in love with Lancelot. When he tells her that their love can never be, she wishes for death. She later becomes weak and dies. As per her request, her father and brothers put her on a barge with a note to Lancelot and Guinevere. Lancelot has returned to Camelot to present the nine diamonds to Guinevere. In an unwarranted jealous fury, the Queen hurls the diamonds out the window into the river, just as Elaine's funeral barge passes below. This is fulfilling of a dream Elaine spoke of in which she held the ninth diamond, but it was too slippery to hold and fell into a body of water. Elaine's body is brought into the hall and her letter read, at which the lords and ladies weep. Guinevere privately asks Lancelot's forgiveness. The knight muses that Elaine loved him more than the Queen, wonders if all the Queen's love has rotted to jealousy, and wishes he was never born.\n\nThis Idyll is told in flashback by Sir Percivale, who had become a monk and died one summer before the account, to his fellow monk Ambrosius. His pious sister had beheld the Grail and named Galahad her \"knight of heaven\", declaring that he, too, would behold it. One summer night in Arthur's absence, Galahad sits in the Siege Perilous. The hall is shaken with thunder, and a vision of the covered Grail passes the knights. Percivale swears that he will quest for it a year and a day, a vow echoed by all the knights. When Arthur returns, he hears the news with horror. Galahad, he says, will see the Grail, and perhaps Percivale and Lancelot also, but the other knights are better suited to physical service than spiritual. The Round Table disperses. Percivale travels through a surreal, allegorical landscape until he meets Galahad in a hermitage. They continue together until Percivale can no longer follow, and he watches Galahad depart to a heavenly city in a boat like a silver star. Percival sees the grail, far away, not as close or real an image as Galahad saw, above Galahad's head. After the period of questing, only a remnant of the Round Table returns to Camelot. Some tell stories of their quests. Gawain decided to give up and spent pleasant times relaxing with women, until they were all blown over by a great wind, and he figured it was time to go home. Lancelot found a great, winding staircase, and climbed it until he found a room which was hot as fire and very surreal, and saw a veiled version of the grail wrapped in samite, a heavy silk popular in the Middle Ages, which is mentioned several times throughout the Idylls. \"The Holy Grail\" is symbolic of the Round Table being broken apart, a key reason for the doom of Camelot.\n\nTennyson's source for \"Pelleas and Ettare\" was again Malory, who had himself adapted the story from the Post-Vulgate Cycle.\n\nIn an ironic echo of \"Gareth and Lynette\", the young, idealistic Pelleas meets and falls in love with the lady Ettare. She thinks him a fool, but treats him well at first because she wishes to hear herself proclaimed the \"Queen of Beauty\" at the tournament. For Pelleas' sake, Arthur declares it a \"Tournament of Youth\", barring his veteran warriors. Pelleas wins the title and circlet for Ettare, who immediately ends her kindness to him. He follows her to her castle, where for a sight of her he docilely allows himself to be bound and maltreated by her knights, although he can and does overthrow them all. Gawain observes this one day with outrage. He offers to court Ettare for Pelleas, and for this purpose borrows his arms and shield. When admitted to the castle, he announces that he has killed Pelleas.\n\nThree nights later, Pelleas enters the castle in search of Gawain. He passes a pavilion of Ettare's knights, asleep, and then a pavilion of her maidens, and then comes to a pavilion where he finds Ettare in Gawain's arms. He leaves his sword across their throats to show that, if not for Chivalry, he could have killed them. When Ettare wakes, she curses Gawain. Her love turns to Pelleas, and she pines away. Disillusioned with Arthur's court, Pelleas leaves Camelot to become the Red Knight in the North.\n\nGuinevere had once fostered an infant found in an eagle's nest, who had a ruby necklace wrapped around its neck. After the child died, Guinevere gave the jewels to Arthur to make a tournament prize. However, before the tournament, a mutilated peasant stumbles into the hall. He was tortured by the Red Knight in the North, who has set up a parody of the Round Table with lawless knights and harlots. Arthur delegates the judging of the Tournament to Lancelot and takes a company to purge the evil. \"The Tournament of the Dead Innocence\" becomes a farce, full of discourtesies, broken rules, and insults. Sir Tristram wins the rubies. Breaking tradition, he rudely declares to the ladies that the \"Queen of Beauty\" is not present. Arthur's fool, Dagonet, mocks Tristram. In the north, meanwhile, Arthur's knights, too full of rage and disgust to heed their King, trample the Red Knight, massacre his men and women, and set his tower ablaze.\n\nTristram gives the rubies to Queen Isolt, Mark's wife, who is furious that he has married Isolt of Brittany. They taunt each other, but at the last he puts the necklace about her neck and bends to kiss her. At that moment Mark rises up behind him and splits his skull.\n\nGuinevere has fled to the convent at Almesbury. On the night that she and Lancelot had determined to part forever, Mordred, tipped off by Vivien, watched and listened with witnesses to their farewells. Guinevere rejects Lancelot's offer of sanctuary in his castle overseas, choosing instead to take anonymous shelter in the convent. She is befriended by a little novice. But when rumours of war between Arthur and Lancelot and Mordred's usurpation reach the convent, the novice's careless chatter pricks the Queen's conscience. She describes to Guinevere the glorious kingdom in her father's day, \"before the coming of the sinful Queen.\"\n\nThe King comes. She hears his steps and falls on her face. He stands over her and grieves over her, himself, and his kingdom, reproaches her, and forgives her. She watches him leave and repents, hoping they will be reunited in heaven. She serves in the abbey, is later chosen Abbess, and dies three years later.\n\nThis section of the \"Idylls\" is a much expanded and altered version of Thomas Malory's \"Morte d'Arthur\".\n\nIn the disastrous last battle, Arthur kills Mordred, and, in turn, receives a mortal wound. The entire Round Table has been killed with the exception of Sir Bedivere, who carries the King to a church (Avalon), where Arthur first received Excalibur from the Lady of the Lake. Arthur orders Bedivere to throw the sword into the lake to fulfill a prophecy written on the blade. Sir Bedivere resists twice, but on the third time obeys and is rewarded by the sight of an arm \"clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful\" rising from the water to catch the sword. This was the Lady of the Lake. Sir Bedivere returns to Arthur in the church and tells him what he saw. Arthur believes him and passes with Sir Bedivere watching, as the new sun rises on a new year.\n\nTennyson sought to encapsulate the past and the present in the \"Idylls.\" Arthur in the story is often seen as an embodiment of Victorian ideals; he is said to be \"ideal manhood closed in real man\" and the \"stainless gentleman.\" Arthur often has unrealistic expectations for the Knights of the Round Table and for Camelot itself, and despite his best efforts he is unable to uphold the Victorian ideal in his Camelot. \"Idylls\" also contains explicit references to Gothic interiors, Romantic appreciations of nature, and anxiety over gender role reversals—all pointing to the work as a specifically Victorian one.\n\nIn the Victorian age there was a renewed interest in the idea of courtly love, or the finding of spiritual fulfilment in the purest form of romantic love. This idea is embodied in the relationship between Guinevere and Arthur in the poem especially; the health of the state is blamed on Guinevere when she does not live up to the purity expected of her by Arthur as she does not sufficiently serve him spiritually. Tennyson's position as poet laureate during this time and the popularity of the \"Idylls\" served to further propagate this view of women in the Victorian age.\n\n"}
{"id": "13741939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13741939", "title": "Imigongo", "text": "Imigongo\n\nImigongo () is an art form popular in Rwanda traditionally made by women using cow dung. Often in the colors black, white and red, popular themes include spiral and geometric designs that are painted on walls, pottery, and canvas. \n\nThe images are produced using cow dung which is put onto wooden boards in spiral and geometric designs. The dung is left to harden and is then decorated using colours made from organic material. The traditional colours are black, white, red, grey and beige-yellow but increasingly other colours are used.\n\nThe imigongo images were originally found in Kibungo inside the walls of huts as \"magical\" decorations during the 18th century.\n\nDuring the 1994 Genocide the skills involved almost disappeared. However, a women's cooperative on the road to Rusumo in the Eastern Province near Kirehe has rescued and revived this uniquely Rwandan art form. Traditionally geometric designs are produced but as the women artists have grown in confidence they have begun to experiment with more modern, innovative images that convey the spirit of the Rwandan landscape, its flora and fauna and its people.\n\n"}
{"id": "7863182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7863182", "title": "Jacob Saphir", "text": "Jacob Saphir\n\nJacob Saphir (1822–1886) () was a Meshulach and traveler of Romanian Jewish descent, born in Ashmyany, government of Wilna.\n\nWhile still a boy, he went to Ottoman Palestine with his parents, who settled at Safed, and at their death in 1836, he moved to Jerusalem. In 1848, he was commissioned by the Jewish community of the latter city to travel through the southern countries to collect alms for the poor of Jerusalem. In 1854 he undertook a second tour to collect funds for the construction of the Hurva Synagogue in the Jewish Quarter, which led him in 1859 to Yemen, British India, Egypt, and Australia.\n\nThe result of this journey was his momentous ethnographic work, \"`Even Sapir\", a travel diary in which he gave the history, and a vivid though uncritical description of the condition of the Jews in the above-mentioned countries. Saphir published also \"Iggeret Teman\" (Wilna, 1868, consciously titled after Rambam's letter of centuries earlier), a work on the appearance in Yemen of the pseudo-Messiah Judah ben Shalom, and which was largely responsible for ending Judah ben Shalom's career. Saphir died in Jerusalem in 1886.\n\nSaphir was the first Jewish researcher to recognize the significance of the Cairo geniza, as well as the first to publicize the existence of the Midrash ha-Gadol, both later studied with great panache by Solomon Schechter.\n\nSapir also did a lot of research and writings on Yanover, Israeli and Greek etrogs. He dedicated a collection of poetry to Sir Moses and Lady Montefiore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54609028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54609028", "title": "Katharine Peabody Loring", "text": "Katharine Peabody Loring\n\nKatharine Peabody Loring (May 21, 1849 – August 16, 1943) was an American educator. She was head of the history department at the Society to Encourage Studies at Home, the first correspondence school in the United States, where she developed a lifelong companionship with well-known diarist Alice James. She was also a trustee of the Beverly Public Library in Beverly, Massachusetts, and president of the Beverly Historical Society from 1918 to 1941.\n\nKatharine Peabody Loring was born in Beverly, Massachusetts, on May 21, 1849, to Caleb William Loring, president of the Plymouth Cordage Company, and Elizabeth Peabody. Her name was occasionally misspelled as Katherine in many letters. The Loring family were descendants of Thomas Loring, who came to Hingham, MA, from Devonshire, England, and they were influential in Massachusetts. Her grandfather Charles Greeley Loring was a landowner in Prides Crossing, Beverly, Massachusetts, which was passed on to Loring's father, Caleb, who built a new house in 1852. The family often moved between the Prides Crossing home, Burnside, and the family house in Boston until 1872, when they all moved permanently to Beverly.\n\nIn the spring of 1888, while travelling to Florida and South Carolina with her father and sister, Loring met Annie Adams Fields and Sarah Orne Jewett, with whom she was a lifelong friend.\n\nDespite lacking formal education, Loring was an avid reader and travelled widely, unusual for women at the time. Both her brothers, William Caleb Loring, a justice of Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, and Augustus Peabody Loring, a Republican politician and member of the Constitutional Convention of 1917, often consulted with her.\n\nBecause of her interest in politics and foreign affairs, Loring helped Anna Ticknor found the Society to Encourage Studies at Home in 1873 to contribute to women's education. She became head of the history department, the largest of the society's departments, a position she held for 20 years. Her sister, Louisa Putnam Loring, also helped out at the school. Louisa suffered from tuberculosis and often had to be taken care of by Loring. Loring and her sister were involved in the American Red Cross locally together. Louisa was also a good friend of John Singer Sargent who took a watercolor of Louisa and Katharine Loring, \"Study in Green\", destroyed by fire in 1969.\n\nIn 1871 Katharine Loring, together with Julia Ward Howe, founded the Saturday Morning Club, an organization for women's communal and intellectual growth in Boston. In addition to women's organizations, Loring was also a key stakeholder for the establishment of the Beverly Public Library, of which she was also a trustee; other organizations she was involved with were: the Mayflower Club in Boston, the Royal Red Cross during World War I, the Women's Education Association, the Harvard Annex (a private program for the instruction of women by Harvard faculty), the Beverly Improvement Society and the Massachusetts Library Club. She was also president of the Beverly Historical Society for 23 years, from 1918 to 1941, advocating the acquisition of the John Balch House and the John Hale House, both properties currently in the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nLoring and James first met in December 1873. In 1875, James joined the Society and taught history alongside Loring, who was the head of the department. In the summer of 1879, Alice James wrote to Sara Darwin: \n\nLoring and James journeyed to the White Mountains in New Hampshire in the spring of 1880. During the journey they also visited Lake Winnepesaukee, Newport, Rhode Island, and Cape Cod. On May 21, 1881, Loring and James left for England, arriving on May 30. Initially staying in Richmond at the Star and Garter Hotel, on July 18 they moved temporarily to Kew to the house of Asa Gray, a Harvard botanist, and Jane Loring Gray, Loring's aunt. The Kew arrangements were unsuitable to James' needs, and they relocated to Sevenoaks at the end of July, and London, at 10 Clarges Street, in mid-August. In the beginning of September, with Henry James leaving for Scotland, James and Loring moved to his rooms at 4 Bolton Street. At the end of the month, they were back to the United States. Loring and James moved to England in 1884. James died on March 6, 1892.\n\nAccording to Leon Edel, Henry James loosely based his characters Olive Chancellor and Verena Tarrant in \"The Bostonians\" upon Loring and his sister.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, when the nouveau riche arrived to Beverly from New York, they started to buy the old-Bostonian family mansions. Henry Clay Frick proposed to Katharine Loring to buy their Prides Crossing property, to which Loring replied, \"Goodness! what on earth would I do with a million dollars?\"\n\nThe Loring sisters participated in humanitarian activities throughout World War I. They also did relief work after the Great Salem fire of 1914 and were active in combatting tuberculosis: Louise Loring was the founder and president of the Aiken, South Carolina Sanitarium, director of the Beverly Hospital, and founder of the Anti-Tuberculosis Society in Beverly. In 1917, Katharine helped compile the Loring family genealogy and in 1932 she wrote \"The Earliest Summer Residents of the North Shore and Their Houses\".\n\nAlways low-sighted, Katharine Loring became completely blind in old age, and taught herself braille. She died 94 years old, on August 16, 1943. She was buried with her sister Louisa, who died earlier in 1924, at Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "6986847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6986847", "title": "Kek", "text": "Kek\n\nKek or KEK may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48402254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48402254", "title": "Kokumin-fuku", "text": "Kokumin-fuku\n\nThe (literally: \"national uniform\") was the European-style men's civil attire introduced in Japan in 1940 during World War II.\n\nIts similarity to a military uniform was one of the reasons for heavy casualties among Japanese civilians when the Soviet army attacked in 1945.\n"}
{"id": "42075963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42075963", "title": "List of macaronic languages", "text": "List of macaronic languages\n\nThe following is a list of macaronic languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52973276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52973276", "title": "Live streaming crime", "text": "Live streaming crime\n\nThe live streaming of crimes is a phenomenon arising in the 2010s in which criminals deliberately commit crimes while live streaming the act on social media. Due to the act being published to social media for others to see, it is often impossible to protect the privacy of the victims of these crimes.\n\nIn April 2016, Marina Lonina (18) and Raymond Gates (29) were arrested in Ohio on charges that Gates raped an underage friend of Marina's while Lonina live-streamed the crime on Periscope. The prosecutor pointed out that Lonina, who was taken advantage of by a much older man, had gotten \"caught up\" in her excitement over the number of \"likes\" she was getting, and is shown on screen \"laughing and giggling.\" Joss Wright of the Oxford Internet Institute pointed out that \"[given the] volume of content being created and uploaded every day [ . . . there] is almost no practical way to prevent content like this being uploaded and shared.\"\n\nBy May \"The New York Times\" was including the Ohio Periscope rape as one of a series of recent cases in which crimes were live streamed, including one in which a young woman in Égly, France speaks via Periscope about her distress and suicidal thoughts and is apparently encouraged by viewers to kill herself, which she does by throwing herself under a train, and the case of two teenagers who live stream themselves bragging and laughing as they beat up a drunken man in a bar in Bordeaux, France.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4506804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4506804", "title": "Marshall Islands stick chart", "text": "Marshall Islands stick chart\n\nStick charts were made and used by the Marshallese to navigate the Pacific Ocean by canoe off the coast of the Marshall Islands. The charts represented major ocean swell patterns and the ways the islands disrupted those patterns, typically determined by sensing disruptions in ocean swells by islands during sea navigation. Most stick charts were made from the midribs of coconut fronds that were tied together to form an open framework. Island locations were represented by shells tied to the framework, or by the lashed junction of two or more sticks. The threads represented prevailing ocean surface wave-crests and directions they took as they approached islands and met other similar wave-crests formed by the ebb and flow of breakers. Individual charts varied so much in form and interpretation that the individual navigator who made the chart was the only person who could fully interpret and use it. The use of stick charts ended after World War II when new electronic technologies made navigation more accessible and travel among islands by canoe lessened.\n\nThe stick charts are a significant contribution to the history of cartography because they represent a system of mapping ocean swells, which was never before accomplished. They also use different materials from those common in other parts of the world. They are an indication that ancient maps may have looked very different, and encoded different features from the earth, than the maps we use today.\n\nThe charts, unlike traditional maps, were studied and memorized prior to a voyage and were not consulted during a trip, as compared to traditional navigation techniques where consultation of a map is frequent and points and courses are plotted out both before and during navigation. Marshallese navigators used their senses and memory to guide them on voyages by crouching down or lying prone in the canoe to feel how the canoe was being pitched and rolled by underlying swells.\n\nThe Marshallese recognized four main ocean swells: the \"rilib\", \"kaelib\", \"bungdockerik\" and \"bundockeing\". Navigators focused on effects of islands in blocking swells and generating counterswells to some degree, but they mainly concentrated on refraction of swells as they came in contact with undersea slopes of islands and the bending of swells around islands as they interacted with swells coming from opposite directions. The four types of ocean swells were represented in many stick charts by curved sticks and threads.\n\nThe \"rilib\" swell is the strongest of the four ocean swells and was referred to as the \"backbone\" swell. It is generated by the northeast trade winds and is present during the entire year, even when they do not penetrate as far south as the Marshall Islands. Marshallese considered the \"rilib\" swells to come from the east, even though the angle of the winds as well as the impact of the ocean currents varied the swell direction.\n\nThe \"kaelib\" swell is weaker than the \"rilib\" and could only be detected by knowledgeable persons, but it is also present year round.\n\nThe \"bungdockerik\" is present year round as well and arises in the southwest. This swell is often as strong as the \"rilib\" in the southern islands.\n\nThe \"bundockeing\" swell is the weakest of the four swells, and is mainly felt in the northern islands.\n\nThe stick charts typically fall into three main categories: \"mattang\", \"meddo\" (or \"medo\"), and \"rebbelib\" (or \"rebbelith\").\n\nThe \"mattang\" stick chart was an abstract chart used for instruction and for teaching principles of reading how islands disrupt swells.\n\nThe \"meddo\" chart showed actual islands and their relative or exact positions. \"Meddo\" charts also showed the direction of main deep ocean swells, the way the swells curved around specific islands and intersected with one another, and distance from a canoe at which an island could be detected. The \"meddo\" chart portrayed only a section of one of the two main island chains.\n\n\"Rebbelib\" charts portrayed the same information as a meddo chart, but the difference lies in inclusiveness of the islands. \"Rebbelib\" charts, unlike \"meddo\" charts, included all or most of one or both chains of islands.\n\nStick charts were not made and used by all Marshall Islanders. Only a select few rulers knew the method of making the maps, and the knowledge was only passed on from father to son. So that others could utilize the expertise of the navigator, fifteen or more canoes sailed together in a squadron, accompanied by a leader pilot skilled in use of the charts.\n\nIt was not until 1862 that this unique piloting system was revealed in a public notice prepared by a resident missionary. It was not until the 1890s that it was comprehensively described by a naval officer, Captain Winkler of the Imperial German Navy. Winkler had been the commander of the , stationed in 1896 in the Marshall Islands which, during that period, were under German rule; he subsequently described the system in an 1898 publication. Winkler became so intrigued by the stick charts that he made a major effort to determine navigational principles behind them and convinced the navigators to share how the stick charts were used.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13615460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13615460", "title": "Mia-mia", "text": "Mia-mia\n\nA mia-mia is a temporary shelter made of bark, branches, leaves and grass used by some Indigenous Australians. The word is also used in Australian English to mean \"a temporary shelter\". It comes from the Wada Wurrung language. The term is also used in New Zealand, where it is usually spelt \"mai-mai\" and has the slightly different meaning of a shelter or hide used by a duck-hunter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8692428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8692428", "title": "Mickey Mouse in Vietnam", "text": "Mickey Mouse in Vietnam\n\nShort Subject (commonly known as \"Mickey Mouse in Vietnam\") is a 16mm American underground animated short film. The director was Whitney Lee Savage (father of Adam Savage, of \"MythBusters\" fame); the producer and head designer was Milton Glaser. The short was produced under the auspices of a studio named Max Cats and Whittesey Sledge Studios. It features the Disney character Mickey Mouse being shipped to Vietnam during the war. Moments after arriving, he is shot dead. It was produced independently in 1969 and has a total running time of one minute. It received an award from the International Short Film Festival Oberhausen in 1970. The film was lost for many years until April 22, 2013 when a YouTube user uploaded the video. Five years later, on July 31st 2018, the full short was discovered and uploaded by another YouTube user; this version includes opening and closing titles, both of which were absent in the 2013 upload, as well the audio track, which until then it was assumed that it was completely lost. The music prominently used in the soundtrack is \"The Gonk\" by Herbert Chappell, which was popularized by John Romero's horror movie Dawn of the Dead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44226404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44226404", "title": "Monomachus Crown", "text": "Monomachus Crown\n\nThe Monomachus Crown () is a piece of engraved Byzantine goldwork, decorated with cloisonné enamel, in the Hungarian National Museum in Budapest, Hungary. It consists of seven gold plates depicting Byzantine Emperor Constantine IX Monomachus, his wife Zoe, her sister Theodora, two dancers and two allegorical figures. The piece has puzzling aspects that have long made it the subject of scholarly debate; it was probably made in Constantinople in 1042.\n\nIt was unearthed in 1860 by a farmer in what is now called Ivanka pri Nitre in Slovakia, then Nyitraivánka in Hungary. If it is a crown, it is, with the Holy Crown of Hungary of a few decades later (also in Budapest), one of the only two Byzantine crowns to survive with the kamelaukion of Constance of Aragon.\n\nIn 1860 a farmer near Nyitraivánka discovered the treasure while plowing. The objects passed to a member of the local landowning nobility, who sold them in four transactions to the Hungarian National Museum between 1861 and 1870, the last sale posthumously via a dealer named Markovits. Also sold were the two smaller cloisonee medallions found with the crown plaques, with busts of the apostles Peter and Andrew. These medallions lack holes for nails, unlike the gold plates. In the view of Magda von Bárány-Oberschall and most scholars they almost certainly do not belong to the Monomachus Crown.\n\nThe general assumption was for long that the crown \"seems almost certainly to be a female crown and was presumably a gift to the wife of a Hungarian king\", or to the king himself. In 1045 the Hungarian King Andrew I married Anastasia of Kiev, a daughter of Grand Prince Yaroslav the Wise, whose brother Vsevolod I had been married to Irene (Maria), a daughter of Constantine IX since 1046.\nAccording to the traditional account, Andrew or his queen would have received the crown from Constantine IX at this juncture. He was in need of a new crown, since Henry III had captured the original crown (supposedly donated to king Stephen I by Pope Silvester II in 1000) from King Samuel Aba in 1045 after the Battle of Ménfő and had sent it back to Rome. According to popular legend this was the Holy Crown of Hungary, or some version of it, though it seems unlikely that any elements of the present crown are that old. The fact that Andrew, who had taken power near the end of September 1046, was first able to be crowned in February 1047 could by attributed to the need for a royal embassy to travel from Hungary to Constantinople and back in winter in order to bring the Manomachus crown to Hungary. In 1057 the young King Solomon was also crowned with this crown. Other, very different, possibilities have been suggested and are covered below.\n\nIn 1057 Solomon was besieged by Geza I and escaped with the crown and treasure in the direction of Pozsony in order to seek the protection of his brother-in-law Emperor Henry IV. Soldiers of Geza apprehended him as he was fording the Váh near Ivanka pri Nitre. Solomon had the treasure and the crown buried and barricaded himself behind the walls of Pozsony. When Henry IV launched an expedition in September 1074 to restore Solomon to the Hungarian throne, the army of the Emperor abandoned him and rode along the Valley of the Váh in the direction of Nitra and Šintava. Possibly this was a futile attempt to recover the buried crown near the ford of Ivanka pri Nitre.\n\nThe seven gold plates are 3.5 cm wide and between 10 and 4.5 cm tall. They have asymmetrically cut holes whose size and arrangement suggests that the plates were originally connected by a fabric or leather band. It is possible that remains of golden bands for connecting the plates were found. It is also possible that the seven plates were fastened to a fabric cap. the coarse finish of the decoration, the low purity of the gold plates and the presence of errors in the depiction of the clothing and in the inscriptions are notable.\n\nThe central and largest plate shows Emperor Constantine IX Monomachus, who was Byzantine Emperor from 1042 to 1055. A Greek inscription on the panel reads: Κῶνστάντινος Αυτοκράτο<nowiki><ρ></nowiki> Ρομεον ο Μονομαχο<nowiki><ς></nowiki>, \"Constantine, Emperor of the Romans, the Monomachos\". On the plate to his right is his wife and on the plate to the left, her sister. On the smaller panels to the right and left of the Empresses are two dancing female figures. The smallest plates depict the personifications of two Virtues. The figures have halos on their heads and (except for the Virtues) are surrounded by flowering vines, birds and cypresses.\n\nThe Emperor is depicted standing, with the \"labarum\" in his right hand and in his left the \"akakia\", a fabric pouch which held dust and symbolised the transience of the material world. The Emperor's crown is decorated at its peaks with three balls. The Empresses wear the same crown. They hold a sceptre in their inner hand and point to Emperor Constantine with their outer hand. He wears the ceremonial robes of a Byzantine ruler with ivy decoration and the \"loros\" and \"maniakion\", Byzantine symbols of rulership.\n\nThe \"loros\" is a sash, richly decorated with gemstones, pearls and embroidery which wraps around the shoulders and hips. One end of the \"loros\" falls to his hem, the other is tied around it. The \"maniakion\" is a broad collar decorated with pearls and gemstones. The three members of the imperial family wear red shoes on their feet and stand atop a \"suppedion\". Both women wear the complete regalia of an Empress with the female version of the loros costume, including the shield-like \"thorakion\" hanging diagonally from a belt. Zoe, who was 64 years old in 1042 is depicted in an idealised way as a young woman. Their inscriptions read: \"Θέοδώρα ἡ ἐυσαιβεστατι Αυγουστα,\" \"Theodora the Most Pious Augusta\" and \"Ζώη οι ευσαιβαῖστάτη Αυγουστα,\" \"Zoe the Most Pious Augusta\". The Greek of both is full of errors.\nThe two smaller plates depicting dancing women are identical rather than symmetrical. Their backgrounds are also decorated with foliage, but they lack identifying inscriptions. The dancers wave their veils over their heads and bend their right leg sharply backwards. The idea that they are professional dancers may be contradicted by the haloes on their heads, which indicates that they belong to the sacred realm. However, sacred dancing is rare in Christianity, at least before the Renaissance, and the iconography is most unusual in a context to do with public imperial ceremony and coronation, where the Byzantines placed great stress on the emperor as God's agent on earth.\n\nTwo even smaller panels each depict a female figure with a halo on a plain golden background, with cypresses on either side of them, symbolising the Garden of Eden. According to their inscriptions they represent the Virtues of \"η αλιθηα\" (ἡ ἀλήθεια, Sincerity) and \"η τα<nowiki><π></nowiki>ινοσις\" (ἡ ταπείνωσις, Humility). Sincerity holds a cross in one hand and points to her mouth, while Humility crosses her arms over her chest.\n\nJohn Beckwith saw in the crown a change in style from the enamels of the previous century: \"All the figures are visualized in terms of pattern rather than form; the sense of space and depth so typical of the tenth-century enamels has been jettisoned for intricate detail and superficial charm.\"\n\nIn 1937 Magda von Bárány-Oberschall investigated the enameled gold plates. The size of the crown formed from the plates led her to argue that it had to be a Byzantine consort's crown from the eleventh century.\n\nIn 1994, the Greek Byzantinist Nicolas Oikonomidès expressed the view that the Monomachus Crown might be a nineteenth-century forgery. He was led to this opinion by the plain design, coarse finish and the erroneous and unusual captions, when combined with the circumstances of the discovery and plausible models for a forgery. In all these respects the crown contrasts strongly with the Holy Crown of Hungary. He suspected the forger came from Venice, without however being able to put a name to him.\n\nIn his article, \"The State of Research into the Monomachos Crown and Some Further Thoughts,\" which addresses Nicolas Oikonomidès' theory in detail and largely argues against it, Etele Kiss of the Hungarian National Museum mentioned that the crown could have been made for the emperor, to be presented in a triumphal procession, thus explaining the presence of the dancers, one area of debate. Another problem is that the seven plates form a circle with a diameter of ca. 22 cm, too small even for a woman's head, and the plain plaques, lacking jewelled surrounds, are unlike other Byzantine crowns.\n\nAlready in 1997, Henry Maguire had argued that the plaques were intended to be sewn to a leather or cloth backing, and suggested a belt, for which there are some sources, or diadem. He related the dancers to a \"chorus of graces\" supposed, at least in Byzantine rhetoric, to form a ring around the emperor, dancing and singing his praises. The motifs of birds and plants are metaphors for the virtues of the emperor.\n\nIn 2009 Timothy Dawson elaborated on these arguments, proposing that the crown was actually a ceremonial armband, a grand version of an \"armilla\" given to soldiers as an award. The \"De Ceremoniis\" of Constantine VII Porphyrogennetos written a century earlier describes how the emperor was presented with a crown on returning after a victory, which he then wore on his right arm. Dawson suggested that the most likely recipients in Constantine IX's reign were Stephanos Pergamos, a court eunuch who was a surprising success as a general, for his victory over George Maniakes at the Battle of Ostrobos on 2 February 1043, or the emperor himself on the same occasion. Michael Psellos records that the emperor sat between the two empresses to view the procession, which the placement of the plaques may reflect.\nThe armill is a medieval variation, more often part of coronation regalia, which may also be relevant. \n\nThe triumph of Stephanos Pergamos was approved by the Emperor at the last moment and Dawson argued that rushed production could explain the coarse finish and spelling errors; if it was given to Pergamos, the lower quality and relative plainness of the piece are explicable. The same would apply to the depiction of the emperor, odd on a piece he would wear himself, as is the depiction of a figure representing Humility. If it belonged to the emperor, or came to do so when Pergamos' possessions were later confiscated, then after the celebrations it would have been stored in the Imperial treasure chamber and then later sent to Hungary as a diplomatic gift. Alternatively it may have escaped Byzantium in the wake of the downfall of Pergamos. Another possibility is that it is simply loot from the Crusaders' sack of Constantinople in 1204, or the period of Latin rule thereafter. All these are speculative accounts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "352569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352569", "title": "Mother Svea", "text": "Mother Svea\n\nMother Svea or Mother Swea (Swedish: \"Moder Svea\") is the female personification of Sweden and a patriotic emblem of the Swedish nation.\n\nMother Svea is normally depicted as a powerful female warrior, valkyrie or shieldmaiden, frequently holding a shield and standing beside a lion. Svea is a Swedish female personal name which derives from \"svea\", an old plural genitive form meaning \"of the Swedes\" or the \"Swea\". It appears in \"Svea rike\", a translation of the old Swedish word \"Sverige\", the Swedish name for Sweden. \n\nThe popular image is considered to have been created by Swedish writer, (1649–1725) when first introduced in his poem \"Svea Lycksaligheets Triumph\" (1672).\n\nAs a patriotic symbol, Moder Svea gained widespread popularity in \"Kunga Skald\" (1697), written by Swedish poet (1661–1709) in honor of King Charles XI of Sweden. Eurelius was later ennobled with the name of Dahlstjerna.\n\nMother Svea appeared frequently as a national symbol in 19th-century Swedish literature and culture. She appeared on various Swedish banknotes for over seventy years, such as both the 5-kronor banknote printed between 1890–1952 and the 5-kronor banknote printed between 1954-1963.\n\nSwedish singer Lena Philipsson and composer Torgny Söderberg wrote a song entitled \"Moder Swea\" which was introduced in the 1995 album \"Lena Philipsson\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29391775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29391775", "title": "Museum Ethnographers Group", "text": "Museum Ethnographers Group\n\nThe Museum Ethnographers Group (MEG) is a United Kingdom-based collective for those working with and researching ethnographic collections in museums. It is registered as a charity in England and Wales (no. 1023150) and is recognised in the UK museum sector as a subject specialist network. It is often known to its members by its acronym MEG. Its most obvious functions are the annual conference it organises and the journal it publishes.\n\nMEG was founded in 1975 at a meeting in Liverpool on \"Communicating Anthropology — the role of museums\", when its first Chair was Peter Gathercole.\n\nMEG holds an annual conference, normally hosted by a UK museum. Recent conferences have been at the Museum of English Rural Life, University of Reading (2010), Bristol Museum/University (2009), St John's College, University of Oxford (2008), National Maritime Museum, Greenwich (2007), Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery (2006), Manchester Museum (2005), Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, University of Cambridge (2004), University of Leicester (2003).\n\nThe MEG newsletter for many years functioned as a kind of journal, containing scholarly articles despite its photocopied pages. In 1989, MEG began to publish the \"Journal of Museum Ethnography\" (JME), and has done so every year since. In 2010, MEG reached an agreement with JSTOR to digitise all past issues of JME, as well as the early newsletters.\n\n"}
{"id": "981600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981600", "title": "National epic", "text": "National epic\n\nA national epic is an epic poem or a literary work of epic scope which seeks or is believed to capture and express the essence or spirit of a particular nation; not necessarily a nation state, but at least an ethnic or linguistic group with aspirations to independence or autonomy. National epics frequently recount the origin of a nation, a part of its history, or a crucial event in the development of national identity such as other national symbols. In a broader sense, a national epic may simply be an epic in the national language which the people or government of that nation are particularly proud of. It is distinct from a pan-national epic which is taken as representative of a larger cultural or linguistic group than a nation or a nation-state.\n\nIn medieval times Homer's \"Iliad\" was taken to be based on historical facts, and the Trojan War came to be considered as seminal in the genealogies of European monarchies. Virgil's \"Aeneid\" was taken to be the Roman equivalent of the \"Iliad\", starting from the Fall of Troy and leading up to the birth of the young Roman nation. According to the then prevailing conception of history, empires were born and died in organic succession and correspondences existed between the past and the present. Geoffrey of Monmouth's 12th century classically inspired \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", for example, fulfilled this function for the British or Welsh. Just as kings longed to emulate great leaders of the past, Alexander or Caesar, it was a temptation for poets to become a new Homer or Virgil. In 16th century Portugal, Luis de Camões celebrated Portugal as a naval power in his \"Os Lusíadas\" while Pierre de Ronsard set out to write \"La Franciade\", an epic meant to be the Gallic equivalent of Virgil's poem that also traced back France's ancestry to Trojan princes.\n\nThe emergence of a national \"ethos\", however, preceded the coining of the phrase \"national epic\", which seems to originate with Romantic nationalism. Where no obvious national epic existed, the \"Romantic spirit\" was motivated to fill it. An early example of poetry that was invented to fill a perceived gap in \"national\" myth is Ossian, the narrator and supposed author of a cycle of poems by James Macpherson, which Macpherson claimed to have translated from ancient sources in Scottish Gaelic. However, many national epics (including Macpherson's \"Ossian\") antedate 19th-century romanticism.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the phrase no longer necessarily applies to an epic poem, and occurs to describe a literary work that readers and critics agree is emblematical of the literature of a nation, without necessarily including details from that nation's historical background. In this context the phrase has definitely positive connotations, as for example in James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" where it is suggested \"Don Quixote\" is Spain's national epic while Ireland's remains as yet unwritten: They remind one of Don Quixote and Sancho Panza. Our national epic has yet to be written, Dr Sigerson says. Moore is the man for it. A knight of the rueful countenance here in Dublin.<br>\n\nPoems that have been described as national epics include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome prose works, while not strictly epic poetry, have an important place in the national consciousness of their nations. These include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38821033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38821033", "title": "Noken", "text": "Noken\n\nNoken is a multifunctional knotted or woven bag, native to the Papua. Its distinctive usage, which involves being hung from the head, is traditionally used to carry various goods, and also children. In 2012, \"noken\" was listed in the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists as a cultural heritage of Indonesia. Women carrying noken are still a common sight in Wamena.\n\nIn several areas of Papua, \"noken\" – instead of the usual ballot box – is preferred as a way to place ballots, where it is recognized as a ballot tool in the Papua regional leadership elections.\n"}
{"id": "6995018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6995018", "title": "Palla (garment)", "text": "Palla (garment)\n\nPalla is a traditional ancient Roman mantle worn by women, fastened by brooches. It was similar to the pallium that a man would wear. The shape was rectangular instead of semi-circular as with the traditional toga.\n\n"}
{"id": "6930469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6930469", "title": "Public holidays in Cameroon", "text": "Public holidays in Cameroon\n\n1 October 1961 is the Independence Day of the British Southern Cameroons from UK but it's not celebrated.\nThe following holidays \"are\" public holidays but the date on which each occurs varies, according to its corresponding calendar, and thus has no set date. In order in which they occur:\n"}
{"id": "2704698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2704698", "title": "Republic of Letters", "text": "Republic of Letters\n\nThe Republic of Letters (\"Respublica literaria\") is the long-distance intellectual community in the late 17th and 18th centuries in Europe and the Americas. It fostered communication among the intellectuals of the Age of Enlightenment, or \"philosophes\" as they were called in France. The Republic of Letters emerged in the 17th century as a self-proclaimed community of scholars and literary figures that stretched across national boundaries but respected differences in language and culture. These communities that transcended national boundaries formed the basis of a metaphysical Republic. Because of societal constraints on women, the Republic of Letters consisted mostly of men. As such, many scholars use \"Republic of Letters\" and \"men of letters\" interchangeably.\n\nThe circulation of handwritten letters was necessary for its function because it enabled intellectuals to correspond with each other from great distances. All citizens of the 17th-century Republic of Letters corresponded by letter, exchanged published papers and pamphlets, and considered it their duty to bring others into the Republic through the expansion of correspondence.\n\nThe first known occurrence of the term in its Latin form (\"Respublica literaria\") is in a letter by Francesco Barbaro to Poggio Bracciolini dated July 6, 1417; it was used increasingly in the 16th and 17th, so that by the end of that century it featured in the titles of several important journals. Currently, the consensus is that Pierre Bayle first translated the term in his journal \"Nouvelles de la République des Lettres\" in 1684. But there are some historians who disagree and some have gone so far as to say that its origin dates back to Plato's \"Republic\". Part of the difficulty in determining its origin is that, unlike an academy or literary society, it existed only in the minds of its members.\n\nHistorians are presently debating the importance of the Republic of Letters in influencing the Enlightenment. Today, most Anglo-American historians, whatever their point of entry to debate, occupy a common ground: the Republic of Letters and the Enlightenment were distinct.\n\nThe mid-17th century had seen the community of the curious take its first tentative steps towards institutionalization with the establishment of permanent literary and scientific academies in Paris and London under royal patronage. The foundation of the Royal Society in 1662, with its open door, was particularly important in legitimizing the Republic of Letters in England and providing a European center of gravity for the movement. The Royal Society primarily promoted science, which was undertaken by gentlemen of means acting independently. The Royal Society created its charters and established a system of governance. Its most famous leader was Isaac Newton, president from 1703 until his death in 1727. Other notable members include diarist John Evelyn, writer Thomas Sprat, and scientist Robert Hooke, the Society's first curator of experiments. It played an international role to adjudicate scientific findings, and published the journal \"Philosophical Transactions\" edited by Henry Oldenburg.\n\nThe seventeenth century saw new academies open in France, Germany, and elsewhere. By 1700 they were found in most major cultural centers. They helped local members contact like-minded intellectuals elsewhere in the Republic of Letters and thus become cosmopolitans. In Paris specialization was taken to new heights where, in addition to existing Académie Française and the Académie des Sciences founded in 1635 and 1666, there were three further royal foundations in the 18th century: the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres (1701), the Académie de Chirurgie (1730), and the Société de Médecine (1776).\n\nBy the second half of the 18th century universities abandoned Aristotelian natural philosophy and Galenist medicine in favor of the mechanist and vitalist ideas of the moderns, so they placed a greater emphasis on learning by seeing. Everywhere in teaching science and medicine the monotonous diet of dictated lectures was supplemented and sometimes totally replaced by practical courses in experimental physics, astronomy, chemistry, anatomy, botany, \"materia medica\", even geology and natural history. The new emphasis on practical learning meant that the university now offered a much more welcoming environment to the Republic of Letters. Although most professors and teachers were still uninterested in membership, the ideological and pedagogical changes across the century created the conditions in which the pursuit of curiosity in the university world became much more possible and even attractive.\n\nInstitutions – academies, journals, literary societies – took over some of the roles, duties, and activities of scholarship. Communication, for example, did not have to be from individual to individual; it could take place between academies, and pass thence to scholars, or be encapsulated in literary journals, to be diffused among the whole scholarly community. Literary agents, working for libraries but sharing the values of the learned community, demonstrate this professionalization on the most fundamental level.\n\nThe salonnière played a prominent role in establishing order within the Republic of Letters during the Enlightenment period. Beginning in the 17th century, salons served to bring together nobles and intellectuals in an atmosphere of civility and fair play in order to educate one, refine the other, and create a common medium of cultural exchange based on the shared notion of \"honnêteté\" that combined learning, good manners, and conversational skill. But government was needed because, while the Republic of Letters was structured in theory by egalitarian principles of reciprocity and exchange, the reality of intellectual practice fell far short of this ideal. French men of letters in particular found themselves increasingly engaged in divisive quarrels rather than in constructive debate. With the establishment of Paris as the capital of the Republic, French men of letters had enriched traditional epistolary relations with direct verbal ones. That is, finding themselves drawn together by the capital, they began to meet together and make their collaboration on the project of Enlightenment direct, and thus suffered the consequences of giving up the mediation that the written word provided. Without this traditional kind of formal mediation, the \"philosophes\" needed a new kind of governance.\n\nThe Parisian salon gave the Republic of Letters source of political order in the person of the salonnière, for she gave order both to social relations among salon guests and to the discourse in which they engaged. When Marie-Thérèse Geoffrin launched her weekly dinners in 1749, the Enlightenment Republic of Letters found its ‘center of unity’. As a regular and regulated formal gathering hosted by a woman in her own home, the Parisian salon could serve as an independent forum and locus of intellectual activity for a well-governed Republic of Letters. From 1765 until 1776, men of letters and those who wanted to be counted among the citizens of their Republic could meet in Parisian salons any day of the week.\nThe salons were literary institutions that relied on a new ethic of polite sociability based on hospitality, distinction, and the entertainment of the elite. The salons were open to intellectuals, who used them to find protectors and sponsors and to fashion themselves as 'hommes du monde.' In the salons after 1770 there emerged a radical critique of worldliness, inspired by Rousseau. These radicals denounced the mechanisms of polite sociability and called for a new model of the independent writer, who would address the public and the nation.\n\nLilti (2005) argues that the salon never provided an egalitarian space. Rather, salons only provided a form of sociability where politeness and congeniality of aristocrats maintained a fiction of equality that never dissolved differences in status but nonetheless made them bearable. The \"grands\" (high-ranking nobles) only played the game of mutual esteem as long as they kept the upper hand. Men of letters were well aware of this rule, never confusing the politeness of the salons with equality in conversation.\n\nAs well, the advantages that writers gained from visiting salons extended to the protection by their hosts. The salons provided crucial support in the career of an author, not because they were literary institutions, but, on the contrary, because they allowed men of letters to emerge from the circles of the Republic of Letters and access the resources of aristocratic and royal patronage. As a result, instead of an opposition between the court and the Republic of Letters they are instead a collection of spaces and resources focused around the court as a center of power and distribution of favors.\n\nAntoine Lilti paints a picture of a reciprocal relationship between men of letters and salonnières. Salonnières attracted the finest men of letters through gift-giving or regular allowance in order to boost the reputation of the salons. For salon hosts and hostesses, they were not merely sources of information, but also important points of relay in the circulation of praise. From one salon to the next, in conversation as in correspondence, men of letters gladly praised the social groups who welcomed them. In turn, the salon hostess had to be able to prove their capacity to mobilize as many high society contacts as possible in favor of their protégés. Consequently, correspondences openly display network of influence, and the woman of high society employed all their know-how to help benefit those men of letters whose elections to the academies they supported.\n\nMixed intellectual company was also found in 18th-century Philadelphia for those who sought it, sometimes in social gatherings modeled upon the salons of London and Paris. Where mixed social intercourse of a literary nature was concerned, Americans were virtuously and patriotically inclined to be wary of European examples. Conscious of the relative purity as well as the provinciality of their society, Americans did not seek to replicate what they perceived as the decadent societies of London and Paris. Nevertheless, to facilitate social intercourse of a literary nature where women were involved, Americans, led by certain strong-minded women, did draw upon and domesticate two models of such mixed intellectual company, one French and the other English.\n\nIn America intellectually motivated women consciously emulated these two European models of sociability: the ever fashionable French model of mistress of the salon, drawing upon feminine social adroitness in arranging meetings of minds, chiefly male, and the ever unfashionable English bluestocking model of no-nonsense, cultivated discourse, chiefly among women. Outside literary salons and clubs, society at large was mixed by nature, as were the families that constituted it. And whether or not men of letters chose to include \"femme savants\" in the Literary Republic, literary women shared such sociability as society at large afforded. This varied widely in America from one locality to one another.\n\nVery soon after the introduction of printing with moveable type, the Republic of Letters became closely identified with the press. The printing press also played a prominent role in the establishment of a community of scientists who could easily communicate their discoveries through the establishment of widely disseminated journals. Because of the printing press, authorship became more meaningful and profitable. The main reason was that it provided correspondence between the author and the person who owned the printing presses – the publisher. This correspondence allowed the author to have a greater control of its production and distribution. The channels opened up by the great publishing houses provided a gradual movement towards an international \"Respublica\" with set channels of communication and particular points of focus (e.g. university towns and publishing houses), or simply the home of a respected figure.\n\nMany learned periodicals began as imitations or rivals of publications originating after the mid-17th century. It is generally acknowledged that the \"Journal des Sçavans\", a French journal started in 1665, is the father of all journals. The first of the Dutch-based ones, and also the first of the genuinely \"critical\" journals, the \"Nouvelles de la République des Lettres\", edited by Pierre Bayle, appeared in March 1684, followed in 1686 by the \"Bibliothèque Universelle\" of Jean Le Clerc. While French and Latin predominated, there was also soon a demand for book news and reviews in German and Dutch.\nJournals did represent a new and different way of conducting business in the Republic of Letters. Like the printed book before them, journals intensified and multiplied the circulation of information; and since they consisted largely of book reviews (known as \"extraits\"), they enormously increased scholars’ potential knowledge about what was going on in their own community. In the beginning, the audience and authorship of literary journals was largely the Republic of Letters itself.\n\nThe evolution of a true periodical press was slow, but once this principle was established it was only a matter of time before printers would perceive that the public was also interested in the world of scholarship. As readership increased, it was clear that the tone, language, and content of journals implied that journalists defined their audience under a new form of Republic of Letters: either those who took an active role by writing and instructing others, or those who contented themselves with reading books and following the debates in the journals. Formerly the domain of \"les savants\" and \"érudits,\" the Republic of Letters now became the province of \"les curieux.\"\n\nThe ideals of the Republic of Letters as a community thus come out in journals, both in their own statements of purpose in prefaces and introductions, and in their actual contents. Just as one goal of a \"commerce de lettres\" was to inform two people, the goal of the journal was to inform many. In acting out this public role in the Republic of Letters, journals became a personification of the group as a whole. Attitudes of both journalists and readers suggest that a literary journal was regarded as in some sense an ideal member of the Republic of Letters.\n\nIt is also important to note that there has been some disagreements with Goldgar's sense of the importance of journals in the Republic of Letters. Françoise Waquet has argued that literary journals did not in fact replace the \"commerce de lettres\". Journals depended on letters for their own information. Moreover, the periodical press often failed to satisfy the scholarly desire for news. Its publication and sale were often too slow to satisfy readers, and its discussions of books and news could seem incomplete for such reasons, as specialization, religious bias, or simple distortion. Letters clearly remained desirable and useful. Yet it is certain that, from the time journals became a central feature of the Republic of Letters, many readers gained their news primarily from that source.\n\nHistorians have long understood that the English and French periodicals had a strong influence on colonial American letters. During this period, the variety of institutions used for transmitting ideas did not exist in America. Aside from the largely arbitrarily assembled booksellers' stocks, an occasional overseas correspondence, and the publisher's or printer's advertisements to be found in the back of the books, the only way colonial intellectuals could keep alive their philosophical interests was through the reporting in periodical literature.\n\nExamples include Benjamin Franklin, who cultivated his perspicuous style in imitation of the \"Spectator\". Jonathan Edwards's manuscript \"Catalogue of reading\" reveals that he not only knew the \"Spectator\" before 1720 but was so enamored of Richard Steele that he tried to get his hands on everything: the \"Guardian\", the \"Englishman\", the \"Reader\", and more. At Harvard College in 1721 a weekly periodical entitled the \"Telltale\" was inaugurated by a group of students, including Ebenezer Pemberton, Charles Chauncy, and Isaac Greenwood. As the \"Telltale's\" subtitle – \"Criticisms on the Conversation and Behaviours of Scholars to promote right reasoning and good manners\" – made explicit, it was a direct imitation of the English genteel periodical.\nOne of the best examples of a transatlantic Republic of Letters began about 1690, when John Dunton launched a series of journalistic ventures, nearly all of them under the aegis of a forward-looking \"club\" called the Athenian Society, an English predecessor of Harvard's Telltale Club, Franklin's Junto, and other such associations dedicated to mental and moral improvement. The Athenian society took it as one of their particular goals to spread learning in the vernacular. One of the plans of this group in 1691 was the publication of translations from the \"Acta Eruditorum\", the \"Journal des Sçavans\", the \"Bibliothèque Universelle\", and the \"Giornale de Letterati\". The outcome was the formation of \"The Young Students Library, containing Extracts and Abridgements of the Most Valuable Books Printed in England and in the Foreign Journals from the year Sixty-Five to the Present Time\". The \"Young Students Library\", like the \"Universal Historical Bibliothèque\" of 1687, was made up almost entirely of translated pieces, in this case mostly from the \"Journal des Sçavans\", Bayle's \"Nouvelles de la République des Lettres, and Le Clerc's and La Crose's \"Bibliothèque Universelle et Historique\".\n\nThe \"Young Students Library\" of 1692 was exemplary of the kind of material to be found in later forms of the learned periodical in England. Expressly lamenting the absence in England of periodicals, the \"Young Students Library\" was designed to fill the need in America for periodical literature.\n\nFor Americans it served, according to David D Hall, as:\nAnglo-American historians have turned their attention to the Enlightenment's dissemination and promotion, inquiring into the mechanisms by which it played a role in the collapse of the Ancien Régime. This attention to the mechanisms of dissemination and promotion has led historians to debate the importance of the Republic of Letters during the Enlightenment.\n\nIn 1994, Dena Goodman published \"\". In this feminist work, she described the Enlightenment not as a set of ideas but as a rhetoric. For her, it was essentially an open-minded discourse of discovery where like-minded intellectuals adopted a traditionally feminine mode of discussion to explore the great problems of life. Enlightenment discourse was purposeful gossip and indissolubly connected with the Parisian salons. Goodman questions as well the degree to which the public sphere is necessarily masculine. Under the influence of Habermas's \"Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\", she proposes an alternative division that defines women as belonging to an authentic public sphere of government critique through salons, Masonic lodges, academies, and the press.\n\nLike the French monarchy, the Republic of Letters is a modern phenomenon with an ancient history. References to the \"Respublica literaria\" have been found as early as 1417. Nevertheless, the concept of the Republic of Letters emerged only in the early 17th century, and became widespread only at the end of that century. Paul Dibon, cited by Goodman, defines the Republic of Letters as it was conceived in the 17th-century as:\nAccording to Goodman, by the 18th century, the Republic of Letters was composed of French men and women, philosophes and salonnières, who worked together to attain the ends of philosophy, broadly conceived as the project of Enlightenment. In her opinion, the central discursive practices of the Enlightenment Republic of Letters were polite conversation and letter writing, and its defining social institution was the Parisian salon.\n\nGoodman argues that, by the middle of the 18th-century, French men of letters used discourses of sociability to argue that France was the most civilized nation in the world because it was the most sociable and most polite. French men of letters saw themselves as the leaders of a project of Enlightenment that was both cultural and moral, if not political. By representing French culture as the leading edge of civilization, they identified the cause of humanity with their own national causes and saw themselves as at the same time French patriots and upstanding citizens of a cosmopolitan Republic of Letters. Voltaire, both a zealous champion of French culture and the leading citizen of the Enlightenment Republic of Letters, contributed more than anyone else to this self-representation of national identity.\n\nOver the course of the 17th and 18th centuries the growth of the Republic of Letters paralleled that of the French monarchy. This history of the Republic of Letters is interwoven with that of the monarchy from its consolidation after the Wars of Religion until its downfall in the French Revolution. Dena Goodman finds this to be very important because this provides a history of the Republic of Letters, from its founding in the 17th century as an apolitical community of discourse through its transformation in the 18th century into a very political community whose project of Enlightenment challenged the monarchy from a new public space carved out of French society.\n\nIn 2003, Susan Dalton published \"\". Dalton supports Dena Goodman's view that women played a role in the Enlightenment. On the other hand, Dalton does not agree with Goodman for using Habermas's idea of the public and private spheres. While the public sphere has the capacity to include women, it is not the best tool for mapping the full range of political and intellectual action open to them because it provides an overly restrictive definition of what is properly political and/or historically relevant. In fact, this is the wider problem with relying on any public/private division: it shapes and even limits the vision of women's political and intellectual action by defining it in relation to specific venues and institutions because these are identified as the arenas of power and, ultimately, historical agency.\n\nTo study in a wider form of Republic of Letters, Dalton analyzed the correspondence of salon women to display the link between intellectual institutions and the various types of sociability. In particular, she examined the correspondence of two French and two Venetian salon women at the end of the 18th century in order to understand their role in the Republic of Letters. These women were Julie de Lespinasse (1732–76), Marie-Jeanne Roland (1754–93), Giustina Renier Michiel (1755–1832) and Elisabetta Mosconi Contarini (1751–1807).\n\nTo engage in literary commerce, to send news, books, literature – even compliments and criticism – was to show one's commitment to the community as a whole. Given the importance of these exchanges for ensuring the perpetuation of the republic of letters as a community, Lespinasse, Roland, Mosconi, and Renier Michiel worked to reinforce cohesion through friendship and loyalty. Thus sending a letter or procuring a book was a sign of personal devotion that engendered a social debt to be fulfilled. In turn, one's ability to fulfill these charges marked one as a good friend and therefore a virtuous member of the Republic of Letters. The fact that both qualities had to overlap explains the practice of recommending one's friends and acquaintances for literary prizes and governmental posts. If women were able to make recommendations that carried weight for both political posts and literary prizes, it was because they were thought capable of evaluating and expressing the values integral to relation in the Republic of Letters. They could judge and produce not only grace and beauty but also friendship and virtue.\n\nBy tracing the nature and extent of their participation in intellectual and political debates, it was possible to show the degree to which women's actions diverged not only from conservative gender models but also from their own formulations concerning women's proper social role. Although they often insisted on their own sensibility and lack of critical capacities, the salon women Susan Dalton studied also defined themselves as belonging to the Republic of Letters not only with reference to the very different conception of gender offered by the \"gens de lettres\" but also with reference to a wider, gender-neutral vocabulary of personal qualities revered by them even when it contradicted their discourse on gender.\n\nIn 1995, Anne Goldgar published \"\". Goldgar sees the Republic as a cluster of learned scholars and scientists, whose correspondence and published works (usually in Latin) reveal a community of conservative scholars with preference for substance over style. Lacking any common institutional attachments and finding it difficult to attract aristocratic and courtly patrons, the community created the Republic of Letters to boost morale as much as for any intellectual reason. Goldgar argues that, in the transitional period between the 17th century and the Enlightenment, the most important common concern by members of the Republic was their own conduct. In the conception of its own members, ideology, religion, political philosophy, scientific strategy, or any other intellectual or philosophical framework were not as important as their own identity as a community\n\nThe philosophes, by contrast, represented a new generation of men of letters who were consciously controversial and politically subversive. Moreover, they were urbane popularizers, whose style and lifestyle was much more in tune with the sensibilities of the aristocratic elite who set the tone for the reading public.\n\nCertain broad features can, however, be painted into the picture of the Republic of Letters. The existence of communal standards highlights the first of these: that the scholarly world considered itself to be in some ways separate from the rest of society. Contemporary scholars of the 17th and 18th-centuries felt that, at least in the academic realm, they were not subject to the norms and values of the wider society. Unlike their non-scholarly counterparts, they thought they lived in an essentially egalitarian community, in which all members had equal rights to criticize the work and conduct of others. Moreover, the Republic of Letters in theory ignored distinctions of nationality and religion.\n\nThe conventions of the Republic of Letters were a great convenience to scholars throughout Europe. Scholars in correspondence with each other felt free to ask for assistance in research whenever it was necessary; indeed one of the functions of the \"commerce de lettres\", the purely literary correspondence, was to promote opportunities for research. Even cities which could in no sense be called isolated, such as Paris or Amsterdam, always lacked certain amenities of scholarship. Many books published in the Netherlands, for example, only found their way to Dutch presses because they were prohibited in France. Manuscripts necessary for research were often in libraries inaccessible to people in other towns. Literary journals usually could not provide enough information with sufficient rapidity to satisfy the needs of most scholars.\n\nThe role of intermediary was also prominent in the Republic of Letters. Scholars wrote on behalf of others asking for hospitality, books, and help in research. Often the involvement of an intermediary was a matter of simple convenience. However, the use of an intermediary frequently had underlying sociological meaning. A request ending in failure can be both embarrassing and demeaning; refusal to perform a service could mean that the solicited part prefers not to enter into a reciprocal relationship with someone of lower status.\n\nBut an intermediary did not merely bear the brunt of refusal; he also contributed to a transaction's success. The ability to use an intermediary indicated that a scholar had at least one contact in the Republic of Letters. This gave proof of his membership in the group, and the intermediary would usually attest to his positive scholarly qualities. In addition, the intermediary usually had wider contacts and consequently higher status within the community.\n\nAlthough status differences did exist in the Republic of Letters, such differences in fact strengthened rather than weakened the community. The ethos of service, combined with the advantage of gaining status by obliging others, meant that someone of higher ranking was moved to assist his subordinates. In doing so, he reinforced ties between himself and other scholars. By arranging help for a scholar, he forged or hardened links with the person served, while at the same time reinforcing his reciprocal ties with the final provider of the service.\n\nGoodman's approach has found favor with the medical historian Thomas Broman. Building on Habermas, Broman argues that the Enlightenment was a movement of intellectual transparency and laicization. While members of the Republic of Letters lived hermetically sealed from the outside world, talking only to one another, their enlightened successors deliberately placed their ideas before the bar of a nascent public opinion. Broman essentially sees The Republic of Letters as located in the cabinet and the Enlightenment in the market-place.\nFor most Anglo-American historians, the classic Enlightenment is a forward-looking movement. To these historians, the Republic of Letters are an outdated construction of the 17th century. But in John Pocock's eyes there are two Enlightenments: one, associated with Edward Gibbon, the author of the \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\", which is erudite, serious, and scholarly grounded in the Republic of Letters; the other, the trivial Enlightenment of the Parisian \"philosophes\". The first is a product of a peculiarly English/British and Protestant liberal political and theological tradition and points to the future; the second lacks the anchor of socio-historical analysis and leads unintentionally to Revolutionary mayhem.\n\nIn the 1930s, the French historian Paul Hazard homed in on the age of Pierre Bayle and argued that the cumulative effect of the many different and mordant strands of intellectual curiosity in the last quarter of the 17th century created a European cultural crisis, whose negative harvest the \"philosophes\" were to reap. The Republic of Letters and the Enlightenment were insolubly interconnected. Both were movements of criticism.\n\nAccording to Peter Gay, building on Ernst Cassirer's much earlier study of the intellectual progenitors of Kant, the Enlightenment was the creation of a small group of thinkers, his family of \"philosophes\" or ‘party of humanity’, whose coherent anti-Christian, ameliorist, and individualistic programme of reform developed from very specific cultural roots. The Enlightenment was not the offspring of the Republic of Letters, let alone the culmination of three centuries of anti-Augustinian critique, but rather the result of the singular marriage of Lucretius and Newton. When a handful of French freethinkers in the second quarter of the 18th century encountered the methodology and achievements of Newtonian science, experimental philosophy and unbelief were mixed together in an explosive cocktail, which gave its imbibers the means to develop a new science of man. Since Gay's work was published, his interpretation of the Enlightenment has become an orthodoxy in the Anglo-Saxon world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8954400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8954400", "title": "Rural health", "text": "Rural health\n\nIn medicine, rural health or rural medicine is the interdisciplinary study of health and health care delivery in rural environments. The concept of rural health incorporates many fields, including geography, midwifery, nursing, sociology, economics, and telehealth or telemedicine.\n\nResearch shows that the healthcare needs of individuals living in rural areas are different from those in urban areas, and rural areas often suffer from a lack of access to healthcare. These differences are the result of geographic, demographic, socioeconomic, workplace, and personal health factors. For example, many rural communities have a large proportion of elderly people and children. With relatively few people of working age (20–50 years of age), such communities have a high dependency ratio. People living in rural areas also tend to have poorer socioeconomic conditions, less education, higher rates of tobacco and alcohol use, and higher mortality rates when compared to their urban counterparts. There are also high rates of poverty amongst rural dwellers in many parts of the world, and poverty is one of the biggest social determinants of health.\n\nMany countries have made it a priority to increase funding for research on rural health. These efforts have led to the development of several research institutes with rural health mandates, including the Centre for Rural and Northern Health Research in Canada, Countryside Agency in the United Kingdom, the Institute of Rural Health in Australia, and the New Zealand Institute of Rural Health. These research efforts are designed to help identify the healthcare needs of rural communities and provide policy solutions to ensure those needs are met. The concept of incorporating the needs of rural communities into government services is sometimes referred to as \"rural proofing\".\n\nThere is no international standard for defining rural areas, and standards may vary even within an individual country. The most commonly used methodologies fall into two main camps: population-based factors and geography-based factors. The methodologies used for identifying rural areas include population size, population density, distance from an urban centre, settlement patterns, labor market influences, and postal codes.\n\nThe reported number of individuals living in rural areas can vary greatly depending on which set of standards is applied. Canada’s rural population can be identified as anywhere from 22% to 38%, of the population. In the United States the variation is greater; between 17% and 63% of the population may be identified as living in rural areas. The lack of consensus makes it difficult to identify the number of individuals who are in need of rural healthcare services.\n\nStudies show that in many parts of the world life expectancy rates are higher in urban areas than in rural areas. There is some evidence to suggest that the gap may be widening in these countries as economic conditions and health education has improved in urban areas.\n\nIn Canada, life expectancy in men ranged from 74 years in the most remote areas to 76.8 years in its urban centers. For women, life expectancy was also lowest in rural areas, with an average of 81.3 years. Those living in rural areas adjacent to urban centers also experience higher life expectancies (with men at 77.4 years and women at 81.5 years). Australian life expectancies ranged from 78 years in major cities to 72 years in remote locations. In China, the life expectancy of females is 73.59 years in urban areas and 72.46 in rural areas. Male life expectancy varies from 69.73 years in urban areas and 58.99 in rural areas.\n\nHowever, there are countries such as the United Kingdom, where life expectancy in rural areas exceeds that of urban areas. Life expectancy there is two years greater for men and one-and-a-half years greater for women in rural areas when compared to urban areas. This may be due, in part, to smaller economic disparities in rural areas as well as an increasing number of well-educated and wealthy individuals moving to rural areas in retirement. This is a significant departure to the rural poverty found in many countries.\n\nPeople in rural areas generally have less access to healthcare than their urban counterparts. Fewer medical practitioners, mental health programs and healthcare facilities in these areas often mean less preventative care and longer response times in emergencies. The lack of healthcare workers has resulted in unconventional ways of delivering healthcare to rural dwellers, including medical consultations by phone or internet as well as mobile preventative care and treatment programs. There have been increased efforts to attract health professionals to isolated locations, such as increasing the number of medical students from rural areas and improving financial incentives for rural practices.\n\nCanadians living in rural areas and small towns have access to half as many physicians (1 per 1000 residents) as their urban counterparts. On average, these individuals have to travel five times the distance (an average of )to access these services. They also have fewer specialized health care services such as dentists, dental surgeons, and social workers. One study found ambulance service was available in only 40% of the selected sites, blood and Urine testing services in one third of the sites, and only one of the 19 sites had neonatal services. Nursing service had reduced from 26.3% in 1998 to 21.1% in 2005.\n\nThe gap in services is due, in part, to the focus of funding on higher-population areas. In China only 10% of the rural population had medical insurance in 1993, compared with 50% of urban residents. In the 1990s, only 20% of the government's public health spending went to the rural health system, which served 70% of the Chinese population. In the United States, between 1990 and 2000, 228 rural hospitals closed, leading to a reduction of 8,228 hospital beds. In 2009, patients living in rural areas of the United States were transferred to other facilities for care at a rate three times higher than that of patients in large central metropolitan areas.\n\nRural areas, especially in Africa, have greater difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified and skilled professionals in the healthcare field. In Sub-Saharan Africa, urban and more prosperous areas have disproportionately more of the countries’ skilled health care workers. For example, urban Zambia has 20 times more doctors and over five times more nurses and midwives than the rural areas. In Malawi, 87% of its population lives in rural areas, but 96.6% of doctors are found in urban health facilities. Burkina Faso has one midwife per 8,000 inhabitants in richer zones, and one per nearly 430,000 inhabitants in the poorest zone. In South Africa alone, half of their population lives in rural areas, but only 12% of doctors actually practice there. One solution has been to develop programs designed to train women to perform home-based health care for patients in Rural Africa. One such program is African Solutions to African Problems (ASAP).\n\nRural areas often have fewer job opportunities and higher unemployment rates than urban areas. The professions that are available are often physical in nature, including farming, forestry, fishing, manufacturing, and mining. These occupations are often accompanied by greater health and safety hazards due to the use of complex machinery, exposure to chemicals, working hours, noise pollution, harsher climates, and physical labor. Rural work forces thus report higher rates of life-threatening injuries.\n\nLifestyle and personal health choices also affect the health and expected longevity of individuals in rural areas. Persons from rural areas report higher rates of smoking, exposure to second-hand smoke, and obesity than those in urban areas. Additionally, rural areas often have low rates of fruits and vegetable consumption even where farming is prevalent.\n\nWhile homicide rates are lower in rural areas, death by injury, suicide and poisoning are significantly more prevalent. The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare also reports higher rates of interpersonal violence in rural communities.\n\nIn many countries a lack of critical infrastructure and development in rural areas can impair rural health. Insufficient wastewater treatment, lack of paved roads, and exposure to agricultural chemicals have been identified as additional environmental concerns for those living in rural locations. The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare reports lower water quality and increased crowding of households as factors affecting disease control in rural and remote locations.\n\nSince the mid-1980s, there has been increased attention on the discrepancies between healthcare outcomes between individuals in rural areas and those in urban areas. Since that time there has been increased funding by governments and non-governmental organizations to research rural health, provide needed medical services, and incorporate the needs of rural areas into governmental healthcare policy. Some countries have started rural proofing programs to ensure that the needs of rural communities, including rural health, are incorporated into national policies.\n\nResearch centers (such as the Center for Rural and Northern Health Research at Laurentian University, the Center for Rural Health at the University of North Dakota, and the RUPRI Center) and rural health advocacy groups (such as the National Rural Health Association, National Organization of State Offices of Rural Health, National Rural Health Alliance) have been developed in several nations to inform and combat rural health issues.\n\nIn Canada, many provinces have started to decentralize primary care and move towards a more regional approach. The Local Health Integration Network was established in Ontario in 2007 order to address the needs of the many Ontarians living in rural, northern, and remote areas. In China, a US $50 million pilot project was approved in 2008 to improve public health in rural areas. China is also planning to introduce a national health care system.\n\nThe WHO has done many studies on rural health statistics including for example, showing that urban heath centers score significantly higher in service readiness than rural health centers, and the population of health workers across India where on can see the comparative numbers of workers in urban vs rural areas. Research studies like these exemplify the major problems needing attention in rural health systems and help lead to more impactful improvement projects.\n\nThe WHO also works on evaluation health system improvements and proposing better health system improvements. An article published in March 2017 highlighted the large improvement to be made in the Solomon Islands health system in a plain laid out by the Ministry of Health and Medical Services, supported by the WHO. These large scale changes move to bring health services need by the rural population \"closer to home\".\n\nLack of government intervention in failing health systems has led to the need for NGOs to fill the void in many rural health care systems. NGOs create and participate in rural health projects worldwide.\n\nRural health improvement projects world wide tend to focus on finding solutions to the three basic problems associated with a rural health system. These problems center around communication, transportation of services and goods, and lack of doctors, nurses, and general staff.\n\nMany rural health projects in poor areas that lack access to basic medical help like clinics or doctors use non traditional methods for providing health care. Approaches like Hesperian Health Guides book, Where There is No Doctor and World Hope International's app, \"mBody Health,\" have been shown to increase health awareness and provide additional health resources to rural communities.\n\nAn evaluation of a community organizing, mother and infant health program called the Sure Start project in rural India showed that community organization around maternal and infant health improvement lead to actual improvement in the health of the mother. The evaluation also showed that these community based programs lead to increased use of health services by the mothers.\n\nIn the United States, the Health Resources and Services Administration funds the Rural Hospital Performance Improvement Project to improve the quality of care for hospitals with fewer than 200 beds. Eula Hall founded the Mud Creek Clinic in Grethel, Kentucky to provide free and reduced-priced healthcare to residents of Appalachia. In Indiana, St. Vincent Health implemented the Rural and Urban Access to Health to enhance access to care for under-served populations, including Hispanic migrant workers. As of December 2012, the program had facilitated more than 78,000 referrals to care and enabled the distribution of US $43.7 million worth of free or reduced-cost prescription drugs. Owing to the challenges of providing rural healthcare services worldwide, the non-profit group [Remote Area Medical] began as an effort to provide care in third-world nations but now provide services primarily in the US.\n\nFor residents of rural areas, the lengthy travel time and distance to larger, more developed urban and metropolitan health centers present significant restrictions on access to essential health care services. Telemedicine has been suggested as a way of overcoming transportation barriers for patients and health care providers in rural and geographically isolated areas. According to the Health Resources Services Administration, telemedicine may be defined as the use of electronic information and telecommunication technologies to support long-distance healthcare and clinical relationships. Relevant literature notes that telemedicine provides clinical, education, and administrative benefits for rural areas. First, telemedicine eases the burden of clinical services by the utilization of electronic technology in the direct interaction between health care providers, such as primary and specialist health providers, nurses, and technologists and patients in the diagnosis, treatment, and management of diseases and illnesses. Secondly, the advantage of telemedicine on educational services includes the delivery of healthcare related lectures and workshops through video and tele-conferencing, practical simulations, and web casting. In rural communities, medical professionals may utilize pre-recorded lectures for medical or health care students at remote sites. Also, healthcare practitioners in urban and metropolitan areas may utilize teleconferences and diagnostic simulations to assist understaffed healthcare centers in rural communities diagnose and treat patients from a distance. In a study of rural Queensland health systems, more developed urban health centers used video-conferencing to educate rural physicians on treatment and diagnostic advancements for breast and prostate cancer, as well as various skin disorders, such as eczema and chronic irritations. Thirdly, telemedicine may pose significant administrative benefits to rural areas. Not only does telemedicine aid in the collaboration among health providers with regard to the utilization of electronic medical records, but telemedicine may pose benefits for interviewing medical professionals in remote areas for position vacancies and the transmission of necessary operation-related information between rural health systems and larger, more developed healthcare systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1002050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1002050", "title": "Seal of Solomon", "text": "Seal of Solomon\n\nThe Seal of Solomon (or Ring of Solomon; \"\") is the signet ring attributed to King Solomon in medieval Jewish tradition and in Islamic and Western occultism. It was often depicted in either a pentagram or hexagram shape; the latter also known as the Star of David in Jewish tradition.\n\nThis ring variously gave Solomon the power to command demons, jinn (genie), or to speak with animals.\nDue to the proverbial wisdom of Solomon, his signet ring, or its supposed design, it came to be seen as an amulet or talisman, or a symbol or character in medieval and Renaissance-era magic, occultism, and alchemy.\n\nThe legend of the Seal of Solomon was developed primarily by medieval Arabic writers, who related that the ring was engraved by God and was given to the king directly from heaven. The ring was made from brass and iron, and the two parts were used to seal written commands to good and evil spirits, respectively. In one tale, a demon, either \"Asmodeus\", or \"Sakhr\", obtained possession of the ring and ruled in Solomon's stead for forty days. In a variant of the tale of the ring of Polycrates from Herodotus, the demon eventually threw the ring into the sea, where it was swallowed by a fish, caught by a fisherman, and served to Solomon.\n\nIn Islamic eschatology, the Beast of the Earth is equipped with both the Staff of Moses and the Seal of Solomon and uses the latter to stamp the nose of the unbelievers.\nThe date of origin legends surrounding the Seal of Solomon is difficult to establish. \nIt is known that a legend of a magic ring with which the possessor could command demons was already current in the 1st century (Josephus 8.2 telling of one Eleazar who used such a ring in the presence of Vespasian), but the association of the name of Solomon with such a ring is medieval notwithstanding the 2nd century apocryphal text the Testament of Solomon.\nThe Tractate Gittin (fol. 68) of the Mishnah has a story involving Solomon, Asmodeus, and a ring with the divine name engraved.\n\nThe specification of the design of the seal as a hexagram seems to arise from a medieval Arab tradition.\nThe name \"Solomon's seal\" was given to the hexagram engraved on the bottom of drinking-cups in Arab tradition. In the \"Arabian Nights\" (chapter 20), Sindbad presented Harun al-Rashid with such a cup, on which the \"Table of Solomon\" was engraved. Hexagrams feature prominently in Jewish esoteric literature from the early medieval period, and some authors have hypothesized that the tradition of Solomon's Seal may possibly predate Islam and date to early Rabbinical esoteric tradition, or to early alchemy in Hellenistic Judaism in 3rd-century Egypt, but there is no positive evidence for this, and most scholars assume that the symbol entered the Kabbalistic tradition of medieval Spain from Arabic literature.\nThe representation as a pentagram, by contrast, seems to arise in the Western tradition of Renaissance magic (which was in turn strongly influenced by medieval Arab and Jewish occultism); White Kennett (1660–1728) makes reference to a \"pentangle of Solomon\" with the power of exorcising demons.\n\nThe hexagram or \"Star of David\", which became a symbol of Judaism in the modern period and was placed on the flag of Israel in 1948, \nhas its origins in 14th-century depictions of the Seal of Solomon. \nIn 1354, King of Bohemia Charles IV prescribed for the Jews of Prague a red flag with both David's shield and Solomon's seal, while the red flag with which the Jews met King Matthias of Hungary in the 15th century showed two pentagrams with two golden stars.\n\nPeter de Abano's \"Heptameron\" (1496) makes reference to the \"Pentacle of Solomon\" (actually a hexagram drawn on the floor in which the magician has to stand) to invoke various demons.\n\nLippmann Moses Büschenthal (d. 1818) wrote a tragedy with the title \"Der Siegelring Salomonis\" (\"the signet-ring of Solomon\"). An \"Order of the Seal of Solomon\" was established in 1874 in Ethiopia, where the ruling house claimed descent from Solomon. \n\nWhat distinguishes a Seal of Solomon from a Star of David is the two triangles are interlaced giving the appearance of a 3-dimensional figure. This was said in the Testament of Solomon to make demons confused and dizzy, unable to do Solomon any harm.\n\n"}
{"id": "35083347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35083347", "title": "Shamans (Hutton book)", "text": "Shamans (Hutton book)\n\nShamans: Siberian Spirituality and the Western Imagination is a historical study of how westerners have viewed the shamans of Siberia. It was written by the English historian Ronald Hutton, then working at the University of Bristol, and first published by Hambledon and London in 2001. Prior to writing \"Shamans\", Hutton had authored a series of books on such subjects as Early Modern Britain, pre-Christian religion, British folklore and Contemporary Paganism.\n\nThe book is divided into three sections. The first, entitled \"Why we think we know about shamans\", looks at how Russians and other westerners have understood Siberia and its shamanic practitioners from the Middle Ages to the present day. Specifically, it looks at how the concept of Siberia was created by the invading Russians, and how the governments of the Russian Empire and then the Soviet Union interacted with the many ethnic groups who lived there, and how they dealt with its indigenous shamanic beliefs. In the second section, \"What we think we know about shamans\", he proceeds to highlight the difficulty with the concept of shamanism, which has never been definitively defined by scholars. He goes on to explore the various traits associated with shamanic beliefs and practices in Siberia, looking at cosmology, equipment and costume, and their ritual performances; throughout, he emphasises the great diversity among the shamans of this region. In the third and final section, \"Siberia in the shamanic world\", Hutton looks at the historical development of shamanic beliefs both in Siberia and outside of it, in other parts of Eurasia. Finally, he turns his attention to the current state of shamanism in Siberia and the influence of Neoshamanism.\n\nAcademic reviews published in peer-reviewed journals such as \"Folklore\" and the \"Journal for the Academic Study of Magic\" were predominantly positive. The archaeologist Neil Price however noted a problem in Hutton's discussion of shamanistic beliefs in Scandinavia.\n\nBorn in 1953, Ronald Hutton studied History at Pembroke College, Cambridge, before going on for postgraduate study at Magdalen College, Oxford. In 1981, he was hired as a Reader in History at the University of Bristol, where he wrote a series of four books devoted to 17th century Britain. In 1991, he published his first study of pre-Christian religion, \"The Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles\", based on his longstanding interest in British archaeology. He followed this with two studies of British folkloric customs, \"The Rise and Fall of Merry England\" (1994) and \"The Stations of the Sun\" (1996), and then a history of Wicca, entitled \"The Triumph of the Moon\" (1999). With \"Shamans\" he continued his research into pre-Christian religious beliefs and the manner in which they altered and interacted following Christianisation.\n\nIn the introduction, Hutton notes that since the 1970s, four distinct definitions of \"shamanism\" have been adopted by anthropologists and scholars of religious studies. The first holds that shamanism refers to any practice in which an individual \"contacts a spirit world while in an altered state of consciousness.\" The second reserves the term for those professionals who perform such practices at the request of others. A third definition attempts to distinguish shamans from other magico-religious specialists such as \"mediums\", \"witch doctors\", \"spiritual healers\" and \"prophets\" by certain techniques; Hutton notes that this is the definition most commonly used by modern scholars. The fourth definition makes use of the term purely to refer to the religious beliefs of Siberia and neighbouring parts of Asia, but Hutton criticises such a definition, considering it illogical.\n\nChapter one, \"The Creation of Siberia\", looks at how the region of Siberia in central and eastern Russia first came to be defined by the Europeans living in the west. Hutton then discusses the immense size of the region, its climate and also its geography. The second chapter, entitled \"The Creation of Shamans\", looks at how the Russian authorities came to categorise the indigenous peoples of Siberia, transforming 120 distinct linguistic groups into 35 \"nationalities\" for the purposes of ruling over them. It proceeds to discuss the cultural and ethnic genocide of Siberian native groups by the Russian government, and then highlights the great flexibility and change that occurred within indigenous Siberian society over the centuries.\n\nIn the third chapter, \"The Transformation of Siberians\", Hutton discusses the Russian conquest of Siberia, which largely took place between \"circa\" 1580 and 1650. He highlights the economic reasons for the invasion, which were largely the result of the fur trade, and notes that under Russian rule, the overall population of indigenous peoples in Siberia increased. He goes on to discuss how the increasing eastward migration of European populations from Russia affected the natives, as well as examining the impact of Christianity, Islam and Buddhism, all foreign religions which were introduced and interacted with the indigenous Siberian beliefs, often creating a syncretic blend. In the last part of the chapter, he looks at the persecution of shamans and other indigenous magico-religious practitioners by both Christian Russian authorities and later the Marxist–Leninist administration of the Soviet Union, noting that such traditional practices had been entirely eradicated by the 1980s.\n\nThe fourth chapter, \"The Records of Shamanism\", deals with the many European accounts of shamanic and related practices in Siberia. Hutton opens it by reference to Marco Polo's 13th-century account of a magico-religious practitioner in south-west China, which bore similarities with later accounts from neighbouring Mongolia and Siberia. Carrying on with this approach, he refers to the Franciscan friar William of Rubruck's 1254 account of a Mongol magician. He then discusses the earliest European account of Siberian shamans, produced by the Englishman Richard Johnson in 1557, and the later 1692 account by Dutchman Nicolaes Witsen. Moving on, Hutton looks at various 18th-century accounts, most of which were produced by scientists sent by the Russian government to report on the human and natural resources of the Siberian region, and highlights the negative attitude in which they discuss the shamans, largely viewing them as tricksters and con men. Hutton proceeds to discuss the emergence of anthropology and the manner in which anthropologists began to study the shamans of Siberia, explaining that they usually took a more sympathetic attitude than their predecessors. He finally deals with the role of Soviet anthropologists in not only documenting the vestiges of shamanism, but also aiding in its destruction.\n\nChapter five, \"What Shamans Did\", offers Hutton's exploration of what can be said for certain about the shamans of Siberia. He notes that the term \"shaman\" was a \"crude\" label that has been used to refer to a wide variety of different magico-religious practitioners within the Siberian region, and also highlights the fact that the role of the shaman was rarely central to Indigenous Siberian religion. He emphasises that among different tribal groups, shamans served different individuals, and performed different functions in society, although were typically involved in healing and divinatory practices. In the sixth chapter, entitled \"Shamanic Cosmologies\", Hutton notes that there were three cosmological concepts widespread among Indigenous Siberians: \"the beliefs that even apparently inanimate objects were inhabited by spirit-forms; that the world was structured on a number of different levels; and that living beings possessed more than one 'soul' or animating force.\" Noting that scholars can only truly discuss shamanism based on evidence from the 19th and 20th centuries, when such beliefs had already begun to syncretically mix with incoming foreign religious movements, he then goes on to discuss the myriad different types of spirit assistants found in the cosmologies of Siberia. Throughout this, he emphasises the huge variation within the Siberian region, with different cultural and ethnic groups holding different beliefs about the structure of the cosmos and the relationship between the shaman and those spirits with whom they worked. Criticising the Romanian historian of religion Mircea Eliade for claiming that all Siberian shamans controlled spirits rather than being possessed and controlled by them, Hutton provides evidence to the contrary, highlighting that in certain areas, shamans simply placated spirits rather than controlling them. He then goes on to discuss the western rationalist view that the spirits worked with by shamans were actually altered states of mind existing within the shaman's imagination.\n\nChapter seven, \"Shamanic Apprenticeship and Equipment\", explores the nature of hereditary apprenticeships among Siberian shamans, as well as looking at the concept of a \"shamanic illness\" through which the individual had to undergo great suffering before they could gain their powers. Exploring the training of a shaman, Hutton criticises Eliade's idea that a vision of death and rebirth was universally intrinsic to shamanism, highlighting that it wasn't even found across the entirety of Siberia, let alone the world. Instead, he states that the \"truly universal pattern\" was that of the \"period of withdrawal\" that the trainee shaman undertook before entering the profession, when their rite of passage would come to an end and they would be recognised by both pre-existing shamans and their clientele. Moving on to a discussion of paraphernalia and costume, he argues that the inclusion of at least one shamanic item was standard across Siberia.\n\nIn the eighth chapter, \"Shamanic Performance\", Hutton describes Siberian shamans as \"performing artists\", although notes that there was great variation in what these performances actually entailed. Discussing whether some of their performances were improvised, he then looks at the involvement of either apprentices or specialist shamanic assistants. Exploring the role of the audience, he then rounds off the chapter by looking at the alleged superhuman feats that shamans could perform – such as levitation and acts of extreme self-harm – and while explaining that some of these can be shown to be illusions, in the case of others, he remarks that the explanation remains a \"disturbingly open question.\" In the final chapter of Part Two, \"Knots and Loose Ends\", Hutton explores a variety of different elements to shamanism in Siberia. Discussing the role of payment, he highlights that in some areas, shamans were always paid for their services, but that in others it was customary for them to give their aid for free; for this reason he considers Siberian shamanism to be \"a vocation rather than a profession\". Proceeding to discuss the role of entheogens in Siberian shamanism, he supports Eliade's position that they were only rarely used. Highlighting that there is limited evidence for either shamanic beliefs in shape shifting or in spirit tracks in Siberian shamanism, he then moves on to explore concepts of biological sex and gender. Arguing that in recorded contexts, men rather than women were usually dominant within the shamanic vocation, Hutton then explores the existence of transgender or third gender shamans.\n\nThe tenth chapter, \"The Discovery of a Shamanic World\", deals with the origins of Siberian shamanism, exploring both of the primary theories that have been put forward; that shamanism in Siberia has its origins in prehistory, or that it developed in the Middle Ages as Siberian indigenous religion adopted elements of Buddhism. Although highlighting that both are possible, Hutton maintains that the first is more plausible because of the existence of similar shamanic beliefs in northern Scandinavia, far from Buddhist influence. Exploring the etymology of the word \"shaman\", he then looks at the different approaches adopted by historians studying Siberian shamanism, beginning with the Marxist approach adopted by Soviet scholars in the 20th century. Moving on to discuss the comparative religious approach taken by Mircea Eliade in his seminal study, \"\", Hutton remains highly critical of Eliade's work, and his theory that shamanism was an early form of global Palaeolithic religion. He finally moves on to examine the work of Ioan Lewis on this issue.\n\nChapter eleven, \"The Discovery of a Shamanic Past\", explores scholarly arguments for the existence of shamanism in European prehistory and history, focusing in on such regions as the ancient Near East and ancient Greece, before looking at shamanistic elements in the cave art of the Upper Palaeolithic and the comparisons with South African artworks that have been made by the archaeologist David Lewis-Williams. Exploring potential post-Palaeolithic survivals of shamanism in Europe, he looks at the idea that shamanistic elements can be detected in Neolithic art or in Early Mediaeval Welsh and Irish literature. He then looks at the existence of shamanism among the Saami people of northern Scandinavia. In the latter part of the chapter, Hutton explores the theories that shamanistic elements survived in parts of Southern Europe into the Early Modern period, looking at the ideas of historians Éva Pócs and Gabór Klaniczay that the Hungarian \"táltos\" continued in a shamanic tradition, as well as the ideas of Carlo Ginzburg regarding the Italian \"benandanti\".\n\nIn the final chapter, \"The Discovery of a Shamanic Future\", Hutton reminisces about his own travels in the Soviet Union during the 1980s, noting how most of those he talked to were either reluctant to discuss shamanism or were dismissive of the subject. He contrasts this with the contemporary situation in the Russian Federation, where shamanism is once more being talked about in a positive manner by Siberian Indigenous leaders wishing to reclaim and reassert their cultural and religious heritage. Discussing any possible genuine survivals of shamanism into the 1980s and even into the post-Soviet period, he also looks at the development of the Neoshamanic movement in the western world, and the way in which various Siberians have adopted neoshamanism and claimed it as the genuine continuance of Siberian shamanism.\n\nIn his review for the academic \"Folklore\" journal, Jonathan Roper of the University of Sheffield noted that the work \"could profitably have been twice as long and have provided a more extended treatment of the issues involved\" and that it suffered from a lack of images. On the whole however he thought it \"certainly [should] be recommended to readers as an important work\" on the subject of shamanism, and he hoped that Hutton would \"return to treat this fascinating topic in even greater depth in future.\"\n\n\"Shamans\" was also reviewed by Neil L. Inglis in the \"Journal for the Academic Study of Magic\". Inglis proclaimed Hutton's work to be \"that special gem\", a work that can have a wide appeal despite its specialist nature. Outlining a synopsis of the book, he rounds off his review not by reference to it, but by exclaiming that there is much that we still fail to understand about shamanism.\n\nOn his website, the book reviewer Anthony Campbell turned his attention to Hutton's \"Shamans\", describing it as a \"sympathetic\" discussion of the topic. Considering Hutton to be \"something of a cultural relativist\", he highlights his suspicion that Hutton believes the shamanic claim that they have genuine abilities to contact the spirit world.\n\nWriting in his pioneering study of Norse magical practices, \"The Viking Way: Religion and War in Late Iron Age Scandinavia\" (2002), the English archaeologist Neil Price briefly discussed Hutton's \"Shamans\" in his own summary of published studies of shamanism. Remarking that the book offered an \"excellent study\" of Siberian religion, Price however believed that Hutton had been \"woefully misinformed about the Scandinavian source material\" regarding \"Seiðr\", or Norse magic. He criticised Hutton for treating Norse and Sámi practices as a \"seamless continuum\", and for incorrectly asserting that \"Eiríks saga rauða\" contained the sole reference to a \"vǫlva\" within Old Norse literature. Price lamented that on this occasion, Hutton's \"usually exemplary scholarship\" had been \"spread a little thin.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15727617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15727617", "title": "Soul cake", "text": "Soul cake\n\nA soul cake, also known as a soulmass-cake, is a small round cake which is traditionally made for All Hallows' Eve, All Saints' Day and All Souls' Day to commemorate the dead in the Christian tradition. The cakes, often simply referred to as souls, are given out to soulers (mainly consisting of children and the poor) who go from door to door during the days of Allhallowtide singing and saying prayers \"for the souls of the givers and their friends\". The practice in England dates to the medieval period, and was continued there until the 1930s, by both Protestant and Catholic Christians. In Sheffield and Cheshire, the custom has continued into modern times. In Lancashire and in the North-east of England soul cakes were known as Harcakes.\n\nThe practice of giving and eating soul cakes continues in some countries today, such as Portugal (where it is known as Pão-por-Deus and occurs on All Saint's Day and All Souls Day), as well as the Philippines (where it is known as Pangangaluwa and occurs on All Hallow's Eve). In other countries, souling is seen as the origin of the practice of trick-or-treating. In the United States, some churches, during Allhallowtide, have invited people to come receive sweets from them and have offered \"pray for the souls of their friends, relatives or even pets\" as they do so. Among Catholics and Lutherans, some parishioners have their soul cakes blessed by a priest before being distributed; in exchange, the children promise to pray for the souls of the deceased relatives of the giver during the month of November, which is a month dedicated especially to praying for the Holy Souls. Any leftover soul cakes are shared among the distributing family or given to the poor.\n\nThe tradition of giving soul cakes was celebrated in Britain or Ireland during the Middle Ages, although similar practices for the souls of the dead were found as far south as Italy.\n\nThe cakes are usually filled with allspice, nutmeg, cinnamon, ginger or other sweet spices, raisins or currants, and before baking are topped with the mark of a cross to signify that these were alms. They were traditionally set out with glasses of wine, an offering for the dead as in early Christian tradition, and either on All Hallows' Eve (Halloween), All Saints' Day or All Souls' Day, children would go \"souling\", or ritually begging for cakes door to door.\n\nSouling is a Christian practice carried out during Allhallowtide and Christmastide. The custom was popular in England and is still practised to a minor extent in Sheffield and Cheshire during Allhallowtide. The custom was also popular in Wales and has counterparts in the Philippines and Portugal that are practiced to this day.\n\nAccording to Morton (2013), Souling was once performed throughout the British Isles and the earliest activity was reported in 1511. However, by the end of the 19th century, the extent of the practice during Allhallowtide was limited to parts of England and Wales. \nAccording to Gregory (2010), Souling involved a group of people visiting local farms and cottages. The merrymakers would sing a \"traditional request for apples, ale, and soul cakes. The songs were traditionally known as Souler's songs and were sung in a lamentable tone during the 1800s. Sometimes adult soulers would use a musical instrument, such as a Concertina. \n\nRogers (2003) believes Souling was traditionally practised in the counties of Yorkshire, Lancashire, Cheshire, Staffordshire, peak district of Derbyshire, Somerset and Herefordshire. However, Souling also was associated with other areas. Hutton (2001) believes Souling took place in Hertfordshire. Palmer (1976) states that Souling took place on All Saints day in Warwickshire. However, the custom of Souling ceased to be followed relatively early in the county of Warwickshire but the dole instituted by John Collet in Solihull (now within West Midlands) in 1565 was still being distributed in 1826 on All Souls day. The announcement for collection was made by ringing church bells. Further, soul-cakes were still made in Warwickshire (and other parts of Yorkshire) even though no one visited for them. According to Brown (1992) Souling was performed in Birmingham and parts of the West Midlands; and according to Raven (1965) the tradition was also kept in parts of the Black Country. \n\nIn the county of Staffordshire, the \"custom of Souling was kept on All Saints' Eve\" (halloween). Similarly in Shropshire, during the late 19th century, \"there was set upon the board at All Hallows Eve a high heap of Soul-cakes\" for visitors to take. The songs sung by people in Oswestry (Shropshire) contained some Welsh. \n\nAccording to Harrowven (1979), Souling is \"a fusion of pagan and Christian ritual\". The customs associated with Souling during Allhallowtide include or included consuming and/or distributing soul cakes, singing, carrying lanterns, dressing in disguise, bonfires, playing divination games, carrying a horse's head and performing plays. \nThe traditions associated with Souling included Soulers visiting houses with \"hollowed-out turnip lanterns\" with a candle inside which represented a soul trapped in purgatory. Smith (1989) notes that in parts of Yorkshire, \"children still appear on door steps with turnip lanterns and disguised as witches, ghosts and skeletons\". In Northern England, people sometimes went souling in disguise wearing long black cloaks. At times, children went out Souling in disguise. According to the Folk-lore Society publication of 1940, children went Souling in costume. Such masquerading in costume was either a tribute to saints or imitated spirits. \n\nBonfires were also lit on Halloween and during Hallowtide which Roud (2008) suggests may be related to the Purgation of souls by holy fire. Fires known as Tindle fires were made by children on All Souls night in Derbyshire. In Lancashire, bonfires were lit on Halloween which were known as Teanlay fires which were lit on many hills to observe the fast (feast) of All Souls and the night was called Teanlay Night (after which the Teanlowe Shopping Centre is named in Poulton-le-Fylde). \n\nAccording to Hardwick (1872), the burning of fires on Halloween may also be related to earlier practices. In the English countryside, people lit bonfires to ward off evil spirits. Glassie (1969) believes that fires on Halloween were lit into modern times in the Celtic areas of \"northern and western most counties of England\". During the 1850s, in Carleton, Lancashire, fires were lit to \"defend the corn from darnel\". \n\nAs an alternative to bonfires, in Lancashire, candles were carried between 11 pm and midnight on Halloween in a procession up the hills in a custom known as 'lating the witches'. If the candles continuously burnt then the witches powers would not affect the candle holder as \"it was firmly believed in Lancashire that the witches assembled on this night at their general rendezvous in the Forest of Pendle\" which relates to the 17th century Pendle witches. East of Pendle, candles were lit in every window an hour before midnight; if the candle burnt out before midnight, it was believed evil would follow. According to Frazer (1935) at Longridge Fell, during the early part of the 19th century, \"parties went from house to house in the evening collecting candles,one for each inmate, and offering their services to late or leet the witches\". Hampson (1841) notes that the words 'lating' and 'leeting' are derived from the Saxon word 'leoht' meaning light.\n\nGlassie suggests that long after 1 November was dedicated to All Saints' day, a Christian festival, people still continued to practice older pagan beliefs, such as playing divination games on All Saints' evening. The Chambers's Encyclopædia (1871) states that on Halloween in England, \"it was long customary to crack nuts, duck for apples in a tub of water, and perform other harmless fireside revelries\". According to Green (1859), \"in some parts of England, the Souling Customs have nuts connected with them, and All Souls' Eve is then named, Nut-crack Night\". Such games were also played on Halloween leading to Halloween being known as nut-crack night in the north of England. \n\nAnother game involved the use of apples and in some parts of England, Halloween was known as snap-apple night. In Staffordshire, one form of the game involved suspending a string from the ceiling, and attaching an apple at the end. The apple was then swung in a pendulum motion. The players would need to bite the apple with their hands behind their backs. At Knowle near Solihull, the winner of a game of apple bobbing peeled the apple and \"threw the parings over her shoulder. The shape of the peel on the ground could indicate the initials of a future spouse\". Apple bobbing is still played on Halloween. \n\nPlaying of divination games with apples was also popular on other days dedicated to saints such as St Clement's day on 23 November which was known as Bite-Apple night in places such as Wednesbury (Sandwell) and Bilston (Wolverhampton) when people went \"Clementing\" in a similar manner to Souling.\n\nIn some parts of Cheshire, during the 19th century, adults and children went Souling performing plays and carrying an Old Hob which consisted of a horse's head enveloped in a sheet. The head would be put on a pole and sometimes, a candle would be lit inside, in which case the pole bearer would be covered in a sheet. During the early 1900s, men in Warburton went out on All Saints day with lanterns at night with one of the men wearing a horse's skull called the \"Old Warb\" and visited farmer's houses for drink and money. Barber (1910) believes the use of an imitation of a horse's head by Soulers resulted in Souling \"being grafted on to the pagan custom of 'hodening'\".\n\nBy the latter half of the 19th century, states Simpson (1976), it was more usual for children to go out Souling. Further, by the 19th century, memories of begging for bread \"for the sake of souls departed\" had faded, \"leaving only the name soul-cake\". \n\nThe educational reforms of 1870 meant that children, other than very small children, went to school which was when Souling would be carried by children and this affected the extent of the practice. However, the custom persisted in \"rural Cheshire, northern Shropshire and adjoining part of Staffordshire\" up to the 1950s. Hole (1975) noted in her book \"English Traditional Customs\" that \"in Cheshire and Shropshire, small bands of children still go Souling through the villages on All Souls' Day (or on All Saints' Day which is its Eve). They visit the houses and sing one or other of the traditional Souling-songs, and are then rewarded with gifts of money, or cakes, or sweets\". Simpson (1976) also states that in some villages in Cheshire, children have maintained the Souling tradition and go out Souling either on Halloween or the first two days of November.\n\nHutton (2001) believes Souling is being observed in modern times in Sheffield. The custom on the outskirts of Sheffield is known as caking-night and traditionally took take place either on 30/31 October or 1/2 November where children \"said the traditional caking rhyme (\"Cake, cake, copper, copper\"), and received about ten pence from each householder\" as reported in Lore and Language, Volume 3, Issues 6-10 in 1982. Prior to the Second World War, children in Dungworth, Yorkshire, went 'caking' wearing masks and visiting houses in the village, \"asking the householder to guess their identity\". According to Sykes (1977), caking night is also known as caking neet which traditionally takes place on 1 November, or the first Monday if the first falls on a Saturday or a Sunday. According to Chainey (2018), soul caking is still very popular in Cheshire.\n\nIn the county of Cheshire, Souling plays were traditionally performed. This involved groups of soulers visiting farmhouses performing a death and resurrection play. One of the members would wear a horse-skull without which the play could not be performed. According to Whitmore (2010), the plays were presided by Beelzebub (the Devil) and if two Soulers' gangs met, they had to fight and smash the losers' horse skull. A link between Souling and the deceased was made by Wilfred Isherwood, leader of the Antrobus cast, when he said in 1954 that they believed in Souling and ghosts.\n\nSouling plays still take place in Cheshire where groups such as the Jones' Ale Soul Cakers perform annually. The villages of \nAntrobus and Comberbach are also noted for Souling plays in Cheshire. \n\nThe Antrobus’ troop perform annually in pubs around Cheshire between 31st October and 12th November. The characters include the Letter-in, Black Prince, King George, the Quack Doctor, and ‘Dick’ the Wild Horse and his Driver. The characters are believed to represent the souls of the dead. \nRogers (2003) believes Souling took place in Monmouth and Caenarvonshire in Wales. According to Ross (2001), in many parts of Wales, up to the eighteenth century, the Souling ceremony involved lighting candles in the parish Church. Parishioners donated the candles and \"when they were lit, the way in which the flame burned, faintly or brightly, would serve as a prognosis of the future\". The ceremony also involved preparing sole cakes which were known as pice rhanna. Sometimes, during the 19th century, upon receiving the soul cakes, people would \"pray to God to bless the next crop of wheat\".\n\nSouling was known as hel solod and hel bwyd cennady meirw, \"collecting the food of the messenger of the dead\". This custom took place in many parts of Wales on All Souls' Eve. In 1823, it was noted that there was a tradition in Wales for the messenger, known as cennad ymeirw, to knock on doors and say 'Deca, Deca, dowch i'r drws, a rhowch . . . igennady meirw'. [Deca, Deca, come to the door... and give to the messenger of death]. If nothing was received, the response would be 'Deca, Deca, o dan y drws, a phen, y wraig yn siwtrws ['Deca, Deca, under the door, and the wife's head in smithereens]. Food known as Bwyd Cennad y Meirw was also left outside and the hearth was prepared at night for the arrival of the dead relatives. According to Ellwood (1977), doors were left unbolted. Children went out on All Saints' day too in Denbighshire and Merionethshire asking for Bwyd Cennad y Meirw in the late 1800s. People in North Wales also distributed soul-cakes on All Souls' Day and lit a great fire called Coel Coeth on All Saints' Eve \"when every family about an hour in the night\" made a great fire near their house. \n\nIn Pembrokeshire, people went Souling for bread and cheese. In Gower, the dish associated with All Souls' day is souly cake which is a fruit/spice bun. According to Duncan (2010), bakers gave souly cakes (small loaves) to their customers which were kept by them in their homes to bring good luck. Such cakes, according to Duncan, are still baked in Wales.\n\nIn 1891, Rev. M. P. Holme of Tattenhall, Cheshire, collected the song traditionally sung during souling, from a little girl at the local school. Two years later, the text and tune were published by folklorist Lucy Broadwood, who commented that souling was still practised at that time in Cheshire and Shropshire. Further recordings of the traditional soul-cake song were collected in various parts of England until the 1950s. Versions collected later may have been influenced by folk revival recordings of the song by such groups as The Watersons.\n\nThe 1891 version contains a chorus and three verses:\n\n<poem>\n[Chorus]\nA soul! a soul! a soul-cake!\nPlease good Missis, a soul-cake!\nAn apple, a pear, a plum, or a cherry,\nAny good thing to make us all merry.\nOne for Peter, two for Paul\nThree for Him who made us all.\n\n[Verse 1]\nGod bless the master of this house, \nThe misteress also, \nAnd all the little children \nThat round your table grow. \nLikewise young men and maidens, \nYour cattle and your store ; \nAnd all that dwells within your gates, \nWe wish you ten times more.\n\n[Verse 2]\nDown into the cellar, \nAnd see what you can find, \nIf the barrels are not empty, \nWe hope you will prove kind. \nWe hope you will prove kind, \nWith your apples and strong beer, \nAnd we'll come no more a-souling \nTill this time next year.\n\n[Verse 3]\nThe lanes are very dirty, \nMy shoes are very thin, \nI've got a little pocket \nTo put a penny in. \nIf you haven't got a penny, \nA ha'penny will do ; \nIf you haven't get a ha'penny, \nIt's God bless you</poem>\nIn 1963, the American folk group Peter, Paul and Mary recorded this as \"A' Soalin\", including all the verses as well as parts of \"Hey, Ho, Nobody Home\" and \"God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen\" (which are traditionally associated with Christmas). The musical arrangement (including the accompaniment, chords, and interpolations from the other traditional songs) is quite different from the published 1893 version and was copyrighted by members of the group.\n\nAmerican Hallowe'en composer Kristen Lawrence found two historical tunes associated with soul cakes as she was researching souling songs for her 2009 \"A Broom With A View\" album. As Lawrence heard the traditional Cheshire tune, she was struck that the beginning notes were the same as the mediaeval plainchant Dies Irae, \"Day of Judgment\", calling the people to repent and pray for the dead. It seemed plausible that the Cheshire tune could be a folk corruption of the chant as children and beggars asked for cakes in return for praying for the dead.\nThe song \"Soul Cake\" from British rock musician Sting's 2009 album \"If on a Winter's Night...\" seems to be an adaptation of the Peter, Paul, and Mary version, in that both depart from historical accuracy by referring to Christmas rather than All Saints' Day or All Souls' Day. But the 1893 version of the song already shares lines from similar Christmas carols: \"Here We Come A-Wassailing\" and \"Christmas is A-Coming\".\n\nIn the Philippines, the practice of souling is called Pangangaluwa and is practiced on All Hallow's Eve among children in rural areas. People drape themselves in white cloths to represent souls and then visit houses, where they sing in return for prayers and sweets. \n\nIn Portugal, groups of children go souling on All Hallow's Day, collecting \"Pão-por-Deus\" (bread for God's sake) from their neighbours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2986079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2986079", "title": "Speak White", "text": "Speak White\n\nSpeak White is a racist insult used by English-speaking Canadians against those who speak other languages in public, especially French Canadians. The slur inspired a French language poem composed by Québécois writer Michèle Lalonde in 1968. It was first recited in 1970 during the landmark \"Nuit de la Poésie\" and was published in 1974 by Éditions de l'Hexagone, Montreal. It denounced the poor situation of French-speakers in Quebec and takes the tone of a collective complaint against English-speaking Quebecers. Her poem is directed primarily at English Canada, although often citing British and American references such as Shakespeare, Keats, the Thames, the Potomac and Wall Street as its symbols of linguistic oppression.\n\nThe 1980 short film \"Speak White\" by filmmakers Pierre Falardeau and Julien Poulin features actress Marie Eykel reading Lalonde's poem. It was released by the National Film Board of Canada.\n\nIn 1989, the Italian-Quebecer journalist and playwright Marco Micone wrote a poem in response called \"Speak What?\", depicting allophone immigrants as the same oppressed class as the Québécois in Quebec, and calling for a more inclusive society.\nThe poem \"Speak White\" is an integral part of a one-man play by Robert Lepage \"887\" which premiered in Toronto in 2015, and was also performed in August 2015 at the Edinburgh International Arts Festival in Scotland.\n\n\"Speak White\" is a racist insult used by English-speaking Canadians against those who speak other languages in public. André Laurendeau recorded anecdotal evidence in his 1963 journal during the Laurendeau-Dunton Commission that English Canadians would hurl the phrase at French Canadians outside Quebec, and speculated that it was borrowed from the Southern United States. Anecdotal evidence also suggests that the phrase was used against immigrants.\n\n"}
{"id": "41183842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41183842", "title": "Story generator", "text": "Story generator\n\nA story generator or plot generator is a tool that generates basic narratives or plot ideas. The generator could be in the form of a computer program, a chart with multiple columns, a book composed of panels that flip independently of one another, or a set of several adjacent reels that spin independently of one another, allowing a user to select elements of a narrative plot. The tool may allow the user to select elements for the narrative, or it may combine them randomly, a specific variation known as a random plot generator. Such tools can be created for virtually any genre, although they tend to produce formulaic and hackneyed situations.\n\nPlot generators were described as early as the 1930s. In an article originally published in 1935 and reprinted in 2002, Robert J. Hogan described a book-based device called the \"Plot Genie\" which consisted of three lists of 180 items each: murder victims in the first list, crime locations in the second list, and important clues in the third list. The item to use from each list was chosen by spinning a dial with 180 numbers on it. Hogan also mentions other similar devices called \"The 36 Dramatic Situations\" and \"Plotto: The Master Book of All Plots\". \"Plotto\" by William Wallace Cook is a non-random plot generator. The reader makes all the decisions within the framework set out by the book.\n\nThe earliest computerized story generator was TALE-SPIN, an artificial intelligence program developed in the 1970s. More recently in the 1990s, the computer program MEXICA was developed for academic research into automated plot generation. It produces plots related to the Mexica people. Using an approach similar to that of MEXICA, the program ProtoPropp generates stories related to Russian folklore. There are a large number of \"random plot generators\" available on the internet—generic and relating to specific fandoms, with a certain amount of academic research into the subject.\n\nPlot generators have also been portrayed in fiction, as in Fritz Leiber's \"The Silver Egghead\".\n\nThe term story generator algorithms (SGAs) refers to computational procedures resulting in an artifact that can be considered a story. In the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI), the automated generation of stories has been a subject of research for over fifty years. An algorithm is understood as a set of instructions that, when applied to a given input, produces an output. In the present context, the desired output is a story. The underlying concept of “story” in SGAs is functional and does not imply any aesthetic notion. This is important because it sets the context for evaluation of generated stories, for which having a surface realization as a readable and appealing text is not necessarily a core issue.\n"}
{"id": "46906582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46906582", "title": "Tales of Berseria", "text": "Tales of Berseria\n\n\"Tales of Berseria\" is a role-playing video game, where players navigate the game's world through the game's characters from a third-person perspective. As with previous \"Tales\" games, characters can interact through Skits, animated clips that play outside cutscenes and battle: characters are represented by head-and-shoulder portraits, and conversations can range from serious to comedic. New to the series' Skit systems is a cut-in effect, where at certain moments within skits characters in various poses will appear in response to the dialogue.\n\nAs with previous \"Tales\" titles, the game uses a variation of the Linear Motion Battle System (LMBS). \"Berseria\"s version is dubbed the \"Liberation-LMBS\": when in the battle zone, players can freely move around the arena and rotate the camera at will. Characters fight using physical and magical attacks, along with performing skills known as Artes that have various effects on enemies such as stunning them or causing status ailments. Artes can be directly mapped to different control buttons. Abilities outside attacking include guarding against attacks, side-stepping around opponents, and escaping from battle.\n\nA key element in battles is the Soul Gauge, which replaces the move-governing mechanics of earlier \"Tales\" games: each character has a separate gauge showing up to five Souls, which are used up when Artes are used. While characters can still attack with a depleted Soul Gauge, their attacks can be easily deflected by enemies, but the Soul Gauge automatically recharges with time. Souls are dropped by enemies in battle that can be \"stolen\" to refill the gauge, a mechanic that enemies can also use to steal Souls from the player. If enough of the Soul Gauge is full characters can activate unique states called the Break Soul, where they can exceed their combo limit and bring unique effects into battle: for instance, Velvet's Break Soul triggers her arm to become bestial and different elemental attacks are triggered depending on enemy type.\n\nThe main party consists of four characters, which can all be assigned as the controlled character during battle, with the other available playable characters held in reserve. While primarily designed for single-player, local multiplayer for battles is supported. A mechanic called the Switch Blast can be used when changing characters: by consuming a portion of the Blast Gauge, the controlled party member switches out for a reserve member, who delivers a free attack. The Blast Gauge is also depleted by performing power attacks called Mystic Artes.\n\n\"Berseria\" takes places in the Holy Midgand Empire, a powerful country that rules over this world's archipelago of a continent. The game's world is shared with \"Tales of Zestiria\", although the events occur before the latter. There are countless numbers of islands around, and Midgand's rule crosses even the seas. Areas of land and islands in the game are divided into \"territories.\" Along with humans, one of the other main races is the Malakhim (singular: Malak), supernatural spirits whose wills are sealed and used by humans as slaves to utilize their magical abilities after being made visible to even normal humans due to the Advent, an incident 3 years prior to Velvet's escape from her prison. Throughout the empire, a disease known as Daemonblight causes those infected to lose their humanity and sense of rationality and transform into monsters known as Daemons, who pose a threat to the world. Along with the rulers of the Holy Midgand Empire exists a theocratic order known as the Abbey, who are of great political and religious importance and are influential in imperial affairs. The Exorcists, soldiers from the Abbey, are tasked with bringing peace and order by purging the world of Daemons and are willing to go to extremes to reach their goal.\n\nWhen she was a child, Velvet Crowe and her younger brother Laphicet were saved by her brother-in-law Artorius when a Scarlet Night happened and daemons attacked their village; Velvet's pregnant older sister Celica was killed during the event known as the \"Opening\". Seven years later, Velvet takes care of her sickly brother with Artorius. The Scarlet Night returns, with the entire village succumbing to the Daemonblight: when Velvet finds Artorius, she sees him sacrifice her brother as part of a ritual, known as the \"Advent\". Artorius attempts to use her for the Advent as well, but she fights back and the Daemonblight possesses her arm, mutating it and turning her into a Daemon called a \"Therion\", with the ability to absorb Daemons. In a rage, she slaughters the nearby Daemons before passing out. She awakes in a prison for Daemons on the island Titania, swearing to kill Artorius and avenge her brother's murder. A group of beings known as Malakhim, who were previously only visible to \"resonant\" individuals, become visible to most people of the world after the \"Advent\". Over the next three years, Artorius forms the Abbey to bring peace to the Holy Midgand Empire, becoming the Abbey's \"Shepherd\" and is seen as a savior by the people for establishing the Exorcists using the malakhim. \n\nAfter three years in prison, Velvet is freed by Seres, Artorius' former malak, who has broken away from him. During her escape, Velvet aids fellow prisoners Rokurou and Magilou and fights against the Praetor Exorcist Oscar Dragonia. Seres takes a fatal attack when Oscar turns one of his Malakhim servants into a dragon to face them. Absorbing Seres at her own request, Velvet makes a final attack on Oscar that blinds him in one eye before he escapes. Velvet realizes at this point that Seres must be a reincarnation of her deceased sister, Celica. Velvet and company then escape the island. Over the course of her journey to get her revenge, she also meets Laphicet, a Malak formerly in service to Praetor Exorcist Teresa Linares until being kidnapped and named by her; Eleanor, an Abbey Exorcist who questions their methods; and Eizen, a Malak who travels with pirates who grant the group sanctuary. They are also joined by Bienfu, a Normin Malak originally contracted with Magilou and who had since been bound to Eleanor while Magilou was imprisoned. Eleanor is initially reluctant to join Velvet, attempting suicide before being asked to spy on the group and then learning the Abbey's full plans.\n\nThe group learn that Artorius, Oscar, Teresa, and Legate Exorcists Shigure Rangetsu and Melchior Mayvin are trying to purge the Daemonblight by erasing all emotion from humankind: to do this, they needed to summon Innominat, one of five powerful Malakim called the Empyreans, into the world. The Abbey has been creating Therions and feeding their power to Innominat to awaken him. The Abbey is ultimately successful, with Innominat taking on the form of Velvet's deceased brother. It is also revealed to the group early on that Daemonblight is actually an impurity called \"malevolence\" generated by the negative emotions of humanity, which can turn humans into Daemons, and that Daemons and Malakhim are visible to only humans who possess \"resonance\" in them. Artorius' actions caused humanity's latent resonance to be amplified, revealing Malakhim and Daemons. Laphicet is revealed to be the reincarnation of Celica's unborn son. Initially disheartened by the revelations, Velvet embraces her role as the \"Lord of Calamity\" who will topple the Abbey.\n\nIn order for the group to defeat Artorius and Innominat, they pursue each of the Exorcists, defeating them and using their souls as sacrifices to awaken the four Empyreans. They then face Artorius, who merges with Innominat in the final battle before Velvet kills him once and for all. Innominat begins going berserk, and Velvet decides to seal herself away with him so that Laphicet and the other Therions (whose lives are linked to Innominat's) can survive. Laphicet becomes Innominat's replacement with the help of the four Empyreans who would serve Laphicet as his Lords. Laphicet then transforms into a benevolent dragon and purifies the land of malevolence, at the cost of humans not being able to see the Malakhim. Eleanor decides to become a Shepherd to guide the people, Magilou records the events of the world in her role as a scribe, while Laphicet renames himself as \"Maotelus\"—these events foreshadow and set the scene for \"Tales of Zestiria\".\n\nDevelopment for \"Tales of Berseria\" began in the fall of 2014 at Bandai Namco Studios, after active development had finished on \"Zestiria\". A notable change was Hideo Baba not acting as producer, his role instead being filled by Yasuhiro Fukaya while Baba himself took over general supervision of the \"Tales\" series. Yoshimasa Tanaka acted as director; the music was composed by Motoi Sakuraba; the battle system was designed by Tatsuro Udo; while the characters were designed by Mutsumi Inomata, Kōsuke Fujishima, Minoru Iwamoto and Daigo Okumura. While it is the first original \"Tales\" title to be developed for the PlayStation 4, it will also release on the PlayStation 3 in Japan: the game was first developed on PS3, then upgraded to PS4. Using a similar engine to past \"Tales\" titles, the majority of updating went into technical improvements to ensure smooth performance on all platforms. \"Berseria\" is intended to be the last mainline \"Tales\" title for seventh-generation consoles.\n\nThe scenario was written by Naoki Yamamoto, who had previously worked on \"Zestiria\". Despite being a distant prequel to \"Tales of Zestiria\"—taking place in the distant past and containing references—the game's story was designed to be able to work on its own. This distant connection concept was inspired by the developer's wish to emulate the similar distant narrative connection between \"Tales of Phantasia\" and \"Tales of Symphonia\". It also featured nods to earlier entries in the series, such as the party's ship being named after a similar transport ship in \"Tales of Eternia\". The main theme of \"Tales of Berseria\" is the conflict between emotion and reason, with Velvet being the incarnation of emotion and rage. This theme is represented in the game's title, which stems from the term \"Berserker\", legendary warriors who were imbued with uncontrollable power. The game was the first in the \"Tales\" series to feature a sole female protagonist, with the previous leading female character being Milla Maxwell from \"Tales of Xillia\", who shared her role as a main dual protagonist with male protagonist character Jude Mathis. As Milla had been popular with the \"Tales\" fanbase, it was decided that \"Berseria\" would have a female lead. The decision was also influenced by the growing demands for female lead characters in gaming, particularly from the West.\n\nBandai Namco Entertainment had filed a trademark for the title, along with two other titles, on April 20, 2015. On June 6, 2015, the game was officially announced, including details on the protagonist Velvet, voiced by Rina Satou and designed by Mutsumi Inomata. It was revealed that ufotable would animate the anime cutscenes. The game was described as the final part of the company's 20th anniversary celebrations for the \"Tales\" series. The game's year of release was announced in December 2015, while its western release for PS4 and Microsoft Windows was confirmed the following week. The game's theme song, \"Burn\", was composed and performed by Flow. Its characteristic genre name, a recurring feature of the series, is . For the game's Western release, the scene where Artorius kills Velvet's brother Laphicet was altered: rather than stabbing him directly with his sword, Artorius sacrifices him through a magical ceremony, reducing the level of violence while keeping the dramatic significance of the scene intact. This alteration was made to keep the game's age rating within acceptable levels, with particular reference being given to preserving the \"16\" rating given by Europe's Pan European Game Information board. In a later statement Bandai Namco stated that, aside from text and dialogue variations standard for the game's Japanese-to-English localization, no other content had been altered for the Western release.\n\nThe game received a positive reception overall. Aggregate site Metacritic gave the PS4 and PC versions of the game scores of 79/100 and 80/100 respectively. \"Famitsu\" gave \"Tales of Berseria\" a score of 35 out of 40 based on four reviews. Among the positive comments made were towards its story and characters, along with aspects of its gameplay. The reviewers' main criticisms were leveled against some lack of originality in the gameplay and disappointment that the game did not better utilize the graphical power of the PS4. \"Dengeki PlayStation\" praised the story and characters, particularly noting Satō's performance as Velvet, and said the battles were the most enjoyable in the series to date. It did criticize the tutorials as being too long, wanted faster character movement earlier in the game, and said that series newcomers might be overwhelmed by the number of aspects to learn.\n\nMeghan Sullivan from \"IGN\" gave \"Tales of Berseria\" a score of 8.8/10, praising the emotional storytelling, diverse cast of characters, and how Velvet felt more like an anti-hero compared to protagonists of prior entries of the \"Tales\" series. Some criticisms were about the generic look of some of the game's environment and how much backtracking was required through old locations to advance through the game.\n\n\"Destructoid\" gave it a score of 8/10.\n"}
{"id": "39189535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39189535", "title": "Terministic screen", "text": "Terministic screen\n\nTerministic screen is a term in the theory and criticism of rhetoric. It involves the acknowledgment of a language system that determines an individual's perception and symbolic action in the world.\n\nKenneth Burke develops the terministic screen in his book of essays called \"Language as Symbolic Action\" in 1966. He defines the concept as \"a screen composed of terms through which humans perceive the world, and that direct attention away from some interpretations and toward others\". Burke offers the metaphor to explain why people interpret messages differently, based on the construction of symbols, meanings, and, therefore, reality. Words convey a particular meaning, conjuring images and ideas that induce support toward beliefs or opinions. Receivers interpret the intended message through a metaphorical screen of their own vocabulary and perspective to the world. Certain terms may grab attention and lead to a particular conclusion. \"Language reflects, selects, and deflects as a way of shaping the symbol systems that allow us to cope with the world\". Every word chosen says something about the society we live in. The language we choose to use will be a representation of our reality, our world, our culture, and our beliefs, even without intention.\n\nBurke describes two different types of terministic screens: scientistic and dramatistic. Scientistic begins with a definition of a term; it describes the term as what it is or what it is not, putting the term in black and white. When defining, the essential function is either attitudinal or hortatory. In other words, the focus is on expressions or commands. When terms are treated as hortatory, they are developed. Burke comments on why he uses developed rather than another word. \"I say 'developed'; I do not say 'originating'. The ultimate origins of language seem to me as mysterious as the origins of the universe itself. One must view it, I feel, simply as the 'given' \". The dramatistic approach concerns action: thou shalt or thou shalt not. This screen directs the audience toward action based on interpretation of a term. Via terministic screens, the audience will be able to associate with the term or dissociate from it.\n\n\"Social constructionism is a metaphor that attempts to capture the way Burke viewed the nature of the world and the function of language therein.\" Symbols, terms, and language build our view of life. Social constructionism allows us to look at Burke's theory in terms we recognize and are comfortable with. \n\nWhen a person says gender, most people, based on their individual beliefs, normally think of male or female. However, some could think of intersex individuals. If someone says they think of male, female, and intersex, more would be reflected about the person based on their terminology. Still others would recognize gender as different from biological sex, and say they think of man, woman, and other genders. Another example occurs within the abortion controversy. A pro-choice advocate would most likely use the word \"fetus\" but pro-life advocates would use the word \"baby\", because the term stirs more realistic and relatable images and has a bearing on the legal status. Using the word \"baby\" versus \"fetus\" defines reality differently (scientistic) and guides people to act in a certain way (dramatistic) solely based on term selection that may be unconscious.\n\nWords are absolute for thought and action. According to Burke, individuals create terministic screens consciously and unconsciously, as they perceive the world and share perspectives. Burke contends these screens set up a network of beliefs through which all ideas will be interpreted. Communication scholar Paul Stob contends that the language we use is thus not just a direct reflection of our intelligence, but also of perception and culture. David Blakesley posits that the terministic screen enables the further understanding of rhetorical perspectives. In each of these ways, the terministic screen allows for concepts to be interpreted in different ways by different people and contribute to the complexity of meaning.\n\n"}
{"id": "3351541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3351541", "title": "The Plowman's Tale", "text": "The Plowman's Tale\n\nThere are two pseudo-Chaucerian texts called The Plowman's Tale (aka Brent's Story). \n\nIn the mid-15th century a rhyme royal \"Plowman's Tale\" was added to the text of \"The Canterbury Tales\" in the Christ Church MS. This tale is actually an orthodox Roman Catholic, possibly anti-Lollard version of a Marian miracle story written by Thomas Hoccleve called \"Item de Beata Virgine\". Someone composed and added a prologue to fit Hoccleve's poem into Chaucer's narrative frame. This bogus tale did not survive into the printed editions of Chaucer's \"Works\".\n\nThe better-known \"Plowman's Tale\" was included in printed editions of Chaucer's \"Works\". It is a decidedly Wycliffite anti-fraternal tale that was written \"ca.\" 1400 and circulated among the Lollards. Sometimes titled \"The Complaynte of the Plowman\", it is 1380 lines long, composed of eight-line stanzas (ababbcbc with some variations suggesting interpolation) like Chaucer's \"Monk's Tale\". There is no clear internal/design connection in \"The Plowman's Tale\" with Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\" or \"Piers Plowman\". Anthony Wotton, who was probably the editor of the 1606 edition of \"The Plowman's Tale\", suggested that \"The Plowman's Tale\" makes a reference to \"Jack Upland\" or, more likely, \"Pierce the Ploughman's Crede\", since main character in \"The Plowman's Tale\" says, \"Of Freres I haue told before / In a making of a Crede...\" (1065–66). \"The Plowman's Tale\" also borrows heavily from the \"Crede\".\n\nSome sections of \"The Plowman's Tale\", such as the prologue, were added in the 16th century to make it fit better as one of Chaucer's tales. The prologue announces that a sermon is to follow in the tale. Instead, a traveller with none of the characteristics of Chaucer's plowman (or any literary plowman of the era) overhears a Pelican and a Griffin debating about the clergy. Most of the lines are the Pelican's, who attacks the typical offences in an evangelical manner, discusses Antichrist, and appeals to the secular government to humble the church. The Pelican is driven off by force but is then vindicated by a Phoenix. The tale ends with a disclaimer wherein the author distinguishes his own views from those of the Pelican, stating that he will accept what the church requires.\n\nThe association of this and other texts with Chaucer was possible because Chaucer's \"General Prologue\" to \"The Canterbury Tales\" introduces a Plowman who never receives a tale. This omission seems to have sparked the creativity of others from an early date. In the \"General Prologue\", the Host jokes about the Plowman's brother, who is the Parson. In some surviving manuscripts the Host suggests that the Parson is a \"Lollere.\" As early as 1400, Chaucer's courtly audience grew to include members of the rising literate, middle-/merchant class, which included many Lollard sympathizers who would have been inclined to believe in a Lollard Chaucer.\n\nThe sole surviving manuscript of \"The Plowman's Tale\" (written in a sixteenth-century hand) was inserted at the end of \"The Canterbury Tales\" in a copy of Thomas Godfrey/Godfray's 1532 printed edition of Chaucer's \"Works\" (STC 5068), edited by William Thynne. (This is in PR 1850 1532 cop. 1 at the University of Texas Harry Ransom Center.) According to Thomas Speght, John Stow had a manuscript copy that is now lost. William Thynne's son, Francis Thynne, wrote in his \"Animadversions\" that \"The Plowman's Tale\" was not printed along with the other tales in 1532 because of suppression started by Cardinal Thomas Wolsey (ca. 1475-1529/30). However, Francis Thynne's views are often discounted, largely because he was only an infant when his father was working on his Chaucer editions.\n\nSome scholars have argued that \"The Plowman's Tale\" was part of a Henrician propaganda effort. Godfrey was probably working with the King's Printer, Thomas Berthelet, and he was protected by Thomas Cromwell (c. 1485–1540), earl of Essex, who was responsible for the Dissolution of the Monasteries (1536–39). But \"The Plowman's Tale\" could also be used as criticism against the king, since the Pelican marvels at the ignorance of parliament and of the lords and the king concerning the plight of the commons. In the mildest interpretation, \"The Plowman's Tale\" makes a bid for the necessity and appropriateness of heeding the concerns of the commons.\n\n\"The Plowman's Tale\" was successfully printed on its own in an octavo edition by Godfray ca. 1533–36 (STC 5099.5). In 1542, Tyndale's New Testament and other vernacular books were banned – essentially everything printed in English before 1540 – with the exception of \"Canterburye tales, Chaucers bokes, Gowers bokes and stories of mennes lieves\" according to a royal statute, the \"Act for the Advancement of True Religion\". \"The Plowman's Tale\" was printed again as a duodecimo volume in London by William Hyll ca. 1548 (STC 5100) as \"The Plouumans tale compylled by syr Geffray Chaucher knyght.\" In the year of the ban it was printed in Thynne's second (1542) edition of Chaucer's \"Works\", under the imprints of William Bonham (STC 5069) and John Reynes (STC 5070).\n\nAfter 1542, \"The Plowman's Tale\" appeared in new and reprinted editions of Chaucer's \"Works\" based on Thynne's text for some two centuries, during which the Chaucer canon and order of the \"Canterbury Tales\" was quite fluid. Thomas Tyrwhitt finally excluded \"The Plowman's Tale\" from his 1775 edition of the poet's work.\n\nThe king's antiquary (under Henry VIII), John Leland (c. 1506–52), seems to have confused \"Piers Plowman\" and \"The Plowman's Tale\", referring to \"Petri Aratoris Fabula\" (Peter/Piers Plowman's Tale) as a Canterbury tale. John Bale similarly included \"Arator Narratio\" (Plowman's Tale) in his list of the \"Canterbury Tales\" in his \"Scriptorum Illustrium Maioris Brytanniae . . . Catalogus\" (Basle, 1557, 1559). Corroborating Francis Thynne, Leland's remarks on \"The Plowman's Tale\" are as follows: \"But the tale of Piers Plowman, which by the common consent of the learned is attributed to Chaucer as its true author, has been suppressed in each edition, because it vigorously inveighed against the bad morals of the priests\" (\"Commentarii de Scriptoribus Britannicis\" ed. Anthony Hall. Like Bale's Chaucer, Leland's Chaucer is a reformer and follower of Wycliffe.\n\nJohn Foxe praised \"The Plowman's Tale\" in his first (1563) and second (1570) editions of the immensely influential \"Acts and Monuments\". Foxe implies that Chaucer was a proto-Protestant Lollard and assumes he was the author of \"The Plowman's Tale\". (\"The Testament of Love\" and \"Jack Upland\" are also mentioned.) \"The Plowman's Tale\" was again printed by itself in 1606 by Anthony Wotton. The full title of Wotton's edition reads: \"The Plough-mans Tale. Shewing by the doctrine and liues of the Romish Clergie, that the pope is AntiChrist and they his Ministers. Written by Sir Geffrey Chaucer, Knight, amongst his Canterburie tales: and now set out apart from the rest, with a short exposition of the words and matters, for the capacitie and understanding of the simpler sort of Readers.\"\n\nEdmund Spenser's \"The Shepheardes Calender\" (1579) makes references to and borrows from \"The Plowman's Tale\" (attributing it to Chaucer), possibly \"Pierce the Plowman's Crede\", and, more obscurely, perhaps to \"Piers Plowman\". Gabriel Harvey's copy of the Speght 1598 edition of Chaucer's \"Works\" (BL Additional 42518) summarises \"The Plowman's Tale\" with the note \"Ecclesiastical abuses.\"\n\nSir William Vaughan's \"Golden Fleece\" (1626) presents Chaucer as Wycliffe's master and the author of \"The Plowman's Tale\", which is used to give lines to Duns Scotus and Chaucer in a debate between them that centres on the Pope (Is he Antichrist?) just as in the 1606 Wotton edition. This work promotes the colony at Newfoundland over against the vices of contemporary England. Famous historical figures, including Chaucer and Scotus, are brought to the court of Apollo to discuss English society. Apollo ultimately proclaims that all the problems that are exposed will be cured by the Golden Fleece, which is in Newfoundland.\n\nOther seventeenth-century citations of \"The Plowman's Tale\" are: Anthony Wotton's \"A Defense of Mr. Perkins Booke, Called a Reformed Catholike\" (1606), Simon Birkbeck's \"The Protestant's Evidence Taken Ovt of Good Records\" (1635), \"John Favour's Antiquitie Trivmphing Over Noveltie\" (1619), and John Milton's \"Of Reformation\" (1641) and \"An Apology Against a Pamphlet\" (1642).\n\nJohn Dryden remarks in \"Fables Ancient and Modern\" (1700) that Chaucer had \"some little Byas toward the Opinions of Wycliff . . . somewhat of which appears in the Tale of Piers Plowman [an interesting conflation of Langland and pseudo-Chaucer]: Yet I cannot blame him for inveighing so sharply against the Vices of the Clergy of his Age: Their Pride, their Ambition, their Pomp, their Avarice, their Worldly Interest, deserv'd the lashes which he gave them, both in that, and in most of his Canterbury Tales.\" The phrase \"inveighed . . . against the clergy\" is possibly derived from Leland; similar synopses appear in the editions of Chaucer's \"Works\" starting with Thynne. Another eighteenth-century commentator, John Dart, rejected \"The Plowman's Tale\" as Chaucer's but still agreed that Chaucer \"bitterly inveighs against the Priests and Fryars\", although he \"expresses his regard for the secular clergy who lived up to their profession\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14339252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14339252", "title": "Timeline of Jane Austen", "text": "Timeline of Jane Austen\n\nJane Austen lived her entire life as part of a family located socially and economically on the lower fringes of the English gentry. The Rev. George Austen and Cassandra Leigh, Jane Austen's parents, lived in Steventon, Hampshire, where Rev. Austen was the rector of the Anglican parish from 1765 until 1801. Jane Austen's immediate family was large and close-knit. She had six brothers—James, George, Charles, Francis, Henry, and Edward—and a beloved older sister, Cassandra. Austen's brother Edward was adopted by Thomas and Elizabeth Knight and eventually inherited their estates at Godmersham, Kent, and Chawton, Hampshire. In 1801, Rev. Austen retired from the ministry and moved his family to Bath, Somerset. He died in 1805 and for the next four years, Jane, Cassandra, and their mother lived first in rented quarters and then in Southampton where they shared a house with Frank Austen's family. During these unsettled years, they spent much time visiting various branches of the family. In 1809, Jane, Cassandra, and their mother moved permanently into a large \"cottage\" in Chawton village that was part of Edward's nearby estate. Austen lived at Chawton until she moved to Winchester for medical treatment shortly before her death in 1817.\n\nThroughout their adult lives, Jane and Cassandra were close to their cousin, Eliza de Feuillide, and to neighbors Mary and Martha Lloyd. Mary became the second wife of Austen's brother James, and Martha lived with the Austen family (beginning shortly after Rev. Austen's death in 1805) and married Austen's brother Frank late in life. Jane and Cassandra were also friends for many years with three sisters, Alethea, Elizabeth and Catherine Bigg, who lived at Manydown Park. Anne Brydges Lefroy, wife of Rev. George Lefroy, \"became Jane Austen's best-loved and admired mentor, the person she would always run to for advice and encouragement\" after the Lefroys moved to nearby Ashe in 1783. Her death in a riding accident in 1804 left Jane grief-stricken. \n\nAusten met, danced with, and perhaps fell in love with Thomas Lefroy during the Christmas holidays in 1795. However, Lefroy departed to begin his law studies in January 1796 and he and Jane never saw each other again. Samuel Blackall, a Fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, and a friend of Mrs. Anne Lefroy, was seriously interested in marrying Austen in 1797. Austen family tradition holds that Jane and an unnamed young clergyman fell in love while the Austen family visited the seaside at Sidmouth in the summer of 1801. Cassandra is said to have approved of this young man, but he died unexpectedly several months later, before he and Jane could be together again. Austen received her only proposal of marriage from Harris Bigg-Wither, brother of her friends Alethea, Elizabeth and Catherine Bigg, while visiting them at their home in December 1802. Austen at first accepted the proposal, then realized she had made a mistake and withdrew her acceptance the next day. Austen biographer Park Honan suggests that Jane may have received a proposal of marriage from Edward Bridges, a brother of Edward Austen's wife Elizabeth, in 1805, but biographer Claire Tomalin dismisses this claim.\n\nJane Austen was primarily educated at home by her father and older brothers and through her own reading. Her apprenticeship as a writer lasted from her teenage years until she was about thirty-five years old. During this period, she wrote three major novels and began a fourth. From 1811 until 1815, with the release of \"Sense and Sensibility\" (1811), \"Pride and Prejudice\" (1813), \"Mansfield Park\" (1814), and \"Emma\" (1815), she achieved success as a published writer. She wrote two additional novels, \"Northanger Abbey\" (originally written in 1798–1799 and revised later) and \"Persuasion\", both published after her death in 1817, and began a third (eventually titled \"Sanditon\"), but died before it could be completed. A product of 18th-century literary traditions, Austen's works were influenced most by those of renowned writer and critic Samuel Johnson and novelists Frances Burney and Maria Edgeworth. She considered poet and novelist Sir Walter Scott a rival. Family theatricals, which included plays by Richard Brinsley Sheridan and other 18th-century dramatists, shaped Austen's writing from an early age. William Cowper's poetry was a favourite as were the novels of Samuel Richardson. Austen's engagement with sensibility illustrates her debt to sentimental writers such as Laurence Sterne.\n\nAusten published all of her novels in the Regency period, during which King George III was declared permanently insane and his son was appointed as Prince Regent, and the novels are firmly rooted in the social context of the time. Throughout most of Austen's adult life, Britain was at war with revolutionary France. Fearing the spread of revolution and violence to Britain, the government tried to repress political radicals by suspending \"habeas corpus\" and passing the Seditious Meetings Act and the Treasonable Practices Act, known as the \"Gagging Acts\". Many reformers still held out hope for change in Britain during the 1790s, but by the first two decades of the 19th century, the French Revolutionary Wars and the Napoleonic Wars had exhausted the country and a deep conservative reaction had set in. While Austen's novels rarely explicitly touch on these events, she herself was personally affected by them, as two of her brothers served in the Royal Navy. When Napoleon was finally defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in 1815, Britain rejoiced. However, economic hardships in the 1810s increased the income disparity in the country and class conflict rose as the Industrial Revolution began.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2862649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2862649", "title": "Tombstone tourist", "text": "Tombstone tourist\n\nTombstone tourist (otherwise known as a \"cemetery enthusiast\", \"cemetery tourist\", \"grave hunter\", \"graver\", or \"taphophile\") describes an individual who has a passion for and enjoyment of cemeteries, epitaphs, gravestone rubbing, photography, art, and history of (famous) deaths. The term has been most notably used by author and biographer Scott Stanton as the title of his former website and book, \"The Tombstone Tourist: Musicians\" (2003), about the lives and gravesites of famous musicians.\n\nSome cemetery tourists are particularly interested in the historical aspects of cemeteries or the historical relevance of their inhabitants. La Recoleta Cemetery in Buenos Aires, Argentina and Zentralfriedhof (Central Cemetery) in Vienna, Austria carry a large array of famous inhabitants and their tombs, that make the cemeteries significant tourist destinations.\n\nGenealogy tourists make considerable effort to search out cemeteries and their records, to verify grave records and ancestral burial locations.\n\nFor centuries, people have made pilgrimages to the burial sites of religious icons and leaders. In fact, such was common during medieval times when people went to gravesites or to shrines to venerate saints. In China, the ancient tradition of Ancestor Worship also involved a veneration of dead relatives with visitations to shrines and gravesites.\n\nDuring the 19th century, garden cemeteries began to appear that encouraged visitors to stay and visit in the cemetery. Famous among these is the Père Lachaise cemetery in Paris, France, which continues to invite tourists to visit and see elaborate memorials not only to the world famous, but to lesser known individuals as well.\n\nCemetery records have also been a way of verifying genealogical data. Making gravestone rubbings was in practice for centuries as a way of providing this documentation and appreciating the carvings on the tombstones. Among genealogists, scouring cemeteries looking for the graves of dead ancestors is a common and longstanding practice with individuals often relying on limited and outdated information to find burial sites.\n\nThe appreciation of cemeteries has evolved along with science and technology. The Internet allows enthusiasts to visit cemeteries (and in some cases the gravesites of their own ancestors) on websites such as Find a Grave. There are also many websites and books devoted to people's personal explorations into cemeteries, particularly ones that contain the remains of famous individuals. There are also tour companies that organize and plan tours to famous cemeteries.\n\nThe hunting of graves has become digital as many cemetery transcribers and ancestor hunters have begun using GPS equipment to locate the area where a graveyard or gravesite is reputed to be.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10076158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10076158", "title": "Traditional story", "text": "Traditional story\n\nTraditional stories, or stories about traditions, differ from both fiction and nonfiction in that the importance of transmitting the story's worldview is generally understood to transcend an immediate need to establish its categorization as imaginary or factual. In the academic circles of literature, religion, history, and anthropology, categories of traditional story are important terminology to identify and interpret stories more precisely. Some stories belong in multiple categories and some stories do not fit into any category.\n\nAn \"anecdote\" is a short and amusing or interesting story about a biographical incident. It may be as brief as the setting and provocation of a \"bon mot\". An anecdote is always presented as based on a real incident involving actual persons, whether famous or not, usually in an identifiable place; whether authentic or not, it has verisimilitude or truthiness. Over time, modification in reuse may convert a particular anecdote to a fictional piece, one that is retold but is \"too good to be true\". Sometimes humorous, anecdotes are not jokes, because their primary purpose is not simply to evoke laughter, but to reveal a truth more general than the brief tale itself, or to delineate an institutional or character trait in such a light that it strikes in a flash of insight to the very essence. Novalis observed, \"An anecdote is a historical element — a historical molecule or epigram.\" A brief monologue beginning \"A man pops in a bar ...\" will be a joke. A brief monologue beginning \"Once J. Edgar Hoover popped in a bar ...\" will be an anecdote. An anecdote thus is closer to the tradition of the parable than the patently invented fable with its animal characters and generic human figures — but it is distinct from the parable in the historical specificity which it claims.\n\nAnecdotes are often of satirical nature. Under the totalitarian regime in the Soviet Union numerous political anecdotes circulating in society were the only way to reveal and denounce vices of the political system and its leaders. They made fun of such personalities as Lenin, Khrushchev, Brezhnev, and other Soviet leaders. In contemporary Russia there are many anecdotes about Vladimir Putin.\n\nThe word 'anecdote' (in Greek: \"unpublished\", literally \"not given out\") comes from Procopius of Caesarea, the biographer of Justinian I, who produced a work entitled (\"Anekdota\", variously translated as \"Unpublished Memoirs\" or \"Secret History\"), which is primarily a collection of short incidents from the private life of the Byzantine court. Gradually, the term \"anecdote\" came to be applied to any short tale utilized to emphasize or illustrate whatever point the author wished to make.\n\nAn \"apologue\" or \"apolog\" (from the Greek ἀπόλογος, a \"statement\" or \"account\") is a brief fable or allegorical story with pointed or exaggerated details, meant to serve as a pleasant vehicle for a moral doctrine or to convey a useful lesson without stating it explicitly. It is like a parable, except that it contains supernatural elements like a fable, often the personification of animals or plants. Unlike a fable, the moral is more important than the narrative details. As with the parable, the apologue is a tool of rhetorical argument used to convince or persuade.\n\nAmong the best known ancient and classical examples are that of Jotham in the Book of Judges (9:7-15); \"The Belly and its Members,\" by the patrician Agrippa Menenius Lanatus in the second book of Livy; and perhaps most famous of all, those of Aesop. Well-known modern examples of this literary form include George Orwell's \"Animal Farm\" and the Br'er Rabbit stories derived from African and Cherokee cultures and recorded and synthesized by Joel Chandler Harris. The term is applied more particularly to a story in which the actors or speakers are either various kinds of animals or are inanimate objects. An apologue is distinguished from a fable in that there is always some moral sense present in the former, which there need not be in the latter. An apologue is generally dramatic, and has been defined as \"a satire in action.\"\n\nAn apologue differs from a parable in several respects. A parable is equally an ingenious tale intended to correct manners, but it can be \"true\" in the sense that \"when this kind of actual event happens among men, this is what it means and this is how we should think about it\", while an apologue, with its introduction of animals and plants, to which it lends ideas, language and emotions, contains only metaphoric truth: \"when this kind of situation exists anywhere in the world, here is an interesting truth about it.\" The parable reaches heights to which the apologue cannot aspire, for the points in which animals and nature present analogies to man are principally those of his lower nature (hunger, desire, pain, fear, etc.), and the lessons taught by the apologue seldom therefore reach beyond prudential morality (keep yourself safe, find ease where you can, plan for the future, don't misbehave or you'll eventually be caught and punished), whereas the parable aims at representing the relations between man and existence or higher powers (know your role in the universe, behave well towards all you encounter, kindness and respect are of higher value than cruelty and slander). It finds its framework in the world of nature as it actually is, and not in any parody of it, and it exhibits real and not fanciful analogies. The apologue seizes on that which humans have in common with other creatures, and the parable on that which we have in common with a greater existence. Still, in spite of the difference of moral level, Martin Luther thought so highly of apologues as counselors of virtue that he edited and revised Aesop and wrote a characteristic preface to the volume. The parable is always blunt and devoid of subtlety, and requires no interpretation; the apologue by nature necessitates at least some degree of reflection and thought to achieve understanding, and in this sense it demands more of the listener than the parable does.\n\nThe origin of the apologue is extremely ancient and comes from the Middle East and its surrounding area (Persia, Asia Minor, Egypt, etc.), which is the Classical fatherland of everything connected with allegory, metaphor and imagination. Veiled truth was often necessary in the Middle East, particularly among the slaves, who dared not reveal their minds too openly. It is noteworthy that the two fathers of apologue in the West were slaves, namely Aesop and Phaedrus. La Fontaine in France; Gay and Dodsley in England; Gellert, Lessing and Hagedorn in Germany; Tomas de Iriarte in Spain, and Krylov in Russia, are leading modern writers of apologues.\n\nLength is not an essential matter in the definition of an apologue. Those of La Fontaine are often very short, as, for example, \"Le Coq et la Perle\" (\"The Cock and the Pearl\"). On the other hand, in the romances of Reynard the Fox we have medieval apologues arranged in cycles, and attaining epical dimensions. An Italian fabulist, Corti, is said to have developed an apologue of \"The Talking Animals\" reaching twenty-six cantos.\n\nLa Motte, writing at a time when this species of literature was universally admired, attributes its popularity to the fact that it manages and flatters amour-propre by inculcating virtue in an amusing manner without seeming to dictate or insist. This was the ordinary 18th-century view of the matter, but Rousseau contested the educational value of instruction given in this indirect form.\n\nA work by P. Soullé, \"La Fontaine et ses devanciers\" (1866), is a history of the apologue from the earliest times until its final triumph in France.\n\nMontesquieu wrote a propos his \"Persian Letters\" \"There are certain truths of which it is not enough to persuade, but which must be made to be \"felt\". Such are the moral verities. Perhaps a bit of history will be more touching than subtle philosophy.\"\n\nAs a literary genre of high culture, \"romance\" or \"chivalric romance\" is a style of heroic prose and verse narrative that was popular in the aristocratic circles of High Medieval and Early Modern Europe. They were fantastic stories about marvel-filled adventures, often of a knight errant portrayed as having heroic qualities, who goes on a quest. Popular literature also drew on themes of romance, but with ironic, satiric or burlesque intent. Romances reworked legends, fairy tales, and history to suit the readers' and hearers' tastes, but by \"c\".1600 they were out of fashion, and Miguel de Cervantes famously satirised them in his novel \"Don Quixote\". Still, the modern image of \"medieval\" is more influenced by the romance than by any other medieval genre, and the word \"medieval\" invokes knights, distressed damsels, dragons, and other romantic tropes.\n\nOriginally, romance literature was written in Old French, Anglo-Norman and Occitan, later, in English and German. During the early 13th century romances were increasingly written as prose. In later romances, particularly those of French origin, there is a marked tendency to emphasize themes of courtly love, such as faithfulness in adversity.\n\nDuring the Gothic Revival, from \"ca.\" 1800 the connotations of \"romance\" moved from the magical and fantastic to somewhat eerie \"Gothic\" adventure narratives.\n\nA \"creation myth\" is a symbolic narrative of how the world began and how people first came to inhabit it. They develop in oral traditions and therefore typically have multiple versions; and they are the most common form of myth, found throughout human culture. In the society in which it is told, a creation myth is usually regarded as conveying profound truths, metaphorically, symbolically and sometimes even in a historical or literal sense. They are commonly, although not always, considered \"cosmogonical myths\"—that is they describe the ordering of the cosmos from a state of chaos or amorphousness.\n\nCreation myths often share a number of features. They often are considered sacred accounts and can be found in nearly all known religious traditions. They are all stories with a plot and characters who are either deities, human-like figures, or animals, who often speak and transform easily. They are often set in a dim and nonspecific past, what historian of religion Mircea Eliade termed \"in illo tempore\" (\"at that time\"). Also, all creation myths speak to deeply meaningful questions held by the society that shares them, revealing of their central worldview and the framework for the self-identity of the culture and individual in a universal context.\n\nAn etiological myth, or origin myth, is a myth intended to explain the origins of cult practices, natural phenomena, proper names and the like, or create a mythic history for a place or family. For example, the name Delphi and its associated deity, \"Apollon Delphinios\", are explained in the Homeric Hymn which tells of how Apollo carried Cretans over the sea in the shape of a dolphin (') to make them his priests. While Delphi is actually related to the word ' (\"womb\"), many etiological myths are similarly based on folk etymology (the term \"Amazon\", for example). In the \"Aeneid\" (published circa 17 BC), Vergil claims the descent of Augustus Caesar's Julian clan from the hero Aeneas through his son Ascanius, also called Iulus. \nThe story of Prometheus' sacrifice-trick in Hesiod's \"Theogony\" relates how Prometheus tricked Zeus into choosing the bones and fat of the first sacrificial animal rather than the meat to justify why, after a sacrifice, the Greeks offered the bones wrapped in fat to the gods while keeping the meat for themselves.\n\nA \"fable\", as a literary genre, is a succinct fictional story, in prose or verse, that features animals, mythical creatures, plants, inanimate objects, or forces of nature that are anthropomorphized (given human qualities), and that illustrates a moral lesson (a \"moral\"), which may at the end be expressed explicitly in a pithy maxim.\n\nA fable differs from a parable in that the latter \"excludes\" animals, plants, inanimate objects, and forces of nature as actors that assume speech and other powers of humankind.\n\nUsage has not always been so clearly distinguished. In the King James Version of the New Testament, \"\"μύθος\" (\"mythos\"\") was rendered by the translators as \"fable\" in \"First\" and \"Second Timothy\", in \"Titus\" and in \"First Peter\".\n\nA \"factoid\" is a questionable or spurious (unverified, false, or fabricated) statement presented as a fact, but with no veracity. The word can also be used to describe a particularly insignificant or novel fact, in the absence of much relevant context. The word is defined by the \"Compact Oxford English Dictionary\" as \"an item of unreliable information that is repeated so often that it becomes accepted as fact\".\n\n\"Factoid\" was coined by Norman Mailer in his 1973 biography of Marilyn Monroe. Mailer described a factoid as \"facts which have no existence before appearing in a magazine or newspaper\", and created the word by combining the word \"fact\" and the ending \"-oid\" to mean \"similar but not the same\". The \"Washington Times\" described Mailer's new word as referring to \"something that looks like a fact, could be a fact, but in fact is not a fact\".\n\nFactoids may give rise to, or arise from, common misconceptions and urban legends.\n\nA fairy tale (pronounced /ˈfeəriˌteɪl/) is a type of short story that typically features folkloric fantasy characters, such as fairies, goblins, elves, trolls, dwarves, giants, mermaids or gnomes, and usually magic or enchantments. However, only a small number of the stories refer to fairies. The stories may nonetheless be distinguished from other folk narratives such as legends (which generally involve belief in the veracity of the events described) and explicitly moral tales, including beast fables.\n\nIn less technical contexts, the term is also used to describe something blessed with unusual happiness, as in \"fairy tale ending\" (a happy ending) or \"fairy tale romance\" (though not all fairy tales end happily). Colloquially, a \"fairy tale\" or \"fairy story\" can also mean any far-fetched story or tall tale.\n\nIn cultures where demons and witches are perceived as real, fairy tales may merge into legends, where the narrative is perceived both by teller and hearers as being grounded in historical truth. However, unlike legends and epics, they usually do not contain more than superficial references to religion and actual places, people, and events; they take place once upon a time rather than in actual times.\n\nFairy tales are found in oral and in literary form. The history of the fairy tale is particularly difficult to trace because only the literary forms can survive. Still, the evidence of literary works at least indicates that fairy tales have existed for thousands of years, although not perhaps recognized as a genre; the name \"fairy tale\" was first ascribed to them by Madame d'Aulnoy in the late 17th century. Many of today's fairy tales have evolved from centuries-old stories that have appeared, with variations, in multiple cultures around the world. Fairy tales, and works derived from fairy tales, are still written today.\n\nThe older fairy tales were intended for an audience of adults, as well as children, but they were associated with children as early as the writings of the \"précieuses\"; the Brothers Grimm titled their collection \"Children's and Household Tales\", and the link with children has only grown stronger with time.\n\nFolklorists have classified fairy tales in various ways. The Aarne-Thompson classification system and the morphological analysis of Vladimir Propp are among the most notable. Other folklorists have interpreted the tales' significance, but no school has been definitively established for the meaning of the tales.\n\nA fairy tale with a tragic rather a happy ending is called anti-fairy tale.\n\n\"Folklore\" (or \"lore\") consists of legends, music, oral history, proverbs, jokes, popular beliefs, fairy tales, stories, tall tales, and customs that are the traditions of a culture, subculture, or group. It is also the set of practices through which those expressive genres are shared. The study of folklore is sometimes called folkloristics. The word 'folklore' was first used by the English antiquarian William Thoms in a letter published in the London journal \"The Athenaeum\" in 1846. In usage, there is a continuum between folklore and mythology. Stith Thompson made a major attempt to index the motifs of both folklore and mythology, providing an outline into which new motifs can be placed, and scholars can keep track of all older motifs.\n\nFolklore can be divided into four areas of study: artifact (such as voodoo dolls), describable and transmissible entity (oral tradition), culture, and behavior (rituals). These areas do not stand alone, however, as often a particular item or element may fit into more than one of these areas.\n\n\"Folkloristics\" is the term preferred by academic folklorists for the formal, academic discipline devoted to the study of folklore. The term itself derives from the nineteenth-century German designation \"folkloristik\" (i.e., folklore). Ultimately, the term \"folkloristics\" is used to distinguish between the materials studied, folklore, and the study of folklore, folkloristics. In scholarly usage, \"folkloristics\" represents an emphasis on the contemporary, social aspects of expressive culture, in contrast to the more literary or historical study of cultural texts.\n\nA \"ghost story\" may be any piece of fiction, or drama, or an account of an experience, that includes a ghost, or simply takes as a premise the possibility of ghosts or characters' belief in them. Colloquially, the term can refer to any kind of scary story. In a narrower sense, the ghost story has been developed as a short story format, within genre fiction. It is a form of supernatural fiction and specifically of weird fiction, and is often a horror story. While ghost stories are often explicitly meant to be scary, they have been written to serve all sorts of purposes, from comedy to morality tales. Ghosts often appear in the narrative as sentinels or prophets of things to come. Whatever their uses, the ghost story is in some format present in all cultures around the world, and may be passed down orally or in written form.\n\nA \"joke\" is something spoken, written, or done with humorous intention. Jokes may have many different forms, e.g., a single word or a gesture (considered in a particular context), a question-answer, or a whole short story. The word \"joke\" has a number of synonyms.\n\nTo achieve their end, jokes may employ irony, sarcasm, word play and other devices. Jokes may have a punch line, i.e. an ending to make it humorous.\n\nA practical joke or prank differs from a spoken one in that the major component of the humour is physical rather than verbal (for example placing salt in the sugar bowl).\n\nA \"legend\" (Latin, \"legenda\", \"things to be read\") is a narrative of human actions that are perceived both by teller and listeners to take place within human history and to possess certain qualities that give the tale verisimilitude. Legend, for its active and passive participants includes no happenings that are outside the realm of \"possibility\", defined by a highly flexible set of parameters, which may include miracles that are perceived as actually having happened, within the specific tradition of indoctrination where the legend arises, and within which it may be transformed over time, in order to keep it fresh and vital, and realistic.\n\nThe Brothers Grimm defined legend as folktale historically grounded. A modern folklorist's professional definition of \"legend\" was proposed by Timothy R. Tangherlini in 1990:\nLegend, typically, is a short (mono-) episodic, traditional, highly ecotypified historicized narrative performed in a conversational mode, reflecting on a psychological level a symbolic representation of folk belief and collective experiences and serving as a reaffirmation of commonly held values of the group to whose tradition it belongs.\"\n\nAn \"origin myth\" is a myth that purports to describe the origin of some feature of the natural or social world. One type of origin myth is the cosmogonic myth, which describes the creation of the world. However, many cultures have stories set after the cosmogonic myth, which describe the origin of natural phenomena and human institutions within a preexisting universe.\n\nIn Western classical scholarship, the word \"aition\" (from the Ancient Greek αἴτιον, \"cause\") is sometimes used for a myth that explains an origin, particularly how an object or custom came into existence.\n\nThe term \"mythology\" can refer either to the \"study\" of myths, or to a \"body or collection\" of myths. As examples, comparative mythology is the study of connections between myths from different cultures, whereas Greek mythology is the body of myths from ancient Greece. In the field of folkloristics, a \"myth\" is defined as a sacred narrative explaining how the world and humankind came to be in their present form and how customs, institutions and taboos were established. Many scholars in other fields use the term \"myth\" in somewhat different ways. In a very broad sense, the word can refer to any story originating within traditions.\n\n\"Oral tradition\" and \"oral lore\" is cultural material and tradition transmitted orally from one generation to another. The messages or testimony are verbally transmitted in speech or song and may take the form, for example, of folktales, sayings, ballads, songs, or chants. In this way, it is possible for a society to transmit oral history, oral literature, oral law and other knowledges across generations without a writing system.\n\nA narrower definition of oral tradition is sometimes appropriate. Sociologists might also emphasize a requirement that the material is held in common by a group of people, over several generations, and might distinguish oral tradition from testimony or oral history. In a general sense, \"oral tradition\" refers to the transmission of cultural material through vocal utterance, and was long held to be a key descriptor of folklore (a criterion no longer rigidly held by all folklorists). As an academic discipline, it refers both to a set of objects of study and a method by which they are studied—the method may be called variously \"oral traditional theory\", \"the theory of Oral-Formulaic Composition\" and the \"Parry-Lord theory\" (after two of its founders; see below) The study of oral tradition is distinct from the academic discipline of oral history, which is the recording of personal memories and histories of those who experienced historical eras or events. It is also distinct from the study of orality, which can be defined as thought and its verbal expression in societies where the technologies of literacy (especially writing and print) are unfamiliar to most of the population.\n\nA \"parable\" is a succinct story, in prose or verse, that illustrates one or more moral, religious, instructive, or normative principles or lessons. It differs from a fable in that fables use animals, plants, inanimate objects, and forces of nature as actors that assume speech and other powers of humankind, while parables generally feature human characters. It is a type of analogy.\n\nSome scholars of the Canonical gospels and the New Testament apply the term \"parable\" only to the parables of Jesus, though that is not a common restriction of the term. Parables such as \"The Prodigal Son\" are central to Jesus' teaching method in both the canonical narratives and the apocrypha.\n\nA \"political myth\" is an ideological explanation for a political phenomenon that is believed by a social group.\n\nIn 1975, Henry Tudor defined it in \"Political Myth\" published by Macmillan. He said \n\nIn 2001, Christopher G. Flood described a working definition of a political myth as \n\nA \"tall tale\" is a story with unbelievable elements, related as if it were true and factual. Some such stories are exaggerations of actual events, for example fish stories such as, \"That fish was so big, why, I tell ya, it nearly sank the boat when I pulled it in!\" Other tall tales are completely fictional tales set in a familiar setting, such as the European countryside, the American Old West, the Canadian Northwest, or the beginning of the Industrial Revolution.\n\nTall tales are often told so as to make the narrator seem to have been a part of the story. They are usually humorous or good-natured. The line between myth and tall tale is distinguished primarily by age; many myths exaggerate the exploits of their heroes, but in tall tales the exaggeration looms large, to the extent of becoming the whole of the story.\n\nAn \"urban legend\", \"urban myth\", \"urban tale\", or \"contemporary legend\", is a form of modern folklore consisting of stories that may or may not have been believed by their tellers to be true. As with all folklore and mythology, the designation suggests nothing about the story's veracity, but merely that it is in circulation, exhibits variation over time, and carries some significance that motivates the community in preserving and propagating it.\n\nDespite its name, an urban legend does not necessarily originate in an urban area. Rather, the term is used to differentiate modern legend from traditional folklore in pre-industrial times. For this reason, sociologists and folklorists prefer the term \"contemporary legend\".\n\nUrban legends are sometimes repeated in news stories and, in recent years, distributed by e-mail. People frequently allege that such tales happened to a \"friend of a friend\"; so often, in fact, that \"friend of a friend\" (\"FOAF\") has become a commonly used term when recounting this type of story.\n\nSome urban legends have passed through the years with only minor changes to suit regional variations. One example is the story of a woman killed by spiders nesting in her elaborate hairdo. More recent legends tend to reflect modern circumstances, like the story of people ambushed, anesthetized, and waking up minus one kidney, which was surgically removed for transplantation (a story which folklorists refer to as \"The Kidney Heist\").\n"}
{"id": "10878833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10878833", "title": "Variation (linguistics)", "text": "Variation (linguistics)\n\nVariation is a characteristic of language: there is more than one way of saying the same thing. Speakers may vary pronunciation (accent), word choice (lexicon), or morphology and syntax (sometimes called \"grammar\"). But while the diversity of variation is great, there seem to be boundaries on variation – speakers do not generally make drastic alterations in sentence word order or use novel sounds that are completely foreign to the language being spoken. Language variation does not equate with language ungrammaticality, but speakers are still (often unconsciously) sensitive to what is and is not possible in their native tongue.\n\nVariationists study how a language changes by observing it. This is accomplished by looking at authentic data. For example, variation is studied by looking at linguistic and social environments, then the data is analyzed as the change occurs. Variation in research programs must be malleable due to the nature of language itself. This is because language is also fluid in transition and does not shift from one state to another instantaneously. \n\nLanguage variation is a core concept in sociolinguistics. Sociolinguists investigate whether this linguistic variation can be attributed to differences in the \"social\" characteristics of the speakers using the language, but also investigate whether elements of the surrounding \"linguistic\" context promote or inhibit the usage of certain structures.\n\nStudies of language variation and its correlation with sociological categories, such as William Labov's 1963 paper \"The social motivation of a sound change,\" led to the foundation of sociolinguistics as a subfield of linguistics. Although contemporary sociolinguistics includes other topics, language variation and change remains an important issue at the heart of the field.\n\nStudies in the field of sociolinguistics typically take a sample population and interview them, assessing the realisation of certain sociolinguistic variables. Labov specifies the ideal sociolinguistic variable to\nPhonetic variables tend to meet these criteria and are often used, as are morphosyntactic variables, morphophonological variables, and, more rarely, lexical variables. Examples for phonetic variables are: the frequency of the glottal stop, the height or backness of a vowel or the realisation of word-endings. An example of a morphosyntactic variable is the frequency of negative concord (known colloquially as a double negative). Two well-known and frequently studied morphophonological variables are T/D deletion, the optional deletion of the sound /t/ or /d/ at the end of a word, as in \"I kep' walking\" (Wolfram 1969; Labov et al. 1968); and the ING variable, the optional pronunciation of \"-ing\" at the end of a word as \"-in\"', as in \"I kept walkin'\" (e.g. Fisher 1958; Labov 1966/1982; Trudgill 1974).\n\nAnalyzing sociolinguistic variation often involves the use of statistical programs to handle its multi-variable nature. One essential part of the methodology is to count up the number of tokens of a particular variant and compare it to the number of times the variant \"could have\" occurred. This is called the \"Principle of Accountability\" in Tagliamonte (2012). Comparing the tokens to the total number of words in a corpus or comparing one corpus to another leads to erroneous results. This count of the possible occurrences can be difficult at times because some variants alternate with zero (such as relative pronouns \"that\", \"who\", and zero).\n\nThere are several different types of age-based variation one may see within a population. They are: vernacular of a subgroup with membership typically characterized by a specific age range, age-graded variation, and indications of linguistic change in progress.\n\nOne example of subgroup vernacular is the speech of street youth. Just as street youth dress differently from the \"norm\", they also often have their own \"language\". The reasons for this are the following: (1) To enhance their own cultural identity (2) To identify with each other, (3) To exclude others, and (4) To invoke feelings of fear or admiration from the outside world. Strictly speaking, this is not truly age-based, since it does not apply to all individuals of that age bracket within the community. Age-graded variation is a stable variation which varies within a population based on age. That is, speakers of a particular age will use a specific linguistic form in successive generations. This is relatively rare. J.K. Chambers cites an example from southern Ontario, Canada where the name of the letter 'Z' varies. Most of the English-speaking world pronounces it 'zed'; however, in the United States, it is pronounced 'zee'. A linguistic survey found that in 1979 two-thirds of the 12-year-olds in Toronto ended the recitation of the alphabet with the letter 'zee' where only 8% of the adults did so. Then in 1991, (when those 12-year-olds were in their mid-20s) a survey showed only 39% of the 20- to 25-year-olds used 'zee'. In fact, the survey showed that only 12% of those over 30 used the form 'zee'. This is hypothesized to be tied to an American children's song frequently used to teach the alphabet. In this song, the rhyme scheme matches the letter Z with V 'vee', prompting the use of the American pronunciation. As the individual grows older, this marked form 'zee' is dropped in favor of the standard form 'zed'.\n\nPeople tend to use linguistic forms that were prevalent when they reached adulthood. So, in the case of linguistic change in progress, one would expect to see variation over a broader range of ages. William Bright provides an example taken from American English, where in certain parts of the country there is an ongoing merger of the vowel sounds in such pairs of words as 'caught' and 'cot'. This merger used to be distinctive of the western United States, but since World War II, it has developed independently in two other regions: western Pennsylvania and southwestward, and the New England coast from Boston north. Examining the speech across several generations of a single family, one would find the grandparents' generation would never or rarely merge these two vowel sounds; their children's generation may on occasion, particularly in quick or informal speech; while their grandchildren's generation would merge these two vowels uniformly. This is the basis of the apparent-time hypothesis where age-based variation is taken as an indication of linguistic change in progress.\n\nA commonly studied source of variation is regional dialects. Dialectology studies variations in language based primarily on geographic distribution and their associated features. Sociolinguists concerned with grammatical and phonological features that correspond to regional areas are often called dialectologists.\n\nMen and women, on average, tend to use slightly different language styles. These differences tend to be quantitative rather than qualitative. That is, to say that women use a particular speaking style more than men do is akin to saying that men are taller than women (i.e., men are on average taller than women, but some women are taller than some men).\n\nThe initial identification of a \"women's register\" was by Robin Lakoff in 1975, who argued that the style of language served to maintain women's (inferior) role in society (\"female deficit approach\"). A later refinement of this argument was that gender differences in language reflected a power difference (\"dominance theory\"). However, both these perspectives have the language style of men as normative, implying that women's style is inferior.\n\nMore recently, Deborah Tannen has compared gender differences in language as more similar to 'cultural' differences (\"cultural difference approach\"). Comparing conversational goals, she argued that men have a \"report\" style, aiming to communicate factual information, whereas women have a \"rapport\" style, more concerned with building and maintaining relationships.\n\nPeople tend to accommodate their language towards the style of the person they are interacting with. Thus, in a mixed-gender group, gender differences tend to be less pronounced. A similarly important observation is that this accommodation is usually towards the language style, not the gender of the person . That is, a polite and empathic male will tend to be accommodated to on the basis of their being polite and empathic, rather than their being male.\n\nAfrican American English (AAE)\n\nCommunities of African Americans and Whites have been popular groups with particular attention to their linguistic variation. This variation helps inform much about the origins and evolution of other varieties, especially African American English. Understanding the sociohistorical background of the settlement of the southern colonies is a crucial step in understanding the origins of AAE. African American English and Southern White American English both had origins in the British settler dialects introduced into the South within the colonial period (1607 and 1776). With time these two varieties continued to evolve and influences one another. However, research on African American English did not become continuously and overwhelming explored until the 1960s and 1970s with many linguists including Robbins Burling, Ralph Fasold, Joey Dillard, William Labov, Williams Stewart, Geneva Smitherman, and Walt Wolfram to name a few. While African American English is still not considered an official variety by the dominant culture and educational system in the United States, it is a legitimate and verified variety by many scholars. The Ebonics Controversy help to influence the way America thinks about African American English. In December 1996 the Ebonics Controversy erupted from the Oakland School Board's resolution to identify Ebonics as the first language of African American students and take it into account in their Language Arts lessons. There have been many different perspectives to engaging with African American English as a variety. Although there is some evidence that linguistically sensitive approaches are helpful, there are gaps in and questions about these approaches which require new research. However, AAE is a rule-governed, valid language variety that adequately and uniquely expresses the collective experiences of its speakers.\n\nAsian English\n\nVery little attention has been paid to Asian American speech despite the rise in Asian American immigrants to the United States. Even though Asian Americans are perceived as a distinct racial group, their speech has not been categorized as an individualized ethnolect. Asian Americans in particular have been seen as the “model minority”, in which they are stereotyped as being comparable to whites in academic achievement and economic success. However, this assumption neglects Asian Americans who are less fortunate and may experience poverty. Furthermore, the term “Asian Americans” cover a vast diaspora of individuals from various national and ethnic origins (Koreans, Chinese, Japanese, Vietnamese, Cambodian, Laotian, Hmong, etc.). However, this is a group in which “the dominant ideology treats as a single entity\". The homogenization of Asian Americans is problematic due to their distinct cultural and national backgrounds as well as history of immigration to the U.S. Therefore, research on Asian American speech is often homogenized because of racial homogenization. Research on Asian Americans in particular have noted the variation of Asian American speech. Affluent Vietnamese Americans and middle-class Japanese Americans are shown to align to more standard English varieties, while Laotions and other Southeast Asians have more vernacular speech patterns. Ito (2010) looked at bilingual Hmong Americans in Wisconsin and found that local features like the low-back vowel merger did not seem to play a noticeable role in Hmong English. Despite the variety of ethnic background, Asian American speech shows distinctiveness in perception tests. Michael Newman and Angela Wu found that in perception tests, participants regardless of ethnic background were found to recognize Asian American, indexed by a set of distinctive features. While the amount of sound change studies are dearth, when they are addressed, it is focused mainly on “language maintenance issues or code switching”, and rarely feature linguistic portraits of Asian Americans who have grown up within the diverse atlas of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312170", "title": "Viable system model", "text": "Viable system model\n\nThe viable system model (VSM) is a model of the organisational structure of any autonomous system capable of producing itself. A viable system is any system organised in such a way as to meet the demands of surviving in the changing environment. One of the prime features of systems that survive is that they are adaptable. The VSM expresses a model for a viable system, which is an abstracted cybernetic (regulation theory) description that is claimed to be applicable to any organisation that is a viable system and capable of autonomy.\n\nThe model was developed by operations research theorist and cybernetician Stafford Beer in his book \"Brain of the Firm\" (1972). Together with Beer's earlier works on cybernetics applied to management, this book effectively founded management cybernetics.\n\nThe first thing to note about the cybernetic theory of organizations encapsulated in the VSM is that viable systems are recursive; viable systems contain viable systems that can be modeled using an identical cybernetic description as the higher (and lower) level systems in the containment hierarchy (Beer expresses this property of viable systems as \"cybernetic isomorphism\").\nA development of this model has originated the theoretical proposal called viable systems approach.\nHere we give a brief introduction to the cybernetic description of the organization encapsulated in a single level of the VSM.\n\nA viable system is composed of five interacting subsystems which may be mapped onto aspects of organizational structure. In broad terms Systems 1–3. are concerned with the 'here and now' of the organization's operations, System 4 is concerned with the 'there and then' – strategical responses to the effects of external, environmental and future demands on the organization. System 5 is concerned with balancing the 'here and now' and the 'there and then' to give policy directives which maintain the organization as a viable entity.\nIn addition to the subsystems that make up the first level of recursion, the environment is represented in the model. The presence of the environment in the model is necessary as the domain of action of the system and without it there is no way in the model to contextualize or ground the internal interactions of the organization.\n\n\"Algedonic alerts\" (from the Greek αλγος, pain and ηδος, pleasure) are alarms and rewards that escalate through the levels of recursion when actual performance fails or exceeds capability, typically after a timeout.\n\nThe model is derived from the architecture of the brain and nervous system. Systems 3-2-1 are identified with the ancient brain or autonomic nervous system. System 4 embodies cognition and conversation. System 5, the higher brain functions, include introspection and decision making.\n\nIn \"Heart of Enterprise\" a companion volume to \"Brain...\", Beer applies Ashby's concept of (Requisite) Variety: the number of possible states of a system or of an element of the system. There are two aphorisms that permit observers to calculate Variety; four Principles of Organization; the Recursive System Theorem; three Axioms of Management and a Law of Cohesion. These rules ensure the Requisite Variety condition is satisfied, in effect that resources are matched to requirement.\n\nThese aphorisms are:\n\n\nThese principles are:\n\nThis theorem states:\n\nThese axioms are:\n\nThis law ('something invariant in nature') states:\n\nIn \"Brain of the Firm\" (p. 163) Beer describes a triple vector to characterize activity in a System 1. The components are:\n\nBeer adds \"It would help a lot to fix these definitions clearly in the mind.\" System 4's job is essentially to realize potential. He then defines \nConsider the management of a process with cash earnings or savings for a company or government: \nThese methods (also known as normalisations) can be similarly applied in general e.g. to hours worked in the performance of tasks or products in a production process of some kind.\n\nWhen actuality deviates from capability, because someone did something well or something badly, an algedonic alert is sent to management. If corrective action, adoption of a good technique or correction of an error, is not taken in a timely manner the alert is escalated. Because the criteria are applied in an ordered hierarchy the management itself need not be, but the routine response functions must be ordered to reflect best known heuristic practice. These heuristics are constantly monitored for improvement by the organization's System 4s.\n\nPay structures reflect these constraints on performance when capability or potential is realized with, for example, productivity bonuses, stakeholder agreements and intellectual property rights.\n\nIn ascending the recursions of the viable system the context of each autonomous 5-4-3-2 metasystem enlarges and acquires more variety.\n\nThis defines a metalanguage stack of increasing capability to resolve undecidability in the autonomous lower levels. If someone near process level needs to innovate to achieve potential, or restore capability, help can be secured from management of higher variety.\n\nAn algedonic alert, sent when actuality deviates by some statistically significant amount from capability, makes this process automatic.\n\nThe notion of adding more variety or states to resolve ambiguity or undecidability (also known as the decision problem) is the subject of Chaitin's metamathematical conjecture algorithmic information theory and provides a potentially rigorous theoretical basis for a general management heuristic. If a process is not producing the agreed product more information, if applicable, will correct this, resolve ambiguity, conflict or undecidability.\n\nIn \"Platform for Change\" (Beer 1975) the thesis is developed via a collection of papers to learned bodies, including UK Police and Hospitals, to produce a visualization of the \"Total System\". Here a \"Relevant ethic\" evolves from \"Experimental ethics\" and the \"Ethic with a busted gut\" to produce a sustainable earth with reformed \"old institutions\" becoming \"new institutions\" driven by approval (eudemonic criteria \"Questions of Metric\" in Platform... pp 163– 179) from the \"software milieu\" while culture adopts the systems approach and \"Homo faber\" (man the maker) becomes \"Homo Gubernator\" (self-steering).\n\nIn applying the VSM variety measures are used to match people, machines and money to jobs that produce products or services. In a set of processes some jobs are done by one person. Some are done by many and often many processes are done by the same person. Throughout the working day a participant, in completing a task, may find the focus shifts between internal and external Systems 1–5 from moment to moment.\n\nThe choices, or decisions discriminated, and their cost (or effort) defines the variety and hence resources needed for the job. The processes (Systems 1) are operationally managed by System 3 by monitoring performance and assuring (System 2) the flow of product between System 1s and out to users.\n\nSystem 3 is able to audit (via 3*) past performance so \"bad times\" for production can be compared to \"good times\". If things go wrong and levels of risk increase the System 3 asks for help or puts it to colleagues for a remedy. This is the pain of an algedonic alert, which can be automatic when performance fails to achieve capability targets. The autonomic 3–2–1 homeostatic loop's problem is absorbed for solution within the autonomy of its metasystem. Development (the System 4 role of research and marketing) is asked for recommendations.\n\nIf more resources are required System 5 has to make the decision on which is the best option from System 4. Escalation to higher management (up the metalinguistic levels of recursion) will be needed if the remedy requires more resources than the current level of capability or variety can sustain. The pleasure of an algedonic alert which are performance improving innovations can also be handled in this way.\n\nIn a small business all these functions might be done by one person or shared between the participants. In larger enterprises roles can differentiate and become more specialized emphasizing one or more aspects of the VSM. Local conditions, the environment and nature of the service or product, determines where warehousing, sales, advertising, promotion, dispatch, taxation, finance, salaries etc., fit into this picture. Not all enterprises charge for their transactions (e.g. some schools and medical services, policing) and voluntary staff may not be paid. Advertising or shipping might not be part of the business or they might be the principal activity. Whatever the circumstances, all enterprises are required to be useful to their users if they are to remain viable. For all participants the central question remains: \"Do I do what I always do for this transaction or do I innovate?\" It is embodied in the calls on System 4. The VSM describes the constraints: a knowledge of past performance and how it may be improved.\n\nBeer dedicated \"Brain of the Firm\" to his colleagues past and present with the words \"absolutum obsoletum\" which he translated as \"If it works it’s out of date\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11326804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11326804", "title": "Victor Raskin", "text": "Victor Raskin\n\nVictor Raskin (born April 17, 1944) is a distinguished professor of linguistics at Purdue University. He is the author of \"Semantic Mechanisms of Humor\" and \"Ontological Semantics\" and founding editor (now editor-at-large) of \"Humor\", the journal for the International Society for Humor Studies. \n\nHe is an associate director and founding faculty member of CERIAS at Purdue University along with Gene Spafford and Mikhail Atallah.\n\nVictor Raskin was born in Irbit, U.S.S.R. (now the Russian Federation). He has been married to Marina Bergelson since 1965; his daughter Sarah was born in 1982. He and his wife emigrated from the U.S.S.R. to Israel in 1973, and have been Israeli citizens since 1973. They moved to the United States in 1978, became permanent residents of the United States in 1979, and became U.S. citizens in 1984.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37217735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37217735", "title": "Women's oversized fashion in the United States since the 1920s", "text": "Women's oversized fashion in the United States since the 1920s\n\nOversized fashion, distinct from plus-sized fashion, consists of clothing and other accessories that are larger than normal and reflect some sort of attitude, message, or trend of the period at hand. While oversized fashion trends from the 1920s to the turn of the century vary from decade to decade, there are many overarching themes that have been expressed during the past one hundred or so years. Masculinity, for example, has played a large role in many of the underlying communications of the fashions, although virility is manifested differently in the clothing depending on the era. Oversized fashion production, furthermore, runs largely parallel with the states of the American and global economies. Modernly, oversized fashion has taken on a new form - primarily in the realm of oversized accessories.\n\nThe 1920s were marked by a post-war aesthetic. After World War I, the fashion world experienced a great switch: from tight corsets and hobble skirts—to shapeless, oversized, and sparsely decorated garments. Women began to wear more comfortable fashions, including blousy skirts and trousers. Further, this era gave birth to sportswear fashion. Sportswear, previously recognized as America’s main contribution to fashion, consisted of a casual more relaxed style. Coco Chanel, known as the first modern dressmaker, made one of the greatest contributions to style in the 1920s: the two-piece dress. She created two-piece dresses out of jersey (fabric), a comfortable stretchy fabric. The American public was receptive, embracing this relaxed style, which was perfect for the active woman on the go. The combination of these new ideas yielded this loosely fitted, modernized style.\n\nThe \"boyish figure\", moreover, became a prevalent trends of the era, with shapeless silhouettes and dropped waistlines giving a more masculine look to the female figure. The emphasis on a flattened chest revolutionized the construction of undergarments. Along with this new silhouette, 1920s fashions were further modernized by the coming of a new generation of sewing-machines, each with an individual electric motor, enabling designers to create more oversized fashions, while saving time and resources.\n\nIn contrast to the \"boyish figure\" were the types of hats and accessories women wore in \"the roaring twenties\". Flapper dresses were juxtaposed with oversized hats, often trimmed with large bows, feathers, ribbons, or sequins. Furthermore, bold headbands were often worn to compliment women's customarily shorter hair lengths. Since a lot of women's fashion from this decade were quite masculine in style, many women adorned them with accessories that were rather feminine.\n\nMusic also had an influence in the ways in which fashions evolved. The Jazz Age saw the popularization of flaps in dresses; and stars such as the entertainer Josephine Baker became known for their semi-translucent flapper frocks.\n\nThe 1930s started in depression and ended with the onset of World War II. With rising unemployment and despair, no industry was left unaffected. In the fashion industry, designers cut their prices and produced new lines of ready-to-wear clothes, along with clothing made of more economical and washable fabrics, such as rayon and nylon. For example, Coco Chanel showed a collection of evening dresses made of cotton and sold dresses reduced by 50%. The fashions of the 1930s were stylish and elegant, with flowing lines and Paris-based coutures.\n\nSince many women could not afford to update their wardrobes, women changed their look by resorting to alterations to exemplify the oversized fashion of the 1930s. They used lengthening bands of contrasting fabric and added fur to their hems. This inventive way to put together new articles of clothing gave birth to the \"Feedsack Dress\"; constructed from the material of a sack of animal feed, these frocks were typically cut similarly to shift dresses. This A-line cuts were boxy and contrasted the slinky and sensual bias-cut dresses that became famous during the same era for their ability to cover the woman's body while clinging to each curve. Furthermore, material was added to collars and sleeves. Another trend rising from the 1930s was the \"Banjo Sleeve\", created by sewing two rectangular pieces of fabric with the top seam only sewn halfway to allow the arm to flow out. The boxy shape was oversized and blousy. As the era progressed, skirts that flared out fell to the bottom of the calf and sleeves were loosely tied as they fell from the elbow to wrist.\n\nFrom the harsh economic conditions of the time came about the glamorous 1930s in film, and the glamorous clothing worn seen on the screen grew in popularity. Dresses constructed from Chiffon fabric were rather loose-fitting as they flew away from the body, and embodied the elegance that was maintained throughout the 1930s despite the economic struggles.\n\nDuring the first half of the 1940s, many clothing-related commodities were in short supply due to World War II; the United States Government relinquished numerous products for utilization in warfare. Leather, for example, was much used in the uniforms of American servicemen—so the material, to a large extent, went out of use in mainstream fashion. As a consequence, oversized fashion utilizing excessive amounts of material was not in style.\n\nDesigners such as Cristóbal Balenciaga, Digby Morton, and Norman Hartnell, however, utilized oversized fashion practices in their early 1940s collections to manifest the consequential happenings of the war. While men were abroad taking up arms, many women took on their positions in factories and offices. Accordingly, women’s fashion became more masculine. Wide-legged slacks and pronounced shoulder pads became all the rage, and most American women embraced the virile style.\n\nNot until the second half of the decade, though, with the introduction of Dior’s “New Look,” was oversized fashion widely put to use. Dior’s “New Look,” which first grew in popularity in Europe, featured full skirts that reached the mid-calves. When Dior initially set in motion this new style, the fashion house received a lot of criticism. Sir Stafford Cripps, then President of the Britain’s Board of Trade, was quoted as saying that the “New Look” was “utterly stupid” and an enormous waste of labor and materials. He was not the only one opposed to the excessive usage of material. In the U.S, legislation was passed that restricted yardage in fabric for clothing, under a policy entitled L-85.\n\nMany American citizens resisted the new legislation, with groups being formed such as the “A Little Below the Knee Club” in Texas. However, in the U.S, Dior’s \"New Look\" was also shaping the trends of the time. Designer Claire McCardell, influenced by Parisian design, created the monastic dress, in jersey, featuring a criss-cross string belt at midriff and a draped full skirt. A few years later, however, once World War II ended, the “New Look” and its oversized flair was relished both within the fashion world and the consumer market.\n\nThe post-war era of the 1950s brought a change to the family dynamic as well as to the fashion world. In 1947, Christian Dior launched as the first collection from his fashion house his \"Corelle line\", which featured oversized designs. The \"Corelle line\" became the look of the decade, ushering femininity, luxury and grace into the era, and making a great impacct on the female silhouette. This change implemented by Christian Dior dominated the decade.\n\nClothes transformed from boxy styles, with square shoulders, to feminine and luxurious, with soft shoulder lines, corseted waists, round padded hips, and long skirts, leading to the knee-length \"sack\" dress. The knee-length skirts and dresses were the most oversized items of this 1950s. The introduction of new fabrics, including Terylene, Orlon, Banlon, Acrilan and Poplin, allowed for new fashion styles to be both created and introduced. Among these were the \"wash-and-wear\" sweater, the permanently pleated skirt, and the \"drip-dry\" skirt. Skirts of this era known as circle skirts were supported by layers of petticoats, creating a circular look that accentuated the waist line. Essentially, the petticoat reinforced the femininity of this period.\n\nThe 1950s woman also tended to be influenced by the fashions worn by movie stars such as Marilyn Monroe and Audrey Hepburn. Hepburn in her roles in various movies such as \"Roman Holiday\" famously wore an oversized skirt that accentuated her waist, together with a tighter shirt.\n\nThe look of the 1960s was in marked contrast to the “New Look” developed in the end of the 1940s that heavily influenced trends of the 1950s with femininity and sensuality. The look of the 1960s reflected the main issue of that time: Civil Rights. The 1960s woman “demanded equal rights and equal pay, wanted to be free, to look young and to have fun”. Oversized fashions were utilized in more subtle ways in this decade, giving rise to trends that revolutionized the working woman and gave a voice to more conservative feminines.\n\nTo achieve this youthful and flirty look, skirts were shortened, creating a look reminiscent of the 1920s. During this era, in 1965, the miniskirt was developed. An alternative to this exposed look was in high demand, thus leading to the creation of the midi skirt. This new \"midi\" mainly featured a pleated A-line bodice, which allowed it to flow away from the body. This oversized fashion began to make its way to the workplace as it provided both femininity and formality. Evening wear was also affected, and both long and short dresses could be seen at engagements. Designs embraced the oversized look through more elegant silhouettes, specially in evening wear, which boasted loose forms and fluid fabrics. The change in fashion during this period was also due to international influences such as from London and France, where designers were young. A notable point about this period is that women also began to wear pants-suits and jeans.\n\nThe materials used for both clothing and accessories changed during this era. Increasingly used were easy-care synthetic fabrics such as Crimplene, Dacron and Terylene. The benefits of such synthetic fabrics were that they were crease-resistant, easy to wash, and required little to no ironing. Designers such as Cristóbal Balenciaga embraced these new types of materials, using them in oversized dolman-sleeve jackets. The pattern for this piece was cut in a rectangular shape forming a boxy blousy look.\n\nDuring this period, synthetic yarns that took dyes easily were used. Leather-look plastic also helped to create a vibrant feel to accessories such as shoes, umbrellas and additional clothing items such as mini-skirts. While in this era, clothing became split along lines of age, there were overriding oversized trends including: midi skirts, Dolman sleeves, loose jackets and shapeless frocks. Another factor contributing to the trends of this period was the “post-industrial boom” that helped to generate wealth in the United States. Jackie Kennedy, wife of President John F. Kennedy, became a model of French fashions and helped to spur the spread of the miniskirt, along with Twiggy, who gained iconic status as the face and body of the era wearing the shapeless mod dresses that were a huge trend. Jackie Kennedy’s “beehive” hairstyle also highlighted oversized fashion.\n\nThe 1970s is often referred to as the “Me Decade”, a term originally coined by writer Tom Wolfe. There were many groups, such as political and extremist groups, wanting a piece of the action. With respect to dress, it was an “anything goes” era, without rules. This manifested in some ways via the production of oversized fashion.\n\nFashion styles were inspired by previous decades, hinting at both nostalgia and an interest in other cultures. The current political and economic situation of the United States, including the civil rights, unemployment levels, war and terrorism, were reflected in the manner in which individuals dressed. With the women’s movement of the 1970s, radical feminists could be stereotyped for their anti-high fashion sentiments; these women required low maintenance and made a statement. With regards to high fashion, established fashion houses produced more ready-to-wear collections and casual attire.\n\nWith nostalgia a big theme of this period, secondhand clothes were key. Similar to the 1950s, 1920s clothing also influenced this decade, along with fashions of the '30s, '40s and '50s. Television and movies such as \"The Godfather\" and \"Grease\" also played homage to styles of the past. When not inspired by nostalgia, fashion took another turn whereby \"the idea was to appear as if your body had been spray painted\". To achieve this look, leotards were worn and were accessorized with short frilled skirts, cap sleeves and leg-warmers. “Hot pants” or skimpy shorts were also popular in the beginning of the '70s. By the mid-1970s, we see the reemergence of “unstructured design” from the fashion houses. These were considered the simplest cuts, appearing to look as if no skilled cutting was required. Typical of this cut is Issey Miyake’s wool cowboy look for winter 1978-79, an example of experimentation in textured knitting. The unstructured design of the 1970s highlights the oversized fashion of the decade.\n\nThe beginning of the 1980s was the first time when women assumed high-status roles in the workplace. Akin to the 1940s, women’s fashion in the 1980s was quite masculine, which was a reflection of women wanting to be taken seriously as working professionals. The three most important designers at the start of this decade, Calvin Klein, Giorgio Armani, and Ralph Lauren, were designing clothing that was characterized by broad and square shoulders. This use of oversized shoulders was largely a demonstration of women not wanting to be viewed by their feminine figures, but rather to be viewed equally in their careers.\n\nDesigners such as Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garçons and Yohji Yamamoto began designing with a Japanese-inspired aesthetics. Clothing became much more oversized to better resemble kimonos and other flowing Japanese garments. As with oversized shoulders, this Japanese style had the effect of disguising the womanly shape. Donna Karan, who became known at the time as “the Queen of 7th Avenue,”, also began utilizing this Japanese style of dress.\n\nFigures both within and outside the fashion world took on this gender-neutral style and made the look ever more popular. Singer, actress, and model Grace Jones was a key figure in furthering this type of fashion—keeping her hair short and wearing manly, oversized clothing. Scottish singer Annie Lennox did the same, but had much more of an effect in the musical realm.\n\nAnother essential person who helped further the style of oversized fashion in the 1980s was Princess Diana, who for her wedding to Charles, Prince of Wales in July 1981 wore an oversized wedding dress—making the tailor popular all around the world for the remainder of the decade.\n\nThe 1990s was one of the most diverse eras for fashion. As the fashion world began to experience technological modernization, along with a widespread support from mainstream consumers, the industry felt the need to appeal to different types of audiences. Some of the women’s fashion trends included neon and pastel colors, legging and exercise wear, the hippie look, and a hip-hop style. The last of those examples, hip-hop style, is identifiable as the oversized fashion of the '90s. The influence of hip-hop on urban fashion was overtly strong. Urban fashion was distinctly designed for African-American youth.\n\nThe 1990s urban style heavily influenced by Black Nationalism and African trends began with the blousy pant sported by famous figures in the rap world such as MC Hammer, who popularized oversized \"Hammer pants\", and fezzes. However, men were not the only ones to embrace this new form of street wear. Women too began to explore the trend. The group TLC (band) and R&B singer Aaliyah created their own urban fashion for women. The trend consisted of wearing oversized pants and big flannel shirts. The hardcore aspect of rap did not fully permit the women to embrace a feminine look that might make them appear weaker. However, some femininity was maintained by the wearing of more fitted shirts, bare midsections and sports bras, while still being hard with the blousy pieces.\n\nDuring the upheaval of the streetwear fashion, models of color began to make their mark in the industry. It was during the 1990s that Tyra Banks found fame. After being rejected by six modeling agency the young Banks was signed by Elite Model Management, and in her first season as a model she booked 25 shows in Paris Fashion Week. Banks' seductive walk impressed designers and made her a hot commodity. Designers who were influenced by the new oversized streetwear were more likely to book models of color to show their designs. Other famous models of color during the time include Naomi Campbell and Iman. Undoubtedly, oversized fashion marked the beginning of a new trend for urban youth during the 1990s.\n\nWomen’s oversized fashion at the turn of the century is largely displayed in various accessories. At the beginning of the 2000s, many designers began using sizable and bulky glasses and jewelry in their lines, and women in the spheres of fashion, music, and film began wearing these oversized decorations. Celebrities such as Nicole Richie and Rachel Zoe helped to further this wearing of oversized accessories, and assisted in making the items popular in everyday wear. As the decade progressed, the utility of oversized accessories did not wane, but rather became even more widely used.\n\nSince the year 2006, three designers have garnered massive amounts of attention for their adoption of oversized fashion: Stella McCartney, Alexander McQueen, and Marc Jacobs. In 2006, McQueen put on a show in which an enormous hologram of Kate Moss dressed in yards of rippling fabric adorned the backdrop of catwalk; this move furthered the attention of oversized fashion and made Moss the poster model for oversized styling. The death of McQueen in February 2010 led to his style of fashion accruing even more attention, which put oversized fashion even more on the map.\n\nAnother exhibition of the trend is the oversized handbag. Designers such as Balenciaga, Betsey Johnson, and Michael Kors began producing purses and satchel-like bags that were larger than usual and complied with the oversized aesthetic. As a result of the enormous increase in influence of the internet and social media, these bags quickly became very popular after pictures of celebrities carrying them were posted online for many to see and then emulate.\n\nThe reviews of oversized fashion use in the new millennium have been mixed. Some designers and critics have welcomed the utilization of oversized accessories, while others view the trend as prodigal. Young designers and fashion houses such as McCartney, McQueen, and Jacobs generally esteem oversized accessories, while older and more established couturiers such as Chanel find much oversized accessories distasteful and extravagant.\n"}
