{"id": "35936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35936", "title": "1st millennium", "text": "1st millennium\n\nThe first millennium was a period of time spanning the years AD 1 to AD 1000 (1st to 10th centuries; in astronomy: JD – ).\nWorld population rose more slowly than during the preceding millennium, from about 200 million in AD 1 to about 300 million in AD 1000.\n\nIn Western Eurasia (Europe and Near East), the first millennium was a time of great transition from Classical Antiquity to the Middle Ages. The 1st century saw the peak of the Roman Empire, followed by its gradual decline during the period of Late Antiquity, the rise of Christianity and the Great Migrations. The second half of the millennium is characterized as the Early Middle Ages in Europe, and marked by the Viking expansion in the west, the rise of the Byzantine Empire in the east.\nEarly Islam expands rapidly from Arabia to West Asia, North Africa and the Iberian peninsula., culminating in the Islamic Golden Age (700–1200 AD).\n\nIn East Asia, the first millennium was also a time of great cultural advances, notably the spread of Buddhism to East Asia. In China, the Han dynasty is replaced by the Jin dynasty and later the Tang dynasty until the 10th century sees renewed fragmentation in the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period. In Japan, a sharp increase in population followed when farmers' use of iron tools increased their productivity and crop yields. The Yamato court was established.\n\nIn South Asia, the Indian subcontinent was divided among numerous kingdoms throughout the first millennium, until the formation of the Gupta Empire.\n\nIn Mesoamerica, the first millennium was a period of enormous growth known as the Classic Era (200–900 AD). Teotihuacan grew into a metropolis and its empire dominated Mesoamerica. In South America, pre-Incan, coastal cultures flourished, producing impressive metalwork and some of the finest pottery seen in the ancient world.\nIn North America, the Mississippian culture rose at the end of the millennium in the Mississippi and Ohio river valleys. Numerous cities were built; Cahokia, the largest, was based in present-day Illinois. The construction of Monks Mound at Cahokia was begun in 900–950 AD.\n\nIn Sub-Saharan Africa, the Bantu expansion reaches Southern Africa by about the 5th century.\nThe Arab slave trade spans the Sahara and the Swahili coast by the 9th century.\n\n\"The events in this section are organized according to the United Nations geoscheme\"\n\"The people in this section are organized according to the United Nations geoscheme\"\n"}
{"id": "53099618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53099618", "title": "Aage Friis", "text": "Aage Friis\n\nAage Friis (16 August 1870 in Korsør, Denmark – 5 October 1949 in Hellerup) was a Danish historian and university lecturer.\n\nFriis completed his studies in 1896 with a master's degree in history. He was a member of the university library at the University of Copenhagen from 1891 to 1900, during which he graduated with a doctorate in 1899 with a dissertation on Andreas Peter Bernstorff and Ove Høegh-Guldberg. In 1913, he became the history professor at the University of Copenhagen, where he remained until his retirement in 1935. He was rector of the university in 1932/1933. In 1919 he was one of the co-founders of the Foreningen Norden.\n\nFriis was concerned with Danish history in its relations with Germany. Here, the Bernstorff family presented one of its main themes in the history of the early modern period; his two-volume work \"The Bernstorffs and Denmark\" were also translated into German. He also appeared as a Danish biographer of the young Bismarck before his reign in Denmark. Before and after the First World War, he became a member of the Danish Social Liberal Party, partly as an employee of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Southern Jutland issue, which resulted in Nordschleswig being Danish again after the war as a result of the Schleswig plebiscites of 1920. He was friends with the German historian Friedrich Meinecke. He was buried at Solbjerg Parkkirkegård in Frederiksberg.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2181738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2181738", "title": "Aijaz Ahmad", "text": "Aijaz Ahmad\n\nAijaz Ahmad (born 1932) is a Marxist philosopher, literary theorist and political commentator. He is currently the Chancellor's Professor at the UC Irvine School of Humanities’ Department of Comparative Literature.\n\nBorn in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India Aijaz Ahmad and his parents migrated to Pakistan following partition. After his education he worked in various universities in US and Canada. Before joining UC Irvine in 2017, he was professorial fellow at the Centre of Contemporary Studies, Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, New Delhi and was visiting professor of political science at York University, Toronto. He also works as an editorial consultant with the Indian newsmagazine \"Frontline\" and as a senior news analyst for the Indian website Newsclick.\n\nIn his book \"In Theory: Classes, Nations, Literatures\", Ahmad primarily discusses the role of theory and theorists in the movement against colonialism and imperialism. Ahmad's argument against those who uphold poststructuralism and postmodernist conceptions of material history revolves around the fact that very little has been accomplished since the advent of this brand of postcolonial inquiry. The book contains an especially polemical critique of Frederic Jameson's argument in 'Third World Literature in the Era of Multinational Capitalism\" where Ahmad attacks Jameson on the grounds that Jameson's argument is insufficiently theorized in its use of terms like \"Third World\" which appears to be defined purely in terms of its experience of colonialism. This in turn leads Jameson to make hasty and untenable generalizations about how all \"third world literature' would necessarily function as a national allegory that according to Jameson works as resistance to a system of global postmodernism.\n\nAhmad in his book expresses his chagrin at how his critique of Jameson has been appropriated by Postcolonial scholars as an attack on Marxism, while Ahmad contends that he takes issue with Jameson simply because his use of Marxism in the essay on Third World Literature is not rigorous enough. \nThe book also contains a lengthy critique of Edward Said's Orientalism which Ahmad argues reproduces the very Liberal Humanist tradition that it seeks to undermine in its selection of Western canonized texts that are critiqued for their Orientalism, as this upholds the idea that Western culture is represented in its entirety through those very texts. Furthermore, Ahmad asserts that by tracing Orientalist thought all the way back to Ancient Greece it becomes unclear in Said's work whether Orientalism is a product of Colonialism, or whether Colonialism is, in fact, a product of Orientalism.\n\n\nEdited\n\n"}
{"id": "493711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=493711", "title": "Alb", "text": "Alb\n\nThe alb (from the Latin \"Albus\", meaning \"white\"), one of the liturgical vestments of the Roman Catholic, Anglican, Lutheran, and Methodist churches, is an ample white garment coming down to the ankles and is usually girdled with a cincture (a type of belt, sometimes of rope similar to the type used with monk garments). It is simply the long, white linen tunic used by the Romans.\n\nAs a simple derivative of ordinary first-century clothing, the alb was adopted very early by Christians, and especially by the clergy for the Eucharistic liturgy. In early Medieval Europe it was also normally worn by secular clergy in non-liturgical contexts.\n\nNowadays, the alb is the common vestment for all ministers at Mass, both clerics and laypersons, and is worn over the cassock and under any other special garments, such as the stole, dalmatic or chasuble. If the alb does not completely cover the collar, an amice is often worn underneath the alb. The shortening of the alb for use outside a church has given rise to the surplice, and its cousin the rochet, worn by canons and bishops. Post-Tridentine albs often were made with lace. Since then, this detail has fallen out of style, except in parts of the Anglo-Catholic movement and some very traditional Arab Catholic parishes.\n\nA chasuble-alb is a contemporary Eucharistic vestment that combines features of the chasuble and alb. In the Roman Catholic Church, it was first adopted in France, though without official approval. In France it is no longer fashionable, but it has been officially approved in some tropical countries such as the Philippines, and in Hawaii in the United States. It is always white in colour. A stole of the colour appointed for the Mass of the day is worn outside it, in place of the normal white alb and coloured chasuble.\n\nA cassock-alb is a vestment that combines features of the cassock and alb. It developed as a more convenient undergarment worn by clergy and as an alternative to the alb for deacons and acolytes.\n"}
{"id": "3773710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3773710", "title": "Alexander Kokorinov", "text": "Alexander Kokorinov\n\nAlexander Filippovich Kokorinov () (July 10, 1726 – March 21, 1772) was a Russian architect and educator of Siberian origin, one of the founders, the first builder, director (1761) and rector (1769) of the Imperial Academy of Arts in Saint Peterburg. Kokorinov has been house architect of the Razumovsky family and Ivan Shuvalov, the first President of the Academy. Kokorinov's surviving architectural legacy, once believed to be substantial, has been reduced by recent research to only two buildings, the Imperial Academy of Arts and Kirill Razumovsky palace in Saint Petersburg. The Academy was designed by Jean-Baptiste Vallin de la Mothe based on an earlier proposal by Jacques-François Blondel, while Kokorinov managed the construction in its early phases (1764–1772).\n\nAlexander Kokorinov was born in Tobolsk in the family of a government clerk. At the age of 14 he began training with Johann Blank (father of Karl Blank), a self-proclaimed architect exiled from Saint Petersburg for his involvement in the alleged conspiracy of Artemy Volynsky (1740). With the ascension of Elisabeth in 1741 survivors of the Volynsky affair were amnestied and the Blanks returned to Moscow, taking Kokorinov with them.\n\nKokorinov and Karl Blank studied arts and architecture in Moscow under Ivan Korobov, and in 1749 Kokorinov was hired by prince Dmitry Ukhtomsky, then the leading Moscow architect of Elisabethan Baroque and dean of an architectural school based in Moscow Kremlin. He received the degree of Master of Mathematics from Moscow University and in 1754 Kokorinov passed professional examination as a \"junior architect\", joined the staff of Francesco Bartolomeo Rastrelli and relocated to Saint Petersburg where he made contact with count Ivan Shuvalov, founder of Moscow State University (1755) and the Imperial Academy of Arts (1757). Kokorinov joined the staff of the Academy since its first days.\n\nShuvalov initially proposed to set up the Academy in Moscow and commissioned Jacques-François Blondel to design the new campus there. Empress Elisabeth insisted that the Academy must be based in Saint Petersburg, and the task of adapting Blondel's plans was awarded to Kokorinov, who has already designed Shuvalov's own house in Saint Petersburg. Kokorinov, firmly trained only in Baroque styling, struggled with Blondel's French neoclassical design and in 1759 Shuvalov hired another Frenchman to assist Kokorinov. Jean-Baptiste Vallin de la Mothe, Blondel's cousin and a recent graduate of the Royal Academy of Architecture, became Kokorinov's peer on the Academy project and soon surpassed him. Design of the building is traditionally credited by Kokorinov and de la Mothe, but recent research in French archives indicate that it was de la Mothe's own work, while no drafts by Kokorinov were ever found. The Academy, a complex structure measuring 140 by 125 meters, bears traces of Blondel's style yet, according to Dmitry Shvidkovsky, \"is more up to date ... especially noticeable in plan. Where Blondel specified a corinthian order, the stricter Roman Doric was actually used. The cupola too is more laconic than as designed by Blondel. The complete building turned out even more austere than it appears in de la Mothe's drawings.\"\n\nIn 1761 Kokorinov was appointed director of the Academy (subordinate to its President), but it was not until 1765 when he became its professor. He taught elementary architectural theory and history of architecture, while de la Mothe taught advanced architectural subjects.\n\nWhile the architects finalized their proposal, Russia was shaken by a brief reign (5 January 1762 – 9 July 1762) and murder of emperor Peter III, succeeded by Catherine II. The new empress sent Shuvalov to a de facto exile in his country estate and installed Ivan Betskoy as the new President of the Academy. March 18, 1764 she authorized financing for construction in earnest and set up construction board, headed by Kokorinov. De la Mothe, who always shied away from practical construction, was not actively involved on site; for the first time in Russian history, architectural profession was split into architectural design and construction management.\n\nDuring Russian-Turkish war of 1768–1774 financing of the project virtually stopped, while Betskoy initiated a criminal case against alleged fraud on the site. Kokorinov, blamed with cost overruns, died in 1772; unofficial opinion held it that he committed suicide. De la Mothe left Russia in 1775, the building was completed by Yury Felten in 1788.\n\n"}
{"id": "2584146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2584146", "title": "Ancient Egyptian medicine", "text": "Ancient Egyptian medicine\n\nThe medicine of the ancient Egyptians is some of the oldest documented. From the beginnings of the civilization in the late fourth millennium BC until the Persian invasion of 525 BC, Egyptian medical practice went largely unchanged but was highly advanced for its time, including simple non-invasive surgery, setting of bones, dentistry, and an extensive set of pharmacopoeia. Egyptian medical thought influenced later traditions, including the Greeks.\n\nUntil the 19th century, the main sources of information about ancient Egyptian medicine were writings from later in antiquity. The Greek historian Herodotus visited Egypt around 440 BC and wrote extensively of his observations of their medicinal practice. Pliny the Elder also wrote favorably of them in historical review. Hippocrates (the \"father of medicine\"), Herophilos, Erasistratus and later Galen studied at the temple of Amenhotep, and acknowledged the contribution of ancient Egyptian medicine to Greek medicine.\n\nIn 1822, the translation of the Rosetta stone finally allowed the translation of ancient Egyptian hieroglyphic inscriptions and papyri, including many related to medical matters (Egyptian medical papyri). The resultant interest in Egyptology in the 19th century led to the discovery of several sets of extensive ancient medical documents, including the Ebers papyrus, the Edwin Smith Papyrus, the Hearst Papyrus, the London Medical Papyrus and others dating back as far as 2900 BC.\n\nThe Edwin Smith Papyrus is a textbook on surgery and details anatomical observations and the \"examination, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis\" of numerous ailments. It was probably written around 1600 BC, but is regarded as a copy of several earlier texts. Medical information in it dates from as early as 3000 BC. It is thus viewed as a learning manual. Treatments consisted of ointments made from animal, vegetable or fruit substances or minerals. There is evidence of oral surgery being performed as early as the 4th Dynasty (2900-2750 BC).\n\nThe Ebers papyrus c. 1550 BC includes 877 prescriptions (as categorized by a modern editor) for a variety of ailments and illnesses, some of them involving magical remedies, for Egyptian beliefs regarding magic and medicine were often intertwined.It also contains documentation revealing awareness of tumors, along with instructions on tumor removal.\n\nThe Kahun Gynaecological Papyrus treats women's complaints, including problems with conception. Thirty four cases detailing diagnosis and treatment survive, some of them fragmentarily. Dating to 1800 BC, it is the oldest surviving medical text of any kind.\n\nOther documents such as the Hearst papyrus (1450 BC), and Berlin Papyrus (1200 BC) also provide valuable insight into ancient Egyptian medicine.\n\nOther information comes from the images that often adorn the walls of Egyptian tombs and the translation of the accompanying inscriptions. Advances in modern medical technology also contributed to the understanding of ancient Egyptian medicine. Paleopathologists were able to use X-Rays and later CAT Scans to view the bones and organs of mummies. Electron microscopes, mass spectrometry and various forensic techniques allowed scientists unique glimpses of the state of health in Egypt 4000 years ago.\n\nThe ancient Egyptians were at least partially aware of the importance of diet, both in balance and moderation. Owing to Egypt's great endowment of fertile land, food production was never a major issue, although, no matter how bountiful the land, paupers and starvation still exist. The main crops for most of ancient Egyptian history were emmer wheat and barley. Consumed in the form of loaves which were produced in a variety of types through baking and fermentation, with yeast greatly enriching the nutritional value of the product, one farmer's crop could support an estimated twenty adults. Barley was also used in beer. Vegetables and fruits of many types were widely grown. Oil was produced from the linseed plant and there was a limited selection of spices and herbs. Meat (sheep, goats, pigs, wild game) was regularly available to at least the upper classes and fish were widely consumed, although there is evidence of prohibitions during certain periods against certain types of animal products; Herodotus wrote of the pig as being 'unclean'. Offerings to King Unas (c. 2494–2345 BC) were recorded as\n\n\"...milk, three kinds of beer, five kinds of wine, ten loaves, four of bread, ten of cakes four meats, different cuts, joints, roast, spleen, limb, breast, quail, goose, pigeon, figs, ten other fruits, three kinds of corn, barley, spelt, five kinds of oil, and fresh plants...\"\n\nIt is clear that the Egyptian diet was not lacking for the upper classes and that even the lower classes may have had some selection (Nunn, 2002).\n\nLike many civilizations in the past, the ancient Egyptians amply discovered the medicinal properties of plant life around them. In the Edwin Smith Papyrus there are many recipes to help heal different ailments. In a small section of this papyrus, there are five recipes one dealing with problems women may have had, three on techniques for refining the complexion, and the fifth recipe for ailments that deal with the colon. The ancient Egyptians were known to use honey as medicine, and the juices of pomegranates served as both an astringent and a delicacy.\" In the Ebers Papyrus, there are over 800 remedies; some were topical like ointments, and wrappings, others were oral medication such as pills and mouth rinses;still others were taken through inhalation. The recipes to cure constipation consisted of berries from the castor oil tree, Male Palm, and Gengent beans, just to name a few. One recipe that was to help headaches called for \"inner-of-onion, fruit-of-the-am-tree, natron, setseft-seeds, bone-of-the-sword-fish, cooked, redfish, cooked, skull-of-crayfish, cooked, honey, and abra-ointment.\" Some of the recommended treatments made use of cannabis and incense. \"Egyptian medicinal use of plants in antiquity is known to be extensive, with some 160 distinct plant products...\" Amidst the many plant extracts and fruits, the Egyptians also used animal feces and even some metals as treatments. These prescriptions of antiquity were measured out by volume, not weight, which makes their prescription making craft more like cooking than what Pharmacists do today. While their treatments and herbal remedies seem almost boundless, they still included incantations along with some therapeutic remedies.\n\nEgyptian drug therapy is perceived ineffective by today's standards according to Michael D. Parkins who says that 28% of 260 medical prescriptions in the Hearst Papyrus had ingredient which can be perceived \"to have had activity towards the condition being treated and another third supplied to any given disorder would produce a purgative effect on the gastrointestinal system. \n\nMedical knowledge in ancient Egypt had an excellent reputation; while rulers of other empires would ask the Egyptian pharaoh to send them their best physician to treat their loved ones. Egyptians had some knowledge of human anatomy. For example, in the classic mummification process, mummifiers knew how to insert a long hooked implement through a nostril, breaking the thin bone of the braincase and removing the brain. They also had a general idea that inner organs are in the body cavity. They removed the organs through a small incision in the left groin. Whether this knowledge was passed down to the practitioners is unknown; yet it did not seem to have had any impact on their medical theories.\n\nEgyptian physicians were aware of the existence of the pulse and its connection to the heart. The author of the Smith Papyrus even had a vague idea of the cardiac system. Although he did not know about blood circulation and deemed it unimportant to distinguish between blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. They developed their theory of \"channels\" that carried air, water, and blood to the body by analogies with the River Nile; if it became blocked, crops became unhealthy. They applied this principle to the body: If a person was unwell, they would use laxatives to unblock the \"channels\".\n\nMany of their medical practices were effective, such as the surgical procedures given in the Edwin Smith papyrus. Mostly, the physicians' advice for staying healthy was to wash and shave the body, including under the arms, to prevent infections. They also advised patients to look after their diet, and avoid foods such as raw fish or other animals considered to be unclean.\n\nThe oldest metal (Bronze or copper\n) surgical tools in the world were discovered in the tomb of Qar.\nSurgery was a common practice among physicians as treatment for physical injuries. The Egyptian physicians recognized three categories of injuries; treatable, contestable, and untreatable ailments. Treatable ailments the surgeons would quickly set to right. Contestable ailments were those where the victim could presumably survive without treatment, so patients assumed to be in this category were observed and if they survived then surgical attempts could be made to fix the problem with them. They used knives, hooks, drills, forceps, pincers, scales, spoons, saws and a vase with burning incense.\n\nCircumcision of males was the normal practice, as stated by Herodotus in his Histories. Though its performance as a procedure was rarely mentioned, the uncircumcised nature of other cultures was frequently noted, the uncircumcised nature of the Liberians was frequently referenced and military campaigns brought back uncircumcised phalli as trophies, which suggests novelty. However, other records describe initiates into the religious orders as involving circumcision which would imply that the practice was special and not widespread. The only known depiction of the procedure, in The Tomb of the Physician, burial place of Ankh-Mahor at Saqqara, shows adolescents or adults, not babies. Female circumcision may have been practiced, although the single reference to it in ancient texts may be a mistranslation.\n\nProsthetics, such as artificial toes and eyeballs, were also used; typically, they served little more than decorative purposes. In preparation for burial, missing body parts would be replaced; however, these do not appear as if they would have been useful, or even attachable, before death.\n\nThe extensive use of surgery, mummification practices, and autopsy as a religious exercise gave Egyptians a vast knowledge of the body's morphology, and even a considerable understanding of organ functions. The function of most major organs was correctly presumed—for example, blood was correctly guessed to be a transpiration medium for vitality and waste which is not too far from its actual role in carrying oxygen and removing carbon dioxide—with the exception of the heart and brain whose functions were switched. \n\nDentistry was an important field, as an independent profession it dated from the early 3rd millennium BC, although it may never have been prominent. The Egyptian diet was high in abrasives from sand left over from grinding grain and bits of rocks in which the way bread was prepared, and so the condition of their teeth was poor. Archaeologists have noted a steady decrease in severity and incidence of worn teeth throughout 4000 BC to 1000 AD, probably due to improved grain grinding techniques. All Egyptian remains have sets of teeth in quite poor states. Dental disease could even be fatal, such as for Djedmaatesankh, a musician from Thebes, who died around the age of thirty five from extensive dental disease and a large infected cyst. If an individual's teeth escaped being worn down, cavities were rare, due to the rarity of sweeteners. Dental treatment was ineffective and the best sufferers could hope for was the quick loss of an infected tooth. The Instruction of Ankhsheshonq contains the maxim \"There is no tooth that rots yet stays in place\". No records document the hastening of this process and no tools suited for the extraction of teeth have been found, though some remains show sign of forced tooth removal. Replacement teeth have been found, although it is not clear whether they are just post-mortem cosmetics. Extreme pain might have been medicated with opium.\n\nMagic and religion were an integral part of everyday life in ancient Egypt. Evil gods and demons were thought to be responsible for many ailments, so often the treatments involved a supernatural element, such as beginning treatment with an appeal to a deity. There does not appear to have existed a clear distinction between what nowadays one would consider the very distinct callings of priest and physician. The healers, many of them priests of Sekhmet, often used incantations and magic as part of treatment.\n\nThe widespread belief in magic and religion may have resulted in a powerful placebo effect; that is, the perceived validity of the cure may have contributed to its effectiveness. The impact of the emphasis on magic is seen in the selection of remedies or ingredients for them. Ingredients were sometimes selected seemingly because they were derived from a substance, plant or animal that had characteristics which in some way corresponded to the symptoms of the patient. This is known as the principle of \"simila similibus\" (\"similar with similar\") and is found throughout the history of medicine up to the modern practice of homeopathy. Thus an ostrich egg is included in the treatment of a broken skull, and an amulet portraying a hedgehog might be used against baldness.\n\nAmulets in general, were very popular. They were worn for many magical purposes. Health related amulets are classified as homeopoetic, phylactic and theophoric. Homeopoetic amulets portray an animal or part of an animal, from which the wearer hopes to gain positive attributes like strength or speed. Phylactic amulets protected against harmful gods and demons. The famous Eye of Horus was often used on a phylactic amulet. Theophoric amulets represented Egyptian gods; one represented the girdle of Isis and was intended to stem the flow of blood at miscarriage. They were often made of bone, hanging from a leather strap.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian word for doctor is \"swnw\". This title has a long history. The earliest recorded physician in the world, Hesy-Ra, practiced in ancient Egypt. He was \"Chief of Dentists and Physicians\" to King Djoser, who ruled in the 27th century BC. The lady Peseshet (2400 BC) may be the first recorded female doctor: she was possibly the mother of Akhethotep, and on a stela dedicated to her in his tomb she is referred to as \"imy-r swnwt\", which has been translated as \"Lady Overseer of the Lady Physicians\" (\"swnwt\" is the feminine of \"swnw\").\n\nThere were many ranks and specializations in the field of medicine. Royalty employed their own \"swnw\", even their own specialists. There were inspectors of doctors, overseers and chief doctors. Known ancient Egyptian specialists are ophthalmologist, gastroenterologist, proctologist, dentist, \"doctor who supervises butchers\" and an unspecified \"inspector of liquids\". The ancient Egyptian term for proctologist, \"neru phuyt\", literally translates as \"shepherd of the anus\". The latter title is already attested around 2200 BC by Irynachet.\n\nInstitutions, called (Per Ankh) or \"Houses of Life\", are known to have been established in ancient Egypt since the 1st Dynasty and may have had medical functions, being at times associated in inscriptions with physicians, such as Peftauawyneit and Wedjahorresnet living in the middle of the 1st millennium BC. By the time of the 19th Dynasty their employees enjoyed such benefits as medical insurance, pensions and sick leave.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28443793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28443793", "title": "Andrew Wilson (classical archaeologist)", "text": "Andrew Wilson (classical archaeologist)\n\nAndrew Ian Wilson (born 29 February 1968) is a British classical archaeologist and Head of School of Archaeology at the University of Oxford. He was director of the Oxford Institute of Archaeology from 2009 to 2011. Wilson's main research interests are the economy of the Roman world, Greek and Roman water supply, and ancient technology.\n\nWilson was educated at the Perse School, Cambridge, and at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, where he studied Literae Humaniores (Classics) from 1987–1991. From 1991 to 1993 he worked as a computer consultant for the electronics firm Eurotherm, before returning to Oxford to study for his doctorate (1993–1997), a social and technological study on water management and usage in Roman North Africa, supervised by John Lloyd.\n\nFrom 1996 to 2000 he was a Fellow by Examination in Classical Archaeology at Magdalen College, Oxford, and spend nine months at the British School at Rome as a Rome Scholar in 1999 and 2000. In 2000 he became University Lecturer in Roman Archaeology at the University of Oxford, and a Fellow of Wolfson College; and in 2004 was appointed Professor of the Archaeology of the Roman Empire, and Fellow of All Souls College.\n\nWilson was Director of the Oxford Institute of Archaeology from 2009 to 2011, and was Head of the School of Archaeology from 2013. He is Chairman of the Society for Libyan Studies, and is on the editorial and advisory boards of several periodicals: \"Ancient West and East\"; \"Facta: A journal of Roman Material Culture Studies\"; and \"Oxford Journal of Archaeology\". With Alan Bowman, he directs the Oxford Roman Economy Project (OxREP).\n\nWilson's research marshals archaeological data to address historical questions about ancient society, technology and economy. He has co-directed excavations in Rome, Euesperides (modern Benghazi, Libya), and Utica, Tunisia, and has participated in excavation and fieldwork projects in Thamusida, Morocco, on the Tunisian isle of Jerba, in the Libyan desert region Fazzan, Yeronisos on Cyprus and Al-Andarin in Syria. , he has published over ninety articles and reviews and is co-editor of the monograph series \"Oxford Studies in the Roman Economy\" for Oxford University Press.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1923399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1923399", "title": "Astragalomancy", "text": "Astragalomancy\n\nAstragalomancy, also known as astragyromancy, is a form of divination that uses dice specially marked with letters or numbers.\n\nOriginally, as with dice games, the \"dice\" were knucklebones or other small bones of quadrupeds. Marked \"astragali\" (talus bones) of sheep and goats are common at Mediterranean and Near Eastern archaeological sites, particularly at funeral and religious locations. For example, marked astragali have been found near the altar of Aphrodite Ourania in Athens, Greece, suggesting astragalomancy was performed near the altar after about 500 BC.\n\nAlso known as cleromancy, the practice of contacting divine truth via random castings of dice or bones stretches back before recorded history. The Metropolitan Museum of Art displayed bone \"dice\" (\"hakata\") used by the Shona people of southern Africa.\nThey have been in use for thousands of years, and remain extant.\n\nSince astragalomancy is a form of sortition, numbers are scrawled into the dice; the numbers are associated with letters, thus bearing on the questions of the diviner. The diviner then casts the dice, resulting in a random sequence of numbers. The diviner interprets this sequence according to certain rules – usually rules specific to his/her religion (e.g. Buddhism).\n\nAstragalomancy is considered the twin of pessomancy (also known as psephomancy) – another act of divination which uses colored or marked pebbles as opposed to numbered dice. These pebbles are either thrown out of a bag after shuffling or drawn from the bag at random. The interpretation of the colors or symbols relate to issues such as health, communications, success, and travel.\n\nThe Dalai Lama is reported as using the \"mo\", balls of dough in which have been placed pieces of paper with possible \"choices\" written on them, to help in making important decisions. Tibetan divination has long featured the \"mo\" in making everyday decisions, too. There are books written by various lamas on interpretations for the casting of dice.\n\n"}
{"id": "36424337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36424337", "title": "Balu, Kaithal", "text": "Balu, Kaithal\n\nBalu is a small archeological site attributed to the Indus Valley Civilisation, located some south of the city of Kaithal in the Indian state of Haryana.\n\nThis is a small fortified settlement which has yielded several plant remains.\n\nSeveral plant remains were found here include various types of barley, wheat, rice, horsegram, green gram, various types of pea, sesamum, melon, watermelon, grapes, dates, garlic etc. (Saraswat and Pokharia - 2001-2) which is comparable to a nearby IVC site Kunal, Haryana revealed remains of rice (probably wild).\n\nThe plant remains found here include a garlic specimen, recognised as the earliest evidence of garlic. This is the earliest evidence of garlic cloves in south & south-east Asia, and it dates to the Mature Harappan period.\n\n\nLocation of Balu and other IVC sites in Haryana \n"}
{"id": "35544460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35544460", "title": "Basic Battle Skills", "text": "Basic Battle Skills\n\nBasic Battle Skills is a field training manual formerly issued to individual soldiers in the British Army.\n\nEditions were modified over a period of approximately 25 years before the book was withdrawn from issue.\n\nThe manual was divided into seven chapters, each one an illustrated set of instructions on how to carry out the most basic subjects taught to soldiers during their first weeks of training. \n\n\nThe opening chapter \"Individual Fieldcraft and Minor Tactics\" starts with the information: \"A sound knowledge of Fieldcraft and Minor Tactics will help you in combat to:\"\n\n\nIn the first chapter the manual describes in more detail the skills needed in Fieldcraft and Minor Tactics. Commencing with \"Judging Distance\" and describing methods on how to ascertain how far a subject is from the soldier up to ranges of 400 metres and recommending that weapon sights be carefully adjusted for accuracy. The chapter also gives guidance on \"Personal Camouflage\", \"Target Recognition\", \"Fire Control Orders\", \"Movement in the field\", \"Movement at night\", \"Night Noises\", \"Night vision\", \"Sentry duties\", \"Sentries at night in the field\", \"Rifle section formations\", \"Field signals (on foot)\", \"Advancing towards the enemy\", \"Weapon handling\", \"Ammunition\" and \"Trenches\".\n\nThe book contains simple illustrations with vivid colours detailing in pictures what the wording of each section instructs a soldier to do in various situations. For example: in chapter one instructions are provided on the method and wording to be used when challenging movement of persons approaching the sentry position. The manual instructs the sentry to call out, \"Halt, who goes there? Advance one and be recognised.\" When approached in response to this command the sentry is instructed to use the \"challenge\" part of the password and to expect the correct reply before allowing any further movement of the person(s) approaching his position. The password will have previously been set by the officers in command and have been made known to every soldier within the formation. It will take the form of two simple words, for example: the challenge part could be \"sausages\" and the reply \"chips\". Therefore, the sentry calls out \"sausages\" and expects the reply \"chips\". If the correct reply is not received the sentry would be expected to open fire on the enemy approaching as anyone without the password is to be treated as an enemy.\n\nThe illustration to the right shows in words and pictures how a sentry should perform his duties in the event of requiring to challenge a person or persons who approach him.\n\nThe British Army publishes many booklets and manuals to assist soldiers in remembering the lessons of training. These have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11169151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11169151", "title": "Battle of Savra", "text": "Battle of Savra\n\nThe Battle of Savra (, , ; \"Battle on the Saurian field\") or the Battle of the Vjosë was fought on 18 September 1385 between Ottoman and much smaller Zetan forces, at the Savra field near Lushnjë (in modern-day southern Albania). The Ottomans were invited by Karlo Thopia to support him in his feud against Balša II.\n\nIn 1372, Balša II married Komnina, the daughter of John Komnenos Asen, the Despot of Valona. As a dowry, Balša gained the cities of Valona (modern Vlorë), Berat and Kanina (in modern-day southern Albania), located in Asen's province. In 1385 Balša II conquered Durazzo (modern Durrës), presumably from Karl Topia. In a charter to Ragusa issued in April 1385, he called himself \"Duke of Durazzo\". The expansion of Balšić's realm into Epirus brought him to the frontline against the Ottomans. Being aware of Ottoman aspirations to his territory, on 8 August 1385 Balša II asked Venetians to support him with four galleys.\n\nKarlo Thopia invited Ottomans to support him in conflict with Balša II. Thopia's invitation was accepted and Hayreddin Pasha brought his forces from region of Ohrid (modern-day Macedonia) to Saurian field, near Lushnjë. News about incursion of the Ottoman forces into the region of Berat reached Balša II while he was in Durrës. According to Mavro Orbini, Balša II rounded up one thousand men in Durrës and, ignoring the advice of his nobles, headed out to take on the Ottoman raiders. Unsurprisingly, Balša's small forces had little success and Balša II was killed. Orbini's work is the only source that mention Ivaniš Mrnjavčević as participant in this battle. Some scholars believe he did not even exist, while other believe that he was not independent medieval lord, but loyal member of Balšić family. Another person mentioned only by Orbini is Balša's voivode Đurađ Krvavčić, described as brave warrior who also died in this battle. Mavrini explains that body of Balša II was decapitated and his head taken to Hayreddin Pasha.\n\nSince the Ottomans were victorious, most of the local Serbian and Albanian lords became vassals. Immediately after this battle Thopia recaptured Durrës, probably under the Ottoman suzerainty. The Ottomans captured Krujë, Berat and Ulcinj and soon retreated from them keeping only Kastoria under their permanent control. Some sources explain that Ottomans probably remained in Berat with intention to use it as foothold to capture Vlorë.\n\nThe work of Mavro Orbini (\"The Realm of the Slavs\") is one of the main primary sources about this battle. It contains many incorrect and imprecise data. Another primary source about the Battle of Savra is Marin Barleti who explained that Balša II was brave and idealistic.\n\nThis battle set foundation for centuries-long Ottoman presence in this part of the Balkans. Serbian historian Stojan Novaković emphasized that the battle's importance for these Serbian and Albanian lords was comparable to that of the Battle of Marica and Battle of Kosovo together. The important result of this battle was influx of Albanians into Ottoman forces who had been a significant source of its strength during next 527 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "6699606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6699606", "title": "Berber Revolt", "text": "Berber Revolt\n\nThe Great Berber Revolt of 739/740–743 AD (122–125 AH in the Muslim calendar) took place during the reign of the Umayyad Caliph Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik and marked the first successful secession from the Arab caliphate (ruled from Damascus). Fired up by Kharijite puritan preachers, the Berber revolt against their Umayyad Arab rulers began in Tangiers in 740, and was led initially by Maysara al-Matghari. The revolt soon spread through the rest of the Maghreb (North Africa) and across the straits to al-Andalus.\n\nThe Umayyads scrambled and managed to prevent the core of Ifriqiya (Tunisia, East-Algeria and West-Libya) and al-Andalus (Spain and Portugal) from falling into rebel hands. But the rest of the Maghreb was never recovered. After failing to capture the Umayyad provincial capital of Kairouan, the Berber rebel armies dissolved, and the western Maghreb fragmented into a series of small Berber statelets, ruled by tribal chieftains and Kharijite imams. \nThe Berber revolt was probably the largest military setback in the reign of Caliph Hisham. From it, emerged some of the first Muslim states outside the Caliphate. It is sometimes also regarded as the beginning of Moroccan independence, as Morocco would never again come under the rule of an eastern Caliph or any other foreign power until the 20th century.\n\nThe underlying causes of the revolt were the policies of the Umayyad governors in Kairouan, Ifriqiya, who had authority over the Maghreb (all of North Africa west of Egypt) and al-Andalus.\n\nFrom the early days of the Muslim conquest of North Africa, Arab commanders had treated non-Arab (notably Berber) auxiliaries inconsistently, and often rather shabbily. When they arrived in North Africa the Umayyads had to face a Christian-majority population in Africa Proconsularis (which became Ifriqiya, modern-day Tunisia) and pagans in the Maghreb al-Aqsa (now Morocco) with Jewish minorities. Some Berbers of the Maghreb quickly converted and participated in the growth of Islam in the region, but the Arab authorities continued to treat them as second-class people.\n\nAlthough Berbers had undertaken much of the fighting in the Umayyad conquest of Hispania, they were given a lesser share of the spoils and frequently assigned to the harsher duties (e.g. Berbers were thrown into the vanguard while Arab forces were kept in the back; they were assigned garrison duty on the more troubled frontiers). Although the Ifriqiyan Arab governor Musa ibn Nusair had cultivated his Berber lieutenants (most famously, Tariq ibn Ziyad), his successors, notably Yazid ibn Abi Muslim, had treated their Berber forces particularly poorly.\n\nMost grievously, Arab governors continued to levy extraordinary \"dhimmi\" taxation (the \"jizyah\" and \"kharaj\") and slave-tributes on non-Arab populations that had converted to Islam, in direct contravention of Islamic law. This had become particularly routine during the caliphates of Walid I and Sulayman.\n\nIn 718, the Umayyad caliph Umar II finally forbade the levying of extraordinary taxation and slave tributes from non-Arab Muslims, defusing much of the tension. But expensive military reverses in the 720s and 730s had forced caliphal authorities to look for innovative ways to replenish their treasuries. During the caliphate of Hisham from 724, the prohibitions were sidestepped with reinterpretations (e.g. tying the \"kharaj\" land tax to the land rather than the owner, so that lands that were at any point subject to the \"kharaj\" remained under \"kharaj\" even if currently owned by a Muslim).\n\nAs a result, resentful Berbers grew receptive to radical Kharijite activists from the east (notably of Sufrite and later Ibadite persuasion) which had begun arriving in the Maghreb in the 720s. The Kharijites preached a puritan form of Islam, promising a new political order, where all Muslims would be equal, irrespective of ethnicity or tribal status, and Islamic law would be strictly adhered to. The appeal of the Kharijite message to Berber ears allowed their activists to gradually penetrate Berber regiments and population centers. Sporadic mutinies by Berber garrisons (e.g. under Munnus in Cerdanya, Spain, in 729-31) were put down with difficulty. One Ifriqiyan governor, Yazid ibn Abi Muslim, who openly resumed the \"jizya\" and humiliated his Berber guard by branding their hands, was assassinated in 721.\n\nIn 734, Ubayd Allah ibn al-Habhab was appointed Umayyad governor in Kairouan, with supervisory authority over all the Maghreb and al-Andalus. Coming in after a period of mismanagement, Ubayd Allah soon set about expanding the fiscal resources of the government by leaning heavily on the non-Arab populations, resuming the extraordinary taxation and slave-tribute without apologies. His deputies Oqba ibn al-Hajjaj al-Saluli in Córdoba (Al-Andalus) and Omar ibn el-Moradi in Tangier (Maghreb) were given similar instructions. The failure of expensive expeditions into Gaul during the period 732-737, repulsed by the Franks under Charles Martel, only increased the tax burden. The parallel failure of the caliphal armies in the east brought no fiscal relief from Damascus.\n\nThe zeal of the Umayyad tax-collectors finally broke Berber patience. It is reported that following Ubayd Allah ibn al-Habhab's instructions to extract more revenues from the Berbers, Omar ibn al-Moradi, his deputy governor in Tangiers, decided to declare the Berbers in his jurisdiction a 'conquered people' and consequently set about seizing Berber property and enslaving persons, as per the rules of conquest, the 'caliphal fifth' was still owed to the Umayyad state (alternative accounts report he simply doubled their tribute).\n\nThis was the last straw. Inspired by the Sufrite preachers, the North African Berber tribes of western Morocco - initially, the Ghomara, Berghwata and Miknasa - decided to break openly into revolt against their Arab overlords. As their leader, they chose Maysara al-Matghari, alleged by some Arab chroniclers to be a lowly water-carrier (but more probably a high Matghara Berber chieftain).\n\nThe only question was timing. The opportunity arose sometime in late 739 or early 740 (122 AH), when the powerful Ifriqiyan general Habib ibn Abi Obeida al-Fihri, who had recently been imposing his authority on the Sous valley of southern Morocco, received instructions from the Kairouan governor Ubayd Allah to lead a large expedition across the sea against Byzantine Sicily. Gathering his forces, Habib ibn Abi Obeida marched the bulk of the Ifriqiyan army out of Morocco.\n\nAs soon as the mighty Habib was safely gone, Maysara assembled his coalition of Berber armies, heads shaven in the Sufri Kharijite fashion and with Qura'nic inscriptures tied to their lances and spears, and brought them bearing down on Tangiers. The city soon fell into rebel hands and the hated governor Omar al-Moradi was killed. It was at this point that Maysara is said to have taken up the title and pretences of \"amir al-mu'minin\" (\"Commander of the Faithful\", or \"Caliph\"). Leaving a Berber garrison in Tangier under the command of Christian convert, Abd al-Allah al-Hodeij al-Ifriqi, Maysara's army proceeded to sweep down western Morocco, swelling its ranks with new adherents, overwhelming Umayyad garrisons clear from the Straits down to the Sous. One of the local governors killed by the Berbers was Ismail ibn Ubayd Allah, the very son of the Kairouan emir.\n\nThe Berber revolt surprised the Umayyad governor in Kairouan, Ubayd Allah ibn al-Habhab, who had very few troops at his disposal. He immediately dispatched messengers to his general Habib ibn Abi Obeida al-Fihri in Sicily instructing him to break off the expedition and urgently ship the Ifriqiyan army back to Africa. In the meantime, Ubayd Allah assembled a cavalry-heavy column, composed of the aristocratic Arab elite of Kairouan. He placed the nobles under the command of Khalid ibn Abi Habib al-Fihri, and dispatched it to Tangiers, to keep the Berber rebels contained, while awaiting Habib's return from Sicily. A smaller reserve army was placed under Abd al-Rahman ibn al-Mughira al-Abdari and instructed to hold Tlemcen, in case the Berber rebel army should break through the column and try to drive towards Kairouan.\n\nMaysara's Berber forces encountered the vanguard Ifrqiyan column of Khalid ibn Abi Habib somewhere in the outskirts of Tangiers After a brief skirmish with the Arab column, Maysara abruptly ordered the Berber armies to fall back to Tangier. The Arab cavalry commander Khalid ibn Abi Habiba did not give pursuit, but just held his line south of Tangier, blockading the Berber-held city, while awaiting the reinforcements from Habib's Sicilian expedition. \nIn this breathing space, the Berber rebels got reorganized and undertook an internal coup. The Berber tribal leaders swiftly deposed (and executed) Maysara and elected the Zenata Berber chieftain, Khalid ibn Hamid al-Zanati as the new Berber 'caliph'. The reasons for Maysara's fall remain obscure. Possibly the sudden cowardice shown before the Arab cavalry column proved him military unfit, possibly because the puritan Sufrite preachers found a flaw in the piety of his character, or maybe simply because the Zenata tribal chieftains, being closer to the Ifriqiyan frontline, felt they should be the ones leading the rebellion.\n\nThe new Berber leader Khalid ibn Hamid al-Zanati opted to immediately attack the idling Ifriqiyan column before they could be reinforced. The Berber rebels under Khalid ibn Hamid overwhelmed and annihilated the Arab cavalry of Khalid ibn Abi Habiba in an encounter known as the Battle of the Nobles, on account of the veritable massacre of the cream of the Ifriqiyan Arab nobility. This is tentatively dated around c. October–November, 740.\n\nThe immediate Arab reaction to the disaster shows just how unexpected this reversal was. Upon the first news of the defeat of the nobles, the reserve army of Ibn al-Mughira in Tlemcen fell into a panic. Seeing Sufrite preachers everywhere in the city, the Umayyad commander ordered his nervous Arab troops to conduct a series of round-ups in Tlemcen, several of which ended in indiscriminate massacres. This provoked a massive popular uprising in the hitherto-quiet city. The city's largely Berber population quickly drove out the Umayyad troops. The frontline of the Berber revolt now leaped to the middle Maghreb (Algeria).\n\nThe Sicilian expeditionary army of Habib ibn Abi Obeida arrived too late to prevent the massacre of the nobles. Realizing they were in no position to take on the Berber army by themselves, they retreated to Tlemcen, to gather the reserves, only to find that city too was now in disarray. There, Habib encountered Musa ibn Abi Khalid, an Umayyad captain who had bravely stayed behind in the vicinity of Tlemcen gathering what loyal forces he could find. The state of panic and confusion was such that Habib ibn Abi Obeida decided to blame the guiltless captain for the entire mess and cut off one of his hands and one of his legs in punishment.\n\nHabib ibn Abi Obeida entrenched what remained of the Ifriqiyan army in the vicinity of Tlemcen (perhaps as far back as Tahert), and called upon Kairouan for reinforcements. The request was forwarded to Damascus.\n\nCaliph Hisham, hearing the shocking news, is said to have exclaimed: \"By God, I will most certainly rage against them with an Arab rage, and I will send against them an army whose beginning is where they are and whose end is where I am!\" \n\nIt is sometimes reported that the Andalusian governor Uqba ibn al-Hajjaj dispatched an Andalusian army across the straits to support the Ifriqiyan column around Tangiers, only to be similarly defeated by the Berber rebels in late 740. But this story has been discounted by modern historians, as it is sourced principally from later al-Andalus chronicles; there is nothing in contemporary accounts referencing any such expedition.\n\nNonetheless, the news of the Berber victory in Morocco echoed through al-Andalus. Berbers heavily outnumbered Arabs in al-Andalus. Fearing the Berber garrisons in their own lands might take inspiration from their Moroccan brethren, the Andalusian Arab elite quickly deposed Obeid Allah's deputy, Uqba ibn al-Hajjaj, in January 741 and reinstated his predecessor, Abd al-Malik ibn Katan al-Fihri, a more popular figure among local Arabs and Berbers alike.\n\nIn February, 741, the Umayyad Caliph Hisham appointed Kulthum ibn Iyad al-Qasi to replace the disgraced Obeid Allah as governor in Ifriqiya. Kulthum was to be accompanied by a fresh Arab army of 30,000 - 27,000 raised from the regiments (\"junds\") of Syria and an additional 3,000 to be picked up in Egypt. Caliph Hisham appointed Kulthum's nephew Balj ibn Bishr al-Qushayri as his lieutenant and designated successor, and the Jordanian commander Thalaba ibn Salama al-Amili as his second successor (should tragedy befall the prior two).\n\nThe elite Syrian cavalry under Balj ibn Bishr, which had moved ahead of the bulk of the forces, was the first to arrive in Kairouan in the Summer of 741. Their brief stay was not a happy one. The Syrians arrived in haughty spirits and quarreled with the Kairouan city authorities, who suspicious, had given them a rather cool reception. Interpreting it as ingratitude, the Syrian barons imposed themselves on the city, billeting troops and requisitioning supplies without regard to local authorities or priorities.\n\nMoving slower with the bulk of the forces, Kulthum ibn Iyad himself did not enter Kairouan, but merely dispatched a message assigning the government of the city to Abd al-Rahman ibn Oqba al-Ghaffari, the \"qadi\" of Ifriqiya. Collecting the Syrian vanguard, Kulthum hurried along to make junction with the remaining Ifriqiyan forces (some 40,000) of Habib ibn Abi Obeida al-Fihri holding ground in the vicinity of Tlemcen.\n\nThe junction between the North African and Eastern forces did not go smoothly. News of the Syrian misbehavior in Kairouan had reached the Ifriqiyan troops, while the Syrians, incensed at the poor reception, treated their Ifriqiyan counterparts in a high-handed fashion. Habib and Balj bickered and the armies nearly came to blows. By smooth diplomacy, Kulthum ibn Iyad managed hold the armies together, but the mutual resentments would play a role in subsequent events.\n\nThe Berber rebel army, under the leadership of Khalid ibn Hamid al-Zanati (perhaps jointly with a certain Salim Abu Yusuf al-Azdi ), while boasting great numbers (some 200,000), were very poorly equipped. Many Berber fighters had nothing but stones and knives, dressed in a mere loin cloth, heads shaved in puritan fashion. But they made up for this in knowledge of the terrain, excellent morale, and a fanatical Sufrite-inspired religious fervor.\n\nThe Berber and Arab armies finally clashed at the Battle of Bagdoura (or Baqdura) in October–November, 741, by the Sebou river (near modern Fes). Disdaining the experience and cautious advice of the Ifriqiyans, Kulthum ibn Iyad made several serious tactical errors. Berber skirmishers dehorsed and isolated the Syrian cavalry, while the Berber foot fell upon the Arab infantry with overwhelming numbers. The Arab armies were quickly routed. By some estimates, two-thirds of the Arab army were killed or captured by the Berbers at Bagdoura. Among the casualties were the new governor Kulthum ibn Iyad al-Qasi and the Ifriqiyan commander Habib ibn Abi Obeida al-Fihri.\n\nThe Syrian regiments, now reduced to some 10,000, were pulled together by Kulthum's nephew, Balj ibn Bishr and scrambled up towards the straits, where they hoped to get passage across the water to al-Andalus. A small Ifriqiyan contingent, under Habib's son Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib al-Fihri, joined the Syrians in their flight, but the rest of the Ifriqiyan forces fled in a scattered way back to Kairouan. The bulk of the Berber rebel army set off in pursuit of the Syrians, and laid siege to them in Ceuta.\n\nThe Zenata Berber leader Khalid ibn Hamid al-Zanati who delivered the two great victories over the Arab armies disappears from the chronicles shortly after Bagdoura (741). But news of the defeat emboldened hitherto quiet Berber tribes to join the revolt. Berber uprisings erupted across the Maghreb and al-Andalus.\n\nThe most immediate threat arose in southern Ifriqiya, where the Sufrite leader Oqasha ibn Ayub al-Fezari raised a Berber army and laid sieges to Gabès and Gafsa. By a rapid sally south with the remnant of the Ifriqiyan army, the Kairouan \"qadi\" Abd al-Rahman ibn Oqba al-Ghaffari managed to defeat and disperse Oqasha's forces near Gafsa in December, 741. But the qadi possessed far too few Arab troops to put up a pursuit, and Oqasha immediately set about re-assembling his forces quietly around Tobna in the Zab valley of western Ifriqiya.\n\nImmediately after hearing of the disaster at Bagdoura, the Caliph Hisham ordered the Umayyad governor of Egypt, Handhala ibn Safwan al-Kalbi, to quickly take charge of Ifriqiya. In February 742, Handhala ibn Safwan hurried his Egyptian army westwards and reached Kairouan around April 742, just as Oqasha was returning to try his luck again. Handhala's forces pushed Oqasha back again.\n\nWhen Oqasha was reassembling his forces once more in the Zab, he came across a large Berber army coming from the west, under the command of the Hawwara Berber chieftain Abd al-Wahid ibn Yazid al-Hawwari (possibly dispatched by the Berber caliph Khalid ibn Hamid al-Zanati, although he is not mentioned in the chronicles). Abd al-Wahid's army was composed of some 300,000 Berber troops, ostensibly the largest Berber army ever seen. After a quick consultation, Oqasha and Abd al-Wahid agreed on a joint attack on Kairouan, Oqasha taking his forces along a southerly route, while Abd al-Wahid led his large army through the northern passes, converging on Kairouan from both sides.\n\nHearing of the approach of the great Berber armies, Handhala ibn Safwan realized it was paramount to prevent their junction. Dispatching a cavalry force to harass and slow down Abd al-Wahid in the north, Handhala threw the bulk of his forces south, crushing Oqasha in a bloody battle at El-Qarn and taking him prisoner. But Handhala had taken a lot of losses himself, and now faced the unhappy prospect of Abd al-Wahid's gigantic army. Hurrying back, Handhala is said to have put the entire population of Kairouan under arms to bolster his ranks, before setting out again. In perhaps the bloodiest encounter in the Berber wars, Handhala ibn Safwan defeated the great Berber army of Abd al-Wahid ibn Yazid at El-Asnam around May 742 (perhaps a little later), just three miles outside of Kairouan. Some 120,000-180,000 Berbers, including Abd al-Wahid, fell in the field of battle in that single encounter. Oqasha was executed shortly after.\n\nAlthough Kairouan was saved for the caliphate, and with it the core of Ifriqiya, Handhala ibn Safwan now faced the unenvious task of dragging the more westerly provinces, still under Berber sway, back into the fold. He would not have the chance to accomplish this.\n\nThe coup installing Abd al-Malik ibn Qatan al-Fihri as ruler in al-Andalus in early 741 had been a failsafe device. But once the news of the disaster at Bagdoura spread, a general Berber uprising in al-Andalus could no longer be prevented. In October 741, Berber garrisons north of the Douro River mutinied. They discarded their Arab commanders and took to the field, abandoning their garrison posts to assemble their own Berber rebel army around the center and march against the Andalusian Arabs in the south.\n\nAlthough their leaders' names have escaped us, the Andalusian Berber rebel army was organized into three columns—one to take Toledo (the main garrison city of the central march), another to aim for Córdoba (the Umayyad capital), and the third to take Algeciras, where the rebels hoped to seize the Andalusian fleet to ferry additional Berber troops from North Africa.\n\nWith the frontier garrisons in the north west suddenly evacuated, the Christian king Alfonso I of Asturias could hardly believe his luck, and set about dispatching Asturian troops to seize the empty forts. With remarkable swiftness and ease the northwestern was captured, and the banks of the upper Ebro were raided by Alfonso and permanently lost to al-Andalus. The Asturians devastated several towns and villages on the banks of the Douro River, and carried off local populations from the towns and villages in the Galician-Leonese lowlands back to the mountains, creating an empty buffer zone in the Douro River valley (the \"Desert of the Duero\") between the Asturias in the north and al-Andalus in the south. This newly emptied frontier would remain in place for the next few centuries. It is alleged that pastoral Berber mountaineers remained behind in the highlands around Astorga and León. These trapped Berber communities were called \"Maragatos\" by the local Christian Leonese (etymology uncertain, possibly from \"mauri capti\", \"captive Moors\"). Although eventually converted to Christianity, the \"Maragatos\" retained their distinctive dress, customs and lifestyle of Berber origin down to the early modern era.\n\nThrough much of the winter of 741-42, the remnant of the Syrian expedition, some 10,000 men, under Balj ibn Bishr, remained trapped in Ceuta, besieged by the Berber rebels. The Andalusian ruler Abd al-Malik ibn Qatan al-Fihri, wary that the presence of the Syrians in Al-Andalus would only aggravate matters, refused them passage across the water. Indeed, he forbade any relief of the stranded Syrians, going so far as to publicly torture to death an Andalusian merchant who had dared to dispatch a couple of grain boats to Ceuta to feed the desperate Syrians.\n\nBut news soon reached the Andalusian governor that the Berber rebel armies from the north west had been organized and were now barreling south in three columns, towards Toledo, Córdoba and Algeciras.\n\nNot having enough Arab forces at hand, the Andalusian governor Abd al-Malik realized he had little choice but to make use of the stranded Syrian force to defeat the Berber armies. In a carefully negotiated treaty, Abd al-Malik granted the Syrians permission to cross over, on the condition that they promise to return to North Africa within a year of the settlement of the Berber matter in Al-Andalus. Hostages were taken to secure Syrian compliance.\n\nThe Syrian junds under Balj ibn Bishr crossed the straits in early 742 and immediately headed to the environs of Medina-Sidonia, where they intercepted and disposed of the Berber column aiming for Algeciras. The Syrians then joined the Andalusian Arabs in crushing the main Berber rebel army in a ferocious battle outside of Córdoba in the Spring of 742. Shortly after, they proceeded to defeat the third Berber army, then laying siege to Toledo.\n\nThe Berber rebellion was quashed in Al-Andalus, but the Syrians showed no signs of intending to leave. When the Andalusian governor Abd al-Malik ibn Qatan ibn Fihri pressed the point, Balj ibn Bishr, decided to simply depose him and proclaim himself governor, invoking his credentials as designated successor to his uncle, the late Ifriqiyan governor Kulthum ibn Iyad al-Qasi. In revenge for the merchant of Ceuta, Balj ordered the elderly Ibn Qatan tortured to death.\n\nA civil war was not short in happening. Rallied by Qatan and Umayya, the sons of the late Fihrid governor, Andalusian Arabs took up arms against the Syrian \"junds\". The Syrians delivered a decisive defeat upon the Andalusian at the Battle of Aqua Portora outside of Córdoba in August 742, but Balj ibn Bishr was mortally wounded in the field. Command of the Syrian armies devolved to Thalaba ibn Salama al-Amili, and for the next few months, the Syrians remained bunkered down, while the Andalusian (soon joined by what remained of the Beber rebels), assembled in Mérida.\n\nMuch of the next few months was spent in an intercenine Arab civil war, the Berber question relegated to a secondary concern. Eventually, tiring of war, the parties, appealed to the Ifriqiyan emir Handhala ibn Safwan al-Kalbi to resolve the matter. Handhala dispatched his cousin Abu al-Khattar ibn Darar al-Kalbi as the new governor for al-Andalus. Abu al-Khattar arrived in May 743 and immediately set about restoring peace in Al-Andalus, liberating prisoners (Arab and Berber) and figuring a resolution to the displaced Syrian troops. He decided to distribute the various Syrian junds across Al-Andalus, carving out regimental fiefs in hitherto thinly-held areas: the Damascus jund was established in Elvira (Granada), the Jordan jund in Rayyu (Málaga and Archidona), the Palestine jund in Medina-Sidonia and Jerez, the Emesa (Hims) jund in Seville and Niebla and the Qinnasrin jund in Jaén. The Egypt jund was divided between Beja (Algarve) in the west and Tudmir (Murcia) in the east. (Al-Maqqari refers to an additional \"jund\" from Wasit (Iraq) that was settled in Cabra, but this \"jund\" is not recorded in other sources). The Syrian junds were allocated a third of the tax revenues collected in their regions, and given responsibilities of tax-collection and military service to the Andalusian governor.\n\nThe arrival of the Syrian \"junds\" would have tremendous implications for subsequent Andalusian history. They increased substantially the Arab element on the Iberian peninsula, and, as such, were instrumental in deepening the Muslim hold on the south, what would become the heart of al-Andalus. But they also brought trouble. Unwilling to be governed, the Syrian \"junds\" carried on an existence of autonomous feudal anarchy, severely destabilizing the power of the governor of al-Andalus.\n\nIt is common to denote 742 or 743 as the 'end' of the Great Berber Revolt, after the failure of the Berber armies to seize Kairouan or Córdoba. But the Berber hold on Morocco as well as the western and central parts of the Maghrib al-Awsat (Central Maghreb, modern-day Algeria) would continue, leading to the establishment of the Barghwata state in Tamesna by 744, Abu Qurra's state in Tlemcen by 742 and the Midrarid emirate in Sijilmassa by 758, while Arab hold would last over Al-Andalus and Ifriqiya, including the eastern part of modern-day Algeria.\n\nLater, non Berber dynasties came to power with Berber support, such as the Rustamids, a dynasty of Persian descent who by 761 established an Imamate over the area of Tahert, in modern-day Algeria, and the Sharifian Idrisids in Morocco, by 789 considered as the founder dynasty of the modern Moroccan state.\n\nBy this era, though not organized as states, many areas were ruled by Kharijite rebels such as Djerba, Wargla, Setif, Tozeur, Gafsa and the Djebel Nafusa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21647241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21647241", "title": "C. Anne Wilson", "text": "C. Anne Wilson\n\nConstance Anne Wilson (in her published works \"C. Anne Wilson\") is a British food historian. She was previously in charge of the special collection of cookery books at the Brotherton Library of the University of Leeds, Leeds, England. She published the wide-ranging \"Food and Drink in Britain\" in 1973, and her more specialised \"The Book of Marmalade: its antecedents, its history and its rôle in the world today\" won the 1984 Diagram Prize for the oddest title of the year at the Frankfurt Book Fair. In 2006 she published \"Water of Life: a history of wine-distilling and spirits; 500 BC - AD 2000\". She has edited several volumes of the proceedings of the \"Leeds Symposium on Food History and Tradition\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49906458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49906458", "title": "Catherine Glyn Davies", "text": "Catherine Glyn Davies\n\nCatherine \"Caryl\" Glyn Davies (née Catherine Glyn Jones; 26 September 1926 – 22 February 2007) was a Welsh historian of philosophy and linguistics, and a translator. \n\nCatherine Glyn Jones was born in Trealaw, Glamorgan, on 26 September 1926. Her father, William Glyn Jones (1883-1958), was a minister, and she was the eldest of four. She attended Porth county school, and in 1846, she graduated with first-class honours in French, before receiving honours in philosophy from the University College of Wales in Aberystwyth. She furthered her studies at the university and graduated in 1949 with a Masters, for which she produced the thesis \"A critical study of John Locke's examination of Père Malebranche's opinion of seeing all things in God\". She spent a year at Sorbonne in Paris after winning a Kemsley travelling fellowship. She studied the philosophic relations between England and France in the late 1600s at Sorbonne, before returning and enrolling at Somerville College, Oxford, where she authored \"The influence of John Locke on literature and thought in eighteenth century France: a study of Locke's influence on the development of the theory of knowledge in France between 1734 and 1748\" in 1954.\n\nDavies married Gareth Alban Davies (1926-2009), whom she had met at Oxford, in the summer of 1953; the couple went on to have four children, Eleri, Rhodri, Catrin and Gwen. She began translating works into Welsh; André Gide's \"La Symphonie pastorale\" was translated with her husband in 1965 and published as \"Y Deillion\". As a linguist, she authored two articles on Anton Chekhov's \"\" (1894) in 1994–95 and translated Leo Tolstoy's \"The Cossacks\" into \"Y Cosaciaid\" in 1998.\n\nDavies received a PhD at Leeds University in 1989 for a thesis entitled \"Conscience as Consciousness: the idea of self-awareness in French philosophical writing from Descartes to Diderot contains a concise but comprehensive discussion which is often referred to\", first published the following year. In 2000, authored a work on the history of Celtic scholarship entitled \"Adfeilion Babel: agweddau ar syniadaeth ieithyddol y ddeunawfed ganrif\", which according to the \"Dictionary of Welsh Biography\" traces the \"development of the ideas of grammarians, lexicographers and linguists regarding the beginnings and development of language and the inter-relationship of languages\" and discusses the work of the likes of John Davies (Mallwyd), Edward Lhuyd, and Paul-Yves Pezron and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz. She continued to research extensively, though in later years was hampered by poor eyesight.\n\nAlthough the Davies' lived in Yorkshire for three decades, they taught their children the Welsh language. She died in hospital in Aberystwyth on 22 February 2007 from septicaemia, caused by a ruptured gastric ulcer. Her funeral was held at Tabor chapel in Llangwyryfon, before she was cremated at Aberystwyth Crematorium.\n"}
{"id": "925442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925442", "title": "Charles Upson Clark", "text": "Charles Upson Clark\n\nCharles Upson Clark (1875–1960) was a professor of history at Columbia University. He discovered the Barberini Codex, the earliest Aztec writings on herbal medicines extant.\n\nCharles Upson Clark was born in 1875 to Edward Perkins Clark and Catharine Pickens Upson. Throughout his life he was the author of many books on a variety of subjects. Among them was the history of West Indies by Antonio Vázquez de Espinosa translated into English, and the modern history of Romania.\n\nHe also collaborated with the American School of Classical Studies in Rome, where he held a directory of Classical Studies and Archaeology since 1910. He died in 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20666262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20666262", "title": "Christopher Brinchmann", "text": "Christopher Brinchmann\n\nChristopher Brinchmann (1 April 1864 – 26 February 1940) was a Norwegian archivist, literary historian and critic.\n\nHe was born at Leka in Nord-Trøndelag, Norway. He worked in the National Archival Services of Norway (\"Riksarkivet\") from 1896, and was deputy director from 1922 to 1934. He was among the publishers of \"Diplomatarium Norvegicum\". Among his own works were \"Nationalforskeren P. A. Munch; hans liv og virke\" (1910), \"Grønlands overgang til Danmark\" (1922), \"Norske kongesigiller\" (1924) and \"Norges arkivsaker i Danmark\" (1927). He also edited the periodical \"Kringsjaa\", from 1898 to 1907.\n"}
{"id": "4312336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4312336", "title": "Clifford Edmund Bosworth", "text": "Clifford Edmund Bosworth\n\nClifford Edmund Bosworth FBA (29 December 1928 – 28 February 2015) was an English historian and Orientalist, specialising in Arabic and Iranian studies.\n\nBosworth was born in Sheffield, Yorkshire. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Oxford and MA and PhD degrees from the University of Edinburgh.\n\nHe held permanent posts at the University of St Andrews, University of Manchester, and at the Center for the Humanities at Princeton University. He was a visiting professor at the University of Exeter, where he held the post since 2004.\n\nBosworth died on 28 February 2015, Yeovil, Somerset.\n\nHe is the author of hundreds of articles in academic journals and composite volumes. His other contributions include nearly 200 articles in the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam\" and some 100 articles in the \"Encyclopædia Iranica\", as well as articles for \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" and \"Encyclopedia Americana\". He was the chief editor of the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam\" and a consulting editor of \"Encyclopædia Iranica\".\n\nHis book \"The Islamic Dynasties\" has been translated to Arabic and Persian.\n\n\nSome 100 articles in learned journals, composite volumes, etc.; some 200 articles in the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam\", new ed.; some 100 articles in the \"Encyclopaedia Iranica\"; articles in the \"Encyclopaedia Americana\", the \"Dictionary of the Middle Ages\"; article \"Caliphate, empire of the\" in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", 15th edition, \"Macropaedia\"; chapters in \"The Cambridge History of Iran\", vols. III, IV, V, in \"The Cambridge History of Arabic Literature\", vols. I, III, and in \"UNESCO History of Civilizations of Central Asia\", vols. IV, V; etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5115080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5115080", "title": "Dhul-Nun al-Misri", "text": "Dhul-Nun al-Misri\n\nDhūl-Nūn Abū l-Fayḍ Thawbān b. Ibrāhīm al-Miṣrī (; d. Giza, in 245/859 or 248/862), often referred to as Dhūl-Nūn al-Miṣrī or Zūl-Nūn al-Miṣrī for short, was an early Egyptian Muslim mystic and ascetic of Nubian origin. Born in Upper Egypt in 796, Dhul-Nun is said to have made some study of the scholastic disciplines of alchemy, medicine, and Greek philosophy in his early life, before coming under the mentorship of the mystic Saʿdūn of Cairo, who is described in traditional accounts of Dhul-Nun's life as both \"his teacher and spiritual director.\" Celebrated for his legendary wisdom both in his own life and by later Islamic thinkers, Dhul-Nun has been venerated in traditional Sunni Islam as one of the greatest saints of the early era of Sufism.\n\nIt has been speculated by scholars whether \"Dhul-Nun\" was an honorific (\"laqab\") for the mystic rather than his name proper, which is sometimes believed to be Thawbān. As \"Dhul-Nun,\" literally meaning \"the one of the fish [or whale],\" is another name for the Hebrew prophet Jonah in Islamic tradition, it is sometimes believed that this title was given to Dhul-Nun in commemoration of Jonah.\n\nDhul-Nun is one of the most prominent saints of early Islamic tradition, appearing \"in the earliest accounts of Ṣūfism as the leading figure of his generation.\" Often depicted as the spiritual master of Sahl al-Tustari (c. 818-896), the traditional hagiographies relate that the latter refused to engage in mystical discourse until after Dhul-Nun's death, on account of his recognition of Dhul-Nun's elevated rank in wisdom and gnosis.\n\nDhul-Nun al-Misri is considered among the most prominent saints of early Sufism and holds a position in the Sufi chronicles as high as Junayd Baghdadi (d. 910) and Bayazid Bastami (d. 874). He studied under various teachers and travelled extensively in Arabia and Syria. The Muslim scholar and Sufi Sahl al-Tustari was one of Dhul-Nun al-Misri's students. In 829 he was arrested on a charge of heresy and sent to prison in Baghdad, but after examination he was released on the caliph's orders to return to Cairo, where he died in 859; his tombstone has been preserved.\n\nDhul-Nun's name came about in relation to an incident on a sea voyage. He was falsely accused of stealing a\njewel from a merchant. He cried out \"O Creator, Thou knowest best\", whereupon a large number of fish raised their heads above the waves, each bearing a jewel in its mouth.\n\nA legendary alchemist and thaumaturge, he is supposed to have known the secret of the Egyptian hieroglyphs. His sayings and poems, which are extremely dense and rich in mystical imagery, emphasize knowledge or gnosis (\"marifah\") more than fear (\"makhafah\") or love (\"mahabbah\"), the other two major paths of spiritual realization in Sufism. None of his written works have survived, but a vast collection of poems, sayings, and aphorisms attributed to him continues to live on in oral tradition.\n\nOsho mentions him as \"an Egyptian Sufi mystic, one of the greatest who has ever walked on the earth\".\nIn the book catching the thread mentions one of the incidents of Dhul-nun ... .\"A story from the life of the\nninth-century Sufi, Dhu-l-Nun, the Egyptian, illustrates\nthis:\nI was wandering in the mountains when I\nobserved a party of afflicted folk gathered together.\n“What befell you?” I asked.\n“There is a devotee living in a cell here,” they\nanswered. “Once every year he comes out and\nbreathes on these people and they are all\nhealed. Then he returns to his cell, and does not\nemerge again until the following year.”\nI waited patiently until he came out. I beheld\na man pale of cheek, wasted and with sunken\neyes. The awe of him caused me to tremble. He\nlooked on the multitude with compassion. Then\nhe raised his eyes to heaven, and breathed\nseveral times over the afflicted ones. All were\nhealed.\nAs he was about to retire to his cell, I seized\nhis skirt. “For the love of God,” I cried. “You\nhave healed the outward sickness; pray heal the\ninward sickness.”\n“Dhu-l-Nun,” he said, gazing at me, “take\nyour hand off me. The Friend is watching from\nthe zenith of might and majesty. If He sees you\nclutching at another than He, He will abandon\nyou to that person, and that person to you, and\nyou will perish each at the other’s hand.”\nSo saying, he withdrew into his cell.\n\n"}
{"id": "3649429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3649429", "title": "Duinefontein", "text": "Duinefontein\n\nDuinefontein 1 and 2 are early prehistoric archaeological sites near Cape Town in South Africa\n\nThey have produced Acheulean stone tools and animal bones dating between 200,000 and 400,000 years ago. It was not a settlement site, but instead seems to have been a waterside location where animals could be hunted or scavenged when they died by hominids. The hominids used the tools to butcher the animals, although many of the animal bones from the site represent killings by other carnivores.\n\nOne context, from Duinefontein 2, dated by optically stimulated luminescence dating to 270,000 BP contained ochre that must have been introduced to the site by people and which may have been used as body adornment. If so, it would represent some of the earliest evidence of an aesthetic sensibility in early peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "32381608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32381608", "title": "Edgar C. Otálvora", "text": "Edgar C. Otálvora\n\nEdgar C. Otálvora (born Edgar Omar Contreras Otálvora; September 6, 1959 Tovar, Mérida State, Venezuela) is a Venezuelan intellectual, journalist, and politician who has held government and diplomatic positions. He is an expert in international politics and economics, and has distinguished himself as an analyst of Latin American topics, with a focus on military, diplomatic, and political issues. He has been a columnist in Venezuelans and Americans newspapers, in addition to directing the newspaper El Nuevo Pais\nin Caracas from 2006 to 2010. He is a professor at the Central University of Venezuela. He was a close collaborator of former Venezuelan president Ramón J. Velásquez. He has cultivated the biographical genre, being the first to write biographies of the 19th century Venezuelan presidents Raimundo Andueza Palacio and Juan Pablo Rojas Paul, as well as the Colombian president Virgilio Barco Vargas. Columnist in Diario Las Américas of Miami.\n\nHe obtained a bachelor's degree in Economics from the University of the Andes, Venezuela in 1982 and in 2003 was awarded a master's degree in History of the Americas. He has taught at the School of International Studies and the graduate History of the Americas program at the Central University of Venezuela.\nIn 1990, he was named Executive Secretary of the . In 1993 he began the role of General Director of the Ministry of the Secretariat of the Presidency, alongside Ramón J. Velásquez, who would be declared president by the National Congress after a case was opened against then-president Carlos Andrés Pérez. From 1994 to 1999 he was Chief of the Political Departments of the Venezuelan embassies in Bogotá and Brasilia, as well as Consul General in Belém do Pará, Brazil. He has been a consultant and advisor for Hewlett-Packard NCA Latin America, and the Friedrich Ebert Foundation.\n\nHis journalism career began in 1980 as a columnist for the Diario Frontera in Mérida. He was part of the writing team of the Revista AZUL of the University of the Andes . His opinion columns were first published in 1982 in the newspaper El Nacional in Caracas and, soon after, in the newspaper \"El Universal\" as a critic in the Cultural Pages directed by . In the mid-1990s, he directed the magazine Venezuela en Colombia, edited in Bogotá. Specializing in topics in Latin American politics, he wrote the column Mirando el Vecindario (Looking Around the Neighborhood) in the newspaper \"El Mundo\" from 2004 to 2006. Upon taking the role of director of the newspaper \"El Nuevo País\", he began production of Informe Otálvora, appearing in numerous online publications in Latin America.\nEditor of the news web portal Noticias Clic since 2011. Columnist in Diario Las Américas of Miami since March 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18024953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18024953", "title": "Eduardo Pareyón Moreno", "text": "Eduardo Pareyón Moreno\n\nEduardo Luis Pareyón Moreno (December 2, 1921 – March 15, 2000) was a Mexican architect and archaeologist. He was a pioneer researcher in several aspects of modern Mexican archaeology. He was born (and died) in Azcapotzalco, Federal District, to a family renowned for its contributions to the humanities and sciences.\n\nHe studied architecture at the National University and started a brilliant career assisting architect Mario Pani during projects as the new National Conservatory and the Latinoamericana Tower, both in Mexico City. However, he soon get interested with archaeologic excavations, due to the rich history of the soil in many areas where he was working as architect. Another element that influenced his first studies as archaeologist, was that during his childhood he spent many days exploring the old ruins of Teotihuacan, years before its reconstruction. Actually, Pareyón Moreno's father, colonel Eduardo Pareyón Azpeitia, was a friend of Manuel Gamio, whose work and personality had an impact during his first cultural development.\n\nHe returned to study at the National School of Anthropology, where he completed his master dissertation \"Excavations at the archaeologic zone of Cerro del Tepalcate\" (1961).\n\nFrom 1955 to 1959 was assistant of Alfonso Caso during excavation and register works in archaeological sites in Quiotepec, Tecomavaca, Los Cues, and Cuicatlán, Oaxaca.\n\nIn 1959 was named director of the Museum of Popular Arts at Pátzcuaro, Michoacán.\n\nAround 1960 Pareyon was exploring and mapping archaeological sites in the low basin of the Balsas River, at El Infiernillo Dam. In 1961-62 he conducted the reconstruction of the Tenayuca pyramid superposition 6, and was exploring Huejotla, Texcoco archaeological site. In 1964 the INAH assigns him the whole reconstruction of Santa Cecilia Acatitla ruins, Estado de México.\n\nIn 1970 he was named Chief of Archaeological Sites Maintenance of INAH. During the same year he moved to Palenque, with the task of developing the studies on the unknown surroundings of the site. In 1972 he conducted consolidation works at Tulum ruins, and in 1973 he developed the project for the Archaeological Museum of Tlapacoya, Estado de México. During 1975 was in charge of developing excavations and reconstructive tasks in Calixtlahuaca, and later in Tepetlaoztoc (1978), and in Ex-Convent of Churubusco (1980–81).\n\nHis most important contributions to Mexican archaeology were the recovering of the ruins of Santa Cecilia Acatitlan and the studies about the yacatas structures in the Michoacán area of Tzintzuntzan. He also initiated the archaeological works showing the mural paintings of the Cholula pyramid in Puebla.\n\nHe taught history of Mexican art and architecture during 35 years, at the National School of Anthropology and the National Academy of San Carlos, in Mexico City.\n\nHe was accepted to the Membership of the Society for American Archaeology, 1962.[2]\n\n\n[2] \"Back Matter\", American Antiquity, Vol. 28, No. 3 (Jan., 1963), p. 432. Published by: Society for American Archaeology\n\n\n"}
{"id": "973611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=973611", "title": "Edward Kynaston", "text": "Edward Kynaston\n\nEdward Kynaston (c. 1640 – January 1706) was an English actor, one of the last Restoration \"boy players\", young male actors who played women's roles.\n\nKynaston was good looking and made a convincing woman: Samuel Pepys called him \"the loveliest lady that ever I saw in my life\" after seeing him in a production of John Fletcher's \"The Loyal Subject\" at the Cockpit-in-Court, \"only her voice [is] not very good\". He also played the title role in Ben Jonson's \"Epicoene\". Pepys had dinner with Kynaston after this production on 18 August 1660.\n\nSimultaneously, Kynaston played male roles as well. He filled the role of Otto in \"Rollo Duke of Normandy\" on 6 December 1660, having played the female role of Arthiope in the same play in previous weeks. On 7 January 1661, Kynaston played three roles in a performance of Jonson's \"Epicoene\", one female and two male.\n\nPart of Kynaston's appeal may have been his ambiguous sexuality. The actor Colley Cibber recalled: \"the Ladies of Quality prided themselves in taking him with them in their Coaches to Hyde-Park in his Theatrical Habit, after the Play.\"\nCibber also reported that a performance of a tragedy attended by Charles II was once delayed because, as someone explained, Kynaston, who was playing the Queen, \"was not shav'd\".\n\nIn the 1660s women were permitted to appear on stage and male actors playing female roles in serious drama was strongly discouraged. Kynaston's last female role was as Evadne in Beaumont and Fletcher's \"The Maid's Tragedy\" with Thomas Killigrew's King's Company in 1661. \n\nDescribed by Samuel Pepys as \"the prettiest woman in the whole house\" and \"the handsomest man\", the rumor of the time had him playing female roles off stage as well. When already in his thirties, lampoons circulated that made him out to be the lover of George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham.\n\nKynaston went on to make a successful career in male roles and was noted for his portrayal of Shakespeare's \"Henry IV\". He retired in 1699.\n\nKynaston is played by Billy Crudup in the 2004 film \"Stage Beauty\" directed by Sir Richard Eyre. He is represented as a foppish bisexual, who slowly reveals more complexity in his personality and sexuality. The film is an adaptation of the play \"Compleat Female Stage Beauty\" by Jeffrey Hatcher. In 2012, the Houston Grand Opera announced a new opera by Carlisle Floyd, with the actor as protagonist, is to be premiered in March 2016. He also appeared as a character in \"Nell Gwynn\", played by Greg Haiste in the premiere production in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "682434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682434", "title": "Girolamo Mei", "text": "Girolamo Mei\n\nGirolamo Mei (27 May 1519 – July 1594) was an Italian historian and humanist, famous in music history for providing the intellectual impetus to the Florentine Camerata, which attempted to revive ancient Greek music drama. He was born Florence, and died in Rome. He also used the pseudonym Decimo Corinella da Peretola.\n\nMei was the first European after Boethius to do a detailed study of ancient Greek music theory. He compiled his findings in a major treatise, \"De modis musicis antiquorum\" (not formally published, but written 1568 to 1573). Many of his findings he communicated to Vincenzo Galilei through an extensive correspondence; this information was decisive in the formation of the new musical style which was developing in Florence at the end of the 16th century, the new recitative style (\"stile recitativo\") from which developed monody, the first music dramas, and eventually opera. Galilei and the others in the Florentine Camerata were determined to revive the musical style of ancient Greek drama, and while they may have been mistaken, ultimately, in how it was actually performed, they began, using ideas from Mei, one of the greatest revolutions in music history.\n\nMei also edited and annotated the tragedies of Aeschylus and Euripides, as well as many other works by classical writers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1591936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591936", "title": "History of books", "text": "History of books\n\nThe history of books starts with the development of writing, and various other inventions such as paper and printing, and continues through to the modern day business of book printing. The earliest history of books actually predates what would conventionally be called \"books\" today and begins with tablets, scrolls, and sheets of papyrus. Then hand-bound, expensive, and elaborate books known as codices appeared. These gave way to press-printed volumes and eventually lead to the mass printed tomes prevalent today. Contemporary books may even have no physical presence with the advent of the e-book. The book also became more accessible to the disabled with the advent of Braille and spoken books.\n\nClay tablets were used in Mesopotamia in the 3rd millennium BC. The calamus, an instrument in the form of a triangle, was used to make characters in moist clay. People used to use fire to dry the tablets out. At Nineveh, over 20,000 tablets were found, dating from the 7th century BC; this was the archive and library of the kings of Assyria, who had workshops of copyists and conservationists at their disposal. This presupposes a degree of organization with respect to books, consideration given to conservation, classification, etc. Tablets were used right up until the 19th century in various parts of the world, including Germany, Chile, Philippines and the Saharan Desert.\n\nWriting originated as a form of record keeping in Sumer during the fourth millennium BCE with the advent of cuneiform. Many clay tablets have been found that show cuneiform writing used to record legal contracts, create lists of assets, and eventually to record Sumerian literature and myths. Scribal schools have been found by archaeologists from as early as the second millennium BCE where students were taught the art of writing.\n\nAfter extracting the marrow from the stems of Papyrus reed, a series of steps (humidification, pressing, drying, gluing, and cutting) produced media of variable quality, the best being used for sacred writing. In Ancient Egypt, papyrus was used as a medium for writing surfaces, maybe as early as from First Dynasty, but first evidence is from the account books of King Neferirkare Kakai of the Fifth Dynasty (about 2400 BC). A calamus, the stem of a reed sharpened to a point, or bird feathers were used for writing. The script of Egyptian scribes was called hieratic, or sacerdotal writing; it is not hieroglyphic, but a simplified form more adapted to manuscript writing (hieroglyphs usually being engraved or painted). Egyptians exported papyrus to other Mediterranean civilizations including Greece and Rome where it was used until parchment was developed.\n\nPapyrus books were in the form of a scroll of several sheets pasted together, for a total length of 10 meters or more. Some books, such as the history of the reign of Ramses III, were over 40 meters long. Books rolled out horizontally; the text occupied one side, and was divided into columns. The title was indicated by a label attached to the cylinder containing the book. Many papyrus texts come from tombs, where prayers and sacred texts were deposited (such as the Book of the Dead, from the early 2nd millennium BC).\n\nBefore the introduction of books, writing on bone, shells, wood and silk was prevalent in China long before the 2nd century BC, until paper was invented in China around the 1st century AD. China's first recognizable books, called jiance or jiandu, were made of rolls of thin split and dried bamboo bound together with hemp, silk, or leather. The discovery of the process using the bark of the blackberry bush to create paper is attributed to Ts'ai Lun (the cousin of Kar-Shun), but it may be older. Texts were reproduced by woodblock printing; the diffusion of Buddhist texts was a main impetus to large-scale production. The format of the book evolved with intermediate stages of scrolls folded concertina-style, scrolls bound at one edge (\"butterfly books\") and so on.\n\nAlthough there is no exact date known, between 618 and 907 AD–The period of the Tang Dynasty–the first printing of books started in China. The oldest extant printed book is a work of the Diamond Sutra and dates back to 868 AD, during the Tang Dynasty. The Diamond Sutra was printed by method of woodblock printing, a strenuous method in which the text to be printed would be carved into a woodblock's surface, essentially to be used to stamp the words onto the writing surface medium. Woodblock printing was a common process for the reproduction of already handwritten texts during the earliest stages of book printing. This process was incredibly time-consuming.\n\nBecause of the meticulous and time-consuming process that woodblock printing was, Bi Sheng, a key contributor to the history of printing, invented the process of movable type printing (1041-1048 AD). Bi Sheng developed a printing process in which written text could be copied with the use of formed character types, the earliest types being made of ceramic or clay material. The method of movable type printing would later become improved by Johannes Gutenberg.\n\nIn Mesoamerica, information was recorded on long strips of paper, agave fibers, or animal hides, which were then folded and protected by wooden covers. These were thought to have existed since the time of the Classical Period between the 3rd and 8th centuries, CE. Many of these codices were thought to contain astrological information, religious calendars, knowledge about the gods, genealogies of the rulers, cartographic information, and tribute collection. Many of these codices were stored in temples but were ultimately destroyed by the Spanish explorers.\n\nCurrently, the only completely deciphered pre-Columbian writing system is the Maya script. The Maya, along with several other cultures in Mesoamerica, constructed concertina-style books written on Amate paper. Nearly all Mayan texts were destroyed by the Spanish during colonization on cultural and religious grounds. One of the few surviving examples is the Dresden Codex.\n\nAlthough only the Maya have been shown to have a writing system capable of conveying any concept that can be conveyed via speech (at about the same level as the modern Japanese writing system), other Mesoamerican cultures had more rudimentary ideographical writing systems which were contained in similar concertina-style books, one such example being the Aztec codices.\n\nThere are more than 2,000 illustrations drawn by native artists that represent this era. Bernardino de Sahagun tells the story of Aztec people’s lives and their natural history. The Florentine Codex speaks about the culture religious cosmology and ritual practices, society, economics, and natural history of the Aztec people. The manuscript are arranged in both the Nahuatl language and in Spanish. The English translation of the complete Nahuatl text of all twelve volumes of the Florentine Codex took ten years. Arthur J.O. Anderson and Charles Dibble had a decade of long work but made it an important contribution to Mesoamerican ethnohistory. Years later, in 1979, the Mexican government published a full-color volume of the Florentine Codex. Now, since 2012, it is available digitally and fully accessible to those interested in Mexican and Aztec History.\n\nThe Florentine Codex is a 16th century ethnographic research study brought about by the Spanish Franciscan friar Bernardino de Sahagun. The codex itself was actually named \"La Historia Universal de las Cosas de Nueva España.\" Bernardino de Sahagun worked on this project from 1545 up until his death in 1590. The Florentine Codex consist of twelve books. It is 2400 pages long but divided into the twelve books by categories such as; The Gods, Ceremonies, Omens, and other cultural aspects of Aztec people.\n\nRomans used wax-coated wooden tablets or \"pugillares\" upon which they could write and erase by using a stylus. One end of the stylus was pointed, and the other was spherical. Usually these tablets were used for everyday purposes (accounting, notes) and for teaching writing to children, according to the methods discussed by Quintilian in his \"Institutio Oratoria\" X Chapter 3. Several of these tablets could be assembled in a form similar to a codex. Also the etymology of the word codex (block of wood) suggest that it may have developed from wooden wax tablets.\n\nParchment progressively replaced papyrus. Legend attributes its invention to Eumenes II, the king of Pergamon, from which comes the name \"pergamineum,\" which became \"parchment.\" Its production began around the 3rd century BC. Made using the skins of animals (sheep, cattle, donkey, antelope, etc.), parchment proved to be easier to conserve over time; it was more solid, and allowed one to erase text. It was a very expensive medium because of the rarity of material and the time required to produce a document. Vellum is the finest quality of parchment.\n\nThe scroll of papyrus is called \"volumen\" in Latin, a word which signifies \"circular movement,\" \"roll,\" \"spiral,\" \"whirlpool,\" \"revolution\" (similar, perhaps, to the modern English interpretation of \"swirl\") and finally \"a roll of writing paper, a rolled manuscript, or a book.\"\nIn the 7th century Isidore of Seville explains the relation between codex, book and scroll in his \"Etymologiae\" (VI.13) as this:\nThe scroll is rolled around two vertical wooden axes. This design allows only sequential usage; one is obliged to read the text in the order in which it is written, and it is impossible to place a marker in order to directly access a precise point in the text. It is comparable to modern video cassettes. Moreover, the reader must use both hands to hold on to the vertical wooden rolls and therefore cannot read and write at the same time. The only volumen in common usage today is the Jewish Torah.\n\nThe authors of Antiquity had no rights concerning their published works; there were neither authors' nor publishing rights. Anyone could have a text recopied, and even alter its contents. Scribes earned money and authors earned mostly glory, unless a patron provided cash; a book made its author famous. This followed the traditional conception of the culture: an author stuck to several models, which he imitated and attempted to improve. The status of the author was not regarded as absolutely personal.\n\nFrom a political and religious point of view, books were censored very early: the works of Protagoras were burned because he was a proponent of agnosticism and argued that one could not know whether or not the gods existed. Generally, cultural conflicts led to important periods of book destruction: in 303, the emperor Diocletian ordered the burning of Christian texts. Some Christians later burned libraries, and especially heretical or non-canonical Christian texts. These practices are found throughout human history but have ended in many nations today. A few nations today still greatly censor and even burn books.\n\nBut there also exists a less visible but nonetheless effective form of censorship when books are reserved for the elite; the book was not originally a medium for expressive liberty. It may serve to confirm the values of a political system, as during the reign of the emperor Augustus, who skillfully surrounded himself with great authors. This is a good ancient example of the control of the media by a political power. However, private and public censorship have continued into the modern era, albeit in various forms.\n\nLittle information concerning books in Ancient Greece survives. Several vases (6th and 5th centuries BC) bear images of volumina. There was undoubtedly no extensive trade in books, but there existed several sites devoted to the sale of books.\n\nThe spread of books, and attention to their cataloging and conservation, as well as literary criticism developed during the Hellenistic period with the creation of large libraries in response to the desire for knowledge exemplified by Aristotle. These libraries were undoubtedly also built as demonstrations of political prestige:\n\nThe libraries had copyist workshops, and the general organisation of books allowed for the following:\n\nBook production developed in Rome in the 1st century BC with Latin literature that had been influenced by the Greek. Conservative estimates places the number of potential readers in Imperial Rome at around 100,000 people.\n\nThis diffusion primarily concerned circles of literary individuals. Atticus was the editor of his friend Cicero. However, the book business progressively extended itself through the Roman Empire; for example, there were bookstores in Lyon. The spread of the book was aided by the extension of the Empire, which implied the imposition of the Latin tongue on a great number of people (in Spain, Africa, etc.).\n\nLibraries were private or created at the behest of an individual. Julius Caesar, for example, wanted to establish one in Rome, proving that libraries were signs of political prestige.\n\nIn the year 377, there were 28 libraries in Rome, and it is known that there were many smaller libraries in other cities. Despite the great distribution of books, scientists do not have a complete picture as to the literary scene in antiquity as thousands of books have been lost through time.\n\nPapermaking has traditionally been traced to China about AD 105, when Cai Lun, an official attached to the Imperial court during the Han Dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD), created a sheet of paper using mulberry and other bast fibres along with fishnets, old rags, and hemp waste.\n\nWhile paper used for wrapping and padding was used in China since the 2nd century BC, paper used as a writing medium only became widespread by the 3rd century. By the 6th century in China, sheets of paper were beginning to be used for toilet paper as well. During the Tang Dynasty (618–907 AD) paper was folded and sewn into square bags to preserve the flavor of tea. The Song Dynasty (960–1279) that followed was the first government to issue paper currency.\n\nAn important development was the mechanization of paper manufacture by medieval papermakers. The introduction of water-powered paper mills, the first certain evidence of which dates to the 11th century in Córdoba, Spain, allowed for a massive expansion of production and replaced the laborious handcraft characteristic of both Chinese and Muslim papermaking. Papermaking centres began to multiply in the late 13th century in Italy, reducing the price of paper to one sixth of parchment and then falling further.\n\nBy the end of antiquity, between the 2nd and 4th centuries, the scroll was replaced by the codex. The book was no longer a continuous roll, but a collection of sheets attached at the back. It became possible to access a precise point in the text quickly. The codex is equally easy to rest on a table, which permits the reader to take notes while he or she is reading. The codex form improved with the separation of words, capital letters, and punctuation, which permitted silent reading. Tables of contents and indices facilitated direct access to information. This form was so effective that it is still the standard book form, over 1500 years after its appearance.\n\nPaper would progressively replace parchment. Cheaper to produce, it allowed a greater diffusion of books.\n\nA number of Christian books were destroyed at the order of Diocletian in 304 AD. During the turbulent periods of the invasions, it was the monasteries that conserved religious texts and certain works of Antiquity for the West. But there would also be important copying centers in Byzantium.\n\nThe role of monasteries in the conservation of books is not without some ambiguity:\n\nDespite this ambiguity, monasteries in the West and the Eastern Empire permitted the conservation of a certain number of secular texts, and several libraries were created: for example, Cassiodorus ('Vivarum' in Calabria, around 550), or Constantine I in Constantinople. There were several libraries, but the survival of books often depended on political battles and ideologies, which sometimes entailed massive destruction of books or difficulties in production (for example, the distribution of books during the Iconoclasm between 730 and 842). A long list of very old and surviving libraries that now form part of the Vatican Archives can be found in the Catholic Encyclopedia.\n\nA very strong example of the early copying and conserving books is that of the Quran. After Muhammad, his companion Abu Bakr, on the recommendation of Umar Bin Alkhattab, assigned Zayd bin Saabit to compile the first official scripture of the Quran. Zayd collected all the available scriptures of the Quran scripted by different companions of Muhammad during his life. He compiled one scripture and got it verified by all the companions who had memorized the whole book while Muhammad was alive. Then this first official scripture was kept at the house of Hafsa, the wife of the Muhammad. By the time of the third caliph Uthmaan, the Islamic state had spread over a large portion of the known world. He ordered the preparation of the official copies of the first official scripture. The copies were duly verified for accuracy. These copies were sent to each city of the caliphate so that further copies can be made locally with the perfect accuracy.\n\nTo help preserve books and protect them from thieves, librarians would create chained libraries. Chained Libraries were books displayed next to each other to create a tight bond. This eliminated unauthorised removal of books. One of the earliest chained libraries was in England during the 1500s. Popular culture also has examples of chained libraries, such as in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone by J.K Rowling.\n\nThe scriptorium was the workroom of monk copyists; here, books were copied, decorated, rebound, and conserved. The armarius directed the work and played the role of librarian.\n\nThe role of the copyist was multifaceted: for example, thanks to their work, texts circulated from one monastery to another. Copies also allowed monks to learn texts and to perfect their religious education. The relationship with the book thus defined itself according to an intellectual relationship with God. But if these copies were sometimes made for the monks themselves, there were also copies made on demand.\n\nThe task of copying itself had several phases: the preparation of the manuscript in the form of notebooks once the work was complete, the presentation of pages, the copying itself, revision, correction of errors, decoration, and binding. The book therefore required a variety of competencies, which often made a manuscript a collective effort.\n\nThe revival of cities in Europe would change the conditions of book production and extend its influence, and the monastic period of the book would come to an end. This revival accompanied the intellectual renaissance of the period. The Manuscript culture outside of the monastery developed in these university-cities in Europe in this time. It is around the first universities that new structures of production developed: reference manuscripts were used by students and professors for teaching theology and liberal arts. The development of commerce and of the bourgeoisie brought with it a demand for specialized and general texts (law, history, novels, etc.). It is in this period that writing in the common vernacular developed (courtly poetry, novels, etc.). Commercial scriptoria became common, and the profession of book seller came into being, sometimes dealing internationally.\n\nThere is also the creation of royal libraries as in the case of Saint Louis and Charles V. Books were also collected in private libraries, which became more common in the 14th and 15th centuries.\n\nThe use of paper diffused through Europe in the 14th century. This material, less expensive than parchment, came from China via the Arabs in Spain in the 11th and 12th centuries. It was used in particular for ordinary copies, while parchment was used for luxury editions.\n\nThe invention of the moveable type on the printing press by Johann Fust, Peter Schoffer and Johannes Gutenberg around 1440 marks the entry of the book into the industrial age. The Western book was no longer a single object, written or reproduced by request. The publication of a book became an enterprise, requiring capital for its realization and a market for its distribution. The cost of each individual book (in a large edition) was lowered enormously, which in turn increased the distribution of books. The book in codex form and printed on paper, as we know it today, dates from the 15th century. Books printed before January 1, 1501, are called incunables. The spreading of book printing all over Europe occurred relatively quickly, but most books were still printed in Latin. The spreading of the concept of printing books in the vernacular was a somewhat slower process.\n\n\nDuring the Enlightenment more books began to pour off European presses, creating an early form of information overload for many readers. Nowhere was this more the case than in Enlightenment Scotland, where students were exposed to a wide variety of books during their education. The demands of the British and Foreign Bible Society (founded 1804), the American Bible Society (founded 1816), and other non-denominational publishers for enormously large inexpensive runs of texts led to numerous innovations. The introduction of steam printing presses a little before 1820, closely followed by new steam paper mills, constituted the two most major innovations. Together, they caused book prices to drop and the number of books to increase considerably. Numerous bibliographic features, like the positioning and formulation of titles and subtitles, were also affected by this new production method. New types of documents appeared later in the 19th century: photography, sound recording and film.\n\nTypewriters and eventually computer based word processors and printers let people print and put together their own documents. Desktop publishing is common in the 21st century.\n\nAmong a series of developments that occurred in the 1990s, the spread of digital multimedia, which encodes texts, images, animations, and sounds in a unique and simple form was notable for the book publishing industry. Hypertext further improved access to information. Finally, the internet lowered production and distribution costs.\n\nIt is difficult to predict the future of the book in an era of fast-paced technological change. Anxieties about the \"death of books\" have been expressed throughout the history of the medium, perceived as threatened by competing media such as radio, television, and the Internet. However, these views are generally exaggerated, and \"dominated by fetishism, fears about the end of humanism and ideas of techno-fundamentalist progress\". The print book medium has proven to be very resilient and adaptable.\n\nA good deal of reference material, designed for direct access instead of sequential reading, as for example encyclopedias, exists less and less in the form of books and increasingly on the web. Leisure reading materials are increasingly published in e-reader formats.\n\nAlthough electronic books, or e-books, had limited success in the early years, and readers were resistant at the outset, the demand for books in this format has grown dramatically, primarily because of the popularity of e-reader devices and as the number of available titles in this format has increased. Since the Amazon Kindle was released in 2007, the e-book has become a digital phenomenon and many theorize that it will take over hardback and paper books in future. E-books are much more accessible and easier to buy and it’s also cheaper to purchase an E-Book rather than its physical counterpart due to paper expenses being deducted. Another important factor in the increasing popularity of the e-reader is its continuous diversification. Many e-readers now support basic operating systems, which facilitate email and other simple functions. The iPad is the most obvious example of this trend, but even mobile phones can host e-reading software.\n\nBraille is a system of reading and writing through the use of the finger tips. Braille was developed as a system of efficient communication for blind and partially blind alike. The system consists of sixty-three characters and is read left to right. These characters are made with small raised dots in two columns similar to a modern domino piece to represent each letter. Readers can identify characters with two fingers. Reading speed averages one hundred and twenty-five words per minute and can reach two hundred words per minute.\n\nBraille was named after its creator Louis Braille in 1824 in France. Braille stabbed himself in the eyes at the age of three with his father's leather working tools. Braille spent nine years working on a previous system of communication called night writing by Charles Barbier. Braille published his book \"procedure for writing words, music, and plainsong in dots\", in 1829. In 1854 France made Braille the \"official communication system for blind individuals\". Valentin Haüy was the first person to put Braille on paper in the form of a book. In 1932 Braille became accepted and used in English speaking countries. In 1965 the Nemeth Code of Braille Mathematics and Scientific Notation was created. The code was developed to assign symbols to advanced mathematical notations and operations. The system has remained the same, only minor adjustments have been made to it since its creation.\n\nThe spoken book was originally created in the 1930s to provide the blind and visually impaired with a medium to enjoy books. In 1932 the American Foundation for the Blind created the first recordings of spoken books on vinyl records. In 1935, a British based foundation, Royal National Institute for the Blind (RNIB), was the first to deliver talking books to the blind on vinyl records. Each record contained about thirty minutes of audio on both sides, and the records were played on a gramophone. Spoken books changed mediums in the 1960s with the transition from vinyl records to cassette tapes. The next progression of spoken books came in the 1980s with the widespread use of compact discs. Compact discs reached more people and made it possible to listen to books in the car. In 1995 the term audiobook became the industry standard. Finally, the internet enabled audiobooks to become more accessible and portable. Audiobooks could now be played in their entirety instead of being split onto multiple disks.\n\nThe history of the book as an academic discipline studies the production, transmission, circulation and dissemination of text from antiquity to the present day. Its scope includes the book as object, the history of ideas, history of religion, bibliography, conservation, curation and the future of the book.\n\nThe history of the book came into existence in the latter half of the 20th century. It was fostered by William Ivins Jr.'s \"Prints and Visual Communication\" (1953) and Henri-Jean Martin and Lucien Febvre's \"L'apparition du livre\" (\"The Coming of the Book: The Impact of Printing, 1450–1800\") in 1958 as well as Marshall McLuhan's \"Gutenberg Galaxy: The Making of Typographic Man\" (1962). Another notable pioneer in the History of the Book is Robert Darnton.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12017654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12017654", "title": "Janet Abu-Lughod", "text": "Janet Abu-Lughod\n\nJanet Lippman Abu-Lughod (August 3, 1928 – December 14, 2013) was an American sociologist with major contributions to World-systems theory and Urban sociology.\n\nShe was married in 1951–1991 to Ibrahim Abu-Lughod. They had four children; Lila, Mariam, Deena, and Jawad.\n\nWhile still at high school she was influenced by the works of Lewis Mumford about urbanization.\n\nJanet Abu-Lughod held graduate degrees from the University of Chicago and University of Massachusetts Amherst. Her teaching career began at the University of Illinois, took her to the American University in Cairo, Smith College, and Northwestern University, where she taught for twenty years and directed several urban studies programmes. In 1987 she accepted a professorship in sociology and historical studies at the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research, from which she retired as professor emerita in 1998. She published over a hundred articles and thirteen books dealing with urban sociology, the history and dynamics of the World System, and Middle Eastern cities, including an urban history of Cairo that is still considered one of the classic works on that city: \"Cairo: 1001 Years of the City Victorious\".\n\nIn 1976 she was awarded a John Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship for Sociology.\n\nShe was especially famous for her monograph \"\" where she argued that a pre-modern world system extending across Eurasia existed in the 13th Century, prior to the formation of the modern world-system identified by Immanuel Wallerstein. In addition, she argued that the \"rise of the West,\" beginning with the intrusion of armed Portuguese ships into the relatively peaceful trade networks of the Indian Ocean in the 16th century, was not a result of features internal to Europe, but was made possible by a collapse in the previous world system.\n\nShe published several well-received works on American cities including \"New York, Chicago, Los Angeles: America's Global Cities\" and \"Race, Space, and Riots in Chicago, New York, and Los Angeles\".\n\nShe died aged 85 in New York City on December 14, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "5151917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5151917", "title": "Johannes Lucius", "text": "Johannes Lucius\n\nJohannes Lucius (; ; September, 1604 – January 11, 1679) was a Dalmatian historian, whose greatest work is \"De regno Dalmatiae et Croatiae\" (\"On the Kingdom of Dalmatia and Croatia\"), which includes valuable historical sources, a bibliography and six historical maps.\n\nBorn in September 1640 in Trogir in a noble family, Lucius studied in Trogir and Rome, graduating philosophy, mathematics, political sciences and literature in 1628, and receiving Ph.D. in civil and canonical law in 1630. Following graduation, he worked as councilmen and judge in his hometown and developed intensive scientific-research work. His first book \"Vita B. Ioannis confessoris episcopi Traguriensis et eius miracula\" [Life of St. John the Confessor, Bishop of Trogir] (1657) is an important source of Croatian, and especially Dalmatian, history between 11th and 13th centuries. His capital work is \"De regno Dalmatiae et Croatiae\" [On the Kingdom of Dalmatia and Croatia] (1662) in which he described the history of Dalmatia between the Roman times and 1480. The book contains the genealogy of Croatian dukes and kings and six historical Illyrian maps, regarded in Croatia as \"the first Croatian atlas\". The best known is map no. 6, \"Illyricum hodiernum\" [Present-day Illyricum], which Lucius dedicated to the Croatian ban Petar Zrinski, later included in Blaeu's Atlas Maior. In the book \"Memorie istoriche di Tragurio ora detto Traù\" [Historical testimonies about Trogir, now called Traù], he described the history of Trogir and Dalmatia to the mid 15th century. His book \"Inscriptiones Dalmaticae\" [Dalmatian Inscriptions] (1673) contains inscriptions and epigraphic monuments from Dalmatian heritage. In addition to his many other historical works, Lucius also engaged in archeology, geography, mathematics, physics, astronomy, construction and studying of ancient Christian monuments, Roman mosaics and inscriptions.\n\nHe was a member of the Pontifical Croatian College of St. Jerome in whose catacombs he was buried after his death in January 1679. Today, Lucius is widely regarded in Croatia as \"the father of modern Croatian historiography\".\n\nJohannes was the son of Peter Lucius and Clara Difnico (Klara Divnić), born in Trogir, Venetian Dalmatia (now Croatia). After some schooling in his hometown, he went to Rome, where he spent two years, and then obtained his Ph.D. in ecclesiastical and civil law in the University of Padua. He returned to Trogir, and held various offices, but he returned to Rome in 1654. There he became a member of the Fraternity of Saint Jerome, and then its president. He participated in the work of many scientific academies of his age and wrote to scientists from Dalmatia, Italy and Europe.\n\nHe wrote a number of historical works in Italian and Latin. His greatest and most famous work is \"De regno Dalmatiae et Croatiae\" (\"The Kingdom of Dalmatia and Croatia\"). The book was published after the war of Candia, a critical moment for the Republic of Venice. In his book Lucius pointed out the difference between the Romance and Slavic Dalmatia, the habits of the people and the cultural borderlines.\n\nIt was first printed in Amsterdam in 1666. This book provides an overview of both, the history of Dalmatia and history of Croatia, from the prehistory to the 15th century. While his predecessors and contemporaries used suppositions as much as facts, Lucius founded his estimates on genuine sources. At the end of the book, he included certain valuable historical sources and a bibliography with his comments. The book had six historical maps. One of maps, the historical map \"Illyricum hodiernum\" (today's \"Illyria\") was dedicated by Joan Blaeu, Lucius' publisher to the Croatian ban Petar Zrinski. Since everyone was looking up to antiquity, the Zrinski believed their ancestors were Roman aristocrats. Lucius showed them that their roots reached back to the famous medieval dukes of Šubićs noble family from Bribir.\n\nLucius participated in the dispute about the authenticity of the text of \"Trimalchio's Banquet\" by the Roman satirist Petronius, which had been found in Trogir.\n\nHe also published the history of his home town in \"Memoriae istoriche di Tragurio, ora detto Trau\" (\"Trogir in Historical Literature\"; 1673). He also published a book of Roman inscriptions from Dalmatia, including the inscriptions collected by the famous Croatian poet and writer Marko Marulić. Shortly before his death, Lucius prepared the Statute of Trogir for printing.\n\nLucius was never married. He resided in Rome until his death, and was buried there, in the Church of St. Jerome. A monument was erected to his memory in 1740.\n\nJohannes Lucius was the first Dalmatian historian who critically examined and used historical sources: documents and chronicles, inscriptions and last wills. His historical methodology was far ahead of his time.\n\nHe corresponded with many famous people from Republic of Ragusa (Dubrovnik), especially Stefano Gradi, the head of the Vatican Library. His numerous letters, revealing him as a man of integrity and a skilful writer are a valuable fresco of the conditions of his time.\n\nLucius' work, written in a lapidary and clear style, based on critical considerations, is the cornerstone of the modern historiography about Dalmatia. Today in Croatia, Lucius is considered the father of modern contemporary Croatian historiography.\n\nThe following are his principal published works:\n\n"}
{"id": "57045219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57045219", "title": "Joseph Tartakovsky", "text": "Joseph Tartakovsky\n\nJoseph Tartakovsky is an American lawyer, writer, and historian, and the former Deputy Solicitor General of Nevada.\n\nMost recently, he authored \"The Lives of the Constitution: Ten Exceptional Minds that Shaped America’s Supreme Law\". At the Claremont Institute, he is the James Wilson Fellow in Constitutional Law for the Study of Statesmanship and Political Philosophy. He is also a Contributing Editor at the Claremont Review of Books.\n\nHis writings appear in publications that include the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and Los Angeles Times.\n\nTartakovsky and his wife, Tahlia, have two children and live in San Francisco.\n\nJoseph Tartakovsky served as a law clerk to Judge Paul K. Kelly, Jr., of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. He was an associate at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLC, an international law firm, in San Francisco, where he practiced in criminal defense and civil litigation.\n\nIn 2015, he was appointed Nevada's first Deputy Solicitor General by Adam Laxalt. He served until 2018. In that position he helped oversee Nevada's legal strategy for major litigation in state and federal courts, and advised the Nevada Attorney General and Nevada Governor on matters of statewide importance.\n\nHe also helped handle Nevada's docket in the United States Supreme Court and other appeals courts. He has argued and litigated cases on a variety of issues that include education, public lands, free speech, ERISA, gun background checks, and elections.\n\nHis book, \"The Lives of the Constitution\", became a #1 bestseller on Amazon.com in the three areas: constitutional law, legal history, and legal biography.\n\nTartakovsky is an attorney in the appellate and constitutional practice at the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in San Francisco.\n"}
{"id": "34226826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34226826", "title": "Juan Manuel Ugarte Eléspuru", "text": "Juan Manuel Ugarte Eléspuru\n\nJuan Manuel Ugarte Eléspuru (1911–2004) was a Peruvian painter, writer and historian.\n"}
{"id": "43834672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43834672", "title": "Karo Ghafadaryan", "text": "Karo Ghafadaryan\n\nKaro Ghafadaryan (; April 20, 1907December 21, 1976) was a Soviet Armenian archaeologist, historian, epigraphist, philologist. He was the director of the History Museum of Armenia (1940–1965). \"Under his guidance, the Museum became an advanced research and cultural-educational centre\" in Armenia.\n\nBorn in Akhaltsikhe, he graduated from the Yerevan State University in 1931. Since 1932 he worked at the Institute of Culture History and took part in the excavations of Shengavit, Vagharshapat and other ancient locations. He supervised the excavations of the ruins of the medieval Armenian capital of Dvin for around three decades. Since 1959 until his death he headed the department of medieval archaeology of the Armenian Academy of Sciences.\n"}
{"id": "1120253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120253", "title": "Kennin", "text": "Kennin\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30798432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30798432", "title": "Kuniumi", "text": "Kuniumi\n\nIn Japanese mythology, the is the traditional and legendary history of the emergence of the Japanese archipelago, of islands, as narrated in the Kojiki and Nihon Shoki. According to this legend, after the creation of Heaven and Earth, the gods Izanagi and Izanami were given the task of forming a series of islands that would become what is now Japan. In Japanese mythology these islands make up the known world. The creation of Japan is followed by the creation of the gods (\"kamiumi\")\n\nAfter the formation, the Heaven was above and Earth was still a drifting soft mush. The first five gods named were lone deities without gender and did not procreate. Then came the , consisting of two lone deities followed by five couples. It was the last couple, Izanagi and Izanami that gave earth its solid form and first procreated other gods.\n\nThe elder gods delegated the youngest couple Izanagi and Izanami to carry out their venerable mandate: to reach down from heaven and give solid form to the earth. This they did with the use of a precious stone-covered spear named , given to them by the elders. Standing over the , they churned the chaotic mass with the spear. When drops of salty water fell from the tip, they formed into the first island, Onogoroshima. In forming this island, both gods came down from heaven, and spontaneously built a central support column called the which upheld the \"hall measuring eight fathoms\" that the gods caused to appear afterwards.\n\nThen they initiated conversation inquiring of each other's bodily anatomy, leading to a mutual decision to mate and procreate:\n\nIzanami accepted the offer and Izanagi proposed that both should circle around the column \"Ame-no-mihashira\" in opposite directions, Izanami going right and Izanagi left and on meeting each other would perform sexual intercourse (). However, when they met on the other side of the pillar, Izanami was the first to speak, saying: \"Oh, indeed you are beautiful and kind youth!\", to which Izanagi replied: \"Oh, what a most beautiful and kind youth!\". Izanagi then rebukes Izanami saying: \"It is wrong for the wife to speak first.\".\n\nHowever they mated anyway and later fathered a child Hiruko (lit. \"leech child), who was placed in a reed boat dragged by the current. Afterwards they gave birth to . Neither Hiruko and Awashima were considered legitimate children of Izanagi and Izanami.\n\nIzanagi and Izanami decided to ascend to heaven and consult the primordial gods at Takamagahara about the ill-formed children that resulted from their union. The gods through divination determined that the woman speaking first during the ceremony was the cause. So the couple returned to Onogoroshima island and repeated the ritual encircling column, only making sure the male-god was the first to speak out greeting. When finished they performed the union successfully and lands began to be born.\n\nAccording to the legend, the formation of Japan started with the procreation of eight large islands by Izanagi and Izanami. In order of birth these islands are the following:\n\n\nTraditionally these islands are known as Ōyashima (lit. eight large islands) and as a whole are what is currently known as Japan. In the myth neither Hokkaidō nor the Ryukyu Islands are mentioned as these were not known to the Japanese at the time of compiling the Kojiki.\n\nAdditionally, Izanagi and Izanami then gave birth to six islands:\n\nThe story of this book only differs in that Izanagi and Izanami volunteered to consolidate the Earth. In addition the two deities are described as \"god of yang\" (陽神 \"youshin\", male deity) and \"goddess of yin\" (陰神 \"inshin\", female deity) influenced by the ideas of Yin and yang. The rest of the story is identical, except that the other celestial gods (\"Kotoamatsukami\") do not appear, nor are the last six smaller islands mentioned that were born through Izanagi and Izanami.\n\n"}
{"id": "6611775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6611775", "title": "Kálmán Thaly", "text": "Kálmán Thaly\n\nKálmán Thaly (3 January 1839, Csép – 26 September 1909, Zablát) was a Hungarian poet, historian and politician. His most important works are his Kuruc poetry, the most famous literary forgery in the history of Hungarian literature.\n\nThaly started out as a poet. His poem collections, which appeared between 1857 and 1861, are tinged with a nationalistic fervor. They include \"Do not hurt the Hungarians\" (1857), \"Zengo Park\" (1859), \"Carpathian Horn\" (1860), \"Szekely Horn\" (1861), and \"Dawn of Freedom\" (1861). Later Thaly was increasingly attracted to history.\n\nBesides being a poet, Thaly was also a parliamentarian. He was also a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. He held an influential place in the country's military affairs. He was instrumental in the founding of the Historical Society, and edited its journal.\n\nThaly was highly patriotic. As a Hungarian national, he supported Francis II Rákóczi. In 1873, Thaly started a movement to exhume the grave of Rákóczi, and bring home his remains. Thaly dream was realized only in October 1906, when the remains of his hero were brought home to Hungary.\n\nThaly's intense patriotism came through in his books. He wrote five books during his life, all of which bear an unmistakable mark of nationalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "34136488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34136488", "title": "Lance E. Davis", "text": "Lance E. Davis\n\nLance Edwin Davis (November 3, 1928 – January 20, 2014) was the Mary Stillman Harkness Professor of Social Science at the California Institute of Technology. He researched the economic history of financial markets and institutional and technological change. His work has been recognised by The Cliometric Society via their awarding him a \"Clio Can\" in recognition his \"of exceptional support of cliometrics\".\n\nDavis was also a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. He earned a PhD from Johns Hopkins University in 1956 with thesis titled \"United States Financial Intermediaries in the Early 19th Century: Four Case Studies\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48642349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48642349", "title": "List of thwarted Islamist terrorist attacks", "text": "List of thwarted Islamist terrorist attacks\n\nThis list is subject to the policy and the reliable sources guideline. Please familiarize yourself with both before editing this list. In addition, note that a reliable source that states the attack plot was in progress with intent to commit violence and was Islamist in nature must be provided for any new entry. Unreferenced list items may be removed at any time.\n\nJihad terror attacks by Islamist extremists to further a perceived Islamic religious or political cause have occurred globally. Other plots have been successfully stopped by police. The attackers have used such tactics as arson, vehicle rampage attacks, bomb threats, suicide attacks, bombings, spree shooting, stabbings, hijackings, kidnappings and beheadings. The following is a list of thwarted Islamist terrorist attacks that have received significant press coverage since 1993. See the companion article List of Islamist terrorist attacks for major incidents that did result in violence.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26016150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26016150", "title": "List of towns of the former Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria", "text": "List of towns of the former Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria\n\nThis is a list of major cities and towns which belonged to the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria from the Congress of Vienna in 1815 until the dissolution of Austria-Hungary in 1918. Between those dates, the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria consisted mostly of the territories gained by the Habsburg Empire in the First Partition of Poland in 1772. \n\nToday, the territory of Galicia is split between Poland in the west and Ukraine in the east. At the turn of the Twentieth Century, Poles constituted 78.7% of the whole population of Western Galicia, Ukrainians 13.2%, Jews 7.6%, Germans 0.3%, and others 0.2%. Respective data for Eastern Galicia show the following number: Ukrainians 64.5%, Poles 21.0%, Jews 13.7%, Germans 0.3%, and others 0.5%. Before World War II, many Galician towns, even in the predominantly ethnic Ukrainian east, had substantial Polish, Jewish and German populations.\n"}
{"id": "38358102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38358102", "title": "Madhu Khanna", "text": "Madhu Khanna\n\nMadhu Khanna is an Indian people historian of religion and noted Tantric scholar based in Delhi. At present, she is Distinguished Fellow (2013–2014) in Asian and Comparative Studies at the California Institute of Integral Studies, San Francisco. Until recently, she was Director for the Centre for the Study of Comparative Religion and Civilizations, Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. She is at present Visiting Professor of Indic Religion at the same Centre, where she teaches interdisciplinary courses in Hindu Studies. She has several books and exhibition catalogues to her credit and has contributed to three national projects, as well as several research projects for the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA).\n\nShe obtained her PhD in Indology/Religious Studies from the Faculty of Oriental Studies, University of Oxford, in 1986. Her PhD thesis was on \"The Concept and Liturgy of the Sricakra based on Sivananda's Trilogy\", under the supervision of Professor Alexis Sanderson, Ethics and Religion, All Souls College, University of Oxford. Her subject was Esoteric Hinduism, with special reference to Hindu Tantra and Goddess Traditions. Her research has shown that the origins of Sri Vidya as a central doctrine of Shaktism were in Kashmir. \n\nShe has been Associate Professor (Religious/Indic studies) at the IGNCA, where she researched and organized all major, inter-disciplinary research projects and exhibitions, including \"Prakriti: Man in Harmony with the Elements\", a cross-cultural, inter-disciplinary project; \"Rta: Cosmic Order & Chaos\", a cross-cultural seminar which explored the multi-faceted concept of Rta, Cosmic Order, traceable to the Vedas which pervades all aspects of life, the natural order, the human world, the social and the moral worlds, as well as the arts; and \"Rupa-Pratirupa: Man, Mind & Mask\", to name a few.\nShe spearheaded \"Narivada: Gender, Culture & Civilization Network\" of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), Delhi. Narivada is a pioneer project that revisions and contextualizes women's cultural resources and knowledge systems in South Asia as an integral element in Gender Studies.\n\nShe has also been involved with three research-based, multi-media-exhibition projects of national interest in collaboration with the Sacred World Foundation, New Delhi: \"Planet Health: Green Consciousness in Ayurveda and Yoga, A Multimedia Exhibit\" (2010), her most recent project, was commissioned by Ayush, Ministry of Health. As Honorary Director for Content Research, Documentation and Production, she produced 150 documentary videos on Indian health heritage, namely Ayurveda and yoga. The project involved interviews with scholars, masters of yoga and experts in Ayurveda. \"Eternal Gandhi Multimedia Museum Exhibit\" (2002), where she produced 200 documentary videos on the life and philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi. The videos are exhibited in 51 interactive installations permanently housed in the memorial Gandhi Smriti, Birla House, New Delhi, where the Mahatma was assassinated. The Mahavira Mahatma Award was conferred upon Madhu Khanna by the Times Foundation, New Delhi, in 2005 for her work on this project. \"The Crossing Project: Living, Dying and Transformation in Benaras\" (2002) was sponsored by Xerox PARC, Palo Alto Research Center, the world's leading provider of personal computing and innovative research in digital document solutions. She was conferred the Excellence in Research certificate by Xerox PARC for this project. \"The Crossing Project\" won the following awards: Winner Prix Arts Electronica, Linz, Austria, 2002; Winner \"ID Magazine\" Gold Prize, Interactive Review, New York, 2002; Jury's Recommendation, CG Arts Festival, Japan, 2002. She is the President and Founding Member of the Tantra Foundation in New Delhi (www.tantrafoundation.org). She recently initiated an ecological project, \"Shri Kun – A Rural Centre for Eco Heritage\" in Bamunara village, Burdwan, West Bengal, to create a herbarium of traditional plants based on ancient Hindu scriptures to promote programmes for ecological sustainability.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4496418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4496418", "title": "Manuel da Costa (bibliographer)", "text": "Manuel da Costa (bibliographer)\n\nManuel da Costa (1541 – 25 February 1604) was a Portuguese Jesuit and bibliographer from Lisbon. After teaching humanities and theology at several schools, like Coimbra where most of the Jesuit letters were available in uncensored form, he was chosen rector of Braga, then missionary to the Azores; he was distinguished by his zeal. He wrote \"A História das Missões dos Jesuítas no Oriente, Até ao Ano de 1568\" (History of the Jesuit Missionaries to the East, until 1568). The manuscript was sent to Rome, translated into Latin, and was then given to the young novice Giovanni Pietro Maffei (1533-1603) to prepare it for publication. Maffei added a considerable amount of text to Acosta's work, entitled De Japonicis rebus epistolarum. This part contains abridged Latin translations of letters sent from the Jesuits working in Japan until the year 1564. In his introduction Maffei congratulates Da Costa on his effort in summarizing the contents of the letters together in a short commentary. The P. de Lequerica translated the same work into Spanish.\n\n"}
{"id": "20486012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20486012", "title": "Maritime Security Patrol Area", "text": "Maritime Security Patrol Area\n\nThe Maritime Security Patrol Area (MSPA) is a specified patrol zone in the Gulf of Aden and Guardafui Channel. Its borders are unmarked, but are a narrow, rectangular corridor between Somalia and Yemen, within the northern sector of the gulf. The MSPA was established 22 August 2008 by the Combined Task Force 150, (CTF-150) a multinational, coalition naval task force in order to deter de-stabilizing activities, including piracy within this maritime geographical area. The establishment of the MSPA was directed by the Commander, United States Naval Central Command.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20184044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20184044", "title": "Mark D. Naison", "text": "Mark D. Naison\n\nMark Naison (born 1946) is a professor of history at Fordham University, the Jesuit University of New York.\n\nNaison, a former political activist, was a member of Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) in the 1960s. He is a graduate of Columbia University and holds a Ph.D. in American history.\n\nMark D. Naison was born in 1946 in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, New York. As the only child of Jewish intellectuals (both schoolteachers), Mark D. Naison had an easy childhood. Although he was happy as a child, Naison felt ostracized from his peers because his parents put such an importance on intelligence. Naison rebelled and turned to sports as an outlet and to help him fit in better with the neighbor kids.\n\nNaison entered Columbia University in the fall of 1962. By the end of his freshman year, he began to feel like he had to oppose racial segregation more actively. By the fall of 1963, he joined the Columbia chapter of CORE. CORE (Congress of Racial Equality) was a civil rights organization that was pivotal in the United States, particularly in the 1950s and 1960s. CORE was started in 1942 and was open to \"anyone who believes that 'all people are created equal' and is willing to work towards the ultimate goal of true equality throughout the world.\" CORE quickly became one of the university's biggest political-action groups. He signed up to tutor and help organize tenants in East Harlem. He earned his BA in American History at Columbia in 1966. and his MA in American History in 1967. Naison went on to earn his Ph.D. in American History in January 1976.\n\nBy 1967, Naison was participating in anti-war activities sponsored by SDS (Students for a Democratic Society). Although Naison was against the Vietnam War, he had objections to SDS's political style. He felt that they were too wrapped up in Marxist thinking and not concerned enough with the human aspect of the war. In the spring of 1967, SDS held a demonstration against the Reserve Officers Training Corps, or ROTC, on the Columbia campus. Naison participated in the demonstration, but to distinguish himself from SDS members, he wore his athletic jacket and carried a sign saying \"jocks for peace\". In February 1968 Naison was arrested for civil disobedience at a protest on the Columbia campus at the proposed Harlem site for the new gym. In April of that same year Naison's father and Martin Luther King died within two weeks of each other. Both of these deaths had profound impacts on Naison. At this point in his life he decided that he needed to be more involved in radical politics. Two weeks after King's death there was another protest against the gym and again Naison participated. This time it was organized by the Columbia chapter of SDS and SAS (Student African-American Society). Mark Rudd, SDS's leader, urged the group (of almost 500) to seize buildings to make sure their voices were heard. They soon overtook Hamilton Hall, giving them leverage that no other demonstration had ever held. During the building occupation, Naison spoke briefly about the historical context of the march. During his speech he said that \"the forces opposing university expansion have the upper hand. Let's not leave this building until we get some serious concessions.\" During the protest, Naison realized that while he did not necessarily agree with SDS's contempt for white protesters, he also felt that their tactics in the gym protest were far more effective, a realization that led him to join SDS after the strike. After he joined, Naison was asked by Rudd to use his knowledge of African-American and labor movement history to argue that the nationalist impulse was a progressive force in African-American life in SDS's leadership's fight against the Progressive Labor Movement. The PLM (generally referred to as PL) included members of SDS who were arguing that black nationalism was reactionary and that no revolution could be built with separate black and white wings. By that fall, Naison had taken on an even greater role in SDS, both in the regional offices and nationally. He participated in many protests and attended the SDS national convention in Chicago in 1969.\n\nWhen the group calling itself Weatherman was instituted at the SDS national convention in Chicago, Naison was there. Naison even joined another member of the group to sign a lease on a house in South Brooklyn. Naison participated in discussions for the Days of Rage to be held in Chicago in the fall of 1969. On a Saturday in October 1969 all that changed. Naison was in a park with a group of friends, and while there they met a group of teenagers. They started talking and soon learned that a café across the way would not serve them because they looked like hippies. Furious, Naison and the others marched into the café and demanded that they be served. The police were called and a fight ensued resulting in eleven arrests. After a couple of days in jail, Naison was released on bail (by his comrades) with the assumption that he would contact a gym teacher at a local school to get the word out about the Days of Rage. Naison did not want to put his life on the line and be back in jail within the week. After tangling with members of the Weatherman, Naison ceased associating with the group.\n\nNaison was briefly investigated by the FBI. According to his memoir, the FBI bugged his house electronically and tried to question his neighbors, who, however, refused to say anything about him. After three days, the FBI was satisfied that he was no longer in the Weatherman and they left him alone. Naison lost one of his dearest friends, Ted Gold, during the accidental explosion of a Greenwich Village townhouse by an amateur SDS bomb-making group. Kathy Boudin, in the house at the time, had been one of his favorite contacts in the New York Collective, and she survived the blast. In his grief over the loss of Gold, Naison wrote a poem, published in \"Radical America\", as a tribute to his fallen friend.\n<poem>\n\"I remember Ted Gold best...\n\"He is dead...\nOf a bomb meant for better targets...\" </poem>\n\nAsked about his arrest during the Columbia incident, Naison replied, \"Getting arrested to protest Columbia's attempt to build a gym in a Harlem Park was something I was proud of at the time—and am still proud of now.\" Naison claims that his only regret in life has been not leaving Weatherman when they started talking about getting rid of monogamy.\n\nNaison has been on the faculty of Fordham University in New York City since 1970, where he is Professor of African American Studies and History, Director of the Bronx African American History Project, and has served as Director of Urban Studies. His most popular course at Fordham, \"From Rock & Roll to Hip Hop: Urban Youth Cultures in Post War America\", was the subject of an interview with him on National Public Radio.\n\nHe has written over a hundred articles and published three books on urban history, African-American History, and the history of sports. Naison has also appeared on \"The O'Reilly Factor\", \"Chappelle's Show\", and The Discovery Channel's \"Greatest American Competition\". He has also been an outspoken critic of Teach for America.\n\nNaison is co-founder of the Badass Teachers Association, a group dedicated to fighting the Common Core Curriculum and corporate influences on American education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32811765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32811765", "title": "Nils Kristian Heyerdahl", "text": "Nils Kristian Heyerdahl\n\nNils Kristian Heyerdahl (born 11 April 1941) is a Norwegian historian of ideas, theatre director and non-fiction writer. He was theatre director of Radioteatret in the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation from 1991 to 2011, and is President of the Norwegian Academy from 2011.\n"}
{"id": "274659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274659", "title": "Numa Denis Fustel de Coulanges", "text": "Numa Denis Fustel de Coulanges\n\nNuma Denis Fustel de Coulanges (; 18 March 1830 – 12 September 1889) was a French historian. Joseph McCarthy argues that his first great book, \"The Ancient City\" (1864) was based on his in-depth knowledge of the primary Greek and Latin texts. The book argued that:\n\nBorn in Paris, of Breton descent, after studying at the École Normale Supérieure he was sent to the French School at Athens in 1853, he directed some excavations in Chios, and wrote an historical account of the island.\n\nAfter his return he filled various educational offices, and took his doctorate with two theses, \"Quid Vestae cultus in institutis veterum privatis publicisque valuerit\" and \"Polybe, ou la Grèce conquise par les Romains\" (1858). In these works his distinctive qualities were already revealed. His minute knowledge of the language of the Greek and Roman institutions, coupled with his low estimate of the conclusions of contemporary scholars, led him to go directly to the original texts, which he read without political or religious bias. When, however, he had succeeded in extracting from the sources a general idea that seemed to him clear and simple, he attached himself to it as if to the truth itself.\n\nFrom 1860 to 1870 he was professor of history at the faculty of letters at Strasbourg, where he had a brilliant career as a teacher, but never yielded to the influence exercised by the German universities in the field of classical and Germanic antiquities.\n\nIt was at Strasbourg that he published his remarkable volume \"La Cité antique\" (1864), in which he showed forcibly the part played by religion in the political and social evolution of Greece and Rome. The book was so consistent throughout, so full of ingenious ideas, and written in so striking a style, that it ranks as one of the masterpieces of the French language in the 19th century. By this literary merit Fustel set little store, but he clung tenaciously to his theories. When he revised the book in 1875, his modifications were very slight, and it is conceivable that, had he recast it, as he often expressed the desire to do in the last years of his life, he would not have abandoned any part of his fundamental thesis.\n\nFustel de Coulanges was appointed to a lectureship at the École Normale Supérieure in February 1870, to a professorship at the Paris faculty of letters in 1875, and to the chair of medieval history created for him at the Sorbonne in 1878, he applied himself to the study of the political institutions of ancient France. The invasion of France by the German armies during the Franco-Prussian War attracted his attention to the Germanic invasions under the Roman Empire. Pursuing the theory of JB Dubos, but also transforming it, he maintained that those invasions were not marked by the violent and destructive character usually attributed to them; that the penetration of the German barbarians into Gaul was a slow process; that the Germans submitted to the imperial administration; that the political institutions of the Merovingians had their origins in the Roman laws at least as much as, if not more than, in German usages; and, consequently, that there was no conquest of Gaul by the Germans.\n\nThis thesis he sustained in his \"Histoire des institutions politiques de l'ancienne France\", the first volume of which appeared in 1874. It was the author's original intention to complete this work in four volumes, but as the first volume was keenly attacked in Germany as well as in France, Fustel was forced in self-defence to recast the book entirely. He re-examined all the texts and wrote a number of dissertations, which were dominated by his general idea and characterized by a total disregard for the results of such historical disciplines as diplomatic. From this crucible issued an entirely new work, less well arranged than the original, but rich in facts and critical comments. The first volume was expanded into three volumes, \"La Gaule romaine\" (1891), \"L'Invasion germanique et la fin de l'empire\" (1891) and \"La Monarchie franque\" (1888), followed by three other volumes, \"L'Alleu et le domaine rural pendant l'époque mérovingienne\" (1889), \"Les Origines du système féodal: le bénéfice et le patronat ...\" (1890) and \"Les Transformations de la royauté pendant l'époque carolingienne\" (1892).\n\nThus, in six volumes, he had carried the work no farther than the Carolingian period. The dissertations not embodied in his work were collected by himself and (after his death) by his pupil, Camille Jullian, and published as volumes of miscellanies: \"Recherches sur quelques problèmes d'Histoire\" (1885), dealing with the Roman colonate, the land system in Normandy; the Germanic mark, and the judiciary organization in the kingdom of the Franks; \"Nouvelles recherches sur quelques problèmes d'histoire\" (1891); and \"Questions historiques\" (1893), which contains his paper on Chios and his thesis on Polybius.\n\nHis life was devoted almost entirely to his teaching and his books. In 1875, he was elected member of the Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques, and in 1880 reluctantly accepted the post of director of the École Normale. Without intervening personally in French politics, he took a keen interest in the questions of administration and social reorganization arising from the fall of the imperialist régime and the disasters of the war.\n\nHe wished the institutions of the present to approximate more closely to those of the past, and devised for the new French constitution a body of reforms which reflected the opinions he had formed upon the democracy at Rome and in ancient France. But these were dreams which did not hold him long, and he would have been scandalized had he known that his name was subsequently used as the emblem of a political and religious party. He died at Massy (then called Seine-et-Oise) in 1889.\n\nThroughout his historical career — at the École Normale and the Sorbonne and in his lectures delivered to the empress Eugénie — his sole aim was to ascertain the truth, and in the defence of truth his polemics against what he imagined to be the blindness and insincerity of his critics sometimes assumed a character of harshness and injustice. But, in France at least, these critics were the first to render justice to his learning, his talents and his disinterestedness.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8868782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8868782", "title": "Operation Cyclone", "text": "Operation Cyclone\n\nOperation Cyclone was the code name for the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) program to arm and finance the \"mujahideen\", in Afghanistan from 1979 to 1989, prior to and during the military intervention by the USSR in support of its client, the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. The program leaned heavily towards supporting militant Islamic groups that were favored by the regime of Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq in neighboring Pakistan, rather than other, less ideological Afghan resistance groups that had also been fighting the Marxist-oriented Democratic Republic of Afghanistan regime since before the Soviet intervention. Operation Cyclone was one of the longest and most expensive covert CIA operations ever undertaken; funding began with just over $500,000 in 1979, was increased dramatically to $20–$30 million per year in 1980 and rose to $630 million per year in 1987. Funding continued after 1989 as the mujahideen battled the forces of Mohammad Najibullah's PDPA during the civil war in Afghanistan (1989–1992).\n\nCommunists under the leadership of Nur Muhammad Taraki seized power in Afghanistan on April 27, 1978. The new regime—which was divided between Taraki's extremist Khalq faction and the more moderate Parcham—signed a treaty of friendship with the Soviet Union in December of that year. Taraki's efforts to improve secular education and redistribute land were accompanied by mass executions (including of many conservative religious leaders) and political oppression unprecedented in Afghan history, igniting a revolt by mujahideen rebels. Following a general uprising in April 1979, Taraki was deposed by Khalq rival Hafizullah Amin in September. Amin was considered a \"brutal psychopath\" by foreign observers; the Soviets were particularly alarmed by the brutality of the late Khalq regime, and suspected Amin of being an agent of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), although that was not the case. By December, Amin's government had lost control of much of the country, prompting the Soviet Union to invade Afghanistan, execute Amin, and install Parcham leader Babrak Karmal as president.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, Pakistani intelligence officials began privately lobbying the U.S. and its allies to send material assistance to the Islamist insurgents. Pakistani President Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq's ties with the U.S. had been strained during Jimmy Carter's presidency due to Pakistan's nuclear program and the execution of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in April 1979, but Carter told National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski and Secretary of State Cyrus Vance as early as January 1979 that it was vital to \"repair our relationships with Pakistan\" in light of the unrest in Iran. According to former CIA official Robert Gates, \"the Carter administration turned to CIA ... to counter Soviet and Cuban aggression in the Third World, particularly beginning in mid-1979.\" In March 1979, \"CIA sent several covert action options relating to Afghanistan to the SCC <nowiki>[</nowiki>Special Coordination Committee<nowiki>]</nowiki>\" of the United States National Security Council. At a March 30 meeting, U.S. Department of Defense representative Walter B. Slocombe \"asked if there was value in keeping the Afghan insurgency going, 'sucking the Soviets into a Vietnamese quagmire?'\" When asked to clarify this remark, Slocombe explained: \"Well, the whole idea was that if the Soviets decided to strike at this tar baby [Afghanistan] we had every interest in making sure that they got stuck.\" Yet an April 5 memo from National Intelligence Officer Arnold Horelick warned: \"Covert action would raise the costs to the Soviets and inflame Moslem opinion against them in many countries. The risk was that a substantial U.S. covert aid program could raise the stakes and induce the Soviets to intervene more directly and vigorously than otherwise intended.\" In May 1979, U.S. officials secretly began meeting with rebel leaders through Pakistani government contacts. A former Pakistani military official claimed that he personally introduced a CIA official to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar that month (Freedom of Information Act requests for records describing these meetings have been denied). Additional meetings were held on April 6 and July 3, and on the same day as the second meeting, Carter signed a \"presidential 'finding'\" that \"authorized the CIA to spend just over $500,000\" on non-lethal aid to the mujahideen, which \"seemed at the time a small beginning.\"\n\nBrzezinski later claimed that \"We didn't push the Russians to intervene, but we knowingly increased the probability that they would.\" According to Brzezinski, he became convinced by mid-1979 that the Soviets were going to invade Afghanistan regardless of U.S. policy due to the Carter administration's failure to respond aggressively to Soviet activity in Africa, but—despite the risk of unintended consequences—support for the mujahideen could be an effective way to prevent Soviet aggression beyond Afghanistan (particularly in Brzezinski's native Poland). The full significance of the U.S. sending aid to the mujahideen prior to the invasion is debated among scholars. Some assert that it directly, and even deliberately, provoked the Soviets to send in troops. Bruce Riedel, however, believes that the U.S. aid was intended primarily to improve U.S. relations with Pakistan, while Steve Coll asserts: \"Contemporary memos—particularly those written in the first days after the Soviet invasion—make clear that while Brzezinski was determined to confront the Soviets in Afghanistan through covert action, he was also very worried the Soviets would prevail. ... Given this evidence and the enormous political and security costs that the invasion imposed on the Carter administration, any claim that Brzezinski lured the Soviets into Afghanistan warrants deep skepticism.\" Carter himself has stated that encouraging a Soviet invasion was \"not my intention.\" Gates recounted: \"No one in the Carter Administration wanted the Soviets to invade Afghanistan and no one, as I can recall at least, ever advocated attempting to induce them to invade ... Only after the Soviet invasion did some advocate making the Soviets 'bleed' in their own Vietnam.\"\n\nCarter expressed surprise at the invasion. According to Riedel, the consensus of the U.S. intelligence community during 1978 and 1979—reiterated as late as September 29, 1979—was that \"Moscow would not intervene in force even if it appeared likely that the Khalq government was about to collapse.\" Indeed, Carter's diary entries from November 1979 until the Soviet invasion in late December contain only two short references to Afghanistan, and are instead preoccupied with the ongoing hostage crisis in Iran. In the West, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was considered a threat to global security and the oil supplies of the Persian Gulf. Moreover, the failure to accurately predict Soviet intentions caused American officials to reappraise the Soviet threat to both Iran and Pakistan, although it is now known that those fears were overblown. For example, U.S. intelligence closely followed Soviet exercises for an invasion of Iran throughout 1980, while an earlier warning from Brzezinski that \"if the Soviets came to dominate Afghanistan, they could promote a separate Baluchistan ... [thus] dismembering Pakistan and Iran\" took on new urgency.\n\nIn the aftermath of the invasion, Carter was determined to respond vigorously. In a televised speech, he announced sanctions on the Soviet Union, promised renewed aid to Pakistan, and committed the U.S. to the Persian Gulf's defense. Carter also called for a boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, which raised a bitter controversy. British prime minister Margaret Thatcher enthusiastically backed Carter's tough stance, although British intelligence believed \"the CIA was being too alarmist about the Soviet threat to Pakistan.\" The thrust of U.S. policy for the duration of the war was determined by Carter in early 1980: Carter initiated a program to arm the mujahideen through Pakistan's ISI and secured a pledge from Saudi Arabia to match U.S. funding for this purpose. U.S. support for the mujahideen accelerated under Carter's successor, Ronald Reagan, at a final cost to U.S. taxpayers of some $3 billion. The Soviets were unable to quell the insurgency and withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989, precipitating the dissolution of the Soviet Union itself. However, the decision to route U.S. aid through Pakistan led to massive fraud, as weapons sent to Karachi were frequently sold on the local market rather than delivered to the Afghan rebels; Karachi soon \"became one of the most violent cities in the world.\" Pakistan also controlled which rebels received assistance: Of the seven mujahideen groups supported by Zia's government, four espoused Islamic fundamentalist beliefs—and these fundamentalists received most of the funding. Despite this, Carter has expressed no regrets over his decision to support what he still considers the \"freedom fighters\" in Afghanistan.\n\nAlthough Gates described Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) Stansfield Turner and the CIA's Directorate of Operations (DO) as contemplating \"several enhancement options\"—up to and including the direct provision of arms from the U.S. to the mujahideen through the ISI—as early as late August 1979, and an unnamed Brzezinski aide acknowledged in conversation with Selig S. Harrison that the U.S.'s nominally \"non-lethal\" assistance to the mujahideen included facilitating arms shipments by third-parties, Coll, Harrison, Riedel, and the head of the DO's Near East–South Asia Division at the time—Charles Cogan—all state that no U.S.-supplied arms intended for the mujahideen reached Pakistan until January 1980, after Carter amended his presidential finding to include lethal provisions in late December 1979.\n\nPresident Reagan greatly expanded the program as part of the Reagan Doctrine of aiding anti-Soviet resistance movements abroad. To execute this policy, Reagan deployed CIA Special Activities Division paramilitary officers to equip the Mujihadeen forces against the Soviet Army. Although the CIA and Texas Congressman Charlie Wilson have received the most attention for their roles, the key architect of the strategy was Michael G. Vickers, a young CIA paramilitary officer working for Gust Avrakotos, the CIA's regional head who had a close relationship with Wilson. Vicker's strategy was to use a broad mix of weapons, tactics, logistics, along with training programs, to enhance the rebels' ability to fight a guerilla war against the Soviets. Reagan's program assisted in ending the Soviet's occupation in Afghanistan. A Pentagon senior official, Michael Pillsbury, successfully advocated providing Stinger missiles to the Afghan resistance, according to recent books and academic articles.\n\nThe program relied heavily on the Pakistani President Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, who had a close relationship with Wilson. His Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) was an intermediary for funds distribution, passing of weapons, military training and financial support to Afghan resistance groups. Along with funding from similar programs from Britain's MI6 and SAS, Saudi Arabia, and the People's Republic of China, the ISI armed and trained over 100,000 insurgents between 1978 and 1992 . They encouraged the volunteers from the Arab states to join the Afghan resistance in its struggle against the Soviet troops based in Afghanistan.\nAll support to the Sunni Mujahideen was funneled through the government of Pakistan, given that the Shiite Mujahideen had close ties to Iran at the time. Given American-Iranian tensions during the period, the US government aided solely the Sunni Mujahideen in Afghanistan.\n\nReports show civilian personnel from the U.S. Department of State and the CIA frequently visited the Afghanistan-Pakistan border area during this time, and the US contributed generously to aiding Afghan refugees. CIA director William Casey secretly visited Pakistan numerous times to meet with the ISI officers managing the mujahideen, and personally observed the guerrilla's training on at least one occasion. Coll reports that\n\nCasey startled his Pakistani hosts by proposing that they take the Afghan war into enemy territory -- into the Soviet Union itself. Casey wanted to ship subversive propaganda through Afghanistan to the Soviet Union's predominantly Muslim southern republics. The Pakistanis agreed, and the CIA soon supplied thousands of Korans, as well as books on Soviet atrocities in Uzbekistan and tracts on historical heroes of Uzbek nationalism, according to Pakistani and Western officials.\n\nOther direct points of contact between the US government and mujahideen include the CIA flying Hekmatyar to the United States, where he was hosted by State Department official Zalmay Khalizad. Hekmatyar was invited to meet with President Reagan but refused, and was replaced at the White House's October 1985 conference with mujahideen by Younis Khalis, who publicly invited Reagan to convert to Islam. CIA agent Howard Hart developed a personal relationship with Abdul Haq which led to the Afghan meeting both Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. Assistant Secretary of Defense Richard Armitage regularly met with mujahideen, particularly Burhanuddin Rabbani. CIA agents are also known to have given direct cash payments to Jalaluddin Haqqani.\n\nThe U.S.-built Stinger antiaircraft missile, supplied to the mujahideen in very large numbers beginning in 1986, struck a decisive blow to the Soviet war effort as it allowed the lightly armed Afghans to effectively defend against Soviet helicopter landings in strategic areas. The Stingers were so renowned and deadly that, in the 1990s, the U.S. conducted a \"buy-back\" program to keep unused missiles from falling into the hands of anti-American terrorists. This program may have been covertly renewed following the U.S. intervention in Afghanistan in late 2001, out of fear that remaining Stingers could be used against U.S. forces in the country.\n\nOn 20 July 1987, the withdrawal of Soviet troops from the country was announced pursuant to the negotiations that led to the Geneva Accords of 1988, with the last Soviets leaving on 15 February 1989. Soviet forces suffered over 14,000 killed and missing, and over 50,000 wounded.\n\nThe U.S. offered two packages of economic assistance and military sales to support Pakistan's role in the war against the Soviet troops in Afghanistan. The first six-year assistance package (1981–87) amounted to US$3.2 billion, equally divided between economic assistance and military sales. The U.S. also sold 40 F-16 aircraft to Pakistan during 1983–87 at a cost of $1.2 billion outside the assistance package. The second six-year assistance package (1987–93) amounted to $4.2 billion. Out of this, $2.28 billion were allocated for economic assistance in the form of grants or loan that carried the interest rate of 2–3 per cent. The rest of the allocation ($1.74 billion) was in the form of credit for military purchases. More than $20 billion in U.S. funds were funneled into the country to train and arm the Afghan resistance groups.\n\nThe program funding was increased yearly due to lobbying by prominent U.S. politicians and government officials, such as Charles Wilson, Gordon Humphrey, Fred Ikle, and William Casey. Under the Reagan administration, U.S. support for the Afghan mujahideen evolved into a centerpiece of U.S. foreign policy, called the Reagan Doctrine, in which the U.S. provided military and other support to anti-communist resistance movements in Afghanistan, Angola, and Nicaragua.\n\nThe mujahideen benefited from expanded foreign military support from the United States, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and other Muslim nations. Saudi Arabia in particular agreed to match dollar for dollar the money the CIA was sending to the Mujahideen. When Saudi payments were late, Wilson and Avrakotos would fly to Saudi Arabia to persuade the monarchy to fulfill its commitments.\n\nLevels of support to the various Afghan factions varied. The ISI tended to favor vigorous Islamists like Hekmatyar's Hezb-i-Islami and Haqqani. Some Americans agreed. However others favored the relative moderates like Ahmed Shah Massoud. These included two Heritage Foundation foreign policy analysts, Michael Johns and James A. Phillips, both of whom championed Massoud as the Afghan resistance leader most worthy of US support under the Reagan Doctrine.\n\nThe U.S. shifted its interest from Afghanistan after the withdrawal of Soviet troops. American funding of Hekmatyar and his Hezb-i-Islami party was cut off immediately. The U.S. also reduced its assistance for Afghan refugees in Pakistan.\n\nIn October 1990, U.S. President George H. W. Bush refused to certify that Pakistan did not possess a nuclear explosive device, triggering the imposition of sanctions against Pakistan under the Pressler Amendment (1985) in the Foreign Assistance Act. This disrupted the second assistance package offered in 1987 and discontinued economic assistance and military sales to Pakistan with the exception of the economic assistance already on its way to Pakistan. Military sales and training programs were abandoned as well and some of the Pakistani military officers under training in the U.S. were asked to return home.\n\nAs late as 1991 Charlie Wilson persuaded the House Intelligence Committee to give the Mujahideen $200 million for fiscal year 1992. With the matching funds from Saudi Arabia, this amounted to a contribution of $400 million for that year. Afghan tribes were also delivered weapons which the US captured from Iraq in the Gulf War.\n\nThe U.S. government has been criticized for allowing Pakistan to channel a disproportionate amount of its funding to the controversial Hekmatyar, who Pakistani officials believed was \"their man\". Hekmatyar has been criticized for killing other \"mujahideen\" and attacking civilian populations, including shelling Kabul with American-supplied weapons, causing 2,000 casualties. Hekmatyar was said to be friendly with Osama bin Laden, founder of al-Qaeda, who was running an operation for assisting \"Afghan Arab\" volunteers fighting in Afghanistan, called Maktab al-Khadamat. Alarmed by his behavior, Pakistan leader General Zia warned Hekmatyar, \"It was Pakistan that made him an Afghan leader and it is Pakistan who can equally destroy him if he continues to misbehave.\"\n\nThe CIA and State Department have been criticized for their direct relationship with Hekmatyar, beyond ISI contact, in spite of his being one of the leading heroin smugglers in the region.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Pakistani prime minister Benazir Bhutto, concerned about the growing strength of the Islamist movement, told President George H. W. Bush, \"You are creating a Frankenstein.\"\n\nSome have alleged that bin Laden and al Qaeda were beneficiaries of CIA assistance. This is challenged by experts such as Coll—who notes that declassified CIA records and interviews with CIA officers do not support such claims—and Peter Bergen, who argues: \"The theory that bin Laden was created by the CIA is invariably advanced as an axiom with no supporting evidence.\" Bergen insists that U.S. funding went to the \"Afghan\" mujahideen, not the Arab volunteers who arrived to assist them.\n\nHowever Sir Martin Ewans noted that the Afghan Arabs \"benefited indirectly from the CIA's funding, through the ISI and resistance organizations,\" and that \"it has been reckoned that as many as 35,000 'Arab-Afghans' may have received military training in Pakistan at an estimated cost of $800 million in the years up to and including 1988.\" Some of the CIA's greatest Afghan beneficiaries were Arabist commanders such as Haqqani and Hekmatyar who were key allies of bin Laden over many years. Haqqani—one of bin Laden's closest associates in the 1980s—received direct cash payments from CIA agents, without the mediation of the ISI. This independent source of funding gave Haqqani disproportionate influence over the mujahideen. Haqqani and his network played an important role in the formation and growth of al Qaeda, with Jalalhuddin Haqqani allowing bin Laden to train mujahideen volunteers in Haqqani territory and build extensive infrastructure there.\n\n"}
{"id": "12797709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12797709", "title": "Origin myth", "text": "Origin myth\n\nAn origin myth is a myth that purports to describe the origin of some feature of the natural or social world. One type of origin myth is the cosmogonic myth, which describes the creation of the world. However, many cultures have stories set after the cosmogonic myth, which describe the origin of natural phenomena and human institutions within a preexisting universe.\n\nIn Western classical scholarship, the terms etiological myth and aition (from the Ancient Greek αἴτιον, \"cause\") are sometimes used for a myth that explains an origin, particularly how an object or custom came into existence.\n\nEvery origin myth is a tale of creation: origin myths describe how some new reality came into existence. In many cases, origin myths also justify the established order by explaining that it was established by sacred forces (see section on \"Social function\" below). The distinction between cosmogonic myths and origin myths is not clear-cut. A myth about the origin of some part of the world necessarily presupposes the existence of the world—which, for many cultures, presupposes a cosmogonic myth. In this sense, one can think of origin myths as building upon and extending their cultures' cosmogonic myths. In fact, in traditional cultures, the recitation of an origin myth is often prefaced with the recitation of the cosmogonic myth.\n\nIn some academic circles, the term \"myth\" properly refers only to origin and cosmogonic myths. For example, many folklorists reserve the label \"myth\" for stories about creation. Traditional stories that do not focus on origins fall into the categories of \"legend\" and \"folk tale\", which folklorists distinguish from myth.\n\nAccording to historian Mircea Eliade, for many traditional cultures, nearly every sacred story qualifies as an origin myth. Traditional humans tend to model their behavior after sacred events, seeing their life as an \"eternal return\" to the mythical age. Because of this conception, nearly every sacred story describes events that established a new paradigm for human behavior, and thus nearly every sacred story is a story about a creation.\n\nAn origin myth often functions to justify the current state of affairs. In traditional cultures, the entities and forces described in origin myths are often considered sacred. Thus, by attributing the state of the universe to the actions of these entities and forces, origin myths give the current order an aura of sacredness: \"Myths reveal that the World, man, and life have a supernatural origin and history, and that this history is significant, precious, and exemplary.\" Many cultures instil the expectation that people take mythical gods and heroes as their role models, imitating their deeds and upholding the customs they established:\n\nWhen the missionary and ethnologist C. Strehlow asked the Australian Arunta why they performed certain ceremonies, the answer was always: \"Because the ancestors so commanded it.\" The Kai of New Guinea refused to change their way of living and working, and they explained: \"It was thus that the Nemu (the Mythical Ancestors) did, and we do likewise.\" Asked the reason for a particular detail in a ceremony, a Navaho chanter answered: \"Because the Holy People did it that way in the first place.\" We find exactly the same justification in the prayer that accompanies a primitive Tibetan ritual: \"As it has been handed down from the beginning of the earth’s creation, so must we sacrifice. … As our ancestors in ancient times did—so do we now.\"\nFounding myths unite people and tend to include mystical events along the way to make \"founders\" seem more desirable and heroic. Ruling monarchs or aristocracies may allege descent from mythical founders/gods/heroes in order to legitimate their control. For example: Julius Caesar and his relatives claimed Aeneas (and through Aeneas, the goddess Venus) as an ancestor.\n\nA \"founding myth\" or etiological myth (Greek \"aition\") explains either:\n\n\nA founding myth may serve as the primary \"exemplum\", as the myth of Ixion was the original Greek example of a murderer rendered unclean by his crime, who needed cleansing (\"catharsis\") of his impurity.\n\nFounding myths feature prominently in Greek mythology. \"Ancient Greek rituals were bound to prominent local groups and hence to specific localities\", Walter Burkert has observed. \"i.e. the sanctuaries and altars that had been set up for all time\". Thus Greek and Hebrew founding myths established the special relationship between a deity and local people, who traced their origins from a hero and authenticated their ancestral rights through the founding myth. Greek founding myths often embody a justification for the ancient overturning of an older, archaic order, reformulating a historical event anchored in the social and natural world to valorize current community practices, creating symbolic narratives of \"collective importance\" enriched with metaphor in order to account for traditional chronologies, and constructing an etiology considered to be plausible among those with a cultural investment.\n\nIn the Greek view, the mythic past had deep roots in \"historic\" time, its legends treated as facts, as Carlo Brillante has noted, its heroic protagonists seen as links between the \"age of origins\" and the mortal, everyday world that succeeded it. A modern translator of Apollonius' \"Argonautica\" has noted, of the many \"aitia\" embedded as digressions in that Hellenistic epic, that \"crucial to social stability had to be the function of myths in providing explanations, authorization or empowerment for the present in terms of origins: this could apply, not only to foundations or charter myths and genealogical trees (thus supporting family or territorial claims) but also to personal moral choices.\" In the period after Alexander the Great expanded the Hellenistic world, Greek poetry—Callimachus wrote a whole work simply titled \"Aitia\"—is replete with founding myths. Simon Goldhill employs the metaphor of sedimentation in describing Apollonius' laying down of layers \"where each object, cult, ritual, name, may be opened... into a narrative of origination, and where each narrative, each event, may lead to a cult, ritual, name, monument.\"\n\nA notable example is the myth of the foundation of Rome—the tale of Romulus and Remus, which Virgil in turn broadens in his \"Aeneid\" with the odyssey of Aeneas and his razing of Lavinium, and his son Iulus's later relocation and rule of the famous twins' birthplace Alba Longa, and their descent from his royal line, thus fitting perfectly into the already established canon of events. Similarly, the Old Testament's story of the Exodus serves as the founding myth for the community of Israel, telling how God delivered the Israelites from slavery and how they therefore belonged to him through the Covenant of Mount Sinai.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, founding myths of the medieval communes of northern Italy manifested the increasing self-confidence of the urban population and the will to find a Roman origin, however tenuous and legendary. In 13th-century Padua, when each commune looked for a Roman founder - and if one was not available, invented one—a legend had been current in the city, attributing its foundation to the Trojan Antenor.\n\nLarger-than-life heroes continue to bolster the origin-myths of many newer nations and societies. In modern-era colonial contexts, waves of individuals and groups come to the fore in popular history as shaping and exemplifying the ideals of a group: explorers followed by conquerors followed by developers/exploiters. Note for example the conquistadors of the Iberian empires, the bandeirantes in Brazil, the coureurs des bois in Canada, the Cossacks and the promyshlenniki in Siberia and in Alaska, the bands of pioneers in the central and western United States, and the voortrekkers in Southern Africa.\n\nFoundational stories are accounts of the development of cities and nations. A foundational story represents the view that the creation of the city is a human achievement. Human control and the removal of \"wild, uncontrolled\" nature is underlined. There are two versions of foundational stories: \"civilization story\" and \"degradation story\".\n\n\"Civilization stories\" take a view of nature as dangerous and wild. The development of the city is seen as a successful distancing of humans from nature. Nature is locked out, and humans take pride in doing so successfully. In 1984 the geographer Yi-Fu Tuan suggested ranking cities according to their distance to natural rhythms and cycles.\n\n\"Degradation stories\" (also called \"pollution stories\") take a different stance. The city is seen as spoiling the landscape of the ecological relations that existed before the city was established. There is a sense of guilt for degrading the intact system of nature. In degradation stories true nature only exists outside the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "54389992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54389992", "title": "Pokekea Megalithic Site", "text": "Pokekea Megalithic Site\n\nThe Pokekea Megalithic Site is a megalithic archaeological site in the Lore Lindu National Park. It is located in the Behoa (Besoa) Valley northwest of Bada Valley. The Behoa valley is notable for its preserved kalambas, megaliths shaped like large cylindrical stone vats. The kalambas served as communal funerary urns and resemble in form and function the monuments on the Plain of Jars in Laos.\n\nAt Pokekea there are 27 kalambas, together with decorated stone lids and statues (Indonesian: \"arcas\"). A kalamba at the park entrance is decorated by faces arranged in a strip along its outer wall. Their features are similar to the arcas in the Bada Valley. The lids next to the kalambas are also decorated, some with small protruding statues of monkeys and lizards around their edge. Excavations at the site carried out in 2008 by Dwi Yuniawati have shown that kalambas served as family burial chambers containing a minimum of ten people. The kalambas probably did not house the remains of the entire tribe, but were reserved for the elite. The remains show traces of teeth mutilation and cremation.\n\nAnalysis of two kalambas at Pokekea carried out in 2006 by Wiebke Kirleis, Valério Pillar and Hermann Behling suggest a date range between 766–898 and 1146–1272 AD.\n"}
{"id": "18375492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18375492", "title": "Siburius", "text": "Siburius\n\nSiburius (\"fl.\" 370s), for whom only the single name survives, was a high-ranking official of the Roman Empire. He was one of several Gauls who rose to political prominence in the late 4th century as a result of the emperor Gratian's appointment of his Bordelaise tutor Ausonius to high office.\n\nLike Ausonius, Siburius came from Bordeaux. The medical writer Marcellus, their countryman, places Siburius in the company of the historian Eutropius and Julius Ausonius, father of the political scholar-poet, as peers with a literary expertise in medicine.\n\nIn early 376, Siburius was \"magister officiorum\" under Gratian. He succeeded Ausonius as \"praefectus praetorio Galliarum\" (praetorian prefect of Gaul) sometime before December 3, 379, and held the office until 382, when he was succeeded by Mallius Theodorus.\n\nOther scanty evidence of Siburius's life comes from the correspondence of the Antiochan scholar Libanius, who has one letter addressed to him and two to his son, who had the same name. Libanius also mentions Siburius once elsewhere. The son was proconsul of Palaestina Prima around 390.\n\nSiburius is the addressee of three letters among the correspondence of Quintus Aurelius Symmachus, the advocate of religious tolerance who attempted to preserve the traditional religions of Rome at a time when Christianity had become dominant. Symmachus teases Siburius about his archaic writing style (\"ἀρχαϊσμὸν scribendi\"):\n\nIn the assessment of commentator Andrea Pellizzari, Siburius was indeed \"un uomo di grande cultura,\" a highly cultured person.\n\nSiburius's son still practiced the traditional religions of antiquity; Libanius refers to his Hellenism. If the father, as seems likely from Symmachus's remarks, also had not converted, Siburius would have been the first non-Christian to hold the prefecture of Gaul since the death of the emperor Julian, and the last to hold the office.\n\n"}
{"id": "17590086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17590086", "title": "Spit (archaeology)", "text": "Spit (archaeology)\n\nIn the field of archaeology, a spit is a unit of archaeological excavation with an arbitrarily assigned measurement of depth and extent. It is a method of excavation employed without regard to the archaeological stratigraphy that may (or may not) be identifiable at the archaeological site under investigation. The method of excavating in arbitrary spits is most frequently encountered at site excavations which lack any visible or reconstructable stratigraphy in the archaeological context, or when excavating through intrusive or fill deposits.\n\n\"Spit\" is an old English word that archaeologists continue to use. It means an arbitrary or artificial level (the latter expression is preferred by American archaeologists). Today archaeologists rarely dig in spits, except as vertical subdivisions of natural layers that are not naturally subdivided.\n\nThe excavation of sites in arbitrary levels was a product of archaeologists excavating for interesting things and structures rather than trying to reveal the strata of an archaeological site in the order they were laid down. As Sir Mortimer Wheeler put it:\n\n[T]he methodical digging for systematic information not with the upturning of earth in a hunt for bones of saints and giants or the armoury of heroes, or just plainly for treasure. \n\nWheeler was a strong advocate for the use of stratigraphy and was very critical of the use of spits, noting that \"a modern\" (i.e. 1950) Manual of Field Archaeological Methods prepared by a leading American University advocated this method. Apparently an archaeological site was to be excavated using arbitrary levels and then the stratigraphy was drawn in the exposed sections and the two were to be correlated in some way. \n\nAustralian archaeologist John Clegg comments \"Prehistoric archaeologists at Cambridge in the 1950s were taught to dig in spits if:\n\n\nThe theoretical point was that no one can be certain of strata by just digging down with no visible/tangible changes; the first trench should always be in spits, till sections are visible (comment posted to the Ausarch discussion list May 2008). \n\nThe use of arbitrary levels and Wheeler's critique is discussed by American archaeologists Hester \"et al.\", where they emphasise that the technique is only justified where there is no visible stratigraphy. Another influential textbook, Hole and Heizer's \"An Introduction to Prehistoric Archaeology\", does not overtly condemned spit excavation. Prominent Mesoamerican archaeologist Kent V. Flannery (writing in the early 1970s) refers to the practice in the context of Mesoamerican archaeology, and illustrates its problems; the technique continues to find its practitioners. \n\nModern stratigraphically based archaeological excavation techniques are discussed in Philip Barker's \"Techniques of archaeological excavation\" (1993).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12830970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12830970", "title": "The Memoirs of Naim Bey", "text": "The Memoirs of Naim Bey\n\nThe Memoirs of Naim Bey: Turkish Official Documents Relating to the Deportation and the Massacres of Armenians, also known as the \"Talat Pasha telegrams\", is a book written by historian and journalist Aram Andonian in 1919. Originally redacted in Armenian, it was popularized worldwide through the English edition published by Hodder & Stoughtons of London. It includes several documents (telegrams) that constitute evidence that the Armenian Genocide was formally implemented as Ottoman Empire policy.\n\nThe first edition in English had an introduction by Viscount Gladstone.\n\nAccording to Andonian, the documents were collected by an Ottoman official called Naim Bey, who was working in the Refugees Office in Aleppo, and handed by him to Andonian. Each note bears the signature of Mehmed Talaat Pasha, the Minister of Interior and later Grand Vizier of the Ottoman Empire. The contents of these telegrams \"clearly states his intention to exterminate all Armenians, outlines the extermination plan, offers a guarantee of immunity for officials, calls for tighter censorship and draws special attention to the children in Armenian orphanages.\" The telegrams remain in coded form and are written in Ottoman Turkish.\n\nThe overall picture emerging from these narrations points to a network of the extermination for most of the deportees. It overwhelmingly confirms the fact of what British historian Arnold J. Toynbee (LSE, University of London) called \"this gigantic crime that devastated the Near East\".\n\nIn 1983, the Turkish Historical Association (an organization linked to Armenian Genocide denial) published a now discredited work titled \"Ermenilerce Talat Pasa’ya Atfedilen Telgraflarin Gercek Yüzü\" by Şinasi Orel and Süreyya Yuca. In the introduction to \"The Talat Pasha Telegrams: Historical Fact or Armenian Fiction\", its English-language edition published in 1985, Orel and Yuca wrote that the term \"genocide\" and the term \"massacres\" were being wrongly applied to define the Armenian Genocide (which its authors describe as an Armenian \"claim\" and a \"calumny directed against Turkey\"), and that the documents contained within The Memoirs of Naim Bey were forgeries that had been, for more than 60 years, used as the basis for those charges of genocide and massacre. \n\nThe French historian Yves Ternon who convened at the 1984 Permanent Peoples' Tribunal contends that these telegrams however, \"were authenticated by experts…[but] they were sent back to Andonian in London and lost.\"\n\nHistorian Vahakn N. Dadrian has argued in 1986 that the points brought forth by Turkish historians are misleading and has countered the discrepancies they have raised.\n\nScottish historian Niall Ferguson, professor of history at Harvard University, senior research fellow of Jesus College, University of Oxford, and senior fellow of the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, and Richard Albrecht among others also point to the fact that the court did not question the authenticity of the telegrams in 1921–which, however, were not introduced as evidence in court–and that the British had also intercepted numerous telegrams which directly \"incriminated exchanges between Talaat and other Turkish officials\", and that \"one of the leading scientific experts, Vahakn N. Dadrian, in 1986, verified the documents as authentic telegrams send out by [...] Talat Pasha\". He adds:\n\nTurkish historian Taner Akçam mentions similarities between the telegrams published by Andonian to extant Ottoman documents. In a book published in 2016, named “The Naim Efendi Memoirs and Talat Pasha Telegrams”, he claims that the memoir and the telegrams are real. Akçam states that throughout his research he has discovered some serious new information and documents supporting his claim. Akçam summarizes them as following:\n\n\nGuenter Lewy, a political scientist and Genocide denier, also states that the telegrams form the \"centerpiece\" of \"the case against the Turks\", that the authenticity of the Naim-Andonian documents \"will only be resolved through the discovery and publication of relevant Ottoman documents\", and calls Orel and Yuca's work a \"painstaking analysis of these documents\" that makes \"any use of them in a serious scholarly work unacceptable\". About this position David B. MacDonald wrote that Lewy is content to rely on the work of \"Turkish deniers Şinasi Orel and Sureyya Yuca\": \"Lewy's conception of shaky pillars echoes the work of Holocaust deniers, who also see Holocaust history resting on pillars... This is a dangerous proposition, because it assumes from the start that genocide scholarship rests on lies which can easily be disproved once a deeper examination of the historical 'truth' is undertaken\".\n\nOther opinions include Dutch professor Erik-Jan Zürcher (professor of Turkish studies at Leiden University) ; Zürcher does however point to many other corroborating documents supporting the Andonian Telegrams assertion of core involvement and premeditation of the killing by the central CUP members. Scholars who share revisionist opinions about the Andonian documents include Bernard Lewis (Professor Emeritus of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton University and Genocide denier), who classifies the \"Talat Pasha telegrams\" among the \"celebrated historical fabrications\", on the same level than \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", Andrew Mango (a biographer of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk) who speaks of \"telegrams dubiously attributed to the Ottoman wartime Minister of the Interior, Talat Pasha\", Paul Dumont (Professor of Turkish studies at Strasbourg University) who stated in one of his books that \"the authenticity of the alleged telegrams of Ottoman government, ordering the destruction of Armenians is today seriously contested\", Norman Stone (Bilkent University, Ankara, Turkey), who calls the Naim-Andonian book \"a forgery\"; and by Gilles Veinstein, professor of Ottoman and Turkish history at Collège de France, who considers the documents as \"nothing but fakes\".\n\nDr. Israel Charny, a Genocide scholar and executive director of the Institute on the Holocaust and Genocide in Jerusalem wrote that Bernard Lewis' \"seemingly scholarly concern ... of Armenians constituting a threat to the Turks as a rebellious force who together with the Russians threatened the Ottoman Empire, and the insistence that only a policy of deportations was executed, barely conceal the fact that the organized deportations constituted systematic mass murder\". Charny compares the \"logical structures\" employed by Lewis in his denial of the genocide to those employed by Ernst Nolte in his Holocaust negationism.\n\n\nNote: Although the Armenian edition was published after the other two versions, historian Vahakn Dadrian states that the Armenian text constitutes the original that Aram Andonian wrote back in 1919. Taking into account the delay in its publication helps to explain some \"errors\" identified by some Turkish authors in dating the documents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30062", "title": "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus", "text": "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\n\nThe Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (TLP) (Latin for \"Logico-Philosophical Treatise\") is the only book-length philosophical work published by the Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein in his lifetime. The project had a broad aimto identify the relationship between language and reality and to define the limits of scienceand is recognized as a significant philosophical work of the twentieth century. G. E. Moore originally suggested the work's Latin title as homage to the \"Tractatus Theologico-Politicus\" by Baruch Spinoza.\n\nWittgenstein wrote the notes for the \"Tractatus\" while he was a soldier during World War I and completed it during a military leave in the summer of 1918. It was first published in German in 1921 as \"Logisch-Philosophische Abhandlung\". The \"Tractatus\" was influential chiefly amongst the logical positivists of the Vienna Circle, such as Rudolf Carnap and Friedrich Waismann. Bertrand Russell's article \"The Philosophy of Logical Atomism\" is presented as a working out of ideas that he had learned from Wittgenstein.\n\nThe \"Tractatus\" employs an austere and succinct literary style. The work contains almost no arguments as such, but rather consists of declarative statements, or passages, that are meant to be self-evident. The statements are hierarchically numbered, with seven basic propositions at the primary level (numbered 1–7), with each sub-level being a comment on or elaboration of the statement at the next higher level (e.g., 1, 1.1, 1.11, 1.12, 1.13). In all, the Tractatus comprises 526 numbered statements, with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 having 7, 79, 74, 109, 151, 105 and 1 associated statement(s), respectively.\n\nWittgenstein's later works, notably the posthumously published \"Philosophical Investigations\", criticised many of the ideas in the \"Tractatus\".\n\nThere are seven main propositions in the text. These are:\n\nThe first chapter is very brief:\n\nThis along with the beginning of two can be taken to be the relevant parts of Wittgenstein's metaphysical view that he will use to support his picture theory of language.\n\nThese sections concern Wittgenstein's view that the sensible, changing world we perceive does not consist of substance but of facts. Proposition two begins with a discussion of objects, form and substance.\n\nThis epistemic notion is further clarified by a discussion of objects or things as metaphysical substances.\n\nHis use of the word \"composite\" in 2.021 can be taken to mean a combination of form and matter, in the Platonic sense.\n\nThe notion of a static unchanging Form and its identity with Substance represents the metaphysical view that has come to be held as an assumption by the vast majority of the Western philosophical tradition since Plato and Aristotle, as it was something they agreed on. is called a form or a substance is not generated.\" (Z.8 1033b13)\nThe opposing view states that unalterable Form does not exist, or at least if there is such a thing, it contains an ever changing, relative substance in a constant state of flux. Although this view was held by Greeks like Heraclitus, it has existed only on the fringe of the Western tradition since then. It is commonly known now only in \"Eastern\" metaphysical views where the primary concept of substance is Qi, or something similar, which persists through and beyond any given Form. The former view is shown to be held by Wittgenstein in what follows:\nAlthough Wittgenstein largely disregarded Aristotle (Ray Monk's biography suggests that he never read Aristotle at all) it seems that they shared some anti-Platonist views on the universal/particular issue regarding primary substances. He attacks universals explicitly in his Blue Book.\n\"The idea of a general concept being a common property of its particular instances connects up with other primitive, too simple, ideas of the structure of language. It is comparable to the idea that properties are ingredients of the things which have the properties; e.g. that beauty is an ingredient of all beautiful things as alcohol is of beer and wine, and that we therefore could have pure beauty, unadulterated by anything that is beautiful.\"\n\nAnd Aristotle agrees: \"The universal cannot be a substance in the manner in which an essence is ...\" (Z.13 1038b17) as he begins to draw the line and drift away from the concepts of universal Forms held by his teacher Plato.\n\nThe concept of Essence, taken alone is a potentiality, and its combination with matter is its actuality. \"First, the substance of a thing is peculiar to it and does not belong to any other thing\" (Z.13 1038b10), i.e. not universal and we know this is essence. This concept of form/substance/essence, which we've now collapsed into one, being presented as potential is also, apparently, held by Wittgenstein:\nHere ends what Wittgenstein deems to be the relevant points of his metaphysical view and he begins in 2.1 to use said view to support his Picture Theory of Language. \n\"The Tractatus's notion of substance is the modal analogue of Kant's temporal notion. Whereas for Kant, substance is that which 'persists' (i.e., exists at all times), for Wittgenstein it is that which, figuratively speaking, 'persists' through a 'space' of possible worlds.\"\nWhether the Aristotelian notions of substance came to Wittgenstein via Immanuel Kant, or via Bertrand Russell, or even whether Wittgenstein arrived at his notions intuitively, one cannot but see them.\n\nThe further thesis of 2. and 3. and their subsidiary propositions is Wittgenstein’s \"picture theory\" of language. This can be summed up as follows:\n\nThe 4s are significant as they contain some of Wittgenstein's most explicit statements concerning the nature of philosophy and the distinction between what can be said and what can only be shown. It is here, for instance, that he first distinguishes between material and grammatical propositions, noting:\n\nA philosophical treatise attempts to \"say\" something where nothing can properly be said. It is predicated upon the idea that philosophy should be pursued in a way analogous to the natural sciences; that philosophers are looking to construct true theories. This sense of philosophy does not coincide with Wittgenstein's conception of philosophy.\n\nWittgenstein is to be credited with the invention or at least the popularization of truth tables (4.31) and truth conditions (4.431) which now constitute the standard semantic analysis of first-order sentential logic. The philosophical significance of such a method for Wittgenstein was that it alleviated a confusion, namely the idea that logical inferences are justified by rules. If an argument form is valid, the conjunction of the premises will be logically equivalent to the conclusion and this can be clearly seen in a truth table; it is \"displayed\". The concept of tautology is thus central to Wittgenstein's Tractarian account of logical consequence, which is strictly deductive.\n\nAt the beginning of Proposition 6, Wittgenstein postulates the essential form of all sentences. He uses the notation formula_1, where\n\nProposition 6 says that any logical sentence can be derived from a series of NOR operations on the totality of atomic propositions. Wittgenstein drew from Henry M. Sheffer's logical theorem making that statement in the context of the propositional calculus. Wittgenstein's N-operator is an broader infinitary analogue of the Sheffer stroke, which applied to a set of propositions produces a proposition that is equivalent to the denial of every member of that set. Wittgenstein shows that this operator can cope with the whole of predicate logic with identity, defining the quantifiers at 5.52, and showing how identity would then be handled at 5.53-5.532.\n\nThe subsidiaries of 6. contain more philosophical reflections on logic, connecting to ideas of knowledge, thought, and the \"a priori\" and transcendental. The final passages argue that logic and mathematics express only tautologies and are transcendental, i.e. they lie outside of the metaphysical subject’s world. In turn, a logically \"ideal\" language cannot supply meaning, it can only reflect the world, and so, sentences in a logical language cannot remain meaningful if they are not merely reflections of the facts.\n\nFrom Propositions 6.4-6.54, the Tractatus shifts its focus from primarily logical considerations to what may be considered more traditionally philosophical foci (God, ethics, meta-ethics, death, the will) and, less traditionally along with these, the mystical. The philosophy of language presented in the Tractatus attempts to demonstrate just what the limits of language are- to delineate precisely what can and cannot be sensically said. Among the sensibly sayable for Wittgenstein are the propositions of natural science, and to the nonsensical, or unsayable, those subjects associated with philosophy traditionally- ethics and metaphysics, for instance. Curiously, on this score, the penultimate proposition of the Tractatus, proposition 6.54, states that once one understands the propositions of the Tractatus, he will recognize that they are senseless, and that they must be thrown away. Proposition 6.54, then, presents a difficult interpretative problem. If the so-called ‘picture theory’ of meaning is correct, and it is impossible to represent logical form, then the theory, by trying to say something about how language and the world must be for there to be meaning, is self-undermining. This is to say that the ‘picture theory’ of meaning itself requires that something be said about the logical form sentences must share with reality for meaning to be possible. This requires doing precisely what the ‘picture theory’ of meaning precludes. It would appear, then, that the metaphysics and the philosophy of language endorsed by the Tractatus give rise to a paradox: for the Tractatus to be true, it will necessarily have to be nonsense by self-application; but for this self-application to render the propositions of the Tractatus nonsense (in the Tractarian sense), then the Tractatus must be true.\n\nThere are three primarily dialectical approaches to solving this paradox the traditionalist, or Ineffable-Truths View; 2) the resolute, ‘new Wittgenstein’, or Not-All-Nonsense View; 3) the No-Truths-At-All View. The traditionalist approach to resolving this paradox is to hold that Wittgenstein accepted that philosophical statements could not be made, but that nevertheless, by appealing to the distinction between saying and showing, that these truths can be communicated by showing. On the resolute reading, some of the propositions of the Tractatus are withheld from self-application, they are not themselves nonsense, but point out the nonsensical nature of the Tractatus. This view often appeals to the so-called ‘frame’ of the Tractatus, comprising the preface and propositions 6.54. The No-Truths-At-All View states that Wittgenstein held the propositions of the Tractatus to be ambiguously both true and nonsensical, at once. While the propositions could not be, by self-application of the attendant philosophy of the Tractatus, true (or even sensical), it was only the philosophy of the Tractatus itself that could render them so. This is presumably what made Wittgenstein compelled to accept the philosophy of the Tractatus as specially having solved the problems of philosophy. It is the philosophy of the Tractatus, alone, that can solve the problems. Indeed, the philosophy of the Tractatus is for Wittgenstein, on this view, problematic only when applied to itself.\n\nAt the end of the text Wittgenstein uses an analogy from Arthur Schopenhauer, and compares the book to a ladder that must be thrown away after one has climbed it.\n\nAs the last line in the book, proposition 7 has no supplementary propositions. It ends the book with the proposition \"Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent.\" (\"„Wovon man nicht sprechen kann, darüber muss man schweigen.\"\")\n\nA prominent view set out in the \"Tractatus\" is the picture theory, sometimes called the picture theory of language. The picture theory is a proposed explanation of the capacity of language and thought to represent the world. Although something need not be a proposition to represent something in the world, Wittgenstein was largely concerned with the way propositions function as representations.\n\nAccording to the theory, propositions can \"picture\" the world as being a certain way, and thus accurately represent it either truly or falsely. If someone thinks the proposition, \"There is a tree in the yard,\" then that proposition accurately pictures the world if and only if there is a tree in the yard. One aspect of pictures which Wittgenstein finds particularly illuminating in comparison with language is the fact that we can directly see in the picture what situation it depicts without knowing if the situation actually obtains. This allows Wittgenstein to explain how false propositions can have meaning (a problem which Russell struggled with for many years): just as we can see directly from the picture the situation which it depicts without knowing if it in fact obtains, analogously, when we understand a proposition we grasp its truth conditions or its sense, that is, we know what the world must be like if it is true, without knowing if it is in fact true (TLP 4.024, 4.431).\n\nIt is believed that Wittgenstein was inspired for this theory by the way that traffic courts in Paris reenact automobile accidents. A toy car is a representation of a real car, a toy truck is a representation of a real truck, and dolls are representations of people. In order to convey to a judge what happened in an automobile accident, someone in the courtroom might place the toy cars in a position like the position the real cars were in, and move them in the ways that the real cars moved. In this way, the elements of the picture (the toy cars) are in spatial relation to one another, and this relation itself pictures the spatial relation between the real cars in the automobile accident.\n\nPictures have what Wittgenstein calls \"Form der Abbildung\" or pictorial form, which they share with what they depict. This means that all the logically possible arrangements of the pictorial elements in the picture correspond to the possibilities of arranging the things which they depict in reality. Thus if the model for car A stands to the left of the model for car B, it depicts that the cars in the world stand in the same way relative to each other. This picturing relation, Wittgenstein believed, was our key to understanding the relationship a proposition holds to the world. Although language differs from pictures in lacking direct pictorial mode of representation (e.g., it doesn't use colors and shapes to represent colors and shapes), still Wittgenstein believed that propositions are \"logical pictures\" of the world by virtue of sharing logical form with the reality which they represent (TLP 2.18-2.2). And that he thought, explains how we can understand a proposition without its meaning having been explained to us (TLP 4.02), we can directly see in the proposition what it represents as we see in the picture the situation which it depicts just by virtue of knowing its method of depiction: propositions \"show\" their sense (TLP 4.022).\n\nHowever, Wittgenstein claimed that pictures cannot represent their \"own\" logical form, they cannot \"say\" what they have in common with reality but can only \"show\" it (TLP 4.12-4.121). If representation consist in depicting an arrangement of elements in logical space, then logical space itself can't be depicted since it is itself not an arrangement of \"anything\"; rather logical form is a feature of an arrangement of objects and thus it can be properly expressed (that is depicted) in language by an analogous arrangement of the relevant signs in sentences (which contain the same possibilities of combination as prescribed by logical syntax), hence logical form can only be shown by presenting the logical relations between different sentences.\n\nWittgenstein's conception of representation as picturing also allows him to derive two striking claims: that no proposition can be known \"a priori\" - there are no apriori truths (TLP 3.05), and that there is only \"logical\" necessity (TLP 6.37). Since all propositions, by virtue of being pictures, have sense independently of anything being the case in reality, we cannot see from the proposition alone whether it is true (as would be the case if it could be known apriori), but we must compare it to reality in order to know that it's true (TLP 4.031 \"In the proposition a state of affairs is, as it were, put together for the sake of experiment.\"). And for similar reasons, no proposition is necessarily true except in the limiting case of tautologies, which Wittgenstein say lack sense (TLP 4.461). If a proposition pictures a state of affairs in virtue of being a picture in logical space, then a non-logical or metaphysical \"necessary truth\" would be a state of affairs which is satisfied by any possible arrangement of objects (since it is true for any possible state of affairs), but this means that the would-be necessary proposition would not depict anything as \"being so\" but will be true no matter what the world is actually like; but if that's the case, then the proposition cannot say anything about the world or describe any fact in it - it would not be correlated with any particular state of affairs, just like a tautology (TLP 6.37).\n\nAlthough Wittgenstein did not use the term himself, his metaphysical view throughout the \"Tractatus\" is commonly referred to as logical atomism. While his logical atomism resembles that of Bertrand Russell, the two views are not strictly the same.\n\nRussell's theory of descriptions is a way of logically analyzing sentences containing definite descriptions without presupposing the existence of an object satisfying the description. According to the theory, a statement like \"There is a man to my left\" should be analyzed into: \"There is some \"x\" such that \"x\" is a man and \"x\" is to my left, and for any \"y\", if \"y\" is a man and \"y\" is to my left, \"y\" is identical to \"x\"\". If the statement is true, \"x\" refers to the man to my left.\n\nWhereas Russell believed the names (like \"x\") in his theory should refer to things we can know directly by virtue of acquaintance, Wittgenstein didn't believe that there are any epistemic constraints on logical analyses: the simple objects are whatever is contained in the elementary propositions which can't be logically analyzed any further.\n\nBy \"objects\", Wittgenstein did not mean physical objects in the world, but the absolute base of logical analysis, that can be combined but not divided (TLP 2.02–2.0201). According to Wittgenstein's logico-atomistic metaphysical system, objects each have a \"nature,\" which is their capacity to combine with other objects. When combined, objects form \"states of affairs.\" A state of affairs that obtains is a \"fact.\" Facts make up the entirety of the world. Facts are logically independent of one another, as are states of affairs. That is, one state of affair's (or fact's) existence does not allow us to infer whether another state of affairs (or fact) exists or does not exist.\n\nWithin states of affairs, objects are in particular relations to one another. This is analogous to the spatial relations between toy cars discussed above. The structure of states of affairs comes from the arrangement of their constituent objects (TLP 2.032), and such arrangement is essential to their intelligibility, just as the toy cars must be arranged in a certain way in order to picture the automobile accident.\n\nA fact might be thought of as the obtaining state of affairs that Madison is in Wisconsin, and a possible (but not obtaining) state of affairs might be Madison's being in Utah. These states of affairs are made up of certain arrangements of objects (TLP 2.023). However, Wittgenstein does not specify what objects are. Madison, Wisconsin, and Utah cannot be atomic objects: they are themselves composed of numerous facts. Instead, Wittgenstein believed objects to be the things in the world that would correlate to the smallest parts of a logically analyzed language, such as names like \"x\". Our language is not sufficiently (i.e., not completely) analyzed for such a correlation, so one cannot \"say\" what an object is. We can, however, talk about them as \"indestructible\" and \"common to all possible worlds.\" Wittgenstein believed that the philosopher's job was to discover the structure of language through analysis.\n\nAnthony Kenny provides a useful analogy for understanding Wittgenstein's logical atomism: a slightly modified game of chess. Just like objects in states of affairs, the chess pieces do not alone constitute the game—their arrangements, together with the pieces (objects) themselves, determine the state of affairs.\n\nThrough Kenny's chess analogy, we can see the relationship between Wittgenstein's logical atomism and his picture theory of representation. For the sake of this analogy, the chess pieces are objects, they and their positions constitute states of affairs and therefore facts, and the totality of facts is the entire particular game of chess.\n\nWe can communicate such a game of chess in the exact way that Wittgenstein says a proposition represents the world. We might say \"WR/KR1\" to communicate a white rook's being on the square commonly labeled as king's rook 1. Or, to be more thorough, we might make such a report for every piece's position.\n\nThe logical form of our reports must be the same logical form of the chess pieces and their arrangement on the board in order to be meaningful. Our communication about the chess game must have as many possibilities for constituents and their arrangement as the game itself. Kenny points out that such logical form need not strictly resemble the chess game. The logical form can be had by the bouncing of a ball (for example, twenty bounces might communicate a white rook's being on the king's rook 1 square). One can bounce a ball as many times as one wishes, which means the ball's bouncing has \"logical multiplicity,\" and can therefore share the logical form of the game. A motionless ball cannot communicate this same information, as it does not have logical multiplicity.\n\nAccording to traditional reading of the Tractatus, Wittgenstein's views about logic and language led him to believe that some features of language and reality cannot be expressed in senseful language but only \"shown\" by the form of certain expressions. Thus for example, according to the picture theory, when a proposition is thought or expressed, the proposition represents reality (truly or falsely) by virtue of sharing some features with that reality in common. However, those features themselves is something Wittgenstein claimed we could not \"say\" anything about, because we cannot describe the relationship that pictures bear to what they depict, but only show it via fact stating propositions (TLP 4.121). Thus we cannot say \"that\" there is a correspondence between language and reality, but the correspondence itself can only be \"shown\", since our language is not capable of describing its own logical structure.\n\nHowever, on the more recent \"resolute\" interpretation of the Tractatus (see below), the remarks on \"showing\" were not in fact an attempt by Wittgenstein to gesture at the existence of some ineffable features of language or reality, but rather, as Cora Diamond and James Conant have argued, the distinction was meant to draw a sharp contrast between logic and descriptive discourse. On their reading, Wittgenstein indeed meant that some things are shown when we reflect on the logic of our language, but \"what\" is shown in not \"that\" something is the case, as if we could somehow think it (and thus understand what Wittgenstein tries to show us) but for some reason we just couldn't say it. As Diamond and Conant explain:\n\nSimilarly, Michael Kremer suggested that Wittgenstein's distinction between saying and showing could be compared with Gilbert Ryle's famous distinction between \"knowing that\" and \"knowing how\". Just as practical knowledge or skill (such as riding a bike) is not reducible to propositional knowledge according to Ryle, Wittgenstein also thought that the mastery of the logic of our language is a unique practical skill that doesn't involve any sort of propositional \"knowing that\", but rather is reflected in our ability to operate with senseful sentences and grasping their internal logical relations.\n\nWittgenstein concluded that the \"Tractatus\" had resolved all philosophical problems.\n\nThe book was translated into English by C. K. Ogden with help from the teenaged Cambridge mathematician and philosopher Frank P. Ramsey. Ramsey later visited Wittgenstein in Austria. Translation issues make the concepts hard to pinpoint, especially given Wittgenstein's usage of terms and difficulty in translating ideas into words.\n\nThe \"Tractatus\" caught the attention of the philosophers of the Vienna Circle (1921–1933), especially Rudolf Carnap and Moritz Schlick. The group spent many months working through the text out loud, line by line. Schlick eventually convinced Wittgenstein to meet with members of the circle to discuss the \"Tractatus\" when he returned to Vienna (he was then working as an architect). Although the Vienna Circle's logical positivists appreciated the \"Tractatus\", they argued that the last few passages, including Proposition 7, are confused. Carnap hailed the book as containing important insights, but encouraged people to ignore the concluding sentences. Wittgenstein responded to Schlick, commenting: \"...I cannot imagine that Carnap should have so completely misunderstood the last sentences of the book and hence the fundamental conception of the entire book.\"\n\nA more recent interpretation comes from The New Wittgenstein family of interpretations under development since 2000. This so-called \"resolute reading\" is controversial and much debated. The main contention of such readings is that Wittgenstein in the \"Tractatus\" does not provide a theoretical account of language that relegates ethics and philosophy to a mystical realm of the unsayable. Rather, the book has a therapeutic aim. By working through the propositions of the book the reader comes to realize that language is perfectly suited to all his needs, and that philosophy rests on a confused relation to the logic of our language. The confusion that the \"Tractatus\" seeks to dispel is not a confused theory, such that a correct theory would be a proper way to clear the confusion, rather the need of any such theory is confused. The method of the \"Tractatus\" is to make the reader aware of the logic of our language as he is already familiar with it, and the effect of thereby dispelling the need for a theoretical account of the logic of our language spreads to all other areas of philosophy. Thereby the confusion involved in putting forward e.g. ethical and metaphysical theories is cleared in the same \"coup\".\n\nWittgenstein would not meet the Vienna Circle proper, but only a few of its members, including Schlick, Carnap, and Waissman. Often, though, he refused to discuss philosophy, and would insist on giving the meetings over to reciting the poetry of Rabindranath Tagore with his chair turned to the wall. He largely broke off formal relations even with these members of the circle after coming to believe Carnap had used some of his ideas without permission.\n\nAlfred Korzybski credits Wittgenstein as an influence in his book, \"Science and Sanity: An Introduction to Non-Aristotelian Systems and General Semantics\".\n\nThe \"Tractatus\" was the theme of a 1992 film by the Hungarian filmmaker Peter Forgacs. The 32-minute production, named \"Wittgenstein Tractatus\", features citations from the \"Tractatus\" and other works by Wittgenstein.\n\nIn 1989 the Finnish artist M. A. Numminen released a black vinyl album, \"The Tractatus Suite\", consisting of extracts from the \"Tractatus\" set to music, on the Forward! label (GN-95). The tracks were [T. 1] \"The World is...\", [T. 2] \"In order to tell\", [T. 4] \"A thought is...\", [T. 5] \"A proposition is...\", [T. 6] \"The general form of a truth-function\", and [T. 7] \"Wovon man nicht sprechen kann\". It was recorded at Finnvox Studios, Helsinki between February and June 1989. The \"lyrics\" were provided in German, English, Esperanto, French, Finnish and Swedish.\nThe music was reissued as a CD in 2003, \"M.A. Numminen sings Wittgenstein\".\n\nThe \"Tractatus\" is the English translation of:\n\nA notable German Edition of the works of Wittgenstein is:\n\nBoth English translations of the \"Tractatus\" include an introduction by Bertrand Russell. Wittgenstein revised the Ogden translation.\n\n\nA manuscript version of the \"Tractatus\", dubbed and published as the \"Prototractatus\", was discovered in 1965 by Georg Henrik von Wright.\n\n\nOnline English versions\n\n\nOnline German versions\n\nVisualization graphs\n"}
{"id": "2473609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2473609", "title": "Vasily Bartold", "text": "Vasily Bartold\n\nVasily Vladimirovich Bartold (, , , also known as Wilhelm Barthold; – 19 August 1930) was a Russian Empire and Soviet historian of German descent who specialized in the history of Islam and the Turkic peoples (Turkology).\n\nBartold's lectures at the University of Saint Petersburg were annually interrupted by extended field trips to Muslim countries. In the two volumes of his dissertation (\"Turkestan down to the Mongol Invasion\", 1898-1900), he pointed out the many benefits the Muslim world derived from Mongol rule after the initial conquests. Bartold was the first to publish obscure information from the early Arab historians on Kievan Rus'. He also edited several scholarly journals of Muslim studies, and contributed extensively to the first edition of the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam\". In 1913, he was elected to the Russian Academy of Sciences. In February 1917 he was appointed to the Commission for the Study of the Tribal Composition of the Population of the Borderlands of Russia.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution, Bartold was appointed director of the Peter the Great Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography, a post he held from 1918 to 1921. He wrote three authoritative monographs on the history of Islam, namely \"Islam\" (1918), \"Muslim Culture\" (1918) and \"The Muslim World\" (1922). He also contributed to the development of Cyrillic writing for the Muslim countries of Central Asia.\n\nMost of his writings were translated in English, Arabic, and Persian. Bartold's collected works were reprinted in 9 volumes between 1963 and 1977, and whilst Soviet editors added footnotes deploring his 'bourgeois' attitudes, his prestige was such that the text was left uncensored, despite not conforming to a Marxist interpretation of history. Some of his works have been reprinted more recently in Moscow.\n\n"}
{"id": "3326376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3326376", "title": "W. J. Rorabaugh", "text": "W. J. Rorabaugh\n\nW.J. (William Joseph) Rorabaugh (born 1945) is an American historian. He is a professor of history at the University of Washington and from 2003-08 was the managing editor of \"Pacific Northwest Quarterly\".\n\nHe graduated from Stanford University and the University of California, Berkeley with a PhD in 1976. He is a book reviewer and the author of several works of American history. In July 2006 he became president of the Alcohol and Drugs History Society.\n\nHe has studied the history of beer in America. Rorabaugh's 1979 book \"The Alcoholic Republic: An American Tradition\" demonstrated the exceedingly high rate of alcohol consumption in the United States in the early nineteenth century. At the time, Rorabaugh argued, \"Americans preferred cider and whiskey because those drinks contained more alcohol than beer, which was too weak for American taste... One can only conclude that at the root of the alcoholic republic was the fact that Americans chose the most highly alcoholic beverages that they could obtain easily and cheaply.\"\n\nIn his more recent work on the decade of the 1960s in American history, Rorabaugh has suggested a redefinition of \"the sixties.\" In his 2002 book \"Kennedy and the Promise of the Sixties\", he wrote: \"It is possible to argue that the sixties did not begin until 1965, when African Americans rioted in Watts and when large numbers of American combat troops were sent to Vietnam, and did not end until 1974 when Richard Nixon resigned, or even 1975, when the North Vietnamese marched into Saigon.\" Rorabaugh identified the earlier half of the decade as distinct both from the 1950s and \"the sixties\": \"The early sixties, then, is important because it was an in-between time, a short space lodged between a more conservative, cautious, and complacent era that preceded it and a more frenzied, often raucous, and even violent era that followed.\"\n\n\n"}
