{"id": "3136934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3136934", "title": "A51 road", "text": "A51 road\n\nThe A51 is a road in England running from Chester to Kingsbury, Warwickshire.\n\nIt takes on the following route:\n\nThe A51 is used by some long-distance traffic as an alternative to the M6 motorway, which is prone to congestion through Birmingham. The nearby M6 Toll motorway now serves a similar function.\n"}
{"id": "52803166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52803166", "title": "Abell 3411", "text": "Abell 3411\n\nAbell 3411 is a galaxy cluster located about two billion light years from Earth and weighs about a million billion times the mass of the Sun.\n\n"}
{"id": "2218753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2218753", "title": "Adatom", "text": "Adatom\n\nAn adatom is an atom that lies on a crystal surface, and can be thought of as the opposite of a surface vacancy. This term is used in surface chemistry and epitaxy, when describing single atoms lying on surfaces and surface roughness. The word is a portmanteau of \"adsorbed atom\". A single atom, a cluster of atoms, or a molecule or cluster of molecules may all be referred to by the general term \"adparticle\". This is often a thermodynamically unfavorable state. However, cases such as graphene may provide counter-examples.\n\nIn 2012, scientists at the University of New South Wales were able to use phosphine to precisely, deterministically eject a single silicon atom onto a surface of epitaxial silicon. This resulting adatom created what is described as a single-atom transistor. Thus, inasmuch as chemical empirical formulas pinpoint the locations of branching ions that are attached to a particular molecule, the dopant of silicon based transistors and other such electronic components will have the location identified of each dopant atom or molecule, along with the associated characteristic of the device based on the named locations. Thus, the mapping of the dopant substances will give exact characteristics of any given semiconductor device, once all is known.\n"}
{"id": "12630111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12630111", "title": "Affect control theory", "text": "Affect control theory\n\nIn control theory, affect control theory proposes that individuals maintain affective meanings through their actions and interpretations of events. The activity of social institutions occurs through maintenance of culturally based affective meanings.\n\nBesides a denotative meaning, every concept has an affective meaning, or connotation, that varies along three dimensions: evaluation – goodness versus badness, potency – powerfulness versus powerlessness, and activity – liveliness versus torpidity. Affective meanings can be measured with semantic differentials yielding a three-number profile indicating how the concept is positioned on evaluation, potency, and activity (EPA). Osgood demonstrated that an elementary concept conveyed by a word or idiom has a normative affective meaning within a particular culture.\n\nA stable affective meaning derived either from personal experience or from cultural inculcation is called a sentiment, or fundamental affective meaning, in affect control theory. Affect control theory has inspired assembly of dictionaries of EPA sentiments for thousands of concepts involved in social life – identities, behaviors, settings, personal attributes, and emotions. Sentiment dictionaries have been constructed with ratings of respondents from the US, Canada, Northern Ireland, Germany, Japan, and China (both the People's Republic and Taiwan).\n\nEach concept that is in play in a situation has a transient affective meaning in addition to an associated sentiment. The transient corresponds to an impression created by recent events.\n\nEvents modify impressions on all three EPA dimensions in complex ways that are described with non-linear equations obtained through empirical studies. \n\nHere are two examples of impression-formation processes. \n\nA social action creates impressions of the actor, the object person, the behavior, and the setting.\n\nDeflections are the distances in the EPA space between transient and fundamental affective meanings. For example, a mother complimented by a stranger feels that the unknown individual is much nicer than a stranger is supposed to be, and a bit too potent and active as well – thus there is a moderate distance between the impression created and the mother's sentiment about strangers. High deflections in a situation produce an aura of unlikeliness or uncanniness. It is theorized that high deflections maintained over time generate psychological stress.\n\nThe basic cybernetic idea of affect control theory can be stated in terms of deflections. An individual selects a behavior that produces the minimum deflections for concepts involved in the action. Minimization of deflections is described by equations derived with calculus from empirical impression-formation equations.\n\nOn entering a scene an individual defines the situation by assigning identities to each participant, frequently in accord with an encompassing social institution. While defining the situation, the individual tries to maintain the affective meaning of self through adoption of an identity whose sentiment serves as a surrogate for the individual's self-sentiment. The identities assembled in the definition of the situation determine the sentiments that the individual tries to maintain behaviorally.\n\nConfirming sentiments associated with institutional identities – like doctor–patient, lawyer–client, or professor–student – creates institutionally relevant role behavior.\n\nConfirming sentiments associated with negatively evaluated identities – like bully, glutton, loafer, or scatterbrain – generates deviant behavior.\nAffect control theory's sentiment databases and mathematical model are combined in a computer simulation program for analyzing social interaction in various cultures.\n\nAccording to affect control theory, an event generates emotions for the individuals involved in the event by changing impressions of the individuals. The emotion is a function of the impression created of the individual and of the difference between that impression and the sentiment attached to the individual's identity Thus, for example, an event that creates a negative impression of an individual generates unpleasant emotion for that person, and the unpleasantness is worse if the individual believes she has a highly valued identity. Similarly, an event creating a positive impression generates a pleasant emotion, all the more pleasant if the individual believes he has a disvalued identity in the situation.\n\nNon-linear equations describing how transients and fundamentals combine to produce emotions have been derived in empirical studies Affect control theory's computer simulation program uses these equations to predict emotions that arise in social interaction, and displays the predictions via facial expressions that are computer drawn, as well as in terms of emotion words.\n\nBased on cybernetic studies by Pavloski and Goldstein, that utilise perceptual control theory, Heise hypothesizes that emotion is distinct from stress. For example, a parent enjoying intensely pleasant emotions while interacting with an offspring suffers no stress. A homeowner attending to a sponging house guest may feel no emotion and yet be experiencing substantial stress.\n\nOthers' behaviors are interpreted so as to minimize the deflections they cause. For example, a man turning away from another and exiting through a doorway could be engaged in several different actions, like departing from, deserting, or escaping from the other. Observers choose among the alternatives so as to minimize deflections associated with their definitions of the situation. Observers who assigned different identities to the observed individuals could have different interpretations of the behavior.\n\nRe-definition of the situation may follow an event that causes large deflections which cannot be resolved by reinterpreting the behavior. In this case, observers assign new identities that are confirmed by the behavior. For example, seeing a father slap a son, one might re-define the father as an abusive parent, or perhaps as a strict disciplinarian; or one might re-define the son as an arrogant brat. Affect control theory's computer program predicts the plausible re-identifications, thereby providing a formal model for labeling theory.\n\nThe sentiment associated with an identity can change to befit the kinds of events in which that identity is involved, when situations keep arising where the identity is deflected in the same way, especially when identities are informal and non-institutionalized.\n\nAffect control theory has been used in research on emotions, gender, social structure, politics, deviance and law, the arts, and business. A bibliography of research studies in these areas is provided by David R. Heise and at the research program's website.\n\nA probabilistic and decision theoretic extension of affect control theory generalizes the original theory in order to allow for uncertainty about identities, changing identities, and explicit non-affective goals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "656373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=656373", "title": "Albert Sacco", "text": "Albert Sacco\n\nAlbert Sacco Jr. (born May 3, 1949) is an American chemical engineer who flew as a Payload Specialist on the Space Shuttle Columbia on shuttle mission STS-73 in 1995.\n\nBorn in Boston, Massachusetts, Sacco completed a B.S. degree in chemical engineering from Northeastern University in Boston in 1973, and then a Ph.D. degree in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1977. He then joined the faculty of the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, becoming a full professor and rising to department head in 1989. \n\nSacco accepted the position of Dean of the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering at Texas Tech University, effective January 1, 2011.\n\nSacco flew as a payload specialist on STS-73, which launched on October 20, 1995, and landed at the Kennedy Space Center on November 5, 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "31230857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31230857", "title": "Amiga music software", "text": "Amiga music software\n\nThis article deals with music software created for the Amiga line of computers and covers the AmigaOS operating system and its derivates AROS and MorphOS and is a split of main article Amiga software.\nSee also related articles Amiga productivity software, Amiga programming languages, Amiga Internet and communications software and Amiga support and maintenance software for other information regarding software that run on Amiga.\n\nInstant Music, DMCS (DeLuxe Music) 1 and 2, Music-X, TigerCub, Dr. T's KCS, Dr. T's Midi Recording Studio, Bars and Pipes (from Blue Ribbon Soundworks, a firm which was bought from Microsoft and it is now part of its group. Bars and Pipes internal structure then inspired to create audio streaming data passing of DirectX libraries), AEGIS Audio Master, Pro Sound Designer, AEGIS Sonix, Audio Sculpture, Audition 4 from SunRize Industries, SuperJAM!, HD-Rec, Audio Evolution, RockBEAT drum machine and various MIDI sequencing programs by Gajits Music Software.\n\nTogether with the well known Dr. T's Midi Recording Studio, Pro Sound Designer, Sonix, SoundFX, Audition 4, HD-Rec, and Audio Evolution, there were also lots of Amiga software to pilot digitzers such as GVP DSS8 Plus 8bit audio sampler/digitizer for Amiga, Sunrize AD512 and AD516 professional 12 and 16-bit DSP sound cards for the Amiga that included Studio-16 as standard software, Soundstage professional 20-bit DSP expansion sound card for the Amiga, Aura 12-bit sound sampler which is connected to the PCMCIA port of Amiga 600 and Amiga 1200 models, and the Concierto 16-bit sound card optional module to be added to the Picasso IV graphic card, etcetera.\n\nSynthia, FMSynth by Christian Stiens (inspired by Yamaha's FM-operating DX Series), Assampler, SoundFX (a.k.a. SFX), WaveTracer and Gajits' CM-Panion and 4D Companion patch editors.\n\nStarting from 1987 with the release of Soundtracker, trackers became a new type of music programs which spawned the mod (module) audio file standard. The Mod audio standard is considered the audio format that started it all in the world of computer music. After Soundtracker many clones (which often were reverse engineered and improved) appeared, including Noisetracker, Startrekker, Protracker. Also many deratives appeared, amongst which OctaMED and Oktalyzer.\n\nIn the period from 1985 to 1995 when Amiga audio (which was standard in Amiga computers) was of greater quality than other standard home computers, PC compatible systems began to be equipped with 8-bit audio cards inserted into 16 bit ISA bus slots. Soundtracker Module files were used on PC computers and were considered the only serious 8bit audio standard for creating music. The worldwide usage of these programs led to the creation of the so-called MOD-scene which was considered part of the demoscene. Eventually the PC world evolved to 16-bit audio cards, and Mod files were slowly abandoned. Various Amiga and PC games (such as Worms) supported Mod as their internal standard for generating music and audio effects.\n\nSome trackers can use both sampled sounds and can synthesize sounds. AHX and Hively Tracker are special trackers in that they can't use samples, but can synthesize the sound created by Commodore 64 computers.\n\nSome modern Amiga trackers are DigiBooster Pro and Hively Tracker.\n\nDevelopment of popular Amiga tracker OctaMED SoundStudio was handed over to a third party several times but the first two parties failed to produce useful results. A third attempt at creating an update will be undertaken by the current developer of Bars 'n Pipes.\n\nInitially trackers (and the mod format) were limited to 4 channel, 8-bit audio (due to restrictions of the built-in soundchip) and 15 (and later 31) sampled instruments. By using software mixing some trackers achieved 6, 7 or 8 channel sound at the cost of CPU time and audio quality.\nModern trackers can handle 128+ channel, 16-bit audio quality and can often handle up to 256 instruments. Some even support software synthesizer plugins as instruments.\n\nThe original Amiga was launched with speech synthesis software, developed by Softvoice, Inc. (see: Text2Speech System). This could be broken into three main components: \"narrator.device\", which could enunciate phonemes expressed as ARPABET, \"translator.library\" which could translate English text to American English phonemes, and the \"SPEAK:\" handler, which any application including the command-line could redirect output to, to have it spoken. Reading \"SPEAK:\" as it is producing speech will return two numbers which are the size ratio of the width and height of a mouth producing the phoneme being spoken.\n\nIn the original 1.x releases, a \"Say\" program demo was included with AmigaBASIC programming examples. From the 2.05 release on, \"narrator.device\" and \"translator.library\" were no longer present in the operating system but could still be used if copied over from older disks.\n\nThe speak handler was not just a curiosity, or a gorgeous demonstration of capabilities of Amiga. In fact, the word processor ProWrite since its version 3.2 was able to read an entire document using the speech synthesizer for the benefit of blind users.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10306637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10306637", "title": "Andrei Sakharov Prize (APS)", "text": "Andrei Sakharov Prize (APS)\n\nThe Andrei Sakharov Prize is a prize that is to be awarded every second year by the American Physical Society since 2006. The recipients are chosen for \"outstanding leadership and/or achievements of scientists in upholding human rights\". The prize is named after Andrei Sakharov (1921-1989), Soviet nuclear physicist, dissident and human rights activist; as of 2007 it is valued at $10,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4677415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4677415", "title": "Androgynous Peripheral Attach System", "text": "Androgynous Peripheral Attach System\n\nThe terms Androgynous Peripheral Attach System (APAS), Androgynous Peripheral Assembly System (APAS) and Androgynous Peripheral Docking System (APDS), are used interchangeably to describe a family of spacecraft docking mechanisms, and are also sometimes used as a generic name for any docking system in that family. A system similar to APAS-89/95 is used by the Chinese Shenzhou spacecraft.\n\nThe name of the system is Russian in origin, and is an acronym, АПАС, in the Cyrillic alphabet, from the Russian, \"Андрогинно-периферийный агрегат стыковки\". The English acronym was designed to be just the same letters but in the Latin alphabet, for which the first two words are direct counterparts of those in the original. The third word in Russian comes from the German \"Aggregat\", meaning \"complicated mechanism\", and the last means \"docking\". The last two words in the English name were picked to begin with the same equivalent letters as in the Russian name.\n\nThe idea behind the design is that unlike with the probe-and-drogue docking system, any APAS docking ring can mate with any other APAS docking ring; both sides are \"androgynous\". In each docking there is an active and a passive side, but both sides can fulfill either role. There are three basic variations of the APAS system.\n\nCo-developed by American and Soviet engineers through a series of in-person meetings, letters and teleconferences, APAS-75 was initially planned to be used on an American mission to a Salyut space station which instead became the Apollo–Soyuz Test Project (ASTP). There were differences between the American and Soviet version of the docking mechanism, but they were still mechanically compatible. Early on, the Americans called the device both the International Rendezvous and Docking Mission (IRDM) Docking Mechanism and the International Docking System. The device is called the Androgynous Peripheral Docking System (APDS) in the NASA press packet for ASTP.\n\nUnlike previous docking systems, either APAS-75 unit could assume the active or passive role as required. For docking, the spade-shaped guides of the extended active unit (right) and the retracted passive unit (left) interacted for gross alignment. The ring holding the guides shifted to align the active unit latches with the passive unit catches. After these caught, shock absorbers dissipated residual impact energy in the American unit; mechanical attenuators served the same function on the Soviet side. The active unit then retracted to bring the docking collars together. Guides and sockets in the docking collars completed alignment. Four spring push rods drove the spacecraft apart at undocking.\n\nThe Americans selected North American Rockwell to construct seven docking mechanisms (two flight, four test, and one spare).\n\nRussia built five Soyuz spacecraft that used APAS-75. The first three flew as test systems (Cosmos 638, Cosmos 672 and Soyuz 16). One was used for the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, Soyuz 19 the only Soyuz to actually use the docking system, and the last one flew as Soyuz 22. On the American side the ASTP Docking Module carried one APAS-75 docking collar and one Apollo docking collar.\n\nIn April 1970 NASA Administrator Thomas O. Paine suggested, in an informal meeting with Russian academician Anatoli Blagonravov in New York, that the two nations cooperate on astronaut safety, including compatible docking equipment on space stations and spacecraft to permit rescue operations in space emergencies.\n\nEngineer Caldwell Johnson proposed a ring and cone system during a meeting in Moscow during October 1970. Boris N. Petrov rejected the simple adaptation of Apollo and Soyuz as a \"space stunt\" and had proposed developing a universal docking mechanism, Johnson suggested that the Manned Spacecraft Center (MSC) draw up a \"design specifically adequate to requirements of a particular CSM/Salyut mission, the design being representative only of the fundamental form and function of docking gear satisfying the requirements for compatible docking system for future spacecraft.\"\n\nDuring a meeting in Houston during June 1971, Soviet docking specialist Valentin N. Bobkov indicated that the Soviets also favored some version of the double ring and cone. Bobkov illustrated through sketches that the overall diameter of the docking system could not exceed 1.3 meters, because any larger system would require a change in the launch shroud. When Johnson raised the question of altering the shroud, the Soviets stressed the major impact that such a modification would have. In addition to having to design a new shroud, they would have to test out the launch aerodynamics of the altered hardware. The Americans had hoped to argue for a larger tunnel, but such a change appeared to be too great for their counterparts.\nAfter the June meetings, Johnson had put Bill Creasy and his mechanical designers to work on the preliminary design of a docking mechanism. By the time the NASA delegation left for Moscow, Creasy's crew had designed and built a 1-meter double ring and cone docking system that had four guide fingers and attenuators on both rings, so either half could be active or passive during docking. The Structures and Mechanics Laboratory at MSC made 16-millimeter movies demonstrating this system in action, which Johnson took to Moscow in November, along with a booklet describing the system and a model of the capture latches. To Johnson's surprise, Vladimir Syromyatnikov had been working on a variation of NASA's ring and cone concept since the previous October. Instead of the four guide fingers in the American proposal, Syromyatnikov suggested three, and in lieu of hydraulic shock-absorbers, he proposed electromechanical attenuators. In essence, the Soviets had accepted the idea of using a set of intermeshing fingers to guide the two halves of the docking gear from the point of initial contact to capture. The concept of using shock absorbing attenuators on the active spacecraft's capture ring to buffer the impact of two spacecraft coming together was also acceptable. Both groups of engineers planned to retract the active half of the docking gear using an electrically powered winch to reel in a cable. Once retracted, structural or body latches would be engaged to lock the two ships together. Three basic issues had to be resolved — the number of guides, the type of attenuators, and the type of structural latches — before the design of a universal system could proceed.\n\nJohnson, Creasy, and the other engineers in the Spacecraft Design Division had wanted to use four guides because they believed that it provided the best geometry when using hydraulic attenuators. As Bill Creasy subsequently explained it, the most probable failure situation using hydraulic attenuators would be a leak that would cause one shock absorber to collapse on impact. A study of various combinations had led the MSC specialists to conclude that four guides and eight shock absorbers was the optimum design. Creasy pointed out too that the most likely trouble with an electromechanical system would be a freeze-up or binding of one of the pairs of attenuators. Thus, the Soviets had sought to minimize the number of pairs in their system for the same reason that the Americans had preferred a larger number to limit the probability of something going wrong.\n\nSince the United States had no significant engineering or hardware equity in its proposed design, and since the USSR had considerable equity in its proposed design, the Soviet design was selected as a baseline for the next phase of study.\n\nBy the end of the November–December meeting, the two teams had signed a set of minutes outlining the basic concept for a universal androgynous docking system. The formal statement read, \"The design concept includes a ring equipped with guides and capture latches that were located on movable rods which serve as attenuators and retracting actuators, and a docking ring on which are located peripheral mating capture latches with a docking seal.\" Basic information on shapes and dimensions of the guides were also included in the minutes. They were to be solid and not rodlike; as first proposed by the Soviets, and three in number. As long as the requirement for absorbing docking forces was met, each side was free to execute the actual attenuator design as it best saw fit. The Soviets planned to use an electromechanical approach designed for the Soyuz docking probe, and the Americans proposed to stick with hydraulic shock absorbers similar to those used on the Apollo probe. This proposal also called for developing docking gear that could be used in either an active or passive mode; when one ship's system was active, the other would be passive.\n\nLooking into the detailed design of the mechanism, the two sides had further agreed that the capture latches would follow the design developed at MSC and the structural latches and ring would follow the Soviet pattern. These paired sets of hooks had been successfully used on both Soyuz and Salyut. In addition, the group concurred on details regarding the alignment pins, spring thrusters (to assist in the separation of the spacecraft at undocking), and electrical connector locations. To evaluate the docking system concept and to ensure the establishment of compatibility at an early point in the development, the men planned to build a two-fifths-scale test model, the exact details of which would be decided at the next joint meeting.\n\nUpon his return to Houston, Caldwell Johnson prepared a memorandum to document some of the informal understandings reached in Moscow. He indicated that this reflected \"upon the manner in which the two countries will conduct and coordinate the next phase of the engineering studies of those systems ... The understandings ... were reached more often than not outside of formal meetings, and so are not likely otherwise to be reported.\" For example, in the area of hatch diameter, he noted that \"it became apparent from the beginning ... that a hatch diameter greater than about 800 mm could not be incorporated into the Salyut spacecraft without great difficulty,\" but MSC had \"long since reconciled itself\" to a test hatch diameter of less than 1 meter. Johnson went on to comment that \"the capture ring assembly had variously been called ring and cone, double ring and cone, and ring and fingers. It was agreed henceforth to call the capture ring 'ring' and the fingers 'guides.'\"\n\nBill Creasy and several of his colleagues worked with Yevgeniy Gennadiyevich Bobrov at the drafting table to lay out these first Soviet-American engineering drawings. Larry Ratcliff drew the capture ring and guides on drafting paper, and Robert McElya supplied the details of the structural interface ring, while Bobrov prepared a similar drawing for the structural latches. T.O. Ross then took these drawings and conducted a dimensional analysis to be sure that all items were compatible. Agreement on technical specifications for the docking system cleared the way for NASA to begin discussions with Rockwell about building the docking system.\n\nIn April 1972, the Soviets informed NASA that they had chosen to use a Soyuz spacecraft in place of a Saylut space station for cost and technical reasons.\n\nFinal official approval of a joint docking mission came in Moscow on 24 May 1972. U.S. President Nixon and U.S.S.R. Premier Aleksey N. Kosygin signed the Agreement Concerning Cooperation in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space for Peaceful Purposes, including development of compatible spacecraft docking systems to improve safety of manned space flight and to make joint scientific experiments possible. The first flight to test the systems was to be in 1975, with modified Apollo and Soyuz spacecraft. Beyond this mission, future manned spacecraft of the two nations were hoped to be able to dock with each other.\nIn July 1972, the group concentrated on spelling out more fully specifications for the docking system. Some refinements were made in the guides and other parts of the mechanism; as with the other groups, a schedule for the upcoming months was written, indicating documents to be prepared and tests to be conducted. After the team had a thorough look at the American two-fifths-scale docking system, which helped the designers discuss the operation of the mechanism and decide on refinements, they scheduled joint model tests for December. Then the engineers would be able to see just how the interfacing elements of one country's system mated with those of the other. The Soviets said they would draft the \"Test Plan for Scale Models of Apollo/Soyuz Docking System\" (IED 50003), while the Americans drew up the dimensions of the model and the test fixtures.\n\nUnder the direction of Syromyatnikov, the Soviet team had readied their documentation in both English and Russian and had prepared their two-fifths-scale model of the docking system for the joint meeting. Some of the Americans observed that while the U.S.S.R. mechanism was more complex mechanically than the American one, it was suitable for the mission and \"sophisticated\" in its execution. The two sides reviewed and signed the two-fifths-model test plan and scheduled the test for December in Moscow.\n\nThe Preliminary Systems Review (PSR) was planned to be a \"formal configuration review ... initiated near the end of the conceptual phase, but prior to the start of detail design\" work on the docking mechanism. As part of their presentation to the Preliminary Systems Review Board (the Board being the Technical Directors), Don Wade and Syromyatnikov included all the test data, specifications, and drawings for the docking system, as well as a design evaluation for the mechanism. After hearing their report, Lunney and Bushuyev felt three problem areas needed further study. First, the requirement for a spring thruster designed to help separate the two spacecraft had caught their attention, since the failure of this thruster to compress properly could prevent completion of docking. Second, Lunney and Bushuyev emphasized the importance of an indicator that would verify that the structural latches were properly in place. The American system provided information on the functioning of each latch but did not indicate that the interface seals were compressed, while the Soviet system gave data on compression of the seals but none for the latches. To assure the structural integrity of the transfer tunnel, it was important to know that all eight latches were closed. The third problem area was whether it was possible for the structural latches be inadvertently released. Bushuyev and Lunney called for a thorough re-evaluation of all these issues and advised the group to present their specific recommendations to them in December and January.\n\nThe group tests of the two-fifths-scale model and the second part of the Preliminary Systems Review for the docking system was the last joint activity scheduled for 1972. The Americans arrived in Moscow on December 6 and worked through December 15. Testing the scale models occurred at the Institute of Space Research in Moscow.\n\nTests of the full-scale Soviet and American docking systems began in Houston during October 1973.\n\nWhen the USSR started working on Mir they were also working on the Buran shuttle program. APAS-89 was envisioned to be the docking system for Buran with the Mir space station. The APAS-75 design was heavily modified. The outer diameter was reduced from 2030 mm to 1550 mm and the alignment petals were pointed inward instead of outward. This limited the internal passage diameter of the docking port to about 800 mm. The Buran shuttle was finally canceled in 1994 and never flew to the Mir space station, but Mir's Kristall module was outfitted with two APAS-89 docking mechanisms. The Mir Docking Module, basically a spacer module between Kristall and the Shuttle, also used APAS-89 on both sides.\n\nAPAS was selected for the Shuttle-Mir program and manufactured by Russian company RKK Energiya under a $18 million contract signed in June 1993. Rockwell International, prime contractor for the Shuttle, accepted delivery of hardware from Energiya in September 1994 and integrated it onto Space Shuttles' Orbiter Docking System, an add-on that was installed in the payload bay and was originally meant for use with Space Station Freedom.\n\nAlthough Energia's code for the Shuttle APAS is APAS-95, it has been described as being basically the same as APAS-89. It had a mass of 286 kg.\n\nAPAS-95 was selected to join the American and Russian modules on the International Space Station (ISS) and to allow the Space Shuttle, Soyuz, Progress and Automated Transfer Vehicle spacecraft to dock. The Shuttle's Orbiter Docking System remained unchanged from when it was used for the Shuttle–Mir Program in 1995. The active capture ring that extends outward from the spacecraft captured the passive mating ring on the space station's APAS-95 connection on the Pressurized Mating Adapter. The capture ring aligned them, pulled them together and deployed 12 structural hooks, latching the two systems with an airtight seal. The Pressurized Mating Adapters are permanently passive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55775547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55775547", "title": "Animal Sentience (journal)", "text": "Animal Sentience (journal)\n\nAnimal Sentience: An Interdisciplinary Journal on Animal Feeling is a multidisciplinary academic journal. Its subject matter, animal sentience, concerns what animals think and feel, and the journal also covers methods through which scientists and scholars can study this and make the information available to the general public. The journal is published by the Institute for Science and Policy of The Humane Society of the United States, and the editor-in-chief is Steven Harnad, founder of the journal \"Behavioral and Brain Sciences\".\n\n\"Animal Sentience\" launched in 2015. Its first issue appeared in 2016, and was in the news for an article asserting that fish feel pain.\n\nAll articles accepted for publication are open to Open Peer Commentary in which multiple researchers may submit mini-articles criticizing, clarifying, or elaborating on the article from the viewpoint of any research field relevant to its content. \n\nThe journal is an Open Access journal that charges no fees: neither publication fees to authors nor subscription, license or other access fees to users.\n\n"}
{"id": "47486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47486", "title": "Atoll", "text": "Atoll\n\nAn atoll (, , , , or ), sometimes called a coral atoll, is a ring-shaped coral reef including a coral rim that encircles a lagoon partially or completely. There may be coral islands or cays on the rim. The coral of the atoll often sits atop the rim of an extinct seamount or volcano which has eroded or subsided partially beneath the water. The lagoon forms over the volcanic crater or caldera while the higher rim remains above water(s) or at shallow depths that permit the coral to grow and form the reefs. For the atoll to persist, continued erosion or subsidence must be at a rate slow enough to permit reef growth upwards and outwards to replace the lost height.\n\nThe word \"atoll\" comes from the Dhivehi (an Indo-Aryan language spoken on the Maldive Islands) word \"atholhu\" (Dhivehi: , ), meaning an administrative subdivision. Its first recorded use in English was in 1625 as \"atollon\". Charles Darwin recognized its indigenous origin and coined, in his \"The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs\", the definition of atolls as \"circular groups of coral islets\" that is synonymous with \"lagoon-island\".\n\nMore modern definitions of \"atoll\" describe them as \"annular reefs enclosing a lagoon in which there are no promontories other than reefs and islets composed of reef detritus\" or \"in an exclusively morphological sense, [as] a ring-shaped ribbon reef enclosing a lagoon\".\n\nMost of the world's atolls are in the Pacific Ocean (with concentrations in the Tuamotu Islands, Caroline Islands, Marshall Islands, Coral Sea Islands, and the island groups of Kiribati, Tuvalu and Tokelau) and Indian Ocean (the Atolls of the Maldives, the Lakshadweep Islands, the Chagos Archipelago and the Outer Islands of the Seychelles). The Atlantic Ocean has no large groups of atolls, other than eight atolls east of Nicaragua that belong to the Colombian department of San Andres and Providencia in the Caribbean.\n\nReef-building corals will thrive only in warm tropical and subtropical waters of oceans and seas, and therefore atolls are only found in the tropics and subtropics. The northernmost atoll of the world is Kure Atoll at 28°24′ N, along with other atolls of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands. The southernmost atolls of the world are Elizabeth Reef at 29°58′ S, and nearby Middleton Reef at 29°29′ S, in the Tasman Sea, both of which are part of the Coral Sea Islands Territory. The next southerly atoll is Ducie Island in the Pitcairn Islands Group, at 24°40′ S. Bermuda is sometimes claimed as the \"northernmost atoll\" at a latitude of 32°24′ N. At this latitude coral reefs would not develop without the warming waters of the Gulf Stream. However, Bermuda is termed a \"pseudo-atoll\" because its general form, while resembling that of an atoll, has a very different mode of formation. While there is no atoll directly on the equator, the closest atoll to the Equator is Aranuka of Kiribati, with its southern tip just 12 km north of the equator.\n\nIn most cases, the land area of an atoll is very small in comparison to the total area. Atoll islands are low lying, with their elevations less than 5 meters (9). Measured by total area, Lifou (1146 km²) is the largest raised coral atoll of the world, followed by Rennell Island (660 km²). More sources however list as the largest atoll in the world in terms of land area Kiritimati, which is also a raised coral atoll (321.37 km² land area; according to other sources even 575 km²), 160 km² main lagoon, 168 km² other lagoons (according to other sources 319 km² total lagoon size). The remains of an ancient atoll as a hill in a limestone area is called a reef knoll. The second largest atoll by dry land area is Aldabra with 155 km². The largest atoll in terms of island numbers is Huvadhu Atoll in the south of the Maldives with 255 islands.\n\nIn 1842, Charles Darwin explained the creation of coral atolls in the southern Pacific Ocean based upon observations made during a five-year voyage aboard from 1831 to 1836. Accepted as basically correct, his explanation involved considering that several tropical island types—from high volcanic island, through barrier reef island, to atoll—represented a sequence of gradual subsidence of what started as an oceanic volcano. He reasoned that a fringing coral reef surrounding a volcanic island in the tropical sea will grow upwards as the island subsides (sinks), becoming an \"almost atoll\", or barrier reef island, as typified by an island such as Aitutaki in the Cook Islands, Bora Bora and others in the Society Islands. The fringing reef becomes a barrier reef for the reason that the outer part of the reef maintains itself near sea level through biotic growth, while the inner part of the reef falls behind, becoming a lagoon because conditions are less favorable for the coral and calcareous algae responsible for most reef growth. In time, subsidence carries the old volcano below the ocean surface and the barrier reef remains. At this point, the island has become an atoll.\n\nAtolls are the product of the growth of tropical marine organisms, and so these islands are only found in warm tropical waters. Volcanic islands located beyond the warm water temperature requirements of hermatypic (reef-building) organisms become seamounts as they subside and are eroded away at the surface. An island that is located where the ocean water temperatures are just sufficiently warm for upward reef growth to keep pace with the rate of subsidence is said to be at the Darwin Point. Islands in colder, more polar regions evolve towards seamounts or guyots; warmer, more equatorial islands evolve towards atolls, for example Kure Atoll.\n\nReginald Aldworth Daly offered a somewhat different explanation for atoll formation: islands worn away by erosion, by ocean waves and streams, during the last glacial stand of the sea of some below present sea level developed as coral islands (atolls), or barrier reefs on a platform surrounding a volcanic island not completely worn away, as sea level gradually rose from melting of the glaciers. Discovery of the great depth of the volcanic remnant beneath many atolls such as at Midway Atoll favors the Darwin explanation, although there can be little doubt that fluctuating sea level has had considerable influence on atolls and other reefs.\n\nCoral atolls are also an important place where dolomitization of calcite occurs. At certain depths water is undersaturated in calcium carbonate but saturated in dolomite. Convection created by tides and sea currents enhance this change. Hydrothermal currents created by volcanoes under the atoll may also play an important role.\n\nIn 1896, 1897 and 1898, the Royal Society of London carried out drilling on Funafuti atoll in Tuvalu for the purpose of investigating the formation of coral reefs to determine whether traces of shallow water organisms could be found at depth in the coral of Pacific atolls. This investigation followed the work on the structure and distribution of coral reefs conducted by Charles Darwin in the Pacific.\n\nThe first expedition in 1896 was led by Professor William Johnson Sollas of the University of Oxford. The geologists included Walter George Woolnough and Edgeworth David of the University of Sydney. Professor Edgeworth David led the expedition in 1897. The third expedition in 1898 was led by Alfred Edmund Finckh.\n\nOn January 6, 2009, U.S. President George W. Bush announced the creation of the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument, covering several islands and atolls under U.S. jurisdiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29510384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29510384", "title": "Austen Angell", "text": "Austen Angell\n\nCharles Austen Angell (born Canberra 1933) is an Australian chemist known for his prolific and highly cited research on the physics of glasses and glass-forming liquids.\n\nHis most cited contribution is probably the \"strong–fragile\" classification of viscous liquids. The representation of log viscosity vs reduced inverse temperature \"T\"/\"T\" is also known as the \"Angell plot\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1972568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972568", "title": "Bathyal zone", "text": "Bathyal zone\n\nThe bathyal zone or bathypelagic – from Greek βαθύς (bathýs), \"deep\" – (also known as midnight zone) is the part of the pelagic zone that extends from a depth of below the ocean surface. It lies between the mesopelagic above, and the abyssopelagic below. The average temperature hovers at about . Although larger by volume than the euphotic zone, the bathyal zone is less densely populated. Sunlight does not reach this zone, meaning primary production, if any, is almost nonexistent. There are no known plants because of the lack of sunlight necessary for photosynthesis. It is known as the midnight (also twilight or dark) zone because of this feature.\n\nBecause of lack of light some species do not have eyes. Those possessing eyes in this zone include the viperfish and the frill shark. Many forms of nekton live in the bathyal zone, such as squid, large whales, and octopuses. In the bathyal, some of the world's largest whales feed. Sponges, brachiopods, sea stars, and echinoids are also common in the bathyal zone. Animals in the bathyal zone are not threatened by predators that can see them, so they do not have powerful muscles. This zone is difficult for fish to live in since it is especially hard to find nutrients. They have become very energy efficient, and many have slow metabolic rates to conserve energy. The fish are characterised by weak muscles, soft skin and slimy bodies. The adaptations of some of the fish that live there include small eyes and transparent skin.\n\nExcept where the ocean is exceptionally deep, the bathyal zone extends to the benthic zone on the ocean bed of that part of the continental slope that lies between 1000 and 4000 meters deep.\nThe bathyal zone contains sharks, squid, octopuses, and many different species of fish. This includes deep-water anglerfish, gulper eel, amphipods and dragonfish.\n\n"}
{"id": "13259181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13259181", "title": "Bollard pull", "text": "Bollard pull\n\nBollard pull is a conventional measure of the pulling (or towing) power of a watercraft. It is defined as the force (in tons or kilonewtons (kN)) exerted by a vessel under full power, on a shore-mounted bollard through a tow-line, commonly measured in a practical test (but sometimes simulated) under test conditions that include calm water, no tide, level trim, and sufficient depth and side clearance for a free propeller stream. Like the horsepower or mileage rating of a car, it is a convenient but idealized number that must be adjusted for operating conditions that differ from the test. The bollard pull of a vessel may be reported as two numbers, the \"static\" or \"maximum\" bollard pull - the highest force measured - and the \"steady\" or \"continuous\" bollard pull, the average of measurements over an interval of, for example, 10 minutes. An equivalent measurement on land is known as drawbar pull, or tractive force, which is used to measure the total horizontal force generated by a locomotive, a piece of heavy machinery such as a tractor, or a truck, (specifically a ballast tractor), which is utilized to move a load.\n\nBollard pull is primarily (but not only) used for measuring the strength of tugboats, with the largest commercial harbour tugboats in the 2000-2010s having around of bollard pull, which is described as above \"normal\" tugboats.\nResistive force is roughly 1/2 water density times velocity square times area of ship wet surface.\nR = 1/2d v^2 A\n\nUnlike in ground vehicles, the statement of installed horsepower is not sufficient to understand how strong a tug is - this is because other factors, like transmission losses, propulsion type, and propulsion system efficiency have an influence as well.\n\nBollard pull values are stated in tons (written as TBP) or kiloNewtons (kN).\nEstimated horsepower is equal to total resistance times velocity divided by 550. in the english system units, HP = R*v/ 550\n\nValues for bollard pull can be determined in two ways.\n\nThis method is useful for one-off ship designs and smaller shipyards. It is limited in precision - a number of boundary conditions need to be observed to obtain reliable results. Summarizing the below requirements, practical bollard pull trials need to be conducted in a deep water seaport, ideally not at the mouth of a river, on a calm day with hardly any traffic.\n\nSee Figure 2 for an illustration of error influences in a practical bollard pull trial. Note the difference in elevation of the ends of the line (the port bollard is higher than the ship's towing hook). Furthermore, there is the partial short circuit in propeller discharge current, the uneven trim of the ship and the short length of the tow line. All of these factors contribute to measurement error.\n\nThis method eliminates much of the uncertainties of the practical trial. However, any numerical simulation also has an error margin. Furthermore, simulation tools and computer systems capable of determining bollard pull for a ship design are costly. Hence, this method makes sense for larger shipyards and for the design of a series of ships.\n\nBoth methods can be combined. Practical trials can be used to validate the result of numerical simulation.\n\nPractical bollard pull tests under simplified conditions are conducted for human powered vehicles. There, bollard pull is often a category in competitions and gives an indication of the power train efficiency. Although conditions for such measurements are inaccurate in absolute terms, they are the same for all competitors. Hence, they can still be valid for comparing several craft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36716", "title": "Buran programme", "text": "Buran programme\n\nThe Buran programme (, , \"Snowstorm\" or \"Blizzard\"), also known as the \"VKK Space Orbiter programme\" (\"VKK\" is for , \"Air Space Ship\"), was a Soviet and later Russian reusable spacecraft project that began in 1974 at the Central Aerohydrodynamic Institute in Moscow and was formally suspended in 1993. In addition to being the designation for the whole Soviet/Russian reusable spacecraft project, \"Buran\" was also the name given to Orbiter K1, which completed one unmanned spaceflight in 1988 and was the only Soviet reusable spacecraft to be launched into space. The \"Buran\"-class orbiters used the expendable Energia rocket as a launch vehicle. They are generally treated as a Soviet equivalent of the United States' Space Shuttle, but in the Buran project, only the airplane-shaped orbiter itself was theoretically reusable. While Orbiter K1 was recovered successfully after its first orbital flight in 1988, it was never reused.\n\nThe Buran programme was started by the Soviet Union as a response to the United States Space Shuttle program. The project was the largest and the most expensive in the history of Soviet space exploration. Development work included sending BOR-5 test vehicles on multiple sub-orbital test flights, and atmospheric flights of the OK-GLI aerodynamic prototype. Buran completed one unmanned orbital spaceflight in 1988 before its cancellation in 1993. Orbiter K1, which flew the test flight in 1988 was crushed in a hangar collapse on 12 May 2002 in Kazakhstan. The OK-GLI resides in Technikmuseum Speyer. Although the \"Buran\" class was similar in appearance to NASA's Space Shuttle orbiter, and could similarly operate as a re-entry spaceplane, its internal and functional design was distinct. For example, the main engines during launch were on the Energia rocket and were not taken into orbit by the spacecraft. Smaller rocket engines on the craft's body provided propulsion in orbit and de-orbital burns.\n\nThe Buran orbital vehicle programme was developed in response to the U.S. Space Shuttle programme, which in the 1980s raised considerable concerns among the Soviet military and especially Defense Minister Dmitriy Ustinov. An authoritative chronicler of the Soviet and later Russian space programmes, the academic Boris Chertok, recounts how the programme came into being.\nAccording to Chertok, after the U.S. developed its Space Shuttle programme, the Soviet military became suspicious that it could be used for military purposes, due to its enormous payload, several times that of previous U.S. launch vehicles. The Soviet government asked the TsNIIMash (ЦНИИМАШ, Central Institute of Machine-building, a major player in defense analysis) for an expert opinion. Institute director, Yuri Mozzhorin, recalls that for a long time the institute could not envisage a civilian payload large enough to require a vehicle of that capacity.\n\nOfficially, the Buran orbital vehicle was designed for the delivery to orbit and return to Earth of spacecraft, cosmonauts, and supplies. Both Chertok and Gleb Lozino-Lozinskiy (Chief Designer of RKK Energia) suggest that from the beginning, the programme was military in nature; however, the exact military capabilities, or intended capabilities, of the \"Buran\" programme remain classified. Commenting on the discontinuation of the programme in his interview to \"New Scientist\", Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kotov confirms their accounts:\n\nLike its American counterpart, the \"Buran\" orbital vehicle, when in transit from its landing sites back to the launch complex, was transported on the back of a large jet aeroplane — the Antonov An-225 Mriya transport aircraft, which was designed in part for this task and remains the largest aircraft in the world to fly multiple times. Before the \"Mriya\" was ready (after the \"Buran\" had flown), the Myasishchev VM-T \"Atlant\", a variant on the Soviet Myasishchev M-4 \"Molot\" (Hammer) bomber (NATO code: Bison), fulfilled the same role.\n\nThe Soviet reusable space-craft programme has its roots in the very beginning of the space age, the late 1950s. The idea of Soviet reusable space flight is very old, though it was neither continuous, nor consistently organized. Before Buran, no project of the programme reached production.\n\nThe idea saw its first iteration in the Burya high-altitude jet aircraft, which reached the prototype stage. Several test flights are known, before it was cancelled by order of the Central Committee. The Burya had the goal of delivering a nuclear payload, presumably to the United States, and then returning to base. The cancellation was based on a final decision to develop ICBMs. The next iteration of the idea was Zvezda from the early 1960s, which also reached a prototype stage. Decades later, another project with the same name was used as a service module for the International Space Station. After Zvezda, there was a hiatus in reusable projects until Buran.\n\nThe development of the Buran began in the early 1970s as a response to the U.S. Space Shuttle program. Soviet officials were concerned about a perceived military threat posed by the U.S. Space Shuttle. In their opinion, the Shuttle's 30-ton payload-to-orbit capacity and, more significantly, its 15-ton payload return capacity, were a clear indication that one of its main objectives would be to place massive experimental laser weapons into orbit that could destroy enemy missiles from a distance of several thousands of kilometers. Their reasoning was that such weapons could only be effectively tested in actual space conditions and that to cut their development time and save costs it would be necessary to regularly bring them back to Earth for modifications and fine-tuning. Soviet officials were also concerned that the U.S. Space Shuttle could make a sudden dive into the atmosphere to drop bombs on Moscow.\n\nSoviet engineers were initially reluctant to design a spacecraft that looked superficially identical to the Shuttle, but subsequent wind tunnel testing showed that NASA's design was already ideal. Even though the Molniya Scientific Production Association proposed its Spiral programme design (halted 13 years earlier), it was rejected as being altogether dissimilar from the American shuttle design. While NPO Molniya conducted development under the lead of Gleb Lozino-Lozinskiy, the Soviet Union's Military-Industrial Commission, or VPK, was tasked with collecting all data it could on the U.S. Space Shuttle. Under the auspices of the KGB, the VPK was able to amass documentation on the American shuttle's airframe designs, design analysis software, materials, flight computer systems and propulsion systems. The KGB targeted many university research project documents and databases, including Caltech, MIT, Princeton, Stanford and others. The thoroughness of the acquisition of data was made much easier as the U.S. shuttle development was unclassified.\n\nThe construction of the shuttles began in 1980, and by 1984 the first full-scale Buran was rolled out. The first suborbital test flight of a scale-model (BOR-5) took place as early as July 1983. As the project progressed, five additional scale-model flights were performed. A test vehicle was constructed with four jet engines mounted at the rear; this vehicle is usually referred to as OK-GLI, or as the \"Buran aerodynamic analogue\". The jets were used to take off from a normal landing strip, and once it reached a designated point, the engines were cut and OK-GLI glided back to land. This provided invaluable information about the handling characteristics of the Buran design, and significantly differed from the carrier plane/air drop method used by the United States and the test craft. Twenty-four test flights of OK-GLI were performed by the Gromov Flight Research Institute test pilots and researchers after which the shuttle was \"worn out\". The developers considered using a couple of Mil Mi-26 helicopters to \"bundle\" lift the Buran, but test flights with a mock-up showed how risky and impractical that was. The VM-T ferried components and the Antonov An-225 Mriya (the heaviest airplane ever) was designed and used to ferry the shuttle.\n\nThe flight and ground-testing software also required research. In 1983 the Buran developers estimated that the software development would require several thousand programmers if done with their existing methodology (in assembly language), and they appealed to Keldysh Institute of Applied Mathematics for assistance. It was decided to develop a new high-level \"problem-oriented\" programming language. Researchers at Keldysh developed two languages: PROL2 (used for real-time programming of onboard systems) and DIPOL (used for the ground-based test systems), as well as the development and debugging environment SAPO PROLOGUE. There was also an operating system known as Prolog Manager. Work on these languages continued beyond the end of the Buran project, with PROL2 being extended into SIPROL, and eventually all three languages developed into DRAKON which is still in use in the Russian space industry. A declassified May 1990 CIA report citing open-source intelligence material states that the software for the Buran spacecraft was written in \"the French-developed programming language known as Prolog\", possibly due to confusion with the name PROLOGUE.\n\nUntil the end of the Soviet Union in 1991, seven cosmonauts were allocated to the Buran programme and trained on the OK-GLI (\"Buran aerodynamic analogue\") test vehicle. All had experience as test pilots. They were: Ivan Ivanovich Bachurin, Alexei Sergeyevich Borodai, Anatoli Semyonovich Levchenko, Aleksandr Vladimirovich Shchukin, Rimantas Antanas Stankevičius, Igor Petrovich Volk and Viktor Vasiliyevich Zabolotsky.\n\nA rule, set in place for cosmonauts because of the failed Soyuz 25 of 1977, insisted that all Soviet space missions contain at least one crew member who has been to space before. In 1982, it was decided that all Buran commanders and their back-ups would occupy the third seat on a Soyuz mission, prior to their Buran spaceflight. Several people had been selected to potentially be in the first Buran crew. By 1985, it was decided that at least one of the two crew members would be a test pilot trained at the Gromov Flight Research Institute (known as \"LII\"), and potential crew lists were drawn up. Only two potential Buran crew members reached space: Igor Volk, who flew in Soyuz T-12 to the space station Salyut 7, and Anatoli Levchenko who visited Mir, launching with Soyuz TM-4 and landing with Soyuz TM-3. Both of these spaceflights lasted about a week.\n\nLevchenko died of a brain tumour the year after his orbital flight, Bachurin left the cosmonaut corps because of medical reasons, Shchukin was assigned to the back-up crew of Soyuz TM-4 and later died in a plane crash, Stankevičius was also killed in a plane crash, while Borodai and Zabolotsky remained unassigned to a Soyuz flight until the Buran programme ended.\n\nIgor Volk was planned to be the commander of the first manned Buran flight. There were two purposes of the Soyuz T-12 mission, one of which was to give Volk spaceflight experience. The other purpose, seen as the more important factor, was to beat the United States and have the first spacewalk by a woman. At the time of the Soyuz T-12 mission the Buran programme was still a state secret. The appearance of Volk as a crew member caused some, including the British Interplanetary Society magazine \"Spaceflight\", to ask why a test pilot was occupying a Soyuz seat usually reserved for researchers or foreign cosmonauts.\n\nAnatoli Levchenko was planned to be the back-up commander of the first manned Buran flight, and in March 1987 he began extensive training for his Soyuz spaceflight. In December 1987, he occupied the third seat aboard Soyuz TM-4 to Mir, and returned to Earth about a week later on Soyuz TM-3. His mission is sometimes called \"Mir LII-1\", after the Gromov Flight Research Institute shorthand. When Levchenko died the following year, it left the back-up crew of the first Buran mission again without spaceflight experience. A Soyuz spaceflight for another potential back-up commander was sought by the Gromov Flight Research Institute, but never occurred.\n\nMaintenance, launches and landings of the Buran-class orbiters were to take place at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in the Kazakh S.S.R. Several facilities at Baikonur were adapted or newly built for these purposes:\n\n\nFollowing a series of atmospheric test flights using the jet-powered OK-GLI prototype, the first operational spacecraft (Orbiter K1) flew one test mission on 15 November 1988 at 03:00:02 UTC. The spacecraft was launched unmanned from and landed at Baikonur Cosmodrome in the Kazakh S.S.R. and flew two orbits, travelling in 3 hours and 25 minutes (0.14 flight days). \"Buran\" never flew again; the programme was cancelled shortly after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. In 2002, the collapse of the hangar in which it was stored destroyed the Buran orbiter.\n\nAn aerodynamic testbed, OK-GLI, was constructed in 1984 to test the in-flight properties of the Buran design. Unlike the American prototype , OK-GLI had four AL-31 turbofan engines fitted, meaning it was able to fly under its own power.\n\nThe only orbital launch of the Orbiter K1 \"Buran\" (also known as \"\"OK-1K1\" or \"Shuttle 1.01\") was at 3:00 UTC on 15 November 1988 from pad 110/37 in Baikonur. The unmanned craft was lifted into orbit by the specially designed Energia booster rocket. The life support system was not installed and no software was installed on the CRT displays. The shuttle orbited the Earth twice in 206 minutes of flight. On its return, it performed an automated landing on the shuttle runway at Baikonur Cosmodrome.\n\nThe planned flights for the shuttles in 1989, before the downsizing of the project and eventual cancellation, were:\n\nThe planned unmanned second flight of \"Ptichka\" was changed in 1991 to the following:\n\nAfter the first flight of a Buran shuttle, the project was suspended due to lack of funds and the political situation in the Soviet Union. The two subsequent orbiters, which were due in 1990 (informally \"Ptichka\") and 1992 (informally \"Baikal\") were never completed. The project was officially terminated on 30 June 1993, by President Boris Yeltsin. At the time of its cancellation, 20 billion rubles (roughly US$71,534,000) had been spent on the Buran programme.\n\nThe programme was designed to boost national pride, carry out research, and meet technological objectives similar to those of the U.S. Space Shuttle programme, including resupply of the Mir space station, which was launched in 1986 and remained in service until 2001. When Mir was finally visited by a space shuttle, the visitor was a U.S. Shuttle, not Buran.\n\nThe Buran SO, a docking module that was to be used for rendezvous with the Mir space station, was refitted for use with the U.S. Space Shuttles during the Shuttle–Mir missions.\n\nOn 12 May 2002, a hangar roof at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan collapsed because of a structural failure due to poor maintenance. The collapse killed 8 workers and destroyed one of the Buran craft (Orbiter K1), as well as a mock-up of an Energia booster rocket. It was not clear to outsiders at the time which Buran programme craft was destroyed, and the BBC reported that it was just \"a model\" of the orbiter. It occurred at the \"MIK RN/MIK 112\" building at Site 112 of the Baikonur Cosmodrome, 14 years after the first and only Buran flight. Work on the roof had begun for a maintenance project, whose equipment is thought to have contributed to the collapse. Also, before the day of collapse, there had been several days of heavy rain.\n\nMost of the geo-location below show the shuttle bodies on the ground; in some cases Google Earth's History facility is required to see the shuttle within the dates specified.\n\nOver time, several scientists looked into trying to revive the \"Buran\" programme, especially after the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster.\n\nThe 2003 grounding of the U.S. Space Shuttles caused many to wonder whether the Russian Energia launcher or Buran shuttle could be brought back into service. By then, however, all of the equipment for both (including the vehicles themselves) had fallen into disrepair or been repurposed after falling into disuse with the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 2010 the director of Moscow's Central Machine Building Institute said the \"Buran\" project would be reviewed in the hope of restarting a similar manned spacecraft design, with rocket test launches as soon as 2015. Russia also continues work on the PPTS but has abandoned the Kliper program, due to differences in vision with its European partners.\n\nDue to the 2011 retirement of the American Space Shuttle and the need for STS-type craft in the meantime to complete the International Space Station, some American and Russian scientists had been mulling over plans to possibly revive the already-existing Buran shuttles in the Buran programme rather than spend money on an entirely new craft and wait for it to be fully developed but the plans did not come to fruition.\n\nOn the 25th anniversary of the \"Buran\" flight in November 2013, Oleg Ostapenko, the new head of Roscosmos, the Russian Federal Space Agency, proposed that a new heavy lift launch vehicle be built for the Russian space program. The rocket would be intended to place a payload of in a baseline low Earth orbit and is projected to be based on the Angara launch vehicle technology.\n\n\n\n\nUnlike the US Space Shuttle, which was propelled by a combination of solid boosters and the shuttle orbiter's own liquid-fuel engines fueled from a large fuel tank, the Soviet/Russian shuttle system used thrust from the rocket's four RD-170 liquid oxygen/kerosene engines developed by Valentin Glushko and another four RD-0120 liquid oxygen/liquid hydrogen engines.\n\nBecause Buran's debut followed that of , and because there were striking visual similarities between the two shuttle systems—a state of affairs which recalled the similarity between the Tupolev Tu-144 and Concorde supersonic airliners—many speculated that Cold War espionage played a role in the development of the Soviet shuttle. Despite remarkable external similarities, many key differences existed, which suggests that, had espionage been a factor in Buran's development, it would likely have been in the form of external photography or early airframe designs. One CIA commenter states that Buran was based on a rejected NASA design. See the section above.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42899470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42899470", "title": "Chloroflexales", "text": "Chloroflexales\n\nChloroflexales is one of two orders of bacteria in the class Chloroflexi.\n\n"}
{"id": "23265330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23265330", "title": "Civil–military relations", "text": "Civil–military relations\n\nCivil–military relations (Civ-Mil or CMR) describes the relationship between civil society as a whole and the military organization or organizations established to protect it. CMR is an umbrella concept that incorporates a diverse, often normative field, which moves within and across management, social science and policy scales. More narrowly, it describes the relationship between the civil authority of a given society and its military authority. Studies of civil-military relations often rest on a normative assumption that civilian control of the military is preferable to military control of the state, although some analyses are more descriptive in nature.\n\nA paradox lies at the center of traditional civil-military relations theory. The military, an institution designed to protect the polity, must also be strong enough to threaten the society it serves. A military take-over or coup is a worst-case example. Ultimately, the military must accept that civilian authorities have the \"right to be wrong\". In other words, they may be responsible for carrying out a policy decision they disagree with. Civilian supremacy over the military is a complicated matter. The rightness or wrongness of a policy or decision can be ambiguous. Civilian decision makers may be impervious to corrective information. The relationship between civilian authorities and military leaders must be worked out in practice. \n\nThe principal problem they examine, however, is empirical: to explain how civilian control over the military is established and maintained. In the broader sense it examines the ways society and military intersect or interact and includes topics such as the integration of veterans into society, methods used to recruit and retain service members, and the fairness and efficacy of these systems, the integration of minorities, women, and the LGBT community into the military, the behavior and consequences of private contractors, the role of culture in military organizations, voting behavior of soldiers and veterans, and the gaps in policy preferences between citizen and soldiers. \n\nWhile generally not considered a separate academic area of study in and of itself, it involves scholars and practitioners from many fields and specialties. Apart from political science and sociology, Civ-Mil (CMR) draws upon such diverse fields as law, philosophy, area studies, psychology, cultural studies, anthropology, economics, history, diplomatic history, journalism, and the military, among others. It involves study and discussion of a diverse range of issues including but not limited to: civilian control of the military, military professionalism, war, civil-military operations, military institutions, and other related subjects. International in scope, civil-military relations involves discussion and research from across the world. The theoretical discussion can include non-state actors as well as more traditional nation-states. Other research involves discerning the details of military political attitudes, voting behavior, and the potential impact on and interaction with democratic society as well as military families..\n\nThe history of civil-military relations can be traced to the writings of Sun Tzu and Carl von Clausewitz, both of whom argued that military organizations were primarily the servants of the state.\n\nConcerns about a growing militarism in society, largely coming from the experiences of the first half of the twentieth century, engendered an examination into the impact of military organizations within society.\n\nThe ramifications of the Cold War, specifically the American decision to maintain a large standing army for the first time in its history, led to concerns about whether such a large military structure could be effectively maintained by a liberal democracy. Samuel P. Huntington and Morris Janowitz published the seminal books on the subject which effectively brought civil-military relations into academia, particularly in political science and sociology. \n\nDespite the peculiarly American impetus for Huntington's and Janowitz's writing, their theoretical arguments have been used in the study of other national civil-military studies. For example, Ayesha Ray used the ideas of Huntington in her book about Indian civil-military relations. In \"The Man on Horseback\", Samuel E. Finer countered some of Huntington's arguments and assumption and offered a look into the civil-military relationships in the under-developed world. Finer observed that many governments do not have the administrative skills to efficiently govern which may open opportunities for military intervention—opportunities that are not as likely in more developed countries.\n\nThe increased incidence of military coups d'état since World War II, particularly in the 1960s and 1970s, brought about a growing interest in academic and journalistic circles in studying the nature of such coups. Political upheaval in Africa led to military take-overs in Dahomey, Togo, Congo, and Uganda, to mention just a few. Political unrest in South America, which involved military coups in Bolivia (189 military coups in its first 169 years of existence), Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay, was largely a result of forces attempting to stem the increasing influence of left-wing and communist led uprisings. The 2006 military coup in Thailand engendered continued interest in this area.\n\nThe end of the Cold War led to new debate about to the proper role of the military in society, both in the United States and in the former Soviet Union. However, as before, much of the discussion revolved around whether the power of the state was in decline and whether an appropriate level of civilian control was being brought to bear on the military.\n\nThe principal professional organization for civil-military scholars is the Inter-University Seminar on Armed Forces and Society (IUS). The IUS sponsors \"Armed Forces & Society: An Interdisciplinary Journal\" which publishes articles on civil-military relations, force diversity, veterans, military families, privatization, officer training, recruitment and retention, public opinion, conflict management, unit cohesion, ethics, and peacemaking. The journal \"Armed Forces & Society\" is located at Texas State University and is currently edited by Patricia M. Shields. The Inter-University Seminar on Armed Forces and Society and the journal are international in scope. They have a conference every other year in odd years. The 2017 conference was held in Reston VA. \n\nThe topics of research in Civil-Military Relations are varied as evidenced by recent scholarship in such topics as:\n\n\nIn 1945, the United States began a demobilization of the massive military force that had been built up during World War II. Strong public and bipartisan pressure succeeded in forcing the government to bring American soldiers home and to reduce the size of the armed forces quickly. Strikes and even some rioting by military personnel at overseas bases in January 1946 pressured President Harry S. Truman to continue the process despite growing concern about the Soviet Union and an increasing recognition that the United States was not going to be able to retreat into the isolationism of the pre-war years. Attempts in the United States Congress to continue conscription to provide a trained reserve as a replacement for a large standing military force failed and, in 1947, the World War II draft law expired.\n\nBy the summer of 1950, the armed forces of the United States had fewer than 1.5 million personnel on active duty, down from a high of 12 million in 1945. By the next year, however, in response to North Korea's invasion of South Korea, the size of the U.S. military was again on the rise, doubling to more than 3.2 million personnel. Reaching a high of 3.6 million in 1953, the total number of personnel on active duty in the U.S. military never again dropped below two million during the 40-plus years of the Cold War. After the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union, the size of the active-duty force had, by 1999, dropped to just under 1.4 million personnel. As of February 28, 2009, a total of 1,398,378 men and women remain on active duty in the U.S. armed forces.\n\nThe size of the U.S. military in the latter half of the twentieth century, unprecedented in peacetime, caused concern in some circles, primarily as to the potential effect of maintaining such a large force in a democratic society. Some predicted disaster and were concerned with the growing militarization of American society. These writers were quite sure that a distinctly military culture was inherently dangerous to a non-militaristic liberal society. Others warned that the ascendancy of the military establishment would fundamentally change American foreign policy and would weaken the intellectual fabric of the country. However, most of the arguments were less apocalyptic and settled along two tracks. The two tracks are highlighted, respectively, by Samuel P. Huntington's \"Soldier and the State\" and Morris Janowitz's \"The Professional Soldier\".\n\nThe debate focused primarily on the nature of the relationship between the civilian and military worlds. There was widespread agreement that there were two distinct worlds and that they were fundamentally different from one another. The argument was over how best to ensure that the two could coexist without endangering liberal democracy.\n\nIn his seminal 1957 book on civil-military relations, \"The Soldier and the State\", Samuel P. Huntington described the differences between the two worlds as a contrast between the attitudes and values held by military personnel, mostly conservative, and those held by civilians, mostly liberal. Each world consisted of a separate institution with its own operative rules and norms. The military's function was furthermore inherently different from that of the civilian world. Given a more conservative military world which was illiberal in many aspects, it was necessary to find a method of ensuring that the liberal civilian world would be able to maintain its dominance over the military world. Huntington's answer to this problem was \"military professionalism.\"\n\nHuntington focused his study on the officer corps. He first defined a profession and explained that enlisted personnel, while certainly part of the military world, are not, strictly speaking, professionals. He relegated them to the role of tradesmen or skilled craftsmen, necessary but not professionals in his definition of the term. It was professional military officers, not the enlisted technicians of the trade of violence, or even the part-time or amateur reserve officers extant in the mid-1950s (as opposed to the near \"part-time 'regular' \" status characterizing reserve officers with extensive active duty experience, professional military education, and active combat experience in the post-Gulf War period), who would be the key to controlling the military world.\n\nProfessionalizing the military, or at least the officer corps, which is the decision-making authority within the military world, emphasizes the useful aspects of that institution such as discipline, structure, order, and self-sacrifice. It also isolates the corps in a specialized arena in which the military professionals would be recognized as experts in the use of force. As recognized experts not subject to the interference of the civilian world, the military's officer corps would willingly submit itself to civil authority. In Huntington's words, such an arrangement maintained a \"focus on a politically neutral, autonomous, and professional officer corps.\"\n\nIn order for the civilian authority to maintain control, it needed to have a way to direct the military without unduly infringing on the prerogatives of the military world and thus provoking a backlash. Civilian leadership would decide the objective of any military action but then leave it to the military world to decide upon the best way of achieving the objective. The problem facing civilian authority, then, is in deciding on the ideal amount of control. Too much control over the military could result in a force too weak to defend the nation, resulting in failure on the battlefield. Too little control would create the possibility of a coup, i.e., failure of the government.\n\nHuntington's answer to the control dilemma was \"objective civilian control.\" This was in contrast to \"subjective control,\" in which direction would be more intrusive and detailed. To put it simply, the more \"objective civilian control,\" the more military security. Civilian control, then, is the independent variable for the subsequent dependent variable of military effectiveness.\n\nIf civilian control is the critical variable for military effectiveness, it raises the question of how civilian control is then to be determined. Huntington identified two shaping forces or imperatives for civilian control – (1) functional and (2) societal. He broke the societal imperative into two components, ideology and structure. By ideology, he meant a world-view or paradigm: liberal anti-military, conservative pro-military, fascist pro-military, and Marxist anti-military. By structure, he meant the legal-constitutional framework that guided political affairs generally and civil-military affairs specifically.\n\nAccording to Huntington and early studies of civil-military relationships, it is considered that effective civil-military relations should be in the form of objective civilian control over their armed forces. This control is indicated by the following factors; (1) the military's adoption of professional ethos and their recognition of boundaries of professional roles, (2) effective subordination of the military to civilian political leadership that formulates strategic directives on foreign and military policies, (3) recognition and approval from political leaders to the professional authorities and autonomy of the military and (4) minimal intervention of the military in politics and of politicians in military affairs.\n\nIf Huntington's imperatives are the independent variables, then the variable of civilian control becomes, in turn, an explanatory variable for military security. However, Huntington says that both societal imperatives, ideology, and structure, are unchanging, at least in the American case. If that is the case, then the functional imperative is fully explanatory for changes in civilian control and subsequently military security. In short, if external threats are low, liberal ideology \"extirpates\" or eliminates military forces. If external threats are high, liberal ideology produces a \"transmutation\" effect that will re-create the military in accordance with liberalism, but in such a form that it will lose its \"peculiarly military characteristics.\" Transmutation will work for short periods, such as to fight a war, but will not, over time, assure military security. This appears to explain well the pattern of American militarization and demobilization, at least until the initiation of the Cold War.\n\nWith the understanding that the rise of the Soviet Union created a long-term threat, Huntington concluded that the liberal society of the United States would fail to create adequate military forces to ensure security over the long term. The only circumstance he could foresee that would permit adequate military security was for the United States to change the societal imperative. \"The tension between the demands of military security and the values of American liberalism can, in the long run, be relieved only by the weakening of the security threat or the weakening of liberalism.\" The only way the United States could adequately provide security in the face of a long-term threat such as the Soviet Union, in other words, was for American society to become more conservative.\n\nThe other principal thread within the civil-military theoretical debate was that generated in 1960 by Morris Janowitz in \"The Professional Soldier\". Janowitz agreed with Huntington that separate military and civilian worlds existed, but differed from his predecessor regarding the ideal solution for preventing danger to liberal democracy. Since the military world as he saw it was fundamentally conservative, it would resist change and not adapt as rapidly as the more open and unstructured civilian society to changes in the world. Thus, according to Janowitz, the military would benefit from exactly what Huntington argued against – outside intervention.\n\nJanowitz introduced a theory of convergence, arguing that the military, despite the extremely slow pace of change, was in fact changing even without external pressure. Convergence theory postulated either a civilianization of the military or a militarization of society However, despite this convergence, Janowitz insisted that the military world would retain certain essential differences from the civilian and that it would remain recognizably military in nature.\n\nJanowitz agreed with Huntington that, because of the fundamental differences between the civilian and military worlds, clashes would develop which would diminish the goal of civilian control of the military. His answer was to ensure that convergence occurred, thus ensuring that the military world would be imbued with the norms and expectations of the society that created it. He encouraged use of conscription, which would bring a wide variety of individuals into the military. He also encouraged the use of more Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) programs at colleges and universities to ensure that the military academies did not have a monopoly on the type of officer, particularly the senior general officer and flag officer leadership positions, in the military services. He specifically encouraged the development of ROTC programs in the more elite universities, so that the broader influences of society would be represented by the officer corps. The more such societal influences present within the military culture, the smaller the attitudinal differences between the two worlds and the greater the chance of civilians maintaining control over the military. Janowitz, like Huntington, believed that the civilian and military worlds were different from one another; while Huntington developed a theory to control the difference, Janowitz developed a theory to diminish the difference.\n\nIn response to Huntington's position on the functional imperative, Janowitz concluded that in the new nuclear age, the United States was going to have to be able to deliver both strategic deterrence and an ability to participate in limited wars. Such a regime, new in American history, was going to require a new military self-conception, the constabulary concept: \"The military establishment becomes a constabulary force when it is continuously prepared to act, committed to the minimum use of force, and seeks viable international relations, rather than victory...\" Under this new concept of the military establishment, distinctions between war and peace are more difficult to draw. The military, instead of viewing itself as a fire company to be called out in emergency, would then be required to imagine itself in the role of a police force, albeit on the international level rather than domestically. The role of the civilian elite would be to interact closely with the military elite so as to ensure a new and higher standard of professional military education, one that would ensure that military professionals were more closely attuned to the ideals and norms of civilian society.\n\nCharles Moskos developed the institutional/occupational (I/O) hypothesis as a means to promote comparative historical studies of military organization and military change. This hypothesis evolved into the Postmodern Military Model, which helped predict the course of civil-military relations after the end of the Cold War. The I/O hypothesis argued that the military was moving away from an institutional model towards one that was more occupational in nature. An institutional model presents the military as an organization highly divergent from civilian society while an occupational model presents the military more convergent with civilian structures. While Moskos did not propose that the military was ever \"entirely separate or entirely coterminous with civilian society\", the use of a scale helped better to highlight the changing interface between the armed forces and society.\n\nThe Vietnam War opened deep arguments about civil-military relations that continue to exert powerful influences today. One centered on a contention within military circles that the United States lost the war because of unnecessary civilian meddling in military matters. It was argued that the civilian leadership failed to understand how to use military force and improperly restrained the use of force in achieving victory. Among the first to analyze the war critically was Harry Summers, who used Clausewitz as his theoretical basis. He argued that the principal reason for the loss of the Vietnam War was a failure on the part of the political leadership to understand the goal, which was victory. The Army, always successful on the battlefield, ultimately did not achieve victory because it was misused and misunderstood. Summers argued that the conduct of the war violated many classical principals as described by Clausewitz, thereby contributing to failure. He ended his analysis with a \"quintessential strategic lesson learned\": that the Army must become \"masters of the profession of arms,\" thus reinforcing an idea along the lines of Huntington's argument for strengthening military professionalism.\n\nH.R. McMaster observed that it was easier for officers in the Gulf War to connect national policy to the actual fighting than was the case during Vietnam. He concluded that the Vietnam War had actually been lost in Washington, D.C., before any fighting occurred, due to a fundamental failure on the part of the civilian and military actors involved to argue the issues adequately. McMaster, who urged a more direct debate between civilians and the military on defense policy and actions, and Summers, who argued for a clear separation between civilians and the military, both pointed out controversies over the proper roles of civilian and military leaders.\n\nDespite those controversies and the apparent lessons learned from the Vietnam War, some theorists recognized a significant problem with Huntington's theory insofar as it appears to question the notion of a separate, apolitical professional military. While there is little argument that separate civilian and military worlds exist, there is significant debate about the proper interaction between the two. As discussed above, Huntington proposed that the ideal arrangement was one whereby civilian political leaders provided objective control to the military leadership and then stepped back to permit the experts in violence to do what was most effective. He further stated that the most dangerous arrangement was one whereby civilian leaders intruded extensively in the military world, creating a situation whereby the military leadership was not politically neutral and security of the nation was thus threatened both by an ineffective military and by provoking the military to avoid taking orders.\n\nArguably, however, and despite Huntington's urging otherwise, U.S. civilian leadership had been intrusive in its control over the military, not only during the Vietnam War, but also during much of the Cold War. During that time, the military elite had been extensively involved in the politics of defense budgets and management, and yet the United States had managed to emerge successfully from the Cold War. Despite that, none of Huntington's more dire predictions had proven true.\n\nIn response to this apparent \"puzzle,\" Peter D. Feaver laid out an agency theory of civil-military relations, which he argued should replace Huntington's institutional theory. Taking a rationalist approach, he used a principal-agent framework, drawn from microeconomics, to explore how actors in a superior position influence those in a subordinate role. He used the concepts of \"working\" and \"shirking\" to explain the actions of the subordinate. In his construct, the principal is the civilian leadership that has the responsibility of establishing policy. The agent is the military that will work – carry out the designated task – or shirk – evading the principal's wishes and carrying out actions that further the military's own interests. Shirking at its worst may be disobedience, but Feaver includes such things as \"foot-dragging\" and leaks to the press.\n\nThe problem for the principal is how to ensure that the agent is doing what the principal wants done. Agency theory predicts that if the costs of monitoring the agent are low, the principal will use intrusive methods of control. Intrusive methods include, for the executive branch, such things as inspections, reports, reviews of military plans, and detailed control of the budget, and for Congress, committee oversight hearings and requiring routine reports. For the military agent, if the likelihood that shirking will be detected by the civilian principal is high or if the perceived costs of being punished are too high, the likelihood of shirking is low.\n\nFeaver argued that his theory was different from other theories or models in that it was purely deductive, based on democratic theory rather than on anecdotal evidence, and better enabled analysis of day-to-day decisions and actions on the part of the civilian and military leadership. It operated at the intersection of Huntington's institutional approach and Janowitz's sociological point of view. Huntington concentrated on the relationship between civilian leadership and the military qua institution while Janowitz focused on the relationship of the military qua individuals to American society. Agency theory provided a link between the two enabling an explanation of how civil-military relations work on a day-to-day basis. Specifically, agency theory would predict that the result of a regime of intrusive monitoring by the civilian leadership combined with shirking on the part of the military would result in the highest levels of civil-military conflict. Feaver suggested that post-Cold War developments had so profoundly reduced the perceived costs of monitoring and reduced the perceived expectation of punishment that the gap between what civilians ask the military to do and what the military would prefer to do had increased to unprecedented levels.\n\nAfter observing that most civil-military theory assumes that the civilian and military worlds must necessarily be separate, both physically and ideologically, Rebecca L. Schiff offered a new theory—Concordance—as an alternative. One of the key questions in Civil-Military Relations (CMR) theory has always been to determine under what conditions the military will intervene in the domestic politics of the nation. Most scholars agree with the theory of objective civilian control of the military (Huntington), which focuses on the separation of civil and military institutions. Such a view concentrates and relies heavily on the U.S. case, from an institutional perspective, and especially during the Cold War period. Schiff provides an alternative theory, from both institutional and cultural perspectives, that explains the U.S. case as well as several non-U.S. civil-military relations case studies.\n\nWhile concordance theory does not preclude a separation between the civilian and military worlds, it does not require such a state to exist. She argues that three societal institutions—(1) the military, (2) political elites, and (3) the citizenry must aim for a cooperative arrangement and some agreement on four primary indicators:\n\n\nIf agreement occurs among the three partners with respect to the four indicators, domestic military intervention is less likely to occur. In her book, \"The Military and Domestic Politics\", she applied her theory to six international historical cases studies: U.S., post–Second World War period; American Post-Revolutionary Period (1790–1800); Israel (1980–90); Argentina (1945–55); India post-Independence and 1980s; Pakistan (1958–69).\n\nAt the heart of civil-military relations is the problem of how a civilian government can control and remain safe from the military institution it created for its own protection. A military force that is strong enough to do what is asked of it must not also pose a danger to the controlling government. This poses the paradox that \"because we fear others we create an institution of violence to protect us, but then we fear the very institution we created for protection\".\n\nThe solution to this problem throughout most of American history was to keep its standing army small, relying on augmentation from militias (the predecessor of modern-day Reserve forces, to include the National Guard) and volunteers. While armed forces were built up during wartime, the pattern after every war up to and including World War II was to demobilize quickly and return to something approaching pre-war force levels. However, with the advent of the Cold War in the 1950s, the need to create and maintain a sizable peacetime military force engendered new concerns of militarism and about how such a large force would affect civil-military relations in the United States. For the first time in American history, the problem of civil-military relations would have to be managed during peacetime.\n\nThe men who wrote the Constitution of the United States were fearful of large standing armies, legislatures that had too much power, and perhaps most of all, a powerful executive who might be able to wage war on his own authority. All were objects of concern because of the dangers each posed to liberal democracy and a free citizenry. While it is often impossible to \"gauge accurately the intent of the Framers\", it is nevertheless important to understand the motivations and concerns of the writers with respect to the appropriate relationship between civil and military authority. The \"Federalist Papers\" provide a helpful view of how they understood the relationship between civil authority, as represented by the executive branch and the legislature, and military authority.\n\nIn Federalist No. 8, Alexander Hamilton worried that maintaining a large standing army would be a dangerous and expensive undertaking. In his principal argument for the ratification of the proposed constitution, he argued that only by maintaining a strong union could the new country avoid such a pitfall. Using the European experience as a negative example and the British experience as a positive one, he presented the idea of a strong nation protected by a navy with no need of a standing army. The implication was that control of a large military force is, at best, difficult and expensive, and at worst invites war and division. He foresaw the necessity of creating a civilian government that kept the military at a distance.\n\nJames Madison, another writer of several of the \"Federalist Papers\", expressed his concern about a standing military in comments before the Constitutional Convention in June 1787:\nIn time of actual war, great discretionary powers are constantly given to the Executive Magistrate. Constant apprehension of War, has the same tendency to render the head too large for the body. A standing military force, with an overgrown Executive, will not long be safe companions to liberty. The means of defense against foreign danger, have been always the instruments of tyranny at home. Among the Romans it was a standing maxim to excite a war, whenever a revolt was apprehended. Throughout all Europe, the armies kept up under the pretext of defending, have enslaved the people.\nThe United States Constitution placed considerable limitations on the legislature. Coming from a tradition of legislative superiority in government, many were concerned that the proposed Constitution would place so many limitations on the legislature that it would become impossible for such a body to prevent an executive from starting a war. Hamilton argued in Federalist No. 26 that it would be equally as bad for a legislature to be unfettered by any other agency and that restraints would actually be more likely to preserve liberty. James Madison, in Federalist No. 47, continued Hamilton's argument that distributing powers among the various branches of government would prevent any one group from gaining so much power as to become unassailable. In Federalist No. 48, however, Madison warned that while the separation of powers is important, the departments must not be so far separated as to have no ability to control the others.\n\nFinally, in Federalist No. 51, Madison argued that to create a government that relied primarily on the good nature of the incumbent to ensure proper government was folly. Institutions must be in place to check incompetent or malevolent leaders. Most importantly, no single branch of government ought to have control over any single aspect of governing. Thus, all three branches of government must have some control over the military, and the system of checks and balances maintained among the other branches would serve to help control the military.\n\nHamilton and Madison thus had two major concerns: (1) the detrimental effect on liberty and democracy of a large standing army and (2) the ability of an unchecked legislature or executive to take the country to war precipitously. These concerns drove American military policy for the first century and a half of the country's existence. Until the 1950s, the maintenance of a large military force by the United States was an exceptional circumstance and was restricted to times of war. Following every war up to and including World War II, the military was quickly demobilized and reduced to near pre-war levels.\n\nMost debates in civil-military relations assumed that a separation between the civilian and military worlds was inevitable and likely necessary. The argument had been over whether to control the gap between the two worlds (Huntington) or to minimize the gap by enacting certain policies (Janowitz). Following the end of the Cold War in 1989, however, the discussion began to focus on the nature of the apparent gap between civilian and military cultures and, more specifically, whether that gap had reached such proportions as to pose a danger to civilian control of the military. Part of the debate was based on the cultural differences between the more liberal civilian society and the conservative military society, and on the recognition that such differences had apparently become more pronounced than in past years.\n\nAlfred Vagts had already begun the discussion from an historical point of view, concentrating on the German/Prussian military experience. He was perhaps most influential with his definition of militarism, which he described as the state of a society that \"ranks military institutions and ways above the prevailing attitudes of civilian life and carries the military mentality into the civilian sphere.\" Louis Smith, whose work pre-dated Huntington's, discussed issues of congressional and judicial control over the military as well as executive civilian control of military matters. However, all that discussion predated a general recognition that the American experience was going to change in the post-World War II era. Once it became apparent that the American military was going to maintain historically high levels of active-duty personnel, concerns about the differences between civilian and military cultures quickly came to the forefront. \n\nThe ensuing debate can be generally divided into three periods with different emphases in each. Much of this discussion is taken from a point paper written by Lindsay P. Cohn while a graduate student at Duke University. Her writing has been widely used as a source of simplifying the analysis of the civil-military gap debate. Dr. Cohn is now on the faculty at the United States Naval War College in Newport, R.I.\n\nThe first period, roughly beginning with the end of World War II and ending in about 1973 with the end of the military draft in the United States, was primarily concerned with defining civil-military relations, understanding the concept of professionalism, and learning how civilians actually controlled the military. As discussed above, Huntington and Janowitz dominated the debate.\n\nThe second period started in about 1973, with the end of conscription and the establishment of the all-volunteer force, and continued until the end of the Cold War. This period was concerned with the supposed lessons of the Vietnam War, how the volunteer force changed the nature of the armed forces, and whether those changes led to wider gaps between military and civilian societies.\n\nThe third period, beginning with the end of the Cold War and continuing today, has seen an increasing interest in and concern about the existence of a \"civil-military culture gap.\" The discussion has centered around four questions:\n\nWhile the debate surrounding a presumed culture gap between civilian and military societies had continued since at least the early 1950s, it became prominent in the early 1990s with the conclusion of the Cold War. The promised \"peace dividend\" led to a debate over changes in American national security strategy and what that would mean in terms of the transformation of the mission, composition, and character of the armed forces.\n\nThe gap debate revolved around two related concepts:\n\n\nFew argued that there was no difference between the two worlds, but some were convinced that the difference itself was the primary danger. Charles Maynes worried that a military force consisting primarily of enlisted personnel from the lower socio-economic classes would ultimately refuse to fight for the goals of the upper classes. Tarr and Roman, on the other hand, were concerned that the similarities between military elites and civilian elites enabled a dangerous politicizing trend among the military. Chivers represented a small number who believed that the differences between the cultures were so small as essentially to be irrelevant.\n\nReasons for the cultural and connectivity gaps vary widely. The self-selective nature of the All-Volunteer Force is seen by some to have led to the unrepresentative nature of the armed forces One argument, put forward by a Navy Chief of Chaplains, was that the drawdown in the size of the military was exacerbating differences and making the separation between the military and civilian societies potentially even more divisive. He worried that unless an effective dialogue could be maintained between the military and civilian branches of society, especially in the area of ethical decision-making, the American military risked losing the support of society or becoming dangerously militaristic. Others argued that the increase in diversity among military personnel has actually strengthened ties between society and the military, especially those ties weakened by the results of the Vietnam War. Most were persuaded that the societal effects of the Vietnam War remained central to the cultural differences.\n\nOne unique view, which does not neatly fall into either of the cultural- or connectivity-gap categories, centers on the organizational differences between the military and civilian societies. This view claims to explain much as to why the military has been or may be used to press ahead of society's norms. This view goes beyond the simpler cultural-gap approach and emphasizes the ability of the military society to control the behavior and attitudes of its members in ways not possible in the more open civilian society, as evidenced by such phenomena as desegregation of the military and inclusion of women in the military.\n\nUltimately, the cultural gap matters only if it endangers civilian control of the military or if it reduces the ability of the country to maintain an effective military force. Those who concentrate on the nature of the gap tend not to be concerned about dangerous trends. However, those who are concerned about the lack of understanding between the civilian and military worlds are uniformly convinced that the civil-military relationship in the United States is unhealthy. Specifically, they have voiced concerns about a military that may become openly contemptuous of civilian norms and values and may then feel free to openly question the value of defending such a society. Others worry whether an inexperienced civilian government will undermine the military by ineffective or inappropriate policies, thus threatening U.S. national security.\n\nThis debate has generally settled on whether or not the gap is too wide. If too wide, civilian control of the military may be jeopardized due to serious misunderstandings between the two worlds. While most agree that such a gap is to be expected and, in and of itself, is not dangerous, some do concede the aspects of that gap have led directly to misunderstandings between the two worlds. In particular, some have argued that the culture of political conservatism and the apparent increase in partisanship of the officer corps has approached a dangerous limit. Nearly all agree that it is possible for the cultural gap to be either too wide or too narrow, but there is wide disagreement as to where the current situation rests on that continuum. While Elizabeth Kier argues that \"structure and function do not determine culture,\" most agree that a difference between the two is necessary because civilian culture was \"incommensurate with military effectiveness.\"\n\nAssuming that a problem exists, many have offered suggestions for narrowing the gap and correcting the problems arising from it. In general, those suggestions are along three lines. The first is that the military must reach out to the civilian world. Given the essentially universal agreement that civilians must control the military, the duty falls upon the military to find ways to talk to civilians, not the other way around. The second is that civilians must articulate a clear vision of what they expect in terms of the military mission. And the final suggestion is that the most practical and effective means of bringing about dialogue and understanding is to be bilateral education, in which both military and civilian elites would jointly attend specialized schools. Such schooling would emphasize military-strategic thinking, American history and political philosophy, military ethics, and the proper relationship between civil and military authority.\n\nSome argue that the root problem is that the military is self-selecting, rendering the culture a self-perpetuating one. Solutions such as the reinstatement of the draft and a European-style national service obligation have been offered. but none appear to have made any progress toward adoption.\n\nA common issue that hinders many civil-military relations is when civil political leaders attempt to resume or gain a certain degree of civilian control after a period of transition, conflict or dictatorship, but do not possess the necessary capacities and commitment to handle defense affairs. What should happen in such transitions is that when military figures begin to be withdrawn from political positions in order to achieve some balance, is that civilian politicians should be taught to deal with policy formulation and given an oversight on the defense sector so as to efficiently replace the former military leaders. However, civilian control over the military, despite the efforts that have been made over the past years, has yet to become institutionalized in many countries.\nThe challenges that civil-military relations face in many countries, such as Indonesia, center around problems of military culture, overlapping coordination, authority, lack of resources and institutional deficits.\nThe military cannot continue to be an organization with unmatched institutional reach and political influence, while limiting state capacity, because in doing so it will be evermore challenging for civilian supremacy to take a stance, thus establishing effective civil-military relations. If these problems are not addressed properly, as long as civil-military relations of countries continue to interact within undefined boundaries, without clear subordination and authority and with the constrictions of limited budgets, it is unlikely that countries that still struggle with the concept will achieve a stable and efficient civil-military relationship, something that will continue to damage state capacity and stability.\n\nAccording to Amitai Etzioni of the Institute for Communitarian Policy Studies, the AirSea Battle doctrine is an example of a situation in which the military conceptualizes and develops a plan to counter a perceived threat to the United States without sufficient civilian oversight.\n\nResearchers from the Overseas Development Institute wrote that 'the belief that development and reconstruction activities are central to security'...'is a central component of western involvement' and that this has been 'highly contentious among aid agencies, perhaps nowhere more so than Afghanistan.'\nTheir April 2013 paper includes the following three key messages -\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10737327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10737327", "title": "Close to Shore", "text": "Close to Shore\n\nClose to Shore: A True Story of Terror in an Age of Innocence is a non-fiction book by journalist Michael Capuzzo about the Jersey Shore shark attacks of 1916. The book was published in 2001 by Broadway Books.\n\n"}
{"id": "24053946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24053946", "title": "Damped Lyman-alpha system", "text": "Damped Lyman-alpha system\n\nDamped Lyman alpha systems or Damped Lyman alpha absorption systems are concentrations of neutral hydrogen gas, detected in the spectra of quasars. They are defined to be systems where the column density (density projected along the line of sight to the quasar) of hydrogen is larger than 2 x 10 atoms/cm. \n\nThe observed spectra consist of neutral hydrogen Lyman alpha absorption lines which are broadened by radiation damping. These systems can be observed in quantity at relatively high redshifts of 2-4, when they contained most of the neutral hydrogen in the universe.\nThey are believed to be associated with the early stages of galaxy formation, as the high neutral hydrogen column densities of DLAs are also typical of sightlines in the Milky Way, and other nearby galaxies. Since they are observed in absorption rather than by their stars, they offer the opportunity to study the dynamics of the gas in early galaxies directly.\n\n"}
{"id": "564527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=564527", "title": "Density matrix renormalization group", "text": "Density matrix renormalization group\n\nThe density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) is a numerical variational technique devised to obtain the low-energy physics of quantum many-body systems with high accuracy. As a variational method, DMRG is an efficient algorithm that attempts to find the lowest-energy matrix product state wavefunction of a Hamiltonian. It was invented in 1992 by Steven R. White and it is nowadays the most efficient method for 1-dimensional systems.\n\nThe main problem of quantum many-body physics is the fact that the Hilbert space grows exponentially with size. For example, a spin-1/2 chain of length \"L\" has 2 degrees of freedom. The DMRG is an iterative, variational method that reduces effective degrees of freedom to those most important for a target state. The target state is often the ground state.\n\nAfter a warmup cycle, the method splits the system into two subsystems, or blocks, which need not have equal sizes, and two sites in between. A set of \"representative states\" has been chosen for the block during the warmup. This set of left block + two sites + right block is known as the superblock. Now a candidate for the ground state of the superblock, which is a reduced version of the full system, may be found. It may have a rather poor accuracy, but the method is iterative and improves with the steps below.\n\nThe candidate ground state that has been found is projected into the Hilbert subspace for each block using a density matrix, hence the name. Thus, the \"relevant states\" for each block are updated.\n\nNow one of the blocks grows at the expense of the other and the procedure is repeated. When the growing block reaches maximum size, the other starts to grow in its place. Each time we return to the original (equal sizes) situation, we say that a \"sweep\" has been completed. Normally, a few sweeps are enough to get a precision of a part in 10 for a 1D lattice.\n\nThe first application of the DMRG, by Steven White and Reinhard Noack, was a \"toy model\": to find the spectrum of a spin 0 particle in a 1D box. This model had been proposed by Kenneth G. Wilson as a test for any new renormalization group method, because they all happened to fail with this simple problem. The DMRG overcame the problems of previous renormalization group methods by connecting two blocks with the two sites in the middle rather than just adding a single site to a block at each step as well as by using the density matrix to identify the most important states to be kept at the end of each step. After succeeding with the \"toy model\", the DMRG method was tried with success on the Heisenberg model (quantum).\n\nA practical implementation of the DMRG algorithm is a lengthy work. A few of the main computational tricks are these:\n\n\nThe DMRG has been successfully applied to get the low energy properties of spin chains: Ising model in a transverse field, Heisenberg model, etc., fermionic systems, such as the Hubbard model, problems with impurities such as the Kondo effect, boson systems, and the physics of quantum dots joined with quantum wires. It has been also extended to work on tree graphs, and has found applications in the study of dendrimers. For 2D systems with one of the dimensions much larger than the other DMRG is also accurate, and has proved useful in the study of ladders.\n\nThe method has been extended to study equilibrium statistical physics in 2D, and to analyze non-equilibrium phenomena in 1D.\n\nThe DMRG has also been applied to the field of Quantum Chemistry to study strongly correlated systems.\n\nThe success of the DMRG for 1D systems is related to the fact that it is a variational method within the space of matrix product states. These are states of the form\n\nwhere formula_2 are the values of the e.g. \"z\"-component of the spin in a spin chain, and the \"A\" are matrices of arbitrary dimension \"m\". As \"m\" → ∞, the representation becomes exact. This theory was exposed by S. Rommer and S. Ostlund in .\n\nIn 2004 the time-evolving block decimation method was developed to implement real time evolution of Matrix Product States. The idea is based on the classical simulation of a quantum computer. Subsequently, a new method was devised to compute real time evolution within the DMRG formalism - See the paper by A. Feiguin and S.R. White .\n\nIn recent years, some proposals to extend the method to 2D and 3D have been put forward, extending the definition of the Matrix Product States. See this paper by F. Verstraete and I. Cirac, .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30107516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30107516", "title": "Discovering Psychology", "text": "Discovering Psychology\n\nDiscovering Psychology is a PBS documentary on psychology presented by Philip Zimbardo, for which he received the Carl Sagan Award for Public Understanding of Science. The series was released in 1990, with an updated edition comprising three additional episodes in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28000894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28000894", "title": "Doubt Is Their Product", "text": "Doubt Is Their Product\n\nDoubt is Their Product: How Industry's Assault on Science Threatens Your Health is a 2008 book by David Michaels, Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health under U.S. President Obama.\n\n\"Doubt is our product,\" Michaels quotes a cigarette executive as saying, \"since it is the best means of competing with the 'body of fact' that exists in the minds of the general public. It is also the means of establishing a controversy.\" Michaels argues that, for decades, cigarette manufacturers knew that their product was hazardous to people's health, but hired mercenary scientists who \"manufactured uncertainty by questioning every study, dissecting every method, and disputing every conclusion\". In doing so the tobacco industry waged a campaign that \"successfully delayed regulation and victim compensation for decades\"\n\n\"Doubt is Their Product\" documents how the tobacco industry's tactics spawned a multimillion dollar industry that is dismantling public health safeguards in areas far from tobacco. Product defense consultants, he argues, have increasingly skewed the scientific literature, manufactured and magnified scientific uncertainty, and influenced policy decisions to the advantage of polluters and the manufacturers of dangerous products. To keep the public confused about the hazards posed by global warming, second-hand smoke, asbestos, lead, plastics, and many other toxic materials, industry executives have hired unscrupulous scientists and lobbyists to dispute scientific evidence about health risks. In doing so, they have not only delayed action on specific hazards, but they have constructed barriers to make it harder for lawmakers, government agencies, and courts to respond to future threats.\n\n\"Doubt is Their Product\" has been reviewed in \"Science\", \"New Scientist\", and \"Chemical and Engineering News\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5258927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5258927", "title": "ESO/ST-ECF Science Archive Facility", "text": "ESO/ST-ECF Science Archive Facility\n\nThe ESO/ST-ECF Science Archive Facility is an electronic archive for astronomical data. It currently contains more than 40.0 Terabytes of scientific data obtained with the ESA/NASA Hubble Space Telescope (HST), with the ESO New Technology Telescope (NTT) and Very Large Telescope (VLT) and with the Wide Field Imager on the ESO/MPI 2.2m Telescope.\n\n"}
{"id": "42363753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42363753", "title": "Expectation confirmation theory", "text": "Expectation confirmation theory\n\nExpectation confirmation theory (alternatively ECT or expectation disconfirmation theory) is a cognitive theory which seeks to explain post-purchase or post-adoption satisfaction as a function of expectations, perceived performance, and disconfirmation of beliefs. The structure of the theory was developed in a series of two papers written by Richard L. Oliver in 1977 and 1980. Although the theory originally appeared in the psychology and marketing literatures, it has since been adopted in several other scientific fields, notably including consumer research and information systems, among others.\n\nExpectation confirmation theory involves four primary constructs: expectations, perceived performance, disconfirmation of beliefs, and satisfaction.\n\n\"Expectations\" refer to the attributes or characteristics that a person anticipates or predicts will be associated with an entity such as a product, service, or technology artifact. Expectations are posited to directly influence both perceptions of performance and disconfirmation of beliefs, and are posited to indirectly influence post-purchase or post-adoption satisfaction by way of a mediational relationship through the disconfirmation construct. Pre-purchase or pre-adoption expectations form the basis of comparison against which the product, service, or technology artifact is ultimately judged.\n\n\"Perceived performance\" refers to a person’s perceptions of the actual performance of a product, service, or technology artifact. According to expectation confirmation theory, perceptions of performance are directly influenced by pre-purchase or pre-adoption expectations, and in turn directly influence disconfirmation of beliefs and post-purchase or post-adoption satisfaction. Perceived performance is also posited to indirectly influence post-purchase or post-adoption satisfaction by way of a mediational relationship through the disconfirmation construct.\n\n\"Disconfirmation of beliefs\" refers to the judgments or evaluations that a person makes with respect to a product, service, or technology artifact. These evaluations or judgments are made in comparison to the person’s original expectations. When a product, service, or technology artifact outperforms the person’s original expectations, the disconfirmation is positive, which is posited to increase post-purchase or post-adoption satisfaction. When a product, service, or technology artifact underperforms the person’s original expectations, the disconfirmation is negative, which is posited to decrease post-purchase or post-adoption satisfaction (i.e., to increase dissatisfaction).\n\nPost-purchase or post-adoption \"satisfaction\" refers to the extent to which a person is pleased or contented with a product, service, or technology artifact after having gained direct experience with the product, service, or artifact. Expectation confirmation theory posits that satisfaction is directly influenced by disconfirmation of beliefs and perceived performance, and is indirectly influenced by both expectations and perceived performance by means of a mediational relationship which passes through the disconfirmation construct.\n"}
{"id": "33477773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33477773", "title": "Gibsonian ecological theory of development", "text": "Gibsonian ecological theory of development\n\nThe Gibsonian ecological theory of development is a theory of development that was created by American psychologist Eleanor J. Gibson during the 1960s and 1970s. Gibson emphasized the importance of environment and context in learning and, together with husband and fellow psychologist James J. Gibson, argued that perception was crucial as it allowed humans to adapt to their environments. Gibson stated that \"children learn to detect information that specifies objects, events, and layouts in the world that they can use for their daily activities\". Thus, humans learn out of necessity. Children are information \"hunter-gatherers\", gathering information in order to survive and navigate in the world.\n\nGibson asserted that development was driven by a complex interaction between environmental affordances and the motivated humans who perceive them. For example, to an infant, different surfaces \"afford\" opportunities for walking, crawling, grasping, etc. As children gain motor skills, they discover new opportunities for movement and thus new affordances. The more chances they are given to perceive and interact with their environment, the more affordances they discover, and the more accurate their perceptions become.\n\nGibson identified four important aspects of human behavior that develop:\n\nGibson used experimental procedures while also attempting to retain ecological validity by simulating important features of the child's natural environment. In keeping with the idea of affordances, Gibson tried to provide multimodal stimulation for infants in these experiments (multiple kinds of objects, faces, or surfaces, for example) and ways of obtaining feedback through movement and exploration.\n\nOne of Gibson's well-known perceptual experiments involved the construction of a \"visual cliff,\" simulating a real cliff. Gibson and Walk placed infants near the cliff and placed mothers on the other side of the cliff. They found that infants perceived depth and were unwilling to crawl over the cliff at approximately 6–7 months. Later experiments showed that 12-month-old infants had learned to use their mothers' facial expressions as signals of potential affordances. If mothers smiled, infants were more likely to crawl over the \"dangerous\" cliff, but if mothers made a frightened face, infants avoided the cliff.\n\nGibson's theory has been criticized for its \"unclear account of cognition\". Gibson's theory pertains to direct perception and does not take into account that behaviors may involve indirect, interpretive cognition. Gibson's methodology involves an expensive and complicated experimental set up, which may prove cost- and time-prohibitive for many researchers. Finally, Gibson's research was almost exclusively confined to infants and very young children, so it is difficult to make generalizations throughout the lifespan.\n\nAside from her own writings, Gibson's work is rarely described as a theory of development. When Gibson's primary area of research, affordances, is referenced, the citations typically refer only to James Gibson. Gibson is credited with popularizing affordances in perceptual research. However, unlike Gibson, researchers have studied affordances in all age groups, including adults. Affordances have been applied to a range of innovative topics, from automobile driving to text messaging. However, the concept of affordances is usually used in isolation rather than being integrated into Gibson's ecological framework. Some researchers are even attempting to create their own theories of affordances instead of revising Gibson's theory to accommodate new findings.\n"}
{"id": "237500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237500", "title": "Headhunting", "text": "Headhunting\n\nHeadhunting is the practice of taking and preserving a person's head after killing the person. Headhunting was practised in historic times in parts of Oceania, South Asia and Southeast Asia, West and Central Africa, Mesoamerica, and Europe. It occurred in Europe to the end of the Middle Ages in Ireland and the Anglo-Scottish border regions, and until the 20th century in Montenegro, Croatia, Albania, and western parts of Herzegovina.\n\nThe headhunting practice has been the subject of intense study within the anthropological community, where scholars try to assess and interpret its social roles, functions, and motivations. Anthropological writings explore themes in headhunting that include mortification of the rival, ritual violence, cosmological balance, the display of manhood, cannibalism, dominance over the body and soul of his enemies in life and afterlife, as a trophy and proof of killing (achievement in hunting), show of greatness, prestige by taking on a rival's spirit and power, and as a means of securing the services of the victim as a slave in the afterlife.\n\nToday's scholars generally agree that headhunting's primary function was ritual and ceremonial. It was part of the process of structuring, reinforcing, and defending hierarchical relationships between communities and individuals. Some experts theorize that the practice stemmed from the belief that the head contained \"soul matter\" or life force, which could be harnessed through its capture.\n\nHeadhunting was practised by many Austronesian people in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands. Headhunting has at one time or another been practised among most of the peoples of Melanesia, including New Guinea. A missionary found 10,000 skulls in a community longhouse on Goaribari Island in 1901.\n\nHistorically, the Marind-anim in New Guinea were famed because of their headhunting. The practice was rooted in their belief system and linked to the name-giving of the newborn. The skull was believed to contain a mana-like force. Headhunting was not motivated primarily by cannibalism, but the dead person's flesh was consumed in ceremonies following the capture and killing.\n\nThe Korowai, a Papuan tribe in the southeast of Irian Jaya, live in tree houses, some nearly 40 metres high. This is believed to be a defensive practice, presumably as protection against the Citak, a tribe of neighbouring headhunters. Some researchers believe that the American Michael Rockefeller, who disappeared in New Guinea in 1961 while on a field trip, may have been taken by headhunters in the Asmat region. He was the son of New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller.\n\nIn \"The Cruise of the Snark\" (1911), the account by Jack London of his 1905 adventure sailing in Micronesia, he recounted that headhunters of Malaita attacked his ship during a stay in Langa Langa Lagoon, particularly around Laulasi Island. His and other ships were kidnapping villagers as workers on plantations, a practice known as blackbirding. Captain Mackenzie of the ship \"Minolta\" was beheaded by villagers as retribution for the loss of village men during an armed labour \"recruiting\" drive. The villagers believed that the ship's crew \"owed\" several more heads before the score was even.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, anthropological writings have explored headhunting and other practises of the Murut, Ilongot, Igorot, Iban, Dayak, Berawan, Wana, and Mappurondo tribes. Among these groups, headhunting was usually a ritual activity rather than an act of war or feuding. A warrior would take a single head. Headhunting acted as a catalyst for the cessation of personal and collective mourning for the community's dead. Ideas of manhood and marriage were encompassed in the practice, and the taken heads were highly prized. Other reasons for headhunting included capture of enemies as slaves, looting of valuable properties, intra and inter-ethnic conflicts, and territorial expansion.\n\nItalian anthropologist and explorer Elio Modigliani visited the headhunting communities in South Nias (an island to the west of Sumatra) in 1886; he wrote a detailed study of their society and beliefs. He found that the main purpose of headhunting was the belief that, if a man owned another person's skull, his victim would serve as a slave of the owner for eternity in the afterlife. Human skulls were a valuable commodity. Sporadic headhunting continued in Nias island until the late 20th century, the last reported incident dating from 1998.\n\nHeadhunting was practised among Sumba people until the early 20th century. It was done only in large war parties. When the men hunted wild animals, by contrast, they operated in silence and secrecy. The skulls collected were hung on the skull tree erected in the center of village. As recently as 1998, in Waikabubak, a major clash of clans resulted in some people being decapitated. This was reminiscent of the headhunting tradition.\n\nKenneth George wrote about annual headhunting rituals that he observed among the Mappurondo religious minority, an upland tribe in the southwest part of the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. Heads are not taken; instead, surrogate heads in the form of coconuts are used in a ritual ceremony. The ritual, called \"pangngae,\" takes place at the conclusion of the rice-harvesting season. It functions to bring an end to communal mourning for the deceased of the past year; express intercultural tensions and polemics; allow for a display of manhood; distribute communal resources; and resist outside pressures to abandon Mappurondo ways of life.\n\nUnited States authorities in the Philippines suppressed headhunting among the Ilongot in the 1930s. The Igorot in the Philippines also practiced headhunting.\n\nThe Wa tribe, whose domain straddles the Burma-China border, were once known to Europeans as the \"Wild Wa\" for their \"savage\" behavior. Until the 1970s, the Wa practiced headhunting.\nIn Sarawak, the north-western region of the island of Borneo, James Brooke and his descendants established a colonial dynasty. They eradicated headhunting in the hundred years before World War II. Before Brooke's arrival, the Iban had migrated from the middle Kapuas region into the upper Batang Lupar river region by fighting and displacing the small existing tribes, such as the Seru and Bukitan. Another successful migration by the Iban was from the Saribas region into the Kanowit area in the middle of the Batang Rajang river, led by the famous Mujah, Buah Raya. They fought and displaced such tribes as the Kanowit and Baketan.\n\nBrooke first encountered the headhunting Iban of the Saribas-Skrang in Sarawak at the Battle of Betting Maru in 1849. He gained the signing of the Saribas Treaty with the Iban chief of that region, who was named Orang Kaya Pemancha Dana \"Bayang\". Subsequently, the Brooke dynasty expanded their territory from the first small Sarawak region to the present-day state of Sarawak. They enlisted the Malay, Iban, and other natives as a large but unpaid force to crush and pacify any rebellions in the states. The Brooke government prohibited headhunting (\"ngayau\" in Iban language) and added penalties for disobeying the Rajah-led government decree. During expeditions sanctioned by the Brooke government, they allowed headhunting. The natives who participated in Brooke-approved punitive expeditions were exempted from paying annual tax to the Brooke government and/or given new territories in return for their service. There were intra-tribal and intertribal headhunting.\n\nThe most famous Iban warrior to resist the colonial Brooke government was Libau \"Rentap\". The Brooke government had to send three punitive expeditions in order to defeat Rentapi at his fortress on the top of Sadok Hill.\n\nThe Iban conducted a third major migration, from upper Batang Ai region in the Batang Lupar region into Katibas and onward to Baleh/Mujong region in the upper Batang Rajang region. They displaced the existing tribes of the Kayan, Kajang, Ukit, etc. The Brooke government sanctioned the last migrations of the Iban, and reduced fighting to a minimum. The Iban conducted sacred ritual ceremonies with special and complex incantations to invoke god's blessings, which were associated with headhunting. An example was the Bird Festival in the Saribas/Skrang region and Proper Festival in the Baleh region, both required for men of the tribes to become effective warriors.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation during the Second World War, headhunting was revived among the natives. The Sukarno-led Indonesian forces fought against the formation of the Federation of Malaysia. Forces of Malaya, Singapore, Sabah and Sarawak fought in addition, and headhunting was observed during the communist insurgency in Sarawak and what was then Malaya. The Iban were noted for headhunting, and were later recognised as good rangers and trackers during military operations, during which they were awarded fourteen medals of valour and honour.\n\nSince 1997 serious inter-ethnic violence has erupted on the island of Kalimantan, involving the indigenous Dayak peoples and immigrants from the island of Madura. Events have included the Sambas riots and Sampit conflict. In 2001 during the Sampit conflict in the Central Kalimantan town of Sampit, at least 500 Madurese were killed and up to 100,000 Madurese were forced to flee. Some Madurese bodies were decapitated in a ritual reminiscent of the Dayak headhunting tradition.\n\nThe Ambonese, a tribe of mixed Malay-Papuan origin living in the Moluccas, were fierce headhunters until the Dutch colonial rule in Indonesia suppressed the practice.\n\nIn what is now known as New Zealand, the Māori preserved the heads of enemies in a form known as \"mokomokai.\" They removed the brain and eyes, and smoked the head. The heads were sold to European collectors in the late 1800s, in some instances having been commissioned and 'made to order.' Currently the Māori are attempting to reclaim the heads of their own ancestors held in museums outside New Zealand. Twenty heads were returned to them by French authorities in January 2012, repatriated from museums.\n\nDuring the Spring and Autumn period and Warring States period, Qin soldiers frequently collected their enemies' heads. Most of the soldiers were conscripted serfs and were not paid. Instead, the soldiers earned promotions and rewards from superiors by collecting the heads of enemies, a type of body count. In this area, authorities displayed heads of executed criminals in public spaces up to the 20th century.\n\nTom O'Neill wrote: \nSamurai also sought glory by headhunting. When a battle ended, the warrior, true to his mercenary origins, would ceremoniously present trophy heads to a general, who would variously reward him with promotions in rank, gold or silver, or land from the defeated clan. Generals displayed the heads of defeated rivals in public squares.\n\nHeadhunting was a common practice among Taiwanese aborigines. All tribes practised headhunting except the Yami people, who were previously isolated on Orchid Island, and the Ivatan people. It was associated with the peoples of the Philippines.\n\nTaiwanese Plains Aborigines, Taiwanese people (Han) and Japanese settlers were choice victims of headhunting raids by Taiwanese Mountain Aborigines. The latter two groups were considered invaders, liars, and enemies. A headhunting raid would often strike at workers in the fields or set a dwelling on fire, and then kill and behead those who fled from the burning structure. The practice continued during the Japanese occupation of Taiwan, but ended in the 1930s due to suppression by the colonial Japanese government.\nThe Taiwanese Aboriginal tribes, who were allied with the Dutch against the Chinese during the Guo Huaiyi Rebellion in 1652, turned against the Dutch in turn during the Siege of Fort Zeelandia. They defected to Koxinga's Chinese forces. The Aboriginals (Formosans) of Sincan defected to Koxinga after he offered them amnesty. The Sincan Aboriginals fought for the Chinese and beheaded Dutch people in executions. The frontier aboriginals in the mountains and plains also surrendered and defected to the Chinese on May 17, 1661, celebrating their freedom from compulsory education under Dutch rule. They hunted down Dutch people, beheading them and trashing their Christian school textbooks.\nAt the Battle of Tamsui in the Keelung Campaign during the Sino-French War on 8 October 1884, the Chinese took prisoners and beheaded 11 French marines who were injured, in addition to \"La Gailissonniere's\" captain Fontaine. The heads were mounted on bamboo poles and displayed to incite anti-French feelings. In China pictures of the beheading of the Frenchmen were published in the \"Tien-shih-tsai Pictorial Journal\" in Shanghai.\n\nHan and Taiwanese Aboriginals revolted against the Japanese in the Beipu Uprising in 1907 and Tapani Incident in 1915. The Seediq aboriginals revolted against the Japanese in the 1930 Wushe Incident and resurrected the practice of headhunting, beheading Japanese during the revolt.\n\nHeadhunting has been a practice among the Mizo and the Naga tribes of India, Bangladesh and Myanmar till the 19th century. The practice may have been common up to the 20th century and may still be practised in isolated Naga tribes of India and Myanmar.\n\nSeveral tribes of the Jivaroan group, including the Shuar in Eastern Ecuador and Northern Peru, along the rivers Chinchipe, Bobonaza, Morona, Upano, and Pastaza, main tributaries of the Amazon, practised headhunting for trophies. The heads were shrunk, and were known locally as \"Tzan-Tzas\". The people believed that the head housed the soul of the person killed.\n\nIn the 21st century, the Shuar produce Tzan-tza replicas. They use their traditional process on heads of monkeys and sloths, selling the items to tourists. It is believed that splinter groups in the local tribes continue with these practises when there is a tribal feud over territory or as revenge for a crime of passion. \n\nThe Quechua Lamista in Peru used to be headhunters.\n\nA \"tzompantli\" is a type of wooden rack or palisade documented in several Mesoamerican civilizations. It was used for the public display of human skulls, typically those of war captives or other sacrificial victims.\n\nA tzompantli-type structure has been excavated at the La Coyotera, Oaxaca, site. It is dated to the Proto-Classic Zapotec civilization, which flourished from c. 2nd century BCE to the 3rd century CE. \"Tzompantli\" are also noted in other Mesoamerican pre-Columbian cultures, such as the Toltec and Mixtec.\n\nBased on numbers given by the conquistador Andrés de Tapia and Fray Diego Durán, Bernard Ortiz de Montellano has calculated in the late 20th century that there were at most 60,000 skulls on the \"Hueyi Tzompantli\" (great Skullrack) of Tenochtitlan. There were at least five more skullracks in Tenochtitlan, but, by all accounts, they were much smaller.\n\nOther examples are indicated from Maya civilization sites. A particularly fine and intact inscription example survives at the extensive Chichen Itza site.\n\nThe Celts of Europe practised headhunting as the head was believed to house a person's soul. Ancient Romans and Greeks recorded the Celts' habits of nailing heads of personal enemies to walls or dangling them from the necks of horses. Headhunting was still practised for a great deal longer by the Celtic Gaels. In the \"Ulster Cycle,\" Cúchulainn is described as beheading the three sons of Nechtan and mounting their heads on his chariot. This is believed to have been a traditional warrior, rather than religious, practice. The practice continued approximately to the end of the Middle Ages in Ireland and the Anglo-Scottish marches. The religious reasons for collecting heads were likely lost after the Celts' conversion to Christianity. Heads were also taken among the Germanic tribes and among Iberians, but the purpose is unknown.\n\nThe Scythians were excellent horsemen. Ancient Greek historian Herodotus wrote that some of their tribes practised human sacrifice, drinking the blood of victims, scalping their enemies, and drinking wine from the enemies' skulls.\n\nThe Montenegrins are an ethnic group in Southeastern Europe who are centered around the Dinaric mountains. They practiced headhunting until 1876, allegedly carrying the head from a lock of hair grown specifically for that purpose.\nIn the 1830s, Montenegrin ruler Petar II Petrović-Njegoš started building a tower called \"Tablja\" above Cetinje Monastery. The tower was never finished, and Montenegrins used it to display Turkish heads taken in battle, as they were in frequent conflict with the Ottoman Empire. In 1876 King Nicholas I of Montenegro ordered that the practise should end. He knew that European diplomats considered it to be barbaric. The \"Tablja\" was demolished in 1937.\n\nOttoman Turks are alleged to have taken heads of the Montenegrins, when they came into conflict.\n\nDuring World War II, Allied (specifically including American) troops occasionally collected the skulls of dead Japanese as personal trophies, as souvenirs for friends and family at home, and for sale to others. (The practice was unique to the Pacific theater; United States forces did not take skulls of German and Italian soldiers.) In September 1942, the Commander in Chief of the Pacific Fleet mandated strong disciplinary action against any soldier who took enemy body parts as souvenirs. But such trophy-hunting persisted: \"Life\" published a photograph in its issue of May 22, 1944, of a young woman posing with the autographed skull sent to her by her Navy boyfriend. There was public outrage in the US in response.\n\nHistorians have suggested that the practice related to Americans viewing the Japanese as lesser people and in response to mutilation and torture of American dead. In Borneo, retaliation by natives against the Japanese was based on atrocities having been committed by the Japanese Army in that area. Following their ill treatment by the Japanese, the Dayak of Borneo formed a force to help the Allies. Australian and British special operatives of Z Special Unit developed some of the inland Dayak tribesmen into a thousand-man headhunting army. This army of tribesmen killed or captured some 1,500 Japanese soldiers.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, some US soldiers engaged in the taking of \"trophy skulls\".\n\nIn 2010, a Gurkha soldier beheaded a supposed Taliban leader and took it from the battlefield to base for identification.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11843612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11843612", "title": "Instant Physics", "text": "Instant Physics\n\nInstant Physics (full title: Instant Physics: From Aristotle to Einstein, and Beyond) is a book by Tony Rothman first published by Fawcett Columbine in 1995. The book, meant for readers with a minimal amount of mathematical training, consists of ten chapters that cover most of the essential topics in physics, from classical mechanics and thermodynamics to nuclear physics, general relativity, and quantum mechanics. It has proven very popular with the public and as of 2017 remains in print.\n"}
{"id": "46906118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46906118", "title": "Jakob Benjamin Fischer", "text": "Jakob Benjamin Fischer\n\nJakob Benjamin Fischer (13 October 1731–25 July 1793) was a Baltic German naturalist and apothecary.\n\nJakob Benjamin Fischer was born in Riga and studied to become an apothecary there. Between 1756 and 1758, he studied natural sciences, physics and chemistry in Copenhagen and in 1761 he went to Uppsala and studied botany and zoology under Carl von Linné. He then moved back to Riga and run a pharmacy in the city. He also engaged in studies of the natural environment of present-day Latvia, and produced several works on the nature of Latvia in which he also referred to the native Latvian names of plants and animals. The most important of his works, \"Versuch einer Naturgeschichte von Liefland\", is one the earliest descriptions of the nature of Livonia.\n"}
{"id": "36659792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36659792", "title": "Kamerlingh Onnes Award", "text": "Kamerlingh Onnes Award\n\nThe Kamerlingh Onnes Award is in recognition of special merits of scientists active in the field of refrigeration technology, cryogenics and more generally low-temperature science and technology. It was founded in 1948 by the Royal Dutch Association of Refrigeration (Koninklijke Nederlandse Vereniging voor Koude, KNVvK) The name of the award is intended to keep the memory of Heike Kamerlingh Onnes alive. The award is assigned typically every four years and the winners get a golden medal and a certificate.\n\n"}
{"id": "18328075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18328075", "title": "Kazimierz Boratyński", "text": "Kazimierz Boratyński\n\nKazimierz Boratyński (born July 30, 1906 in Gródek – December 8, 1991 in Wrocław) was a Polish chemist.\n\n"}
{"id": "3260094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3260094", "title": "List of Jewish American biologists and physicians", "text": "List of Jewish American biologists and physicians\n\n\"This is a list of famous Jewish American biologists and physicians. For other famous Jewish Americans, see List of Jewish Americans.\"\n\nshazi annar list of biologist"}
{"id": "11506458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11506458", "title": "List of Nigerian scientists and scholars", "text": "List of Nigerian scientists and scholars\n\nThis is a list of Nigerian scientists and scholars. Nigeria is\na federal constitutional republic comprising 36 states and its Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The country is located in West Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17476231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17476231", "title": "List of Remarkable Gardens of France", "text": "List of Remarkable Gardens of France\n\nThe Remarkable Gardens of France is intended to be a list and description, by region, of the more than three hundred gardens classified as \"Jardins remarquables\" by the French Ministry of Culture and the Comité des Parcs et Jardins de France. The complete list of gardens can be found on: site of the Comité des Parcs et Jardins.\n\n\n\n\n(see photos)\n\n(see photos)\n\n\n(see photos)\n\n(See photos)\n\n(see photos)\n\n(see photos)\n\n(see pictures)\n\n(see photos)\n\nIssoire - The Gardens of the Château d'Hauterive were originally part of the domaine of the Abbey of Issoire, founded in the 10th century. The present buildings date to the late 17th century; documents and old watercolors show that the gardens existed in 1680–1691, with much the same plan as today. The gardens are a classical composition of lawns, avenues, eight parterres around a central basin, hedges, and small groves of trees. Flowers include peonies, irises, lilies, delphiniums, sage, lupins and dahlias. The gardens were badly damaged in the storm of December 1999, when 500 to 700 trees were uprooted or broken. The gardens are being restored.\n\n(see photos)\n\n(see photos)\n\n(see photos)\n\n\n(see photos)\n\n\nA pastoral garden created in the mid-19th century, around a small château and a hamlet of farm buildings. The garden features many trees planted in 1850, including a double alley of giant sequoias; a grove of Cedar of Lebanon; Copper beeches, ash trees and tulip trees; as well as beds of wisterias, roses, hortensias, alleys of pink peonies and blue irises; lavender; a medicinal herb garden; magnolias, rhododendrons, and a carpet of heather. (See photos)\n\nAn English landscape park, a classic French garden, and a modern garden of fountains and basins are placed between a medieval château and a busy canal. The garden has an orangerie with rows of fruit trees and hedges beside the canal; a traditional kitchen garden; and boxwood hedges sculpted into shapes like flocks of sheep. (see photos)\n\nA site of an old iron forge, dating from 1660 and 1820, beside the river Nièvre, restored in 1981–1990 and turned into gardens. They feature an English landscape garden, a kitchen garden, flower beds, and many monumental old trees, including a two hundred and fifty year old plane tree.\n\nThe original gardens had been completely abandoned, and were recreated beginning in 1994 following the inspiration of the 17th century and 18th century gardens of the school of Le Nôtre. The garden is laid out in three terraces; the first terrace contains two lawns with sculpted yew trees at the angles; the second has a secret garden, with boxwood hedges, old roses, and a palisaded fig tree; and the third is divided into flower beds and lawns separated by pallisades and rows of fruit trees.\n\nA private garden of one hectare in the English and contemporary styles, created beginning in 2000 by a couple passionate about gardening, which takes perfect advantage of its hilly site. The wooded portions contain twenty varieties of maple, 10 varieties of birch, and oak, conifers, beech, and hornbeam. Bushes and flowers include hydrangeas, dogwood, dahlias and three hundred varieties of roses.\n\nThe château was built in the 17th century, rebuilt in the 19th century, then restored in the 20th century to the way it looked in the 18th century. The gardens, in the French style, feature squares of white and pink roses and lavender; large terraces of flower beds; a fountain with statues by Jean de Bologne from the fountain of Neptune in Florence; a long perspective; a folly called \"The Tower of the Demoiselles\"; and an elliptical rose garden, with over 1300 rosebushes in pastel colors around a basin.\n\nThe present château and gardens in the French style were created in the 18th century, and restored in the 20th century. Parts of château date to the 16th century. The principal feature of the garden is a grand avenue from the gate to the château lined by yew trees shaped into cones, alternating with statues and vases. There are two secondary avenues of double rows of linden trees. The gardens also feature a large rectangle of chestnut trees providing shade, and avenues of hornbeam hedges 350 metres long on the west and south.\n\n\nThe 18th century château is set in a French garden and a 35-hectare English landscape park, designed by the architect Veringuet. A notable feature is the neo-classical greenhouse, built in the 1830s. The French garden has boxed palm trees and orange trees carved into the shape of half-domes and colombiers, copying the shape of the domes of the château. The English landscape park has four km of avenues, a variety of forest trees and exotic ornamental trees, a lake, a river and a grotto. The flower garden next to the greenhouse was redesigned in the 1920s by landscape architect Achille Duchêne, and the kitchen garden occupies the place of the former cemetery of the convent of the Brothers of Picpus, from the 18th century.\n\n\nThe château and gardens date to the 18th and 19th centuries, and combine elements of an English park forested avenues and giant sequoias, with a classical 18th century French garden (a kitchen garden, fruit trees, a grand avenue leading to the house, an ornamental forecourt and flower beds.)\n\n\nA contemporary botanical garden with five themes; an ethnobotanic garden, with historical plants useful to mankind; the Garden of Charlemagne, with plants which the Emperor Charlemagne decreed be planted at every monastery in the Empire, as well as plants imported from the Americas (corn, tomatoes, potatoes); The garden of acclimatization, with new, unusual and forgotten kinds of plants; the garden of scents, with wide variety of aromatic plants, and a tunnel of roses, jasmine and clematis; and an aquatic garden, with both local aquatic plants and exotic water plants, such as water lilies, lotus and papyrus of the Nile.\n\nThe park was originally the domaine of the Jean-Baptiste Lambert, the treasurer of the superintendent of finances of Louis XIV, who built a château there around 1641, and who commissioned Le Nôtre to design the gardens. The château was destroyed during the French Revolution of 1789. The park was purchased in 1843 by Pierre Carlier, the Chief of the French Police from 1849 to 1851, who helped organize the coup d'état of Louis Napoléon Bonaparte in 1852. He re-created the garden as it is today, with canals, a stream and cascade, hedges, roses, plane trees, fruit trees and flower beds.\n\n\nA contemporary garden, inspired by medieval gardens, overlooking the estuary of the Trieux River. The centerpiece is a great oak, 350 years old, in the courtyard of the château. The garden features a medieval kitchen garden; a medicinal garden, a medieval flower garden; an avenue of camellias, with one thousand plants of 350 varieties; palm trees; a rose garden; jasmine, wisterias, grapevines, and an alley of pergolas with honeysuckle.\n\n\nA romantic English garden and botanical garden, created in 1965. It includes basins, cascades and a water staircase; Italian terraces; and a fine collection of magnolias, camellias, rhododendrons, and plants of Australia, New Zealand and the Mediterranean.(see photos)\n\n(see photos)\n\n(See photos)\nThe château is best known for its flower gardens, on the esplanade by the château and the stables. It also has an English-style park, fountains, sculpture and a cascade, all recently restored.\n\n(see photos)\n\n(see photos)\n\n\nThe botanical park is made up of 24 gardens and three parts : the Arcadia' gardens that refer to classical antiquity and recall the youth, the romantic gardens represent maturity and plenitude, the twilight' gardens offer a timeless composition which represents the old age. The gardens have over seven thousand varieties of plants, particularly those that grow well in an acid soil, including camellias, magnolias, rhododendrons and hydrangeas. The four hundred camellias reach their peak around 20 March, while the azaleas flower in April.\n\n\n(see pictures)\n\n\n\n\n\nThe château has a park of eighty hectares, which include a landscape garden, an arboretum, large greenhouses, and a formal French garden. The château and the park were used as sets for scenes of the film \"Colonel Chabert\" with Gérard Depardieu and Fanny Ardant(see photos)\n\n\n(see photos)\n\n(See photos)\n\n\n\n\n(See photos)\n\n(see Photos)\n\n(See Photos)\n\n(see pictures)\n\n(see photos)\n\n(See Pictures)\n\n\n(See photos)\n\n(see photos)\n\nSee photos\nSee photos\n\nSee Photos\n\nSee Photos\n\n\n(See photos)\n\n(see Photos)\n\n\nSee Photos\n\n\n\nsee photos\n\n\nSee photos\n\n\n(photos and more information)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34229832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34229832", "title": "List of SIMILE projects", "text": "List of SIMILE projects\n\nThe following is a list of SIMILE projects.\n\nThe SIMILE tools assist in the storage, querying, transformation and mapping of very large collections of RDF data. The tools developed within SIMILE are meant to allow people who are not Semantic Web developers to create ontologies which describe their specialized metadata, create RDF and convert other types of metadata into RDF. These open source tools are designed to be scalable and provide for cross-community sharing of metadata at low cost.\n\nLongwell is a faceted browser which enables the user to visualize and browse any RDF data set, allowing the user to quickly build a user-friendly web site out of the RDF data without requiring the user to write any RDF code. Facets are metadata fields considered important for a given data set. In its default configuration, the collection of facets is returned along the right-hand side of the page, and clicking on any facet causes the refinement of facets in relation to the data retrieved. Longwell then displays only the subset of the data which meet those restrictions. This appears on the left-hand side of the page. Previously selected restrictions can be removed, which causes a broadening of the subset of items displayed.\n\nPiggy Bank is a Firefox extension which enables the user to collect information from the Web, save it for future use, tag it with keywords, search and browse information collected, retrieve saved information, share collected information and install screen scrapers. Piggy Bank gathers RDF data where it is available, and where it is not available, it generates it from HTML by using screen scrapers. This incremental approach to the realization of the Semantic Web vision allows the user to save and tag information gathered from web pages without having to cut, paste and label the various products of their browsing. By clicking on the keyword they have used to tag particular types of item, the user can view all of those items together within her browser, without having to open other applications. Users can also deposit saved data in the Semantic Bank, where other users can browse it and add their own contributions. This pooling of keywords underlies services such as Flickr and del.icio.us, where communities can collaborate to build a taxonomy for shared data. These taxonomies, which emerge as information is accumulated, are known as folksonomies.\n\nSolvent is a Firefox extension that enables the user to write screen scrapers for Piggy Bank.\n\nGadget is an XML inspector which enables the user to condense large amounts of well-formed XML data.\n\nWelkin is a graph-based RDF visualizer. It graphs RDF data sets, allowing the user to visualize the global shape and clustering characteristics of the data, which can aid them in mentally modeling it, seeing how it connects and identifying mappings between the set and possible ontologies. A particular data cluster which stands out when graphed might well be missed when browsed at closer range.\n\nFresnel is a vocabulary for specifying how RDF graphs are presented. Fresnel addresses the problem that currently, each RDF browser and visualization tool decides, on an ad hoc basis, what information in an RDF graph is presented and how to present it. Fresnel uses the concepts of lenses and formats. Lenses determine which properties are displayed and how they are ordered. Formats control how resources and properties are presented.\n\nTimeline is a tool for visualizing events over time. It can be populated by pointing it at an XML file\n\nExhibit is technology that enables developers to provide browsing of faceted classifications in a web browser.\n\nReferee is a program that crawls the links that point to its user's pages. It extracts metadata from those pages and the text around the links that pointed to its user's pages, converting it, if need be, into RDF format. Referee discriminates between the pages that refer to the user's pages and the comments, meaning the text immediately surrounding the link. It generates a data graph, allowing it to display the fact that, for example, exactly the same comment in relation to its user's pages appears on more than one page, which is the container of the comment. A page can have more than one comment, and a comment can appear on more than one page. This can be illustrated in a data graph, but would not be possible with a data tree, such as is generated by the XML data model.\n\nThe RDFizer project is a directory of tools for converting various data formats into RDF. MIT Libraries provides a home for some of these tools. RDFizers are a group of tools that allows the transformation of existing data into an RDF representation. Given a database of interest, these tools can often - when the data formats are highly structured -convert the data into an RDF representation without human intervention, first determining what ontology to use to express the information. Where semantic relationships are implicit, the RDFizers will not be as successful without human input. \nThe SIMILE project has built RDFizers that convert from the following formats: \n\nCrowbar is a web scraping environment based on the use of a server-side headless Mozilla-based browser. It is used as a research prototype to investigate how to enable the running of Piggy Bank Javascript scrapers from the command line and thus automate web site scraping.\n"}
{"id": "33485966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33485966", "title": "List of dopaminergic drugs", "text": "List of dopaminergic drugs\n\nThis is a list of dopaminergic drugs. These are pharmaceutical drugs, naturally occurring compounds and other chemicals that influence the function of the neurotransmitter dopamine.\n\n\"Adamantanes\": Amantadine •\nMemantine •\nRimantadine\n\n\"Aminotetralins\": 7-OH-DPAT •\n8-OH-PBZI •\nRotigotine •\nUH-232\n\n\"Benzazepines\": 6-Br-APB •\nFenoldopam •\nSKF-38,393 •\nSKF-77,434 •\nSKF-81,297 •\nSKF-82,958 •\nSKF-83,959\n\n\"Ergolines\": Bromocriptine •\nCabergoline •\nDihydroergocryptine •\nLisuride •\nLysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) •\nPergolide\n\n\"Dihydrexidine derivatives\": 2-OH-NPA •\nA-86,929 •\nCiladopa •\nDihydrexidine •\nDinapsoline •\nDinoxyline •\nDoxanthrine\n\n\"Others\": A-68,930 •\nA-77,636 •\nA-412,997 •\nABT-670 •\nABT-724 •\nAplindore •\nApomorphine •\nAripiprazole •\nBifeprunox •\nBP-897 •\nCY-208,243 •\nDizocilpine •\nEtilevodopa •\nFlibanserin •\nKetamine •\nMelevodopa •\nModafinil •\nPardoprunox •\nPhencyclidine •\nPD-128,907 •\nPD-168,077 •\nPF-219,061 •\nPiribedil •\nPramipexole •\nPropylnorapomorphine •\nPukateine •\nQuinagolide •\nQuinelorane •\nQuinpirole •\nRDS-127 •\nRo10-5824 •\nRopinirole •\nRotigotine •\nRoxindole •\nSalvinorin A •\nSKF-89,145 •\nSumanirole •\nTerguride •\nUmespirone •\nWAY-100,635\n\n\"Typical antipsychotics\": Acepromazine •\nAzaperone •\nBenperidol •\nBromperidol •\nClopenthixol •\nChlorpromazine •\nChlorprothixene •\nDroperidol •\nFlupentixol •\nFluphenazine •\nFluspirilene •\nHaloperidol •\nLoxapine •\nMesoridazine •\nMethotrimeprazine •\nNemonapride •\nPenfluridol •\nPerazine •\nPericiazine •\nPerphenazine •\nPimozide •\nProchlorperazine •\nPromazine •\nSulforidazine •\nSulpiride •\nSultopride •\nThioridazine •\nThiothixene •\nTrifluoperazine •\nTriflupromazine •\nTrifluperidol •\nZuclopenthixol\n\n\"Atypical antipsychotics\": Amisulpride •\nAsenapine •\nBlonanserin •\nCariprazine •\nCarpipramine •\nClocapramine •\nClozapine •\nGevotroline •\nIloperidone •\nLurasidone •\nMelperone •\nMolindone •\nMosapramine •\nOcaperidone •\nOlanzapine •\nPaliperidone •\nPerospirone •\nPiquindone •\nQuetiapine •\nRemoxipride •\nRisperidone •\nSertindole •\nTiospirone •\nZiprasidone •\nZotepine\n\n\"Antiemetics\": AS-8112 •\nAlizapride •\nBromopride •\nClebopride •\nDomperidone •\nMetoclopramide •\nThiethylperazine\n\n\"Others\": Amoxapine •\nBuspirone •\nButaclamol •\nEcopipam •\nN-Ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) •\nEticlopride •\nFananserin •\nL-745,870 •\nNafadotride •\nNuciferine •\nPNU-99,194 •\nRaclopride •\nSarizotan •\nSB-277,011-A •\nSCH-23,390 •\nSKF-83,566 •\nSKF-83,959 •\nSonepiprazole •\nSpiperone •\nSpiroxatrine •\nStepholidine •\nTetrahydropalmatine •\nTiapride •\nUH-232 •\nYohimbine\n\n\"Piperazines\": DBL-583 •\nGBR-12,935 •\nNefazodone •\nVanoxerine\n\n\"Piperidines\": 1-(1-(1-Benzothiophen-2-yl)cyclohexyl)piperidine (BTCP) •\nDesoxypipradrol •\nDextromethylphenidate •\nDifemetorex •\nEthylphenidate •\nMethylnaphthidate •\nIsopropylphenidate •\nMethylphenidate •\nPhencyclidine •\nPipradrol\n\n\"Pyrrolidines\": Diphenylprolinol •\nMethylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV) •\nNaphyrone •\nProlintane •\nPyrovalerone\n\n\"Tropanes\": 3β-(4'-Chlorophenyl)-2β-(3'-phenylisoxazol-5'-yl)tropane (β-CPPIT) •\nAltropane •\nBrasofensine •\nWIN 35428 (β-CFT) •\nCocaine •\nDichloropane •\nDifluoropine •\nN-(2'-Fluoroethyl-)-3β-(4'-chlorophenyl)-2β-(3'-phenylisoxazol-5'-yl)nortropane (FE-β-CPPIT) •\nN-(3'-Fluoropropyl-)-3β-(4'-chlorophenyl)-2β-(3'-phenylisoxazol-5'-yl)nortropane (FP-β-CPPIT) •\nIoflupane (I) •\nIometopane •\nRTI-112 •\nRTI-113 •\nRTI-121 •\nRTI-126 •\nRTI-150 •\nRTI-177 •\nRTI-229 •\nRTI-336 •\nTenocyclidine •\nTesofensine •\nTroparil •\nTropoxane •\n2β-Propanoyl-3β-(4-tolyl)-tropane (WF-11) •\n2β-Propanoyl-3β-(2-naphthyl)-tropane (WF-23) •\n2-Propanoyl-3-(4-isopropylphenyl)-tropane (WF-31) •\n2α-(Propanoyl)-3β-(2-(6-methoxynaphthyl))-tropane (WF-33)\n\n\"Others\": Adrafinil •\nArmodafinil •\nAmfonelic acid •\nAmineptine •\nBenzatropine (benztropine) •\nBromantane •\n2-Butyl-3-(p-tolyl)quinuclidine (BTQ) •\nBTS-74,398 •\nBupropion (amfebutamone) •\nCiclazindol •\nDiclofensine •\nDimethocaine •\nDiphenylpyraline •\nDizocilpine •\nDOV-102,677 •\nDOV-21,947 •\nDOV-216,303 •\nEtybenzatropine (ethylbenztropine) •\nEXP-561 •\nFencamine •\nFencamfamine •\nFezolamine •\nGYKI-52,895 •\nHydrafinil •\nIndatraline •\nKetamine •\nLefetamine •\nLevophacetoperane •\nLR-5182 •\nManifaxine •\nMazindol •\nMedifoxamine •\nMesocarb •\nModafinil •\nNefopam •\nNomifensine •\nNS-2359 •\nO-2172 •\nPridefrine •\nPropylamphetamine •\nRadafaxine •\nSEP-225,289 •\nSEP-227,162 •\nSertraline •\nSibutramine •\nTametraline •\nTripelennamine\n\nDeserpidine •\nIbogaine •\nReserpine •\nTetrabenazine\n\n\"Morpholines\": Fenbutrazate •\nMorazone •\nPhendimetrazine •\nPhenmetrazine\n\n\"Oxazolines\": 4-Methylaminorex (4-MAR, 4-MAX) •\nAminorex •\nClominorex •\nCyclazodone •\nFenozolone •\nFluminorex •\nPemoline •\nThozalinone\n\n\"Phenethylamines\" (also \"amphetamines\", \"cathinones\", \"phentermines\", etc.): 2-Hydroxyphenethylamine (2-OH-PEA) •\n4-Chlorophenylisobutylamine (4-CAB) •\n4-Methylamphetamine (4-MA) •\n4-Methylmethamphetamine (4-MMA) •\nAlfetamine •\nAmfecloral •\nAmfepentorex •\nAmfepramone •\nAmphetamine (dextroamphetamine, levoamphetamine) •\nAmphetaminil •\nβ-Methylphenethylamine (β-Me-PEA) •\nBenzodioxolylbutanamine (BDB) •\nBenzodioxolylhydroxybutanamine (BOH) •\nBenzphetamine •\nBuphedrone •\nButylone •\nCathine •\nCathinone •\nClobenzorex •\nClortermine •\nD-Deprenyl •\nDimethoxyamphetamine (DMA) •\nDimethoxymethamphetamine (DMMA) •\nDimethylamphetamine •\nDimethylcathinone (dimethylpropion, metamfepramone) •\nEthcathinone (ethylpropion) •\nEthylamphetamine •\nEthylbenzodioxolylbutanamine (EBDB) •\nEthylone •\nFamprofazone •\nFenethylline •\nFenproporex •\nFlephedrone •\nFludorex •\nFurfenorex •\nHordenine •\nLophophine (homomyristicylamine) •\nMefenorex •\nMephedrone •\nMethamphetamine (desoxyephedrine, methedrine; dextromethamphetamine, levomethamphetamine) •\nMethcathinone (methylpropion) •\nMethedrone •\nMethoxymethylenedioxyamphetamine (MMDA) •\nMethoxymethylenedioxymethamphetamine (MMDMA) •\nMethylbenzodioxolylbutanamine (MBDB) •\nMethylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA, tenamfetamine) •\nMethylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDEA) •\nMethylenedioxyhydroxyamphetamine (MDOH) •\nMethylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) •\nMethylenedioxymethylphenethylamine (MDMPEA, homarylamine) •\nMethylenedioxyphenethylamine (MDPEA, homopiperonylamine) •\nMethylone •\nOrtetamine •\nParabromoamphetamine (PBA) •\nParachloroamphetamine (PCA) •\nParafluoroamphetamine (PFA) •\nParafluoromethamphetamine (PFMA) •\nParahydroxyamphetamine (PHA) •\nParaiodoamphetamine (PIA) •\nParedrine (norpholedrine, oxamphetamine) •\nPhenethylamine (PEA) •\nPholedrine •\nPhenpromethamine •\nPrenylamine •\nPropylamphetamine •\nTiflorex (flutiorex) •\nTyramine (TRA) •\nXylopropamine •\nZylofuramine\n\n\"Piperazines\": 2,5-Dimethoxy-4-bromobenzylpiperazine (2C-B-BZP) •\nBenzylpiperazine (BZP) •\nMethoxyphenylpiperazine (MeOPP, paraperazine) •\nMethylbenzylpiperazine (MBZP) •\nMethylenedioxybenzylpiperazine (MDBZP, piperonylpiperazine)\n\n\"Others\": 2-Amino-1,2-dihydronaphthalene (2-ADN) •\n2-Aminoindane (2-AI) •\n2-Aminotetralin (2-AT) •\n4-Benzylpiperidine (4-BP) •\n5-Iodo-2-aminoindane (5-IAI) •\nClofenciclan •\nCyclopentamine •\nCypenamine •\nCyprodenate •\nFeprosidnine •\nGilutensin •\nHeptaminol •\nHexacyclonate •\nIndanylaminopropane (IAP) •\nIndanorex •\nIsometheptene •\nMethylhexanamine •\nNaphthylaminopropane (NAP) •\nOctodrine •\nPhthalimidopropiophenone •\nPropylhexedrine (levopropylhexedrine) •\nTuaminoheptane (tuamine)\n\n3,4-Dihydroxystyrene\n\n3-Iodotyrosine •\nAquayamycin •\nBulbocapnine •\nMetirosine •\nOudenone\n\nBenserazide •\nCarbidopa •\nGenistein •\nMethyldopa\n\n\"Nonselective\": Benmoxin •\nCaroxazone •\nEchinopsidine •\nFurazolidone •\nHydralazine •\nIndantadol •\nIproclozide •\nIproniazid •\nIsocarboxazid •\nIsoniazid •\nLinezolid •\nMebanazine •\nMetfendrazine •\nNialamide •\nOctamoxin •\nParaxazone •\nPhenelzine •\nPheniprazine •\nPhenoxypropazine •\nPivalylbenzhydrazine •\nProcarbazine •\nSafrazine •\nTranylcypromine\n\n\"MAO-A selective\": Amiflamine •\nBazinaprine •\nBefloxatone •\nBefol •\nBrofaromine •\nCimoxatone •\nClorgiline •\nEsuprone •\nHarmala alkaloids (harmine, harmaline, tetrahydroharmine, harman, norharman, etc.) •\nMethylene blue •\nMetralindole •\nMinaprine •\nMoclobemide •\nPirlindole •\nSercloremine •\nTetrindole •\nToloxatone •\nTyrima\n\n\"MAO-B selective\": D-Deprenyl •\nSelegiline (L-deprenyl) •\nLadostigil •\nLazabemide •\nMilacemide •\nMofegiline •\nPargyline •\nRasagiline •\nSafinamide\n\nEntacapone •\nNitecapone •\nOpicapone •\nTolcapone\n\nBupicomide •\nDisulfiram •\nDopastin •\nFusaric acid •\nNepicastat •\nPhenopicolinic acid •\nTropolone\n\nL-Phenylalanine → L-tyrosine → L-DOPA (levodopa)\n\nFerrous iron (Fe) •\nTetrahydrobiopterin •\nVitamin B (niacin, nicotinamide → NADPH) •\nVitamin B (pyridoxine, pyridoxamine, pyridoxal → pyridoxal phosphate) •\nVitamin B (folic acid → tetrahydrofolic acid) •\nVitamin C (ascorbic acid) •\nZinc (Zn)\n\nBenzofuranylpropylaminopentane (BPAP) •\nPhenylpropylaminopentane (PPAP) •\nSelegiline (L-deprenyl)\n\nOxidopamine (6-hydroxydopamine)\n\nXP21279\n"}
{"id": "19081514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19081514", "title": "List of examples of Stigler's law", "text": "List of examples of Stigler's law\n\nStigler's law concerns the supposed tendency of eponymous expressions for scientific discoveries to honor people other than their respective originators.\n\nExamples include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37742", "title": "List of political theorists", "text": "List of political theorists\n\nA political theorist is someone who engages in constructing or evaluating political theory, including political philosophy. Theorists may be academics or independent scholars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7120197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7120197", "title": "List of volcanoes in Russia", "text": "List of volcanoes in Russia\n\nThis is a list of active and extinct volcanoes in Russia.\n\nVolcanoes of the Kamchatka Peninsula of the northwestern Pacific Ocean and the Russian Far East.\n\nVolcanoes of the Kuril Islands, in the northwestern Pacific Ocean between the Kamchatka Peninsula and Japan.\n"}
{"id": "47565654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47565654", "title": "Medical Women's International Association", "text": "Medical Women's International Association\n\nThe Medical Women's International Association is a non-governmental organization founded in 1919 with the purpose of representing female physicians worldwide. Esther Lovejoy was its first president.\n\n"}
{"id": "35021808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35021808", "title": "Mongolian Natural History Museum", "text": "Mongolian Natural History Museum\n\nThe Mongolian Natural History Museum () is a repository and research institution located in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. The museum was previously known as the Mongolian National Museum or State Central Museum. This change in name has often led to confusion with Ulaanbaatar's other preeminent museum, the National Museum of Mongolia. Although the two museums are located quite close to one another, they contain very different exhibits. The Mongolian National Museum focuses on the archaeology and history of Mongolia, while the Mongolian Natural History Museum is concerned primarily with the flora, fauna, geology and natural history of the country.\n\nThe museum includes Departments of Geology, Geography, Flora and Fauna, Paleontology, and Anthropology encompassing the natural history of Mongolia. The museum's holdings include more than 6000 specimens, 45% of which are on permanent public display.\n\nThe museum is particularly well known for its dinosaur and other paleontological exhibits, among which the most notable are a nearly complete skeleton of a late Cretaceous \"Tarbosaurus\" tyrannosaurid and broadly contemporaneous nests of \"Protoceratops\" eggs.\n\nThe Museum was established in 1924 as the \"National Museum\" (). In 1940-1941 the museum became known as the \"Rural Research Museum\"' () and in 1956 as the \"State Central Museum\" (). The museum received its current designation after the 1991 democratic revolution.\n\nThe current building was erected in 1953, and was deemed to be highly susceptible to natural disasters such as earthquakes in a study made in 2013. It was scheduled to be replaced by a new building, with budgeting planned to start in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "23289785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23289785", "title": "Nomen illegitimum", "text": "Nomen illegitimum\n\nNomen illegitimum (Latin for illegitimate name) is a technical term, used mainly in botany. It is usually abbreviated as nom. illeg. Although the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants uses Latin terms for other kinds of name (e.g. \"nomen conservandum\" for \"conserved name\"), the glossary defines the English phrase \"illegitimate name\" rather than the Latin equivalent. However, the Latin abbreviation is widely used by botanists and mycologists.\n\nA superfluous name is often an illegitimate name. Again, although the glossary defines the English phrase, the Latin equivalent nomen superfluum, abbreviated nom. superfl. is widely used by botanists.\n\nA \"nomen illegitimum\" is a validly published name, but one that contravenes some of the articles laid down by the International Botanical Congress. The name could be illegitimate because:\n\nFor the procedure of rejecting otherwise legitimate names, see conserved name.\n\nThe qualification above concerning the taxon and the type is important. A name can be superfluous but not illegitimate if it would be legitimate for a different circumscription. For example, the family name Salicaceae, based on the \"type genus\" \"Salix\", was published by Charles-François Brisseau de Mirbel in 1815. So when in 1818 Lorenz Chrysanth von Vest published the name Carpinaceae (based on the genus \"Carpinus\") for a family explicitly including the genus \"Salix\", it was superfluous: \"Salicaceae\" was already the correct name for Vest's circumscription; \"Carpinaceae\" is superfluous for a family containing \"Salix\". However, the name is not illegitimate, since \"Carpinus\" is a legitimate name. If \"Carpinus\" were in future placed in a family where no genus had been used as the basis for a family name earlier than Vest's name (e.g. if it were placed in a family of its own) then Carpinaceae would be its legitimate name. (See Article 52.3, Ex. 18.)\n\nA similar situation can arise when species are synonymized and transferred between genera. Carl Linnaeus described what he regarded as two distinct species of grass: \"Andropogon fasciculatus\" in 1753 and \"Agrostis radiata\" in 1759. If these two are treated as the same species, the oldest specific epithet, \"fasciculatus\", has priority. So when Swartz in 1788 combined the two as one species in the genus \"Chloris\", the name he used, \"Chloris radiata\", was superfluous, since the correct name already existed, namely \"Chloris fasciculata\". \"Chloris radiata\" is an incorrect name for a species in the genus \"Chloris\" with the same type as Linnaeus's \"Andropogon fasciculatus\". However, if they are treated as separate species, and Linnaeus's \"Agrostis radiata\" is transferred to \"Chloris\", then \"Chloris radiata\" is its legitimate name. (See Article 52.3, Ex. 15.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35629595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35629595", "title": "OSER1", "text": "OSER1\n\nChromosome 20 open reading frame 111, or C20orf111, is the hypothetical protein that in humans is encoded by the C20orf111 gene. C20orf111 is also known as Perit1 (peroxide inducible transcript 1), HSPC207, and dJ1183I21.1. It was originally located using genomic sequencing of chromosome 20. The National Center for Biotechnology Information, or NCBI, shows that it is located at q13.11 on chromosome 20, however the genome browser at the University of California-Santa Cruz (UCSC) website shows that it is at location q13.12, and within a million base pairs of the adenosine deaminase locus. It was also found to have an increase in expression in cells undergoing hydrogen peroxide()-induced apoptosis. After analyzing the amino acid content of C20orf111, it was found to be rich in serine residues.\n\nC20orf111 a valid, protein coding gene that is found on the minus strand of chromosome 20 at q13.12 by searching the UCSC Genome Browser, but q13.11 according to Refseq on NCBI.\n\nA few of the known genes near C20orf111 are given in the box below with their known function.\n\n\n10 splice isoforms that encode good proteins, altogether 8 different isoforms, 2 of which are complete isoforms. The image below shows the 10 isoforms that are predicted. Of these 10 splice isoforms, 8 have varying peptide lengths, however all of these proteins are only hypothetical with no extensive research done on them.\n\nWhen looking at the predicted promoter sequence, there are no RNA Polymerase II binding sites, however there is a binding site for core promoter element for TATA-less promoters. In this same region of the promoter, there is also a TATA-binding factor sequence, which helps in the positioning of RNA polymerase II for transcription.\n\n\nThe function of C20orf111 is not well understood by the scientific community. It does contain a domain of unknown function, DUF776, which has a large segment that is conserved well conserved through \"Xenopus tropicalus\". It is also shown to have an increase in expression in rat cardiomyocytes undergoing hydrogen peroxide induced apoptosis.\n\nWhen looking at the EST Profiles in humans, normal tissue (non-cancerous), expresses at a level of 82 transcripts per million. C20orf111 has been shown to increase in expression in rat cardiac myocytes undergoing |H|2|O|2|-induced apoptosis, suggesting a role in cell death. In bladder, cervical, head and neck, non-neoplasia, pancreatic, and prostate cancer cells, there are expression levels lower than normal.\n\nC20orf111 gene has no clear paralogs in the human genome. However, it has many orthologs in other organisms, and is conserved highly in organisms such as \"Xenopus tropicalis\" and is semi-conserved in the proto-animal \"Trichoplax adherens\" at the C-terminus.\n\nThe following table presents a select number of the orthologs found.\n\nThe image below is a multiple sequence alignment comparing the conservation of the C20orf111 protein amongst other organisms. The protein is highly conserved in the DUF776 region amongst vertebrates, and also at the C-terminus in eukaryotes.\n\nUsing tools at ExPASy the following are predicted post-translational modifications for C20orf111.\n\nPELE (Protein Secondary Structure Prediction) was used to predict the secondary structure of C20orf111. There is little in the way of β-strand or α-helix secondary structure, but a large part of the protein appears to exist as random coils. This is shown on the image of the C20orf111 images to the right. \n"}
{"id": "7448041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7448041", "title": "Oregonite", "text": "Oregonite\n\nOregonite, NiFeAs is a nickel iron arsenide mineral first described from Josephine Creek, Oregon, US.\n\nOregonite crystallises in the hexagonal crystal system and has a Mohs hardness of 5. \n\nOregonite is known, apart from its type locality, from the Chirnaisky Massif, Russia, associated with hydrothermal nickel minerals (millerite, heazelwoodite) in a metamorphosed ultramafic; from the Skouriatissa mine, Cyprus, associated with VMS mineralisation; and from the Kidd Mine, Timmins, Ontario, Canada within serpentinite-hosted chromite deposits.\n"}
{"id": "22773013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22773013", "title": "Overlay journal", "text": "Overlay journal\n\nAn overlay journal or overlay ejournal is an open access academic journal, almost always an online electronic journal (ejournal), that does not produce its own content, but selects from texts that are already freely available online. While many overlay journals derive their content from preprint servers, others, such as the \"Lund Medical Faculty Monthly\", contain mainly papers published by commercial publishers, but with links to self-archived preprint or postprints when possible.\n\nThe editors of an overlay journal locate suitable material from open access repositories and public domain sources, read it, and evaluate its worth. This evaluation may take the form of the judgement of a single editor or editors, or a full peer review process.\n\nPublic validation of subsequently approved texts may take several forms. At its most formal, the editor may republish the article with explicit approval. Approval might take the form of an addition to the text or its metadata. Or the editor may simply link to the article, via the table of contents of the overlay journal. An alternative approach is to link to articles already published in various open access ejournals, but adding value by grouping scattered articles together as a single themed issue of the overlay journal. Such themed issues allow the focussed coverage of relatively obscure or newly emerging topics.\n\nEpisciences.org https://www.episciences.org is an inititive to host overlay journals.\n\nThe term 'overlay journal' was first coined by Paul Ginsparg in 1996. That same year, the journal \"Physical Review D\" began to link to pre-prints that they had accepted, but not yet published. It was not until later that the first overlay journals were founded, including \"Journal of High Energy Physics\", \"Logical Methods in Computer Science\" and \"Geometry and Topology\", all of which were overlays for arXiv.\n\nIn February 2016, Timothy Gowers launched the overlay journal \"Discrete Analysis\". The overlay journal \"Quantum\" was also launched in 2016, with the first paper accepted in April 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1081047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1081047", "title": "Polyarchy", "text": "Polyarchy\n\nIn Western European political science, the term polyarchy \"many\", \"arkhe\" \"rule\") was used by Robert Dahl to describe a form of government in which power is invested in multiple people. It takes the form of neither a dictatorship nor a democracy. This form of government was first implemented in the United States and France and was gradually adopted by many other countries (Dahl, p. 234, 1989). According to Dahl, the fundamental democratic principle is “the continuing responsiveness of the government to the preferences of its citizens, considered as political equals” with unimpaired opportunities (Dahl, 1971). A polyarchy is a state that has certain procedures that are necessary conditions for following the democratic principle.\n\nIn semblance, the word polycracy describes the same form of government, although from a slightly different premise: a polycracy is a state ruled by more than one person, as opposed to a monocracy. The word is derived from Greek \"poly\" which means \"many\" and \"kratos\" which means \"rule\" or \"strength.\"\n\nDahl's original theory of polyarchal democracy is in his 1956 book, \"A Preface to Democratic Theory\". His theory evolved over the decades, and the description in later writings is somewhat different.\n\nIn this book, Dahl gives eight conditions, which measure the extent to which majority rule is in effect in an organization. These are (p. 84):\n\n\nDahl hypothesized that each of these conditions can be quantified, and suggested using the term polyarchy to describe an organization that scores high on the scales for all the eight conditions.\n\nAlso, Dahl viewed polyarchy as a system that manages to supply a high level of inclusiveness and a high level of liberalization to its citizens.\n\nIn his 1989 book, \"Democracy and its critics\", Dahl gives the following characteristics of a polyarchy (p. 233):\n\n\nDahl's Seven Sets of Conditions for Polyarchy are:\n\n\nPolyarchy and its procedures by itself may be insufficient for achieving full democracy. For example, poor people may be unable to participate in the political process. It is thought so, because some authors see polyarchy as a form of government that is not intended for greater social justice and cultural realization and to allow the repressed to politically participate.\n\nAccording to William I. Robinson, it is a system where small group actually rules on behalf of capital, and majority’s decision making is confined to choosing among selective number of elites within tightly controlled elective process. It is a form of consensual domination made possible by the structural domination of the global capital which allowed concentration of political powers.\n\nMoreover, perceived polyarchies – such as the United States – may bar a substantial number of its citizens from participating in its national electoral process. For example, more than four million U.S. citizens residing in the U.S. territories, such as Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands, are excluded from participating in the election of any voting-member of Congress, which are the political bodies that hold ultimate sovereignty over them. Robinson argues that they are effectively taxed without lawful representation (although the current status of these territories is as a matter of popular consensus in individual cases).\n\nIn \"Preface to Democratic Theory\" (1956) Dahl argues that an increase in citizen political involvement may not always be beneficial for polyarchy. An increase in the political participation of members of less educated classes, for example, could reduce the support for the basic norms of polyarchy, because members of those classes are more pre-disposed to be authoritarian-minded.\n\nIn a discussion of contemporary British foreign policy, Mark Curtis stated that \"Polyarchy is generally what British leaders mean when they speak of promoting 'democracy' abroad. This is a system in which a small group actually rules and mass participation is confined to choosing leaders in elections managed by competing elites.\"\n\nAlso, it is being promoted by the transnational elites in the South as a different form from the authoritarianism and dictatorship to the North as a part of Democracy Promotion. Robinson argues that this is to cultivate transnational elites who will open up their countries following transnational agenda of neoliberalism where transnational capital mobility and globalized circuits of production and distribution is established. For example, it was promoted to Nicaragua, Chile, Haiti, the Philippines, South Africa and the former Soviet Bloc countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "249798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249798", "title": "Quirks &amp; Quarks", "text": "Quirks &amp; Quarks\n\nQuirks & Quarks (Quirks) is a Canadian science news program, heard over CBC Radio One of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC).\n\nAiring since October 8, 1975, \"Quirks & Quarks\" is consistently rated among the most popular CBC programs, attracting over 800,000 listeners each Saturday from 12:06 to 13:00. The show is also heard on Sirius Satellite Radio and some American public radio stations. The show consists of several segments each week, most of which involve the host interviewing a scientist about a recent discovery or publication, combined with in-depth documentaries; however, from time to time the show does a special \"Question Show\" episode, during which the format consists of scientists answering questions submitted by listeners.\n\n\"Quirks & Quarks\" has offered listeners Internet audio streams and MP3 downloads on its web page since 1993. The MP3 audio files have been archived on the program web site, going back to Sept. 2006. In 2005, \"Quirks\" became the first major CBC show available as a podcast. Since the program began, it has won more than 80 national and international journalism awards, including the prestigious Walter Sullivan Award (twice) and the Science Writing Award from the American Institute of Physics (twice).\n\n\nSuzuki went on to host CBC Television's \"The Nature of Things\". Ingram left to become founding host of Discovery Channel Canada's nightly science-news program \"@discovery.ca\". McDonald came to \"Quirks\" from having hosted CBC Television's children's science program \"Wonderstruck\".\n\n"}
{"id": "416681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416681", "title": "Reversible process (thermodynamics)", "text": "Reversible process (thermodynamics)\n\nIn thermodynamics, a reversible process is a process whose direction can be \"reversed\" by inducing infinitesimal changes to some property of the system via its surroundings. Throughout the entire reversible process, the system is in thermodynamic equilibrium with its surroundings. Having been reversed, it leaves no change in either the system or the surroundings. Since it would take an infinite amount of time for the reversible process to finish, perfectly reversible processes are impossible. However, if the system undergoing the changes responds much faster than the applied change, the deviation from reversibility may be negligible. In a \"reversible cycle\", a cyclical reversible process, the system and its surroundings will be returned to their original states if one half cycle is followed by the other half cycle.\n\nThermodynamic processes can be carried out in one of two ways: reversibly or irreversibly. Reversibility means the reaction operates continuously at quasiequilibrium. In an ideal thermodynamically reversible process, the energy from work performed by or on the system would be maximized, and that from heat would be zero. However, heat cannot fully be converted to work and will always be lost to some degree (to the surroundings). (This is true only in case of a cycle. In case of an ideal process, heat can be completely converted into work, e.g., isothermal expansion of an ideal gas in a piston-cylinder arrangement.) The phenomenon of maximized work and minimized heat can be visualized on a pressure-volume curve, as the area beneath the equilibrium curve, representing work done. In order to maximize work, one must follow the equilibrium curve precisely. \n\nIrreversible processes, on the other hand, are a result of straying away from the curve, therefore decreasing the amount of overall work done; an irreversible process can be described as a thermodynamic process that departs from equilibrium. Irreversibility is defined as the difference between the reversible work and the actual work for a process. When described in terms of pressure and volume, it occurs when the pressure (or the volume) of a system changes so dramatically and instantaneously that the volume (or the pressure) does not have time to reach equilibrium. A classic example of irreversibility is allowing a certain volume of gas to be released into a vacuum. By releasing pressure on a sample and thus allowing it to occupy a large space, the system and surroundings are not in equilibrium during the expansion process and there is little work done. However, significant work will be required, with a corresponding amount of energy dissipated as heat flow to the environment, in order to reverse the process (compressing the gas back to its original volume and temperature). \n\nAn alternative definition of a \"reversible process\" is a process that, after it has taken place, can be reversed and, when reversed, returns the system and its surroundings to their initial states. In thermodynamic terms, a process \"taking place\" would refer to its transition from one state to another.\n\nIn an irreversible process, finite changes are made; therefore the system is not at equilibrium throughout the process. At the same point in an irreversible cycle, the system will be in the same state, but the surroundings are permanently changed after each cycle. It is the difference between the reversible work and the actual work for a process as shown in the following equation : I = \"W\" - \"W\"\n\nA reversible process changes the state of a system in such a way that the net change in the combined entropy of the system and its surroundings is zero. Reversible processes define the boundaries of how efficient heat engines can be in thermodynamics and engineering: a reversible process is one where no heat is lost from the system as \"waste\", and the machine is thus as efficient as it can possibly be (see Carnot cycle).\n\nIn some cases, it is important to distinguish between reversible and quasistatic processes. Reversible processes are always quasistatic, but the converse is not always true. For example, an infinitesimal compression of a gas in a cylinder where there exists friction between the piston and the cylinder is a quasistatic, but not reversible process. Although the system has been driven from its equilibrium state by only an infinitesimal amount, heat has been irreversibly lost due to friction, and cannot be recovered by simply moving the piston infinitesimally in the opposite direction.\n\nHistorically, the term Tesla principle was used to describe (amongst other things) certain reversible processes invented by Nikola Tesla. However, this phrase is no longer in conventional use. The principle stated that some systems could be reversed and operated in a complementary manner. It was developed during Tesla's research in alternating currents where the current's magnitude and direction varied cyclically. During a demonstration of the Tesla turbine, the disks revolved and machinery fastened to the shaft was operated by the engine. If the turbine's operation was reversed, the disks acted as a pump.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058704", "title": "Six Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age", "text": "Six Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age\n\nSix Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age (2004 in paperback, and 2003 in hardcover, ) is a popular science book by Duncan J. Watts covering the application of network theory to sociology.\n\nThe book covers Watts' own work on small-world networks, and continues on to cover scale-free networks, network searching, epidemics and network failures, social decision making, thresholds in networks, and innovation in large organizations and its lack.\n\nIn addition to covering the theoretical models and empirical case studies, the book also includes several stories about the character of the researchers who developed this science and their relationships with each other. \n\nThe case studies used include blackouts in the North American electricity distribution network, the relationships among members of corporate boards of directors, the distribution of wealth in societies, peer-to-peer file-sharing systems, computer viruses, economic bubbles, and the 1997 Aisin fire crisis at Toyota.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2457128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2457128", "title": "The Women's History of the World", "text": "The Women's History of the World\n\nThe Women's History of the World () is a book about women's history written by British author Rosalind Miles, first published in 1988. Later editions, including the paperback versions of the book, were titled \"Who Cooked The Last Supper: The Women's History of the World\". The book examines the roles of women, their representation, and their power through history.\n\nThe book has four parts, each one divided into 3 chapters:\n\nPART I: IN THE BEGINNING\nPART II: THE FALL OF WOMAN\nPART III: DOMINION AND DOMINATION\nPART IV: TURNING THE TIDE\n\n"}
{"id": "3281166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3281166", "title": "Thermodynamic process", "text": "Thermodynamic process\n\nClassical thermodynamics considers three main kinds of thermodynamic process: change in a system, cycles in a system, and flow processes.\n\nDefined by change in a system, a thermodynamic process is a passage of a thermodynamic system from an initial to a final state of thermodynamic equilibrium. The initial and final states are the defining elements of the process. The actual course of the process is not the primary concern, and thus often is ignored. This is the customary default meaning of the term 'thermodynamic process'. In general, during the actual course of a thermodynamic process, the system passes through physical states which are not describable as thermodynamic states, because they are far from internal thermodynamic equilibrium. Such processes are useful for thermodynamic theory.\n\nDefined by a cycle of transfers into and out of a system, a cyclic process is described by the quantities transferred in the several stages of the cycle, which recur unchangingly. The descriptions of the staged states of the system are not the primary concern. Cyclic processes were important conceptual devices in the early days of thermodynamical investigation, while the concept of the thermodynamic state variable was being developed.\n\nDefined by flows through a system, a flow process is a steady state of flows into and out of a vessel with definite wall properties. The internal state of the vessel contents is not the primary concern. The quantities of primary concern describe the states of the inflow and the outflow materials, and, on the side, the transfers of heat, work, and kinetic and potential energies for the vessel. Flow processes are of interest in engineering.\n\nDefined by change in a system, a thermodynamic process is a passage of a thermodynamic system from an initial to a final state of thermodynamic equilibrium. The initial and final states are the defining elements of the process. The actual course of the process is not the primary concern, and often is ignored. A state of thermodynamic equilibrium endures unchangingly unless it is interrupted by a thermodynamic operation that initiates a thermodynamic process. The equilibrium states are each respectively fully specified by a suitable set of thermodynamic state variables, that depend only on the current state of the system, not the path taken by the processes that produce that state. In general, during the actual course of a thermodynamic process, the system passes through physical states which are not describable as thermodynamic states, because they are far from internal thermodynamic equilibrium. Such a process may therefore be admitted for non-equilibrium thermodynamics, but not be admitted for equilibrium thermodynamics, which primarily aims to describe the continuous passage along the path, at definite rates of progress.\n\nThough not so in general, it is, however, possible, that a process may take place slowly or smoothly enough to allow its description to be usefully approximated by a continuous path of equilibrium thermodynamic states. Then it may be approximately described by a process function that does depend on the path. Such a process may be idealized as a \"quasi-static\" process, which is infinitely slow, and which is really a theoretical exercise in differential geometry, as opposed to an actually possible physical process; in this idealized case, the calculation may be exact, though the process does not actually occur in nature. Such idealized processes are useful in the theory of thermodynamics.\n\nDefined by a cycle of transfers into and out of a system, a cyclic process is described by the quantities transferred in the several stages of the cycle. The descriptions of the staged states of the system may be of little or even no interest. A cycle is a sequence of a small number of thermodynamic processes that indefinitely often repeatedly returns the system to its original state. For this, the staged states themselves are not necessarily described, because it is the transfers that are of interest. It is reasoned that if the cycle can be repeated indefinitely often, then it can be assumed that the states are recurrently unchanged. The condition of the system during the several staged processes may be of even less interest than is the precise nature of the recurrent states. If, however, the several staged processes are idealized and quasi-static, then the cycle is described by a path through a continuous progression of equilibrium states.\n\nDefined by flows through a system, a flow process is a steady state of flow into and out of a vessel with definite wall properties. The internal state of the vessel contents is not the primary concern. The quantities of primary concern describe the states of the inflow and the outflow materials, and, on the side, the transfers of heat, work, and kinetic and potential energies for the vessel. The states of the inflow and outflow materials consist of their internal states, and of their kinetic and potential energies as whole bodies. Very often, the quantities that describe the internal states of the input and output materials are estimated on the assumption that they are bodies in their own states of internal thermodynamic equilibrium. Because rapid reactions are permitted, the thermodynamic treatment may be approximate, not exact.\n\nA quasi-static thermodynamic process can be visualized by graphically plotting the path of idealized changes to the system's state variables. In the example, a cycle consisting of four quasi-static processes is shown. Each process has a well-defined start and end point in the pressure-volume state space. In this particular example, processes 1 and 3 are isothermal, whereas processes 2 and 4 are isochoric. The PV diagram is a particularly useful visualization of a quasi-static process, because the area under the curve of a process is the amount of work done by the system during that process. Thus work is considered to be a process variable, as its exact value depends on the particular path taken between the start and end points of the process. Similarly, heat may be transferred during a process, and it too is a process variable.\n\nIt is often useful to group processes into pairs, in which each variable held constant is one member of a conjugate pair.\n\nThe pressure-volume conjugate pair is concerned with the transfer of mechanical or dynamic energy as the result of work.\n\n\nThe temperature-entropy conjugate pair is concerned with the transfer of energy, especially for a closed system.\n\n\nThe processes just above have assumed that the boundaries are also impermeable to particles. Otherwise, we may assume boundaries that are rigid, but are permeable to one or more types of particle. Similar considerations then hold for the chemical potential–particle number conjugate pair, which is concerned with the transfer of energy via this transfer of particles.\n\n\nAny of the thermodynamic potentials may be held constant during a process. For example:\n\n\nA polytropic process is a thermodynamic process that obeys the relation:\n\nwhere \"P\" is the pressure, \"V\" is volume, \"n\" is any real number (the \"polytropic index\"), and \"C\" is a constant. This equation can be used to accurately characterize processes of certain systems, notably the compression or expansion of a gas, but in some cases, liquids and solids.\n\nAccording to Planck, one may think of three main classes of thermodynamic process: natural, fictively reversible, and impossible or unnatural.\n\nOnly natural processes occur in nature. For thermodynamics, a natural process is a transfer between systems that increases the sum of their entropies, and is irreversible. Natural processes may occur spontaneously, or may be triggered in a metastable or unstable system, as for example in the condensation of a supersaturated vapour.\n\nTo describe the geometry of graphical surfaces that illustrate equilibrium relations between thermodynamic functions of state, one can fictively think of so-called \"reversible processes\". They are convenient theoretical objects that trace paths across graphical surfaces. They are called \"processes\" but do not describe naturally occurring processes, which are always irreversible. Because the points on the paths are points of thermodynamic equilibrium, it is customary to think of the \"processes\" described by the paths as fictively \"reversible\". Reversible processes are always quasistatic processes, but the converse is not always true.\n\nUnnatural processes are logically conceivable but do not occur in nature. They would decrease the sum of the entropies if they occurred.\n\nA quasistatic process is an idealized or fictive model of a thermodynamic \"process\" considered in theoretical studies. It does not occur in physical reality. It may be imagined as happening infinitely slowly so that the system passes through a continuum of states that are infinitesimally close to equilibrium.\n\n\n"}
