{"id": "40658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40658", "title": "15th century BC", "text": "15th century BC\n\nThe 15th century BC is a century which lasted from 1500 BC to 1401 BC.\n\n\n\n\nSee: List of sovereign states in the 15th century BC.\n"}
{"id": "38648303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38648303", "title": "1907 in philosophy", "text": "1907 in philosophy\n\n1907 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13480217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13480217", "title": "1980 in philosophy", "text": "1980 in philosophy\n\n1980 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58025156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58025156", "title": "2018 World Monuments Watch", "text": "2018 World Monuments Watch\n\nThe World Monuments Watch is a flagship advocacy program of the New York-based private non-profit organization World Monuments Fund (WMF) that calls international attention to cultural heritage around the world that is threatened by neglect, vandalism, conflict, or disaster.\n\nEvery two years, it publishes a select list known as the Watch List of Endangered Sites that are in urgent need of preservation funding and protection. The sites are nominated by governments, conservation professionals, site caretakers, non-government organizations (NGOs), concerned individuals, and others working in the field. An independent panel of international experts then select 100 candidates from these entries to be part of the Watch List, based on the significance of the sites, the urgency of the threat, and the viability of both advocacy and conservation solutions. For the succeeding two-year period until a new Watch List is published, these 100 sites can avail grants and funds from the WMF, as well as from other foundations, private donors, and corporations by capitalizing on the publicity and attention gained from the inclusion on the Watch List.\n\nThe 2018 World Monuments Watch List of Endangered Sites was announced on October 16, 2017 by WMF President Joshua David. The 2018 Watch List highlights the threats to cultural heritage sites posed by human conflict, natural disaster, climate change, and urbanization.\n\nA. Names and spellings used for the sites were based on the official 2018 Watch List as published.<br>\nB. The references to the sites' locations and periods of construction were based on the official 2018 Watch List as published.\n\n"}
{"id": "30079574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30079574", "title": "Albert Montefiore Hyamson", "text": "Albert Montefiore Hyamson\n\nAlbert Montefiore Hyamson, (27 August 1875 – 5 October 1954) was a British civil servant and historian who served as chief immigration officer in the British Mandate of Palestine from 1921 to 1934.\n\nHyamson was born in London and educated at Swansea Grammar School and Beaufort College, St Leonards. He entered the Civil Service in 1895, where he initially worked at the Post Office. During the First World War, Hyamson was one of the most active Zionist writers in the UK. His work had been published by the Anglo-Zionist lobby group, the British Palestine Committee, the Zionist leadership in London and the British press. Lloyd George even claimed that one of Hyamson's articles in the \"New Statesman\" had stimulated his interest in Zionism.\n\nIn April 1917, Hyamson was made the editor of \"The Zionist Review\" (the newspaper published by the Zionist Federation). In October of that year Ze'ev Jabotinsky proposed a Jewish Bureau for the UK government's Department of Information, however as Jabotinsky was preoccupied with organising the Jewish Legion, the role fell to Hyamson. His work at the Bureau in December 1917 involved distributing news items that illustrated the British government's support for Zionism and the growing support for Zionism among the world's Jews. The main focus of his output was in America, where he distributed cables to two Jewish daily newspapers, \"The American Hebrew\" and \"American Jewish Chronicle\". At the same time, Hyamson became a senior member of a new committee created by the London Zionist Federation designed to publicise the Zionist message. The Jewish Bureau in the Department of Information and the London Zionist Federation ran in close contact, with members of the Federation writing much of the material for the Bureau. This enabled the Department of Information to hide the official nature of its propaganda, and allowed Zionists to produce material to promote their movement. Examples of Hyamson's work for the Department of Information included \"Great Britain and the Jews\", a pamphlet he wrote in response to the Balfour Declaration of 1917 that explained how the agreement was a part of a long tradition of British sympathy for the Jews. A film \"The British Re-conquering Palestine for the Jews\", made after General Allenby had taken Jerusalem, which was sent to Jewish centres around the world. His book \"Palestine: The Rebirth of an Ancient People\" set out \"the benefits the recent Jewish colonisation of Palestine has brought to the land\". Hyamson also made Jabotinsky the official British journalist for Zionist affairs in Palestine.\n\nSir Herbert Samuel, the British High Commissioner of Palestine, made Hyamson Commissioner for Migration of the British Mandate for Palestine in 1921 which put him in charge of the Palestinian Administration's immigration department. Samuel reasoned that like himself, Hyamson was a Zionist, but would not give preference to these interests over those of the government. His attempts to administer British immigration quotas earned him a bad reputation, at least in Vilnius, where he was known as a 'Jewish anti-semite'. According to Edwin Samuel, the son of Sir Herbert, who worked with Hyamson in 1926, Hyamson had a \"jaundiced view of his own staff: none, even the most senior, was allowed much discretion\". He worked late into the night on immigration applications, deciding many of them personally. For Sir Ronald Storrs, Hyamson was one those Jews (like Norman Bentwich) whose work for the Administration of Palestine put him in an impossible position where he was criticised by both Arabs and Jews. He felt that Hyamson's attempts to apply the immigration regulations made him very unpopular with pan-Zionists despite having admitted many thousands of Jews.\n\nIn the summer of 1926 Hyamson went on a tour of centres of Jewish population in Eastern Europe to investigate the conditions of the countries sending the largest numbers of immigrants to Palestine. In 1928, he published a travel guide, \"Palestine Old and New\", which The Times described as \"the work of a Zionist but one who is a born traveller, with an eye for scenery and a taste for romance.\"\n\nHyamson was made an OBE in the Birthday Honours list of 1931. The Mandate's Department of Immigration and Travel was reorganised in 1934 due to the increasing pressure of immigration from Germany. According to Edwin Samuel, Hyamson's insistence on doing as much work as possible himself had led to an application backlog of nine months. The Palestine Government responded to criticism about the situation by replacing Hyamson and his deputy Richard Badcock with Eric Mills and Samuels himself.\n\nTalks to try to break the impasse between Arabs and Jews in Mandate Palestine took place in London during July and August 1937 between Arabs, Gentile Anti-Zionists, and Hyamson, who represented Jews opposed to a Jewish state. This led to the drafting of the Hyamson-Newcombe proposal in August–September 1937. Colonel Newcombe was a leading British Arabist who had been a colleague of T.E. Lawrence in the First World War and was the treasurer of the Palestine Information Office (the leading Gentile anti-Zionist lobbying group in the UK at the time). The Hyamson-Newcombe proposal suggested the founding of an independent Palestinian state with all citizens having equal rights and each community had autonomy, including for municipal authority for Jewish villages, towns and districts. It also stated that a Jewish State could not be created in any part of Palestine in the future, that the existing Arab majority would continue to rule, there would be limits on land sales to Jews, and although Jewish immigration could continue Jews should constitute no more than 50% of the population. The Zionist leadership rejected the proposal, while Judah Leon Magnes (who had received a letter from David Ben-Gurion warning him that it was a 'deception') welcomed the ideas as the 'portals to an agreement'. Magnes then used the proposal to work with moderate Arabs on an alternative to partition that was not tainted by official British endorsement. His efforts, however, fell through.\n\nIn 1942 Hyamson published \"\", his work outlining his case against political Zionism and for a 'spiritual Zionism'. He was one of the original members of The Jewish Fellowship, founded on 7 November 1944, to campaign against (political) Zionism from a Jewish perspective. Founding members also included Basil Henriques, Sir Brunel Cohen, Joseph Leftwich, Louis Gluckstein, and Rabbi Israel Mattuck. The fellowship saw political Zionism as damaging the good relations the diaspora had achieved in the country of their birth, and as linked to a moral decline within Jewry. They held that the solution to problems faced by the Jewish community would be found in the revival of religious principles rather than political ones. By 1947, Leftwich felt that Hyamson was trying to turn the Fellowship into an organisation similar to Judah Magnes' Ihud (which sought Jewish-Arab co-operation for a bi-national unitary state).\n\nIn April 1945, Hyamsom was one of three Jews (the others being Jewish Fellowship members Emile Marmorstein and Rabbi Dr Israel Mattuck), and three Christians (Col. Newcombe, Arab specialist Nevill Barbour and Ralph Beaumont MP) as well as three Arabs to draw up A Constitution for Palestine. This was, according to Newcombe, a 'logical and moderate plea written in a matter of fact and convincing way' that attempted to show a non-Zionist solution to the Palestine problem composed by Christians, Jews and Muslims. The document broadly reiterated the Hyamson-Newcombe proposal, where an independent Palestinian state would be characterised by control of their own municipal authorities. However, the document did not refer to, or support, the more contentious clauses of the MacDonald White Paper of 1939, specifically clause 10(6) which called of an independent Palestinian state, and clause 10(7) which gave Arabs control over immigration. Although Hyamson and his Jewish colleagues were in agreement with the White Paper, these clauses were omitted so the Constitution would appeal to more Jews.\n\nHyamson's uncle was Rabbi Moses Hyamson. He married Marie Rose Lavey in 1911, they had four children, two boys and two girls. The boys were both killed during the Second World War. Captain Theodore David Hyamson RE who died of wounds in Singapore aged 27 in February 1942. Corporal Philipp Hyamson RAF was killed on active service in August 1944.\n\nIn 1904 he was the honorary secretary of the Union of Jewish Literary Societies. He became a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society.\nHyamson was President of the Jewish Historical Society of England from 1945–1947, and Honorary Editor of Publications for the society from 1944 until his death in 1954.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3904882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3904882", "title": "American School of Classical Studies at Athens", "text": "American School of Classical Studies at Athens\n\nThe American School of Classical Studies at Athens (ASCSA) () is one of 17 foreign archaeological institutes in Athens, Greece.\nThe center is a member of the Council of American Overseas Research Centers.\n\nFounded in 1892, the ASCSA is the most significant resource in Greece for American scholars in the fields of ancient and post-classical studies in Greek language, literature, history, archaeology, philosophy, and art. The mission of the School is to advance knowledge of Greece in all periods, as well as other areas of the classical world, by training young scholars, sponsoring and promoting archaeological fieldwork, providing resources for scholarly work, and disseminating research. The ASCSA is also charged by the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Tourism with primary responsibility for all American archaeological research, and seeks to support the investigation, preservation, and presentation of Greece's cultural heritage.\n\nThe School offers two major research libraries: the Blegen Library, with 94,000 volumes dedicated to the ancient Mediterranean world; and the Gennadius Library, with over 120,000 volumes and archives devoted to post-classical Hellenic civilization and, more broadly, the Balkans and the eastern Mediterranean. The School also sponsors excavations and provides centers for advanced research in archaeological and related topics at its excavations in the Athenian Agora and Ancient Corinth, and it houses an archaeological laboratory (the Wiener Laboratory) at the main building complex in Athens.\n\nThe ASCSA offers graduate students enrolled in member universities an unparalleled immersion into the sites and monuments of Greek civilization. Although there are many activities and programs at the School, its core programs are:\n\nThe Academic Year or 'Regular' Program, which runs from early September to early June, offers advanced graduate students from a variety of fields an intensive survey of the art, archaeology, history, and topography of Greece, from antiquity to the present. The program for Regular Members is an integrated participatory program over nine months. Regular Members are expected to be in attendance for the full nine-month program. Students receive comprehensive training through visits to the principal archaeological sites and museums of Greece as well as in seminars led by resident and visiting scholars. They also take part in the training program at the Corinth excavations. The School accepts 15 to 20 students in this program.\n\nThe Summer Sessions, which run for two six-week periods each, are open to North American graduate and advanced undergraduate students and to high school and college instructors of classics and related fields. In these sessions, the School condenses its academic year program into an intensive introduction to the sites, museums, and monuments of Greece. The Summer programs are open to 20 participants each session.\n\nThe School welcomes scholars to its libraries year-round for research. In addition, the School is a recognized leader in digital resources, providing an ever-expanding collection of books, journals, photographs, excavation notebooks, personal papers, maps, and scientific data sets online.\n\nThroughout its existence, the ASCSA has been involved in a large number of archaeological projects, as well as a major programme of primary archaeological publications. It is responsible for two of the most important archaeological sites in Greece, the Athenian Agora and Ancient Corinth. The Corinth Excavations commenced in 1896 and have continued to present day with little interruption, and the Athenian Agora excavations first broke ground in 1932. At both sites, the ASCSA operates important museums and extensive facilities for the study of the archaeological record. Excavation records and artifacts are made available to wider audiences via ASCSA.net\n\nOther archaeological projects with ASCSA involvement, past and present, include surveys in the Southern Argolid, in Messenia and at Vrokastro (Crete) and excavations at Olynthus (Greek Macedonia), Samothrace (North Aegean), the islet of Mitrou (Central Greece), Halai (Phthiotis), Isthmia, Kenchreai, Nemea, Sicyon (all in Corinthia), Lerna, Argos, Franchthi cave and Halieis (Argolid), Mt. Lykaion (Acadia), \nNichoria and the Palace of Nestor at Pylos (Messenia), Haghia Irini (Keos), as well as Azoria, Mochlos, Gournia, Kavousi and Kommos on Crete.\n\nASCSA publishes the peer-reviewed journal \"Hesperia\" quarterly as well as monographs for final reports of archaeological fieldwork conducted under School auspices, supplements to Hesperia, Gennadeion monographs; and miscellaneous volumes relating to the work of the School. These books range in format from large hardbacks to slim paperback guides.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46654878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46654878", "title": "Ana Lucia Araujo", "text": "Ana Lucia Araujo\n\nAna Lucia Araujo (born in 1971) is a Brazilian-born Canadian historian, author and professor of History at Howard University. She is a member of the International Scientific Committee of the UNESCO Slave Route Project. Her scholarship focuses on the transnational history, public memory, visual culture, and heritage of slavery and the Atlantic slave trade.\n\nAraujo was born and raised in Brazil. She is a Canadian citizen and resident of the United States. She earned her undergraduate degree in Fine Arts from Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil (1995), and a MA in History from Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Porto Alegre, Brazil (1998). She moved to Canada in 1999 and obtained a PhD in Art History from Université Laval (Québec City, Canada) in 2004. Her supervisor was David Karel (1944-2007). In 2007 she also earned in \"cotutelle\" a PhD in History (Université Laval) and a doctorate in Social and Historical Anthropology from École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales (Paris, France). Her supervisors were historian Bogumil Jewsiewicki and anthropologist .\n\nAraujo received a postdoctoral fellowship from FQRSC (Fonds québécois de la recherche sur la société et la culture) in 2008, for the project titled: \"Right to Image: Restitution of Cultural Heritage and Construction of the Memory of the Heirs of Slavery\" but moved to Washington DC to take a tenure-track position of Assistant Professor in the Department of History at Howard University. She was tenured and promoted to Associate Professor in 2011, and became full professor in 2014. Araujo is editor of the book series \"Slavery: Past and Present\" by Cambria Press. She lectures throughout the United States, Canada, Brazil, France, United Kingdom, Netherlands, and Argentina, in English, French, Portuguese, and Spanish.\n\nAraujo's work explores the public memory of slavery in the Atlantic world. She authored many books and articles on history and memory of slavery, including \"Public Memory of Slavery: Victims and Perpetrators in the Atlantic World\" (2010), \"Shadows of the Slave Past: Memory, Slavery, and Heritage\" (2014) and \"Reparations for Slavery and the Slave Trade: A Transnational and Comparative History\" (2017). \"Public Memory of Slavery,\" her first book in English studies the historical connections between Bahia in Brazil and the Kingdom of Dahomey in modern Benin, during the era of the Atlantic slave trade and how in these two areas social actors are engaging in remembering and commemorating the slave past to forge particular identities through the construction of monuments, memorials, and museums. In her second book she continued to focus on the processes of memorialization of slavery and the Atlantic slave trade in the Americas, with a particular emphasis on Brazil and the United States. Her book \"Reparations for Slavery\" is a comprehensive history of the demands of financial and material reparations for slavery and the slave trade in the Atlantic world.\n\nAraujo's first book published in French, \"Romantisme tropical: l'aventure d'un peintre français au Brésil\", examines how French travelogues, especially the travel account of French artist François-Auguste Biard (1799-1882), \"Deux années au Brésil\", contributed to construct a particular image of Brazil in Europe. In 2015, the University of New Mexico Press published a different version of this book \"Brazil Through French Eyes: A Nineteenth-Century Artist in the Tropics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2514174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514174", "title": "Aztec Empire", "text": "Aztec Empire\n\nThe Aztec Empire, or the Triple Alliance (, ]), began as an alliance of three Nahua city-states: , , and . These three city-states ruled the area in and around the Valley of Mexico from 1428 until the combined forces of the Spanish and their native allies under defeated them in 1521.\n\nThe Triple Alliance was formed from the victorious factions in a civil war fought between the city of and its former tributary provinces. Despite the initial conception of the empire as an alliance of three self-governed city-states, quickly became dominant militarily. By the time the Spanish arrived in 1519, the lands of the Alliance were effectively ruled from , while the other partners in the alliance had taken subsidiary roles.\n\nThe alliance waged wars of conquest and expanded rapidly after its formation. At its height, the alliance controlled most of central Mexico as well as some more distant territories within Mesoamerica, such as the Xoconochco province, an Aztec exclave near the present-day Guatemalan border. Aztec rule has been described by scholars as \"hegemonic\" or \"indirect\". The Aztecs left rulers of conquered cities in power so long as they agreed to pay semi-annual tribute to the Alliance, as well as supply military forces when needed for the Aztec war efforts. In return, the imperial authority offered protection and political stability, and facilitated an integrated economic network of diverse lands and peoples who had significant local autonomy.\n\nThe state religion of the empire was polytheistic, worshiping a diverse pantheon that included dozens of deities. Many had officially recognized cults large enough so that the deity was represented in the central temple precinct of the capital . The imperial cult, specifically, was that of , the distinctive warlike patron god of the Mexica. Peoples in conquered provinces were allowed to retain and freely continue their own religious traditions, so long as they added the imperial god to their local pantheons.\n\nThe word \"Aztec\" in modern usage would not have been used by the people themselves. It has variously been used to refer to the Triple Alliance empire, the Nahuatl-speaking people of central Mexico prior to the Spanish conquest, or specifically the Mexica ethnicity of the Nahuatl-speaking peoples. The name comes from a Nahuatl word meaning \"people from Aztlan,\" reflecting the mythical place of origin for Nahua peoples. For the purpose of this article, \"Aztec\" refers only to those cities that constituted or were subject to the Triple Alliance. For the broader use of the term, see the article on Aztec civilization.\n\nNahua peoples descended from Chichimec peoples who migrated to central Mexico from the north in the early 13th century. The migration story of the Mexica is similar to those of other polities in central Mexico, with supernatural sites, individuals, and events, joining earthly and divine history as they sought political legitimacy. According to the pictographic codices in which the Aztecs recorded their history, the place of origin was called Aztlán. Early migrants settled the Basin of Mexico and surrounding lands by establishing a series of independent city-states. These early Nahua city-states or \"altepetl\", were ruled by dynastic heads called \"tlahtohqueh\" (singular, \"tlatoāni\"). Most of the existing settlements had been established by other indigenous peoples before the Mexica migration.\n\nThese early city-states fought various small-scale wars with each other, but due to shifting alliances, no individual city gained dominance. The Mexica were the last of the Nahua migrants to arrive in Central Mexico. They entered the Basin of Mexico around the year 1250 AD, and by then most of the good agricultural land had already been claimed. The Mexica persuaded the king of Culhuacan, a small city-state but important historically as a refuge of the Toltecs, to allow them to settle in a relatively infertile patch of land called Chapultepec (\"Chapoltepēc,\" \"in the hill of grasshoppers\"). The Mexica served as mercenaries for Culhuacan.\n\nAfter the Mexica served Culhuacan in battle, the ruler appointed one of his daughters to rule over the Mexica. According to mythological native accounts, the Mexica instead sacrificed her by flaying her skin, on the command of their god Xipe Totec. When the ruler of Culhuacan learned of this, he attacked and used his army to drive the Mexica from Tizaapan by force. The Mexica moved to an island in the middle of Lake Texcoco, where, as legend is said to have predicted, an eagle nested on a nopal cactus. The Mexica interpreted this as a sign from their god and founded their new city, Tenochtitlan, on this island in the year \"ōme calli,\" or \"Two House\" (1325 AD).\n\nThe Mexica rose to prominence as fierce warriors and were able to establish themselves as a military power. The importance of warriors and the integral nature of warfare in Mexica political and religious life helped propel them to emerge as the dominant military power prior to the arrival of the Spanish in 1519.\n\nThe new Mexica city-state allied with the city of Azcapotzalco and paid tribute to its ruler, Tezozomoc. With Mexica assistance, Azcopotzalco began to expand into a small tributary empire. Until this point, the Mexica ruler was not recognized as a legitimate king. Mexica leaders successfully petitioned one of the kings of Culhuacan to provide a daughter to marry into the Mexica line. Their son, Acamapichtli, was enthroned as the first \"tlatoani\" of Tenochtitlan in the year 1372.\n\nWhile the Tepanecs of Azcapotzalco expanded their rule with help from the Mexica, the Acolhua city of Texcoco grew in power in the eastern portion of the lake basin. Eventually, war erupted between the two states, and the Mexica played a vital role in the conquest of Texcoco. By then, Tenochtitlan had grown into a major city and was rewarded for its loyalty to the Tepanecs by receiving Texcoco as a tributary province.\n\nIn 1426, the Tepanec king Tezozomoc died, and the resulting succession crisis precipitated a civil war between potential successors. The Mexica supported Tezozomoc's preferred heir, Tayahauh, who was initially enthroned as king. But his son, Maxtla, soon usurped the throne and turned against factions that opposed him, including the Mexica ruler Chimalpopoca. The latter died shortly thereafter, possibly assassinated by Maxtla.\n\nThe new Mexica ruler Itzcoatl continued to defy Maxtla; he blockaded Tenochtitlan and demanded increased tribute payments. Maxtla similarly turned against the Acolhua, and the king of Texcoco, Nezahualcoyotl, fled into exile. Nezahualcoyotl recruited military help from the king of Huexotzinco, and the Mexica gained the support of a dissident Tepanec city, Tlacopan. In 1427, Tenochtitlan, Texcoco, Tlacopan, and Huexotzinco went to war against Azcapotzalco, emerging victorious in 1428.\n\nAfter the war, Huexotzinco withdrew, and in 1430 , the three remaining cities formed a treaty known today as the Triple Alliance. The Tepanec lands were carved up among the three cities, whose leaders agreed to cooperate in future wars of conquest. Land acquired from these conquests was to be held by the three cities together. Tribute was to be divided so that two-fifths each went to Tenochtitlan and Texcoco, and one-fifth went to Tlacopan. Each of the three kings of the alliance in turn assumed the title \"huetlatoani\" (\"Elder Speaker\", often translated as \"Emperor\"). In this role, each temporarily held a \"de jure\" position above the rulers of other city-states (\"tlatoani\").\n\nIn the next 100 years, the Triple Alliance of Tenochtitlan, Texcoco, and Tlacopan came to dominate the Valley of Mexico and extend its power to the shores of the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific. Tenochtitlan gradually became the dominant power in the alliance. Two of the primary architects of this alliance were the half-brothers Tlacaelel and Moctezuma, nephews of Itzcoatl. Moctezuma eventually succeeded Itzcoatl as the Mexica \"huetlatoani\" in 1440. Tlacaelel occupied the newly created title of \"Cihuacoatl\", equivalent to something between \"Prime Minister\" and \"Viceroy\".\n\nShortly after the formation of the Triple Alliance, Itzcoatl and Tlacopan instigated sweeping reforms on the Aztec state and religion. It has been alleged that Tlacaelel ordered the burning of some or most of the extant Aztec books, claiming that they contained lies and that it was \"not wise that all the people should know the paintings\". Even if he did order such book-burnings, it was probably limited primarily to documents containing political propaganda from previous regimes; he thereafter rewrote the history of the Aztecs, naturally placing the Mexica in a more central role.\n\nAfter Moctezuma I succeeded Itzcoatl as the Mexica emperor, more reforms were instigated to maintain control over conquered cities. Uncooperative kings were replaced with puppet rulers loyal to the Mexica. A new imperial tribute system established Mexica tribute collectors that taxed the population directly, bypassing the authority of local dynasties. Nezahualcoyotl also instituted a policy in the Acolhua lands of granting subject kings tributary holdings in lands far from their capitals. This was done to create an incentive for cooperation with the empire; if a city's king rebelled, he lost the tribute he received from foreign land. Some rebellious kings were replaced by \"calpixqueh\", or appointed governors rather than dynastic rulers.\n\nMoctezuma issued new laws that further separated nobles from commoners and instituted the death penalty for adultery and other offenses. By royal decree, a religiously supervised school was built in every neighborhood. Commoner neighborhoods had a school called a \"telpochcalli\" where they received basic religious instruction and military training. A second, more prestigious type of school called a \"calmecac\" served to teach the nobility, as well as commoners of high standing seeking to become priests or artisans. Moctezuma also created a new title called \"quauhpilli\" that could be conferred on commoners. This title was a form of non-hereditary lesser nobility awarded for outstanding military or civil service (similar to the English knight). In some rare cases, commoners that received this title married into royal families and became kings.\n\nOne component of this reform was the creation of an institution of regulated warfare called the Flower Wars. Mesoamerican warfare overall is characterized by a strong preference for capturing live prisoners as opposed to slaughtering the enemy on the battlefield, which was considered sloppy and gratuitous. The Flower Wars are a potent manifestation of this approach to warfare. These highly ritualized wars ensured a steady, healthy supply of experienced Aztec warriors as well as a steady, healthy supply of captured enemy warriors for sacrifice to the gods. Flower wars were pre-arranged by officials on both sides and conducted specifically for the purpose of each polity collecting prisoners for sacrifice. According to native historical accounts, these wars were instigated by Tlacaelel as a means of appeasing the gods in response to a massive drought that gripped the Basin of Mexico from 1450 to 1454. The flower wars were mostly waged between the Aztec Empire and the neighboring cities of their arch-enemy Tlaxcala.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Tepanecs, Itzcoatl and Nezahualcoyotl rapidly consolidated power in the Basin of Mexico and began to expand beyond its borders. The first targets for imperial expansion were Coyoacan in the Basin of Mexico and Cuauhnahuac and Huaxtepec in the modern Mexican state of Morelos. These conquests provided the new empire with a large influx of tribute, especially agricultural goods.\n\nOn the death of Itzcoatl, Moctezuma I was enthroned as the new Mexica emperor. The expansion of the empire was briefly halted by a major four-year drought that hit the Basin of Mexico in 1450, and several cities in Morelos had to be re-conquered after the drought subsided. Moctezuma and Nezahualcoyotl continued to expand the empire east towards the Gulf of Mexico and south into Oaxaca. In 1468, Moctezuma I died and was succeeded by his son, Axayacatl. Most of Axayacatl's thirteen-year-reign was spent consolidating the territory acquired under his predecessor. Motecuzoma and Nezahualcoyotl had expanded rapidly and many provinces rebelled.\n\nAt the same time as the Aztec Empire was expanding and consolidating power, the Purépecha Empire in West Mexico was similarly expanding. In 1455, the Purépecha under their king Tzitzipandaquare had invaded the Toluca Valley, claiming lands previously conquered by Motecuzoma and Itzcoatl. In 1472, Axayacatl re-conquered the region and successfully defended it from Purépecha attempts to take it back. In 1479, Axayacatl launched a major invasion of the Purépecha Empire with 32,000 Aztec soldiers. The Purépecha met them just across the border with 50,000 soldiers and scored a resounding victory, killing or capturing over 90% of the Aztec army. Axayacatl himself was wounded in the battle, retreated to Tenochtitlan, and never engaged the Purépecha in battle again.\n\nIn 1472, Nezahualcoyotl died and his son Nezahualpilli was enthroned as the new huetlatoani of Texcoco. This was followed by the death of Axayacatl in 1481. Axayacatl was replaced by his brother Tizoc. Tizoc's reign was notoriously brief. He proved to be ineffectual and did not significantly expand the empire. Apparently due to his incompetence, Tizoc was likely assassinated by his own nobles five years into his rule.\n\nTizoc was succeeded by his brother Ahuitzotl in 1486. Like his predecessors, the first part of Ahuitzotl's reign was spent suppressing rebellions that were commonplace due to the indirect nature of Aztec rule. Ahuitzotl then began a new wave of conquests including the Oaxaca Valley and the Soconusco Coast. Due to increased border skirmishes with the Purépechas, Ahuitzotl conquered the border city of Otzoma and turned the city into a military outpost. The population of Otzoma was either killed or dispersed in the process. The Purépecha subsequently established fortresses nearby to protect against Aztec expansion. Ahuitzotl responded by expanding further west to the Pacific Coast of Guerrero.\n\nBy the reign of Ahuitzotl, the Mexica were the largest and most powerful faction in the Aztec Triple Alliance. Building on the prestige the Mexica had acquired over the course of the conquests, Ahuitzotl began to use the title \"huehuetlatoani\" (\"Eldest Speaker\") to distinguish himself from the rulers of Texcoco and Tlacopan. Even though the alliance still technically ran the empire, the Mexica Emperor now assumed nominal if not actual seniority.\n\nAhuitzotl was succeeded by his nephew Motecuzoma II in 1502. Motecuzoma II spent most of his reign consolidating power in lands conquered by his predecessors. In 1515, Aztec armies commanded by the Tlaxcalan general Tlahuicole invaded the Purépecha Empire once again. The Aztec army failed to take any territory and was mostly restricted to raiding. The Purépechas defeated them and the army withdrew.\n\nMotecuzoma II instituted more imperial reforms. After the death of Nezahualcoyotl, the Mexica Emperors had become the \"de facto\" rulers of the alliance. Motecuzoma II used his reign to attempt to consolidate power more closely with the Mexica Emperor. He removed many of Ahuitzotl's advisors and had several of them executed. He also abolished the \"quauhpilli\" class, destroying the chance for commoners to advance to the nobility. His reform efforts were cut short by the Spanish Conquest in 1519.\n\nSpanish expedition leader Hernán Cortés landed in Yucatán in 1519 with approximately 630 men (most armed with only a sword and shield). Cortés had actually been removed as the expedition's commander by the governor of Cuba, Diego Velásquez, but had stolen the boats and left without permission. At the island of Cozumel, Cortés encountered a shipwrecked Spaniard named Gerónimo de Aguilar who joined the expedition and translated between Spanish and Mayan. The expedition then sailed west to Campeche, where after a brief battle with the local army, Cortés was able to negotiate peace through his interpreter, Aguilar. The King of Campeche gave Cortés a second translator, a bilingual Nahua-Maya slave woman named La Malinche (she was known also as Malinalli [maliˈnalːi], Malintzin [maˈlintsin] or Doña Marina [ˈdoɲa maˈɾina] ). Aguilar translated from Spanish to Mayan and La Malinche translated from Mayan to Nahuatl. Once Malinche learned Spanish, she became Cortés's translator for both language and culture, and was a key figure in interactions with Nahua rulers. An important article, \"Rethinking Malinche\" by Frances Karttunen examines her role in the conquest and beyond.\n\nCortés then sailed from Campeche to Cempoala, a tributary province of the Aztec Triple Alliance. Nearby, he founded the town of Veracruz where he met with ambassadors from the reigning Mexica emperor, Motecuzoma II. When the ambassadors returned to Tenochtitlan, Cortés went to Cempoala to meet with the local Totonac leaders. After the Totonac ruler told Cortés of his various grievances against the Mexica, Cortés convinced the Totonacs to imprison an imperial tribute collector. Cortés subsequently released the tribute collector after persuading him that the move was entirely the Totonac's idea and that he had no knowledge of it. Having effectively declared war on the Aztecs, the Totonacs provided Cortés with 20 companies of soldiers for his march to Tlaxcala. At this time several of Cortés's soldiers attempted to mutiny. When Cortés discovered the plot, he had his ships scuttled and sank them in the harbor to remove any possibility of escaping to Cuba.\n\nThe Spanish-led Totonac army crossed into Tlaxcala to seek the latter's alliance against the Aztecs. However, the Tlaxcalan general Xicotencatl the Younger believed them to be hostile, and attacked. After fighting several close battles, Cortés eventually convinced the leaders of Tlaxcala to order their general to stand down. Cortés then secured an alliance with the people of Tlaxcala, and traveled from there to the Basin of Mexico with a smaller company of 5,000-6,000 Tlaxcalans and 400 Totonacs, in addition to the Spanish soldiers. During his stay in the city of Cholula, Cortés claims he received word of a planned ambush against the Spanish. In a pre-emptive response, Cortés directed his troops attack and kill a large number of unarmed Cholulans gathered in the main square of the city.\n\nFollowing the massacre at Cholula, Hernan Cortés and the other Spaniards entered Tenochtitlan, where they were greeted as guests and given quarters in the palace of former emperor Axayacatl. After staying in the city for six weeks, two Spaniards from the group left behind in Veracruz were killed in an altercation with an Aztec lord named Quetzalpopoca. Cortés claims that he used this incident as an excuse to take Motecuzoma prisoner under threat of force. For several months, Motecuzoma continued to run the kingdom as a prisoner of Hernan Cortés. Then, in 1520, a second, larger Spanish expedition arrived under the command of Pánfilo de Narváez sent by Diego Velásquez with the goal of arresting Cortés for treason. Before confronting Narváez, Cortés secretly persuaded Narváez's lieutenants to betray him and join Cortés.\n\nWhile Cortés was away from Tenochtitlan dealing with Narváez, his second in command Pedro de Alvarado massacred a group of Aztec nobility in response to a ritual of human sacrifice honoring Huitzilopochtli. The Aztecs retaliated by attacking the palace where the Spanish were quartered. Cortés returned to Tenochtitlan and fought his way to the palace. He then took Motecuzoma up to the roof of the palace to ask his subjects to stand down. However, by this point the ruling council of Tenochtitlan had voted to depose Motecuzoma and had elected his brother Cuitlahuac as the new emperor. One of the Aztec soldiers struck Motecuzoma in the head with a sling stone, and he died several days later – although the exact details of his death, particularly who was responsible, are unclear.\n\nThe Spaniards and their allies, realizing they were vulnerable to the hostile Mexica in Tenochtitlan following Moctezuma's death, attempted to retreat without detection in what is known as the \"Sad Night\" or La Noche Triste. Spaniards and their Indian allies were discovered clandestinely retreating, and then were forced to fight their way out of the city, with heavy loss of life. Some Spaniards lost their lives by drowning, loaded down with gold. They retreated to Tlacopan (now Tacuba) and made their way to Tlaxcala, where they recovered and prepared for the second, successful assault on Tenochtitlan. After this incident, a smallpox outbreak hit Tenochtitlan. As the indigenous of the New World had no previous exposure to smallpox, this outbreak alone killed more than 50% of the region's population, including the emperor, Cuitlahuac. While the new emperor Cuauhtémoc dealt with the smallpox outbreak, Cortés raised an army of Tlaxcalans, Texcocans, Totonacs, and others discontent with Aztec rule. With a combined army of up to 100,000 warriors, the overwhelming majority of which were indigenous rather than Spanish, Cortés marched back into the Basin of Mexico. Through numerous subsequent battles and skirmishes, he captured the various indigenous city-states or altepetl around the lake shore and surrounding mountains, including the other capitals of the Triple Alliance, Tlacopan and Texcoco. Texcoco in fact had already become firm allies of the Spaniards and the city-state, and subsequently petitioned the Spanish crown for recognition of their services in the conquest, just as Tlaxcala had done.\n\nUsing boats constructed in Texcoco from parts salvaged from the scuttled ships, Cortés blockaded and laid siege to Tenochtitlan for a period of several months. Eventually, the Spanish-led army assaulted the city both by boat and using the elevated causeways connecting it to the mainland. Although the attackers took heavy casualties, the Aztecs were ultimately defeated. The city of Tenochtitlan was thoroughly destroyed in the process. Cuauhtémoc was captured as he attempted to flee the city. Cortés kept him prisoner and tortured him for a period of several years before finally executing him in 1525.\n\nThe Aztec Empire was an example of an empire that ruled by indirect means.\nLike most European empires, it was ethnically very diverse, but unlike most European empires, it was more a system of tributes than a single unitary form of government. In the theoretical framework of imperial systems posited by American historian Alexander J. Motyl the Aztec empire was an informal type of empire in that the Alliance did not claim supreme authority over its tributary provinces; it merely expected tributes to be paid. The empire was also territorially discontinuous, i.e. not all of its dominated territories were connected by land. For example, the southern peripheral zones of Xoconochco were not in immediate contact with the central part of the empire. The hegemonic nature of the Aztec empire can be seen in the fact that generally local rulers were restored to their positions once their city-state was conquered and the Aztecs did not interfere in local affairs as long as the tribute payments were made.\n\nAlthough the form of government is often referred to as an empire, in fact most areas within the empire were organized as city-states (individually known as \"altepetl\" in Nahuatl, the language of the Aztecs). These were small polities ruled by a king or \"tlatoani\" (literally \"speaker\", plural \"tlatoque\") from an aristocratic dynasty. The Early Aztec period was a time of growth and competition among altepeme. Even after the empire was formed in 1428 and began its program of expansion through conquest, the altepetl remained the dominant form of organization at the local level. The efficient role of the altepetl as a regional political unit was largely responsible for the success of the empire's hegemonic form of control.\n\nIt should be remembered that the term \"Aztec empire\" is a modern one, not one used by the Aztec themselves. The Aztec realm was at its core composed of three Nahuatl-speaking city states in the densely populated Valley of Mexico. Over time, asymmetries of power elevated one of those city states, Tenochtitlan, above the other two. The \"Triple Alliance\" came to establish hegemony over much of central Mesoamerica, including areas of great linguistic and cultural diversity. Administration of the empire was performed through largely traditional, indirect means. However, over time something of a nascent bureaucracy may have been beginning to form insofar as the state organization became increasingly centralized.\n\nBefore the reign of Nezahualcoyotl (1429–1472), the Aztec empire operated as a confederation along traditional Mesoamerican lines. Independent altepetl were led by tlatoani (lit., \"speakers\"), who supervised village headmen, who in turn supervised groups of households. A typical Mesoamerican confederation placed a \"Huey Tlatoani\" (lit., \"great speaker\") at the head of several tlatoani. Following Nezahualcoyotl, the Aztec empire followed a somewhat divergent path, with some tlatoani of recently conquered or otherwise subordinated altepetl becoming replaced with \"calpixque\" stewards charged with collecting tribute on behalf of the Huetlatoani rather than simply replacing an old tlatoque with new ones from the same set of local nobility.\n\nYet the Huey tlatoani was not the sole executive. It was the responsibility of the Huey tlatoani to deal with the \"external\" issues of empire; the management of tribute, war, diplomacy, and expansion were all under the purview of the Huey tlatoani. It was the role of the \"Cihuacoatl\" to govern the city of Tenochtitlan itself. The Cihuacoatl was always a close relative of the Huey tlatoani; Tlacaelel, for example, was the brother of Moctezuma I. Both the title \"Cihuacoatl\", which means \"female snake\" (it is the name of a Nahua deity), and the role of the position, somewhat analogous to a European Viceroy or Prime Minister, reflect the dualistic nature of Nahua cosmology. Neither the position of Cihuacoatl nor the position of Huetlatoani were priestly, yet both did have important ritual tasks. Those of the former were associated with the \"female\" wet season, those of the latter with the \"male\" dry season. While the position of Cihuacoatl is best attested in Tenochtitlan, it is known that the position also existed the nearby altepetl of Atzcapotzalco, Culhuacan, and Tenochtitlan's ally Texcoco. Despite the apparent lesser status of the position, a Cihuacoatl could prove both influential and powerful, as in the case of Tlacaelel.\n\nEarly in the history of the empire, Tenochtitlan developed a four-member military and advisory Council which assisted the Huey tlatoani in his decision-making: the \"tlacochcalcatl\"; the \"tlaccatecatl\"; the \"ezhuahuacatl\"; and the \"tlillancalqui\". This design not only provided advise for the ruler, it also served to contain ambition on the part of the nobility, as henceforth Huey Tlatoani could only be selected from the Council. Moreover, the actions of any one member of the Council could easily be blocked by the other three, providing a simple system of checks on the ambition higher officials. These four Council members were also generals, members of various military societies. The ranks of the members were not equal, with the tlacochcalcatl and tlaccatecatl having a higher status than the others. These two Councillors were members of the two most prestigious military societies, the \"cuauhchique\" (\"shorn ones\") and the \"otontin\" (\"Otomies\").\n\nTraditionally, provinces and altepetl were governed by hereditary tlatoani. As the empire grew, the system evolved further and some tlatoani were replaced by other officials.The other officials had similar authority to tlatoani. As has already been mentioned, directly appointed stewards (singular \"calpixqui\", plural \"calpixque\") were sometimes imposed on altepetl instead of the selection of provincial nobility to the same position of tlatoani. At the height of empire, the organization of the state into tributary and strategic provinces saw an elaboration of this system. The 38 tributary provinces fell under the supervision of high stewards, or \"huecalpixque\", whose authority extended over the lower-ranking calpixque. These calpixque and huecalpixque were essentially managers of the provincial tribute system which was overseen and coordinated in the paramount capital of Tenochtitlan not by the \"huetlatoani\", but rather by a separate position altogether: the \"petlacalcatl\". On the occasion that a recently conquered altepetl was seen as particularly restive, a military governor, or \"cuauhtlatoani\", was placed at the head of provincial supervision. During the reign of Moctezuma I, the calpixque system was elaborated, with two calpixque assigned per tributary province. One was stationed in the province itself, perhaps for supervising the collection of tribute, and the other in Tenochtitlan, perhaps for supervising storage of tribute. Tribute was drawn from commoners, the \"macehualtin\", and distributed to the nobility, be they 'kings' (\"tlatoque\"), lesser rulers (\"teteuctin\"), or provincial nobility (\"pipiltin\").\n\nTribute collection was supervised by the above officials and relied upon the coercive power of the Aztec military, but also upon the cooperation of the \"pipiltin\" (the local nobility who were themselves exempt from and recipient to tribute) and the hereditary class of merchants known as \"pochteca\". These pochteca had various gradations of ranks which granted them certain trading rights and so were not necessarily pipiltin themselves, yet they played an important role in both the growth and administration of the Aztec tributary system nonetheless. The power, political and economic, of the pochteca was strongly tied to the political and military power of the Aztec nobility and state. In addition to serving as diplomats (\"teucnenenque\", or \"travelers of the lord\") and spies in the prelude to conquest, higher-ranking pochteca also served as judges in market plazas and were to certain degree autonomous corporate groups, having administrative duties within their own estate.\n\nOriginally, the Aztec empire was loose alliance between three cities: Tenochtitlan, Texcoco, and the most junior partner, Tlacopan. As such, they were known as the 'Triple Alliance.' This political form was very common in Mesoamerica, where alliances of city-states were ever fluctuating. However, over time, it was Tenochtitlan which assumed paramount authority in the alliance, and although each partner city shared spoils of war and rights to regular tribute from the provinces and were governed by their own Huetlatoani, it was Tenochtitlan which became the largest, most powerful, and most influential of the three cities. It was the de facto and acknowledged center of empire.\n\nThough they were not described by the Aztec this way, there were essentially two types of provinces: Tributary and Strategic. Strategic provinces were essentially subordinate client states which provided tribute or aid to the Aztec state under \"mutual consent\". Tributary provinces, on the other hand, provided regular tribute to the empire; obligations on the part of Tributary provinces were mandatory rather than consensual.\n\nRulers, be they local teteuctin or tlatoani, or central Huetlatoani, were seen as representatives of the gods and therefore ruled by divine right. \"Tlatocayotl\", or the principle of rulership, established that this divine right was inherited by descent. Political order was therefore also a cosmic order, and to kill a tlatoani was to transgress that order. For that reason, whenever a tlatoani was killed or otherwise removed from their station, a relative and member of the same bloodline was typically placed in their stead. The establishment of the office of Huetlatoani understood through the creation of another level of rulership, \"hueitlatocayotl\", standing in superior contrast to the lesser \"tlatocayotl\" principle.\n\nExpansion of the empire was guided by a militaristic interpretation of Nahua religion, specifically a devout veneration of the sun god, Huitzilopochtli. Militaristic state rituals were performed throughout the year according to a ceremonial calendar of events, rites, and mock battles. The time period they lived in was understood as the \"Ollintonatiuh\", or Sun of Movement, which was believed to be the final age after which humanity would be destroyed. It was under Tlacaelel that Huitzilopochtli assumed his elevated role in the state pantheon and who argued that it was through blood sacrifice that the Sun would be maintained and thereby stave off the end of the world. It was under this new, militaristic interpretation of Huitzilopochtli that Aztec soldiers were encouraged to fight wars and capture enemy soldiers for sacrifice. Though blood sacrifice was common in Mesoamerica, the scale of human sacrifice under the Aztecs was likely unprecedented in the region.\n\nThe most developed code of law was developed in the city-state of Texcoco under its ruler Nezahualcoyotl. It was a formal written code, not merely a collection of customary practices. The sources for knowing about the legal code are colonial-era writings by Franciscan Toribio de Benavente Motolinia, Franciscan Fray Juan de Torquemada, and Texcocan historians Juan Bautista Pomar, and Fernando de Alva Cortés Ixtlilxochitl. The law code in Texcoco under Nezahualcoyotl was legalistic, that is cases were tried by particular types of evidence and the social status of the litigants was disregarded, and consisted of 80 written laws. These laws called for severe, publicly administered punishments, creating a legal framework of social control.\n\nMuch less is known about the legal system in Tenochtitlan, which might be less \"legalistic or sophisticated as those of Texcoco for this period. It seems to have been established under the reign of Moctezuma I. These laws served to establish and govern relations between the state, classes, and individuals. Punishment was to be meted out solely by state authorities. Nahua mores were enshrined in these laws, criminalizing public acts of homosexuality, drunkenness, and nudity, not to mention more universal proscriptions against theft, murder, and property damage. As stated before, \"pochteca\" could serve as judges, often exercising judicial oversight of their own members. Likewise, military courts dealt with both cases within the military and without during wartime. There was an appeal process, with appellate courts standing between local, typically market-place courts, on the provincial level and a supreme court and two special higher appellate courts at Tenochtitlan. One of those two special courts dealt with cases arising within Tenochtitlan, the other with cases originating from outside the capital. The ultimate judicial authority laid in hands of the \"Huey tlatoani\", who had the right to appoint lesser judges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5901268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5901268", "title": "Bailleur", "text": "Bailleur\n\nA bailleur, a French term, is a land owner who outsourced uncultivated parcels of land as part of an early Middle Age sharecropping system known as \"complant\" — a precursor to the métayage system. Under this system, a laborer known as a prendeur would agree to cultivate land owned by the \"bailleur\" in exchange for ownership of the crop and its production. For use of the \"bailleur's\" soil, the \"prendeur\" promised a share (normally a third to two-thirds) of the crop's production or its revenue to the \"bailleur\". The length of this partnership varied and sometimes would extend over generations. \n"}
{"id": "6838307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6838307", "title": "Bibliotheca Hertziana – Max Planck Institute for Art History", "text": "Bibliotheca Hertziana – Max Planck Institute for Art History\n\nThe Bibliotheca Hertziana – Max Planck Institute for Art History is a German research institute located in Rome, Italy. It was founded by a donation of Henriette Hertz in 1912 as a Kaiser Wilhelm Institute. Of the 80 institutes in the Max Planck Society (Max Planck Gesellschaft), it is one of the few not located in Germany. The institute is situated in the historical centre of Rome near Trinità dei Monti in a cluster of four buildings along the Via Gregoriana: the 16th-century Palazzo Zuccari, the adjacent Palazzo Stroganoff, the Villino Stroganoff across the road and the new library building (completed in 2012) designed by the Spanish architect Juan Navarro Baldeweg.\n\nThe Bibliotheca Hertziana was founded in 1913 in Rome as an institute of the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Society for research on Italian art from the period immediately following antiquity, and in particular the Renaissance and the Baroque periods. These two epochs take centre stage in the research to date and soon will be joined by a third focus, the art of the Italian Middle Ages. The programme of the Hertziana focuses on the art of Rome as well as that of central and southern Italy, as they were the cradle of important developments that affected European art history as a whole. Last but not least, Roman art owes its status to Roman artists' permanent confrontation with ancient art in all its forms—an interaction that is unavoidable in Rome. The institute supports the following projects:<br>\n\nRegular workshops on current projects, monthly lectures, study courses for younger academics from the German-speaking countries as well as numerous symposia and congresses provide opportunities for academic exchange between the members of the institute and guests from outside. The Bibliotheca Hertziana's holdings of specialist literature as well as its collection of more than 800.000 photographs of historical assets, with its focus on the history of Italian art from the Middle Ages to modern times, are accessible online via the institute's online catalogues. Since 1990, the Bibliotheca Hertziana has awarded the Hanno and Ilse Hahn Prize every second year for outstanding merit in the field of Italian art and architectural history. The prize is named after the only son and daughter-in-law of the late president of the Max-Planck-Gesellschaft Otto Hahn, who were killed in an accident in France in 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908101", "title": "Carl Salser", "text": "Carl Salser\n\nCarl Walter Salser, Jr. (16 August 1921 – 11 April 2006) was an American author, businessperson and educator.\n\nSalser was born in Emporia, Kansas. He grew up in Corvallis, Oregon after his father left Kansas State Teacher's College (now Emporia State University) to become Dean of Education at Oregon State College (now Oregon State University (OSU)). He graduated from Corvallis High School and enrolled at Oregon State College.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II he served as a Navy Corpsman, stationed at the Naval Hospital in Corona, California before being ordered to the Pacific Theater of Operations for the assault on Okinawa. Following the war he joined the Naval Reserve, from which he retired as a lieutenant commander.\n\nAfter the war, he graduated from Oregon State, where he also met his future wife, Barbara Anderson (1926-2000), of Lake Oswego, Oregon. They opened a men's clothing store and a restaurant that also served the training table for the OSU college football team, before joining McGraw-Hill Publishing and moving to Portland, Oregon. He received his master's degree from OSU in 1956. Also in the mid-1950s he became editor-in-chief for Allied Publishers of Portland, and in 1960 took over a college of business (then Pacific Business College, now known as Capstone English Mastery Center) before forming the 501(c)(3) nonprofit Educational Research Associates in 1965.\n\nThe author or editor of more than 100 instructional titles, Salser authored two books on educational policy, \"A Tyrant in Cap and Gown\", and \"Public Education from A to Z\". He co-authored numerous titles in the use of the alphabetic shorthand system known as Personal Shorthand. Beginning in 1965 he led the development of the Individualized instruction system of school and classroom management.\n\nHe was appointed by President Ronald Reagan to the National Council on Educational Research (NCER) on 28 May 1982. Confirmed by the United States Senate, he served two terms on the Council until its purpose was changed and it became the National Advisory Council on Educational Research and Improvement.\n\nHe spent almost his entire life in Oregon. A lifelong Republican, he was manager for U.S. Senator Mark Hatfield's successful 1956 campaign for Oregon Secretary of State. He twice campaigned for a position in the Oregon House of Representatives, losing once in the primary and once in the general election.\n\nHe suffered a stroke in September 1991 and thereafter used a wheelchair. He died 11 April 2006. He was survived by three children, Mark Salser, Lori Fraser, and Linda Salser, and three grandchildren, Andrew Fraser, Alanna Fraser, and Matthew Salser.\n\n2. Mark Salser\n"}
{"id": "5099504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5099504", "title": "Carronade Island", "text": "Carronade Island\n\nCarronade Island lies off the northern (Kimberley) coast of Western Australia (). The small island in Napier Broome Bay owes its name to two swivel guns found there in 1916, mistakenly described as carronades at the time.\n\nIn July 1916, the Royal Australian Navy cruiser entered Napier Broome Bay on Australia’s north west coast. On a small island in the bay, a party from the ship found two bronze cannons, protruding from the ground and placed about six feet apart.\nThe two bronze guns, of different bore and design but both about one metre in length, were removed to Garden Island Naval dockyard. They were initially interpreted as \"part of the armament of a Spanish or Portuguese caravel,\" a conclusion also made by writer Kenneth McIntyre in 1977. McIntyre cited the guns as evidence to advance his theory of Portuguese discovery of Australia and described the cannons as \"the most tangible extant link with the first European discovery of Australia\".\n\nA detailed report by Jeremy Green of the Western Australian Museum has identified both of the guns as swivel guns. Using metallurgical examination, including X-ray and chemical analysis, the guns have been identified as of late 18th century South East Asian origin and likely to have arrived through Makassan contact with Australia. The claim that the more decorated gun displays a Portuguese \"rose and crown\" is incorrect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49018196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49018196", "title": "Charles Bayet", "text": "Charles Bayet\n\nCharles Marie Adolphe Louis Bayet (25 May 1849, Liège – 16 September 1918, Toulon) was a French historian, who was a specialist in Byzantine art.\n\nFrom 1868 he studied at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris, then enlisted for military service during the Franco-Prussian War. In late September 1871 he obtained French citizenship. After spending time studying in Rome, he became a member of the French School at Athens (1873). During the following year, with Louis Duchesne, he participated in a research expedition to Mount Athos.\n\nFrom 1881 to 1890 he was a professor of history and antiquities of the Middle Ages at the Faculty of Letters in Lyon. Within this time frame, he also became a professor of general art history at the École des Beaux Arts de Lyon (from 1886). In 1890 he was appointed rector at the Academy of Lille. From 1896 he served as director of primary schooling at the Ministry of Education, and several years later, became director of higher education (1902). Despite being in his mid-60s, he volunteered for military duty at the outbreak of war in 1914 – he succumbed to illness while serving as a lieutenant at the Macedonian Front and was compelled to return to France.\n\nIn 1883 he published \"L'art byzantin\", a comprehensive work on Byzantine art that involved its palaces, churches, paintings, enamels, ceramics, and mosaics.\n"}
{"id": "40674188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40674188", "title": "Costa Chekrezi", "text": "Costa Chekrezi\n\nCosta Chekrezi (31 March 1892 – 10 January 1959), also known as Constantin Anastas Chekrezi () was an Albanian patriot, historian, and publicist.\n\nChekrezi was born on 31 March 1892 in Ziçisht village, in the Upper Devoll region located near Korça (back then Ottoman Empire, now Albania).\nAfter finishing a 5-year school in his native village, he finished the Greek high school in the town of Korça in June 12, 1910. The school documents show he was awarded as \"excellent student in all subjects\", and earned a scholarship from the Ottoman government to attend (where he stayed for a year only till 1912) the law school in Thessaloniki, now Greece. The studies were interrupted by the start of the First World War. After the Albanian Declaration of Independence until 1914 Chekrezi lived in Vlorë where he worked as a secretary in the Civil Court of the town, later as an interpreter for the International Control Commission assigned near Ismail Qemali's government and later Prince Wied.\n\nWhen World War I started, Chekrezi emigrated to the US via Italy. Despite his young in age, only 23 years old, Costa Chekrezi became editor of the newspaper \"The Sun\" (), in Boston and was chief editor of the newspaper from 1915 to 1919. He also published monthly magazine \"Illyria\", and gave a huge contribution to the Vatra's monthly publication \"The Adriatic Review\", where he emphasized the atrocities over Albanians during World War I. Meanwhile, besides being a polyglot, he studied economics, public administration and English language at Harvard University. He graduated at 17 June 1918, with a \"Bachelor of Arts\" degree.\n<br>Constantine has also translated into Albanian, a short history of Albania, written by Frederick Gibert, which was published in Boston, and wrote a historical study named \"Albania, past and present\", published in 1919 in New York City which was translated and published in Albania only in 2012 during the 100th anniversary of Declaration of Independence.\n\nFor a period of two years, he has been a professor of history at Columbia University. According to Elsie he briefly returned to Albania in 1920 to participate in the Congress of Lushnje. In the years 1922-1932, has been the accredited representative of the Albanian Government (coming out of the Congress of Lushnje), with the title \"Albanian Commissioner in Washington\", also a member of the National Press Club in the U.S. In 1923, his English-Albanian dictionary came out.\n\nAfter returning in Albania in 1925, he would come in sharp conflict with King Zog, specifically to some concessions made in favor of the Italian-Albanian banks newly positioned as part of Zog's affiliation with Italy. Since the first meeting with Ahmet Zagolli, he criticized Albanian political relations with Belgrade as well. In 1929, he served as member of the first Council of State (), established on April 11 of that year. The following years will show him as an impressive publicist, editor of the newspapers \"Telegraf\" (\"Telegraph\") and \"Ora\" (\"Watch\"), where he was pushed to publish some pro-monarchy articles, but immediately after the announcement of the monarchy, Costa Chekrezi was arrested by direct orders of Koço Kota and sentenced to one year imprisonment. His newspapers, \"Telegraf\" and \"Ora\" were shut down forever.\n\nAfter being an active leader and participant of the Fier Revolt of 1935, he had to flee Albania towards Italy together with his friends Musa Kranja and Xhevahir Arapi on an Italian fishing boat. They reached Monopoli and were transferred to a prison in Bari for three month. There Chekrezi would write to Mussolini asking for his release. After three months they were released and gained the right of Political Asylum. Meanwhile in Albania, he was sentenced to death in abstention. While trying to form the Organization of Albanian Emigrants (), Chekrezi was arrested by the French government and surprisingly placed into the concentration camp of Vernet d' Ariege in France until 27 October 1941. It is not very clear why he was placed there and how he escaped from it. After that, he left for America.\n\nIt was 28 December 1941 when Chekrezi together with Tajar Zavalani formed in Boston \"Free Albania\" () organization trying to act like an Albanian Government in Exile, possibly with established connections with Office of Strategic Services, and similarly to what Vatra somehow had functioned during the World War I. He gave up this organization in 1945.\n<br>Costa Chekrezi has made efforts to maintain bridges between the Allies and Albania. In 1946, he was the one to receive a delegation headed by Tuk Jakova in New Yorker Hotel, and the second meeting with Mihal Prifti, where Costa suggested that the Albanian government should find the way to connect with the Western powers, especially USA, and abolish the \"friendly\" relations with Yugoslavia of Tito, drawing parallels with King Zog-Nikola Pašić agreements. In the autumn of 1950, he hosted a meeting with Albanian representatives Behar Shtylla and Vilson Progri at the Governor Clinton Hotel.\n\nIn 1951, he published the political analysis \"The third plan for partitioning Albania\" in Washington D.C.\n\nConstantin Chekrezi, was overshadowed for half a century by the communist regime; he died near Boston, on January 10, 1959, at the age of 66. At his funeral, Fan Noli would describe him as a \"statesman, who had struggled all his life for his nation, and a great Albanian guy who had to die poor\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53641457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53641457", "title": "David Young (cleric)", "text": "David Young (cleric)\n\nDavid Young (1844 - 1913) was a Wesleyan minister and historian.\n\nYoung was born on 3 November 1844, near Haverfordwest, later moving with his family to Pontlottyn. In 1893 Young published \"The Origin and History of Methodism in Wales\", a history of Wesleyanism in the country. David Young died on 4 August 1913, at Margate.\n"}
{"id": "37884695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37884695", "title": "Dwell time (military)", "text": "Dwell time (military)\n\nIn the military, dwell time is the amount of time that service members spend in their home station between deployments to war zones. Dwell time is designed to allow service members a mental and physical break from combat and to give them time with their families. It is an important component of long term military readiness.\n\nFrom the early days of the Global War on Terrorism until 2011, dwell time for American service members was reduced to a maximum of 12 months for most service members: \"Dwell time at home stations became nothing more than getting ready for the next deployment.\"\nIn October, 2011, the United States Department of Defense extended dwell time for U.S. soldiers to 24 months for every year deployed to a war zone.\n\nA 2012 study of over 65,000 service members found that longer periods at home between deployments reduced the incidence of post traumatic stress disorder. Another study found that longer dwell times were associated with a reduced risk of suicide.\n"}
{"id": "38324839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38324839", "title": "Einar Østvedt", "text": "Einar Østvedt\n\nEinar Østvedt (30 November 1903 – 11 April 1980) was a Norwegian historian and educator.\n\nEinar Østvedt was born in Skien in Telemark, Norway. During 1927-1928, he was resident student at the University of Besançon. He studied at the University of Oslo, graduating with his cand.philol. degree in 1930 and dr.philos. in 1946. He worked as a teacher in Skien from 1931 to 1971, except for a number of leaves. He studied in the United Kingdom in 1948, Harvard University in 1955, at Rome in 1963 and Copenhagen during 1964.\n\nHe published the book \"Telemark i norsk malerkunst\" in 1942, with illustrations by Harald Kihle. In 1946 he published his diaries from imprisonment during the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany. His thesis from 1946 was a treatment on Christian Magnus Falsen. In 1963 he published a biography of Dyre Vaa, and also the book \"Fløtning i Telemark gjennom 300 år\". He wrote several works on Henrik Ibsen, including twelve books. He was decorated Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav in 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "1297053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1297053", "title": "Eric Foner", "text": "Eric Foner\n\nEric Foner (; born February 7, 1943) is an American historian. He writes extensively on American political history, the history of freedom, the early history of the Republican Party, African American biography, Reconstruction, and historiography, and has been a member of the faculty at the Columbia University Department of History since 1982. He is the author of several textbooks commonly used in college-level American history courses across the United States. \n\nFoner is a leading contemporary historian of the post-Civil War Reconstruction period, having published \"Reconstruction: America's Unfinished Revolution, 1863–1877\" in 1989 and more than 10 other books on the topic. His online courses on \"The Civil War and Reconstruction,\" published in 2014, are available from Columbia University on ColumbiaX.\n\nIn 2011, Foner's \"\" (2010) won the Pulitzer Prize for History, the Lincoln Prize, and the Bancroft Prize. Foner previously won the Bancroft in 1989 for his book \"Reconstruction: America's Unfinished Revolution, 1863–1877\". In 2000, he was elected president of the American Historical Association. He was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 2018.\n\nFoner was born in New York City, New York, the son of Jewish parents Liza (née Kraitz), a high school art teacher, and historian Jack D. Foner, who was active in the trade union movement and the campaign for civil rights for African Americans. Eric Foner describes his father as his \"first great teacher,\" and recalls how,\n\ndeprived of his livelihood while I was growing up, he supported our family as a freelance lecturer. ... Listening to his lectures, I came to appreciate how present concerns can be illuminated by the study of the past—how the repression of the McCarthy era recalled the days of the Alien and Sedition Acts, the civil rights movement needed to be viewed in light of the great struggles of Black and White abolitionists, and in the brutal suppression of the Philippine insurrection at the turn of the century could be found the antecedents of American intervention in Vietnam. I also imbibed a way of thinking about the past in which visionaries and underdogs—Tom Paine, Wendell Phillips, Eugene V. Debs, and W. E. B. Du Bois—were as central to the historical drama as presidents and captains of industry, and how a commitment to social justice could infuse one's attitudes towards the past.\n\nFoner went to Columbia University for his B.A.; he was majoring in physics until he took a year-long seminar with James P. Shenton on the Civil War and Reconstruction during his junior year. \"It probably determined that most of my career has been focused on that period,\" he recalled years later. A year later, in 1963, Foner graduated \"summa cum laude\" as a history major. He studied at Oxford as a Kellett Fellow; he received a B.A. from Oriel College in 1965. Foner returned to Columbia for his Ph.D, where he worked under Richard Hofstadter; he finished in 1969.\n\nFrom 1973 to 1982, Foner served as a professor in the history department at City College and Graduate Center at City University of New York. In 1976 and 1977, he was a visiting professor of American History at Princeton University. In 1980, he was Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions at the University of Cambridge.\n\nAppointed the DeWitt Clinton Professor of History at Columbia University in 1988, a chair previously held by his mentor Richard Hofstadter, Foner specializes in 19th century American history, the American Civil War, slavery, and Reconstruction. He served as president of the Organization of American Historians in (1993–94), and of the American Historical Association (2000).\nHe is one of only two persons to serve as president of the Organization of American Historians, American Historical Association, and Society of American Historians.\n\nFoner has long been considered a leading authority on the Reconstruction Era of American history. In a seminal essay in \"American Heritage\" in October 1982, later reprinted in \"Reviews in American History\", Foner wrote,\n\nIn the past twenty years, no period of American history has been the subject of a more thoroughgoing reevaluation than Reconstruction—the violent, dramatic, and still controversial era following the Civil War. Race relations, politics, social life, and economic change during Reconstruction have all been reinterpreted in the light of changed attitudes toward the place of blacks within American society. If historians have not yet forged a fully satisfying portrait of Reconstruction as a whole, the traditional interpretation that dominated historical writing for much of this century has irrevocably been laid to rest. \n\nThat year, he gave the Walter L. Fleming Lectures in southern history, which were later published as \"Nothing but Freedom: Emancipation and Its Legacy.\"\n\nIn 1988, Foner published his definitive book \"Reconstruction: America's Unfinished Revolution, 1863–1877.\" It won the Bancroft Prize, the Francis Parkman Prize, the \"Los Angeles Times\" Book Award, the Avery O. Craven Prize, and the Lionel Trilling Prize.\n\n\"Foner has established himself as the leading authority on the Reconstruction period,\" wrote historian Michael Perman in reviewing \"Reconstruction\". \"This book is not simply a distillation of the secondary literature; it is a masterly account – broad in scope as well as rich in detail and insight. \"This is history written on a grand scale, a masterful treatment of one of the most complex periods of American history,\" David Herbert Donald wrote in \"The New Republic\". C. Vann Woodward, in \"The New York Review of Books\", wrote, \"Eric Foner has put together this terrible story with greater cogency and power, I believe, than has been brought to the subject heretofore.\" Foner has continued to lecture widely on Reconstruction and published several shorter versions of his major book, including \"A Short History of Reconstruction, 1863–1877\" (1990) and \"America's Reconstruction: People and Politics After the Civil War\" (1995).\n\nIn a 2009 essay, Foner pondered whether Reconstruction might have turned out differently.\n\n\"It is wrong to think that, during the Civil War, Lincoln embraced a single 'plan' of Reconstruction,\" he wrote. \"Lincoln had always been willing to work closely with all factions of his party, including the Radicals on numerous occasions. I think it is quite plausible to imagine Lincoln and Congress agreeing to a Reconstruction policy encompassing basic civil rights for blacks (as was enacted in 1866) plus limited black suffrage, along the lines he proposed just before his death.\"\n\nFoner's most recent summary of his views on the significance of Reconstruction was published in \"The New York Times\" in 2015.\n\nIn a \"New York Times\" op-ed, he criticised President Trump's tweet calling for the preservation of Confederate monuments and heritage, stating that they represented and glorified white supremacy rather than collective heritage.\n\nAs a visiting professor in Moscow in the early 1990s, Foner compared secessionist forces in the USSR with the secession movement in the U.S. in the 1860s. In a February 1991 article, Foner noted that the Baltic states claimed the right to secede because they had been unwillingly annexed. In addition, he believed that the Soviet Union did not protect minorities while it tried to nationalize the republics. Foner identified a threat to existing minority groups within the Baltic states, who were in turn threatened by the new nationalist movements.\n\nWith Olivia Mahoney, chief curator at the Chicago History Museum, Foner curated two prize-winning exhibitions on American history: \"A House Divided: America in the Age of Lincoln\", which opened at the Chicago History Museum in 1990, and \"America's Reconstruction: People and Politics After the Civil War,\" a traveling exhibit that opened at the Virginia Historical Society in 1995. He revised the presentation of American history at the Hall of Presidents at Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom, and Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln at Disneyland. He has served as consultant to several National Park Service historical sites and historical museums.\n\nFoner served as an expert witness for the University of Michigan's defense of affirmative action in its undergraduate and law school admissions (\"Gratz v. Bollinger\" and \"Grutter v. Bollinger\") considered by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2003.\n\nFoner serves on the editorial boards of \"Past and Present\" and \"The Nation\".\n\nFoner has written for \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"Los Angeles Times\", \"London Review of Books\", and other publications. In addition, he has spoken about history on television and radio, including \"Charlie Rose\", \"Book Notes\", and \"All Things Considered.\" He has appeared in historical documentaries on PBS and The History Channel. Foner contributed an essay and conversation with John Sayles in \"Past Imperfect: History According to the Movies\", published by the Society of American Historians in 1995. He was the historian in \"Freedom: A History of US\" on PBS in 2003.\n\nFoner has appeared frequently on popular media to discuss US history:\n\nThe professional awards which Foner has received indicate the respect given his work. Journalist Nat Hentoff described his \"Story of American Freedom\" \"an indispensable book that should be read in every school in the land.\" \"Eric Foner is one of the most prolific, creative, and influential American historians of the past 20 years,\" according to \"The Washington Post\". His work is \"brilliant, important\" a reviewer wrote in the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nIn a review of \"The Story of American Freedom\" in the \"New York Review of Books\", Theodore Draper disagreed with Foner's conclusions:\n\nIf the story of American freedom is told largely from the perspective of blacks and women, especially the former, it is not going to be a pretty tale. Yet most Americans thought of themselves not only as free but as the freest people in the world.\n\nJohn Patrick Diggins of the City University of New York wrote that Foner's \"Reconstruction: America's Unfinished Revolution, 1863–1877\", was a \"magisterial\" and \"moving\" narrative, but compared Foner's \"unforgiving\" view of America for its racist past to his notably different views on the fall of communism and Soviet history.\n\nFoner's most recent book \"Gateway to Freedom: The Hidden History of the Underground Railroad\" (2015) was judged \"Intellectually probing and emotionally resonant by the \"Los Angeles Times.\" His previous book \"The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery\" (2010) was described by \"Library Journal\" as \"Original and compelling. … In the vast library on Lincoln, Foner's book stands out as the most sensible and sensitive reading of Lincoln's lifetime involvement with slavery and the most insightful assessment of Lincoln's—and indeed America's—imperative to move toward freedom lest it be lost. An essential work for all Americans.\"\n\nIn 1989, Foner received the Avery O. Craven Award from the Organization of American Historians. In 1991, Foner received the Great Teacher Award from the \"Society of Columbia Graduates\". In 1995, he was named Scholar of the Year by the New York Council for the Humanities. He is an elected fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and of the British Academy.\n\nFoner has taught at Cambridge University as Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions, at Oxford University as Harmsworth Professor of American History, where he is also an honorary fellow of the Rothermere American Institute, and at Moscow State University as Fulbright Professor.\n\nIn 2007, the alumni of Columbia College voted to give Foner the John Jay Award for Distinguished Professional Achievement. In 2011, his book \"The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery\" won the Pulitzer Prize for history, the Bancroft Prize and the Lincoln Prize.\n\nFoner has been awarded honorary doctorates from Iona College; the State University of New York, Purchase; Queen Mary University of London, Dartmouth College, and Lehigh University.\n\nFoner was inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the State's highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in 2009 as a Bicentennial Laureate.\n\nIn 1965 Foner married screenwriter Naomi Foner Gyllenhaal, from whom he divorced in 1977.\n\nIn 1982 Foner married Lynn Garafola, professor of dance at Barnard College and dance critic, historian, and curator. They have one daughter.\n\nEric Foner's paternal uncles are the late Marxist labor historian Philip S. Foner (his father's twin brother) and labor activists Henry Foner and Moe Foner.\n\nFoner has frequently explored teaching moments that historians can use. He wrote, \"Like all momentous events, September 11 is a remarkable teaching opportunity. But only if we use it to open rather than to close debate. Critical intellectual analysis is our responsibility—to ourselves and to our students.\"\n\n\"[S]uccessful teaching rests both on a genuine and selfless concern for students and on the ability to convey to them a love of history.\"\n\n\"In a global age, the forever-unfinished story of American freedom must become a conversation with the entire world, not a complacent monologue with ourselves.\"\n\nSome of his books have been translated into Portuguese, Italian, and Chinese.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33862505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33862505", "title": "Fernand Bisson de la Roque", "text": "Fernand Bisson de la Roque\n\nFernand Bisson de La Roque (30 June 1885 in Bourseville (Somme) – 1 May 1958) was a French Egyptologist and archaeologist. His notable excavations include\n1921 to 1924 at Djédefrê pyramid at Abu Rawash, 1925 to 1932 at the Temple of Monthu at Medamud, northeast of Thebes and 1933 to 1950 at the Temple of Monthu at Tod (formerly Djerty) southeast of Thebes.\n\n"}
{"id": "11801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11801", "title": "Filippo Tommaso Marinetti", "text": "Filippo Tommaso Marinetti\n\nFilippo Tommaso Emilio Marinetti (; 22 December 1876 – 2 December 1944) was an Italian poet, editor, art theorist, and founder of the Futurist movement. He was associated with the utopian and Symbolist artistic and literary community Abbaye de Créteil between 1907 and 1908. Marinetti is best known as the author of the first \"Futurist Manifesto\", which was written and published in 1909; and also of the Fascist Manifesto.\n\nEmilio Angelo Carlo Marinetti (some documents give his name as \"Filippo Achille Emilio Marinetti\") spent the first years of his life in Alexandria, Egypt, where his father (Enrico Marinetti) and his mother (Amalia Grolli) lived together \"more uxorio\" (as if married). Enrico was a lawyer from Piedmont, and his mother was the daughter of a literary professor from Milan. They had come to Egypt in 1865, at the invitation of Khedive Isma'il Pasha, to act as legal advisers for foreign companies that were taking part in his modernization program.\n\nHis love for literature developed during the school years. His mother was an avid reader of poetry, and introduced the young Marinetti to the Italian and European classics. At age seventeen he started his first school magazine, \"Papyrus\"; the Jesuits threatened to expel him for publicizing Émile Zola's scandalous novels in the school.\n\nHe first studied in Egypt then in Paris, obtaining a \"baccalauréat\" degree in 1894 at the Sorbonne, and in Italy, graduating in law at the University of Pavia in 1899.\n\nHe decided not to be a lawyer but to develop a literary career. He experimented with every type of literature (poetry, narrative, theatre, \"words in liberty\"), signing everything \"Filippo Tommaso Marinetti\".\n\nMarinetti and Constantin Brâncuși were visitors of the Abbaye de Créteil c. 1908 along with young writers like Roger Allard (one of the first to defend Cubism), Pierre Jean Jouve, and Paul Castiaux, who wanted to publish their works through the Abbaye. The Abbaye de Créteil was a \"phalanstère\" community founded in the autumn of 1906 by the painter Albert Gleizes, and the poets , , Alexandre Mercereau and Charles Vildrac. The movement drew its inspiration from the \"Abbaye de Thélème,\" a fictional creation by Rabelais in his novel \"Gargantua\". It was closed down by its members early in 1908.\n\nMarinetti is known best as the author of the \"Futurist Manifesto\", which he wrote in 1909. It was published in French on the front page of the most prestigious French daily newspaper, \"Le Figaro\", on 20 February 1909. In \"The Founding and Manifesto of Futurism\", Marinetti declared that \"Art, in fact, can be nothing but violence, cruelty, and injustice.\" Georges Sorel, who influenced the entire political spectrum from anarchism to Fascism, also argued for the importance of violence. Futurism had both anarchist and Fascist elements; Marinetti later became an active supporter of Benito Mussolini.\n\nMarinetti, who admired speed, had a minor car accident outside Milan in 1908 when he veered into a ditch to avoid two cyclists. He referred to the accident in the Futurist Manifesto: the Marinetti who was helped out of the ditch was a new man, determined to end the pretense and decadence of the prevailing Liberty style. He discussed a new and strongly revolutionary programme with his friends, in which they should end every artistic relationship with the past, \"destroy the museums, the libraries, every type of academy\". Together, he wrote, \"We will glorify war—the world's only hygiene—militarism, patriotism, the destructive gesture of freedom-bringers, beautiful ideas worth dying for, and scorn for woman\".\n\nThe Futurist Manifesto was read and debated all across Europe, but Marinetti's first 'Futurist' works were not as successful. In April, the opening night of his drama \"Le Roi bombance\" (The Feasting King), written in 1905, was interrupted by loud, derisive whistling by the audience... and by Marinetti himself, who thus introduced another element of Futurism, \"the desire to be heckled.\" Marinetti did, however, fight a duel with a critic he considered too harsh.\n\nHis drama \"La donna è mobile\" (Poupées électriques), first presented in Turin, was not successful either. Nowadays, the play is remembered through a later version, named \"Elettricità sessuale\" (Sexual Electricity), and mainly for the appearance onstage of humanoid automatons, ten years before the Czech writer Karel Čapek would invent the term \"robot\".\nIn 1910 his first novel, \"Mafarka il futurista\", was cleared of all charges by an obscenity trial. That year, Marinetti discovered some allies in three young painters (Umberto Boccioni, Carlo Carrà, Luigi Russolo), who adopted the Futurist philosophy. Together with them (and with poets such as Aldo Palazzeschi), Marinetti began a series of Futurist Evenings, theatrical spectacles in which Futurists declaimed their manifestos in front of a crowd that in part attended the performances in order to throw vegetables at them.\n\nThe most successful \"happening\" of that period was the publicization of the \"Manifesto Against Past-Loving Venice\" in Venice. In the flier, Marinetti demands \"fill(ing) the small, stinking canals with the rubble from the old, collapsing and leprous palaces\" to \"prepare for the birth of an industrial and militarized Venice, capable of dominating the great Adriatic, a great Italian lake.\"\n\nIn 1911, the Italo-Turkish War began and Marinetti departed for Libya as war correspondent for a French newspaper. His articles were eventually collected and published in \"The Battle of Tripoli\". He then covered the First Balkan War of 1912–13, witnessing the surprise success of Bulgarian troops against the Ottoman Empire in the Siege of Adrianople. In this period he also made a number of visits to London, which he considered 'the Futurist city par excellence', and where a number of exhibitions, lectures and demonstrations of Futurist music were staged. However, although a number of artists, including Wyndham Lewis, were interested in the new movement, only one British convert was made, the young artist C.R.W. Nevinson. Nevertheless, Futurism was an important influence upon Lewis's Vorticist philosophy.\n\nAbout the same time Marinetti worked on a very anti-Roman Catholic and anti-Austrian verse-novel, \"Le monoplan du Pape\" (\"The Pope's Aeroplane\", 1912) and edited an anthology of futurist poets. But his attempts to renew the style of poetry did not satisfy him. So much so that, in his foreword to the anthology, he declared a new revolution: it was time to be done with traditional syntax and to use \"words in freedom\" (\"parole in libertà\"). His sound-poem \"Zang Tumb Tumb\", an account of the Battle of Adrianople, exemplifies words in freedom. Recordings can be heard of Marinetti reading some of his sound poems: \"Battaglia, Peso + Odore\" (1912); \"Dune, parole in libertà\" (1914); \"La Battaglia di Adrianopoli\" (1926) (recorded 1935).\n\nMarinetti agitated for Italian involvement in the World War I, and once Italy was engaged, promptly volunteered for service. In the Fall of 1915 he and several other Futurists who were members of the Lombard Volunteer Cyclists were stationed at Lake Garda, in Trentino province, high in the mountains along the Italo-Austrian border. They endured several weeks of fighting in harsh conditions before the cyclists units, deemed inappropriate for mountain warfare, were disbanded.\n\nMarinetti spent most of 1916 supporting Italy's war effort with speeches, journalism, and theatrical work, then returned to military service as a regular army officer in 1917. In May of that year he was seriously wounded while serving with an artillery battalion on the Isonzo front; he returned to service after a long recovery, and participated in the decisive Italian victory at Vittorio Veneto in October 1918.\n\nAfter an extended courtship, in 1923 Marinetti married Benedetta Cappa (1897–1977), a writer and painter and a pupil of Giacomo Balla. Born in Rome, she had joined the Futurists in 1917. They'd met in 1918, moved in together in Rome, and chose to marry only to avoid legal complications on a lecture tour of Brazil. They would have three daughters: Vittoria, Ala, and Luce.\n\nCappa and Marinetti collaborated on a genre of mixed-media assemblages in the mid-1920s they called \"tattilismo\" (\"Tactilism\"), and she was a strong proponent and practitioner of the aeropittura movement after its inception in 1929. She also produced three experimental novels. Cappa's major public work is likely a series of five murals at the Palermo Post Office (1926–1935) for the Fascist public-works architect Angiolo Mazzoni.\n\nIn early 1918 he founded the \"Partito Politico Futurista\" or Futurist Political Party, which only a year later merged with Benito Mussolini's \"Fasci Italiani di Combattimento\". Marinetti was one of the first affiliates of the Italian Fascist Party. In 1919 he co-wrote with Alceste De Ambris the Fascist Manifesto, the original manifesto of Italian Fascism. He opposed Fascism's later exaltation of existing institutions, terming them \"reactionary,\" and, after walking out of the 1920 Fascist party congress in disgust, withdrew from politics for three years. However, he remained a notable force in developing the party philosophy throughout the regime's existence. For example, at the end of the \"Congress of Fascist Culture\" that was held in Bologna on 30 March 1925, Giovanni Gentile addressed Sergio Panunzio on the need to define Fascism more purposefully by way of Marinetti's opinion, stating, \"Great spiritual movements make recourse to precision when their primitive inspirations—what F. T. Marinetti identified this morning as artistic, that is to say, the creative and truly innovative ideas, from which the movement derived its first and most potent impulse—have lost their force. We today find ourselves at the very beginning of a new life and we experience with joy this obscure need that fills our hearts—this need that is our inspiration, the genius that governs us and carries us with it.\"\n\nAs part of his campaign to overturn tradition, Marinetti also attacked traditional Italian food. His \"Manifesto of Futurist Cooking\" was published in the Turin \"Gazzetta del Popolo\" on 28 December 1930. Arguing that \"People think, dress and act in accordance with what they drink and eat\", Marinetti proposed wide-ranging changes to diet. He condemned pasta, blaming it for lassitude, pessimism and lack of virility, and promoted the eating of Italian-grown rice. In this, as in other ways, his proposed Futurist cooking was nationalistic, rejecting foreign foods and food names. It was also militaristic, seeking to stimulate men to be fighters.\n\nMarinetti also sought to increase creativity. His attraction to whatever was new made scientific discoveries appealing to him, but his views on diet were not scientifically based. He was fascinated with the idea of processed food, predicting that someday pills would replace food as a source of energy, and calling for the creation of \"plastic complexes\" to replace natural foods. Food, in turn, would become a matter of artistic expression. Many of the meals Marinetti described and ate resemble performance art, such as the \"Tactile Dinner\", recreated in 2014 for an exhibit at the Guggenheim Museum. Participants wore pajamas decorated with sponge, sandpaper, and aluminum, and ate salads without using cutlery.\n\nDuring the Fascist regime Marinetti sought to make Futurism the official state art of Italy but failed to do so. Mussolini was personally uninterested in art and chose to give patronage to numerous styles in order to keep artists loyal to the regime. Opening the exhibition of art by the Novecento Italiano group in 1923, he said: \"I declare that it is far from my idea to encourage anything like a state art. Art belongs to the domain of the individual. The state has only one duty: not to undermine art, to provide humane conditions for artists, to encourage them from the artistic and national point of view.\" Mussolini's mistress, Margherita Sarfatti, successfully promoted the rival Novecento Group, and even persuaded Marinetti to be part of its board.\n\nIn Fascist Italy, modern art was tolerated and even approved by the Fascist hierarchy. Towards the end of the 1930s, some Fascist ideologues (for example, the ex-Futurist Ardengo Soffici) wished to import the concept of \"degenerate art\" from Germany to Italy and condemned modernism, although their demands were ignored by the regime. In 1938, hearing that Adolf Hitler wanted to include Futurism in a traveling exhibition of degenerate art, Marinetti persuaded Mussolini to refuse to let it enter Italy.\n\nOn 17 November 1938, Italy passed The Racial Laws, discriminating against Italian Jews, much as the discrimination pronounced in the Nuremberg Laws. The anti-Semitic trend in Italy resulted in attacks against modern art, judged too foreign, too radical and anti-nationalist. In 11 January 1939 issue of the Futurist journal \"Artecrazia\" Marinetti expressed his condemnation of such attacks on modern art, noting Futurism is both Italian and nationalist, not foreign, and that there are no Jews in Futurism. Furthermore, he claimed Jews were not active in the development of modern art. Regardless, the Italian state shut down \"Artecrazia\".\n\nMarinetti made numerous attempts to ingratiate himself with the regime, becoming less radical and avant garde with each attempt. He relocated from Milan to Rome. He became an academician despite his condemnation of academies, saying, \"It is important that Futurism be represented in the Academy.\" He was initially an atheist, but by the mid 1930's he had come to accept the influence of the Catholic Church on Italian society. In \"Gazzetta del Popolo\", 21 June 1931, Marinetti expressed his view that it was essential for Futurists to create masterpieces of sacred art, proclaiming that \"Only Futurist artists...are able to express clearly...the simultaneous dogmas of the Catholic faith, such as the Holy Trinity, the Immaculate Conception and Christ’s Calvary.\" In his later works \"L'aeropoema di Gesù\" (\"The Aeropoem of Jesus\") and \"Quarto d'ora di poesia per the X Mas\" (\"A Fifteen Minutes' Poem of the X Mas\"), Marinetti sought to reconcile his newfound love for God and his passion for the action that accompanied him throughout his life.\n\nThere were other contradictions in his character: despite his nationalism, he was international, educated in Egypt and France, writing his first poems in French, publishing the Futurist Manifesto in a French newspaper and traveling to promote his ideas.\n\nMarinetti volunteered for active service in the Second Italo-Abyssinian War and the Second World War, serving on the Eastern Front for a few weeks in the Summer and Autumn of 1942 at the age of 65.\n\nHe died of cardiac arrest in Bellagio on 2 December 1944 while working on a collection of poems praising the wartime achievements of the Decima Flottiglia MAS.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18692740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18692740", "title": "Francisco Monterde", "text": "Francisco Monterde\n\nFrancisco de Asís Monterde García Icazbalceta (August 9, 1894 in Mexico City – February 27, 1985 in Mexico City) was a prolific and multifaceted Mexican writer whose career spanned over fifty years. He was an important promoter of the arts and culture in Mexico in the years following the Revolution.\n\nHis parents were Francisco de Asís Ángel María Monterde y Adalid and María Trinidad de los Dolores García Icazbalceta y Travesi de Monterde, aristocrats who both died when he was still young. He studied dentistry but never practiced. In 1924 he founded and edited the short-lived Mexican avant-garde cultural magazine \"Antena\". In 1925 he famously deciphered a letter that conquistador Hernán Cortés left written in code. He wrote, in addition to plays and poetry, various novels set in colonial Mexico, a genre known as \"colonialista\". In 1930 he created in conjunction with Alejandro Gómez Arias, the department of Mexican and Hispano-American Literature at the National Preparatory School. He was a founding member in 1938 of the Asociación Mexicana de Críticos de Teatro (AMCT). He belonged to the \"grupo de los siete autores\" (group of seven authors), a circle of dramatists active in the 1950s who revived the theatrical arts in Mexico. He was an admirer of José Juan Tablada and an imitator of the latter's haiku-inspired poetry (a style at the time referred to as \"haikai\"). He held important posts in the Ministry of Public Education. He was from 1922-65 a professor of Spanish and Latin-American literature at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM), his alma mater (M.A. 1941, Ph.D. 1942). He served as subdirector of the Biblioteca Nacional de México; as head librarian of the Museo Nacional de Antropología e Historia (1931); and as director of the Imprenta Universitaria de la UNAM (UNAM University Press). He was director of the Centro Mexicano de Escritores from 1973-85.\n\nMonterde was a numerary member (seat 2) of the Academia Mexicana de la Lengua and served as its director from 1960-72.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14527944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14527944", "title": "George Louis Beer", "text": "George Louis Beer\n\nGeorge Louis Beer (July 26, 1872 – March 15, 1920) was a renowned American historian of the \"Imperial school\".\n\nBorn in Staten Island, New York, to an affluent family that was prominent in New York's German-Jewish community, Beer's father owned a successful tobacco importing business. He studied at Columbia University, where he received the A.B. degree (1892) and then an A.M. degree in 1893. Beer's master's thesis (\"The Commercial Policy of England Toward the American Colonies\") was supervised by Professor Herbert Levi Osgood and was immediately published in the \"Columbia University Studies in History, Economics and Public Law\". He taught European History at Columbia from 1893 to 1897 while also working in the tobacco business. After retiring from business in 1903, he devoted his time to extensive research in British archives, and wrote three highly regarded and influential books on the British-American colonial period. In 1913 he was the first Loubat Prize recipient for \"The Origins of the British Colonial System, 1578-1660\", one of those books. His work \"The English Speaking Peoples\", was published in 1917. He stressed the successful workings of the commercial dimensions of the British Empire and was part of the \"Imperial School\" which emphasized the economic benefits and efficient administration of the Empire. He was American correspondent of the British \"Round Table Journal\".\n\nBeer served as colonial expert to President Wilson's American Commission of Inquiry during World War I and attended the Paris Peace Conference as a member of the American Commission to Negotiate Peace, for which he was chief of the Colonial Division in 1918-1919. He was also a member of the Mandates Commission of the League of Nations, and was appointed director of the Mandatory Section of the League's Secretariat in 1919.\n\nBeer married Edith Hellman on November 11, 1896. She was the niece of one of his early mentors at Columbia, E. R. A. Seligman, who had also married Beer's sister. Beer and his wife had one daughter, and the marriage lasted until Beer's untimely death on March 15, 1920.\n\nBeer left a bequest to establish a prize recognizing outstanding historical writing relating to European international history since 1895. American citizens or permanent residents are eligible, for books published in the year preceding the award. The George Louis Beer Prize has been awarded in most years since 1923.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31831056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31831056", "title": "Graham Dodsworth", "text": "Graham Dodsworth\n\nGraham Dodsworth is an Australian folklorist, performer of folk songs, and an oral history interviewer for the National Library of Australia and the National Film and Sound Archive.\n\nBorn 1956 in the Yallourn Hospital in Gippsland, Victoria, Graham Dodsworth lived his first five years in Moe after which his family moved to Vermont in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne, where he attended Vermont Primary and Secondary Schools. Dodsworth moved to Hawthorn in 1969 and while attending Kew High School first heard Danny Spooner conducting workshops demonstrating attitudes to the industrial revolution in England, transportation and other aspects of Australian history via folk song performance.\n\nDodsworth began a performance career in 1971 with performances at The Outpost Inn, Frank Traynors, The Dan O'Connell Hotel, and Fogarty's Union Hotel in Melbourne. In 2001 he achieved a Master of Arts degree in Australian Studies from Monash University, his thesis being entitled \"The Nature of Folk Song in Australia: Origins and Transmission\". He was awarded the 2005 National Library of Australia National Folk Festival Fellowship culminating in a concert in the Budawang Theatre at the National Folk Festival and in the foyer of the National Library of Australia in 2005.\n\nDodsworth demonstrated the results of the above-mentioned fellowship research at the 2007 Conference of the Australasian Sound Recording Association, which also explored representation and portrayal techniques by national institutions.\n\nDodsworth has written many articles for the \"Australian Folklore Journal\" \nInterviewed by Peter Parkhill for the Peter Parkhill sound collection in the National Library .\nCo-edited the publication, 'The Centre', 40 years of Banyule Community Health. \n\n"}
{"id": "19599103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19599103", "title": "Great Migration of Canada", "text": "Great Migration of Canada\n\nThe Great Migration of Canada (also known as the Great Migration from Britain) was a period of high immigration to Canada from 1815 to 1850, involving over 800,000 immigrants. Though Europe was becoming richer through the Industrial Revolution, population growth made the relative number of jobs low, forcing many to look to the New World for economic success, especially Canada and America.\n\nIn the late 18th and early 19th century, there occurred a transition in parts of Great Britain's previously manual-labour-based economy towards machine-based manufacturing. It started with the mechanization of the textile industries, the development of iron-making techniques and the increased use of refined coal. Though the Revolution began an era of expanded economic growth and higher standards of living, it was at the same time met with a rapid population explosion. A slow rise in quality of living standards throughout the past two hundred years allowed more children to survive and made child bearing more economic. Jobs that were previously done by poor peasants could now be done even cheaper by machinery, and this led to the loss of many jobs. The combined effects made it difficult for some to find jobs, leading them to look to the colonies in the Americas for work.\n\nBecause the Industrial Revolution began in Britain, the first (and therefore the majority of) settlers were English-speaking British. Sixty percent of these immigrants to Canada were British. This made them the largest group in Canada. The Irish came first as workers, or navvies in the 1820-40s mostly to Ontario, Quebec and New Brunswick, later to escape the Great Potato Famine.\n\nOther people from other countries migrated as well. Americans went to British Columbia in order to look for gold, a material that was quickly evaporating because of the California gold rush. Chinese went to British Columbia too in order to help build the Canadian Pacific Railway, and to escape war and famine in their own country. These migrations can be considered apart from those in earlier times.\n\nThe Great Migration had profound impacts on Canadian culture, and identity. Before 1815, 80% of English speaking Canadians were exiles or immigrants from the 13 American colonies or their descendants. Because of this until the 1830s English Canada had pronounced American cultural 'flavor' in spite of the political divide over membership in the British Empire and independence. This may account even today for many cultural similarities. At the beginning of the Great Migration, the Canadiens, Canadians of French descent, outnumbered those of British descent. The total population of the provinces of Canada was approximately half a million. At the end the period, the English Canadian population was double that of the French Canadian population out of a total of 2.4 million. The British Canadians also expanded into Lower Canada, which caused contentions with the French Canadian subjects. Crowded conditions on immigrant ships led to periodic outbreaks in diseases such as cholera in Lower Canada which spread to local urban populations and resulted in increased use of quarantine facilities such as Grosse Isle, Quebec and Partridge Island, New Brunswick.\n"}
{"id": "2481216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2481216", "title": "Guldengroschen", "text": "Guldengroschen\n\nThe Guldengroschen was a large silver coin originally minted in Tirol in 1486. \n\nThe Guldengroschen's name comes from the fact that it has an equivalent denomination value in silver relative to that of the goldgulden (60 kreuzer). In the latter years of the 1470s and early years of the 1480s Sigismund of Austria issued decrees that reformed the poor state of his region's coinage by improving the silver fineness back to a level not seen in centuries (.937 pure) and created denominations larger than the ubiquitous, but fairly low valued Groschen of 4 to 6 Kreuzer that were in use. \n\nIn 1484, small numbers of \"half guldengroschens\" valued at 30 kreuzer were issued. This was a revolutionary leap in denomination from the smaller pieces, and surpassed even the large testones of Italy which were the highest weight coins in use. Finally in 1486 the full sized guldengroschen of 60 kreuzers was put into circulation and it was soon nicknamed \"guldiner\". For a long time thereafter such coins were also called \"unciales\" because their actual silver weight was very nearly one ounce. As large quantities of silver became available other states began issuing guldiners of their own. Bern, in modern-day Switzerland was one of the earliest to follow Tirol by issuing its guldiners in 1493. In 1500, Saxony's mint at Annaberg took minting of guldiners to new heights and the economies of central Europe welcomed these large new coins. \n\nThe original Tiroler guldiner was designed so that eight coins minted would weigh in pure silver at one Tiroler Mark. This was fine for Tirol, but much of Europe was accustomed to measuring by the more widely used Cologne mark. The penultimate development of the guldiner occurred in 1518 when the Joachimsthal mint in Habsburg-controlled Bohemia slightly altered the weight of the coin from 31.93 g down to 29.20 g. This made it possible to mint nine guldiners to have the silver weight equivalent of one Cologne Mark, rather than the eight in Tirol. This new coin was known as the Joachimsthaler (Joachimsthal guldiner), but like the guldengroschen being contracted to guldiner, the joachimsthaler became known simply as the thaler. This new coin was an instant success and was the great grandfather of many other similar weight coins like the daalder, dollar, tolar, tallero, etc.\n\nGuldengroschen itself, has been the main motive for many collectors coins and medals. One of the most recent is the Austrian 700 Years City of Hall in Tyrol commemorative coin, minted on January 29, 2003. The reverse side of the coin shows the Guldiner silver coin. However, the design is negative, representing a coin die, as a reference to Hall’s history as a significant centre for minting coins. \n"}
{"id": "24118466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24118466", "title": "Hussein Sheikh Ahmed Kaddare", "text": "Hussein Sheikh Ahmed Kaddare\n\nHussein Sheikh Ahmed Kaddare (, February 1, 2015) was a Somali inventor.\n\nKaddare was born in the town of Adale in the Middle Shebelle region of Somalia in 1934 to an Abgaal Hawiye family. In 1953, he created the Kaddare script, an orthography named after him that was used to transcribe the Somali language He died on February 1, 2015 in Mogadishu after battling an unspecified illness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51327656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51327656", "title": "Interwar Britain", "text": "Interwar Britain\n\nInterwar Britain (1919–1939) was a period of peace and relative economic stagnation. In politics the Liberal Party collapsed and the Labour Party became the main challenger to the dominant Conservative Party throughout the period. The Great Depression impacted Britain less severely economically and politically than other major nations, although there were severe pockets of long-term unemployment and hardship, especially in mining districts and in Scotland and North West England.\n\nHistorian Arthur Marwick sees a radical transformation of British society resulting from the Great War, a deluge that swept away many old attitudes and brought in a more egalitarian society. He sees the famous literary pessimism of the 1920s as misplaced, arguing there were major positive long-term consequences of the war to British society. He points to an energized self-consciousness among workers that quickly built up the Labour Party, the coming of partial women's suffrage, and an acceleration of social reform and state control of the economy. He sees a decline of deference toward the aristocracy and established authority in general, and the weakening among youth of traditional restraints on individual moral behaviour. The chaperone faded away; village chemists sold contraceptives. Marwick says that class distinctions softened, national cohesion increased, and British society became more equal.\n\nThe Representation of the People Act 1918 finally gave Britain universal manhood suffrage at age 21, with no property qualifications. Even more dramatically it opened up woman suffrage for most women over the age of 30. In 1928, all women were covered on the same terms as men. With the emergence of revolutionary forces, most notably in Bolshevik Russia and Socialist Germany, but also in Hungary, Italy and elsewhere, revolution to overthrow established elites and aristocracies was in the air. The Labour Party largely controlled working-class politics, and it strongly supported the government in London and opposed violent revolution. Conservatives were especially worried about \"Red Clydeside\" in industrial Scotland. Their fears were misplaced, for there was no organized attempt at any revolution. Indeed, the far left white working men in Red Clydeside were chiefly concerned with excluding blacks and women from good jobs.\n\nNevertheless, there were concerns about republicanism. The king and his top advisors were deeply concerned about the republican threat to the British monarchy, so much so that it was a factor in the king's decision not to rescue his cousin the overthrown Tsar Nicholas II of Russia. Nervous conservatives associated republicanism with the rise of socialism and the growing labour movement. Their concerns, although exaggerated, resulted in a redesign of the monarchy's social role to be more inclusive of the working class and its representatives, a dramatic change for George, who was most comfortable with naval officers and landed gentry. In fact the socialists by 1911 no longer believed in their anti-monarchy slogans and took a wait-and-see attitude toward George V. They were ready to come to terms with the monarchy if it took the first step. During the war George took that step; he made nearly 300 visits to shipyards and munitions factories, chatting with and congratulating ordinary workers on their hard work for the war effort. He adopted a more democratic stance that crossed class lines and brought the monarchy closer to the public. The king also cultivated friendly relations with leading Labour party politicians and trade union officials. George V's abandonment of social aloofness conditioned the royal family's behaviour and enhanced its popularity during the economic crises of the 1920s and for over two generations thereafter. For example, in 1924 the king proved willing, in the absence of a clear majority for any one of the three parties, to replace Conservative Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin with Ramsay MacDonald, the first Labour Party prime minister. King George's tactful and understanding reception of the MacDonald government allayed the suspicions of the party's supporters throughout the nation.\n\nAn armed insurrection by Irish republicans known as the Easter Rising took place in Dublin during Easter Week, 1916. It was badly organized, and quickly suppressed by the Army. The government responded with harsh repression, 2000 arrests, and quick execution of 15 leaders. The Catholic Irish then underwent a dramatic change of mood, and shifted to demand vengeance and independence. In 1917 Lloyd George called the 1917–18 Irish Convention in an attempt to settle the outstanding Home Rule for Ireland issue. It had little support. The upsurge in republican sympathies in Ireland following the Easter Rising coupled with Lloyd George's disastrous attempt to extend conscription to Ireland in April 1918 led to the wipeout of the old Irish Home Rule Party at the December 1918 election. They had supported the British war effort and were now displaced by Sinn Féin, which had mobilised grass-roots opposition to helping the British rule. Sinn Féin MPs did not take up their seats in the British Parliament, instead setting up their own new parliament in Dublin, and immediately declared an Irish Republic. \n\nBritish policy was confused and contradictory, as the cabinet could not decide on war or peace, sending in enough force to commit atrocities that angered Catholics in Ireland and America, and Liberals in Britain, but not enough to suppress the rebels outside the cities. Lloyd George waxed hot and cold, denouncing murderers one day, but eventually negotiating with them. He sent in 40,000 soldiers as well as newly formed para-military units -- the \"Black and Tans\" and the Auxiliaries -- to reinforce the professional police (the Royal Irish Constabulary). British firepower prevailed in the cities forcing the Irish Republican Army (IRA) (the paramilitary force of Sinn Féin) into hiding. However the IRA controlled much of the countryside and set up an alternative local government. The British units were poorly coordinated while Michael Collins designed a highly effective organization for the IRA that used informers to destroy the British intelligence system by assassinating its leadership. Although it was called \"Irish War of Independence\" historians generally agree that it was quite unlike the later Irish Civil War that was fought in 1922–23 between the forces of Collins and Éamon de Valera. The 1919–21 clash \"was no war in any conventional sense of the term, but a highly contingent, very small-scale and low-intensity conflict in which assassination was as important as ambush or fixed battle.\" \n\nLloyd George finally solved the crisis with the Government of Ireland Act 1920 which partitioned Ireland into Southern Ireland and Northern Ireland in May 1921. Sinn Féin won control of the south and agreed to the Anglo-Irish Treaty in December 1921 with Irish leaders. Collins took power when de Valera refused to sign and led a breakaway faction. Under the treaty southern Ireland seceded in 1922 to form the Irish Free State. Meanwhile, the Unionists under Edward Carson controlled Ulster and Northern Ireland remained loyal to London. By 1922 the Irish situation had stabilized, and no longer played a major role in British politics. Nevertheless, disputes sputtered for decades regarding the exact relationship to the monarchy, a trade war in the 1930s, and British use of naval ports. The Irish Free State cut many of its ties to Britain in 1937. As the Republic of Ireland it was one of a handful of neutrals in Europe in the Second World War.\n\nTwo major programmes dealing with unemployment and housing that permanently expanded the welfare state passed in 1919 and 1920 with surprisingly little debate, even as the Conservatives dominated parliament. \n\nThe Unemployment Insurance Act 1920 expanded the provisions of the National Insurance Act 1911. It set up the dole system that provided 39 weeks of unemployment benefits to practically the entire civilian working population except domestic servants, farm workers, and civil servants. Funded in part by weekly contributions from both employers and employed, it provided weekly payments of 15s for unemployed men and 12s for unemployed women. It passed at a time of very low unemployment. Historian C. L. Mowat called these laws \"Socialism by the back door,\" and notes how surprised politicians were when the costs to the Treasury soared during the high unemployment of 1921.\n\nThe rapid expansion of housing was a major success story of the interwar years, standing in sharp contrast to the United States, where new housing construction practically collapsed after 1929. The total housing stock In England and Wales was 7.6 million in 1911; 8.0 million in 1921; 9.4 million in 1931; and 11.3 million in 1939.\n\nThe influential Tudor Walters Report of 1918 set the standards for council house design and location for the next 90 years. It recommended housing in short terraces, spaced at at a density of 12 to the acre. With the Housing, Town Planning, &c. Act 1919 Lloyd George set up a system of government housing that followed his 1918 campaign promises of \"homes fit for heroes.\" Also known as the \"Addison Act,\" it required local authorities to survey their housing needs, and start building houses to replace slums. The treasury subsidized the low rents. Older women could now vote. Local politicians consulted with them and in response put more emphasis on such amenities as communal laundries, extra bedrooms, indoor lavatories, running hot water, separate parlours to demonstrate their respectability, and practical vegetable gardens rather than manicured lawns. Progress was not automatic, as shown by the troubles of rural Norfolk. Many dreams were shattered as local authorities had to renege on promises they could not fulfill due to undue haste, impossible national deadlines, debilitating bureaucracy, lack of lumber, rising costs, and the non-affordability of rents by the rural poor.\n\nIn England and Wales 214,000 multi-unit council buildings were built by 1939; the Ministry of Health became largely a ministry of housing. Council housing accounted for 10 percent of the housing stock in Britain by 1938, peaking at 32 percent in 1980, and dropping to 18 percent by 1996, where it held steady for the next two decades. \n\nIncreasingly the British ideal was home ownership, even among the working class. Rates of home ownership rose steadily from 15 percent before 1914, to 32 percent by 1938, and 67 percent by 1996. The construction industry sold the idea of home ownership to upscale renters. The mortgage lost its old stigma of a millstone round your neck to instead be seen as a smart long-term investment in suburbanized Britain. It appealed to aspirations of upward mobility and made possible the fastest rate of growth in working-class owner-occupation during the 20th century. The boom was largely financed by the savings ordinary Britons put into their building societies. Starting in the 1920s favourable tax policies encouraged substantial investment in the societies, creating huge reserves for lending. Beginning in 1927, the societies encouraged borrowing through gradual liberalization of mortgage terms.\n\nThe Lloyd George ministry fell apart in 1922, and Bonar Law became prime minister of a Conservative government. In May 1923 Bonar Law resigned because of ill health and was replaced by Stanley Baldwin. Baldwin, as leader of the Conservative Party (1923–37) and as Prime Minister (in 1923–24, 1924–29 and 1935–37), dominated British politics. His mixture of strong social reforms and steady government proved a powerful election combination, with the result that the Conservatives governed Britain either by themselves or as the leading component of the National Government. In the general election of 1935 Baldwin's was the last government to win over 50% of the vote. Baldwin's political strategy was to polarize the electorate so that voters would choose between the Conservatives on the right and the Labour Party on the left, squeezing out the Liberals in the middle. The polarization did take place and while the Liberals remained active under Lloyd George, they won few seats. Baldwin's reputation soared in the 1920s and 1930s, but crashed after 1940 as he was blamed for the appeasement policies toward Germany, and as Churchill was made the Conservative icon by his admirers. Since the 1970s Baldwin's reputation has recovered somewhat.\nHaving won an election just the year before, Baldwin's Conservative party had a comfortable majority in the Commons and could have waited another four years, but the government was concerned. Baldwin felt the need to receive a new mandate from the people. Oxford historian (and Conservative MP) J.A.R. Marriott depicts the gloomy national mood: \n\nThe times were still out of joint. Mr. Baldwin had indeed succeeded in negotiating (January 1923) a settlement of the British debt to the United States, but on terms which involved an annual payment of £34 million, at the existing rate of exchange. The French remained in the Ruhr. Peace had not yet been made with Turkey; unemployment was a standing menace to national recovery; there was continued unrest among the wage-earners, and a significant strike among farm labourers in Norfolk. Confronted by these difficulties, convinced that economic conditions in England called for a drastic change in fiscal policy, and urged thereto by the Imperial Conference of 1928, Mr. Baldwin decided to ask the country for a mandate for Preference and Protection.\nThe result however backfired on Baldwin, who lost a host of seats to Labour and the Liberals. For the first time in history, Labour formed a government. However, in 1924 Baldwin and the Conservatives returned with a large majority. Ross McKibbin finds that the political culture of the interwar period was built around an anti-socialist middle class, supported by the Conservative leaders, especially Baldwin.\n\nKing George V (reigned 1910–1936) was scandal free. He appeared hard working and became widely admired by the people of Britain and the Empire, as well as \"The Establishment\". It was George V who established the modern norm of conduct for British royalty, reflecting middle-class values and virtues rather than upper-class lifestyles or vices. Anti-intellectual and lacking the sophistication of his two royal predecessors, as well as their cosmopolitan experiences, he nevertheless understood the British Empire better than most of his ministers; indeed he explained, \"it has always been my dream to identify myself with the great idea of Empire.\" He used his exceptional memory for details and faces to good effect in small talk with commoners and officials. He invariably wielded his influence as a force of neutrality and moderation, seeing his role as mediator rather than final decision maker. . For example, in 1921 he had General Jan Smuts draft a speech calling for a compromise truce to end the and secured cabinet approval; the Irish also agreed and the war ended. Historian A. J. P. Taylor praises the king's initiative as, \"perhaps the greatest service performed by a British monarch in modern times.\" His transparent sense of duty, his loyalty, his impartiality, and his unfailing example of good taste inspired the people and discouraged politicians from manipulating him to their own advantage. King George V was by temperament a cautious and conservative man who never fully appreciated or approved the revolutionary changes underway in British society. Nevertheless, everyone understood that he was earnestly devoted to Britain and the British Commonwealth.\n\nThe king's popularity was enhanced during the World War when he made more than a thousand visits to hospitals, factories, and military and naval installations. He thereby gave highly visible support to the morale of ordinary workers and servicemen. His Silver Jubilee in 1935 became a national festival of fervent rejoicing, tinged with a few complaints. His funeral and following commemorations were elaborately staged, very well attended ceremonies that redefined the role of royalty in a newly democratic nation. The people had new ways to affirm their loyalties, such as close attention to live radio broadcasts and followup newsreels. New ceremonies born of the commemoration of death in the Great War included the two-minute silence. Britain set up living memorials to honour and expand the king's lifelong belief in the physical, moral and social benefits of recreation and sports. The royal death thereby acted to enhance a shared Britishness. The funeral of King George VI in 1952 followed the same formula. Thereby the monarchy grew stronger and, more importantly, national cohesion was built up in the era of total war.\n\nThe king was the most active monarch in many ways since George III (reigned 1760–1820). Biographer H. C. G. Matthew concludes:\n\nTaxes rose sharply during the war and never returned to their old levels. A rich man paid 8% of his income in taxes before the war, and about a third afterwards. Much of the money went on unemployment benefits. About 5% of the national income every year was transferred from the rich to the poor. A. J. P. Taylor argues most people \"were enjoying a richer life than any previously known in the history of the world: longer holidays, shorter hours, higher real wages.\"\n\nThe British economy was lacklustre in the 1920s, with sharp declines and high unemployment in heavy industry and coal, especially in Scotland and Wales. Exports of coal and steel halved by 1939 and the business community was slow to adopt the new labour and management principles coming from the US, such as Fordism, consumer credit, eliminating surplus capacity, designing a more structured management, and using greater economies of scale. For over a century the shipping industry had dominated world trade, but it remained in the doldrums despite various stimulus efforts by the government. With the very sharp decline in world trade after 1929, its condition became critical.\n\nChancellor of the Exchequer Winston Churchill put Britain back on the gold standard in 1925, which many economists blame for the mediocre performance of the economy. Others point to a variety of factors, including the inflationary effects of the World War and supply-side shocks caused by reduced working hours after the war.\n\nBy the late 1920s, economic performance had stabilised, but the overall situation was disappointing, for Britain had fallen behind the United States as the leading industrial power. There also remained a strong economic divide between the north and south of England during this period, with the south of England and the Midlands fairly prosperous by the Thirties, while parts of south Wales and the industrial north of England became known as \"distressed areas\" due to particularly high rates of unemployment and poverty. Despite this, the standard of living continued to improve as local councils built new houses to let to families rehoused from outdated slums, with up to date facilities including indoor toilets, bathrooms and electric lighting now being included in the new properties. The private sector enjoyed a housebuilding boom during the 1930s.\n\nDuring the war, trade unions were encouraged and their membership grew from 4.1 million in 1914 to 6.5 million in 1918. They peaked at 8.3 million in 1920 before relapsing to 5.4 million in 1923.\n\nCoal was a sick industry; the best seams were being exhausted, raising the cost. Demand fell as oil began replacing coal for fuel. The 1926 general strike was a nine-day nationwide walkout of 1.3 million railwaymen, transport workers, printers, dockers, iron workers and steelworkers supporting the 1.2 million coal miners who had been locked out by the owners. The miners had rejected the owners' demands for longer hours and reduced pay in the face of falling prices. The Conservative government had provided a nine-month subsidy in 1925 but that was not enough to turn around a sick industry. To support the miners the Trades Union Congress (TUC), an umbrella organization of all trades unions, called out certain critical unions. The hope was the government would intervene to reorganize and rationalize the industry, and raise the subsidy. The Conservative government had stockpiled supplies and essential services continued in operation using students and middle class volunteers. All three major parties opposed the strike. The Labour Party leaders did not approve and feared it would tar the party with the image of radicalism, for the Comintern in Moscow had sent instructions for Communists to aggressively promote the strike. The general strike itself was largely non-violent, but the miners' lockout continued and there was violence in Scotland. It was the only general strike in British history, for TUC leaders such as Ernest Bevin considered it a mistake. Most historians treat it as a singular event with few long-term consequences, but Martin Pugh says it accelerated the movement of working-class voters to the Labour Party, which led to future gains. The Trade Disputes and Trade Unions Act 1927 made general strikes illegal and ended the automatic payment of union dues to the Labour Party. That act was largely repealed in 1946. The coal industry used up the more accessible coal. As costs rose, output fell from 267 million tons in 1924 to 183 million in 1945. The Labour government nationalised the mines in 1947.\n\nStarting in 1909, Liberals, led especially by Lloyd George, promoted the idea of a minimum wage for farm workers. Resistance from landowners was strong, but success was achieved by 1924. According to Robin Gowers and Timothy J. Hatton, the impact In England and Wales was significant. They estimate that it raised wages for farm labourers by 15 per cent by 1929, and by more than 20 per cent in the 1930s. It reduced the employment of such labourers by 54,000 (6.5 per cent) in 1929 and 97,000 (13.3 per cent) in 1937. They argue, \"The minimum wage lifted out of poverty many families of farm labourers who remained employed, but it significantly lowered the incomes of farmers, particularly during the 1930s.\"\n\nAfter the War many new food products became available to the typical household, with branded foods advertised for their convenience. The shortage of servants was felt in the kitchen, but now instead of an experienced cook spending hours on difficult custards and puddings the housewife could purchase instant foods in jars, or powders that could be quickly mixed. Breakfast porridge from branded, more finely milled, oats could now be cooked in two minutes, not 20. American-style dry cereals began to challenge the porridge and bacon and eggs of the middle classes, and the bread and margarine of the poor. Shops carried more bottled and canned goods and fresher meat, fish and vegetables. While wartime shipping shortages had sharply narrowed choices, the 1920s saw many new kinds of foods--especially fruits--imported from around the world, along with better quality packaging and hygiene. Middle class households now had ice boxes or electric refrigerators, which made for better storage and the convenience of buying in larger quantities.\n\nNumerous studies in the Depression years documented that the average consumer ate better than before. Seebohm Rowntree reported that the \"standard to workers in 1936 was about 30 percent higher than it was in 1899.\" The dairy industry was producing too much, and profits were too low. So the government used the Milk Marketing Board to give a guaranteed price to dairy farmers – a policy ridiculed by \"The Economist\" as the \"economics of Bedlam.\" Food prices were low, but the advantage went overwhelmingly to the middle and upper classes, with the poorest third of the population suffering from sustained poor nutrition. Starvation was not a factor, but widespread hunger was. The deleterious effects on poor children were obvious to teachers. In 1934, the government began a program of charging school children a halfpenny a day for a third of a pint of milk. This dramatically improved their nutrition, and the new demand kept up the wholesale price of milk paid to farmers. About half the nation's school children participated by 1936. Milk was distributed for free in the Second World War, and participation rose to 90 percent. Indeed, the rationing system of the wartime years sharply improved the nutrition of poorest third, together with their capacity for manual labour. \n\nThe Great Depression originated on Wall Street in the United States in late 1929, and quickly spread to the rest of the world. The main impact of the economic slump was felt in 1931. Unlike Germany, Canada and Australia, Britain had not experienced a boom in the 1920s, so the downturn was less severe and ended sooner.\n\nBy summer 1931 the world financial crisis began to overwhelm Britain; investors across the world started withdrawing their gold from London at the rate of £2½ million a day. Credits of £25 million each from the Bank of France and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and an issue of £15 million in fiduciary notes slowed, but did not reverse the British crisis. The financial crisis now caused a major political crisis in Britain in August 1931. With deficits mounting, the bankers demanded a balanced budget; the divided cabinet of Ramsay MacDonald's Labour government agreed; it proposed to raise taxes, cut spending and most controversially, to cut unemployment benefits by 20%. The attack on welfare was totally unacceptable to the Labour movement. MacDonald wanted to resign, but the King insisted he remain and form an all-party coalition \"National government.\" The Conservative and Liberal parties signed on, along with a small cadre of Labour, but the vast majority of Labour leaders denounced MacDonald as a traitor for leading the new government. Britain went off the gold standard, and suffered relatively less than other major countries in the Great Depression. In the 1931 British election the Labour Party was virtually destroyed, leaving MacDonald as Prime Minister of a largely Conservative coalition.\n\nThe flight of gold continued, however, and the Treasury finally was forced to abandon the gold standard in September 1931. Until now the government had religiously followed orthodox policies, which demanded balanced-budgets and the gold standard. Instead of the predicted disaster, cutting loose from gold proved a major advantage. Immediately the exchange rate of the pound fell by 25%, from $4.86 for one pound to $3.40. British exports were now much more competitive, which laid the ground for a gradual economic recovery. The worst was over.\n\nBritain's world trade fell in half (1929–33); the output of heavy industry fell by a third. Employment and profits plunged in nearly all sectors. At the depth in summer 1932, registered unemployed numbered 3.5 million, and many more had only part-time employment. The government tried to work inside the Commonwealth, raising tariffs for products from the United States, France and Britain, while giving preference to Commonwealth members. \n\nThe north of England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, and Wales suffered particularly severe economic problems, especially if they depended on coal, steel or shipbuilding. Unemployment reached 70% in some mining localities at the start of the 1930s (with more than 3 million out of work nationally). The government was cautious and conservative, rejecting the Keynesian proposal for large-scale public works projects. \n\nDoomsayers on the left such as Sidney and Beatrice Webb, J. A. Hobson, and G. D. H. Cole repeated the dire warnings they had been making for years about the imminent death of capitalism, only now far more people paid attention. Starting in 1935 the Left Book Club provided a new warning every month, and built up the credibility of Soviet-style socialism as an alternative.\n\nIn 1936, by which time unemployment was lower, 200 unemployed men made a highly publicized march from Jarrow to London in a bid to show the plight of the industrial poor. Although much romanticized by the Left, the Jarrow Crusade marked a deep split in the Labour Party and resulted in no government action. Unemployment remained high until the war absorbed all the job seekers. George Orwell's book \"The Road to Wigan Pier\" gives a bleak overview of the hardships of the time.\n\nThe economic crisis of the early 1930s, and the response of the Labour and National governments to the depression, have generated much historical controversy. Apart from the major pockets of long-term high unemployment, Britain was generally prosperous. Historian Piers Brendon writes: \"Historians, however, have long since revised this grim picture, presenting the devil's decade as the cradle of the affluent society. Prices fell sharply between the wars and average incomes rose by about a third. The term \"property-owning democracy\" was coined in the 1920s, and three million houses were built during the 1930s. Land, labour and materials were cheap: a bungalow could be purchased for £225 and a semi for £450. The middle class also bought radiograms, telephones, three-piece suites, electric cookers, vacuum cleaners and golf clubs. They ate Kellogg's Corn Flakes (\"never miss a day\"), drove to Odeon cinemas in Austin Sevens (costing £135 by 1930) and smoked Craven A cigarettes, cork-tipped \"to prevent sore throats\". The depression spawned a consumer boom.\"\n\nIn the decades immediately following the Second World War, most historical opinion was critical of the governments of the period. Some historians, such as Robert Skidelsky in his \"Politicians and the Slump\", compared the orthodox policies of the Labour and National governments unfavourably with the more radical proto-Keynesian measures advocated by David Lloyd George and Oswald Mosley, and the more interventionist and Keynesian responses in other economies: Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal in the United States, the Labour government in New Zealand, and the Social Democratic government in Sweden. Since the 1970s opinion has become less uniformly hostile. In the preface to the 1994 edition, Skidelsky argues that recent experience of currency crises and capital flight make it hard to be so critical of the politicians who wanted to achieve stability by cutting labour costs and defending the value of the currency.\n\nAfter taking over the League of Nations mandates on certain German and Ottoman territories in 1919, the British Empire reached its territorial peak. The interwar years saw extensive efforts for economic and educational development of the colonies. The Dominions were prosperous and largely took care of themselves. By far the most troublesome areas for London were India and Palestine.\n\nThe Dominions (Canada, Australia, South Africa, and New Zealand) achieved virtual independence in foreign policy in the Statute of Westminster 1931, though each depended heavily upon British naval protection. After 1931 trade policy favoured Imperial Preference with higher tariffs against the U.S. and all others outside the Commonwealth.\n\nIn India, the forces of nationalism were now being organized by the Indian National Congress, led by Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. India contributed significantly to victory in the World War, and was bitterly disappointed by the very limited benefits conferred in the Government of India Act 1919. British fears of German wartime plots or postwar Communism following the Ghadar Mutiny ensured that war-time strictures were renewed by the Rowlatt Act of 1919 that suppressed dissent. Tensions escalated particularly in the Punjab region, where repressive measures culminated in the Amritsar Massacre. In Britain public opinion was divided over the morality of the massacre, between those who saw it as having saved India from anarchy, and those who viewed it with revulsion. Gandhi developed the technique of nonviolent resistance, claiming moral superiority over the British use of violence. Multiple negotiations were held in the 1930s, but a strong reactionary movement in Britain, led by Winston Churchill, blocked the adoption of reforms that would satisfy Indian nationalists. Historian Lawrence James states:\n\nEgypt was nominally part of the Ottoman Empire, although under British rule, until 1914, when London declared it a protectorate. Independence was formally granted in 1922, though it continued to be a British client state until 1954. British troops remained stationed to guard the Suez Canal. Egypt joined the League of Nations. Iraq, a British mandate since 1920, also gained membership of the League in its own right after achieving independence from Britain in 1932. Iraq remained under firm British guidance regarding foreign affairs, defence policy, and oil policy.\n\nIn Palestine, Britain was presented with the problem of mediating between the Arabs and increasing numbers of Jews. The 1917 Balfour Declaration, which had been incorporated into the terms of the mandate, stated that a national home for the Jewish people would be established in Palestine. Tens of thousands of Jews immigrated from Europe. The Arab population revolted in 1936. As the prospect of war with Germany loomed larger, Britain judged the support of Arabs as more important than the establishment of a Jewish homeland, and shifted to a pro-Arab stance, limiting Jewish immigration and in turn triggering a Jewish insurgency.\n\nAs Britain's Prime Minister, Lloyd George requested military assistance from the Dominions at the outbreak of the Chanak Crisis in Turkey in 1922. He was rejected. The World War had greatly strengthened the sense of nationalism and self-confidence in the dominions. They were now independent members of the League of Nations, and refused to automatically follow requests from Britain's leaders. The right of the Dominions to set their own foreign policy, independent of Britain, was recognised at the 1923 Imperial Conference. The 1926 Imperial Conference issued the Balfour Declaration of 1926, declaring the Dominions to be \"autonomous Communities within the British Empire, equal in status, in no way subordinate one to another\" within a \"British Commonwealth of Nations\". This declaration was given legal substance under the 1931 Statute of Westminster. India, however, was denied dominion status and its foreign policy was set by London.\n\nNewfoundland was overwhelmed by the economic disasters of the Great depression and voluntarily gave up its dominion status. It reverted to a crown colony under direct British control until it voted to join Canada in 1948. The Irish Free State broke its ties with London with a new constitution in 1937, making it a republic in all but name.\n\nBritain had suffered little physical devastation during the war but the cost in death and disability and money were very high. In the Khaki Election of 1918, coming a month after the Allied victory over Germany, Lloyd George promised to impose a harsh treaty on Germany. At the Paris Peace Conference in early 1919, however, he took a much more moderate approach. France and Italy demanded and achieved harsh terms, including German admission of guilt for starting the war (which humiliated Germany), and a demand that Germany pay the entire Allied cost of the war, including veterans' benefits and interest. Britain reluctantly supported the Treaty of Versailles, although many experts, most famously John Maynard Keynes, thought it too harsh on Germany \n\nBritain began to look on a restored Germany as an important trading partner and worried about the effect of reparations on the British economy. In the end the United States financed German debt payments to Britain, France and the other Allies through the Dawes Plan, and Britain used this income to repay the loans it borrowed from the U.S. during the war.\n\nVivid memories of the horrors and deaths of the World War made Britain and its leaders strongly inclined to pacifism in the interwar era.\n\nBritain maintained close relationships with France and the United States, rejected isolationism, and sought world peace through naval arms limitation treaties, and peace with Germany through the Locarno treaties of 1925. A main goal was to restore Germany to a peaceful, prosperous state. \n\nWith disarmament high on the agenda, Britain played a major role following the United States in the Washington Naval Conference of 1921 in working toward naval disarmament of the major powers. By 1933 disarmament had collapsed and the issue became rearming for a war against Germany.\n\nAt the Washington Conference Britain abandoned the Two power standard - her long-time policy of paramount naval strength equal to or greater than the next two naval powers combined. Instead it accepted equality with United States, and weakness in Asian waters relative to Japan. It promised to not strengthen the fortifications of Hong Kong, which were within range of Japan. The treaty with Japan was not renewed, But Japan at the time was not engaged in expansion activities of the sort that grew momentous from 1931 onward. London cut loose from Tokyo but moved much closer to Washington.\n\nPolitically the coalition government of Prime Minister David Lloyd George depended primarily on Conservative Party support. He increasingly antagonized his supporters with foreign policy miscues. The Chanak Crisis of 1922 brought Britain to the brink of war with Turkey, but the Dominions were opposed and the British military was hesitant, so peace was preserved. This was one of the factors causing Conservative MPs to vote, at the Carlton Club meeting, to fight the next election as a separate party; Lloyd George then resigned as Prime Minister, ending the coalition government.\n\nThe success at Locarno in handling the German question impelled Foreign Secretary Austen Chamberlain, working with France and Italy, to find a master solution to the diplomatic problems of Eastern Europe and the Balkans. It proved impossible to overcome mutual antagonisms, because Chamberlain's programme was flawed by his misperceptions and fallacious judgments.\n\nThe great challenge came from dictators, first Benito Mussolini of Italy from 1923, then from 1933 Adolf Hitler of a much more powerful Nazi Germany. Britain and France led the policy of non-interference in the Spanish Civil War (1936–39). The League of Nations proved disappointing to its supporters; it was unable to resolve any of the threats posed by the dictators. British policy was to \"appease\" them in the hopes they would be satiated. League-authorized sanctions against Italy for its invasion of Ethiopia had support in Britain but proved a failure and were dropped in 1936.\n\nGermany was the difficult case. By 1930 British leaders and intellectuals largely agreed that all major powers shared the blame for war in 1914, and not Germany alone as the Treaty of Versailles specified. Therefore, they believed the punitive harshness of the Treaty of Versailles was unwarranted, and this view, adopted by politicians and the public, was largely responsible for supporting appeasement policies down to 1938. That is, German rejections of treaty provisions seemed justified.\n\nBy late 1938 it was clear that war was looming, and that Germany had the world's most powerful military. British military leaders warned that Germany would win a war, and Britain needed another year or two to catch up in terms of aviation and air defence. Appeasement of Germany—giving in to its demands—was the government's policy until early 1939. The final act of appeasement came when Britain and France sacrificed Czechoslovakia to Hitler's demands at the Munich Agreement of 1938. Instead of satiation Hitler then seized the rest of Czechoslovakia in March 1939 and menaced Poland. In response Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain rejected further appeasement and stood firm in promising to defend Poland. Hitler unexpectedly cut a deal with Joseph Stalin to divide Eastern Europe; when Germany did invade Poland in September 1939, Britain and France declared war; the British Commonwealth followed London's lead.\n\nWhile the Church of England was historically identified with the upper classes, and with the rural gentry, William Temple (1881–1944) was both a prolific theologian and a social activist, preaching Christian socialism. He served as bishop of Manchester and York, and in 1942 became Archbishop of Canturbury. He advocated a broad and inclusive membership in the Church of England as a means of continuing and expanding the church's position as the established church. Temple was troubled by the high degree of animosity inside, and between the leading religious groups in Britain. In the 1930s he promoted ecumenicism, working to establish better relationships with the Nonconformists, Jews and Catholics, managing in the process to overcome his anti-Catholic bias.\n\nAlthough the overall population was growing steadily, and the Catholic membership was keeping pace, the Protestants were slipping behind. Out of 30–50 million adults, they dropped slowly from 5.7 million members in 1920, and 5.4 million in 1940, to 4.3 million in 1970. The Church of England decline was parallel. Methodism, the largest of the Nonconformist churches reached a peak of 841,000 members in Great Britain in 1910, slipped to 802,000 in 1920, 792,000 in 1940 729,000 in 1960, and 488,000 in 1980. The Nonconformists had built a strong base In industrial districts that specialized in mining textiles agriculture and fishing; those were declining industries, who share of the total male workforce Was in steady decline, from 21 percent in 1921 to 13 percent in 1951. As the families migrated to southern England, or to the suburbs, they often lost contact with their childhood religion. The political reverberations were most serious for the Liberal Party, which was largely based in the nonconformist community, and which rapidly lost membership in the 1920s as its leadership quarreled, the Irish Catholics and many from the working-class moved to the Labour Party, and part of the middle class moved to the Conservative party. Hoping to stem the membership decline, the three major Methodist groups merged in 1932. In Scotland the two major Presbyterian groups, the Church of Scotland and the United Free Church, merged in 1929 for the same reason. Nonetheless the steady declension continued. The nonconformist churches showed not just a decline in membership but a dramatic fall in enthusiasm. Sunday school attendance plummeted; there were far fewer new ministers. Antagonism toward the Anglican church sharply declined, and many prominent nonconformists became Anglicans, including some leading ministers. There was a falling away in the size and fervour of congregations, less interest in funding missionaries, a decline in intellectualism, and persistent complaints about the lack of money. Commentator D.W. Brogan reported in 1943:\n\nOne aspect of the long-term decline in religiosity was that Protestant showed less and less interest in sending their children to religious schools. In localities across England, fierce battles were fought between the Nonconformists, Anglicans, and Catholics, each with their own school systems supported by taxes, and secular schools, and taxpayers. The Nonconformists had long taken the lead in fighting the Anglicans, who a century before had practically monopolized education. The Anglican share of the elementary school population fell from 57% in 1918 to 39% in 1939. With the sustained decline in Nonconformist enthusiasm their schools closed one after another. In 1902 the Methodist Church operated 738 schools; only 28 remained in 1996.\n\nBritain continued to think of itself is a Christian country; there were a few atheists or nonbelievers, but unlike the continent, there was no anti-clericalism worthy of note. A third or more prayed every day. Large majorities used formal church services to mark birth, marriage and death. The great majority believed in God and heaven, although belief in hell fell off after all the deaths of the World War. After 1918, Church of England services stopped practically all discussion of hell.\n\nParliament had governed the Church of England since 1688, but was increasingly eager to turn control over to the church itself. It passed the Church of England Assembly (Powers) Act 1919 to establish the Church Assembly, with three houses for bishops, clergy, and laity, and permitted it to legislate regulations for the Church, subject to formal approval of Parliament.\n\nA crisis suddenly emerged in 1927 over the Church's proposal to revise the classic \"Book of Common Prayer,\" which had been in daily use since 1662. The goal was to better incorporate moderate Anglo-Catholicism into the life of the Church. The bishops sought a more tolerant, comprehensive established Church. After internal debate the Church Assembly gave its approval. Evangelicals inside the Church, and Nonconformists outside, were outraged because they understood England's religious national identity to be emphatically Protestant and anti-Catholic. They denounced the revisions as a concession to ritualism and tolerance of Roman Catholicism. They mobilized support in parliament, which twice rejected the revisions after intensely heated debates. The Anglican hierarchy compromised in 1929, while strictly prohibiting extreme and Anglo-Catholic practices.\n\nStandards of morality in Britain changed dramatically after the world wars, in the direction of more personal freedom, especially in sexual matters. The Church tried to hold the line, and was especially concerned to stop the rapid trend toward divorce. In 1935 it reaffirmed that, \"in no circumstances can Christian men or women re-marry during the lifetime of a wife or a husband.\" The Archbishop of Canterbury, Cosmo Lang, held that the King, as the head of the Church of England, could not marry a divorcée. Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin objected vigorously, noting that \"although it is true that standards are lower since the war it only leads people to expect a higher standard from their King.\" Baldwin was supported by his Conservative Party (except Churchill), as well as the Labour Party, and the prime ministers of the Commonwealth. King Edward VIII therefore was forced to abdicate the throne in 1936 when he insisted on marrying an American divorcée. Although public opinion gave him considerable support, elite opinion was hostile, and he was practically forced into exile. Archbishop Lang in a radio broadcast lashed out, blaming the upper-class social circles that Edward frequented:\n\nEdward's biographer Philip Ziegler argues that Edward was poorly prepared to be King, because of deep personal weaknesses; he was inconsistent, superficial and incapable of resisting distractions, and handled the constitutional issues poorly. Frank Mort argues that cultural historians have read the abdication story not so much as a constitutional crisis, but as an indicator of:\n\nJohn Charmley argues in the history of the Conservative Party that Baldwin was pushing for more democracy, and less of an old aristocratic upper-class tone. Monarchy was to be a national foundation, whereby the head of the Church. the State, and the Empire, by drawing upon 1000 years of tradition, could unify the nation. George V was an ideal fit: \"an ordinary little man with the philistine tastes of most of his subjects, he could be presented as the archetypical English paterfamilias getting on with his duties without fuss.\" Charmley finds that George V and Baldwin, “made a formidable conservative team, with their ordinary, honest, English decency proving the first (and most effective) bulwark against revolution.” Edward VIII, flaunting his upper-class playboy style, suffered from an unstable neurotic character. He needed a strong stabilizing partner—a role Mrs. Simpson was unable to provide. Baldwin's final achievement was to smooth the way for Edward to abdicate in favor of his younger brother who became George VI. Father and son both demonstrated the value of a democratic king during the severe physical and psychological hardships of the world wars, and their tradition was carried on by Elizabeth II. \n\nAfter the war, the major newspapers engaged in a large-scale circulation race. The political parties, which long had sponsored their own papers, could not keep up, and one after another their outlets were sold or closed down. Sales in the millions depended on popular stories, with a strong human interesting theme, as well as detailed sports reports with the latest scores. Serious news was a niche market and added very little to the circulation base. The niche was dominated by \"The Times\" and, to a lesser extent, \"The Daily Telegraph.\" Consolidation was rampant, as local dailies were bought up and added to chains based in London. James Curran and Jean Seaton report:\n\n\"The Times\" of London was long the most influential prestige newspaper, although far from having the largest circulation. It gave far more attention to serious political and cultural news. In 1922, John Jacob Astor (1886–1971), son of the 1st Viscount Astor (1849–1919), bought \"The Times\" from the Northcliffe estate. The paper advocated appeasement of Hitler's demands. Its editor Geoffrey Dawson was closely allied with Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, and pushed hard for the Munich Agreement in 1938. Candid news reports by Norman Ebbut from Berlin that warned of warmongering were rewritten in London to support the appeasement policy. In March 1939, however, it reversed course and called for urgent war preparations.\n\nAs leisure, literacy, wealth, ease of travel, and a broadened sense of community grew in Britain from the late 19th century onward, there was more time and interest in leisure activities of all sorts, on the part of all classes. Drinking was differentiated by class. with upper-class clubs, and working-class and middle-class pubs. However, drinking as a way of spending leisure time and spare cash declined during the Depression and pub attendance never returned to 1930 levels; it fell far below prewar levels. Taxes were raised on beer, but there were more alternatives now at hand, such as cigarettes (which attracted 8/10 men, and 4/10 women), the talkies, the dance halls, and Greyhound racing. Football pools offered the excitement of betting on a range of results. New estates with small, inexpensive houses offered gardening as an outdoor recreation. Church attendance declined to half the level of 1901.\n\nThe annual holiday became common. Tourists flocked to seaside resorts; Blackpool hosted 7 million visitors a year in the 1930s. Organized leisure was primarily a male activity, with middle-class women allowed in at the margins. Participation in sports and all sorts of leisure activities increased for the average Englishman, and his interest in spectator sports increased dramatically. By the 1920s the cinema and radio attracted all classes, ages and genders in very large numbers, with young women taking the lead. Working-class men were boisterous football spectators. They sang along at the music hall, fancied their pigeons, gambled on horse racing, and took the family to seaside resorts in summer. Political activists complained that working-class leisure diverted men away from revolutionary agitation.\n\nThe British film industry emerged in the 1890s, and built heavily on the strong reputation of the London legitimate theatre for actors, directors, and producers. The problem was that the American market was so much larger and richer. It bought up the top talent, especially when Hollywood came to the fore in the 1920s and produced over 80 percent of the total world output. Efforts to fight back were futile — the government set a quota for British made films, but it failed. Hollywood furthermore dominated the lucrative Canadian and Australian markets. Bollywood (based in Bombay) dominated the huge Indian market. The most prominent directors remaining in London were Alexander Korda, an expatriate Hungarian, and Alfred Hitchcock. There was a revival of creativity in the 1933–45 era, especially with the arrival of Jewish filmmakers and actors fleeing the Nazis. Meanwhile, giant palaces were built for the huge audiences that wanted to see Hollywood films. In Liverpool 40 percent of the population attended one of the 69 cinemas once a week; 25 percent went twice. Traditionalists grumbled about the American cultural invasion, but the permanent impact was minor.\n\nIn radio British audiences had no choice apart from the highbrow programming of the BBC, which had a monopoly on broadcasting. John Reith (1889 – 1971), an intensely moralistic engineer, was in full charge. His goal was to broadcast, \"All that is best in every department of human knowledge, endeavour and achievement... The preservation of a high moral tone is obviously of paramount importance.\" Reith succeeded in building a high wall against an American-style free-for-all in radio in which the goal was to attract the largest audiences and thereby secure the greatest advertising revenue. There was no paid advertising on the BBC; all the revenue came from a licence fee charged for the possession of receivers. Highbrow audiences, however, greatly enjoyed it. At a time when American, Australian and Canadian stations were drawing huge audiences cheering for their local teams with the broadcast of baseball, rugby and ice-hockey, the BBC emphasized service for a national, rather than a regional audience. Boat races were well covered along with tennis and horse racing, but the BBC was reluctant to spend its severely limited air time on long football or cricket games, regardless of their popularity.\n\nThe British showed a more profound interest in sports, and in greater variety, than any rival. They gave pride of place to such moral issues as sportsmanship and fair play. Cricket became symbolic of the Imperial spirit throughout the Empire. Football proved highly attractive to the urban working classes, which introduced the rowdy spectator to the sports world. In some sports there was significant controversy in the fight for amateur purity especially in rugby and rowing. New games became popular almost overnight, including golf, lawn tennis, cycling and hockey. Women were much more likely to enter these sports than the old established ones. The aristocracy and landed gentry, with their ironclad control over land rights, dominated hunting, shooting, fishing and horse racing.\n\nCricket had become well-established among the English upper class in the 18th century, and was a major factor in sports competition among the public schools. Army units around the Empire had time on their hands, and encouraged the locals to learn cricket so they could have some entertaining competition. Most of the Empire embraced cricket, with the exception of Canada. Cricket test matches (international) began by the 1870s; the most famous are those between Australia and Britain for The Ashes.\n\nFor sports to become fully professionalized, coaching had to come first. It gradually professionalized in the Victorian era and the role was well established by 1914. In the First World War, military units sought out the coaches to supervise physical conditioning and develop morale-building teams.\n\nAs literacy and leisure time expanded after 1900 reading became a popular pastime. New additions to adult fiction doubled during the 1920s, reaching 2800 new books a year by 1935. Libraries tripled their stock, and saw heavy demand for new fiction. A dramatic innovation was the inexpensive paperback, pioneered by Allen Lane (1902–70) at Penguin Books in 1935. The first titles included novels by Ernest Hemingway and Agatha Christie. They were sold cheaply (usually sixpence) in a wide variety of inexpensive stores such as Woolworth's. Penguin aimed at an educated middle class \"middlebrow\" audience. It avoided the downscale image of American paperbacks. The line signalled cultural self-improvement and political education. The more polemical Penguin Specials, typically with a leftist orientation for Labour readers, were widely distributed during the Second World War. However the war years caused a shortage of staff for publishers and book stores, and a severe shortage of rationed paper, worsened by the air raid on Paternoster Row in 1940 that burned 5 million books in warehouses.\nRomantic fiction was especially popular, with Mills and Boon the leading publisher. Romantic encounters were embodied in a principle of sexual purity that demonstrated not only social conservatism, but also how heroines could control their personal autonomy. Adventure magazines became quite popular, especially those published by DC Thomson; the publisher sent observers around the country to talk to boys and learn what they wanted to read about. The story line in magazines, comic books and cinema that most appealed to boys was the glamorous heroism of British soldiers fighting wars that were exciting and just. D.C. Thomson issued the first \"The Dandy Comic\" in December 1937. It had a revolutionary design that broke away from the usual children's comics that were published broadsheet in size and not very colourful. Thomson capitalized on its success with a similar product \"The Beano\" in 1938.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2545622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2545622", "title": "J. B. Danquah", "text": "J. B. Danquah\n\nNana Joseph Kwame Kyeretwie Boakye Danquah, PhD (18 December 1895 – 4 February 1965) was a Ghanaian statesman, pan-Africanist, scholar, lawyer, historian and one of the founding fathers of Ghana. He played a significant role in pre- and post-colonial Ghana, which was formerly the Gold Coast, and in fact is credited with giving Ghana its name. During his political career, Danquah was one of the primary opposition leaders to Ghanaian president and independence leader Kwame Nkrumah. J. B. Danquah was described as the \"doyen of Gold Coast politics\" by the Watson Commission of Inquiry into the 1948 Accra riots.\n\nDanquah was born on 18 December 1895 in the Ghanaian town of Bepong in Kwahu in the Eastern Region of Ghana. He was descended from the royal family of Ofori Panyin Fie, once the rulers of the Akyem states, and one of the most influential families in Ghanaian politics. His elder brother is Nana Sir Ofori Atta I and his son is actor Paul Danquah.\n\nAt the age of six, Danquah began schooling at the Basel Mission School at Kyebi. He attended the Basel Mission Senior School at Begoro. On successful completion of his standard seven examinations in 1912, he was employed by Vidal J. Buckle, a barrister-at-law in Accra, as a clerk, a job which aroused his interest in law.\n\nAfter passing the Civil Service Examinations in 1914, Danquah became a clerk at the Supreme Court of the Gold Coast, which gave him the experience to be appointed by his brother, Nana Sir Ofori Atta I, who had become chief two years earlier, as secretary of the Omanhene's Tribunal in Kyebi. Following the influence of his brother, Danquah was appointed as the assistant secretary of the Conference of Paramount Chiefs of the Eastern Province, which was later given statutory recognition to become the Eastern Provincial Council of Chiefs. His brilliance influenced his brother to send him to Britain in 1921 to read law.\n\nAfter two unsuccessful attempts at the University of London matriculation, Danquah passed in 1922, enabling him to enter the University College of London as a philosophy student. He earned his B.A. degree in 1925, winning the John Stuart Mill Scholarship in the Philosophy of Mind and Logic. He then embarked on a Doctor of Philosophy degree, which he earned in two years with a thesis entitled \"The Moral End as Moral Excellence\". He became the first West African to obtain the Doctor of Philosophy degree from a British university.\n\nWhile he worked on his thesis, he entered the Inner Temple and was called to the Bar in 1926. During his student days, he had two sons and two daughters by two different women, neither of whom he married. In London, Danquah took time off his studies to participate in student politics, serving as editor of the West African Students' Union (WASU) magazine and becoming the Union's president. \n\nDanquah went into private legal practice upon his return to Ghana in 1927. In 1929 he helped J. E. Casely Hayford found the Gold Coast Youth Conference (GCYC) and was Secretary General from 1937 to 1947. In 1931, Danquah established \"The Times of West Africa\" originally called the \"West Africa Times\", which was the first daily newspaper in Ghana published between 1931 and 1935 A column called \"Women's Corner\" was pseudonymously written by Mabel Dove, daughter of prominent barrister Francis Dove. She became Danquah's first wife in 1933 bearing him a son. Danquah later married Elizabeth Vardon. In 1935, he became an executive member of the International African Friends of Ethiopia, a Pan-Africanist organization based in London. \n\nDanquah became a member of the Legislative Council in 1946 and actively pursued independence legislation for his country. In 1947 he helped to found the pro-independence United Gold Coast Convention (UGCC) as a combination of chiefs, academics and lawyers, including George Alfred Grant, Robert Benjamin Blay, R. A. Awoonor-Williams, Edward Akufo-Addo, and Emmanuel Obetsebi-Lamptey. Kwame Nkrumah was invited to be the new party's general secretary. In 1948, following a boycott of European imports and subsequent rioting in Accra, Danquah was one of \"the big six\" (the others being Nkrumah, Akufo-Addo, Obetsebi-Lamptey, Ebenezer Ako-Adjei and William Ofori Atta) who were detained for a month by the colonial authorities.\n\nDanquah's historical research led him to agree with Nkrumah's proposition that on independence the Gold Coast be renamed Ghana after the early African empire of that name. However, Danquah and Nkrumah subsequently disagreed over the direction of the independence movement and parted ways after two years. Nkrumah went on to form the Convention People's Party (CPP) and eventually became the first president of independent Ghana.\n\nDanquah stood as a presidential candidate against Nkrumah in April 1960 but lost the election. On 3 October 1961, Danquah was arrested under the Preventive Detention Act, on the grounds of involvement with alleged plans to subvert the CPP government. He was released on 22 June 1962. He was later elected president of the Ghana Bar Association.\n\nDanquah was again arrested on 8 January 1964, for allegedly being implicated in a plot against the President. He suffered a heart attack and died while in detention at Nsawam Medium Prison on 4 February 1965.\n\nAfter the overthrow of the CPP government in February 1966 by the National Liberation Council (NLC), Danquah was given a national funeral and his status was rehabilitated.\n\nAmong his writings are \"Gold Coast: Akan Laws and Customs and the Akim Abuakwa Constitution\" (1928), a play entitled \"The Third Woman\" (1943), and \"The Akan Doctrine of God\" (1944). The latter book demonstrated the compatibility of African religion with Christianity, and is considered a \"milestone\" for African Protestants looking for ways to reclaim their African heritage.\n\nDanquah played an important role in the establishment of the University of Ghana, the premier and the largest university in Ghana. He successfully advocated for its establishment in 1948 after a British report on higher education in West Africa recommended that only one university college, to be located in Nigeria, in association with the University of London, would be feasible for the whole of West Africa.\n\nThe J. B. Danquah Memorial Lecture Series was inaugurated in 1968 in memory of Danquah, who was also a founding member of the Ghana Academy of Arts and Sciences (GAAS).\nThe Danquah Institute was set up in commemoration of his work and to promote his ideas posthumously.\nDanquah Circle a roundabout at Osu in Accra was also named after him.\n\nAccra - Danquah Circle (Osu) http://ghana-net.com/Danquah_Circle_Accra.aspx\n"}
{"id": "43821884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43821884", "title": "James Carruthers", "text": "James Carruthers\n\nJames Carruthers (1759–1832) was a Scottish Roman Catholic priest and historian.\n\nHe was the son of Catholic parents, Andrew Carruthers and his wife Lucy Rigg; Bishop Andrew Carruthers was his brother. He was born in New Abbey in the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright.\n\nFr. Carruthers was educated in the Scottish College, Douai, and on his return to Scotland was ordained priest and appointed to the charge of Glenlivet. Afterwards he was successively at Buchan, in Aberdeenshire, at Preshome in the Enzie, at Dumfries, and at St Mary's, New Abbey, where he died on 14 February 1832. He was buried in the graveyard of Sweetheart Abbey.\n\nCarruthers wrote:\n\n\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "24123028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24123028", "title": "Jinnahpur", "text": "Jinnahpur\n\nJinnahpur refers to an alleged plot in Pakistan to form a breakaway autonomous state to serve as a homeland for the Karachi based Urdu-speaking Muhajir community.\n\nMohajirs are immigrants who came to Pakistan from India in the wake of the violence that followed the independence of Pakistan in 1947. The alleged name to be given to the proposed breakaway state was \"Jinnahpur\", named after Mohammed Ali Jinnah. In 1992, the Pakistani military claimed it had found maps of the proposed Jinnahpur state in the offices of the Mohajir Qaumi Movement (now renamed Muttahida Qaumi Movement), despite the party's strong denial of the authenticity of the maps. Despite the party's strong commitment to the Pakistani state, at that time government of Nawaz Sharif chose to use it as the basis for the military operation against the MQM, known as Operation Clean-up. \n\nIn August 2009, two senior military officers at the time (one of them Brigadier Imtiaz Billa) of the operation claimed that the maps had been fabricated. \nAccording to them the Jinnahpur maps were false allegations and an attempt to divide the nation. Their stance was immediately challenged by Major (R) Nadeem Dar, then an ISI officer, who claimed to have recovered maps and related documents personally after raiding MQM headquarter and sent them to Major Haroon and Major Nadeem\n\nThe Muhajir Sooba (literally meaning 'Immigrant Province') is a political movement which seeks to represent the Muhajir people of Sindh. This concept floated as a political bargaining tool by the leader of Muttahida Qaumi Movement, Altaf Hussain for the creation of a Muhajir province for the Muhajir-majority areas of Sindh, which would be independent from Sindh government. The political deprivations of MQM became the major causes leading towards the demand of a separate province. Various other names have been suggested by Altaf Hussain to refer to proposed new province such as Sindh 1 and Sindh 2. \n\nThe Pakistan Peoples Party, as well as PTI leader Imran Khan and other major political parties of Pakistan, opposed the creation of a separate province.\n\n"}
{"id": "16763067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16763067", "title": "Johann Franz Bessel", "text": "Johann Franz Bessel\n\nJohann Franz Bessel (in religion Gottfried) (b. 5 September 1672, at Buchen, in the Grand Duchy of Baden; d. at Göttweig, 22 January 1749) was a German Benedictine abbot and historian.\n\nHe made his course in the humanities at Aschaffenburg, Würzburg, and Bamberg, and in 1690 entered the University of Salzburg, conducted by the Benedictines, where he specialized in philosophy, also attending lectures on theology and jurisprudence. He entered the Benedictine Order at Göttweig on the Danube, Lower Austria, 15 June 1692. After making his vows (21 June 1693), he completed his theological course at Vienna, was ordained (21 March 1696), and on 23 May was granted the degree of Doctor of Theology, being shortly afterwards appointed Lector in philosophy and theology in the monastery of Seligenstadt on the River Main.\n\nIn 1699 he was summoned to the electoral court of Mainz by Archbishop Lothar Franz von Schonborn, who immediately sent him to Rome to study the curial practice of the Rota Romana. Having completed a two years' course in law, he obtained the degree of Doctor Juris Utriusque, and on his return to Mainz (1703) he was appointed vicar general and supreme judge of the ecclesiastical court of the archdiocese of Mainz. He was also employed on various diplomatic missions, as, for instance, to the court of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel in connection with the conversion of Duke Anton Ulrich and his granddaughter, the Princess Elisabeth Christine, later the wife of Emperor Charles VI.\n\nHe made three journeys to Rome to settle differences between the pope and the emperor concerning the limits of the province of Commacchio. On 7 February 1714, he was elected Abbot of Göttweig, and from that time forward was commissioned by the emperor to conduct diplomatic negotiations, in addition to being made imperial theologian and serving twice as honorary rector of the University of Vienna.\n\nAbbot Bessel was the second founder of Göttweig, which became, under his rule of thirty-five years, a centre of learning. He added to the rare Hebrew, Greek, and Roman coins and bracteates collections of copper-plate engravings (over 20,000), minerals, shells, and paintings. By the expenditure of princely sums he enriched the library with thousands of volumes, chiefly on historical subjects, as well as incunabula and MSS. Himself a thorough scholar, he encouraged among his religious all undertakings of a scientific or artistic nature. When the abbey was almost totally destroyed by fire, he gathered, by judicious management, means sufficient to rebuild it on a more splendid scale.\n\nPersonally, Abbot Bessel was a retiring religious, presenting to all a shining example of monastic piety and virtue.\n\nBesides several comparatively unimportant works, such as \"Mararita pretiosa\", \"Curiae Romanae praxis\", and \"Austriae ritus\", he published (Vienna, 1732) two letters of Augustine of Hippo to Optatus, Bishop of Mileve, which had been until then unknown. He is erroneously credited with the authorship of \"Quinquaginta Romano-catholicam fidem omnibus aliis praeferendi motiva\" (Mainz, 1708), a controversial work written originally in Latin, but translated into almost every European tongue.\n\nThe work which brought him lasting renown and a place in the records of the science of history is entitled \"Chronicon Gottwicense, tomus prodromus\" (Tegernsee, 1732). Not, as might be thought, a history of the abbey, this single volume is a comprehensive work on German diplomatics, treating of manuscripts found in registers and archives, original documentary evidence, diplomas of German emperors and kings, and inscriptions and seals, illustrated with maps and engravings on copper. The author also discusses medieval geography, as well as the royal palace-domains (Pfalzen) and the various districts of Germany. Great learning and clear critical acumen distinguish this work, which marked an epoch in the history of German diplomatics, and has served as the basis of all later works on the same subject.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4452295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4452295", "title": "José de la Riva Agüero", "text": "José de la Riva Agüero\n\nJosé Mariano de la Cruz de la Riva Agüero y Sánchez Boquete Marquess De Montealegre de Aulestia (3 May 1783 – 21 May 1858) was a soldier, politician, and historian who served as the 1st President of Peru and 2nd President of North Peru. He was the first Head of State who had the title of President of the Republic.\n\nHe wanted to finish the Peruvian independence process only by Peruvians' own efforts organized by the Segunda Campaña de Intermedios, but failed. His disagreements with Congress and Bolivar's Arrival determined en end of his mandate and his deportation, first to Guayaquil and then to Europe, where he lived until he came back to America in 1828. He went first to Chile and then returned to Peru in 1833 and was elected deputy to a Convention that reincorporated him in the army with the title of Grand Marshal.\n\nSupporter of President Luis José de Orbegoso, he was plenipotentiary minister in Chile and President of the Nor Peruvian State in the Peru-Bolivian Confederation. After the end of that political entity, he went again to Ecuador in 1843.\n\nRiva Agüero was son of José De la Riva Agüero y Basso della Rovere, a Spanish aristocrat of Italian origin, member of the Della Rovere family, and the criolla María Josefa Sánchez Boquete Román de Aulestia Marquess De Montealegre de Aulestia, and married the Belgian princess Caroline Arnoldine de Looz -Corswarem. He inherited from his mother's family the title of Marquess of Montealegre de Aulestia and was baptized in the parish of San Marcelo of Lima in 1784.\n\nHe spent his childhood and youth in Spain, where he was educated and later participated in the wars against the Napoleonic invasion. He moved to France for a time and then, when he was back in Madrid, was awarded with La Orden of Carlos III (1807). Moved by the nationalist ardor caused by the Napoleonic invasion in 1808, he enlisted in the Spanish army and participated in some early actions against the French in Guipúzcoa, Burgos and Córdoba.\n\nDuring his brief military experience, he was awarded and recognized by the Spanish Royal Crown because of the courage showed in a campaign where he saved the lives of 10 comrades after the mission's General was shot to death. In 1809, he returned to Lima and participated in the independence cause. José de San Martín named him prefect of Lima in 1822. Upon the departure of San Martín and the ensuing social instability in the country, Andrés de Santa Cruz revolted against the Peruvian Congress on February 26, 1823 and forced it to elect Riva Agüero as President. Riva Agüero proclaimed himself \"President of Peru\", the first to use such title.\n\nDuring his short government, he suffered the entry of Spanish troops into the capital and the departure of the government towards a new installation at the port of Callao. Under this situation, Riva Agüero lost all support of the Peruvian Congress, which awaited anxiously the arrival of Simón Bolívar. He was later deposed by Antonio José de Sucre. Sucre was succeeded by José Bernardo de Torre Tagle until the arrival of Simón Bolívar. Congress had been waiting for the Venezuelan \"Liberator\" to come to Peru and help to consolidate the Independence of the country, and was more than willing to grant him all necessary powers.\n\nFearing the loss of leadership, Riva Agüero sought to conciliate with the Viceroy to prevent the arrival of Bolívar, only to be arrested and accused of high treason. He was subsequently exiled to Chile. There he wrote the \"Memorias y documentos para la Historia de la Independencia del Perú y causas del mal éxito que ha tenido ésta\" (Memories and documents for the history of the independence of Peru and causes for its failure so far), one of the most important sources for the period.\n\nDuring the short-lived Peru-Bolivian Confederation Riva Agüero supported Mariscal Andrés de Santa Cruz, and became president of the Republic of North Peru in 1838. After its collapse, he retired from public life until his death in 1858.\n\nHe had five children with Caroline-Arnoldine de Looz-Corswarem. His eldest son was José de la Riva-Agüero y Looz-Corswarem.\n\nDuring his time in Spain, he joined an American lodge that worked for the independence of America. He came back to Peru after he was appointed as accountant and conservative judge in the area of luck and lotteries in the Tribunal Mayor de Cuentas de Lima (1810), returned to Peru, via Buenos Aires, decided to support the independence movement. During his trip, he avoided harassment from the authorities: he was briefly arrested in Montevideo but; in Buenos Aires, he had to flee furtively after realizing that they were going to return him to Spain. Something similar happened in the city of Mendoza.\n\nAlready established in Lima, he was associated with various groups of patriots and maintained active correspondence with those of Chile and Buenos Aires, which had already been installed Governing Boards. He ran Lima's Lodge from home, located at Santa Teresa (now fifth block of Jirón Puno) or the house of the Count of Vega del Ren, in the street of Botica San Pedro (now fourth block of Jirón Miró Quesada). He was involved in almost all Lima conspiracies, which were closely monitored by the authorities and eventually persecuted. However, the intervention of powerful friends and relatives saved him.\n\nIn 1816 he wrote a \"Manifestación histórica y política de la revolución de América\", published anonymously in Buenos Aires in 1818 in which he exposed twenty causes justifying the insurgency against the colonial regime.\n\nRiva Agüero was then in intensive contacts with José de San Martín, who after securing the independence of Chile planned to go to Peru. He sent valuable data on the situation of the royalist forces and helped define the plan of operations of the Army of the Andes to attack the central coast of Peru to penetrate the Alto Peru. For all these reasons, the figure of Riva Agüero was instrumental in achieving the emancipation of Spanish America.\n\nAt that time, a messenger of San Martin was captured with correspondence that was addressed to Riva Agüero and other Lima patriots in April 1819. The Viceroy Joaquín de la Pezuela then ordered the confinement of Riva Agüero in Tarma (central highlands of Peru) while preparing a boat to take him to Spain, but the legal appeal and the disruption caused by the arrival of San Martin during his Freedom Expedition led such a severe measure to be abandoned.\n\nEven in such conflict, Riva Agüero continued laboring for the cause of independence, convincing many officers to desert the royal troops. Indeed, he was one of those who influenced over Numancia Battalion's celebrated change to the patriot ranks. Similarly, he promoted the guerrilla organization to sever accesses in Lima. He also helped to produce the schism and disagreement among the Spanish generals themselves and help to infiltrate the royal army with double agents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22454240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22454240", "title": "Knut Einar Eriksen", "text": "Knut Einar Eriksen\n\nKnut Einar Eriksen (born 31 July 1944) is a Norwegian historian.\n\nHe was born in Sarpsborg, and took the cand.philol. degree in 1969. He was an associate professor at the University of Tromsø from 1975 to 1982, and a professor from 1982 to 1986. In 1989 he was appointed as a professor at the University of Oslo. He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, and from 1988 to 1990 he chaired the Norwegian Historical Association.\n\nAmong his most important publications is \"DNA og NATO. Striden om norsk NATO-medlemskap innen regjeringspartiet 1948–49\", which was released in 1972 and explores objections to NATO membership within the Norwegian Labour Party (DNA). In 1987 he wrote \"Frigjøring\", volume eight of the World War II work \"Norge i krig\", with Terje Halvorsen. In 1998 he released a two-volume history on surveillance in Norway, \"Den hemmelige krigen: overvåking i Norge 1914–1997\", together with Trond Bergh.\n\nWith the publication of the latter work he became involved in an unusual case. Former secretary of the Standing Committee on Finance and Economic Affairs Haakon Bingen sued Eriksen and Bergh as well as the publishing house Cappelen Akademisk Forlag, because the second volume of \"Den hemmelige krigen\" contained information that portrayed Bingen as a close friend of communist Peder Furubotn. In late 1999 the Supreme Court of Norway found that this was not true, and circulation of the book was forbidden, until the reference to Bingen had been amended. Bingen was also awarded in costs.\n"}
{"id": "10108021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10108021", "title": "List of health-related charity fundraisers", "text": "List of health-related charity fundraisers\n\nThis list of health related charity fundraisers includes events designed to raise funds to fight disease and improve health.\n\nNote that all runs allow jogging and walking.\n"}
{"id": "13423942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13423942", "title": "Lucas Bolsius", "text": "Lucas Bolsius\n\nLucas Bolsius (born 16 December 1958 in The Hague, South Holland) is a Dutch historian and politician of the Christian Democratic Appeal and since 31 August 2010 mayor of the city of Amersfoort.\n\nBolsius studied social history at Erasmus University Rotterdam. He was a member of the States of South Holland for the Christian Democratic Appeal between 1995 and 1998. In 1998 he became member of the municipal council of Rotterdam for the same party. He performed several jobs before becoming a full-time politician in 2002 when he became an alderman of the municipality of Rotterdam. His responsibilities included social affairs, quarters and public space. After the 2006 elections he continued as alderman. This time his responsibilities include financial affairs, sports and public space.\n\n"}
{"id": "44719851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44719851", "title": "Maryanne Cline Horowitz", "text": "Maryanne Cline Horowitz\n\nMaryanne Cline Horowitz is an American Historian of The Renaissance and \nof History of ideas. She is \nProfessor of History at Occidental College,\nAssociate of the UCLA Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies,\nand an affiliate of the USC Institute for Early Modern Studies.\nHorowitz is best known as the author of\n\"Seeds of Virtue and Knowledge\", \nwhich won the Jacques Barzun Prize in Cultural History in 1999 from the\nAmerican Philosophical Society. \nDr. Horowitz served as Editor-in-Chief of the \"New Dictionary of the History of Ideas\" (6 volumes or E-book) \nwhich the American Library Association division RUSA declared an Outstanding Reference Source 2005.\nShe is an innovator in women's and gender history and was\na Research Associate in Women's Studies in Religion at the Harvard Divinity School, 1979-80.\n\nShe serves on the Board of Editors of the Journal of the History of ideas, \nand edited two books in their series Library of the History of Ideas\nAs President of the Renaissance Conference of Southern California, she hosted a national \nconference for the Renaissance Society of America in 1985 at The Huntington Library, \nOccidental College, and the J. Paul Getty Museum, \ncommemorated in the co-edited book \"Renaissance Rereadings: Intertext and Context\".\n\n\nMaryanne Horowitz has published numerous articles and several books, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "28195089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28195089", "title": "Mojtaba Minovi", "text": "Mojtaba Minovi\n\nMojtaba Minovi (; February 1903 Tehran – January 1977, Tehran), the well-known Iranian historian, literary scholar and professor of Tehran University. he was a participant in the Ferdowsi Millenary celebrations in 1934 in Tehran.\n\n"}
{"id": "23954140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23954140", "title": "My Soul Is Rested", "text": "My Soul Is Rested\n\nMy Soul Is Rested: Movement Days in the Deep South Remembered is a book of oral history regarding the American Civil Rights Movement by journalist Howell Raines. It is based on interviews with people involved in — for and against — the struggle to end racial segregation in the American South from the time of the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott to the 1968 assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nRaines began his research for this book while the political editor for the \"Atlanta Constitution\". In February 1974, while looking at a statue of Georgian populist Thomas E. Watson from his office window, he pondered recent indications that Watson's dream of a Southern politics that did not pander to racial hatred might be at hand. He felt that the story of sacrifice and courage that had led to these changes needed to be more completely told by the people who lived it.\n\nAs a journalist in Atlanta, Raines already had access to members of the movement who had since become prominent politicians in the South. As he conducted interviews he obtained from the interviewees names and contact information for others who should be included. His southern heritage also helped to obtain interviews with people who had fought racial desegregation.\n\nAll but two of the interviews included were expressly conducted for this book between October 1974 and April 1976. The interview with Autherine Lucy was conducted by Culpepper Clark, a historian at the University of Alabama. The material from Martin Luther King, Sr. was excerpted from in interview conducted by the author for a television program on PBS station KETV in Atlanta.\n\nThe book took nineteen months to complete. In the meantime Raines had left the \"Constitution\" to work on it. By the time it was published he had become the political editor at the \"St. Petersburg Times\".\n\n\nColumnist Anthony Lewis reviewed the book for the \"New York Times\" in October 1977. He summarized his personal reaction to the book as follows: \"Every so often a book is so touching, so exhilarating that one laughs and murmurs and cries out while reading, wanting to tell others about it. \"My Soul Is Rested\" is like that.\" While discussing the impact of the book, he wrote: \"Indeed, the power of \"My Soul Is Rested\" lies in part in its recalling for us what the South was like when the Movement started. Nowadays, when the problems of race relations are more complicated both morally and legally, too many people forget the cruelties that blacks have suffered in this country.\"\n\nAfter the book was published Raines heard from friends in Atlanta and the American Southeast that they were having difficulties obtaining copies of the book. He later learned through Charles Haslam, president of the American Booksellers Association, that G.P. Putnam's regional salesman for the Southeast was making negative presentations of the book with racial overtones. Raines began to pursue the issue with Rich's department store, a major book distributor in Atlanta. Rich's chief book buyer, Faith Brunson, said that they would order only a few copies of the book because people were not interested in it except for Julian Bond and a few of \"those\" people. In a 1978 interview with Bill Cutler, Raines speculated that the buyers at Rich's may have held personal antipathy to the subject matter of the book, as one of the major sit-ins of the Civil Rights Movement had occurred at Rich's, which was then defending segregation.\n\n"}
{"id": "18152774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18152774", "title": "Philip Taft Labor History Book Award", "text": "Philip Taft Labor History Book Award\n\nThe Philip Taft Labor History Book Award is sponsored by the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations in cooperation with the Labor and Working-Class History Association for books relating to labor history of the United States. Labor history is considered \"in a broad sense to include the history of workers (free and unfree, organized and unorganized), their institutions, and their workplaces, as well as the broader historical trends that have shaped working-class life, including but not limited to: immigration, slavery, community, the state, race, gender, and ethnicity.\" The award is named after the noted labor historian Philip Taft (1902–1976).\n\nSource: ILR School, Cornell University\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48889435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48889435", "title": "Pietro Bizzarri", "text": "Pietro Bizzarri\n\nPietro Bizzarri (1525 – 1586) was an Italian historian and spy.\n\nBizzarri was born at Sassoferrato in Umbria; or, according to some writers, at Perugia, and so is sometimes called Petrus Perusius. When young he went to Venice, but having become a Protestant he left for Germany, in 1545. After the Battle of Mühlberg (1547) he moved on to England, where he spent periods his life.\n\nOn 4 July 1549 Bizzarri was admitted a Fellow of St John's College, Cambridge, by the royal commissioners for the visitation of the university, being incorporated there ad eundem; and Francis Russell became his patron. The accession of Queen Mary saw him leave England; he returned on the accession of Elizabeth I.\n\nBishop John Jewel, prompted by Archbishop Matthew Parker, gave Bizzari the prebend of Alton Pancras in Salisbury Cathedral. This followed the presentation to the queen of his \"De principe tractatus\". Meanwhile Russell had become governor of Berwick. Bizzarri went north with him. He presented Mary, Queen of Scots with a different treatise, and shortly went abroad.\n\nNot receiving further church preferment, Bizzarri began to travel. He obtained, in 1570, a license from William Cecil to go abroad, to print his own works, and gather news of foreign affairs for the government. He passed some time at Genoa; in Germany he obtained, through the influence of Hubert Languet, employment with the Elector of Saxony. On 20 October 1573 he addressed from Augsburg a letter in Italian to Cecil, now Lord Burghley. He went on to Antwerp, where he met the scholarly circle around Christopher Plantin. In 1581 he asked Justus Lipsius in Leyden to find a publisher of his \"Universal History\" in eight volumes. He was back in Antwerp in December 1583; on 23 November 1586 he addressed a Latin letter from The Hague to Burghley.\n\nBizzari is thought to have died soon after November 1586.\n\nBizzarri's works are:\n\n\nBizzarri also brought out a new edition of \"La Santa Comedia\" of Mario Cardoini, Venice, 1566.\n\n"}
{"id": "26769254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26769254", "title": "Roy Martin Haines", "text": "Roy Martin Haines\n\nRoy Martin Haines, (1924/5 – 1 February 2017) was a British historian.\n\nHaines was the son of Evan George Martin Haines, who served in the Welsh Guards during World War I and died in 1929 aged 32 from an illness attributable to his military service. His mother was Sarah Hilda Haines, Hall, for more than a quarter of a century the highly respected district nurse and midwife in Catshill, near Bromsgrove: she received the Royal Maundy in 1980 at Worcester.\n\nBetween 1932 and 1938 Haines was a pupil at St Michael's Preparatory School, Otford. He then attended Bromsgrove School, which he entered in 1938 as a foundation scholar.\n\nHaines was later educated at St Chad's College in the University of Durham (Gisborne Scholar 1943), where he was admitted to the degrees of BA, MA, and MLitt (1954) (supervised by Professor H.S. Offler), and received a Diploma in Education. While at Durham Haines came into contact with Professor Alexander Hamilton Thompson, whose scholarship was to remain an abiding influence.\n\nHaines returned to his former prep school, St Michael's, as a master from 1947 until 1954. He was responsible for establishing a termly newsletter and later became Chairman of the Old Michaelian Association. Kendall Carey, a pupil at St Michael's from 1949 until 1956, described Haines as \"a superb teacher\". In addition to the standard curriculum Haines taught heraldry, architecture, and medieval battles, and demonstrated motte-and-bailey castles with sand and matchsticks.\n\nHe subsequently studied at Worcester College, Oxford, with the help of a grant from the Chance Educational Trust, eventually gaining a DPhil (1959). Some of his publications were successfully submitted in 2010 for the degree of DLitt of the University of Oxford.\n\nHaines was a history master at Westminster School, where he was later promoted to housemaster of Wren's. He was also Assistant Editor of the \"Victoria County History of Oxfordshire\".\n\nHaines moved to Canada in 1966, first to Mount Allison University, New Brunswick, and then in 1967 to Dalhousie University . He later became Professor of Medieval History at Dalhousie.\n\nIn 1978–80 Haines was Canada Council Killam Senior Research Scholar. He spent part of the time at the Vatican Archives. In 1987/8 he was Visiting Fellow of Clare Hall, Cambridge, and was appointed a life member of the college in 1990.\n\nHaines was a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London (elected 2 March 1967) and of the Royal Historical Society. In 1987 he delivered the Bertie Wilkinson Memorial Lecture at the University of Toronto.\n\nAfter retiring from Dalhousie Haines returned to the United Kingdom, where he lived in Putney before moving to Curry Rivel in Somerset. He died on 1 February 2017, at the age of 92.\n\nIn 1957 Haines married Carol Pamela Mary Dight, an Oxford M.A., and daughter of the late F. H. Dight O.B.E., a meteorologist.\n\nHe was the father-in-law of Alexander Jones, FRSC, Professor of the History of the Exact Sciences in Antiquity at the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World and Professor of Mathematics at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, both at New York University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9765654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9765654", "title": "September 11th Fund", "text": "September 11th Fund\n\nThe September 11th Fund was created by the New York Community Trust and the United Way of New York City in response to the destruction of the World Trade Center on 9/11/2001.\n\nThe Fund collected $534 million from more than two million donors and distributed a total of 559 grants totaling $528 million. Grants from the Fund provided cash assistance, counseling and other services to the families of those killed in the 9/11 attacks, the injured and those displaced from their homes or jobs. The Fund also provided grants to affected small businesses and community organizations.\n\nNineEleven CaseManagement was selected by the Fund to administer all of the behavioral, mental health, and substance abuse benefits that the Fund determined the victims and families of the 9-11 attacks were entitled to.\n\nIn December 2004, the Fund completed its distribution of funds and closed its doors.\n\nThis is a separate fund from the similarly named September 11th Victim Compensation Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "998777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=998777", "title": "Shroud of Turin", "text": "Shroud of Turin\n\nThe Shroud of Turin or Turin Shroud (, ' or ') is a length of linen cloth bearing the negative image of a man who is alleged to be Jesus of Nazareth. It is kept in the royal chapel of the Cathedral of Saint John the Baptist in Turin, Piedmont, northern Italy. The cloth itself is believed by some to be the burial shroud that Jesus was wrapped in when he was buried after crucifixion. It is first securely attested in 1390, when a local bishop wrote that the shroud was a forgery and that an unnamed artist had confessed. Radiocarbon dating of a sample of the shroud material is consistent with this date.\n\nThe Catholic Church has neither formally endorsed nor rejected the shroud, but in 1958 Pope Pius XII approved of the image in association with the devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus. Pope John Paul II called the Shroud \"a mirror of the Gospel\". Other Christian denominations, such as Anglicans and Methodists, have also shown devotion to the Shroud of Turin.\n\nDiverse arguments have been made in scientific and popular publications claiming to prove that the cloth is the authentic burial shroud of Jesus, based on disciplines ranging from chemistry to biology and medical forensics to optical image analysis. In 1988, three radiocarbon dating tests dated a corner piece of the shroud from the Middle Ages, between the years 1260 and 1390. Some shroud researchers have challenged the dating, arguing the results were skewed by the introduction of material from the Middle Ages to the portion of the shroud used for radiocarbon dating. However, all of the hypotheses used to challenge the radiocarbon dating have been scientifically refuted, including the medieval repair hypothesis, the bio-contamination hypothesis and the carbon monoxide hypothesis.\n\nThe image on the shroud is much clearer in black-and-white negative than in its natural sepia color, and this negative image was first observed in 1898 on the reverse photographic plate of amateur photographer Secondo Pia, who was allowed to photograph it while it was being exhibited. A variety of methods have been proposed for the formation of the image, but the actual method used has not yet been conclusively identified. Despite numerous investigations and tests, the status of the Shroud of Turin remains murky, and the nature of the image and how it was fixed on the cloth remain puzzling. The shroud continues to be both intensely studied and controversial.\n\nThe shroud is rectangular, measuring approximately . The cloth is woven in a three-to-one herringbone twill composed of flax fibrils. Its most distinctive characteristic is the faint, brownish image of a front and back view of a naked man with his hands folded across his groin. The two views are aligned along the midplane of the body and point in opposite directions. The front and back views of the head nearly meet at the middle of the cloth.\n\nThe image of the \"Man of the Shroud\" has a beard, moustache, and shoulder-length hair parted in the middle. He is muscular and tall (various experts have measured him as from ). Reddish-brown stains are found on the cloth, showing various wounds that, according to proponents, correlate with the yellowish image, the pathophysiology of crucifixion, and the Biblical description of the death of Jesus.\n\nIn May 1898 Italian photographer Secondo Pia was allowed to photograph the shroud. He took the first photograph of the shroud on 28 May 1898. In 1931, another photographer, Giuseppe Enrie, photographed the shroud and obtained results similar to Pia's. In 1978, ultraviolet photographs were taken of the shroud.\n\nThe shroud was damaged in a fire in 1532 in the chapel in Chambery, France. There are some burn holes and scorched areas down both sides of the linen, caused by contact with molten silver during the fire that burned through it in places while it was folded. Fourteen large triangular patches and eight smaller ones were sewn onto the cloth by Poor Clare nuns to repair the damage.\n\nThe historical records for the shroud can be separated into two time periods: before 1390 and from 1390 to the present. Prior to 1390 there are some similar images such as the Pray Codex. However, what is claimed by some to be the image of a shroud on the Pray Codex has crosses on one side, an interlocking step pyramid pattern on the other, and no image of Jesus. Critics point out that it may not be a shroud at all, but rather a rectangular tombstone, as seen on other sacred images. The text of the codex also fails to mention a miraculous image on the codex shroud.\n\nIt is often mentioned that the first certain historical record dates from 1353 or 1357. However the presence of the Turin Shroud in Lirey, France, is only undoubtedly attested in 1390 when Bishop Pierre d'Arcis wrote a memorandum to Pope Clement VII (Avignon Obedience), stating that the shroud was a forgery and that the artist had confessed. Historical records seem to indicate that a shroud bearing an image of a crucified man existed in the small town of Lirey around the years 1353 to 1357 in the possession of a French Knight, Geoffroi de Charny, who died at the Battle of Poitiers in 1356. However the correspondence of this shroud in Lirey with the shroud in Turin, and its origin has been debated by scholars and lay authors, with statements of forgery attributed to artists born a century apart. Some contend that the Lirey shroud was the work of a confessed forger and murderer.\n\nThere are no definite historical records concerning the particular shroud currently at Turin Cathedral prior to the 14th century. A burial cloth, which some historians maintain was the Shroud, was owned by the Byzantine emperors but disappeared during the Sack of Constantinople in 1204. Although there are numerous reports of Jesus' burial shroud, or an image of his head, of unknown origin, being venerated in various locations before the 14th century, there is no historical evidence that these refer to the shroud currently at Turin Cathedral.\n\nThe history of the shroud from the 15th century is well recorded. In 1453 Margaret de Charny deeded the Shroud to the House of Savoy. In 1578 the shroud was transferred to Turin. Since the 17th century the shroud has been displayed (e.g. in the chapel built for that purpose by Guarino Guarini) and in the 19th century it was first photographed during a public exhibition.\n\nIn 1532, the shroud suffered damage from a fire in a chapel of Chambéry, capital of the Savoy region, where it was stored. A drop of molten silver from the reliquary produced a symmetrically placed mark through the layers of the folded cloth. Poor Clare Nuns attempted to repair this damage with patches. In 1578 Emmanuel Philibert, Duke of Savoy ordered the cloth to be brought from Chambéry to Turin and it has remained at Turin ever since.\n\nRepairs were made to the shroud in 1694 by Sebastian Valfrè to improve the repairs of the Poor Clare nuns. Further repairs were made in 1868 by Clotilde of Savoy. The shroud remained the property of the House of Savoy until 1983, when it was given to the Holy See.\n\nA fire, possibly caused by arson, threatened the shroud on 11 April 1997. In 2002, the Holy See had the shroud restored. The cloth backing and thirty patches were removed, making it possible to photograph and scan the reverse side of the cloth, which had been hidden from view. A faint part-image of the body was found on the back of the shroud in 2004.\n\nThe Shroud was placed back on public display (the 18th time in its history) in Turin from 10 April to 23 May 2010; and according to Church officials, more than 2 million visitors came to see it.\n\nOn Holy Saturday (30 March) 2013, images of the shroud were streamed on various websites as well as on television for the first time in 40 years. Roberto Gottardo of the diocese of Turin stated that for the first time ever they had released high definition images of the shroud that can be used on tablet computers and can be magnified to show details not visible to the naked eye. As this rare exposition took place, Pope Francis issued a carefully worded statement which urged the faithful to contemplate the shroud with awe but, like his predecessors, he \"stopped firmly short of asserting its authenticity\".\n\nThe shroud was again placed on display in the cathedral in Turin from 19 April 2015 until 24 June 2015. There was no charge to view it, but an appointment was required.\n\nThe Shroud has undergone several \nrestorations and several steps have been taken to preserve it to avoid further damage and contamination. The shroud is kept under the laminated bulletproof glass of the airtight case. The temperature- and humidity-controlled case is filled with argon (99.5%) and oxygen (0.5%) to prevent chemical changes. The Shroud itself is kept on an aluminum support sliding on runners and stored flat within the case.\n\nReligious beliefs about the burial cloths of Jesus have existed for centuries. The Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke state that Joseph of Arimathea wrapped the body of Jesus in a piece of linen cloth and placed it in a new tomb. The Gospel of John refers to strips of linen used by Joseph of Arimathea and states that Apostle Peter found multiple pieces of burial cloth after the tomb was found open, strips of linen cloth for the body and a separate cloth for the head. The Gospel of the Hebrews, a 2nd-century manuscript, states that Jesus gave the linen cloth to the servant of the priest.\n\nAlthough pieces said to be of burial cloths of Jesus are held by at least four churches in France and three in Italy, none has gathered as much religious following as the Shroud of Turin. The religious beliefs and practices associated with the shroud predate historical and scientific discussions and have continued in the 21st century, although the Catholic Church has never passed judgment on its authenticity. An example is the Holy Face Medal bearing the image from the shroud, worn by some Catholics. Indeed, the Shroud of Turin is respected by Christians of several traditions, including Baptists, Catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, Orthodox, Pentecostals, and Presbyterians. Several Lutheran parishes have hosted replicas of the Shroud of Turin, for didactic and devotional purposes.\n\nIn 1543 John Calvin, in his \"Treatise on Relics\", wrote of the shroud, which was then at Nice (it was moved to Turin in 1578), \"How is it possible that those sacred historians, who carefully related all the miracles that took place at Christ's death, should have omitted to mention one so remarkable as the likeness of the body of our Lord remaining on its wrapping sheet?\" In an interpretation of the Gospel of John, Calvin concluded that strips of linen were used to cover the body (excluding the head) and a separate cloth to cover the head. He then stated that \"either St. John is a liar\", or else anyone who promotes such a shroud is \"convicted of falsehood and deceit\".\n\nAlthough the shroud image is currently associated with Catholic devotions to the Holy Face of Jesus, the devotions themselves predate Secondo Pia's 1898 photograph. Such devotions had been started in 1844 by the Carmelite nun Marie of St Peter (based on \"pre-crucifixion\" images associated with the Veil of Veronica) and promoted by Leo Dupont, also called the Apostle of the Holy Face. In 1851 Dupont formed the \"Archconfraternity of the Holy Face\" in Tours, France, well before Secondo Pia took the photograph of the shroud.\n\nThe religious concept of the miraculous \"acheiropoieton\" has a long history in Christianity, going back to at least the 6th century. Among the most prominent portable early \"acheiropoieta\" are the Image of Camuliana and the Mandylion or Image of Edessa, both painted icons of Christ held in the Byzantine Empire and now generally regarded as lost or destroyed, as is the Hodegetria image of the Virgin. Other early images in Italy, all heavily and unfortunately restored, that have been revered as \"acheiropoieta\" now have relatively little following, as attention has focused on the Shroud.\n\nProponents for the authenticity of the Shroud of Turin argue that empirical analysis and scientific methods are insufficient for understanding the methods used for image formation on the shroud, believing that the image was miraculously produced at the moment of Resurrection. Some proponents have argued that the image on the shroud can be explained with scientific evidence that supports the Gospel narrative. John Jackson (a member of STURP) proposed that the image was formed by radiation methods beyond the understanding of current science, in particular via the \"collapsing cloth\" onto a body that was radiating energy at the moment of resurrection. However, STURP member Alan Adler has stated that Jackson's theory is not generally accepted as scientific, given that it runs counter to the laws of physics. In 1989 physicist Thomas Phillips speculated that the Shroud image was formed by neutron radiation due to a miraculous bodily resurrection.\n\nAntipope Clement VII refrained from expressing his opinion on the shroud; however, subsequent popes from Julius II on took its authenticity for granted.\n\nThe Vatican newspaper \"Osservatore Romano\" covered the story of Secondo Pia's photograph of 28 May 1898 in its edition of 15 June 1898, but it did so with no comment and thereafter Church officials generally refrained from officially commenting on the photograph for almost half a century.\n\nThe first official association between the image on the Shroud and the Catholic Church was made in 1940 based on the formal request by Sister Maria Pierina De Micheli to the curia in Milan to obtain authorization to produce a medal with the image. The authorization was granted and the first medal with the image was offered to Pope Pius XII who approved the medal. The image was then used on what became known as the Holy Face Medal worn by many Catholics, initially as a means of protection during World War II. In 1958 Pope Pius XII approved of the image in association with the devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus, and declared its feast to be celebrated every year the day before Ash Wednesday. Following the approval by Pope Pius XII, Catholic devotions to the Holy Face of Jesus have been almost exclusively associated with the image on the shroud.\n\nIn 1983 the Shroud was given to the Holy See by the House of Savoy. However, as with all relics of this kind, the Roman Catholic Church made no pronouncements on its authenticity. As with other approved Catholic devotions, the matter has been left to the personal decision of the faithful, as long as the Church does not issue a future notification to the contrary. In the Church's view, whether the cloth is authentic or not has no bearing whatsoever on the validity of what Jesus taught or on the saving power of his death and resurrection.\n\nPope John Paul II stated in 1998 that: \"Since it is not a matter of faith, the Church has no specific competence to pronounce on these questions. She entrusts to scientists the task of continuing to investigate, so that satisfactory answers may be found to the questions connected with this Sheet.\" Pope John Paul II showed himself to be deeply moved by the image of the Shroud and arranged for public showings in 1998 and 2000. In his address at the Turin Cathedral on Sunday 24 May 1998 (the occasion of the 100th year of Secondo Pia's 28 May 1898 photograph), he said: \"The Shroud is an image of God's love as well as of human sin ... The imprint left by the tortured body of the Crucified One, which attests to the tremendous human capacity for causing pain and death to one's fellow man, stands as an icon of the suffering of the innocent in every age.\"\n\nIn 2000, Cardinal Ratzinger, later to become Pope Benedict XVI, wrote that the Shroud of Turin is \"a truly mysterious image, which no human artistry was capable of producing. In some inexplicable way, it appeared imprinted upon cloth and claimed to show the true face of Christ, the crucified and risen Lord\". In June 2008, three years after he assumed the papacy, Pope Benedict announced that the Shroud would be publicly displayed in the spring of 2010, and stated that he would like to go to Turin to see it along with other pilgrims. During his visit in Turin on Sunday 2 May 2010, Benedict described the Shroud of Turin as an \"extraordinary Icon\", the \"Icon of Holy Saturday ... corresponding in every way to what the Gospels tell us of Jesus\", \"an Icon written in blood, the blood of a man who was scourged, crowned with thorns, crucified and whose right side was pierced\". The pope said also that in the Turin Shroud \"we see, as in a mirror, our suffering in the suffering of Christ\". On 30 May 2010, Benedict XVI beatified Sister Maria Pierina De Micheli who coined the Holy Face Medal, based on Secondo Pia's photograph of the Shroud.\n\nOn 30 March 2013, as part of the Easter celebrations, there was an extraordinary exposition of the shroud in the Cathedral of Turin. Pope Francis recorded a video message for the occasion, in which he described the image on the shroud as \"this Icon of a man\", and stated that \"the Man of the Shroud invites us to contemplate Jesus of Nazareth.\" In his carefully worded statement Pope Francis urged the faithful to contemplate the shroud with awe, but \"stopped firmly short of asserting its authenticity\".\n\nDuring his weekly general audience on 5 November 2014, Pope Francis announced he would go on a pilgrimage to Turin on 21 June 2015, to pray before, venerate the Holy Shroud and honor St. John Bosco on the bicentenary of his birth.\n\nSindonology (from the Greek σινδών—sindon, the word used in the Gospel of Mark to describe the type of the burial cloth of Jesus) is the formal study of the Shroud. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" cites the first use of this word in 1964: \"The investigation ... assumed the stature of a separate discipline and was given a name, sindonology\", but also identifies the use of \"sindonological\" in 1950 and \"sindonologist\" in 1953.\n\nSecondo Pia's 1898 photographs of the shroud allowed the scientific community to begin to study it. A variety of scientific theories regarding the shroud have since been proposed, based on disciplines ranging from chemistry to biology and medical forensics to optical image analysis. The scientific approaches to the study of the Shroud fall into three groups: \"material analysis\" (both chemical and historical), \"biology and medical forensics\" and \"image analysis\".\n\nThe initial steps towards the scientific study of the shroud were taken soon after the first set of black and white photographs became available early in the 20th century. In 1902 Yves Delage, a French professor of comparative anatomy, published the first study on the subject. Delage declared the image anatomically flawless and argued that the features of rigor mortis, wounds, and blood flows were evidence that the image was formed by direct or indirect contact with a corpse. William Meacham mentions several other medical studies between 1936 and 1981 that agree with Delage. However, these were all indirect studies without access to the shroud itself.\n\nThe first direct examination of the shroud by a scientific team was undertaken in 1969–1973 in order to advise on preservation of the shroud and determine specific testing methods. This led to the appointment of an 11-member Turin Commission to advise on the preservation of the relic and on specific testing. Five of the commission members were scientists, and preliminary studies of samples of the fabric were conducted in 1973.\n\nIn 1976 physicist John P. Jackson, thermodynamicist Eric Jumper and photographer William Mottern used image analysis technologies developed in aerospace science for analyzing the images of the Shroud. In 1977 these three scientists and over thirty others formed the Shroud of Turin Research Project. In 1978 this group, often called STURP, was given direct access to the Shroud.\n\nAlso in 1978, independently from the STURP research, Giovanni Tamburelli obtained at CSELT a 3D-elaboration from the Shroud with higher resolution than Jumper and Mottern. A second result of Tamburelli was the electronic removal from the image of the blood that apparently covers the face.\n\nAfter years of discussion, the Holy See permitted radiocarbon dating on portions of a swatch taken from a corner of the shroud. Independent tests in 1988 at the University of Oxford, the University of Arizona, and the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology concluded with 95% confidence that the shroud material dated to 1260–1390 AD. This 13th- to 14th-century dating is much too recent for the shroud to have been associated with Jesus of Nazareth. The dating does on the other hand match the first appearance of the shroud in church history.\nThis dating is also slightly more recent than that estimated by art historian W. S. A. Dale, who postulated on artistic grounds that the shroud is an 11th-century icon made for use in worship services.\n\nSome proponents for the authenticity of the shroud have attempted to discount the radiocarbon dating result by claiming that the sample may represent a medieval \"invisible\" repair fragment rather than the image-bearing cloth. However, all of the hypotheses used to challenge the radiocarbon dating have been scientifically refuted, including the medieval repair hypothesis, the bio-contamination hypothesis and the carbon monoxide hypothesis.\n\nIn 2013, Giulio Fanti performed new dating studies on fragments obtained from the shroud. He performed three different tests including ATR–FTIR and Raman spectroscopy (absorption of light of different colors). The date range from these tests date the shroud between 300 BC and 400 AD. These studies have been publicly disregarded by Cesare Nosiglia, archbishop of Turin and custodian of the shroud. Cardinal Nosiglia stated that \"as it is not possible to be certain that the analysed material was taken from the fabric of the shroud no serious value can be recognized to the results of such experiments\".\n\nIn the 1970s a special eleven-member Turin Commission conducted several tests. Conventional and electron microscopic examination of the Shroud at that time revealed an absence of heterogeneous coloring material or pigment. In 1979, Walter McCrone, upon analyzing the samples he was given by STURP, concluded that the image is actually made up of billions of submicrometre pigment particles. The only fibrils that had been made available for testing of the stains were those that remained affixed to custom-designed adhesive tape applied to thirty-two different sections of the image.\n\nMark Anderson, who was working for McCrone, analyzed the Shroud samples. In his book Ray Rogers states that Anderson, who was McCrone's Raman microscopy expert, concluded that the samples acted as organic material when he subjected them to the laser.\n\nJohn Heller and Alan Adler examined the same samples and agreed with McCrone's result that the cloth contains iron oxide. However, they concluded, the exceptional purity of the chemical and comparisons with other ancient textiles showed that, while retting flax absorbs iron selectively, the iron itself was not the source of the image on the shroud.\n\nIn 2000, fragments of a burial shroud from the 1st century were discovered in a tomb near Jerusalem, believed to have belonged to a Jewish high priest or member of the aristocracy. The shroud was composed of a simple two-way weave, unlike the complex herringbone twill of the Turin Shroud. Based on this discovery, the researchers stated that the Turin Shroud did not originate from Jesus-era Jerusalem.\n\nAccording to textile expert Mechthild Flury-Lemberg of Hamburg, a seam in the cloth corresponds to a fabric found at the fortress of Masada near the Dead Sea, which dated to the 1st century. The weaving pattern, 3:1 twill, is consistent with first-century Syrian design, according to the appraisal of Gilbert Raes of the Ghent Institute of Textile Technology in Belgium. Flury-Lemberg stated: \"The linen cloth of the Shroud of Turin does not display any weaving or sewing techniques which would speak against its origin as a high-quality product of the textile workers of the first century.\"\n\nJoseph Kohlbeck from the Hercules Aerospace Company in Utah and Richard Levi-Setti of the Enrico Fermi Institute examined some dirt particles from the Shroud surface. The dirt was found to be travertine aragonite limestone.\n\nThere are several reddish stains on the shroud suggesting blood, but it is uncertain whether these stains were produced at the same time as the image, or afterwards. McCrone (see painting hypothesis) identified these as containing iron oxide, theorizing that its presence was likely due to simple pigment materials used in medieval times. Other researchers, including Alan Adler, identified the reddish stains as blood and interpreted the iron oxide as a natural residue of hemoglobin.\n\nWorking independently, forensic pathologist Pier Luigi Baima Bollone concurred with Heller and Adler's findings and identified the blood as the AB blood group. \n\nJoe Nickell argues that results similar to Heller and Adler's could be obtained from tempera paint. Skeptics also cite other forensic blood tests whose results dispute the authenticity of the Shroud, and point to the possibility that the blood could belong to a person handling the shroud, and that the apparent blood flows on the shroud are unrealistically neat.\n\nIn 1997 Avinoam Danin, a botanist at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, reported that he had identified \"Chrysanthemum coronarium\" (now called \"Glebionis coronaria\"), \"Cistus creticus\" and \"Zygophyllum\" whose pressed image on the shroud was first noticed by Alan Whanger in 1985 on the photographs of the shroud taken in 1931. He reported that the outlines of the flowering plants would point to March or April and the environs of Jerusalem. In a separate report in 1978 Danin and Uri Baruch reported on the pollen grains on the cloth samples, stating that they were appropriate to the spring in Israel. Max Frei, a Swiss police criminologist who initially obtained pollen from the shroud during the STURP investigation, stated that of the 58 different types of pollens found, 45 were from the Jerusalem area, while six were from the eastern Middle East, with one pollen species growing exclusively in Istanbul, and two found in Edessa, Turkey. Mark Antonacci argues that the pollen evidence and flower images are inherently interwoven and strengthen each other. However it was subsequently determined that Baruch's work was \"scientifically unsafe\", and Danin thereafter disowned the publication of this work.\n\nDanin stated in 2011, that: \"In 2001 we brought most of the slides to Prof. Dr. Thomas Litt who is an expert palynologist and has very sophisticated microscopic equipment. Prof. Litt concluded that none of the pollen grains he saw could be named at a species level. Hence, all the conclusions drawn from previous palynological investigations of Dr. Frei's material should be suspended until a new collection of pollen grains can be carried out and the grains thus obtained can be studied with modern equipment and by an expert of pollen of this area.\" \n\nSkeptics have argued that the flower images are too faint for Danin's determination to be definite, that an independent review of the pollen strands showed that one strand out of the 26 provided contained significantly more pollen than the others, perhaps pointing to deliberate contamination. Skeptics also argue that Max Frei had previously been duped in his examination of the Hitler Diaries and that he may have also been duped in this case, or may have introduced the pollens himself. J. Beaulieau has stated that Frei was a self-taught amateur palynologist, was not properly trained, and that his sample was too small.\n\nIn 2008 Avinoam Danin reported analysis based on the ultraviolet photographs of Miller and Pellicori taken in 1978. Danin reported five new species of flower, which also bloom in March and April and stated that a comparison of the 1931 black and white photographs and the 1978 ultraviolet images indicate that the flower images are genuine and not the artifact of a specific method of photography.\n\nA study published in 2011 by Lorusso and others subjected two photographs of the shroud to detailed modern digital image processing, one of them being a reproduction of the photographic negative taken by Giuseppe Enrie in 1931. They did not find any images of flowers or coins or anything else on either image, they noted that the faint images identified by the Whangers were \"only visible by incrementing the photographic contrast\", and they concluded that these signs may be linked to protuberances in the yarn, and possibly also to the alteration and influence of the texture of the Enrie photographic negative during its development in 1931.\n\nIn 2015, Italian researchers Barcaccia et al. published a new study in \"Scientific Reports\". They examined the human and non-human DNA found when the shroud and its backing cloth were vacuumed in 1977 and 1988. They found traces of 19 different plant taxa, including plants native to Mediterranean countries, Central Europe, North Africa, the Middle East, Eastern Asia (China) and the Americas. Of the human mtDNA, sequences were found belonging to haplogroups that are typical of various ethnicities and geographic regions, including Europe, North and East Africa, the Middle East and India. A few non-plant and non-human sequences were also detected, including various birds and one ascribable to a marine worm common in the Northern Pacific Ocean, next to Canada. After sequencing some DNA of pollen and dust found on the shroud, they confirmed that many people from many different places came in contact with the shroud. According to the scientists, \"such diversity does not exclude a Medieval origin in Europe but it would be also compatible with the historic path followed by the Turin Shroud during its presumed journey from the Near East. Furthermore, the results raise the possibility of an Indian manufacture of the linen cloth.\"\n\nIn 2017, a new examination claimed that \"the most abundant pollen on the relic may be attribruted to the genus Helichrysum\". According to the author, palynologist Marzia Boi, it \"confirms and authenticates the theory that the corpse kept in the Shroud received a funeral and burial with all the honour and respect that would have been customary in the Hebrew tradition\".\n\nA number of studies on the anatomical consistency of the image on the shroud and the nature of the wounds on it have been performed, following the initial study by Yves Delage in 1902. While Delage declared the image anatomically flawless, others have presented arguments to support both authenticity and forgery.\n\nIn 1950 Pierre Barbet wrote a long study called \"A Doctor at Calvary\" which was later published as a book. Barbet stated that his experience as a battlefield surgeon during World War I led him to conclude that the image on the shroud was authentic, anatomically correct and consistent with crucifixion.\n\nFor over a decade, Frederick Zugibe performed a number of studies using himself and volunteers suspended from a cross, and presented his conclusions in a book in 1998. Zugibe considered the shroud image and its proportions as authentic, but disagreed with Barbet and Bucklin on various details such as blood flow. Zugibe concluded that the image on the shroud is of the body of a man, but that the body had been washed.\n\nIn 2001, Pierluigi Baima Bollone, a professor of forensic medicine in Turin, stated that the forensic examination of the wounds and bloodstains on the Shroud indicate that the image was that of the dead body of a man who was whipped, wounded around the head by a pointed instrument and nailed at the extremities before dying.\n\nIn 2010 Giulio Fanti, professor of mechanical measurements, wrote that \"apart from the hands afterward placed on the pubic area, the front and back images are compatible with the Shroud being used to wrap the body of a man tall, which, due to cadaveric rigidity, remained in the same position it would have assumed during crucifixion\".\nNickell, in 1983, and Gregory S. Paul in 2010, separately state that the proportions of the image are not realistic. Paul stated that the face and proportions of the shroud image are impossible, that the figure cannot represent that of an actual person and that the posture was inconsistent. They argued that the forehead on the shroud is too small; and that the arms are too long and of different lengths and that the distance from the eyebrows to the top of the head is non-representative. They concluded that the features can be explained if the shroud is a work of a Gothic artist.\n\nA 2013 study analysed the wounds seemingly evident on the image in the shroud and compared them favorably to the wounds which the gospels state were inflicted on Jesus. However, the analysis of a crucified Roman, discovered near Venice in 2007, shows heel wounds consistent with those found on Jehohanan and are not consistent with wounds depicted on the shroud. Also, neither of the crucifixion victims known to archaeology show evidence of wrist wounds.\n\nBoth art-historical, digital image processing and analog techniques have been applied to the shroud images.\n\nIn 1976 Pete Schumacher, John Jackson and Eric Jumper analysed a photograph of the shroud image using a VP8 Image Analyzer, which was developed for NASA to create brightness maps of the moon. A brightness map (isometric display) interprets differences of brightness within an image as differences of elevation – brighter patches are seen as being closer to the camera, and darker patches further away. Our minds interpret these gradients as a \"pseudo-three-dimensional image\". They found that, unlike any photograph they had analyzed, the shroud image has the property of decoding into a 3-dimensional image, when the darker parts of the image are interpreted to be those features of the man that were closest to the shroud and the lighter areas of the image those features that were farthest. The researchers could not replicate the effect when they attempted to transfer similar images using techniques of block print, engravings, a hot statue, and bas-relief.\n\nHowever optical physicist and former STURP member John Dee German has since noted that it is not difficult to make a photograph which has 3D qualities. If the object being photographed is lighted from the front, and a non-reflective \"fog\" of some sort exists between the camera and the object, then less light will reach and reflect back from the portions of the object that are farther from the lens, thus creating a contrast which is dependent on distance.\n\nResearchers Jackson, Jumper, and Stephenson report detecting the impressions of coins placed on both eyes after a digital study in 1978. They claimed to have seen a two-lepton coin on the right eyelid dating from 29–30, and a one-lepton coin on the left eyebrow minted in 29. The existence of the coin images is rejected by most scientists. A study published in 2011 by Lorusso and others subjected two photographs of the shroud to detailed modern digital image processing, one of them being a reproduction of the photographic negative taken by Giuseppe Enrie in 1931. They did not find any images of flowers or coins or anything else on either image, they noted that the faint images identified by the Whangers were \"only visible by incrementing the photographic contrast\", and they concluded that these signs may be linked to protuberances in the yarn, and possibly also to the alteration and influence of the texture of the Enrie photographic negative during its development in 1931. The use of coins to cover the eyes of the dead is not attested for 1st-century Palestine.\n\nIn 2004, in an article in \"Journal of Optics A\", Fanti and Maggiolo reported finding a faint second face on the backside of the cloth, after the 2002 restoration.\n\nThe front image of the Turin Shroud, 1.95 m long, is not directly compatible with the back image, 2.02 m long.\n\nIf Jesus' dead body actually produced the images on the shroud, one would expect the bodily areas touching the ground to be more distinct. In fact, Jesus' hands and face are depicted with great detail, while his buttocks and his navel are faintly outlined or invisible, a discrepancy explained with the artist's consideration of modesty. Also, Jesus' right arm and hand are abnormally elongated, allowing him to modestly cover his genital area, which is physically impossible for an ordinary dead body lying prone. No wrinkles or other irregularities distort the image, which is improbable if the cloth had covered the irregular form of a body. Furthermore, Jesus' physical appearance corresponds to Byzantine iconography.\n\nIn 1979 Greek and Latin letters were reported as written near the face. These were further studied by André Marion, a professor at the École supérieure d'optique and his student Anne Laure Courage, in 1997. Subsequently, after performing computerized analysis and microdensitometer studies, they reported finding additional inscriptions, among them INNECEM (a shortened form of Latin \"in necem ibis\"—\"you will go to death\"), NNAZAPE(N)NUS (Nazarene), IHSOY (Jesus) and IC (Iesus Chrestus). The uncertain letters IBE(R?) have been conjectured as \"Tiberius\". Linguist Mark Guscin disputed the reports of Marion and Courage. He stated that the inscriptions made little grammatical or historical sense and that they did not appear on the slides that Marion and Courage indicated.\n\nIn 2009, Barbara Frale, a paleographer in the Vatican Secret Archives, who had published two books on the Shroud of Turin reported further analysis of the text. In her books Frale had stated that the shroud had been kept by the Templars after 1204. In 2009 Frale stated that it is possible to read on the image the burial certificate of Jesus the Nazarene, or Jesus of Nazareth, imprinted in fragments of Greek, Hebrew and Latin writing.\n\nFrale stated the text on the Shroud reads: \"In the year 16 of the reign of the Emperor Tiberius Jesus the Nazarene, taken down in the early evening after having been condemned to death by a Roman judge because he was found guilty by a Hebrew authority, is hereby sent for burial with the obligation of being consigned to his family only after one full year.\" Since Tiberius became emperor after the death of Octavian Augustus in AD 14, the 16th year of his reign would be within the span of the years AD 30 to 31. Frale's methodology has been criticized, partly based on the objection that the writings are too faint to see. Dr Antonio Lombatti, an Italian historian, rejected the idea that the authorities would have bothered to tag the body of a crucified man. He stated that \"It's all the result of imagination and computer software.\"\n\nA study by Lorusso \"et al\". subjected two photographs of the shroud to digital image processing, one of them being a reproduction of the photographic negative taken by Giuseppe Enrie in 1931. They did not find any signs, symbols or writing on either image, and noted that these signs may be linked to protuberances in the yarn, as well possibly as to the alteration and influence of the texture of the Enrie photographic negative during its development in 1931.\n\nMany hypotheses have been formulated and tested to explain the image on the Shroud. According to pro-authenticity authors Baldacchini and Fanti, \"the body image of the Turin Shroud has not yet been explained by traditional science; so a great interest in a possible mechanism of image formation still exists\", a conclusion also supported by Philip Ball.\n\nThe technique used for producing the image is, according to Walter McCrone, described in a book about medieval painting published in 1847 by Charles Lock Eastlake (\"Methods and Materials of Painting of the Great Schools and Masters\"). Eastlake describes in the chapter \"Practice of Painting Generally During the XIVth Century\" a special technique of painting on linen using tempera paint, which produces images with unusual transparent features—which McCrone compares to the image on the shroud.\n\nPro-authenticity journals have declared this hypothesis to be unsound, stating that X-ray fluorescence examination, as well as infrared thermography, did not reveal any pigment. The non-paint origin has been further examined by Fourier transform of the image: common paintings show a directionality that is absent from the Turin Shroud.\n\nIn 2009, Luigi Garlaschelli, professor of organic chemistry at the University of Pavia, announced that he had made a full size reproduction of the Shroud of Turin using only medieval technologies. Garlaschelli placed a linen sheet over a volunteer and then rubbed it with an acidic pigment. The shroud was then aged in an oven before being washed to remove the pigment. He then added blood stains, scorches and water stains to replicate the original. But according to Giulio Fanti, professor of mechanical and thermic measurements at the University of Padua, \"the technique itself seems unable to produce an image having the most critical Turin Shroud image characteristics\".\n\nGarlaschelli's reproduction was featured in a 2010 National Geographic documentary. The technique used by Garlaschelli included the bas relief approach (described below) but only for the image of the face. The resultant image was visibly similar to the Turin Shroud, though lacking the uniformity and detail of the original.\n\nAccording to the art historian Nicholas Allen, the image on the shroud was formed by a photographic technique in the 13th century. Allen maintains that techniques already available before the 14th century—e.g., as described in the Book of Optics, which was at just that time translated from Arabic to Latin—were sufficient to produce primitive photographs, and that people familiar with these techniques would have been able to produce an image as found on the shroud. To demonstrate this, he successfully produced photographic images similar to the shroud using only techniques and materials available at the time the shroud was supposedly made. He described his results in his PhD thesis, in papers published in several science journals, and in a book. Silver bromide is believed by some to have been used for making the Shroud of Turin as it is widely used in photographic films.\n\nScientists Emily Craig and Randall Bresee have attempted to recreate the likenesses of the shroud through the dust-transfer technique, which could have been done by medieval arts. They first did a carbon-dust drawing of a Jesus-like face (using collagen dust) on a newsprint made from wood pulp (which is similar to 13th- and 14th-century paper). They next placed the drawing on a table and covered it with a piece of linen. They then pressed the linen against the newsprint by firmly rubbing with the flat side of a wooden spoon. By doing this they managed to create a reddish-brown image with a lifelike positive likeness of a person, a three-dimensional image and no sign of brush strokes. However, according to Fanti and Moroni, this does not reproduce many special features of the Shroud at microscopic level.\n\nAnother hypothesis suggests that the Shroud may have been formed using a bas-relief sculpture. Researcher Jacques di Costanzo, noting that the Shroud image seems to have a three-dimensional quality, suggested that perhaps the image was formed using a three-dimensional object, such as a sculpture. While wrapping a cloth around a life-sized statue would result in a distorted image, placing a cloth over a bas-relief would result in an image like the one seen on the shroud. To demonstrate the plausibility of his hypothesis, Costanzo constructed a bas-relief of a Jesus-like face and draped wet linen over the bas-relief. After the linen dried, he dabbed it with a mixture of ferric oxide and gelatine. The result was an image similar to that of the Shroud. The imprinted image turned out to be wash-resistant, impervious to temperatures of and was undamaged by exposure to a range of harsh chemicals, including bisulphite which, without the gelatine, would normally have degraded ferric oxide to the compound ferrous oxide. Similar results have been obtained by Nickell.\n\nInstead of painting, it has been suggested that the bas-relief could also be heated and used to scorch an image onto the cloth. However researcher Thibault Heimburger performed some experiments with the scorching of linen, and found that a scorch mark is only produced by direct contact with the hot object – thus producing an all-or-nothing discoloration with no graduation of color as is found in the shroud.\n\nAccording to Fanti and Moroni, after comparing the histograms of 256 different grey levels, it was found that the image obtained with a bas-relief has grey values included between 60 and 256 levels, but it is much contrasted with wide areas of white saturation (levels included between 245 and 256) and lacks of intermediate grey levels (levels included between 160 and 200). The face image on the Shroud instead has grey tonalities that vary in the same values field (between 60 and 256), but the white saturation is much less marked and the histogram is practically flat in correspondence of the intermediate grey levels (levels included between 160 and 200).\n\nThe Maillard reaction is a form of non-enzymatic browning involving an amino acid and a reducing sugar. The cellulose fibers of the shroud are coated with a thin carbohydrate layer of starch fractions, various sugars, and other impurities. In a paper entitled \"The Shroud of Turin: an amino-carbonyl reaction may explain the image formation,\" Raymond Rogers and Anna Arnoldi propose that amines from a recently deceased human body may have undergone Maillard reactions with this carbohydrate layer within a reasonable period of time, before liquid decomposition products stained or damaged the cloth. The gases produced by a dead body are extremely reactive chemically and within a few hours, in an environment such as a tomb, a body starts to produce heavier amines in its tissues such as putrescine and cadaverine. However the potential source for amines required for the reaction is a decomposing body, and no signs of decomposition have been found on the Shroud. Rogers also notes that their tests revealed that there were no proteins or bodily fluids on the image areas. Also, the image resolution and the uniform coloration of the linen resolution seem to be incompatible with a mechanism involving diffusion.\n\nAlan A. Mills argued that the image was formed by the chemical reaction auto-oxidation. He noted that the image corresponds to what would have been produced by a volatile chemical if the intensity of the color change were inversely proportional to the distance from the body of a loosely draped cloth.\n\nSince 1930 several researchers (J. Jackson, G. Fanti, T. Trenn, T. Phillips, J.-B. Rinaudo and others) endorsed the flash-like irradiation hypothesis. It was suggested that the relatively high definition of the image details can be obtained through the energy source (specifically, protonic) acting from inside. The Russian researcher Alexander Belyakov proposed an intense, but short flashlight source, which lasted some hundredths of a second. Some other authors suggest the X-radiation or a burst of directional ultraviolet radiation may have played a role in the formation of the Shroud image. From the image characteristics, several researchers have theorized that the radiant source was prevalently vertical. These theories do not include the scientific discussion of a method by which the energy could have been produced.\n\nDuring restoration in 2002, the back of the cloth was photographed and scanned for the first time. Giulio Fanti, a scientist at the University of Padua, wrote an article on this subject with colleagues in 2005 that envisages electrostatic corona discharge as the probable mechanism to produce the images of the body in the Shroud. Congruent with that mechanism, they also describe an image on the reverse side of the fabric, much fainter than that on the front view of the body, consisting primarily of the face and perhaps hands. As with the front picture, it is entirely superficial, with coloration limited to the carbohydrate layer. The images correspond to, and are in registration with, those on the other side of the cloth. No image is detectable in the reverse side of the dorsal view of the body.\n\nRaymond Rogers criticized the theory, saying: \"It is clear that a corona discharge (plasma) in air will cause easily observable changes in a linen sample. No such effects can be observed in image fibers from the Shroud of Turin. Corona discharges and/or plasmas made no contribution to image formation.\"\n\nIn December 2011, Fanti published a critical compendium of the major hypotheses regarding the formation of the body image on the shroud. He stated that \"none of them can completely explain the mysterious image\". Fanti then considered corona discharge as the most probable hypothesis regarding the formation of the body image. He stated that it would be impossible to reproduce all the characteristics of the image in a laboratory because the energy source required would be too high. Fanti has restated the radiation theories in a 2013 book.\n\nIn December 2011 scientists at Italy's National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable Development ENEA deduced from the STURP results that the color of the Shroud image is the result of an accelerated aging process of the linen, similar to the yellowing of the paper of ancient books. They demonstrated that the photochemical reactions caused by exposing linen to ultraviolet light could reproduce the main characteristics of the Shroud image, such as the shallowness of the coloration and the gradient of the color, which are not reproducible by other means. When subsequently illuminated with a UV lamp, the irradiated linen fabrics behaved like the linen of the Shroud. They also determined that UV radiation changes the crystalline structure of cellulose in a similar manner as aging and long-duration background radiation.\n\nPaolo Di Lazzaro, the lead researcher, indicated in an e-mail interview that \"... it appears unlikely a forger may have done this image with technologies available in the Middle Ages or earlier\", but their study does not mean the Shroud image was created by the flash of a miraculous resurrection, contrary to how the story was presented in the media, especially on the Web. Professional skeptic Joe Nickell states that the latest findings are nothing new despite being \"dressed up in high-tech tests\", and that they don't prove much of anything.\n\nIn November 2011, F. Curciarello \"et al.\" published a paper that analyzed the abrupt changes in the yellowed fibril density values on the Shroud image. They concluded that the rapid changes in the body image intensity are not anomalies in the manufacturing process of the linen but that they can be explained with the presence of aromas or burial ointments. However, their work leaves the existence of an energy source for the image an open question.\n\nA 2013 study published in a theological journal followed a \"Minimal Facts approach\" to determine which hypothesis relating to the image formation process \"is the most likely\". The study concluded \"that the probability of the Shroud of Turin being the real shroud of Jesus of Nazareth is very high\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58555904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58555904", "title": "Sugusaka Site", "text": "Sugusaka Site\n\nThe site is location on the right bank of the Jinzu River in what is now part of the Sarukurayama ski resort on the outskirts of the city of Toyama. In this vicinity there are a number of archaeological sites from the Japanese Palaeolithic to the Jōmon era, including the Nozawa site, Yagiyama Ono site, Naosaka Ⅱ site, Naosaka Ⅲ site, Naosaka IV site, indicating that this area has been densely populated since the earliest times. The Sugusaka site was discovered in 1971 during construction work for the establishment of a ranch, when a stone furnace dating from the middle of the Jōmon period was discovered. In response, in 1972 the Toyama Board of Education conducted excavation surveys of the area.\n\nFrom the Japanese Paleolithic period, some 1200 stone blades were found. These blades were dated to about 25,000 to 30,000 years ago, and are thus the oldest thus found in the Hokuriku region. Apart from this, local polished stone axes and cusp heads of the age following this have been excavated. The site also contained thousands of fist-sized stones which had burn marks. These stones were used for cooking purposes.\n\nEarly examples of pottery were also found, including pottery with patterns created by a rolling die, and embossed pottery. These pottery shards were from the Hida, Shinano, Kinki and Tōkai regions indicating long range trade routes from a very early period in Japanese history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3350024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3350024", "title": "Tephrochronology", "text": "Tephrochronology\n\nTephrochronology is a geochronological technique that uses discrete layers of tephra—volcanic ash from a single eruption—to create a chronological framework in which paleoenvironmental or archaeological records can be placed. Such an established event provides a \"tephra horizon\". The premise of the technique is that each volcanic event produces ash with a unique chemical \"fingerprint\" that allows the deposit to be identified across the area affected by fallout. Thus, once the volcanic event has been independently dated, the tephra horizon will act as time marker.\n\nThe main advantages of the technique are that the volcanic ash layers can be relatively easily identified in many sediments and that the tephra layers are deposited relatively instantaneously over a wide spatial area. This means they provide accurate temporal marker layers which can be used to verify or corroborate other dating techniques, linking sequences widely separated by location into a unified chronology that correlates climatic sequences and events.\n\nTephrochronology requires accurate geochemical fingerprinting (usually via an electron microprobe). An important recent advance is the use of LA-ICP-MS (i.e. laser ablation ICP-MS) to measure trace-element abundances in individual tephra shards. One problem in tephrochronology is that tephra chemistry can become altered over time, at least for basaltic tephras.\n\nEarly tephra horizons were identified with the Saksunarvatn tephra (Icelandic origin, cal. ka BP), forming a horizon in the late Pre-Boreal of Northern Europe, the Vedde ash (also Icelandic in origin, c. 12.0 cal. ka BP) and the Laacher See tephra (in the Eifel volcanic field, c. 12.9 cal. ka BP). Major volcanoes which have been used in tephrochronological studies include Vesuvius, Hekla and Santorini. Minor volcanic events may also leave their fingerprint in the geological record: Hayes Volcano is responsible for a series of six major tephra layers in the Cook Inlet region of Alaska. Tephra horizons provide a synchronous check against which to correlate the palaeoclimatic reconstructions that are obtained from terrestrial records, like fossil pollen studies (palynology), from varves in lake sediments or from marine deposits and ice-core records, and to extend the limits of carbon-14 dating.\n\nA pioneer in the use of tephra layers as marker horizons to establish chronology was Sigurdur Thorarinsson, who began by studying the layers he found in his native Iceland. Since the late 1990s, techniques developed by Chris S. M. Turney (QUB, Belfast; now University of Exeter) and others for extracting tephra horizons invisible to the naked eye (\"cryptotephra\") have revolutionised the application of tephrochronology. This technique relies upon the difference between the specific gravity of the microtephra shards and the host sediment matrix. It has led to the first discovery of the Vedde ash on the mainland of Britain, in Sweden, in the Netherlands, in the Swiss Lake Soppensee and in two sites on the Karelian Isthmus of Baltic Russia.\nIt has also revealed previously undetected ash layers, such as the Borrobol Tephra first discovered in northern Scotland, dated to c. 14.4 cal. ka BP, the microtephra horizons of equivalent geochemistry from southern Sweden, dated at 13,900 Cariaco varve yrs BP and from northwest Scotland, dated at 13.6 cal. ka BP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9883465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9883465", "title": "Terry Brotherstone", "text": "Terry Brotherstone\n\nTerry Brotherstone is a historian based in Scotland. He is a Senior Lecturer at the University of Aberdeen. The current Staff Directory page of the University website gives his designation as \"Honorary Research Fellow, DHP School Administration\". The \"DHP\" is the School of Divinity, History and Philosophy at the University.\n\n"}
{"id": "14190685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14190685", "title": "Timeline of Spanish history", "text": "Timeline of Spanish history\n\nThis is a timeline of Spanish history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Spain and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Spain.\n"}
{"id": "329680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329680", "title": "Urasoe, Okinawa", "text": "Urasoe, Okinawa\n\nAs of November 2012, the city has an estimated population of 113,718 and a population density of 5,956.9 persons per km. The total area is 19.09 km.\n\nUnited States Marine Corps base Camp Kinser is located on the city's coast.\n\nThe name \"Urasoe\" is made up of two kanji characters. The first, , means \"a coastal area\", and the second, , means \"ruling\" or \"uniting\". The name is a reference to \"ruling over many areas\".\n\nUrasoe sits to the south of Okinawa Island. Urasoe is rugged and hilly to the east, and the city slopes gently to the East China Sea in the west. Urasoe, while formerly agricultural, has become heavily urbanized due to its proximity to the prefectural capital of Naha.\n\n\nThe city is served by Naha Airport and the Okinawa Expressway. There are plans for the Yui Rail to be extended to Urasoe.\n\nUrasoe was the original capital of the Okinawan kingdom of Chūzan for several centuries until it was supplanted by Shuri in the late 14th or early 15th century. Shunten (1166 – 1237), the first known king of the Chuzan Kingdom, located in the central region of the island of Okinawa, ruled from Urasoe, as did his son and grandson. For much of the 14th century, Urasoe Castle was the largest on the island of Okinawa. The castle now contains the remains of several kings of the Ryukyu Kingdom.\n\nUrasoe was completely razed during the Battle of Okinawa in 1945 at the end of World War II. 45% of the population, 4,117 residents, died during the battle. The village office of Urasoe was re-established in 1946 to conduct basic administrative functions, settle refugees returning to the village, and restore agricultural land. The village saw a significant increase in U.S. military presence in 1950 in the western coast of the village, which eventually became Camp Kinser. The population of Urasoe rapidly from 1956, and the city became a bedroom community of Naha in this period. Urasoe was elevated to city status on July 1, 1970.\n\nThe beer company Orion Breweries has its headquarters in Urasoe.\n\nUrasoe is the hometown of Japanese actress, musician and former idol Yukie Nakama.\n\n"}
{"id": "27663140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27663140", "title": "Uri Rosenthal", "text": "Uri Rosenthal\n\nUriël \"Uri\" Rosenthal (born 19 July 1945) is a retired Dutch politician of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD).\n\nRosenthal a political scientist by occupation, was elected as a Member of the Senate on 8 June 1999 after the Senate election of 1999. On 5 May 2005 he was selected as the parliamentary leader of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy in the Senate. Following the election of 2010 Rosenthal was asked to become Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Cabinet Rutte–Verhagen Rosenthal accepted and resigned as parliamentary leader in the Senate and a Member of the Senate the same day he took office as the new Minister of Foreign Affairs on 14 October 2010 serving until 5 November 2012.\n\nA professor of political science and public administration by occupation, he taught from 1980 until 2010 at the Erasmus University Rotterdam and Leiden University.\n\nUriël Rosenthal was born on 19 July 1945 in Montreux, Switzerland to Jewish parents who during World War II fled the Netherlands from the German occupation of the Netherlands. The returned to the Netherlands shortly after the war ended. After attending school in The Hague he went to study political science at the University of Amsterdam where he obtained a Bachelor of Social Science and a Master of Social Science in 1970. In 1978 he received his Doctor of Philosophy in social sciences at the Erasmus University Rotterdam. In 1980 he became a professor of political science and public administration at the Erasmus University Rotterdam. From 1987 until 2011 he was a professor of public administration at the Leiden University.\n\nHe was elected Member of the Senate as a member of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and took office on 8 June 1999. He became the Parliamentary leader in the Senate on 5 May 2005. On 12 June 2010 Queen Beatrix nominated Rosenthal as first informateur in the 2010 Dutch cabinet formation. On 26 June the Queen replaced Rosenthal with Herman Tjeenk Willink, the Vice President of the Council of State as the new informateur. On 5 July he became informateur a second time together with Jacques Wallage of the Labour Party. But on 21 July the Queen again replaced him and Wallage with Minister of State and former Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers.\n\nOn 28 September the negotiations were finished. A coalition agreement was reached between People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and Christian Democratic Appeal to form a minority coalition, supported by the Party for Freedom to obtain a majority. Formateur Mark Rutte asked Rosenthal as the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the new cabinet. Because a member of the States-General of the Netherlands can not serve in the cabinet he resigned as a Member of the Senate and Parliamentary leader on 14 October 2010, the same day he took office as the new Minister of Foreign Affairs.\n\nAs of 1 March 2013, Rosenthal is chairman of the Policy Advisory Council on Science and Technology (AWT).\n\nHe has been nominated by the Dutch Government to serve as the Special Envoy for the fourth International Cyberspace Conference to be held in 2015.\n\nHe has been married since 4 January 1973. He lives in Rotterdam with his wife, Dinah, and their two children. Dinah Rosenthal is an Israeli native, originally from Haifa. Two of Rosenthal's sisters live in Israel.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "52867957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52867957", "title": "W. F. Bynum", "text": "W. F. Bynum\n\nWilliam F. Bynum is a British historian of medicine. For most of his career, he has worked at the Wellcome Trust Centre for the History of Medicine, University College London. He has frequently collaborated with Roy Porter, another famous British historian. He teaches history of medicine at UCL London.\n\nSome of his books are:\n"}
