{"id": "1274833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274833", "title": "Adverse drug reaction", "text": "Adverse drug reaction\n\nAn adverse drug reaction (ADR) is an injury caused by taking a medication. ADRs may occur following a single dose or prolonged administration of a drug or result from the combination of two or more drugs. The meaning of this expression differs from the meaning of \"side effect\", as this last expression might also imply that the effects can be beneficial. The study of ADRs is the concern of the field known as \"pharmacovigilance\". An adverse drug event (ADE) refers to any injury occurring at the time a drug is used, whether or not it is identified as a cause of the injury. An ADR is a special type of ADE in which a causative relationship can be shown.\nADRs may be classified by e.g. cause and severity.\n\n\nTypes A and B were proposed in the 1970s, and the other types were proposed subsequently when the first two proved insufficient to classify ADRs.\n\nThe U.S Food and Drug Administration defines a serious adverse event as one when the patient outcome is one of the following:\n\nSeverity is a point on an arbitrary scale of intensity of the adverse event in question. The terms \"severe\" and \"serious\" when applied to adverse events are technically very different. They are easily confused but can not be used interchangeably, requiring care in usage.\n\nA headache is severe, if it causes intense pain. There are scales like \"visual analog scale\" that help clinicians assess the severity. On the other hand, a headache is not usually serious (but may be in case of subarachnoid haemorrhage, subdural bleed, even a migraine may temporally fit criteria), unless it also satisfies the criteria for seriousness listed above.\n\nAdverse effects may be local, i.e. limited to a certain location, or systemic, where a medication has caused adverse effects throughout the systemic circulation.\n\nFor instance, some ocular antihypertensives cause systemic effects, although they are administered locally as eye drops, since a fraction escapes to the systemic circulation.\n\nAs research better explains the biochemistry of drug use, fewer ADRs are Type B and more are Type A. Common mechanisms are:\n\nVarious diseases, especially those that cause renal or hepatic insufficiency, may alter drug metabolism. Resources are available that report changes in a drug's metabolism due to disease states.\n\nAbnormal drug metabolism may be due to inherited factors of either Phase I oxidation or Phase II conjugation. Pharmacogenomics is the study of the inherited basis for abnormal drug reactions.\n\nInheriting abnormal alleles of cytochrome P450 can alter drug metabolism. Tables are available to check for drug interactions due to P450 interactions.\n\nInheriting abnormal butyrylcholinesterase (pseudocholinesterase) may affect metabolism of drugs such as succinylcholine\n\nInheriting abnormal \"N\"-acetyltransferase which conjugated some drugs to facilitate excretion may affect the metabolism of drugs such as isoniazid, hydralazine, and procainamide.\n\nInheriting abnormal thiopurine \"S\"-methyltransferase may affect the metabolism of the thiopurine drugs mercaptopurine and azathioprine.\n\nThe risk of drug interactions is increased with polypharmacy.\n\nThese interactions are usually transient and mild until a new steady state is achieved. These are mainly for drugs without much first-pass liver metabolism. The principal plasma proteins for drug binding are:\nSome drug interactions with warfarin are due to changes in protein binding.\n\nPatients have abnormal metabolism by cytochrome P450 due to either inheriting abnormal alleles or due to drug interactions. Tables are available to check for drug interactions due to P450 interactions.\n\nAn example of synergism is two drugs that both prolong the QT interval.\n\nCausality assessment is used to determine the likelihood that a drug caused a suspected ADR. There are a number of different methods used to judge causation, including the Naranjo algorithm, the Venulet algorithm and the WHO causality term assessment criteria. Each have pros and cons associated with their use and most require some level of expert judgement to apply.\nAn ADR should not be labeled as 'certain' unless the ADR abates with a challenge-dechallenge-rechallenge protocol (stopping and starting the agent in question). The chronology of the onset of the suspected ADR is important, as another substance or factor may be implicated as a cause; co-prescribed medications and underlying psychiatric conditions may be factors in the ADR.\n\nAssigning causality to a specific agent often proves difficult, unless the event is found during a clinical study or large databases are used. Both methods have difficulties and can be fraught with error. Even in clinical studies some ADRs may be missed as large numbers of test individuals are required to find that adverse drug reaction. Psychiatric ADRs are often missed as they are grouped together in the questionnaires used to assess the population.\n\nMany countries have official bodies that monitor drug safety and reactions. On an international level, the WHO runs the Uppsala Monitoring Centre, and the European Union runs the European Medicines Agency (EMEA). In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is responsible for monitoring post-marketing studies.\nIn Canada, the Marketed Health Products Directorate of Health Canada is responsible for the surveillance of marketed health products. In Australia, the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) conducts postmarket monitoring of therapeutic products. In the UK the Yellow Card Scheme was established in 1963.\n\nA study by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) found that in 2011, sedatives and hypnotics were a leading source for adverse drug events seen in the hospital setting. Approximately 2.8% of all ADEs present on admission and 4.4% of ADEs that originated during a hospital stay were caused by a sedative or hypnotic drug. A second study by AHRQ found that in 2011, the most common specifically identified causes of adverse drug events that originated during hospital stays in the U.S. were steroids, antibiotics, opiates/narcotics, and anticoagulants. Patients treated in urban teaching hospitals had higher rates of ADEs involving antibiotics and opiates/narcotics compared to those treated in urban nonteaching hospitals. Those treated in private, nonprofit hospitals had higher rates of most ADE causes compared to patients treated in public or private, for-profit hospitals.\n\nIn the U.S., females had a higher rate of ADEs involving opiates and narcotics than males in 2011, while male patients had a higher rate of anticoagulant ADEs. Nearly 8 in 1,000 adults aged 65 years or older experienced one of the four most common ADEs (steroids, antibiotics, opiates/narcotics, and anticoagulants) during hospitalization. A study showed that 48% of patients had an adverse drug reaction to at least one drug, and pharmacist involvement helps to pick up adverse drug reactions.\n\nIn 2012 McKinsey &Co. concluded that the cost of the 35 million preventable adverse drug events would be as high as US$115 billion.\n\n"}
{"id": "46686897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46686897", "title": "Akorn", "text": "Akorn\n\nAkorn Inc. is an American generic pharmaceuticals manufacturer based in Lake Forest, Illinois. It is a component of the NASDAQ Biotechnology Index.\n\nJohn Kapoor is not the founder but is a major shareholder since the 1990s.\n\nAkorn acquired rival Hi-Tech Pharmacal in 2013.\n\nIn June 2015, it was reported that a hacker was trying to sell an Akorn customer database of more than 50,000 records. Akorn commented that \"Although much of the information acquired is publicly available, we are in the process of notifying our valued customers about this incident\".\n\nIn April 2017, Akorn agreed to be acquired by Fresenius for $4.3 billion. These plans were abandoned by Fresenius after Akorn couldn′t meet basic requirements for an acquisition. In October 2018, Akorn received Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) approval from Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for Bimatoprost Ophthalmic Solution, 0.03%.\n"}
{"id": "38908424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38908424", "title": "Alberto and Elena Cortina Foundation", "text": "Alberto and Elena Cortina Foundation\n\nAlberto and Elena Cortina Foundation (\"Fundación Alberto y Elena Cortina\" in Spanish) is a nonprofit organization, of Spanish nationality, founded by Alberto Cortina and his wife Elena Cué, on July 8, 2011.\n\nThe foundation goal is to promote, create, develop and aid individuals and projects with all kinds of charity and education aims, and with a special focus on children. \n100% of the funds used by the Foundation for the development, management and maintenance of projects, come exclusivelly from contributions from the two founding partners, Mr. Alberto Cortina and Mrs. Elena Cue Cortina.\n\nIn Haiti, the foundation provided assistance to families affected by the earthquake of 2010, in the refugee camp of Tabarre ( in the outskirts of Puerto Príncipe), The foundation helped more than 1200 people, 400 of whom were children.\n\nThe Foundation helped by purchasing and distributing food in cooperation with \"Mensajeros de la Paz\", in child specific nutrition programs, in school support, and in the installation of basic sanitary-higienic facilities.\n\nIn Spain the Foundation focuses its efforts on the development of programs to lighten the precarious situation facing so many Spanish families due to the crisis, and in this area, the Foundation carries out the following projects:\n\nThe program offers them, free housing, education and counseling. In 2013 Community of Madrid signs a cooperation agreement with Alberto and Elena Cortina Foundation by which they refer women at risk of social exclusion to the foundation's main care Facility.\n\n"}
{"id": "20004134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20004134", "title": "American Association of Nurse Practitioners", "text": "American Association of Nurse Practitioners\n\nThe American Association of Nurse Practitioners® (AANP) is an American organization formed in 2013 by a merger between the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners (founded in 1985) and the American College of Nurse Practitioners (founded in 1995) to provide nurse practitioners with a unified way to network and advocate their issues. The American Academy of Nurse Practitioners was the first organization created for nurse practitioners of all specialties in the United States, and AANP remains the largest national membership organization for nurse practitioners of all specialties. AANP represents the interests of the more than 248,000 nurse practitioners licensed to practice in the U.S. and continually advocates at local, state, and federal levels for the recognition of nurse practitioners as providers of high-quality, cost-effective, and personalized health care.\n\nThe association has two official journals: the Journal of the American Association of Nurse Practitioners and The Journal for Nurse Practitioners.\n\n"}
{"id": "55494541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55494541", "title": "Assistance for airline passengers with disabilities", "text": "Assistance for airline passengers with disabilities\n\nThere are no worldwide uniform standards regulating the provision of assistance for airline passengers with disabilities. American regulations place the responsibility on the airlines, the European Union's rules make the airport responsible for providing the assistance, whereas in South America there are no regulations at all. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is concerned about the difficulties caused by inconsistent regulations.\n\nAccording to EU regulation 1107/2006, persons with reduced mobility have the right to assistance during airline travel. The assistance is mandated for flights on any airline departing from an airport in the EU or flights to an airport in the EU on an aircraft registered in any EU country.\n\nThe Air Carrier Access Act of 1986 prohibits commercial airlines from discriminating against passengers with disabilities. The act was passed by the U.S. Congress in direct response to a narrow interpretation of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 by the U.S. Supreme Court in U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) v. Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA). In PVA, the Supreme Court held that private, commercial air carriers are not liable under Section 504 because they are not \"direct recipients\" of federal funding to airports.\n\nSpecific IATA codes are used on the flight ticket to indicate the kind of assistance the person needs, such as wheelchair assistance inside the terminal, between the terminal and the plane, climbing up/down to/from the plane, and moving within the plane.\n"}
{"id": "52235432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52235432", "title": "Association of Certifying Factory Surgeons", "text": "Association of Certifying Factory Surgeons\n\nThe Association of Certifying Factory Surgeons was founded in 1888 and was based in Manchester, with branches in other cities.\n\nCertifying surgeons were first appointed under the Factory Act of 1833 which required that a child between the ages of nine and eleven required a certificate from a doctor stating that they were eligible to work. They were required to report on certain accidents and to certify that children appeared to be of a specified age and with normal bodily strength appropriate to that age. In 1874 the association reported that between 20% and 50% of those presented were rejected as either under age or unfit.\n\nThe archives of the association from 1892 to 1969 are held in The University of Manchester Library.\n\nThe 1911 Annual General Meeting was held in the Trocadero Restaurant and reported extensively in the British Medical Journal. In 1920 the BMJ reported on the unsuccessful campaign against the reduction of fees for factory surgeons associated with the wartime economies.\n"}
{"id": "24747438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24747438", "title": "Avoidance coping", "text": "Avoidance coping\n\nIn psychology, avoidance/avoidant coping or escape coping is a maladaptive coping mechanism characterized by the effort to avoid dealing with a stressor. \"Coping\" refers to behaviors that attempt to protect oneself from psychological damage. Alternatives to avoidance coping include modifying or eliminating the conditions that gave rise to the problem and changing the perception of an experience in a way that neutralizes the problem.\n\nAvoidance coping, including social withdrawal, is an aspect of avoidant personality disorder, but not everyone who displays such behaviors meets the definition of having a personality disorder.\n\nPost-traumatic stress disorder may include avoidance coping behavior: PTSD sufferers may draw into themselves, avoiding the trauma and partaking in cognitive or behavioral avoidance coping.\n\nCognitive behavioral and psychoanalytic therapy are used to help those coping by avoidance to acknowledge, comprehend, and express their emotions. Acceptance and commitment therapy, a behavioral therapy that focuses on breaking down avoidance coping and showing it to be an unhealthy method for dealing with traumatic experiences, is also sometimes used.\n\nBoth active-cognitive and active-behavioral coping are used as replacement techniques for avoidance coping. Active-cognitive coping includes changing one's attitude towards a stressful event and looking for any positive impacts. Active-behavioral coping refers taking positive actions after finding out more about the situation.\n\nLiterature on coping often classifies coping strategies into two broad categories: approach/active coping and avoidance/passive coping. Approach coping includes behaviors that attempt to reduce stress by alleviating the problem directly, and avoidance coping includes behaviors that reduce stress by distancing oneself from the problem. Traditionally, approach coping has been seen as the healthiest and most beneficial way to reduce stress, while avoidance coping has been associated with negative personality traits, potentially harmful activities, and generally poorer outcomes. However, research has shown that some types of avoidance coping have beneficial outcomes. A study by Long and Haney found that both jogging and relaxation techniques were equally successful at reducing anxiety and increasing feelings of self-efficacy. Therefore, it seems that positive forms of passive coping such as exercise and meditation have qualitatively different outcomes from negative forms such as binge eating and drug use. These positive forms of passive coping may be particularly beneficial for alleviating stress when the individual does not currently have the resources to eliminate the problem directly, indicating the advantage of flexibility when engaging in coping behaviors.\n\n"}
{"id": "22531588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22531588", "title": "Bay dog", "text": "Bay dog\n\nA bay dog (or bailer, in Australian English) is a dog that is specially trained to find, chase, and then bay, or howl at from a safe distance from large animals during a hunt, such as during a wild boar hunt. \n\nBay dogs chase and circle the boar, keeping it cornered in one place, while barking intensely. This behavior is known as \"baying\" or keeping the boar \"at bay\". In Australia the terms \"bay-dogs\" and \"baying\" are not in common usage. In Australia these are colloquially referred to as \"bailers\" and \"bailing\", respectively.\n\nThe vocalizing of the dogs at bay signals the modern firearms hunter to close the distance with the pack and once caught up, to dispatch the boar with a well-placed gunshot. For the primitive weapons hunter the bay signals the hunters to release the \"catch dogs, \" that are used to then catch and hold the boar, allowing hunters to hog-tie the boar for relocation or kill the boar with a knife, spear or similar instrument. The dogs used for baying are typically curs, hounds, and various purpose-bred crosses. Some crossing has occurred between \"bay & catch\" dogs, due to being raised together for generations, along with purpose-breeding. So, some \"hog dogs\" have shared traits and abilities (i.e., bay dogs capable of holding, or, catch dogs hunting by scent). But they are usually kept separate (no crossing), and used according to their own unique abilities.\n\nThis technique is also the traditional way to hunt moose in the northern Scandinavian forests using the native spitzer hounds where it allows the hunter to stealthily move close to the animal in the dense forests, only taking a step when the dog barks to cover any sound, sometimes having to move as close as 10 to 30 meters to get a shot through the brush. Very often this is used in conjuncture with a team of hunters using fixed positions to take moose moving away from the baying dog.\n\nIn southern Africa:\n\nIn Scandinavia:\n\n\nIn the United States:\n\n"}
{"id": "22545577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22545577", "title": "Brian Weiss", "text": "Brian Weiss\n\nBrian Leslie Weiss (born November 6, 1944) is an American psychiatrist, hypnotherapist, and author who specializes in so-called \"past life regression\", a field identified as pseudoscience. His research includes purported reincarnation, past life regression, future life progression, and survival of the human soul after death.\n\nWeiss studied at Columbia University, and later graduated from the Yale University School of Medicine in 1970, completing an internship in internal medicine at the New York University Medical Center then returning to Yale for a two-year residency in psychiatry. He went on to become Head of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai Medical Center, Miami.\n\nAccording to Weiss, in 1980 one of his patients, \"Catherine\", began discussing past-life experiences under hypnosis. Weiss did not believe in reincarnation at the time but, after confirming elements of Catherine's stories through public records, came to be convinced of the survival of an element of the human personality after death. Weiss claims he has regressed more than 4,000 patients since 1980.\n\nWeiss advocates hypnotic regression as therapy, claiming that many phobias and ailments are rooted in past-life experiences whose acknowledgment by the patient can have a curative effect. Weiss also writes about messages received from the \"Masters\", or \"super-evolved, nonphysical souls\", he claims to have communicated with through his subjects. Weiss holds workshops and seminars across the United States that explain and teach self-regression mediations techniques. This includes the Hay House I Can Do It one day workshops and the intense experiential workshops at the Omega Institute for Holistic Studies in NY.\n\nWeiss lives with his wife Carole in Miami, Florida, where he writes and conducts public seminars and workshops on the subject of reincarnation. His daughter Amy E. Weiss is the co-author of his 2012 book \"Miracles Happen: The Transformational Healing Power of Past-Life Memories\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10410811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10410811", "title": "Cadbury World", "text": "Cadbury World\n\nCadbury World is a visitor attraction, featuring a self-guided exhibition tour, created and run by the Cadbury chocolate company.\n\nTwo locations exist: Birmingham, United Kingdom and Dunedin, New Zealand.\n\nCadbury World was opened on 14 August 1990 by Morgan Anderson on Cadbury's Bournville manufacturing site, and has expanded and developed its content through 'continuous improvement'.\n\nCadbury World has gone on to become one of Birmingham's largest leisure attractions - welcoming over 500,000 visitors each year, especially children and delivering a respected education programme (linking back directly to the educational advancements and interests of the company's original founding fathers).\n\nWhilst not a factory tour, Cadbury World offers its visitors the opportunity to explore and discover chocolate's history, and to learn about the origins and story of the Cadbury business, which is part of Mondelez, the world's second largest confectionery manufacturer.\n\nCadbury World currently features 14 zones which tell the story of chocolate and the Cadbury business through various static sets, animatronics, video presentations, multi-sensory cinema, interactive displays and activities, and staff demonstrations.\n\nThese zones also include \"The Bournville Experience\" (Opened in 2007 replacing the Cadbury Collection Museum), which explains the background to the development of the site on which it is located and \"4D Chocolate Adventure\", constructed in 2014 and replacing \"Essence\" which in turn replaced \"Cadburyland\" before it, and which incorporates a 3D cinema.\n\nIn July 2003 another Cadbury World was opened in Dunedin, New Zealand. It is located in the Cadbury Factory site at 280 Cumberland St, close to the city centre near the Octagon. This is one of the largest factories in Dunedin that also offers tours and has become very popular with tourists visiting Dunedin. In May 2009 renovations were carried out inside the Cadbury World Visitors' Centre. The attractions which had existed since the opening were taken out, and new areas were added, including an Aztec-themed room and Old England room. Unlike the Cadbury World in Birmingham, it offers guided tours around the manufacturing area of the factory.\n\nOn 16 February 2017, Amanda Banfield, Mondelez's area vice-president for Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, confirmed that Cadbury World Dunedin would remain open despite the company's decision to close the Dunedin factory by March 2018. She also confirmed that Mondelez was planning to redevelop the Cadbury World Dunedin site. \n\nIn April 2018 Mondelez received permission to move Cadbury World to a separate building close to the factory site in Castle Street in central Dunedin, which would allow for a major expansion of Cadbury World. The new premises, which would include a cafe, retail area, an outdoor playground, and interactive activities, is due to be completed by late 2018, and would be open every day of the year. Expectation is for annual visitor numbers to increase as a result from around 120,000 per year to around 200,000 per year.\n\nOn 4 May 2018, it was reported that Cadbury World would be closing down to make way for a new NZ$1.4 billion hospital to replace the existing Dunedin Public Hospital. Mondelez had previously announced last year that while most of the Cumberland Street site would be sold, it would retain the old factory for a redeveloped Cadbudry World. Mondelez vice-president Banfield confirmed that the former Cadbury site had been sold to the Ministry of Heath for an undisclosed amount. It was reported that the closure of Cadbury World would lead to the loss of 39 jobs.\nThe Dunedin Cadbury World offers three different tours: the Factory Tour, the Shortened Tour, and the Centre Tour. The Factory Tour takes approximately 75 minutes, and incorporates a ten-minute self-guided tour around the Visitors' Centre before a fully guided tour through several areas of the operational factory. Chocolate samples—including fresh liquid chocolate—are given along the way, and the tour culminates in a five-story decommissioned crumb storage silo, inside of which currently is the world's largest chocolate waterfall. The Factory Tour only operates on weekdays; the factory does not work on the weekends. As a result, Shortened Tours are offered on Saturdays and Sundays. These tours do not venture into the factory; instead a DVD is played in which shows weekday operation. The final tour option, the Centre Tour, is purely self-guided around the Visitors' Centre. All tours end up in the Cadbury World retail outlet, which has chocolate at discounted prices compared to supermarkets in Dunedin, and unique, novelty souvenirs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7030030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7030030", "title": "Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants", "text": "Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants\n\nCentral Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) is a research institute of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) with its headquarter in Lucknow. It is engaged in the field of science and business of medicinal and aromatic plants. CIMAP has four research centers situated in Bangalore, Hyderabad, Pantnagar and Purara (near Bageshwar, Uttarakhand).\n\n"}
{"id": "4857593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4857593", "title": "Clinical research", "text": "Clinical research\n\nClinical research is a branch of healthcare science that determines the safety and effectiveness (efficacy) of medications, devices, diagnostic products and treatment regimens intended for human use. These may be used for prevention, treatment, diagnosis or for relieving symptoms of a disease. Clinical research is different from clinical practice. In clinical practice established treatments are used, while in clinical research evidence is collected to establish a treatment.\n\nThe term \"clinical research\" refers to the entire bibliography of a drug/device/biologic, in fact any test article from its inception in the lab to its introduction to the consumer market and beyond. Once the promising candidate or the molecule is identified in the lab, it is subjected to pre-clinical studies or animal studies where different aspects of the test article (including its safety toxicity if applicable and efficacy, if possible at this early stage) are studied.\n\nIn the United States, when a test article is unapproved or not yet cleared by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), or when an approved or cleared test article is used in a way that may significantly increase the risks (or decreases the acceptability of the risks), the data obtained from the pre-clinical studies or other supporting evidence, case studies of off label use, etc. are submitted in support of an Investigational New Drug (IND) application to the FDA for review prior to conducting studies that involve even one human and a test article if the results are intended to be submitted to or held for inspection by the FDA at any time in the future (in the case of an already approved test article, if intended to submit or hold for inspection by the FDA in support of a change in labeling or advertising). Where devices are concerned the submission to the FDA would be for an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application if the device is a significant risk device or is not in some way exempt from prior submission to the FDA. In addition, clinical research may require Institutional Review Board (IRB) or Research Ethics Board (REB) and possibly other institutional committee reviews, Privacy Board, Conflict of Interest Committee, Radiation Safety Committee, Radioactive Drug Research Committee, etc. approval whether or not the research requires prior submission to the FDA. Clinical research review criteria will depend on which federal regulations the research is subject to (e.g., (Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) if federally funded, FDA as already discussed) and will depend on which regulations the institutions subscribe to, in addition to any more stringent criteria added by the institution possibly in response to state or local laws/policies or accreditation entity recommendations. This additional layer of review (IRB/REB in particular) is critical to the protection of human subjects especially when you consider that often research subject to the FDA regulation for prior submission is allowed to proceed, by those same FDA regulations, 30 days after submission to the FDA unless specifically notified by the FDA not to initiate the study.\n\nClinical research is often conducted at academic medical centers and affiliated research study sites. These centers and sites provide the prestige of the academic institution as well as access to larger metropolitan areas, providing a larger pool of medical participants. These academic medical centers often have their internal Institutional Review Boards that oversee the ethical conduct of medical research.\n\nThe clinical research ecosystem involves a complex network of sites, pharmaceutical companies and academic research institutions. This has led to a growing field of technologies used for managing the data and operational factors of clinical research. Clinical research management is often aided by eClinical systems to help automate the management and conducting of clinical trials.\n\nIn the European Union, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) acts in a similar fashion for studies conducted in their region. These human studies are conducted in four phases in research subjects that give consent to participate in the clinical trials.\n\nClinical trials involving new drugs are commonly classified into four phases. Each phase of the drug approval process is treated as a separate clinical trial. The drug-development process will normally proceed through all four phases over many years. If the drug successfully passes through Phases I, II, and III, it will usually be approved by the national regulatory authority for use in the general population. Phase IV are 'post-approval' studies.\n\nPhase I includes 20 to 100 healthy volunteers or individuals with the disease/condition. This study typically lasts several months and its purpose is safety and dosage. Phase II includes larger number of individual participants ranging 100-300, and phase III includes Approximately 1000-3000 participants to collect more data about the drug. 70% of drugs advance to the next phase.\n\nBefore pharmaceutical companies start clinical trials on a drug, they conduct extensive pre-clinical studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55275532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55275532", "title": "Collapse of compassion", "text": "Collapse of compassion\n\nThe collapse of compassion is a psychological theory termed as the human tendency to turn away from mass suffering. This theory was proposed by Paul Slovic and Deborah Small. This theory is directly linked to that phenomenon which states if the number of people in need of help increases, the amount of compassion people would feel toward the people decreases. Psychic numbing is also directly linked to the collapse of compassion as well. Slovic introduced the concept of psychophysical numbing, which is the diminished sensitivity to the value of life and an inability to appreciate loss.\n\nResearchers proposed that in the human mind, large groups are almost staggering and therefore they rather participate in regulating their emotions to limit their overwhelming levels of emotions due to their experiences. This is because individuals tend to draw out no emotion regulation compared to that of the groups.\n\nThe collapse of compassion happens because people actively, perhaps subconsciously, regulate their emotions to withhold the compassion they feel for the groups of people who suffer. It is not because people are less capable of caring about plenty suffering rather than individuals who suffer. This can also be put as withholding our compassion for a wide range of sufferers not being a part of us from birth, rather it is something we do almost actively, in that moment people actively reduce or remove their affection.\n\nThe phenomenon of the collapse of compassion has also been written about in modern journalism and media reports. On 13 January 2015, Mark Hay reported that the massacre carried out by Boko Haram received almost no immediate media attention. However, on 7 January 2015, when 12 satirists from Charlie Hebdo magazine were killed in Paris, \"the media erupted (and continues to erupt) with heartfelt outrage and constant coverage.\" Journalists like Simon Allison of the Daily Maverick have clarified bias media coverage as a sign that the media and the world do not mourn deaths in Africa the way they do in the West, this obvious bias in media coverage also points towards a more understated failure in our natural human ability to gather any empathy as the number of victims rise following a mass killing or to see past the fact that numbers of people are not people, but that they are numbers.\n\nEconomic theorists argued that emotions and helping behaviour should track the number of people in need of help, we should respond more strongly when more people are suffering, whatever the context. Yet when psychologists measure actual emotion and helping behaviour, this is not the observed result. People tend to experience strong emotion in response to one individual in need of aid, and this translates into a strong desire to help. But when there are many individuals, people actually feel less emotion and act less charitably.\n\nThe collapse of compassion may be linked to that of compassion fatigue as well. Individuals with a higher capacity or responsibility to empathize with others may be at risk for compassion fatigue or stress, which is related to professionals and individuals who spend a significant amount of time responding to information related to suffering, according to Figley. However, newer research by Singer and Ricard suggests that it is lack of suitable distress tolerance which gets people fatigued in compassion activities. Research suggests that practice of nonjudgmental compassion can prevent fatigue and burnout.\n\nKa Ho Tam\n\nKa Ho Tam hired 242 undergrad students to participate in his study, they read stories of people from different parts of the world who shared their experiences (e.g. having a family gathering) or specific to a particular culture (e.g. celebrating an Ethiopian festival). Thereafter participants of 1 to 8 poverty-stricken Ethiopian children, along with a description of how people from that part of Ethiopia are suffering. Lastly, these participants did questionnaires to measure similarity with and compassion toward the Ethiopian children. He found that, the reading of the shared experiences drew out compassion toward a single victim and not multiple victims. This can be further explained by saying that people actively suppress compassion when they think it might be overwhelming; this means that humans respond to the suffering of others based on their own self-interest.\n\nC. Daryl Cameron and B. Keith Payne\n\nCameron and Payne's experiment tested whether removing a source of motivation to regulate would reduce the collapse of compassion.Other researchers like Kogut and Ritov and Small et al. who also did studies included measures of three alternative explanations for the collapse of compassion: psychological distance, diffusion of responsibility, and success in helping the victims. People might experience less emotion toward multiple victims because they feel a greater psychological distance from these victims; because they feel less responsible for helping; or because they feel that their helping will not matter much. If these alternatives were to be eliminated however, these explanations would more support the financial cost as a critical factor in the collapse of compassion.\n\nThe nine items measuring compassion were averaged together. A two-way between-subjects analysis of variance (ANOVA) was conducted to examine the effects of help request and number of victims on compassion. There were no significant main effects of help request, or number of victims. However, there was a significant interaction between help request and number of victims. The pattern of means for the interaction between compassion, help request, and number of victims was displayed, this interaction suggests that the difference in compassion toward one versus eight victims depended upon whether participants expected to be asked to help those victims. They probed the interaction by first examining the effect of the help request separately in the one-victim and eight-victim groups. In the one-victim condition, there was not a significant effect of help request on compassion. In the eight-victim condition, by contrast, participants reported significantly greater compassion when they would not be asked to help than when they would be asked to help. They also examined the effect of number of victims separately in the help-request and no-help-request conditions. When help was requested, participants reported numerically greater compassion toward a single victim than toward eight, although this simple effect was not significant. In contrast, when help was not requested, eight victims elicited significantly more compassion than one victim. By removing the expectation that participants would be asked to donate money, they were able to reverse the typical\ncollapse of compassion pattern.\n"}
{"id": "12542761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12542761", "title": "Copper deficiency", "text": "Copper deficiency\n\nCopper deficiency is defined either as insufficient copper to meet the needs of the body, or as a serum copper level below the normal range.\nThe neurodegenerative syndrome of copper deficiency has been recognized for some time in ruminant animals, in which it is commonly known as \"swayback\". Copper deficiency can manifest in parallel with vitamin B12 and other nutritional deficiencies.\n\nThe most common cause of copper deficiency is a remote gastrointestinal surgery, such as gastric bypass surgery, due to malabsorption of copper, or zinc toxicity. On the other hand, Menkes disease is a genetic disorder of copper deficiency involving a wide variety of symptoms that is often fatal.\n\nCopper is involved in normalized function of many enzymes, such as cytochrome c oxidase, which is complex IV in mitochondrial electron transport chain, ceruloplasmin, Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase, and in amine oxidases. These enzyme catalyze reactions for oxidative phosphorylation, iron transportation, antioxidant and free radical scavenging and neutralization, and neurotransmitter synthesis, respectively. A regular diet contains a variable amount of copper, but may provide 5 mg/day, of which only 20-50% is absorbed. The diet of the elderly may contain a lower copper content than the recommended daily intake. Dietary copper can be found in whole grain cereals, legumes, oysters, organ meats (particularly liver), cherries, dark chocolate, fruits, leafy green vegetables, nuts, poultry, prunes, and soybeans products like tofu.\n\nThe deficiency in copper can cause many hematological manifestations, such as myelodysplasia, anemia, low white blood cell count, and low count of neutrophils(a type of white blood cell that is often called \"the first line of defense\" for the immune system). Copper deficiency has long been known for as a cause of myelodysplasia (when a blood profile has indicators of possible future leukemia development), but it was not until 2001 that copper deficiency was associated with neurological manifestations like sensory ataxia (irregular coordination due to proprioceptive loss), spasticity, muscle weakness, and more rarely visual loss due to damage in the peripheral nerves, myelopathy (disease of the spinal cord), and rarely optic neuropathy.\n\nThe characteristic hematological (blood) effects of copper deficiency are anemia (which may be microcytic, normocytic or macrocytic) and neutropenia. Thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) is unusual.\n\nThe peripheral blood and bone marrow aspirate findings in copper deficiency can mimic myelodysplastic syndrome. Bone marrow aspirate in both conditions may show dysplasia of blood cell precursors and the presence of ring sideroblasts (erythroblasts containing multiple iron granules around the nucleus). Unlike most cases of myelodysplastic syndrome, the bone marrow aspirate in copper deficiency characteristically shows cytoplasmic vacuoles within red and white cell precursors, and karyotyping in cases of copper deficiency does not reveal cytogenetic features characteristic of myelodysplastic syndrome.\n\nAnemia and neutropenia typically resolve within six weeks of copper replacement.\n\nCopper deficiency can cause a wide variety of neurological problems including, myelopathy, peripheral neuropathy, and optic neuropathy.\n\nCopper deficiency myelopathy in humans was discovered and first described by Schleper and Stuerenburg in 2001. They described a patient with a history of gastrectomy and partial colonic resection who presented with severe tetraparesis and painful paraesthesias and who was found on imaging to have dorsomedial cervical cord T2 hyperintensity. Upon further analysis, it was found that the patient had decreased levels of serum coeruloplasmin, serum copper, and CSF copper. The patient was treated with parenteral copper and the patient`s paraesthesias did resolve. Since this discovery, there has been heightened and increasing awareness of copper-deficiency myelopathy and its treatment, and this disorder has been reviewed by Kumar.\nSufferers typically present difficulty walking (gait difficulty) caused by sensory ataxia (irregular muscle coordination) due to dorsal column dysfunction or degeneration of the spinal cord (myelopathy). Patients with ataxic gait have problems balancing and display an unstable wide walk. They often feel tremors in their torso, causing side way jerks and lunges.\n\nIn brain MRI, there is often an increased T2 signalling at the posterior columns of the spinal cord in patients with myelopathy caused by copper deficiency. T2 signalling is often an indicator of some kind of neurodegeneration. There are some changes in the spinal cord MRI involving the thoracic cord, the cervical cord or sometimes both. Copper deficiency myelopathy is often compared to subacute combined degeneration (SCD). Subacute combined degeneration is also a degeneration of the spinal cord, but instead vitamin B12 deficiency is the cause of the spinal degeneration. SCD also has the same high T2 signalling intensities in the posterior column as copper deficient patient in MRI imaging.\n\nAnother common symptom of copper deficiency is peripheral neuropathy, which is numbness or tingling that can start in the extremities and can sometimes progress radially inward towards the torso. In an Advances in Clinical Neuroscience & Rehabilitation (ACNR) published case report, a 69-year-old patient had progressively worsened neurological symptoms. These symptoms included diminished upper limb reflexes with abnormal lower limb reflexes, sensation to light touch and pin prick was diminished above the waist, vibration sensation was lost in the sternum, and markedly reduced proprioception or sensation about the self’s orientation. Many people suffering from the neurological effects of copper deficiency complain about very similar or identical symptoms as the patient. This numbness and tingling poses danger for the elderly because it increases their risk of falling and injuring themselves. Peripheral neuropathy can become very disabling leaving some patients dependent on wheel chairs or walking canes for mobility if there is lack of correct diagnosis. Rarely can copper deficiency cause major disabling symptoms. The deficiency will have to be present for an extensive amount of time until such disabling conditions manifest.\n\nSome patients suffering from copper deficiency have shown signs of vision and color loss. The vision is usually lost in the peripheral views of the eye. The bilateral vision loss is usually very gradual. An optical coherence tomography (OCT) shows some nerve fiber layer loss in most patients, suggesting the vision loss and color vision loss was secondary to optic neuropathy or neurodegeneration.\n\nBariatric surgery is a common cause of copper deficiency. Bariatric surgery, such as gastric bypass surgery, is often used for weight control of the morbidly obese. The disruption of the intestines and stomach from the surgery can cause absorption difficulties not only as regards copper, but also for iron and vitamin B12 and many other nutrients. The symptoms of copper deficiency myelopathy may take a long time to develop, sometimes decades before the myelopathy symptoms manifest.\n\nIncreased consumption of zinc is another cause of copper deficiency. Zinc is often used for the prevention or treatment of common colds and sinusitis (inflammation of sinuses due to an infection), ulcers, sickle cell disease, celiac disease, memory impairment, and acne. Zinc is found in many common vitamin supplements and is also found in denture creams. Recently, several cases of copper deficiency myeloneuropathy were found to be caused by prolonged use of denture creams containing high quantities of zinc.\n\nMetallic zinc is the core of all United States currency coins, including copper coated pennies. People who ingest a large number of coins will have elevated zinc levels, leading to zinc-toxicity-induced copper deficiency and the associated neurological symptoms. This was the case for a 57-year-old woman diagnosed with schizophrenia. The woman consumed over 600 coins, and started to show neurological symptoms such as unsteady gait and mild ataxia.\n\nMenkes disease is a congenital disease that is a cause of copper deficiency. Menkes disease is a hereditary condition caused by a defective gene involved with the metabolism of copper in the body. Menkes disease involves a wide variety of symptoms including floppy muscle tone, seizures, abnormally low temperatures, and a peculiar steel color hair that feels very rough. Menkes disease is usually a fatal disease with most children dying within the first ten years of life.\n\nIt is rarely suggested that excess iron supplementation causes copper deficiency myelopathy.\nAnother rarer cause of copper deficiency is Coeliac disease, probably due to malabsorption in the intestines.\nStill, a large percentage, around 20%, of cases have unknown causes.\n\nCopper functions as a prosthetic group, which permits electron transfers in key enzymatic pathways like the electron transport chain. Copper is integrated in the enzymes cytochrome c oxidase, which is involved in cellular respiration and oxidative phosphorylation, Cu/Zn dismutase, which is involved in antioxidant defense, and many more listed in the table below.\n\nThere have been several hypotheses about the role of copper and some of its neurological manifestations. Some suggest that disruptions in cytochrome c oxidase, also known as Complex IV, of the electron transport chain is responsible for the spinal cord degeneration.\n\nAnother hypothesis is that copper deficiency myelopathy is caused by disruptions in the methylation cycle. The methylation cycle causes a transfer of a methyl group (-CH) from methyltetrahydrofolate to a range of macromolecules by the suspected copper dependent enzyme methionine synthase. This cycle is able to produce purines, which are a component of DNA nucleotide bases, and also myelin proteins. The spinal cord is surrounded by a layer of protective protein coating called myelin (see figure). When this methionine synthase enzyme is disrupted, the methylation decreases and myelination of the spinal cord is impaired. This cycle ultimately causes myelopathy.\n\nThe anemia caused by copper deficiency is thought to be caused by impaired iron transport. Hephaestin is a copper containing ferroxidase enzyme located in the duodenal muscosa that oxidizes iron and facilitate its transfer across the basolateral membrane into circulation. Another iron transporting enzyme is ceruloplasmin. This enzyme is required to mobilize iron from the reticuloendothelial cell to plasma. Ceruloplasmin also oxidizes iron from its ferrous state to the ferric form that is required for iron binding. Impairment in these copper dependent enzymes that transport iron may cause the secondary iron deficiency anemia. Another speculation for the cause of anemia is involving the mitochondrial enzyme cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV in the electron transport chain). Studies have shown that animal models with impaired cytochrome c oxidase failed to synthesize heme from ferric iron at the normal rate. The lower rate of the enzyme might also cause the excess iron to clump, giving the heme an unusual pattern. This unusual pattern is also known as ringed sideroblastic anemia cells.\n\nThe cause of neutropenia is still unclear; however, the arrest of maturing myelocytes, or neutrophil precursors, may cause the neutrophil deficiency.\n\nZinc intoxication may cause anemia by blocking the absorption of copper from the stomach and duodenum. Zinc also upregulates the expression of chelator metallothionein in enterocytes, which are the majority of cells in the intestinal epithelium. Since copper has a higher affinity for metallothionein than zinc, the copper will remain bound inside the enterocyte, which will be later eliminated through the lumen. This mechanism is exploited therapeutically to achieve negative balance in Wilson’s disease, which involves an excess of copper.\n\nCopper deficiency is a very rare disease and is often misdiagnosed several times by physicians before concluding the deficiency of copper through differential diagnosis (copper serum test and bone marrow biopsy are usually conclusive in diagnosing copper deficiency). On average, patients are diagnosed with copper deficiency around 1.1 years after their first symptoms are reported to a physician.\nCopper deficiency can be treated with either oral copper supplementation or intravenous copper. If zinc intoxication is present, discontinuation of zinc may be sufficient to restore copper levels back to normal, but this usually is a very slow process. People who suffer from zinc intoxication will usually have to take copper supplements in addition to ceasing zinc consumption. Hematological manifestations are often quickly restored back to normal. The progression of the neurological symptoms will be stopped by appropriate treatment, but often with residual neurological disability.\n\n"}
{"id": "11848572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11848572", "title": "DAHANCA", "text": "DAHANCA\n\nThe Danish Head and Neck Cancer Group (DAHANCA) is a permanent working group operating under the authority of the Danish Society for Head and Neck Oncology. It operates an ongoing series of clinical studies regarding head and neck cancers.\n\nDAHANCA receives pharmaceutical industry sponsorship in order to conduct these trials, but it is an independent body, and industry bodies do not have the ability to exert their influence to suppress negative results.\n\nThe most recent study was DAHANCA 10 in 2007. DAHANCA 10 was a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study on darbepoetin-α (Aranesp, Amgen). The data-monitoring committee recommended early termination of this trial as results were suggesting outcomes were more favourable in the control-group compared to patients receiving the drug.\n\nDAHANCA 5 \nand DAHANCA 6/7\nwere other notable studies conducted by the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "11893075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11893075", "title": "David C. Lewis (physician)", "text": "David C. Lewis (physician)\n\nDavid C. Lewis is Professor Emeritus of Medicine and Community Health and the Donald G. Millar Distinguished Professor of Alcohol and Addiction Studies at Brown University.\n\nHe is Chairman of the Board of Directors of the United States' National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence. He serves on the Executive Committee and is former Executive Director of the Association for Medical Education and Research in Substance Abuse, and is the founder and a member of the Board of Directors of Physicians and Lawyers for National Drug Policy.\n\nLewis earned his bachelor's degree \"magna cum laude\" from Brown University in 1957 and his medical degree at Harvard University in 1961. He specialized in internal medicine and later in treatment of alcoholism and addiction to other drugs.\n\nHe entered the field of addictions while an internal medicine resident at Boston's Beth Israel Hospital, where he collaborated with famed Harvard psychiatrist Norman Zinberg on seminal work on heroin addiction (Zinberg & Lewis, 1964; Lewis & Zinberg, 1964). He later served from 1963-1964 as a health policy advisor to Cleveland mayor Dennis Kucinich and became a leading advocate for legalization of heroin maintenance programs (Lewis, 1964). From 1972 through 1979 he directed the Washingtonian Center for Addictions. He became Associate Clinical Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School in 1975. In 1976 he joined the Brown University faculty as an Associate Professor of Medicine and director of the Program in Alcoholism and Drug Abuse. He was named the Donald G. Millar Distinguished Scholar in Alcoholism Studies at Brown University in 1979 and chaired the Department of Community Health from 1981 through 1986. In 1982, he founded the Brown University Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies and was designated the Donald G. Millar Distinguished Professor of Alcohol and Addiction Studies as well as Professor of Medicine and Community Health. He directed the alcohol studies center for 18 years prior to his retirement. From 1990 through 1991 he was Scholar-in-Residence in the National Academy of Sciences-Institute of Medicine in Washington, DC.\n\nIn 1976, Lewis was one of the founders of the Association for Medical Education and Research in Substance Abuse (AMERSA). He served as President of AMERSA from 1983 through 1985 and became Executive Editor of AMERSA's peer-reviewed, quarterly journal Substance Abuse in 1984. From 1986 through 1995 he was director of AMERSA's National Office, which was located at Brown University.\n\nLewis and David Duncan, in a presentation at the 1996 annual meeting of the American Public Health Association, proposed that an alliance of health professionals could best bring about major reform of America's national drug policies. In 1997, he convened a meeting of 37 of the nation's leading physicians which adopted a policy statement declaring the \"war on drugs\" to be a failed approach and calling for adoption of an approach to drug abuse based on prevention and treatment rather than law enforcement. The group of physician leaders incorporated as Physician Leadership on National Drug Policy (PLNDP), with Lewis as its Project Director from 1997 through 2003. In 2004, the organization expanded its membership to include a number of leaders of the legal profession and became Physicians and Lawyers for National Drug Policy. Dr, Lewis continues to serve on PLNDP's Board of Directors. Lewis has been a leading spokesperson for harm reduction (Lewis, Duncan & Clifford, 1997) and for the perspective that sees addiction as being a chronic disease like any other (Lewis, 1994; McLellan, Lewis, O'Brien, & Kleber, 2000).\n\nIn 1996 Lewis delivered the Norman E. Zinberg Memorial Lecture at Cambridge Hospital/Harvard Medical School. He received the American Medical Association's Education and Research Foundation Award in 1997 for outstanding contributions and leadership in championing the inclusion of alcohol and other drug problems into the mainstream of medical practice and medical education. He received the Distinguished Contributions in the Addictions award from Harvard Medical School in 2002, and in 2004 he received the John P. McGovern Award and Lectureship from the American Society of Addiction Medicine for his contributions to the treatment of addictive disorders.\n\nDespite the fame, Lewis still loves teaching the best.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7441023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7441023", "title": "Facial mask", "text": "Facial mask\n\nA facial mask is a creamy or thick pasted mask applied to clean or smoothen the face. It often contains minerals, vitamins, and fruit extracts, such as cactus and cucumber. There are different kinds of masks for different purposes; some are deep cleansing for cleaning the pores. The perceived effect of a facial mask treatment can be revitalizing, rejuvenating or refreshing. Facial masks are most commonly used by women but are also used by men.\n\nSome masks are washed off with tepid water, others are peeled off by hand. Duration for wearing a mask depends on type of mask, but can be three minutes to 30 minutes, and sometimes the whole night.\n\nHoney is a very popular mask because it smooths skin, and cleans pores. A popular home remedy includes a slice of cucumber on the eyes. Some also use pickle juice.\n\nFacial masks should be selected according to skin type. Clay and mud masks suit oily skin; cream-based masks work best on dry skin types. Masks should be used after cleansing for better results. Firming masks should not be applied on the eye area because they can cause itching.\n\n"}
{"id": "245089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245089", "title": "Feldenkrais Method", "text": "Feldenkrais Method\n\nThe Feldenkrais Method is a type of exercise therapy devised by Moshé Feldenkrais (1904–1984). The method is claimed to reorganize connections between the brain and body and so improve body movement and psychological state.\n\nThere is no good medical evidence that the Feldenkrais method confers any health benefits, and it is not known if it is safe or cost-effective, even though it is hard to conceive of serious risks.\n\nIn 2015, the Australian Government's Department of Health published the results of a review of alternative therapies that sought to determine if any were suitable for being covered by health insurance; the Feldenkrais Method was one of 17 therapies evaluated for which no clear evidence of effectiveness was found. Accordingly in 2017 the Australian government named the Feldenkrais Method as a practice that would not qualify for insurance subsidy, saying this step would \"ensure taxpayer funds are expended appropriately and not directed to therapies lacking evidence\".\n\nIt is not known whether the Feldenkrais method is safe or cost-effective, though according to Ernst and Singh's overview of alternative medicine \"there are no conceivable serious risks\".\n\nDavid Gorski has written that the Method bears similarities to faith healing, is like \"glorified yoga\" and that it \"borders on quackery\".\n\nThe Feldenkrais Method is a type of alternative exercise therapy that proponents claim can repair impaired connections between the motor cortex and the body, so benefiting the quality of body movement and improving wellbeing. The Feldenkrais Guild of North America claims that the Feldenkrais method allows people to \"rediscover [their] innate capacity for graceful, efficient movement\" and that \"These improvements will often generalize to enhance functioning in other aspects of [their] life\". Proponents claim that the Feldenkrais Method can benefit people with a number of medical conditions, including children with autism, and people with multiple sclerosis.\n\nIn a session, a Feldenkrais practitioner directs attention to habitual movement patterns that are thought to be inefficient or strained, and attempts to teach new patterns using gentle, slow, repeated movements. Slow repetition is believed to be necessary to impart a new habit and allow it to begin to feel normal. These movements may be passive (performed by the practitioner on the recipient's body) or active (performed by the recipient). The recipient is fully clothed.\n\nSimilar to some other somatic methods, such as those started by F. Matthias Alexander, Elsa Gindler, and Gerda Alexander, the Feldenkrais Method originated in the efforts of its founder to work with his own bodily problem. In the case of Moshé Feldenkrais, it was a chronically injured knee.\n\nFeldenkrais first injured his knee while playing soccer in British-controlled Palestine in the 1920s. He reinjured it while negotiating the slippery decks of submarines while working as a scientist at the British Naval station at Fairlie, North Ayrshire, Scotland during the Second World War. Feldenkrais was by that time a Judo teacher and had mostly completed the work toward a D.Sc. under the guidance of Nobel laureate Frédéric Joliot-Curie. Facing the prospect of a surgery that could leave him with a life-long limp, Feldenkrais decided to apply the knowledge gained from his study of physics, engineering, and martial arts to an intensive self-study of his own movement habits. When his work provided him with relief, allowing him to avoid the knee surgery, he began exploring the methods he developed on himself with a small group of people at Fairlie, including scientific colleague John Desmond Bernal and John Boyd-Orr, Nobel laureate and first president of the World Academy of Art and Science.\n\nAfter serving as head of electronic engineering for the Israeli Army in newly formed Israel from 1951 to 1953, Feldenkrais devoted the rest of his life, from age 50 onward, to developing and teaching self-awareness through movement lessons.\n\nFrom the 1950s till his death in 1984, he taught continuously in his home city of Tel Aviv. Feldenkrais gained recognition in part through media accounts of his work with prominent individuals, including Israeli Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion. Beginning in the late 1950s, Feldenkrais made trips to teach in Europe and America. Several hundred people became certified Feldenkrais practitioners through trainings he held in San Francisco from 1975 to 1978 and in Amherst, Massachusetts from 1980 to 1984. Anticipating the need for an institutional structure to carry on his teaching, he helped found the Feldenkrais Guild of North America in 1977.\n\nFeldenkrais developed the conceptual framework of his method in part through the publication of six books, beginning with \"Body and Mature Behavior\" (1949) and ending with the posthumously published \"The Potent Self\" (1985).\n\nSince Feldenkrais' death, the international Feldenkrais community has used a guild structure to regulate its activity, with training accreditation boards in the Americas, Europe, and Australasia overseeing guilds and associations in eighteen member countries. \"The Feldenkrais Journal\", the annual publication of the Feldenkrais Guild of North America, serves as a forum for the Feldenkrais community to discuss the method and its applications.\n\nThe development of the Feldenkrais Method was influenced by Moshe Feldenkrais's involvement in the martial arts. After meeting Kano Jigoro, the founder of Judo, while living in Paris in the 1930s, Feldenkrais transitioned to that practice. One of the main influences of judo on the Feldenkrais Method is the differentiation between rote exercise and attentive movement: \"the methods of physical exercise in vogue ... exert only the muscles without any other goal, and one needs much will to bind oneself unfailingly to one of these methods\", wrote Feldenkrais in 1952. \"Judo is very different, each movement has a specific goal which is reached after a precise and supple execution.\" Before he focused on the creation of his own method, Feldenkrais influenced the teaching of martial arts in Western Europe through the publication of five books on jiujitsu and judo, as well as teaching at practice centers in France and Great Britain.\n\nFeldenkrais was born into an Hasidic family and community, and he acknowledged the influence of Hasidic Judaism on his method. In his 2007 book, \"Making Connections: Roots and Resonance in the Life of Moshe Feldenkrais\", David Kaetz argued that there are many lines of influence to be found between the Judaism of Feldenkrais's upbringing and the Feldenkrais Method – for instance, the use of paradox as a pedagogical tool. Feldenkrais also acknowledged the influence of the Russian spiritualist George Gurdjieff on his work, in particular Gurdjieff's teachings on automatism and freedom in embodiment.\n\nFeldenkrais earned his doctorate in a program at the Sorbonne intended to bridge theoretical physics and industrial engineering. Feldenkrais's biographer, Mark Reese, argues that Feldenkrais brought this emphasis on practical scientific inquiry to the understanding of embodiment expressed through his method: \"Feldenkrais was critical of the appropriation of the term 'energy' to express immeasurable phenomena or to label experiences that people had trouble describing\", notes Reese. \"He was impatient when someone invoked energy in pseudoscientific 'explanations' that masked a lack of understanding. In such cases he urged skepticism and scientific discourse. He encouraged empirical and phenomenological narratives that could lead to insights.\" Feldenkrais incorporated the views of other scientists into his teaching; for instance, he asked questions of both the neurosurgeon Karl H. Pribram and the cyberneticist Heinz von Foerster at trainings in San Francisco in the mid-1970s. Cybernetics, also known as dynamic systems theory, continued to influence the Feldenkrais Method in the 1990s through the work of human development researcher Esther Thelen.\n"}
{"id": "1259676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1259676", "title": "Felix Kersten", "text": "Felix Kersten\n\nEduard Alexander Felix Kersten (30 September 1898 – 16 April 1960) was before and during World War II the personal physical therapist of Heinrich Himmler. Kersten used his contacts with Himmler to help people persecuted by Nazi Germany.\n\nKersten was born in a Baltic German family in Tartu (Dorpat), Imperial Russia, now called Tartu, in Estonia. During the First World War he fought in the German Army and arrived in Finland in April 1918 with the German forces that intervened in the Finnish Civil War. Kersten served for a while in Suojeluskunta, was granted Finnish citizenship in 1920, and in September 1921 was commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant (\"vänrikki\") into the Finnish Army.\n\nAfter his return to civilian life, Kersten remained in Helsinki, where he studied therapy with the specialist Dr Colander, and after two years was awarded a certificate in physical therapy. He then left for Berlin, where he continued his studies and eventually became the pupil of a notable Chinese therapeutic masseur, Dr Ko, whom he had met at a dinner party. In 1925, Ko told Kersten \"You have learned all I can teach you.\" He then turned his practice over to Kersten and retired to Tibet.\n\nKersten had a number of influential patients, among them Prince Hendrik of the Netherlands (after 1928) and Benito Mussolini’s son-in-law, the Italian Foreign Minister Count Ciano. Kersten accepted Heinrich Himmler's request to become his personal physical therapist, writing later that he feared for his safety if he had refused.\n\nHe was able to alleviate Himmler’s severe stomach pains with his skills and gained his trust. Kersten used this trust to obtain pardons and the release of underground prisoners, labor camp inmates, homosexuals and others.\n\nDuring the War, Kersten also provided information to the OSS, predecessor of the CIA.\n\nTowards the end of the War, Kersten arranged a meeting between Himmler and Norbert Masur, a member of the Swedish branch of the World Jewish Congress, in Hartzwalde, a few miles from Ravensbrück concentration camp. As a result, Himmler agreed to spare the lives of the remaining 60,000 Jews left in Nazi concentration camps days before their liberation by the Allies.\n\nIn December 1945, the World Jewish Congress presented Kersten with a letter thanking him for helping to save Jewish concentration camp victims.\n\nIn his post-war memoirs Kersten takes credit for saving, among others, the whole Dutch people from forced deportation to Nazi-occupied Eastern Europe. In January 1950, the Dutch monarchy awarded him the Order of Orange-Nassau on this account. However a later investigation by Dutch historian Louis de Jong concluded that the mass deportation plan had not existed and that many of Kersten's documents were fabricated.\n\nThe Swedish archives testify that Kersten was intermediary between Himmler and Count Folke Bernadotte in the negotiations that led to the rescue operation 'The White Buses', saving hundreds of Norwegians and Danes from certain death in the last days of the Third Reich.\n\nKersten’s claims of being instrumental in saving Finland’s Jews from German hands may be exaggerated, but the Finnish government did use his services in the hope of influencing Himmler.\n\nAfter the War, Kersten lived in West Germany and Sweden, taking Swedish citizenship in 1953. He died in Hamm, while visiting Germany, aged 61.\n\nKersten's war memoirs were published in English translation in 1947 and a second edition was published in 1956 (\"The Kersten memoirs, 1940–1945\", London 1956) with an introduction by Hugh Trevor-Roper.\n\nWriter and journalist Joseph Kessel was the first to write about the life of Felix Kersten, in his book \"The man with the miraculous hands \"(1960).\n\nFelix Kersten is parodied in the Woody Allen book \"Getting Even\", in the chapter entitled \"The Schmeed Memoirs\", in which a fictional barber in wartime Germany describes his time as a hair stylist for Adolf Hitler and other high-ranking Nazi officers.\n\nKersten also appears as a character in the film , directed by Hans-Jürgen Syberberg and as the main character in the 2014 novel \"Gods and Devils\".\n\nKersten is played by actor Martin Jarvis in the radio play by Neville Watchurst \"A Vital Flaw\", about his work to help Heinrich Himmler's health. The play was first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 Extra on 5 September 2009.\n\nOhry A, Dr. Felix Kersten :physiotherapist, mysticist and Righteous man. Harefuah 137; 346-7, 1999\n"}
{"id": "22325835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22325835", "title": "Fibromuscular Dysplasia Society of America", "text": "Fibromuscular Dysplasia Society of America\n\nFibromuscular Dysplasia Society of America is an American health charity that deals with fibromuscular dysplasia, a vascular disease.\n\nThe society sponsors a registry of patients with fibromuscular dysplasia.\n"}
{"id": "11773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11773", "title": "Flynn effect", "text": "Flynn effect\n\nThe Flynn effect is the substantial and long-sustained increase in both fluid and crystallized intelligence test scores that was measured in many parts of the world over the 20th century. When intelligence quotient (IQ) tests are initially standardized using a sample of test-takers, by convention the average of the test results is set to 100 and their standard deviation is set to 15 or 16 IQ points. When IQ tests are revised, they are again standardized using a new sample of test-takers, usually born more recently than the first. Again, the average result is set to 100. However, when the new test subjects take the older tests, in almost every case their average scores are significantly above 100.\n\nTest score increases have been continuous and approximately linear from the earliest years of testing to the present. For the Raven's Progressive Matrices test, a study published in the year 2009 found that British children's average scores rose by 14 IQ points from 1942 to 2008. Similar gains have been observed in many other countries in which IQ testing has long been widely used, including other Western European countries, Japan, and South Korea.\n\nThere are numerous proposed explanations of the Flynn effect, as well as some skepticism about its implications. Similar improvements have been reported for other cognitions such as semantic and episodic memory. Research suggests that there is an ongoing reversed Flynn effect, i.e. a decline in IQ scores, in Norway, Denmark, Australia, Britain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, France and German-speaking countries, a development which appears to have started in the 1990s.\n\nThe Flynn effect is named for James R. Flynn, who did much to document it and promote awareness of its implications. The term itself was coined by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray, authors of \"The Bell Curve\". Although the general term for the phenomenon - referring to no researcher in particular - continues to be \"secular rise in IQ scores\", many textbooks on psychology and IQ testing have now followed the lead of Herrnstein and Murray in calling the phenomenon the Flynn effect.\n\nIQ tests are updated periodically. For example, the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC), originally developed in 1949, was updated in 1974, in 1991, 2003 and again in 2014. The revised versions are standardized based on the performance of test-takers in standardization samples. A standard score of IQ 100 is defined as the median performance of the standardization sample. Thus one way to see changes in norms over time is to conduct a study in which the same test-takers take both an old and new version of the same test. Doing so confirms IQ gains over time. Some IQ tests, for example tests used for military draftees in NATO countries in Europe, report raw scores, and those also confirm a trend of rising scores over time. The average rate of increase seems to be about three IQ points per decade in the United States, as scaled by the Wechsler tests. The increasing test performance over time appears on every major test, in every age range, at every ability level, and in every modern industrialized country, although not necessarily at the same rate as in the United States. The increase was continuous and roughly linear from the earliest days of testing to the mid 1990s. Though the effect is most associated with IQ increases, a similar effect has been found with increases in attention and of semantic and episodic memory.\n\nUlric Neisser estimated that using the IQ values of 1997, the average IQ of the United States in 1932, according to the first Stanford–Binet Intelligence Scales standardization sample, was 80. Neisser states that \"Hardly any of them would have scored 'very superior', but nearly one-quarter would have appeared to be 'deficient.'\" He also wrote that \"Test scores are certainly going up all over the world, but whether intelligence itself has risen remains controversial.\"\n\nTrahan et al. (2014) found that the effect was about 2.93 points per decade, based on both Stanford–Binet and Wechsler tests; they also found no evidence the effect was diminishing. In contrast, Pietschnig & Voracek (2015) reported, in their meta-analysis of studies involving nearly 4 million participants, that the Flynn effect had decreased in recent decades. They also reported that the magnitude of the effect was different for different types of intelligence (\"0.41, 0.30, 0.28, and 0.21 IQ points annually for fluid, spatial, full-scale, and crystallized IQ test performance, respectively\"), and that the effect was stronger for adults than for children.\n\nRaven (2000) found that, as Flynn suggested, data interpreted as showing a decrease in many abilities with increasing age must be re-interpreted as showing that there has been a dramatic increase of these abilities with date of birth. On many tests this occurs at all levels of ability.\n\nSome studies have found the gains of the Flynn effect to be particularly concentrated at the lower end of the distribution. Teasdale and Owen (1989), for example, found the effect primarily reduced the number of low-end scores, resulting in an increased number of moderately high scores, with no increase in very high scores. In another study, two large samples of Spanish children were assessed with a 30-year gap. Comparison of the IQ distributions indicated that the mean IQ-scores on the test had increased by 9.7 points (the Flynn effect), the gains were concentrated in the lower half of the distribution and negligible in the top half, and the gains gradually decreased as the IQ of the individuals increased. Some studies have found a reverse Flynn effect with declining scores for those with high IQ.\n\nIn 1987, Flynn took the position that the very large increase indicates that IQ tests do not measure intelligence but only a minor sort of \"abstract problem-solving ability\" with little practical significance. He argued that if IQ gains do reflect intelligence increases, there would have been consequent changes of our society that have not been observed (a presumed non-occurrence of a \"cultural renaissance\"). Flynn no longer endorses this view of intelligence and has since elaborated and refined his view of what rising IQ scores mean.\n\nEarlier investigators had discovered rises in raw IQ test scores in some study populations, but had not published general investigations of that issue in particular. Historian Daniel C. Calhoun cited earlier psychology literature on IQ score trends in his book \"The Intelligence of a People\" (1973). R. L. Thorndike drew attention to rises in Stanford-Binet scores in a 1975 review of the history of intelligence testing.\n\nThere is debate about whether the rise in IQ scores also corresponds to a rise in general intelligence, or only a rise in special skills related to taking IQ tests. Because children attend school longer now and have become much more familiar with the testing of school-related material, one might expect the greatest gains to occur on such school content-related tests as vocabulary, arithmetic or general information. Just the opposite is the case: abilities such as these have experienced relatively small gains and even occasional decreases over the years. Meta-analytic findings indicate that Flynn effects occur for tests assessing both fluid and crystallized abilities. For example, Dutch conscripts gained 21 points during only 30 years, or 7 points per decade, between 1952 and 1982. But this rise in IQ test scores is not wholly explained by an increase in general intelligence. Studies have shown that while test scores have improved over time, the improvement is not fully correlated with latent factors related to intelligence. Rushton has shown that the gains in IQ over time (the Lynn-Flynn effect) are unrelated to \"g\". Other researchers have shown that the IQ gains described by the Flynn effect are due in part to increasing intelligence, and in part to increases in test-specific skills. In parallel with the measured gains in IQ scores, secular declines have been found for \"mental speed, digit span backwards, the use of difficult words, and color acuity, all of which are related to intelligence\".\n\nA 2017 survey of 75 experts in the field of intelligence research suggested four key causes of the Flynn effect: Better health, better nutrition, more and better education, and rising standards of living. Genetic changes were seen as not important. The experts' views agreed with an independently performed meta-analysis on published Flynn effect data, except that the latter found life history speed to be the most important factor.\n\nThe expert survey explained the possible end or decline in the Flynn effect by asymmetric fertility by means of genetic effects, migration, asymmetric fertility by means of socialization effects, declines in education, and the influence of media.\n\nDuration of average schooling has increased steadily. One problem with this explanation is that if in the US comparing older and more recent subjects with similar educational levels, then the IQ gains appear almost undiminished in each such group considered individually.\n\nMany studies find that children who do not attend school score drastically lower on the tests than their regularly attending peers. During the 1960s, when some Virginia counties closed their public schools to avoid racial integration, compensatory private schooling was available only for Caucasian children. On average, the scores of African-American children who received no formal education during that period decreased at a rate of about six IQ points per year.\n\nAnother explanation is an increased familiarity of the general population with tests and testing. For example, children who take the very same IQ test a second time usually gain five or six points. However, this seems to set an upper limit on the effects of test sophistication. One problem with this explanation and others related to schooling is that in the US, the groups with greater test familiarity show smaller IQ increases.\n\nEarly intervention programs have shown mixed results. Some preschool (ages 3–4) intervention programs like \"Head Start\" do not produce lasting changes of IQ, although they may confer other benefits. The \"Abecedarian Early Intervention Project\", an all-day program that provided various forms of environmental enrichment to children from infancy onward, showed IQ gains that did not diminish over time. The IQ difference between the groups, although only five points, was still present at age 12. Not all such projects have been successful. Also, such IQ gains can diminish until age 18.\n\nCiting a high correlation between rising literacy rates and gains in IQ, David Marks has argued that the Flynn effect is caused by changes in literacy rates.\n\nStill another theory is that the general environment today is much more complex and stimulating. One of the most striking 20th century changes of the human intellectual environment has come from the increase of exposure to many types of visual media. From pictures on the wall to movies to television to video games to computers, each successive generation has been exposed to richer optical displays than the one before and may have become more adept at visual analysis. This would explain why visual tests like the Raven's have shown the greatest increases. An increase only of particular form(s) of intelligence would explain why the Flynn effect has not caused a \"cultural renaissance too great to be overlooked.\"\n\nIn 2001, Dickens and Flynn presented a model for resolving several contradictory findings regarding IQ. They argue that the measure \"heritability\" includes both a direct effect of the genotype on IQ and also indirect effects such that the genotype changes the environment, thereby affecting IQ. That is, those with a greater IQ tend to seek stimulating environments that further increase IQ. These reciprocal effects result in gene environment correlation. The direct effect could initially have been very small, but feedback can create large differences of IQ. In their model, an environmental stimulus can have a very great effect on IQ, even for adults, but this effect also decays over time unless the stimulus continues (the model could be adapted to include possible factors, like nutrition during early childhood, that may cause permanent effects). The Flynn effect can be explained by a generally more stimulating environment for all people. The authors suggest that any program designed to increase IQ may produce long-term IQ gains if that program teaches children how to replicate the types of cognitively demanding experiences that produce IQ gains outside the program. To maximize lifetime IQ, the programs should also motivate them to continue searching for cognitively demanding experiences after they have left the program.\n\nFlynn in his 2007 book \"What Is Intelligence?\" further expanded on this theory. Environmental changes resulting from modernization — such as more intellectually demanding work, greater use of technology and smaller families — have meant that a much larger proportion of people are more accustomed to manipulating abstract concepts such as hypotheses and categories than a century ago. Substantial portions of IQ tests deal with these abilities. Flynn gives, as an example, the question 'What do a dog and a rabbit have in common?' A modern respondent might say they are both mammals (an abstract, or \"a priori\" answer, which depends only on the meanings of the words 'dog' and 'rabbit' ), whereas someone a century ago might have said that humans catch rabbits with dogs (a concrete, or \"a posteriori\" answer, which depended on what happened to be the case at that time).\n\nImproved nutrition is another possible explanation. Today's average adult from an industrialized nation is taller than a comparable adult of a century ago. That increase of stature, likely the result of general improvements of nutrition and health, has been at a rate of more than a centimeter per decade. Available data suggest that these gains have been accompanied by analogous increases of head size, and by an increase in the average size of the brain. This argument had been thought to suffer the difficulty that groups who tend to be of smaller overall body size (e.g. women, or people of Asian ancestry) do not have lower average IQs. Richard Lynn, however, claims that while people of East Asian origin may often have smaller bodies, they tend to have larger brains and higher IQs than average whites.\n\nA 2005 study presented data supporting the nutrition hypothesis, which predicts that gains will occur predominantly at the low end of the IQ distribution, where nutritional deprivation is probably most severe. An alternative interpretation of skewed IQ gains could be that improved education has been particularly important for this group. Richard Lynn makes the case for nutrition, arguing that cultural factors cannot typically explain the Flynn effect because its gains are observed even at infant and preschool levels, with rates of IQ test score increase about equal to those of school students and adults. Lynn states that \"This rules out improvements in education, greater test sophistication, etc. and most of the other factors that have been proposed to explain the Flynn effect. He proposes that the most probable factor has been improvements in pre-natal and early post-natal nutrition.\"\n\nA century ago, nutritional deficiencies may have limited body and organ functionality, including skull volume. The first two years of life is a critical time for nutrition. The consequences of malnutrition can be irreversible and may include poor cognitive development, educability, and future economic productivity. On the other hand, Flynn has pointed to 20-point gains on Dutch military (Raven's type) IQ tests between 1952, 1962, 1972, and 1982. He observes that the Dutch 18-year-olds of 1962 had a major nutritional handicap. They were either in the womb, or were recently born, during the great Dutch famine of 1944 – when German troops monopolized food and 18,000 people died of starvation. Yet, concludes Flynn, \"they do not show up even as a blip in the pattern of Dutch IQ gains. It is as if the famine had never occurred.\" It appears that the effects of diet are gradual, taking effect over decades (affecting mother as well as child) rather than a few months .\n\nIn support of the nutritional hypothesis, it is known that, in the United States, the average height before 1900 was about 10 cm (∼4 inches) shorter than it is today. Possibly related to the Flynn effect is a similar change of skull size and shape during the last 150 years. Though the idea that brain size is unrelated to race and intelligence was popularized in the 1980s, studies continue to show significant correlations.\nA Norwegian study found that height gains were strongly correlated with intelligence gains until the cessation of height gains in military conscript cohorts towards the end of the 1980s.<ref name=\"doi10.1016/j.intell.2004.06.004\"></ref> Both height and skull size increases probably result from a combination of phenotypic plasticity and genetic selection over this period. With only five or six human generations in 150 years, time for natural selection has been very limited, suggesting that increased skeletal size resulting from changes in population phenotypes is more likely than recent genetic evolution.\n\nIt is well known that micronutrient deficiencies change the development of intelligence. For instance, one study has found that iodine deficiency causes a fall, on average, of 12 IQ points in China.\n\nScientists James Feyrer, Dimitra Politi, and David N. Weil have found in the U.S. that the proliferation of iodized salt increased IQ by 15 points in some areas. Journalist Max Nisen has stated that, with this type of salt becoming popular, that \"the aggregate effect has been extremely positive.\"\n\nDaley et al. (2003) found a significant Flynn effect among children in rural Kenya, and concluded that nutrition was one of the hypothesized explanations that best explained their results (the others were parental literacy and family structure).\n\nEppig, Fincher, and Thornhill (2009) argue that \"From an energetics standpoint, a developing human will have difficulty building a brain and fighting off infectious diseases at the same time, as both are very metabolically costly tasks\" and that \"the Flynn effect may be caused in part by the decrease in the intensity of infectious diseases as nations develop.\" They suggest that improvements in gross domestic product (GDP), education, literacy, and nutrition may have an effect on IQ mainly through reducing the intensity of infectious diseases.\n\nEppig, Fincher, and Thornhill (2011) in a similar study instead looking at different US states found that states with a higher prevalence of infectious diseases had lower average IQ. The effect remained after controlling for the effects of wealth and educational variation.\n\nAtheendar Venkataramani (2010) studied the effect of malaria on IQ in a sample of Mexicans. Exposure during the birth year to malaria eradication was associated with increases in IQ. It also increased the probability of employment in a skilled occupation. The author suggests that this may be one explanation for the Flynn effect and that this may be an important explanation for the link between national malaria burden and economic development. A literature review of 44 papers states that cognitive abilities and school performance were shown to be impaired in sub-groups of patients (with either cerebral malaria or uncomplicated malaria) when compared with healthy controls. Studies comparing cognitive functions before and after treatment for acute malarial illness continued to show significantly impaired school performance and cognitive abilities even after recovery. Malaria prophylaxis was shown to improve cognitive function and school performance in clinical trials when compared to placebo groups.\n\nHeterosis, or hybrid vigor associated with historical reductions of the levels of inbreeding, has been proposed by Michael Mingroni as an alternative explanation of the Flynn effect. However, James Flynn has pointed out that even if everyone mated with a sibling in 1900, subsequent increases in heterosis would not be a sufficient explanation of the observed IQ gains.\n\nJon Martin Sundet and colleagues (2004) examined scores on intelligence tests given to Norwegian conscripts between the 1950s and 2002. They found that the increase of scores of general intelligence stopped after the mid-1990s and declined in numerical reasoning sub-tests.\n\nTeasdale and Owen (2005) examined the results of IQ tests given to Danish male conscripts. Between 1959 and 1979 the gains were 3 points per decade. Between 1979 and 1989 the increase approached 2 IQ points. Between 1989 and 1998 the gain was about 1.3 points. Between 1998 and 2004 IQ declined by about the same amount as it gained between 1989 and 1998. They speculate that \"a contributing factor in this recent fall could be a simultaneous decline in proportions of students entering 3-year advanced-level school programs for 16–18-year-olds.\" The same authors in a more comprehensive 2008 study, again on Danish male conscripts, found that there was a 1.5-point increase between 1988 and 1998, but a 1.5-point decrease between 1998 and 2003/2004. A possible contributing factor to the more recent decline may be changes in the Danish educational system. Another may be the rising proportion of immigrants or their immediate descendants in Denmark. This is supported by data on Danish draftees where first or second generation immigrants with Danish nationality score below average.\n\nIn Australia, the IQ of 6–11 year olds as measured by the Colored Progressive Matrices has shown no increase from 1975–2003.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a study by Flynn (2009) found that tests carried out in 1980 and again in 2008 show that the IQ score of an average 14-year-old dropped by more than two points over the period. For the upper half of the results the performance was even worse. Average IQ scores declined by six points. However, children aged between five and 10 saw their IQs increase by up to half a point a year over the three decades. Flynn argues that the abnormal drop in British teenage IQ could be due to youth culture having “stagnated” or even dumbed down. He also states that the youth culture is more oriented towards computer games than towards reading and holding conversations. Researcher Richard Gray, commenting on the study, also mentions the computer culture diminishing reading books as well as a tendency towards teaching to the test.\n\nLynn and Harvey argued in 2008 that the causes of the above are difficult to interpret since these countries had had significant recent immigration from countries with lower average national IQs. Nevertheless, they expect that similar patterns will occur, or have occurred, first in other developed nations and then in the developing world as there is a limit to how much environmental factors can improve intelligence. Furthermore, during the last century there is a negative correlation between fertility and intelligence although there is not yet any conclusive evidence of the association between the two. They estimate that there has been a dysgenic decline in the world's genotypic IQ (masked by the Flynn effect for the phenotype) of 0.86 IQ points per decade for the years 1950–2000.\n\nBratsberg & Rogeberg (2018) present evidence that the Flynn effect in Norway has reversed, and that both the original rise in mean IQ scores and their subsequent decline were caused by environmental factors.\n\nIf the Flynn effect has ended in developed nations, then this may possibly allow national differences in IQ scores to diminish if the Flynn effect continues in nations with lower average national IQs.\n\nAlso, if the Flynn effect has ended for the majority in developed nations, it may still continue for minorities, especially for groups like immigrants where many may have received poor nutrition during early childhood or have had other disadvantages. A study in the Netherlands found that children of non-Western immigrants had improvements for \"g\", educational achievements, and work proficiency compared to their parents, although there were still remaining differences compared to ethnic Dutch.\n\nThere is a controversy as to whether the US racial gap in IQ scores is diminishing. If that is the case then this may or may not be related to the Flynn effect. Flynn has commented that he never claimed that the Flynn effect has the same causes as the black-white gap, but that it shows that environmental factors can create IQ differences of a magnitude similar to the gap. Research that has examined whether g factor and IQ gains from the Flynn effect are related have found there is a negative correlation between the two, which may indicate that group differences and the Flynn effect are possibly due to differing causes\n\nThe Flynn effect has also been part of the discussions regarding Spearman's hypothesis, which states that differences in the g factor are the major source of differences between blacks and whites observed in many studies of race and intelligence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22811332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22811332", "title": "Generation Scotland", "text": "Generation Scotland\n\nGeneration Scotland is a Biobank, a resource of biological samples and information on health and lifestyle from thousands of volunteer donors in Scotland.\n\nThe aim of Generation Scotland is to create an ethically sound, family- and population-based infrastructure to identify the genetic basis of common complex diseases. The Generation Scotland concept has been evolving for several years (see Timeline), and now involves three complementary projects, the Scottish Family Health Study GS:SFHS, Genetic Health in the 21st Century GS:21CGH and the Donor DNA Databank GS:3D. Together these projects have recruited a cohort of over 30,000 people.\n\nGeneration Scotland is establishing multi-disciplinary skills networks in genetic epidemiology, statistical genetics and health informatics. Social scientists have been involved from the start, conducting a public consultation process and addressing ethical, legal and social issues. The output from these projects will be of value to the biomedical, sociomedicolegal, healthcare and bioindustry sectors.\n\nThe main focus of Generation Scotland is on identifying the inherited factors, or genes, that influence our risk of being affected by a number of common causes of ill health, including heart disease, diabetes, mental illness, obesity, stroke and diseases of the bones and joints. Our genes also influence how we respond to different medicines. The basic idea behind Generation Scotland is that by comparing the genes in large groups of people (such as patients and healthy people, or people who respond well to a medicine and people who do not) researchers will be able to work out which genetic factors contribute to our chances of becoming unwell or of suffering from drug-related side-effects.\n\nCommon disorders such as heart disease and diabetes are significant causes of chronic ill health and death in middle-aged people. Adverse reactions to prescription drugs delay recovery and drain healthcare resources. Generation Scotland is therefore addressing issues of major public health importance.\n\nDisease risk and drug response are examples of complex traits. Instead of having a single cause, complex traits typically result from a combination of factors including genes, environment and lifestyle (diet, smoking history, exercise patterns, use of other medicines etc.). Until very recently there was no efficient way of systematically searching for the genetic factors that underlie complex diseases. However the completion of the Human Genome Project, coupled with technological advances that allow rapid comparison of thousands of DNA samples, means that the necessary methods are now available.\n\nDetection of the relevant genetic factors depends on statistical analysis of data obtained by comparing the DNA of people with and without a particular trait (cases and controls, respectively). This is a powerful approach which has already yielded considerable success. However thousands of individuals must be recruited for such case-control studies to generate meaningful results and this is often beyond the means of smaller research groups.\n\nGeneration Scotland has put in place the considerable infrastructure required to recruit the necessary numbers of participants, to collect, process and securely store the associated biological samples and data, and to make these available to the wider research community. Scientists who are planning research into the causes or treatments of common complex diseases and who have appropriate approval from a Research Ethics Committee can apply to use the resource in accordance with Generation Scotland's Access Policy. All data generated in this way will be fed back to Generation Scotland and will in turn form part or the resource.\n\nGeneration Scotland is funded by\n\nGeneration Scotland is a multi-institution, cross-disciplinary collaboration involving\n\nGeneration Scotland involves several disciplines including medicine, science, education and social science. This is reflected by the diversity of projects in the Generation Scotland portfolio:\n\nPublic involvement is essential for the overall success of any Biobank and therefore one of the first Generation Scotland projects to get underway was a programme of public consultation. The aim of the programme is to foster a relationship of trust between potential participants and scientists and to understand and explain public reaction to a wide range of relevant issues including genetics in healthcare, the use of bioinformation, and concerns surrounding consent and confidentiality.\n\nBiobank projects require considerable infrastructure to ensure that samples and data gathered from volunteers at the various recruitment centres are collected efficiently, processed and stored securely, and analysed effectively. Generation Scotland has designed protocols to standardise and integrate all stages of the process from volunteer recruitment to data handling. For example, a customised Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) is being used to track samples as they move from the clinics to the Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility, Edinburgh for processing and storage, and then on to the research laboratories for analysis.\n\nThe Generation Scotland concept has evolved over many years. Below is a list of the key milestones in the development of Generation Scotland and its associated projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52076433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52076433", "title": "Hot cycling", "text": "Hot cycling\n\nHot cycling refers to a spin class performed in a room heated between 80 and 84 degrees Fahrenheit. Like hot yoga, which uses heat to increase an individual's flexibility in the poses. Heated exercise at temperatures of 100 degrees Fahrenheit has also been shown to strengthen the immune system and increase the volume of oxygenated blood which can lower cholesterol.\n"}
{"id": "3963210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3963210", "title": "James F. Howard Jr.", "text": "James F. Howard Jr.\n\nJames Francis Howard Jr. (born May 3, 1948) is a Professor of Neurology and Medicine at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\nHoward was born on May 3, 1948 in Bellows Falls, Vermont. He received a BA in 1970 and a M.D. in 1974, both from the University of Vermont.\n\nHoward became an Assistant Professor of Neurology and Medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1979, he was promoted to Associate Professor in 1985, and promoted to full Professor in 1992. He is also an Adjunct Professor of Clinical Sciences (Neurology) at the North Carolina State University.\n\nIn 2003 a chair was endowed in Professor Howard's name for the exceptional care given to a member of the Broyhill family in the years before. The intent is to support clinical research into myasthenia gravis and other neuromuscular disorders. \n\n"}
{"id": "1269276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1269276", "title": "Jean-Christophe Lafaille", "text": "Jean-Christophe Lafaille\n\nJean-Christophe Lafaille (31 March 1965 – 27 January 2006 [presumed]) was a French mountaineer noted for a number of difficult ascents in the Alps and Himalaya, and for what has been described as \"perhaps the finest self-rescue ever performed in the Himalaya\", when he was forced to descend the mile-high south face of Annapurna alone with a broken arm, after his climbing partner had been killed in a fall. He climbed eleven of the fourteen eight-thousand-metre peaks, many of them alone or by previously unclimbed routes, but disappeared during a solo attempt to make the first winter ascent of Makalu, the world's fifth highest mountain.\n\nBorn in Gap, Hautes-Alpes, Lafaille's background was in sport climbing, and as a teenager he climbed extensively at Céüse and played a part in turning it into one of the world's best known climbing venues. In 1989 he became the first Frenchman to solo a climb graded 7c+, and one of the first to climb 8c graded routes.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Lafaille qualified as a mountain guide and began mountaineering in the Alps. He made a number of difficult ascents on the Mont Blanc massif, including the first solo climb of \"Divine Providence\" on the Grand Pilier d'Angle, one of the hardest routes on the massif.\n\nOn the strength of his climbs in the Alps, Lafaille was invited on an expedition to Annapurna by Pierre Béghin, one of the leading French climbers of the day. The pair attempted the mountain's vast South Face following the monsoon season in October 1992 in Alpine style, with no Sherpa support, pre-stocked campsites or fixed ropes on the upper mountain. They had reached a height of 7,400 metres when bad weather forced them to descend. The pair made a series of abseils down the face, but due to their lightweight approach they had little protective equipment and were often forced to abseil from a single anchor to conserve equipment. On the fourth or fifth abseil, Beghin fell to his death when the single cam he was using as an anchor became dislodged from the rock. Beghin had been carrying most of the pair's technical equipment, including all the ropes, and Lafaille was left alone on the face, a vertical mile above safety.\n\nWith great difficulty, Lafaille managed to climb down the 75 degree face to the pair's last bivouac site, where he found 20 metres of thin rope, allowing him to make short abseils down some of the hardest parts. With no technical equipment to use as anchors he was forced to entrust his weight to tent pegs or, on one occasion, a plastic bottle. He finally reached what should have been the relative safety of the top of a fixed rope which he and Beghin had installed on a steep rock band, but almost immediately he was struck by a falling rock, which broke his right arm. Disabled and helpless, he lay on a ledge for two days in the hope that other climbers would rescue him. However, while there was a Slovenian team attempting a route on a different part of the South Face, they judged that a rescue attempt would be too dangerous to undertake, so help never came. The cruellest thing about the ordeal, Lafaille said, was being able to see life in the valley below, and by night, the flashbulbs of trekkers' cameras. In spite of this, he later agreed that the Slovenians had made the right decision in not trying to save him.\n\nEventually, with all hope of rescue gone, Lafaille resolved to continue down alone. He initially tried to continue abseiling, but unable to control the rope with only one hand and his teeth he reverted to downclimbing one-handed, and was utterly exhausted when he reached the Slovenian team's base camp. By that time the climbers at the base of the mountain had given up hope for him, and his first wife, Véronique, had already been told that he had died. Reinhold Messner later said that the survival instinct he showed was of the sort which defines the best mountaineers.\n\nAfter Annapurna, Lafaille resolved never to climb again, but during his long physical and psychological recovery he began scrambling in the foothills of the Alps, and eventually returned to extreme climbing. In the Alps he carried out an enchainment of nine north faces in fifteen days, skiing from mountain to mountain, and made the first ascent of the \"Lafaille Route\" on the Petit Dru, which at the time was considered the hardest route in the Alps, but his most important climbs were in the Himalaya. \n\nA year after his accident on Annapurna, he climbed Cho Oyu, and then in 1994 he climbed a new route, solo, on the north face of Shishapangma. It was the first of many solo ascents of 8000 meter peaks, including consecutive ascents of Gasherbrum I and Gasherbrum II in four days in 1996, and Manaslu in 2001.\n\nAnnapurna remained an obsession for Lafaille, and he would later call his autobiography \"Prisoner of Annapurna\". He returned to the mountain three times. The first time he made a solo attempt on the British line on the South Face, which failed due to poor snow conditions. In 1998 he returned to the same route with a larger team, but the expedition was abandoned when a team member was killed in an avalanche. He finally reached the summit in 2002 with Alberto Iñurrategi \"via\" the long, committing east ridge.\n\nBy 2003 Lafaille had decided to try to climb all fourteen 8000-metre peaks; but unlike many of the mountaineers who take on this goal, he had no desire simply to climb them by well established routes, in large expeditions and with bottled oxygen. He preferred to continue trying to achieve new routes or solo ascents, or to climb in the more demanding winter season. In 2003 he climbed Nanga Parbat, Dhaulagiri (solo) and Broad Peak in a two-month period. The last of these nearly killed him when he fell into a crevasse and then developed high altitude pulmonary edema. He was rescued by Ed Viesturs and Denis Urubko.\n\nIn December 2004 he made a solo ascent of Shishapangma. It was intended to be the first winter ascent of the mountain, but he reached the summit on 11 December which was seen as too early to be classed as a true winter ascent. By this point he had completed eleven of the fourteen peaks, and needed Everest, Kanchenjunga and Makalu to complete his goal.\n\nLafaille's last climb was one of his boldest. In December 2005 he began a solo attempt to climb Makalu (8462m), the only 8000-metre peak in Nepal not to have seen a winter ascent. It was a goal which would have been considered suicidal a few years previously, but for Lafaille the danger was an important part of the experience. He commented\n\n\"I find it fascinating that our planet still has areas where no modern technology can save you, where you are reduced to your most basic - and essential - self. This natural space creates demanding situations that can lead to suffering and death, but also generate a wild interior richness. Ultimately, there is no way of reconciling these contradictions. All I can do it try to live within their margins, in the narrow boundary between joy and horror. Everything on this earth is a balancing act.\"\n\nOver four weeks in December and January, he hauled loads up the mountain, entirely alone above his advance base camp at 5300m, but was forced to retreat from the col at Makalu La by strong winds, which destroyed his tent and twice blew him into the air. However, after two weeks at base camp the weather improved, and on 24 January he set off up the mountain. His only means of communication was a satellite phone, which he used to speak to his wife several times a day. By the morning of the 27th he was camped on a small ledge around 1000m below the summit, and told his wife that he would try to reach the top that day. He was never heard from again. Alone on the mountain in winter, with no climbers in the world sufficiently acclimatised to reach his high camp, there was no possibility of a rescue attempt. His base camp team gave up hope of him returning alive after he had been missing for a week, and a later helicopter flight over the mountain failed to find any sign of him. His body has not been found and his exact fate is unknown. He left his wife, Katia, and two children.\n\n10. \"No Short Cuts to the Top\", by Ed Viesturs with David Roberts (Broadway Books, 2006), p.223-248. Description of Annapurna Expedition led by Ed Viesturs, April - May 2002. Viesturs abandoned the climb on the long east ridge, while J.C. continued and summited on May 16, 2002. An exploit labeled by himself as \"the hardest thing he'd ever done in life\", and by Viesturs \"one of the most remarkable ascents of modern times.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "49838867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49838867", "title": "Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law", "text": "Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law\n\nThe Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law is a bimonthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering health policy and health law as they relate to politics. It was established in 1976 and is published by Duke University Press. The editor-in-chief is Eric M. Patashnik (Brown University). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal had a 2014 impact factor of 1.373.\n"}
{"id": "8974708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8974708", "title": "Katharine Felton", "text": "Katharine Felton\n\nKatharine Conway \"Kitty\" Felton (1873–1940) was a head of Associated Charities in San Francisco at the turn of the 20th century. \n\nFelton was born in Oakland, California, on July 7, 1873, the daughter of a prominent San Francisco Bay Area family. Her father John Brooks Felton, was a judge and mayor of Oakland and has the Santa Cruz County town of Felton, California named for him. She was called \"the conscience of the city\" because of her dedication to social work according to History of FSA by Dan Kelly, Director of Planning for the Human Services Agency of San Francisco.\n\nIn 1901, at the age of 28, Felton was appointed director of Associated Charities (now the Felton Institute--formerly the Family Service Agency of San Francisco).\n\nIn the crucible of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire, she became the head of the social service efforts to restore the life of the people of the city and developed innovative solutions that are common practice today. She created the first employment agency in the United States, developed mental health counseling to deal with the traumatized, became an advocate for foster care, and by combining private and public funds made it possible for widowed and single mothers to remain at home with their children. She also was responsible for emptying the refugee camps and finding placements for the dispossessed, all of which she accomplished within one year. These innovations became known as the \"San Francisco Model\" by 1907. \n\nFelton drafted nearly all of the State's early legislation covering welfare and relief according to the Proceedings of the National Conference of Social Work, Volume 13, 1901. \nIn 1928, with the help of her friend architect Bernard Maybeck, she built what is today the office building of Family Service Agency at 1010 Gough Street in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2006, the Felton Institute for Excellence in Clinical Training was named for Kitty Felton.\n"}
{"id": "47803810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47803810", "title": "Lakeside Healthcare", "text": "Lakeside Healthcare\n\nLakeside Healthcare Group based in Corby, Northamptonshire is the biggest General practice in the National Health Service with 62 partners and more than 100,000 patients.\n\nThe original practice, Lakeside Surgery, was one of the largest GP partnerships in England with 47,000 registered patients in 2014, the majority of Corby Clinical Commissioning Group's population, and 22 doctors. The practice managing partner Linda Ward joined as practice manager in 1988 and became managing partner, one of the first non-clinical partners in the country. She helped develop and open Corby Urgent Care Centre (later run by separate business 'Lakeside Plus Limited', see below). She retired in July 2014. Professor Robert Harris, former national Director of Strategy at NHS England and NHS National Commissioning Board, was appointed a full-time equity partner of Lakeside Surgeries in July 2014 with a remit to design and roll out its new models of care across a bigger geography. (see MCP below) \n\nLakeside Healthcare Group has been appointed by NHS England as one of only 14 Multispecialty Community Providers (MCPs) across the NHS created by the Five Year Forward View which was published in 2014. Its intention is to enlarge the scope of general practice into hospitals, urgent care centres and ambulatory care, employing salaried doctors as well as other healthcare professionals - pharmacists, physician associates and healthcare assistants as well as different grades of nurses. It will manage some short-stay community care beds and deliver some services in the community which are now operated in hospital outpatient clinics. The strategic plan of Lakeside Healthcare Group is to be the provider of the majority of care needed by Lakeside patients and also a specialist provider of other services (e.g.urology, ophthalmology, dermatology and several other services) to a wider group of patients.\n\nIt describes itself as a \"super-practice\" and claims to be offering doctors “well above” the average pay for salaried GPs.\n\nThe new group was formed in July 2015 by the merger of Lakeside Surgeries with Headlands Surgery, Kettering. Initially other local practices that did not fulfill the requirements for full merger were offered 'affiliate' status. However, the preferred operating model is for practices to become fully integrated, sharing a common IT platform, workforce, clinical protocols and corporate governance. St Mary’s Medical Centre, Sheepmarket Surgery and the Little Surgery in Stamford and Oundle Medical Practice agreed to join the organisation in September 2015 In July 2017, Rushden Medical Centre merged with Lakeside Healthcare Group bringing a further 11,000 patients and 4 further partners.\n\nThe work of the organisation has been welcomed by Jeremy Hunt who was quoted as saying ‘By integrating services and moving more care closer to people’s homes, we can ensure efficient spending and prevent unnecessary trips to hospital for the frail elderly and people with long-term conditions.’\n\nDr. Peter Wilczynski, formerly chair of Corby Clinical Commissioning Group resigned from that position to become Chair with Prof. Robert Harris becoming Chief Executive Officer of the expanded Lakeside Healthcare Group. The organisation plans to cover 300,000 patients eventually across the East Midlands region.\n\nThe practice applied to move its membership from Corby CCG (where it had 2/3 of the registered population) to Nene CCG in 2015. This plan was not approved because the membership transfer would according to Corby CCG board minutes have destablised that CCG.\n\nLakeside Plus Limited, which is an entirely separately business to Lakeside Healthcare Group with independent management, was appointed by the three Leicestershire CCGs and University Hospitals Leicester to manage and run a \"front door\" service for the A&E Department at the Leicester Royal Infirmary (LRI) site University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust. The intention is that where patients can use other services, such as primary care, they are directed to them. LRI is acknowledged to be the busiest A&E department in the country seeing on average over 725 attending patients every day. Lakeside Plus Limited clinicians however already treat well over 200 urgent care patients in every 12-hour shift (pro rated to over 400 patients in a 24-hour period) at the Lakeside Plus flagship Urgent Care Centre in Corby (building owned by Lakeside Healthcare Group hence the shared name) thus making them busier than most hospital A&E departments. Lakeside Plus Limited clinicians had previously been invited into the A&E department of Peterborough & Stamford Hospitals Foundation Trust (December 2014) to assist the trust in coping with winter A&E pressures.\n\nIn August 2017 an independent hearing determined that Corby Clinical Commissioning Group had wrongly failed to pay the national NHS tariff rate for services provided since April 2014 and ordered it to increase the rate it was paying for activity by at least 25% and to backdate the increase to 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "3738219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3738219", "title": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1401 to 1500", "text": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1401 to 1500\n\nThis is a list of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1401 to 1500 adopted between 28 March 2002 and 14 August 2003.\n"}
{"id": "30512909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30512909", "title": "Mayo Foundation for Medical Education &amp; Research v. United States", "text": "Mayo Foundation for Medical Education &amp; Research v. United States\n\nMayo Foundation v. United States, 562 U.S. 44 (2011), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court upheld a Treasury Department regulation on the grounds that the courts should defer to government agencies in tax cases in absence of an unreasonable decision on the part of the agency.\n\nUnder the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), students and their educational employers are exempted from paying Social Security taxes. The Treasury Department issued a regulation in 2004, declaring those who worked more than 40 hours a week were ineligible for such an exemption. The Mayo Foundation filed suit to challenge the regulation and for a refund of the taxes it had paid on its medical residents—recently graduated physicians who work more than full-time providing patient care, but who are still considered trainees by the medical profession. The District Court ruled for the Mayo Foundation and struck the regulation, but was reversed by the Court of Appeals.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled unanimously to uphold the regulation as within the Treasury Department's statutory authority to issue and as a reasonable construction of FICA. The Court clarified that the deferential standard of \"Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.\" (1984) applied, notwithstanding prior Court rulings that had adopted a more stringent standard to tax regulations. Applying \"Chevron\", the Court first found that Congress had left the matter to the agency because the statute was silent on the definition of \"student\" and its applicability to medical residents specifically. Second, the Court found that the regulation was a reasonable interpretation of the statute, and that its clear line helped distinguish workers who study and students who work, simplified enforcement, and furthered the broad coverage of Social Security.\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, the vast majority of medical residents in the United States were physicians who had recently graduated from a medical school in the United States. While graduating from a medical school provides an individual with a medical degree, a state medical license is required to practice medicine. All states require that an individual pass Step 3 of the USMLE or COMLEX exams and complete at least one year of residency training to obtain an unrestricted medical license; in practice, most practicing physicians complete their multiyear residency. While training, residents practice medicine with considerable autonomy under the supervision of attending physicians.\n\nMedical residencies traditionally require lengthy hours of their trainees. Residents in the past had literally resided in hospitals for the duration of their training. By 2010, when the case was argued before the Supreme Court, regulations from the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and the American Osteopathic Association had limited work hours to about 80 hours per week, and a first-year resident at the Mayo Clinic made $47,259 plus benefits.\n\nIn 1935, the United States Congress passed the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), which imposed a payroll tax on workers. The revenues of the tax were meant to be used to finance Social Security. An amendment to the Act, passed four years later, provided that a \"service performed in the employ of... a school, college, or university... if such service is performed by a student enrolled in and regularly attending classes at such school, college, or university\" would be exempt. First-year residents, or interns, were also specifically exempted. In 1965, Congress repealed the intern exemption but left the student exemption in place.\n\nUntil the 1990s, the Act and its application to medical residents were not an issue. Many hospitals assessed and paid FICA taxes on behalf of their employees. The University of Minnesota's hospitals did not, however, and in the early 1990s, the Social Security Administration sued to recover a small portion of those taxes. An initial administrative review ruled for the Social Security Administration, but the district court reversed. The Eighth Circuit affirmed the district court's decision after granting a \"de novo\" review, and the University recovered $40 million. A number of other residency programs quickly filed lawsuits, attempting to recoup the taxes they had paid. After some of those programs were successful in other circuit courts, the Treasury agreed to repay the taxes it had collected. However, it also promulgated a new regulation to take effect in April 2005 that stated that any full-time employee, which includes nearly all medical residents, were ineligible to receive the student exemption, clearly stating that it was doing so to \"overturn court rulings that had upheld the view that residents remained students\".\n\nThe Mayo Clinic and the University of Minnesota sued in federal court to overturn those regulations. The district courts agreed with them, but upon appeal, the Eighth Circuit consolidated the two cases into one and reversed the judgments, remanding the cases for entry of judgments in favor of the United States. This decision was at odds with decisions from the Second, Sixth, Seventh, and Eleventh Circuits, which had all previously ruled that residents may count as students for the purpose of FICA taxes. The Eighth Circuit's ruling created a circuit split, and on appeal, the Supreme Court agreed to hear the case.\n\nMayo and Minnesota, supported by amicus briefs from a number of residency programs and medical organizations, argued that a residency is primarily educational in nature. They asserted that a residency is generally chosen based on academic criteria and that a residency must be completed in order for a physician to be licensed to practice medicine. They also argued that residency training involves not only supervised work, but also an educational curriculum, conferences, and lectures, much like clinical years of medical school. Mayo's attorney, former Bush Administration Solicitor General Theodore Olson, also argued that the rule was \"arbitrary\", as the tax would apply to a resident working 40 hours per week but not to a resident working only 39 hours per week. The medical schools proposed that the IRS should base their determination on the primary purpose of a program—providing an education versus providing a livelihood.\n\nIn response, Assistant to the Solicitor General Matthew D. Roberts argued on behalf of the United States that patient care and not educational curricula occupies the vast majority of residents' time. He also argued that although the 1939 FICA Amendment had originally specifically exempted interns, residents who had not yet obtained their unrestricted medical license, that exemption was removed in 1965 to allow doctors to begin paying into Social Security earlier so that they could be eligible for certain benefits.\n\nDuring oral arguments, Chief Justice John Roberts noted that the case was a \"very familiar situation of an apprentice who is both an employee and a student,\" and that the only way that one could draw a line between the two \"is to have somebody say: This is going to be the line.\" He was of the opinion that if anyone should draw the line, the Internal Revenue Service should be the one. Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor, on the other hand, felt that residents were employees, as evidenced by her statement \"You don't think receiving $50,000 or $60,000 a year is enough to make you an employee of someone?\" According to \"The Wall Street Journal\", Associate Justice Samuel Alito appeared to be more favorable to the medical schools, asking the Justice Department's lawyer at one point \"in general, why do medical students become residents? Are they enrolled in the program to make money...or do they want additional education?\"\n\nIn a decision written by Chief Justice Roberts, the Supreme Court unanimously upheld the Eighth Circuit's decision. Associate Justice Elena Kagan recused herself from participating in the case, as she had signed the government's brief during her tenure as Solicitor General of the United States. Declining to review using a standard set out in \"National Muffler Dealers Assn., Inc. v. United States\" (1979), the Court instead used a standard set out in \"Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.\" (1984). \"Chevron\", a landmark case regarding deference to government agencies, instituted a two-part test: The job of the reviewing court is to first establish whether Congress has unambiguously spoken about the matter. If so, the court is to follow Congress' intent. If not, it is the job of the court to determine whether the agency's statutory interpretation was a reasonable one. \"National Muffler\", on the other hand, requires that reviewing courts take into account \"whether the regulation harmonizes with the plain language of the statute, its origin, and its purpose\" and states that courts may examine a statutory interpretation made years after the passage of the original act on the merits. The Mayo Foundation had requested that the Court rule according to the \"National Muffler\" standard, while the United States argued that the Court should use the \"Chevron\" standard, arguing that \"National Muffler\" had been superseded. The Court had in fact cited both cases in opinions since 1984, but agreed with the Government's position, stating that it would not be wise to \"carve out an approach to administrative review good for tax law only\".\n\nDespite the Mayo Foundation's arguments otherwise, the Court ruled that \"student\" was a sufficiently ambiguous term to state that Congress has specifically addressed the issue. The Court also noted that Congress in the past had specifically singled out medical residents when making exemptions available, which in the Court's eyes made the Mayo Foundation's arguments about unambiguity unreasonable. Therefore, according to \"Chevron\", the role of the courts should solely be to determine whether the Treasury Department made a reasonable decision—and the Court concluded that the Treasury did just that. In writing for the Court, Roberts stated that \"The [Treasury] department certainly did not act irrationally in concluding that these doctors – 'who work long hours, serve as high skilled professionals, and typically share some or all of the terms of employment of career employees' – are the kind of workers that Congress intended to both contribute and benefit from the Social Security system\".\n\nThe Mayo Clinic noted that it had been paying the taxes while the case was pending in the courts, so the 15-page opinion would not force them to pay back taxes. In March 2010, while the case was pending before the Supreme Court, the Treasury announced that it would not contest refund claims for taxes paid prior to the April 2005 regulation. It would however assess taxes on salaries paid after that date, which would cost residency programs a total of approximately $700 million annually, or $3,100 a year for a resident earning $50,000 a year (and equivalent amount for the resident's employer).\n\nAn article in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" noted that \"[r]esidents could find additional support in the Court's unambiguous holding for efforts to enforce other workplace rights, such as unemployment benefits (e.g., after hospital closure) or protection under the Family Medical Leave Act.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision to use \"Chevron\" as its test for reviewing the Treasury Department's decision for marked a departure from previous practice; the Court had the courts have previously given less deference to the Internal Revenue Service's statutory interpretations. According to an article in the \"Florida Tax Review\", the Court in doing so \"unambiguously overruled\" its previous decision in the \"National Muffler\" in favor of \"Chevron\", finding that an agency should have leeway in interpreting the statute in question, no matter when or how long ago the statute was placed in effect, how consistent the agency was in interpreting the statute, the importance of the statute or how closely Congress has looked into the agency's decision. However, an article in the \"George Washington Law Review\" which advocates for the use of the \"National Muffler\" standard in reviewing retroactive tax regulations () states that \"National Muffler\" may not have been entirely overruled, arguing that the Court implied that \"Chevron\" test is only to be used in \"complex questions of statutory interpretation\" and that the Court left open the possibility that a future scenario may warrant the use of the \"National Muffler\" test instead of the \"Chevron\" test.\n\nThe Court also overruled \"Rowan Cos. v. United States\" (1981), and \"United States v. Vogel Fertilizer Co.\" (1982), stating that the \"Chevron\" test does not depend on whether Congress intended to delegate out general authority over a matter or just specific authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "54186989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54186989", "title": "Mazer Cup", "text": "Mazer Cup\n\nMazer Cup or The Mazer Cup International Mead Competition, has been described as \"the largest commercial and amateur mead competition in the world\", as it is composed of two events - one for commercial companies and one for amateur brewers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "591031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=591031", "title": "Men who have sex with men", "text": "Men who have sex with men\n\nMen who have sex with men (MSM), also known as males who have sex with males, are male persons who engage in sexual activity with members of the same sex, regardless of how they identify themselves; many such men do not sexually identify as gay, homosexual or bisexual.\n\nThe term \"MSM\" was created in the 1990s by epidemiologists to study the spread of disease among men who have sex with men, regardless of identity. The term \"MSM\" is often used in medical literature and social research to describe such men as a group for research studies without considering issues of self-identification. It does not describe any specific sexual activity, and which activities are covered by the term depends on context.\n\nThe term \"MSM\" had been in use in public health discussions, especially in the context of HIV/AIDS, since 1990 or earlier, but the coining of the initialism by Glick \"et al.\" in 1994 \"signaled the crystallization of a new concept.\" This behavioral concept comes from two distinct academic perspectives. First, it was pursued by epidemiologists seeking behavioral categories that would offer better analytical concepts for the study of disease-risk than identity-based categories (such as \"gay\", \"bisexual\", or \"straight\"), because a man who self-identifies as gay or bisexual is not necessarily sexually active with men, and someone who identifies as straight might be sexually active with men. Second, its usage is tied to criticism of sexual identity terms prevalent in social construction literature which typically rejected the use of identity-based concepts across cultural and historical contexts. \"The Huffington Post\" postulates that the term \"MSM\" was created by Cleo Manago, the man who is also credited for coining the term \"same gender loving\" (SGL).\n\nMSM are not limited to small, self-identified, and visible sub-populations. \"MSM\" and \"gay\" refer to different things: behaviors and social identities. \"MSM\" refers to sexual activities between men, regardless of how they identify, whereas \"gay\" can include those activities but is more broadly seen as a cultural identity. \"Homosexuality\" refers to sexual/romantic attraction between members of the same sex and may or may not include romantic relationships. \"Gay\" is a social identity and is generally the preferred social term, whereas \"homosexual\" is used in formal contexts, though the terms are not entirely interchangeable. Men who are non-heterosexual or questioning may identify with all, none, a combination of these, or one of the newer terms indicating a similar sexual, romantic, and cultural identity like \"bi-curious\".\n\nIn their assessment of the knowledge about the sexual networks and behaviors of MSM in Asia, Dowsett, Grierson and McNally concluded that the category of MSM does not correspond to a single social identity in any of the countries they studied. There were no similar traits in all of the MSM population studied, other than them being males and engaging in sex with other men.\n\nIn some countries, homosexual relationships may be illegal or taboo, making MSM difficult to reach.\n\nThe term's precise use and definition has varied with regard to trans women, people born either biologically male or with ambiguous genitalia who self-identify as female. Some sources consider trans women who have sex with men to be MSM, others consider women who are trans \"alongside\" MSM, and others are internally inconsistent (defining transgender women to be MSM in one place but referring to \"MSM and transgender\" in another).\n\nDetermining the number of men who have ever had sex with another man is difficult. Worldwide, at least 3% of men, and perhaps as high as 16% of men, have had sex at least once with a man. These figures include victims of sexual abuse in addition to men who regularly or voluntarily have sex with men.\n\nIn the U.S., among men aged 15 to 44, an estimated 6% have engaged in oral or anal sex with another man at some point in their lives, and about 2.9% have had at least one male sexual partner in the previous 12 months.\n\nHistorically, anal sex has been popularly associated with male homosexuality and MSM. However, many MSM do not engage in anal sex, and may engage in oral sex, frotting or mutual masturbation instead. Among men who have anal sex with other men, the insertive partner may be referred to as the \"top\", the one being penetrated may be referred to as the \"bottom\", and those who enjoy either role may be referred to as \"versatile\".\n\nSince LGBT people began to organize for their social and legal rights, access to equal health care has remained an important but often not primary issue. LGBT-specific health organizations have been formed, including charities educating on specific issues, health clinics, and even professional organizations for LGBT people and their allies. Many of them have advocated for specific changes to various governmental practices, and the ongoing effort to legalize same-sex marriage often includes examples of LGBT people unable to secure health coverage equivalent to that of their heterosexual counterparts. The United States Department of Health and Human Services announced in 2012 that the Affordable Care Act (ACA) would offer new protections, including a ban on insurers discriminating against LGBT persons. The ACA also provided funding for community-based preventive health programs and measures to combat HIV-related health disparities.\n\nSince medical literature began to describe homosexuality, it has often been approached from a view that assumed or sought to find an inherent psychopathology as the root cause. Much literature on mental health and homosexuals centered on examples of their depression, substance abuse, and suicide. Although these issues exist among non-heterosexuals, discussion about their causes shifted after homosexuality was removed from the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM) in 1973. Instead, social ostracism, legal discrimination, internalization of negative stereotypes, and limited support structures were regarded as indications of the issues faced by homosexuals in Western societies in the late 20th century, which often adversely affected their mental health. Even in a country with a tolerant climate regarding homosexuality such as Sweden, same-sex married individuals evidence a higher risk for suicide — almost three times higher, than other married individuals.\n\nA 2007 study reported that two large population surveys found \"the majority of gay men had similar numbers of unprotected sexual partners annually as straight men and women.\" Among men who have anal sex with other men, anal sex without use of a condom is considered to be very risky behavior. A person who inserts their penis into an infected partner is at risk because sexually transmitted diseases (STDS/STIs) can enter through the urethra or through small cuts, abrasions, or open sores on the penis. Also, condoms are more likely to break during anal sex than during vaginal sex. Thus, even with a condom, anal sex can be risky.\n\nAcquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a disease of the human immune system caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). HIV can infect anybody, regardless of sex, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. Worldwide, an estimated 5–10% of HIV infections are the result of men having sex with men. However, in many developed countries, more HIV infections are transmitted by men having sex with men than by any other transmission route. In the United States, \"men who have had sex with men since 1977 have an HIV prevalence (the total number of cases of a disease that are present in a population at a specific point in time) 60 times higher than the general population\".\n\nIn 2007, the largest estimated proportion of HIV/AIDS diagnoses among adults and adolescents in the U.S. were men who have sex with men (MSM). While this category is only 2% of the U.S. population they accounted for 53% of the overall diagnoses and 71% among men. According to a 2010 federal study, one in five men who have sex with men are HIV positive and nearly half don't realize it.\n\nAccording to a CDC study, HIV prevalence in the MSM population of the U.S. varies widely by ethnicity. \"As many as 46% of black MSM have HIV\" while \"the HIV rate is estimated at 21% for white MSM and 17% for Hispanic MSM.\" In the United States from 2001–2005, the highest transmission risk behaviors were sex between men (40–49% of new cases) and high risk heterosexual sex (32–35% of new cases). HIV infection is increasing at a rate of 12% annually among 13–24-year-old American men who have sex with men. Experts attribute this to \"AIDS fatigue\" among younger people who have no memory of the worst phase of the epidemic in the 1980s and early 1990s, as well as \"condom fatigue\" among those who have grown tired of and disillusioned with the unrelenting safer sex message. The increase may also be because of new treatments. In developing countries, HIV infection rates have been characterized as skyrocketing among MSM. Studies have found that less than 5% of MSM in Africa, Asia, and Latin America have access to HIV-related health care.\n\nHepatitis B is a disease caused by hepatitis B virus (HBV) which infects the liver of hominoidea, including humans, and causes an inflammation called hepatitis. The disease has caused epidemics in parts of Asia and Africa, and it is endemic in China. About a third of the world's population, more than 2 billion people, have been infected with HBV. Transmission of HBV results from exposure to infectious blood or body fluids containing blood. Possible forms of transmission include (but are not limited to) unprotected sexual contact, blood transfusions, re-use of contaminated needles and syringes, and vertical transmission from mother to child during childbirth. HBV can also be transmitted between family members within households, possibly by contact of non-intact skin or mucous membrane with secretions or saliva containing the virus. However, at least 30% of reported hepatitis B cases among adults cannot be associated with an identifiable risk factor.\n\nSyphilis (caused by infection with \"Treponema pallidum\") is passed from person to person through direct contact with a syphilis sore; these occur mainly on the external genitals, or in the vagina, anus, or rectum. Sores also can occur on the lips and in the mouth. Transmission of the organism occurs during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. In 2006, 64% of the reported cases in the United States were among men who have sex with men. This is consistent with a rise in the incidence of syphilis among MSM in other developed nations, attributed by Australian and UK authors to increased rates of unprotected sex among MSM.\n\nGenital human papillomavirus (HPV) is a common virus that most sexually active people in the U.S. will have at some time in their lives. It is passed on through genital contact and is also found on areas that condoms do not cover. Most men who get HPV of any type never develop any symptoms or health problems. Some types of HPV can cause genital warts, penile cancer, or anal cancer. MSM and men with compromised immune systems are more likely than other men to develop anal cancer. The incidence of anal cancer among HIV‐positive MSM is 9 times higher than among HIV‐negative MSM, even in antiretroviral therapy. HIV-negative MSM has a higher incidence than the general population. Men with HIV are also more likely to get severe cases of genital warts that are hard to treat.\n\nThough not commonly classified as an STI, giardiasis can be transmitted between gay men, and it can be responsible for severe weight loss and death for individuals who have compromised immune systems, especially HIV.\n\nUnprotected anal sex is a risk factor for formation of antisperm antibodies (ASA) in the recipient. In some people, ASA may cause autoimmune infertility.\n\nMany countries impose restricting on donating blood for men who have (had) sex with men, as well as their female sex partners—see the maps. Most national standards require direct questioning regarding a donor's sexual history, but the length of deferral varies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20089405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20089405", "title": "Metabolic advantage", "text": "Metabolic advantage\n\nMetabolic advantage is a term used in nutrition to describe the ability of a diet to achieve greater weight loss (or less weight gain) than another diet of equivalent calories. It is a claimed effect of low-carbohydrate diets and was popularised by the Atkins diet, but although several mechanisms exist to make it biologically plausible, it has yet to be definitively demonstrated as a significant factor in weight control. Some studies that have specifically measured the changes in basal metabolic rate under isocaloric very high-fat and very high-carbohydrate diets have failed to find any statistically significant differences.\n\nThe human body obtains the majority of its energy through the citric acid cycle, which can use any of the macronutrients to generate adenosine triphosphate (ATP) used to transport chemical energy within cells. The chemical processes involved use energy themselves, so variations in the efficiency of these processes will have the same effect as variations in caloric intake.\n\nThe human body requires glucose for the brain and nervous system, and a diet that has very few or no dietary carbohydrates forces it to generate this glucose from protein through gluconeogenesis, with an efficiency of approximately 57% (protein and carbohydrate are approximately equal in calorific value; each has about four kilocalories per gram, but gluconeogenesis can produce only 57g of glucose from 100g of protein). This could be a significant contributor to metabolic advantage.\n\n"}
{"id": "6227706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6227706", "title": "National Prostate Health Month", "text": "National Prostate Health Month\n\nNational Prostate Health Month (NPHM) is observed every September in North America by health experts, health advocates, and individuals concerned with men’s prostate health. Designating a month for the issue serves the purpose of:\nSeptember was first designated National Prostate Health Month by the American Foundation for Urological Disease (AFUD) in 1999. AFUD is now known as the Urology Care Foundation. Originally the aims of observing NPHM were more proscribed, concentrating on making the public better informed about prostate health issues\n\nIn 2001, Senate Resolution 138 sponsored by Sen. Conrad Burns (R-MT) endorsed the week and affirmed that Prostate Health Month would be observed annually. In a 2003 presidential proclamation, President George W. Bush voiced his support for the month, but instead of designating the month to be for prostate health in general, specifically named the month “National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month.”\n\nIn 1989, decade before the creation of National Prostate Health Month, the week of September 17 to September 24 was chosen as Prostate Cancer Awareness Week. After the creation of NPHM, September came to incorporate observances of other related health weeks. Prostatitis Awareness Week is observed from September 10 to September 16 and Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy (BPH) Awareness Week is observed from September 24 to September 30. However, not all men’s health issues are commemorated in September. Testicular Cancer Awareness Week, for example, is celebrated during the week of April 1 to April 7.\n\n\nOncology funds, health systems, medical centers and NGOs, such as Men’s Health Network, are just a few of the US organizations that sponsor events during National Prostate Health Month. Free screenings for prostate-related diseases are offered at hospitals, health centers, and the workplace. Physicians are sent information on how NPHW can be used as a way to remind their patients about prostate health. The Prostate Cancer Education Council uses the popularity of sports to spread awareness of prostate health effects and resources. For example, NFL teams dedicate home games to prostate cancer awareness, and golf tournaments and 5k races distribute informational material to audiences and participants in exchange for the incentive of prizes.\n\nMen's Health Network maintains the Prostate Health Month website at http://www.prostatehealthmonth.com and the Prostate Cancer Awareness Month website at http://prostatecancerawarenessmonth.com which lists links to organizations that are actively promoting events and prostate cancer education during that month.\n\n"}
{"id": "52138578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52138578", "title": "Nekrep Case", "text": "Nekrep Case\n\nThe Nekrep Case was a court trial that followed the death of a 12-year-old boy, Bor Nekrep, due to a misdiagnosis in Slovenia in March 2008. The treating pediatrician misdiagnosed an inborn defect of the urea cycle (a very rare genetic condition). After the boy had been brought by his parents to the Paediatric Clinic in Maribor, the doctor, among other things, measured the level of ammonia in his blood and on the basis of a significantly increased level erroneously diagnosed Reye syndrome. Because of the misdiagnosis and a delay in appropriate treatment, the boy developed cerebral oedema and died eight days later.\n\nBefore admission to the Maribor paediatric department, the boy was mainly healthy, as confirmed by parents and proved with his school report, except for a \"cold\". However, he worsened despite taking antibiotics. He was admitted to the emergency department of the Pediatric Clinic in Maribor at 18:00. In an interview published in April 2009, the doctor treating him said that after she had obtained the results of the ordered laboratory tests, among them the level of ammonia, she diagnosed Reye syndrome on the basis of \"Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics\", and began to treat him. In the morning, after a consultation, the doctors there called the colleagues at the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana and ordered his transport there. The treating physician did not directly communicate with Ljubljana.\n\nThe boy's father stated at a press conference in November 2008 that the doctors in Maribor had not discovered the elevation of ammonia. According to him, the next morning they received precise instructions for treatment by the doctors of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, but did not implement them. They transported the boy, who had lost consciousness during the night, to Ljubljana with a \"tourist transport\". The boy's mother said that upon arrival at the Ljubljana hospital, the doctors there lowered his ammonia level \"only with glucose and salt to a harmless level\".\n\nAs confirmed at the trial in September 2011 by the endocrinologist, who admitted the boy to the endocrinology department in Ljubljana, the boy was unconscious when he arrived. This surprised him, because the Maribor pediatricians told him that his condition had improved. The laboratory tests that he ordered showed a significantly increased level of ammonia. The intern who accompanied the boy during the transport to Ljubljana said that he had already been unconscious in Maribor. The transport took about an hour and a half. The emergency medical service team said that the transport was not urgent and that the transporting van was not equipped for urgent situations. This was also evident from the documentation.\n\nAccording to the board for professional and ethical issues at the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the treatment was appropriate until the receipt of the laboratory results showing the increase of the level of ammonia. Due to the misdiagnosis, additional necessary treatment was begun only in the morning. They noted that the boy should have been transferred to Ljubljana immediately upon the receipt of the laboratory results. According to them, the doctor who ordered the transport to Ljubljana refrained from administering glucose due to an already increased level of blood glucose. They also noted that it was not possible to say whether the boy would have survived with appropriate treatment.\n\nAn internal audit was held and the parents sued the doctor. In October 2011, the competent judge found her guilty of negligent treatment. She received a suspended sentence of ten months in prison with a two-year probation. The court established that the correct way of acting would have been to immediately transfer the boy to the endocrinology department of the University Medical Centre in Ljubljana. The Medical Chamber of Slovenia stripped the doctor of her license for four months.\n\nLater, the prosecutor also filed a criminal charge against the president of the internal audit commission for perjury. He claimed that the commission's president had witnessed differently in the criminal investigation than at the trial and that the diagnosis of Reye syndrome did not occur either in the patient's documentation or in the records of the internal audit. The commission's president witnessed at the trial against the doctor that the doctor had mentioned Reye's syndrome to the commission. At the trial, the doctor defended herself with the claim that she did not prescribe the correct therapy because she diagnosed this syndrome. In February 2015, the commission's president was, on the basis of numerous witnesses who all confirmed the president's words, found not guilty. After the prosecutor's appeal, this was reconfirmed by the competent high court in March 2016.\n"}
{"id": "461036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461036", "title": "Occupational Safety and Health Act (United States)", "text": "Occupational Safety and Health Act (United States)\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 is a US labor law governing the federal law of occupational health and safety in the private sector and federal government in the United States. It was enacted by Congress in 1970 and was signed by President Richard Nixon on December 29, 1970. Its main goal is to ensure that employers provide employees with an environment free from recognized hazards, such as exposure to toxic chemicals, excessive noise levels, mechanical dangers, heat or cold stress, or unsanitary conditions. The Act created the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).\n\nThe Act can be found in the United States Code at title 29, chapter 15.\n\nEfforts by the federal government to ensure workplace health and safety were minimal until the passage of OSHA. The American system of mass production encouraged the use of machinery, while the statutory regime did nothing to protect workplace safety. For most employers, it was cheaper to replace a dead or injured worker than it was to introduce safety measures. Tort law provided little recourse for relief for the survivors of dead workers or for injured employees. After the Civil War, some improvements were made through the establishment of state railroad and factory commissions, the adoption of new technology (such as the railway air brake), and more widespread availability of life insurance. But the overall impact of these improvements was minimal.\n\nThe first federal safety legislation was enacted in the Progressive period. In 1893, Congress passed the Safety Appliance Act, the first federal statute to require safety equipment in the workplace (the law applied only to railroad equipment, however). In 1910, in response to a series of highly publicized and deadly mine explosions and collapses, Congress established the United States Bureau of Mines to conduct research into mine safety (although the Bureau had no authority to regulate mine safety). Backed by trade unions, many states also enacted workers' compensation laws which discouraged employers from permitting unsafe workplaces. These laws, as well as the growing power of labor unions and public anger toward poor workplace safety, led to significant reductions in worker accidents for a time.\n\nIndustrial production increased significantly in the United States during World War II, and industrial accidents soared. Winning the war took precedence over safety, and most labor unions were more concerned with maintaining wages in the face of severe inflation than with workplace health and safety. After the war ended, however, workplace accident rates remained high and began to rise. In the two years preceding OSHA's enactment, 14,000 workers died each year from workplace hazards, and another 2 million were disabled or harmed. Additionally, the \"chemical revolution\" introduced a vast array of new chemical compounds to the manufacturing environment. The health effects of these chemicals were poorly understood, and workers received few protections against prolonged or high levels of exposure. While a few states, such as California and New York, had enacted workplace safety as well as workplace health legislation, most states had not changed their workplace protection laws since the turn of the century.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, growing awareness of the environmental impact of many chemicals had led to a politically powerful environmental movement. Some labor leaders seized on the public's growing unease over chemicals in the environment, arguing that the effect of these compounds on worker health was even worse than the low-level exposure plants and animals received in the wild. On January 23, 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson submitted a comprehensive occupational health and safety bill to Congress. Led by the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers, the legislation was widely opposed by business. Many labor leaders, including the leadership of the AFL-CIO, supported the legislation, including testifying in support at congressional hearings. The legislation died in committee.\n\nOn April 14, 1969, President Richard Nixon introduced two bills into Congress which would have also protected worker health and safety. The Nixon legislation was much less prescriptive than the Johnson bill, and workplace health and safety regulation would be advisory rather than mandatory. However, Representative James G. O'Hara and Senator Harrison A. Williams introduced a much stricter bill similar to the Johnson legislation of the year before.\n\nCompanion legislation introduced in the House also imposed an all-purpose \"general duty\" clause on the enforcing agency as well. With the stricter approach of the Democratic bill apparently favored by a majority of both chambers, and unions now strongly supporting a bill, Republicans introduced a new, competing bill. The compromise bill established the independent research and standard-setting board favored by Nixon, while creating a new enforcement agency. The compromise bill also gave the Department of Labor the power to litigate on the enforcement agency's behalf (as in the Democratic bill). In November 1970, both chambers acted: The House passed the Republican compromise bill, while the Senate passed the stricter Democratic bill (which now included the general duty clause).\n\nA conference committee considered the final bill in early December 1970. Union leaders pressured members of the conference committee to place the standard-setting function in the Department of Labor rather than an independent board. In return, unions agreed to let an independent review commission have veto power over enforcement actions. Unions also agreed to removal of a provision in the legislation which would have let the Secretary of Labor shut down plants or stop manufacturing procedures which put workers in \"imminent danger\" of harm. In exchange for a Republican proposal to establish an independent occupational health and safety research agency, Democrats won inclusion of the \"general duty\" clause and the right for union representatives to accompany a federal inspector during inspections. The conference committee bill passed both chambers on December 17, 1970, and President Nixon signed the bill on December 29, 1970. According to the \"New York Times\", labor and environment activist Tony Mazzocchi was a \"principal force behind the legislation\".\n\nThe Act went into effect on April 28, 1971 (now celebrated as Workers' Memorial Day by American labor unions).\n\nIn passing the Act, Congress declared its intent \"to assure so far as possible every working man and woman in the Nation safe and healthful working conditions and to preserve our human resources.\"\n\nThe Act created the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), an agency of the Department of Labor. OSHA was given the authority both to set and enforce workplace health and safety standards. The Act also created the independent Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission to review enforcement priorities, actions and cases.\n\nThe Act also established the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), an independent research institute in the then Department of Health, Education & Welfare now under-Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\nThe Act defines an employer to be any \"person engaged in a business affecting commerce who has employees, but does not include the United States or any state or political subdivision of a State.\" The Act applies to employers as diverse as manufacturers, construction companies, law firms, hospitals, charities, labor unions and private schools.\n\nChurches and other religious organizations are covered if they employ workers for secular purposes. The Act excludes the self-employed, family farms, workplaces covered by other federal laws (such as mining, nuclear weapons manufacture, railroads and airlines) and state and local governments (unless state law permits otherwise). The Act covers federal agencies and the United States Postal Service.\n\nSection 5 of the Act contains the \"general duty clause.\" The \"general duty clause\" requires employers to 1) Maintain conditions or adopt practices reasonably necessary and appropriate to protect workers on the job; 2) Be familiar with and comply with standards applicable to their establishments; and 3) Ensure that employees have and use personal protective equipment when required for safety and health. OSHA has established regulations for when it may act under the \"general duty clause.\" The four criteria are 1) There must be a hazard; 2) The hazard must be a recognized hazard (e.g., the employer knew or should have known about the hazard, the hazard is obvious, or the hazard is a recognized one within the industry); 3) The hazard could cause or is likely to cause serious harm or death; and 4) The hazard must be correctable (OSHA recognizes not all hazards are correctable).\n\nAlthough theoretically a powerful tool against workplace hazards, it is difficult to meet all four criteria. Therefore, OSHA has engaged in extensive regulatory rule-making to meet its obligations under the law.\n\nDue to the difficulty of the rule-making process (which is governed by the Administrative Procedures Act), OSHA has focused on basic mechanical and chemical hazards rather than procedures. Major areas which its standards currently cover are: Toxic substances, harmful physical agents, electrical hazards, fall hazards, hazards associated with trenches and digging, hazardous waste, infectious disease, fire and explosion dangers, dangerous atmospheres, machine hazards, and confined spaces.\n\nSection 8 of the Act covers reporting requirements. All employers must report to OSHA within eight hours if an employee dies from a work-related incident, or three or more employees are hospitalized as a result of a work-related incident. Additionally, all fatal on-the-job heart attacks must also be reported. Section 8 permits OSHA inspectors to enter, inspect and investigate, during regular working hours, any workplace covered by the Act. Employers must also communicate with employees about hazards in the workplace. By regulation, OSHA requires that employers keep a record of every non-consumer chemical product used in the workplace. Detailed technical bulletins called material safety data sheets (MSDSs) must be posted and available for employees to read and use to avoid chemical hazards. OSHA also requires employers to report on every injury or job-related illness requiring medical treatment (other than first aid) on OSHA Form 300, \"Log of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses\" (known as an \"OSHA Log\" or \"Form 300\"). An annual summary is also required and must be posted for three months, and records must be kept for at least five years.\n\nSection 11(c) of the Act prohibits any employer from discharging, retaliating or discriminating against any employee because the worker has exercised rights under the Act. These rights include complaining to OSHA and seeking an OSHA inspection, participating in an OSHA inspection, and participating or testifying in any proceeding related to an OSHA inspection.\n\nSection 18 of the Act permits and encourages states to adopt their own occupational safety and health plans, so long as the state standards and enforcement \"are or will be at least as effective in providing safe and healthful employment\" as the federal OSH Act. States that have such plans are known as \"OSHA States.\" As of 2007, 22 states and territories operated complete plans and four others had plans that covered only the public sector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58186729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58186729", "title": "Patricia Schiller", "text": "Patricia Schiller\n\nPatricia Schiller (October 27, 1913 - June 29, 2018) was an American lawyer, clinical psychologist and sex educator. She was a professor in the department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Howard University College of Medicine in Washington, DC for 30 years. \n\nPatricia Schiller was born Pearl Silverman in Brooklyn as the fourth of four children to Russian-Jewish immigrants. She attended Brooklyn Law School and received her JD in 1934. In the early 1940s she worked as a legal-aid attorney for the National Labor Relations Board.\n\nSchiller followed an interest in marriage counselling and in 1955 offered courses for the Legal Aid Society. She helped create the first public school in the U.S. for pregnant girls.\n\nIn 1960, she received a master's degree in clinical psychology from American University in Washington, DC.\nShe eventually convinced the Dean of Howard University College of Medicine in Washington, DC, to hire her at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.\n\nIn 1967, she founded the American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists (AASECT), which was the first U.S. accrediting organization for sex educators. She collaborated with William Masters and Virginia Johnson on guidelines and ethical standards for sexual counselors.\n\nIn 1943, she married lawyer Irving Schiller, then a first lieutenant in the Army, two years after they had met. They settled in Washington, and had two children, Louise and Jonathan. The couple had a home on Martha’s Vineyard where she socialised with influential women like Mrs. Robert McNamara, Mrs. W. Willard Wirtz, and Mrs. Arthur Goldberg. The couple moved to Florida permanently in 1990 and her husband died in 2007, while she outlived him another 11 years, becoming 104 years old. She died of hypertensive cardiovascular disease in Palm Beach Florida.\n\nSchiller published three books, \"Creative Approach to Sex Education and Counseling\", 1973, which was translated into Spanish and Italian, \"The Sex Profession: What Sex Therapy Can Do\", 1981 and \"Sex Questions Kids Ask: and How To Answer\" in 2009.\n\nIn 1970, she received the \"Advanced Pacesetter Award\" from the President’s National Advisory Board for founding Webster School, 1963 to 1967, the first U.S. school for pregnant girls which \"educated and nurtured them through their high school diplomas\". \n"}
{"id": "34172558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34172558", "title": "Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka to the United Nations\n\nThe Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka to the United Nations is Sri Lanka's foremost diplomatic representative to the United Nations, and in charge of the country's mission to the UN. The position of Permanent Representative is equivalent in rank to an Ambassador, and entitles them to use the style His/Her Excellency.\n\nThe current Permanent Representative is Aliyar Azeez.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31083722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31083722", "title": "Promotora", "text": "Promotora\n\nA promotora is a lay Hispanic/Latino community member who receives specialized training to provide basic health education in the community without being a professional health care worker. While most of their work entails educating target audiences about health issues affecting their community they also provide guidance in accessing community resources associated with health care. Often promotoras are residents and identified leaders in their community who work for community-based health promotion projects or as part of a research group. Thus, promotoras serve as liaisons between their community, health professionals, human and social service organizations. As liaisons, they often play the roles of an advocate, educator, mentor, outreach worker, role model, and interpreter.\n\nDepending on the organizations with which they work, promotoras may volunteer their time, draw a salary or receive a stipend. Promotoras have been predominantly volunteers if they assist only through delivery of educational material. However, since 2004 there has been a significant increase in the number of promotoras who are hired as staff and not only receive reimbursements for costs associated with their job (e.g., mileage reimbursement).\n\nTraditionally, promotoras have been Latino women. However, more men are entering the field and the gender-neutral term “promotores” is increasingly being used to be more inclusive.\n\nThe role of community health workers can be traced back to the 1940s in the People’s Republic of China, where Chairman Mao Zedong introduced barefoot doctors to provide medical treatment and education to rural villages within the country.\n\nThe use of promotoras began in 1973 in Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, where Salud y Desarrollo Comunitario de Cd. Juárez, A.C. (Health and Community Development of Juárez City), ran by the Federación Mexicana de Asociaciones Privadas (Mexican Federation of Private Associations [FEMAP]), developed the first promotora model to help provide medical care and education to marginalized communities in Juárez. From there, the promotora model spread across Mexico to other Latin American countries and eventually to the United States.\n\nWhile the promotora model was in use in Latin American countries since 1960, it did not gain attention in the United States until the mid-1960s to the 1970s. It was during those two decades that the United States federal government initiated a support campaign for the outreach to rural, marginalized, and hard-to-reach communities with the intention of improving access to care. Such model regained attention in the 1990s thanks to efforts from Centers for Disease Control and Health Resources and Services Administration.\n\nThe essence of using promotoras as means of health education dissemination to prevent disease has been used in countries in the continent of Africa for much longer than in the Americas. Third world countries with high mortality rates of preventable and infectious diseases adopted this model to outreach communities that had no access to decent health care. However, by definition, community health workers model used in other countries is somewhat different than the one of a promotora in the United States.\n\nPromotoras have gained significant importance in the way that care is delivered in the United States for Latinos in the last two decades. Latinos are the fastest growing ethnic group in the United States and one with some of the largest health disparities.\nCitizenship, language, and familiarity with the health care system are some of the most common barriers to access care for Latinos.\n\nThese barriers are clearly present for Latino immigrants to the United States, who are two to three times more likely than the rest of the population to be uninsured.\n\nThere is evidence that promotoras impact the health outcomes of Latinos via outreach and tracking. \nSince promotoras are often well-respected and community leaders, it is easier for them to communicate interventions with cultural sensitivity and experiential knowledge of community values, leading to faster rapport with program participants.\n\nAlthough promotoras are not professional health workers, they are often tasked with projects of similar stature and importance because areas where they work are often significantly underserved (e.g., case management, referral source). In some cases, promotoras are able to achieve similar results to health professionals at much lower cost, often because they lack credentials.\n\nThus, the use of promotoras to bridge the gap between community needs and health resources is perceived by researchers as one of the most viable solutions to meeting community health needs.\n\nResearch suggests that the areas of highest health care needs for Latinos in the United States are: \n\nAn enormous body of research across ethnic groups suggests that early screenings and preventive education reduces poor health outcomes and health expenditures. Studies have shown small and large scale benefits in preventive care for Latinos when promotoras are used as an agent of change. Since the leading causes of death in Latinos are mostly related to cardiovascular disease, there have been several studies (including randomized clinical trials) that show benefits in the use of promotoras to prevent heart disease and facilitate treatment adherence (W2. Promotoras have also shown to be promising results among farm workers with diabetes by aiding in the control of glycemic levels and increase social support. Similarly, there has been an effort to address the concern for home pesticide poisoning in the homes of farm working families. A pilot program using promotoras created a comic book to teach children about the risks of chronic pesticide exposure at the same time that they conducted family visits. This particular study showed an increase in knowledge but also one of behavior change to minimize pesticide exposures and poisonings.\n\nWhile promotoras are not required to go through extensive and official training they are trained to become health educators on a specific issue. Many promotoras get trained by professional health workers on content areas but are encouraged to develop a plan tailored for their specific community under the supervision of the same or a different health professional. Thus, there are not many entities that “train” promotoras on how to become one but on content specific curriculum. Vision y Compromiso is one of the few entities in Southern California that offers content specific trainings to promotoras.\n"}
{"id": "9007293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9007293", "title": "Secretariat of Health (Mexico)", "text": "Secretariat of Health (Mexico)\n\nThe Secretariat of Health (Spanish: \"Secretaría de Salud\")\nis the government department in charge of\nall social health services in Mexico.\nThe Secretary of Health is a member of the Executive Cabinet and is appointed at the discretion of the President of the Republic.\n\nIn the last years, the Secretariat has played a more restricted role, as many of its functions have been transferred to the corresponding bodies of the States.\n\nSalvador Zubirán National Institute of Health Sciences and Nutrition\n\n"}
{"id": "54798174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54798174", "title": "Soy formula", "text": "Soy formula\n\nSoy formula is a substitute for human breast milk. It is a commercial product based on the proteins found in soybeans. Soy infant formula uses processed soybeans as its source of protein, and comes in powdered or liquid form. Usually lactose-free, soy infant formula contains a different sugar. Infants who are intolerant of cows’ milk protein may also be intolerant of soy protein. It differs from human breast milk in a number of ways. Soy protein inhibits the absorption of iron. The soy-based formulas discussed by the World Health Organization reports that soy formula is fortified with iron to compensate for this effect. One naturally occurring plant-based compound found in soy-based infant formula is phytic acid. It is also a strong inhibitor of iron absorption, though it can be removed in processing. It is not known how many manufacturers of soy-based formula incorporate this practice. China and Vietnam have regulated soy-based infant formulas to include NaFeEDTA (sodium-feric ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) to fortify the formula and enhance the absorption of iron by the infant. When iron compounds are added to soy-based infant formula, the iron compound is encapsulated to prevent it from making the formula dark.\n\nGenetically modified ingredients may be present in soy-based infant formula. It may also be of lower nutritional value. Soy-based infant formula can have aluminum, phytates, and phytoestrogens (isoflavones) that might cause unanticipated effects. Other constituents are amino acids: such as taurine, methionine, and carnitine. Added minerals are phosphore, calcium, iron, and zinc. SIF also contains soy-isolate that supplies 95% of protein.\n\nBreastfeeding is still the best option for feeding infants. There are instances when breastfeeding is not possible and the use of formula is appropriate.\n\nIndications for the use of soy-based infant formula are galactosaemia and lactase deficiency. When a child develops an allergy to cows' milk, soy-based formula is used. SBF is less costly than other breast milk formula substitutes.\n\nPast reports of the effects of soy formula have suggested that a constituent of soy formula may affect reproductive functions. However, studies have shown that no correlation exists between the consumption of soy formula and abnormality in reproductive anatomy or function. Soy-based infant formula has been used for over the past 100 years. By late 1800s and the early 1900s, supplementation of breastfeeding with formula was acceptable. Soy-based formula was used as early as 1909.\n\nSoy-based infant formula is associated with allergies in infants. Chronic food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) has been observed in infants aged younger than three months who were fed with soy formula. France has taken soy-based infant formula off the market. Soy-base formula accounts for about 20% of the infant formula purchased in the US. In New Zealand formula use is around 10%, and in Belgium and the UK and about 5%.\n"}
{"id": "22005141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22005141", "title": "Speech banana", "text": "Speech banana\n\nThe speech banana is a region in which all the phonemes of the world's languages fall on an audiogram. An audiogram is a graphical representation of a person's hearing acuity at a range of frequencies and loudness levels, and it is generally charted with frequency level (in Hertz on the x-axis and decibel level (dB) on the y-axis. When the sounds of speech or phonemes of all known human languages are plotted on an audiogram, they cluster in a banana-shaped region known as the speech banana.\n\nPeople with normal hearing acuity can also hear sounds outside of the speech banana. These sounds include ambient natural sounds such as a rustling of leaves in the wind or birds chirping. Artificial sounds outside of the speech banana can include music and mechanical noises (e.g., automobiles, lawn mowers).\n\nAudiologists are primarily concerned with hearing loss that occurs within the speech banana because it can slow the development of a child’s language and speech abilities, and this in turn can profoundly interfere with learning. Hearing loss within the speech banana can also hinder communication capabilities in adults, as in elderly people with age-related hearing loss (presbycusis).\n\n"}
{"id": "3634708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634708", "title": "Taeko Nakanishi", "text": "Taeko Nakanishi\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40304800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40304800", "title": "Time-lapse embryo imaging", "text": "Time-lapse embryo imaging\n\nTime-lapse embryo imaging is an emerging non-invasive embryo selection technique used in reproductive biology. It is used to help select embryos with lower risk of defects and/or greater potential of implantation. The procedure involves taking thousands of pictures of the growing embryo in vitro during incubation to study morphology and morphokinetic parameters.\n\nThere is currently insufficient evidence of a difference in pregnancy rates, live-birth, stillbirth or miscarriage to choose been time-lapse embryo imaging or conventional embryo assessment in in-vitro fertilisation (IVF). Further trials are needed in order to determine whether time-lapse embryo imaging can impact on outcomes such as live-birth for couples undergoing IVF or ICSI.\n"}
{"id": "4775088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4775088", "title": "Tisleifjorden", "text": "Tisleifjorden\n\nTisleifjorden is a Norwegian lake which lies in Nord-Aurdal municipality in Oppland county, as well in Gol and Hemsedal municipalities in Buskerud county. Tisleifjorden is dammed for hydroelectric power. The height of the lake can vary up to 11 meters. It is in area and 32.53 km around. It has an elevation of 819 m above sea level. Tisleifjorden Dam creates a reservoir for the Åbjøra kraftverk hydro-electric power plant at Aurdalsfjord in Oppland. The power plant was built in the years 1949-1951 and was rebuilt in 2002. Åbjøra kraftverk is operated by Skagerak Energi. \n"}
{"id": "23318796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23318796", "title": "Tobacco MSA (New York)", "text": "Tobacco MSA (New York)\n\nThe Tobacco MSA with New York is the particular version of the Tobacco MSA that was signed in New York City, was enabled by means of legislation in New York State, and has been interpreted since then in New York State courts.\n\nIn 1997, the State, City, and the counties of New York filed suit against the country's major cigarette manufacturers. The action sought to recover damages related to the costs borne by these various political units of treating smoking-related illnesses and to impose restrictions on the cigarette manufacturers' sales, marketing, advertising, and disclosure practices. Similar actions were brought by 45 other states. These lawsuits were settled by execution of the MSA in November 1998. The settlement of the New York lawsuit was approved by the Supreme Court of New York in a consent decree signed on December 23, 1998.\n\nThe MSA was initially executed by the four dominant (alleged to account for 98% of cigarette sales at the time) cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris, Lorillard Tobacco, Brown & Williamson, and R.J. Reynolds (the \"Original Participating Manufacturers, or \"OPMs\"), and by forty-six states (including New York), the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands (the \"Settling States\"). Thirty-three additional, and smaller, tobacco companies (the \"Subsequent Participating Manufacturers\" (\"SPMs\"), or, together with the OPMs, the \"Participating Manufacturers (\"PMs\")) became parties to the MSA.\n\nIn general, the MSA imposes numerous restrictions and requirements in connection with the PMs' sales, marketing, advertising, lobbying, research, education, and disclosure practices. It also requires annual payments by the OPMs to the Settling States, and releases the PMs from future claims by the Settling States. Any non-participating cigarette manufacturer (\"Non-Participating Manufacturer,\" or \"NPM\") may become a SPM by signing the MSA and making the payments that would have been due had it been a signatory as of the MSA execution date.\n\nThe OPMs' overall annual payment obligation is specified in the MSA: The nationwide base payments begin at $4.5 billion for the year 2000 and gradually increase to $9 billion in the year 2018 and each year thereafter. This obligation is allocated among the OPMs in accordance with their relative market shares. Annual payments to the Settling States are to be adjusted according to changes in the overall volume of cigarette sales. A significant reduction in sales will therefore lead to a reduction in payments and state revenue.\n\nIn addition to the link between overall cigarette sales and payments to the Settling States noted above, there are provisions for changes in the payments required of particular companies due to changes in their market share. One such provision applies to market share losses by any OPM to other PMs. In general, an OPM losing market share pays less to the states; an OPM gaining market share pays more. Future payment obligations of SPMs—those arising after the initial payment made upon joining the MSA—occur only if a particular manufacturer's market share rises above the greater of (i) 100% of its 1998 market share, or (ii) 125% of its 1997 market share. Any future payments owed by SPMs are at a rate approximately equal to that paid by the OPMs.\n\nAnother provision governs the reduction of payments where market share is lost by an OPM to NPMs. This decrease is styled by the MSA as the \"Non-Participating Manufacturer Adjustment\" (the \"NPM Adjustment\") and reduces required payments if there are any losses of market share experienced by the OPMs as a result of \"disadvantages\" arising out of the MSA. One of the contemplated \"disadvantages\" is price competition from NPMs. Because the NPM Adjustment trebles the decrease in payment obligations when an OPM loses more than 2% due to a \"disadvantage,\" the loss of revenue to the Settling States from an NPM Adjustment is potentially substantial. If the OPM's market share loss exceeds 16⅔%, the decrease in payment obligations is somewhat less than the treble reduction for losses between 2% and 16⅔%.\n\nUnder the MSA, the Settling States do not have to sit idly by while their MSA tobacco revenue is reduced over time by competition from NPMs. A Settling State can immunize itself from downward NPM Adjustments by enacting and \"diligently enforcing\" a form \"Escrow Statute\" requiring any NPM either:\nAll of the Settling States have enacted Escrow Statutes.\n\nNew York enacted its Escrow Statute on November 27, 1999. The Statute provides that any tobacco product manufacturer selling cigarettes directly or indirectly to consumers within New York shall either become a PM under the MSA, or make escrow payments. Specifically, the statute requires that NPMs who sell cigarettes through a distributor, retailer, or similar intermediary place a per-pack fee into an escrow account that may be recovered by the NPM after twenty years if no obligation to the states has been incurred. The statute thus imposes a per-pack fee on NPM-manufactured cigarettes that adds to the resale price of the product. Although this fee does not expressly require the product to be sold at a particular price, the cost to NPMs of complying with the Escrow Statute is alleged to be higher than the cost to PMs of complying with the MSA.\n\nEffective December 28, 2001, New York passed the Contraband Statutes. In Governor Pataki's words, this legislation was needed to \"bolster the State's ability to diligently enforce\" the Escrow Statute, and thus to \"help protect the State from further [NPM] adjustments.\" To be sold lawfully in New York, cigarette packages need to bear a tax stamp affixed by a New York State cigarette tax stamp agent. The Contraband Statutes add the requirements of the Escrow Statute to the \"gatekeeper\" functions already played by tax stamp agents. The Statutes label as contraband any cigarettes made by manufacturers that do not comply with the Escrow Statute. The effect alleged is to impose something analogous to an in rem liability on the cigarettes themselves, rendering them subject to seizure and forfeiture, in contrast to the in personam liability imposed on NPMs by the Escrow Statutes. Twenty-four of the Settling States have passed Contraband Statutes.\n\nThe particulars of the Statutes are as follows. Section 480-b requires cigarette manufacturers to certify annually, to the New York State Commissioner of Taxation and Finance, the Attorney General of the State of New York, and the cigarette tax stamp agents (according to appellants, usually wholesalers 6 responsible for affixing New York State cigarette tax stamps on such manufacturer's cigarettes), that such manufacturer is either: (a) a PM making payments under the MSA (i.e. satisfying Section 1399-pp(1) of the Escrow Statute) or (b) in compliance with the escrow requirements of Section 1399-pp(2) of the Escrow Statute. Section 480-b also prohibits New York State cigarette tax stamp agents from affixing tax stamps to cigarettes if the relevant manufacturer has not provided the required certification or if the tax stamp agent has been notified by the Commissioner of Public Health that such manufacturer is in violation of the Escrow Statute. Section 1846 provides for seizure and forfeiture of any cigarettes that are unstamped or have been stamped in violation of Section 480-b. Section 481, subdiv. 1(c) authorizes imposition of civil penalties upon any manufacturer or agent violating Section 480-b.\n\nThe contents of this article have been adapted from a public domain document, Freedom Holdings Inc. v. Spitzer, 357 F.3d 205 (2nd Cir. 2004).\n"}
{"id": "25137431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25137431", "title": "Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee", "text": "Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee\n\nThe Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (TPSAC) is an advisory panel of the United States Food and Drug Administration organized to provide advice, information and recommendations to the FDA commissioner on matters related to the regulation of tobacco products. It was created in accordance to the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama on June 22, 2009. The Committee was inaugurated during its March 30–31, 2010 meeting.\n\nTPSAC consists of 12 members, including a chairperson, all of whom are selected by the FDA commissioner from among experts in medicine, medical ethics, science and technology related to the manufacture and use of tobacco products. Nine voting seats are held for academics and practitioners in the field of health care, while three non-voting seats are held for industry representatives. Members serve for overlapping terms of four years. Meetings are held approximately four times per year, with all meetings publicly announced in the \"Federal Register\" at least 15 days before each meeting.\n\nThe Committee's purpose is to review and evaluate safety, dependence, and health issues relating to tobacco products and to provide appropriate advice, information and recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs on the following topics:\n\n\n\n\nOn March 1, 2010, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that proposed committee members Jack Henningfield and Neal L. Benowitz, had served as consultants to GlaxoSmithKline, and Benowitz to Pfizer as well, both pharmaceutical firms that market smoking cessation drugs. Their selection by the FDA has drawn criticism as \"lax on conflict of interest\" by the \"Boston Globe\". Meanwhile, advocacy group Americans for Limited Government has raised concerns about funding received by TPSAC chair Jonathan Samet from GlaxoSmithKline and other pharmaceutical companies. In January 2011, Gregory N. Connolly resigned from the committee following allegations of conflicts of interest citing payments to provide deposition or trial testimony in lawsuits against tobacco companies.\n\nIn February 2011, Lorillard and R.J. Reynolds filed a federal lawsuit to try to block the advisory committee action or force the FDA to disregard its advice, stating three of the eight panel members had financial conflicts of interest from legal and consulting work against tobacco companies. On July 21, 2014, U.S. District Court Judge Richard Leon (Washington, DC) ruled that \"FDA erred in determining that the members didn't have conflicts of interest\" and that the appointments were arbitrary and capricious. FDA was also ordered to reconstitute the TPSAC.\n\nOn March 18, 2011 the panel concluded that removing menthol cigarettes from the market would benefit public health in the United States, but stopped short of recommending that the FDA take any specific actions like restricting or banning the additive. A progress report on panel findings is expected in July 2011.\n\nIn March 2011, the tobacco industry released a report to the FDA in response to the TPSAC decision claiming menthol cigarettes are no riskier than regular cigarettes and should not be regulated differently. The U.S. District Court decision from July 21, 2014 ruled that \"Conflicts of interest — whether actual or perceived — undermine the public's confidence in the agency's decision-making process and render its final product suspect\", blocking the TPSAC report on menthol cigarettes from being used for regulatory purposes.\n\nAn Interactive Public Docket on the TPSAC was established to allow interested members of the public to discuss the Committee's work. The IPD includes discussion forums on TPSAC sub-topics including Studies and Concepts Under Review, Member Statements and Committee Governance.\n"}
{"id": "8354785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8354785", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Ecuador", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Ecuador\n\n\"This article has been written in 2007 with partial updates since then, including most recently concerning access in 2012. Please feel free to update it further. The Spanish article includes some more up-to-date information.\"\n\nDrinking water supply and sanitation in Ecuador is characterized by a number of achievements and challenges. One key achievement is a significant increase in both access to an at least basic water source (90% in 2000 to 100% in 2015 in urban areas) and at least basic sanitation (82% in 2000 to 89% in 2015 in urban areas). Significant increases in coverage in urban areas were achieved both by the public utility EMAAP-Q, serving the capital Quito, and the private concessionaire Interagua in the country's largest city Guayaquil. However, municipalities rely overwhelmingly upon central government investment, rather than recouping the costs at a local level. Another problem is intermittent water supply, which affects half of the urban areas. Also, only 8% of all collected wastewater is being treated. The level of non-revenue water is estimated at 65%, one of the highest in Latin America. Addressing these challenges is complicated by the atomization of the sector: A multitude of stakeholders – the Ministry of Housing, the Emergency Social Investment Fund, the Solidarity Fund, the State Bank, NGOs, municipalities and others – intervene in the sector. Despite the existence of an Interinstitutional Committee for Water and Sanitation there remains room to improve coordination.\n\nIn 2015, around 1.1 million people lacked access to \"at least basic\" water and around 2.2 million lacked access to \"at least basic\" sanitation. (citation needed)\nIn 2004, water supply coverage (piped on premises) stood at 90% in urban and 67% in rural areas while Improved sanitation coverage in 2004 was 95% of urban and 79% of rural households.\n\"Source\": Joint Monitoring Program WHO/UNICEF(JMP/2010). Data for sewerage is based on the 2003 WHO World Health Survey.\n\nCoverage for both water and sanitation services tends to be lower at the coast and in the East than in the sierra. In addition, water supply coverage varies greatly by income, reaching about 90% for the top three income deciles in urban areas compared with levels of only about 60% for the bottom three income deciles.\n\nIn general, water service quality is low in Ecuador. Water supply services are interrupted in 50% of the urban areas. Water pressure is well below standard, particularly in poor outlying areas. In 30% of the urban areas, there is no treatment of drinking water. 92% of wastewater is discharged without any kind of treatment.\n\nAccording to a study in 2004 about sustainability, 38% of systems in rural zones have collapsed, and 20% are seriously damaged. 29% are somewhat damaged and only 13% are considered sustainable.\n\nBetween 1965 and 1992, the \"Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias\" (IEOS) or Ecuadorian Institute for Sanitary Works had been responsible for water supply and sanitation services in Ecuador.\n\nIn 1992, the sector was decentralized due to a Decentralization Law and the sector's administration was assigned to MIDUVI, which merged with the IEOS. Many municipalities, in particular small and medium-sized ones, did not dispose of enough capacity for providing water supply and sanitation services. In 2001, the national government began to support those municipalities with technical assistance through PRAGUAS (see below).\n\nThere are several contradictory policies on allocating the sector's resources within the country. There is no system for information, monitoring and assessment of the sector. Thus, an institutional chaos can be observed which doesn't define limits of responsibility between the institutions.\n\nResponsibility for establishing sectoral policy is legally vested in the \"Subsecretaría de Agua Potable y Saneamiento\" or Subministry of Potable Water and Sanitation under the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing. However, there is no clear definition of roles and responsibilities between various national and sub-national actors, nor is there an independent regulator of water supply and sanitation services. Stakeholders in the sector include the Ecuadorian State Bank, the \"Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia\" (FISE) or Emergency Social Investment Fund and several governmental ministries at the national, provincial and municipal level, among others.\n\nWhile Ecuador has a National Water and Sanitation Policy, Política Nacional de Agua y Saneamiento under Executive Decree No. 2766 of 30 July 2002 it is set out in relatively vague terms and avoids a clear position on sensitive issues such as investment subsidies (by national and sub-national governments) and who should receive them.\nA draft plan for a Water and Sanitation Sector Law was prepared, but has not yet been presented to Congress, given unstable political conditions.\n\nAn Interinstitutional Committee for Water and Sanitation acts as a forum for interchanging experiences in collaboration with MIDUVI.\n\nIn urban areas, municipalities are directly responsible for delivering the services. They can provide it themselves or through an autonomous municipal utility. In the capital Quito, water and sanitation services in the city itself and the rural parts of the municipality (\"canton\") are provided by the metropolitan utility \"Empresa Metropolitana de Alcantarillado y Agua Potable de Quito\" (EMAAP-Q). In Guayaquil, the service was transferred to the private company Interagua under a concession in 2001. At the same time, the former municipal utility ECAPAG became the regulatory agency for the new private utility.\n\nIn rural areas, more than 5,000 Potable Water Boards provide the services. Most of them are left to their fate in abandoned conditions, due to very low tariff levels, negligence of care of the water sources and lack of an institution helping water boards since the dissolution of IEOS in 1992.\n\nPotable water supply efficiency is usually measured through labour productivity and the level of unaccounted-for water. In terms of manpower, the best practices of the region reflect less than 3 employees per 1000 connections. In less populated areas, it can be difficult to determine the number of employees per connection, as services are often bundled by the government with other civic services, but the World Bank estimates that the number of employees per connection exceeds this in medium-sized towns, with somewhere between 5 and 14 employees assigned per 1000 connections.\n\nNon-revenue water, which is the difference between produced and invoiced water is also difficult to guess, given low measuring levels in Ecuador. However, at the end of 2001 it was estimated at 65%, one of the highest levels in Latin America.\n\nA study commissioned by the government under financing by the World Bank concluded that nationwide, tariffs covered only about 2/3 of system operation and maintenance costs in 2001. National and sub-national (provincial and municipal) government transfers are required to cover the operation and maintenance gap and to finance coverage expansion.\n\nConcerning the affordability of tariffs and ability to pay of user, in 1998 households that indicated expenses for water in the national living standards measurement survey, stated that on average they stood at 1.7% of their total expenses. This percentage is higher in urban areas (1.9%) than in rural communities with some basic infrastructure (\"rural amanzanado\" - 1.3%) and rural areas with scattered population (\"rural disperso\" - 0.9%). Within the poorest decile, this percentage is 1.9% on national average, but 3.3% in urban areas. The expenses include water which is bought from water tankers, but excludes expenses for sanitation.\n\nFinancing for urban and rural water supply investments is provided by a multitude of national and sub-national actors under different terms and conditions. Some favour participation by users and municipalities, but the majority provide assistance without requiring any contributions (\"assistencialismo\") in a clientelistic manner, underestimating the importance of participation to reach sustainability of services.\n\nIn 2001, an Executive Decree was adopted by the government which created correlation between a tax on telephone calls and government transfers of funds for water and sanitary improvement to municipalities. The level of the transfers is higher for poorer municipalities, and – most notably – higher for those that improve operator performance or choose to delegate service provision to autonomous operators. The system of sub-national transfers thus provides incentives to improve both performance and more sustainable institutional arrangements at the local level.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2005, US$409 million were invested in water supply and sanitation at the municipal level. As shown above, the funding reached its peak in 2002, when US$6.1 per capita were spent. However, the average investment p.a. was at only US$2.1 Compared to other Latin American states like its neighboring countries Peru and Colombia, the investment level in Ecuador is low.\n\nThe public water and sewer utility of Quito, EMAAP-Q, was turned around between 2000 and 2008, according to its general manager, Juan Neira. In this period water coverage in the city increased from 72% to 98% and sanitation coverage from 68% to 93%. A multistakeholder Fund for Water (FONAG) introduced innovative financing mechanisms to help protect watershed supply regions, promote conservation, and encourage public participation in valuing clean water. The company replaced its cumbersome manual billing system with an electronic billing system in 2008 under which an inspector, equipped with a portable computer, visit homes to read water consumption meters and immediately types and delivers the bill to users. Non-revenue water is said to have been reduced from 47.8% in 2000 to 30% in 2008 through the installation of household meters and the reduction of clandestine water connections. However, the performance indicators on the EMAAP-Q website show that non-revenue water was 38% in 2002 and 37% in 2006, with not data for subsequent years. Investments were financed by the Inter-American Development Bank under a US$170m project that closed in 2002, the Development Bank of Latin America under a US$25m project that was under execution in 2009 and company funds. According to its website, the firm has obtained international awards for administrative excellence and the quality of services, such as the gold medal of excellence by the Corporación Ecuatoriana de Calidad Total in 2007 and the Arch of Europe International Quality Award for Technology in 2008, without specifying the details of the awards. In April 2009 there was, however, no independent confirmation of these awards on the Internet. The company showed an operating loss before interest of US$5.5m in January–February 2009, and needed a government transfer of US$6.3m in the same period to balance its books.\n\nIn Guayaquil, the largest port city in Ecuador, the services were transferred to a private operator, Interagua, in 2001. At that time, 50% of the city had only 10 hours service per day. In five years the company brought 24 hours service to all the city and served an additional 55,000 families, mostly low income in the southern part of the city. Access to water supply increased from 64 percent in 2000 to 72 percent in 2003, and access to sewerage has grown from 46 percent to 55 percent during the same period. Families were able to consume twice as much water while paying one fifth of what they paid before, when they bought it from vendors distributing it in tankers and charging $3.50 per cubic meter. Interagua charges only 34 cents per cubic meter for the first 15 cubic meters per month.\n\nThe Ecuadorian government receives external support from several donors in terms of investment and technical assistance in water supply and sanitation.\n\nIn recent years, the World Bank has intensely participated in the development of key documents about Ecuadorian policies, including national policy of water and sanitation in 2002 and the innovative decree about transfers to the water supply and sanitation sector of 2005 as well as the draft plan for a Water and Sanitation Sector Law.\n\nThe World Bank Group contributed to the PRAGUAS project with a loan of US$48 million, paid by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.\n\nSince 2001, the \"Proyecto de Agua Potable y Saneamiento para Comunidades Rurales y Pequeños Municipios\" (PRAGUAS or Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project) became the government's primary instrument to face the sector's challenges, influencing key options about policy (see above), extending coverage and giving incentives to improve quality, efficiency and cost recovery of the service.\n\nTo satisfy requirements of quality, efficiency and cost recovery, PRAGUAS offers technical assistance and financial incentives to municipalities which are interested in delegating water supply and sanitation to autonomous operators, such as public or private utilities, cooperatives etc.\n\nReferring to coverage, between 2001 and 2006 PRAGUAS I equipped 252,000 persons with new supply systems and 127,000 people with on-site sanitation (i.e., approximately 5% and 3% of the Ecuadorian rural population of 4.7 million people). In small towns (\"cabeceras cantonales\"), where water service was interrupted, technical assistance was provided to improve the performance, separating service provision from direct provision by municipalities and increasing operative efficiency, to reach continuous sustainable service of good quality. In view of the fact that designs for more than 600,000 inhabitants (which is 13% of the Ecuadorian rural population) have already been prepared, a fast coverage expansion is expected within PRAGUAS II, which began in 2007 and was to last until 2011.\n\nDuring PRAGUAS I, among the country's 219 municipalities, 29 have decided to adopt new service models that are different from direct provision by municipalities. 14 have completed the transition process, exceeding the aim of APL-1 (Adaptable Program Loan) of five municipalities, which was established by the World Bank and the national government in 2000. An initial assessment shows that the first group of municipalities, which have delegated their water supply and sanitation services, like Cayambe (municipal company), Pedro Moncayo (municipal company, privately operated), Pujilí (municipal company), Guaranda (municipal company), Caluma (mixed company) and Echeandía (cooperative) have significantly increased their operative efficiency and raised tariffs to at least cover their operation and maintenance costs.\n\nThe second stage, called APL-2/PRAGUAS II was approved by the World Bank's board on July 25, 2006. PRAGUAS II is expected to provide the following benefits: i) support for consolidating the framework of incentives for investments in water supply and sanitation, as well as technical assistance to present a Water Law to the congress and the relevant regulations for its application; ii) A group of complementary activities to extend coverage under a demand-driven approach, enhancing hygiene benefits due to the new infrastructure and offering support to water boards aimed at strengthening the system's sustainability; iii) technical assistance and investment financing to improve quality, efficiency and cost recovery of water supply and sanitation services and management of solid waste in small towns; and iv) a communication program to develop support for sector reform.\n\nUntil 2011, PRAGUAS II is expected to provide water supply and/or sanitation for 405,000 inhabitants in rural areas, such as the efficient water supply for 220,000 people in small towns and sanitation managed by delegated operators for 120,000 persons. All service provision is done with a demand driven approach, respecting gender, interculturality and environmental care, thus aiming at an effective and sustainable use of the services.\n\nThe Interamerican Development Bank supported investments in the three largest cities of the country - Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca - through ten programs with a total amount of US$400 million. In 2006, the IDB approved a new loan in the amount of US$62.25 million for the town of Cuenca.\n\nPASSE is a program of the Health Ministry for the provinces of the central sierra region, which has received a grant from the European Union.\n\nSince 2003, the Belgian government has supported the \"Agua Potable para la Sierra Norte\" (APOSINO) or Potable Water for the Northern Sierra region, which is a technical assistance program in the provinces of Imbabura and Carchi.\n\nThe International Organization for Migration (IOM) carries out a development program in rural areas and small towns in the northern region of Ecuador, called Northern Border Development Program. The program is financed by USAID, which has invested US$63m from 2001 to 2007.\n\nThe humanitarian organization CARE is working in 15 Ecuadorian provinces, concentrating on rural areas and especially on projects close to the northern and the southern border. CARE works closely with the municipalities. In the last 10 years, CARE has contributed to significantly increasing water coverage under a sustainability-driven approach.\n\nNumerous small non-governmental organizations (NGOs), such as Water Ecuador (formerly known as Agua Muisne), Fundacion Yanapuma, and Eden's Rose have addressed the issue of drinking water and sanitation on a local level and have worked with many rural coastal and Andean communities in Ecuador to develop water and sanitation programs where several of the larger organizations listed above have not yet reached.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "620730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620730", "title": "Weston A. Price Foundation", "text": "Weston A. Price Foundation\n\nThe Weston A. Price Foundation (WAPF), co-founded in 1999 by Sally Fallon (Morell) and nutritionist Mary G. Enig, is a U.S. 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to \"restoring nutrient-dense foods to the American diet through education, research and activism.\"\n\nThe foundation has been criticized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for its advocacy of drinking raw milk and by various nutritionists, including Joel Fuhrman, for its advocacy of the health benefits of animal-based fats.\n\nPrice was a dentist from Cleveland, Ohio, whose 1939 book, \"Nutrition and Physical Degeneration\", describes the fieldwork he did in the 1920s and 1930s among various world cultures, with the original goal of recording and studying the dental health and development of pre-industrial populations including tribal Africans and Pacific islanders, Inuit, North and South American natives, and Australian aborigines. The book contains numerous photographs of the people he studied, and includes comparison photographs of the teeth and facial structure of people who lived on their traditional diet and people who had adopted or grown up on industrialized food. In certain instances it was possible for Price to examine and photograph traditional and industrialized eaters from the same family.\n\nThe WAPF has seven board members and numerous honorary board members, most of whom have medical or nutritional qualifications. In 2010, its membership numbered 13,000 and was growing at an annual rate of 10%, according to \"The Washington Post\".\n\nThe main sources of support for the Weston A. Price Foundation are the dues and contributions of its members. The Foundation does not receive funding from the government or the food processing and agribusiness industries. It does accept sponsorships, exhibitors and advertising from small companies by invitation, whose products are in line with WAPF principles. Current sponsors can be seen at the main page of the Foundation's website. The sponsors include grass-fed meat and wild fish producers, as well as health product companies.\n\nThe WAPF states it is dedicated to \"restoring nutrient-dense foods to the human diet... [and] supporting particular movements that contribute to this objective including accurate nutrition instruction, biodynamic and organic farming, pasture-feeding of livestock, community-supported agriculture, honest and informative labelling, prepared parenting and nurturing therapies. Specific goals include establishment of universal access to certified raw milk and a ban on the use of soy in infant formulas. The organization actively lobbies in Washington DC on issues such as government USDA dietary guidelines definition and composition of school lunch programs.\"\n\nThe WAPF publishes a quarterly journal called \"Wise Traditions in Food, Farming, and the Healing Arts\" in addition to an annual shopping guide which lists products made from organic, non-GMO ingredients, and are prepared using traditional and artisan methods.\n\nSally Fallon Morell is the co-founder and president of The Weston A. Price Foundation. According to the WAPF, she received a B.A. in English from Stanford University and an M.A. in English from UCLA.\n\nThe Foundation's recommendations include the consumption of unprocessed or minimally processed foods including: traditional fats (animal fats, dairy fats, olive oil, and cod liver oil, among others), organic fruits and vegetables, raw dairy products, soured or lacto-fermented dairy and vegetables (such as sauerkraut), whole grains (soaked or soured to neutralize their phytic acid), and bone stocks. The WAPF is known for its positive stance towards the consumption of saturated fats and cholesterol from traditional foods, its support of local food and farms, and its opposition to veganism and some aspects of vegetarianism.\n\nThe Weston A. Price Foundation is a lobbying group that seeks to ban infant soy formula, and advocates a nutrient-dense diet of whole foods, including animal fats. Board of Directors member Kaayla Daniel has released a book titled: 'The Whole Soy Story: The Dark Side of America's Favorite Health Food'.\n\nThe Weston A. Price Foundation is a major advocate for the consumption of unpasteurized milk, or raw milk, in the United States. One of its main goals is to remove health regulations that require the pasteurization of milk products so that raw milk can be legally purchased in all states. Supporters of this campaign believe the pasteurization process removes or destroys beneficial parts of raw milk, leading to a less healthy product that is associated with numerous diseases such as allergies, cancer, and heart disease.\n\nThe U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Food and Drug Administration disagree with this assessment, noting that the pasteurization process \"does not significantly change the nutritional value of milk\" and that consumption of raw milk poses a \"severe health risk\". They also point out that prior to the widespread use of pasteurization, many diseases were commonly transmitted by raw milk, while they made up less than 1% of food and water contamination disease outbreaks by 2005. The director of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration division of plant- and dairy-food safety, John Sheehan, called the organization's claims on the health benefits and safety of raw milk \"false, devoid of scientific support, and misleading to consumers\"\n\nEstablished with the help of the Weston A. Price Foundation in July 2007, the Farm-to-Consumer Legal Defense Fund aims to help protect the rights of farmers to provide meat, eggs, raw dairy products, vegetables and other foods directly to consumers. This includes protecting consumers' \"freedom of choice to consume raw milk,\" according to Pete Kennedy, president of the Fund. In the first year of its operation, the Fund raised over $350,000 and receives around three requests for assistance per week from farmers across the United States who are facing legal or bureaucratic challenges, or both in relation to sales of raw milk.\n\nJohn Robbins has written a critique in which he reviews the history of the Weston Price Foundation and provides evidence that Weston Price had recommended a vegetarian and dairy diet to his own family members as the healthiest diet. The foundation has cited Price to the effect that he did not recommend a vegetarian diet. The anti-vegetarian and anti-soy views of the foundation have also been criticized as \"myths\" in several publications.\n\nJoel Fuhrman has written a series of articles entitled \"The truth about the Weston Price Foundation\" in which he argues the Foundation is a purveyor of \"nutritional myths\", largely because they have failed to update their recommendations in light of contradictory evidence.\n\nQuackwatch describes the Foundation as promoting \"questionable dietary strategies\" and Price's core assumptions as contrary to contemporary medical understanding. \n\nScience-Based Medicine evaluated the medical and nutritional claims of the Weston Price Foundation and concludes the website is \"one of the worst on the internet\" due to misleading and false information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14864277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14864277", "title": "Águas de Portugal", "text": "Águas de Portugal\n\nÁguas de Portugal (AdP Group) is a Portuguese state-owned company that operates in the water sector.\n\nAdP Group companies provide services throughout all of mainland Portugal and across the fields of water supply and wastewater sanitation, namely the capture, treatment and distribution of water for public consumption and the collection, transport, treatment and disposal of urban and industrial wastewater, including their recycling and reuse.\n\nAdP Group also operates in several Portuguese speaking countries.\n\n\n"}
