{"id": "49616023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49616023", "title": "1994 Women's Fistball World Championships", "text": "1994 Women's Fistball World Championships\n\nThe 1994 Women’s World Fistball Championships was held from the 7th to 9 of September 1994 in Buenos Aires, Argentina.\nIs the first Women’s Fistball World Championship.\n"}
{"id": "24842130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24842130", "title": "2009 Latvian meteorite hoax", "text": "2009 Latvian meteorite hoax\n\nThe 2009 Latvian meteorite hoax was a publicity stunt in which Swedish-based telecommunications company Tele2 staged an apparent meteorite landing which was later revealed to be fake.\n\nThe drama began at around 17:30 local time (15:30 GMT) in Latvia on Sunday 25 October 2009. Student Ancis Steinbergs reported that a fiery meteor-like object had fallen in a field outside the town of Mazsalaca near the Estonian border. Reports described the object lighting up the evening sky with a blazing trail and hitting the ground with a loud crash, leaving a burning crater claimed to be around wide and from up to deep. Fire crews, police and military units attended the site, which was cordoned off while tests were carried out to check radiation levels. The crater quickly attracted scientific and media interest amid widespread speculation about the origin of the object.\n\nSteinbergs also filmed a video in which he and his two companions (his girlfriend and another student) approach the smoking crater and talk to each other excitedly when they apparently discover a burning mass at the bottom of the crater. The deliberately amateur style of the video, with shaky handheld camerawork and apparently spontaneous reactions from the students, has been compared to The Blair Witch Project. The video was published on YouTube and news websites, attracting worldwide interest. Landowner Larisa Gerasimova reportedly charged visitors the equivalent of $2 each to view the crater.\n\nThe first scientist to visit the site, Uldis Nulle of the Latvian Environment, Geology and Meteorology Centre, said his initial impression was that a meteor impact could have caused the crater.\nAndris Karpovics, a doctoral student of geology at the University of Latvia, described the crater as \"a simple, man-made hole with a substance poured in\". He told journalists that the hole appeared to have been dug with shovels, and noted that thermite (a mixture of aluminium and iron, possibly with sulfur added), probably caused the increased temperatures observed in the crater. The crater was considerably smaller than initially reported: its actual diameter was around and it was about deep.\n\nCaroline Smith, meteorite curator at the Natural History Museum in London, stated that the pictures and video footage of the burning crater indicated that it was not a meteorite crater: meteorites are not aflame when they strike Earth. Smith also pointed out that there were no other reported sightings of any fireball in the sky, which would have been very clearly visible had the \"meteorite\" been real.\nIt is believed that a meteorite would have to be around a metre or more in diameter to result in a crater of that size. Sizeable meteorites are rare, since most objects which enter the Earth's atmosphere burn up before reaching the planet's surface. The most recent large meteorite known to have landed on Earth struck near Carancas in Peru in 2007, leaving a crater around wide.\n\nOn Tuesday 27 October 2009, Swedish-based telecommunications company Tele2 admitted to perpetrating the hoax as a publicity stunt, and promised to reimburse the Latvian government for expenses incurred in responding to the incident.\n\nwas intended \"to draw attention away from Latvia's economic crisis and toward something else more interesting.\" She explained that 9 people had dug the hole and burned chemicals at the bottom to create the elaborate hoax. The meteorite hoax occurred the day before the recession-hit Latvian government approved an austerity budget for 2010, and some officials were not impressed by the stunt. Interior Minister Linda Murniece accused Tele2 of a \"cynical mockery\", and announced that the Government would cancel its contract with Tele2, stating \"The Interior Ministry doesn't want to do business with a firm that promotes itself at our expense\".\n\nPernilla Oldmark, spokesperson for Tele2 in Stockholm, said the hoax had been carried out by the Latvian branch of Tele2 though authorised by its head office. She apologised for disruption and said the stunt had been intended to launch a forthcoming marketing campaign, claiming \"The message will become clear as soon as the concept is launched\". Latvian Advertising Association President Girts Ozols said that the situation was unprecedented but the hoax could be considered an ethics violation in professional advertising. Ozols expressed concern that the incident had caused the community to feel insecure, and commented \"If such a prank is pulled, the culprits should not have allowed it to drag on for so long without revealing the truth.\" The Latvian Advertising Association's board is to review the matter.\n"}
{"id": "41086818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41086818", "title": "2013 International child pornography investigation", "text": "2013 International child pornography investigation\n\nProject Spade, an international police investigation into child pornography, began in October 2010 in Toronto, Canada. The investigation started when Toronto Police Service officers made on-line contact with a man who was alleged to have been sharing pornographic videos via the Internet and by mail. The investigation eventually covered over 50 countries. Almost 350 people were arrested internationally, and 386 children were said to have been rescued.\n\nFollowing numerous complaints received by the website cybertip.ca about Azov Films, the investigation began in October 2010 when undercover police made online contact with Brian Way, a 42-year-old man from Toronto and the owner of Toronto-based Azov Films, a firm that distributed DVDs and streaming videos of naked children which it marketed as \"naturist.\"\n\nIn May 2011 Way's home and office were raided, and he was arrested. Toronto law enforcement authorities and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service recreated Way's customer records and shared them with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and Interpol. Investigations involved more than 50 countries. Way is alleged to have earned more than $4 million from his website.\n\nApart from Canada, Australia and the United States, authorities in Hong Kong, South Africa, Spain and Sweden were involved. Investigations also spread to Greece, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway and Spain.\n\nThe Canadian arm of the operation was \"Project Spade\", in Australia it was \"Operation Thunderer\". Up to 45 terabytes of images and videos were seized.\n\nInspector Joanna Beaven-Desjardins, of the TPS' Sex Crimes Unit, said, \"It's a first for the magnitude of the victims saved\" and \"the amount of arrests internationally, also a first.\" Beaven-Desjardins also spoke about materials seized from Way's home: \"Officers located hundreds of thousands of images and videos detailing horrific sexual acts against very young children, some of the worst that they have ever viewed.\" The materials distributed commercially by Azov Films featured nude athletic and recreational scenes, but not explicit sexual acts. The nudity-only nature of the Azov Films material caused it to be classified in the UK as level 1 on the COPINE scale for rating images of children, \"i.e.\", generally beneath the threshold of legal interest. This standardized rating caused controversy, as politicians and members of the UK press later accused the National Crime Agency of negligence.\n\nThe investigation was officially made public in November 2013. Alternative news sources had disclosed its existence as early as December. 2012\n\nThe German Federal Criminal Police Office was informed in October 2011, but investigations only started in October 2012, with the list of customers being distributed to the German states' authorities in November 2012. During 13 months of holding back any investigations it should have been obvious for Federal Criminal Police Office that within the list there were IP-numbers of Deutscher Bundestag with at least several downloads of nude material of boys of the age between 9 and 14 towards the German Bundestag IP-numbers range.\n\nFive hundred of the 800 listed persons had purchased unambiguous child pornography according to German legal standards; the rest had bought material not considered to be illegal. A German MP appeared on the list; since the material he purchased wasn't categorized as clearly illegal, the case was held back pending further investigations, until February 10, 2014, when his house was raided. According to Jörg Fröhlich, public prosecutor in Hannover, Lower Saxony, the raid took place for reason of a higher count of other public prosecutor agencies handling similar cases this way against the account of agencies favoring not to do so when found material would need to be categorized as so-called \"II\" instead of \"I\" . The passing of secret information regarding the investigation to the MP's party leader resulted in the resignation of the former German Interior Minister, Hans-Peter Friedrich.\n\nThe home raid on Edathy when he had only purchased materials classified as legal was criticized in a national newspaper, \"Die Zeit\", in a guest editorial by Thomas Fischer, Chief Judge of the German Federal Court. He stated, \"Law exists in clear boundaries between permitted and forbidden behavior. Justice dares not follow he who does nothing illegal. In the Edathy case, this rule has been violated.\" In contrast, however, Mick Moran, head of Interpol's Human Trafficking and Child Exploitation unit, issued a public warning on Twitter to \"MAPs\" (\"minor-attracted persons\") that any sign they were acting upon their sexual orientations, whether the actions were legal or illegal, \"demonstrates an escalation of activity by 'MAPs' that must be interpreted as an increased risk to children regardless of the illegality\" and that \"must result in action by public safety officials.\"\n\nPublic discussion about nude pictures of children being legal in Germany, when not categorized as sexual in nature, led within hours to a published consent from all parliamentary parties, as well as from Germany's Minister of Justice Heiko Maas, for a prompt change of the relevant law.\n\nOn a February 19, 2014, a non-public meeting of the federal home affairs committee where BKA president Jörg Ziercke was reporting on this affair—Ziercke admitted, according to MP Bosbach—who leads that committee—towards reporters, that he had not seen any reason to publish the involved MP´s name any earlier, since at that time Sebastian Edathy was head of the NSU-murderseries committee doing inquiries against the BKA and therefore himself, Ziercke, so to prevent the obviously wrong public image of a nonexisting act of revenge.\n\nApart from the children involved in the production of the Azov films, 386 children were said to have been rescued from exploitation by purchasers of the films. In Canada alone, 24 were rescued {citation needed- previous link lead to a 404} while six were rescued in Australia. \"More than 330 children\" were stated to have been rescued in the US. This high number has been questioned, since full details of the charges for 54 of the total of 76 arrests in the US had been publicly released as of Nov. 14, 2013, and these details account for fewer than 15 persons exposed as children to current or historical sexual contact. An additional 75 to 100 children were surreptitiously indecently photographed, mostly by two arrested men who were school employees. The definition of \"rescued child\" used was that \"the children were either being sexually abused or they were being sexually exploited by having videos taken of them in exploitative positions.\" The 'exploitative positions' always included nudity or genital exposure.\n\n, 348 people were arrested internationally. Those arrested included priests or pastors, teachers, foster parents, doctors and nurses. A police officer and a youth baseball coach were also arrested. A Richmond, Virginia, man was sentenced to 70 months in prison on April 11, 2013, for receipt of child pornography.\n\nIn Canada alone 108 people were arrested. In the US 76 were arrested. In Australia arrests began in August 2013 and 65 persons aged from 25 to 72 were arrested. In Spain 28 were arrested in December 2012.\n\nWay has been charged with 24 offenses. The charges include \"instruction of a criminal organisation\" and \"making, possessing, distributing and exporting child exploitation ... \", which had \"explicit images of boys ranging in age from toddlers to teens.\" Way's mother, Sandra Waslov, is still sought by authorities. Waslov changed her name on 5.21.2010 in Orchard Park, Erie County, New York.\n\nThe 65 Australian suspects face 399 charges involving child exploitation. The charges include \" ... accessing, possessing, producing and distributing online child exploitation material\".\n\nOne of the high-impact arrests resulting from Project Spade was that of Ryan Loskarn. The 35-year-old was chief of staff to U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander at the time of his arrest. \nAn investigation of Loskarn's electronic equipment was prompted in part by the appearance of his name on the Azov Films customer list. It uncovered graphic child pornography that had been obtained over the Gnutella peer-to-peer network Loskarn was charged with possessing and intending to distribute child pornography and released on his own recognizance five days after his arrest on December 11, 2013. On January 23, 2014, he committed suicide by hanging himself at his parents' home. In his suicide note, published on the internet by his family, he stated that \"I found myself drawn to videos that matched my own childhood abuse.\"\nThe incident provoked wide discussion in Washington, with Washington Post opinion writer Ruth Marcus suggesting that \"we should use this sad episode to call attention to the need for mental health services--although Loskarn's problem was not lack of access but lack of willingness to accept the help available . . . But we should also use the moment to remind ourselves that reality is more complex than our cursory assumptions acknowledge, and that before we rush to condemn we might pause to consider the possibility of compassion.\"\n\nMartin Goldberg, a deputy headteacher in Essex, hanged himself after being investigated following information uncovered in Canada. Approximately 75 indecent images of children were found in his possession from his schools' changing rooms; 465 were taken at the swimming pools of his local leisure centre and 38 from other locations.\n\nThe headteacher of the school that he worked at said that he felt \"utter shock and betrayal\" about Goldberg's behavior, which had been brought to the attention of Essex Police in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "82264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82264", "title": "545 BC", "text": "545 BC\n\nThe year 545 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 209 \" Ab urbe condita\". The denomination 545 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years. \n\nIn the Buddhist calendar, it corresponds to the year 0, traditionally the year when the Buddha reached parinirvana. However, different traditions disagree about the actual year 0, with many placing it in the following year 544 BC instead.\n\n"}
{"id": "3605015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3605015", "title": "Agape Music Festival", "text": "Agape Music Festival\n\nAgapeFest, formerly known as Agape Music Festival, was an annual, Christian music festival in Greenville, Illinois. It featured many Christian musicians and some of today's top Christian bands. The festival was sponsored by nearby Greenville College and had been student-run since its inception in 1977. AgapeFest was generally held the last weekend in April or first weekend in May, and bands performed from early afternoon Friday until late evening on Saturday. They offered free camping and free parking to attendees. Unfortunately, the festival culminated after 2013's event. Greenville College was unable provide funding for AgapeFest in 2014, and that year's planned festival was not hosted. AgapeFest has not been hosted since and currently has no plans to return as a two-day festival. However, Greenville College hosted Encore Music festival in its place in 2014 and currently brings events such as Propaganda (musician), Noah Gundersen, and the Nashville Contemporary Music Center's Holotour to campus.\n\nPast festivals have featured Christian musicians like TobyMac, Audio Adrenaline, Kutless, Hawk Nelson, Lecrae, Owl City, RunKidRun, BarlowGirl, Salvador, Relient K, Sanctus Real, Newsboys, Jeremy Camp, Falling Up, John Reuben, David Crowder Band, Superchick, Skillet, Five Iron Frenzy, Switchfoot, Jars of Clay, The O.C. Supertones, Petra, Rich Mullins, Whiteheart, Grammatrain, The Waiting, Johnny Q. Public, and many others.\n\nThe festival is a member of the Christian Festival Association.\n"}
{"id": "48655808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48655808", "title": "Animatricks", "text": "Animatricks\n\nAnimatricks is annual animation festival taking place in Helsinki every April. The organization behind the festival (Palikka ry) was formed in 1999 and the first Animatricks festival took place in 2000. Animatricks is the only film festival in Finland, that concentrates purely on animation. The festival program consists yearly of Finnish as well as international compilations of films and screenings put together to fit the festivals ever changing themes.The next Animatricks will take place April 22.-24. 2016 in Helsinki.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "204114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204114", "title": "Benghazi", "text": "Benghazi\n\nBenghazi is the second-most populous city in Libya and the largest in Cyrenaica.\n\nA port on the Mediterranean Sea in the Kingdom of Libya, Benghazi had joint-capital status alongside Tripoli, possibly because the King and the Senussi royal family were associated with Cyrenaica rather than Tripolitania. The city was also provisional capital of the National Transitional Council.\nBenghazi continues to hold institutions and organizations normally associated with a national capital city, such as the country's parliament, national library, and the headquarters of Libyan Airlines, the national airline, and of the National Oil Corporation. This creates a constant atmosphere of rivalry and sensitivities between Benghazi and Tripoli, and between Cyrenaica and Tripolitania. The population was 670,797 at the 2006 census.\n\nOn 15 February 2011, an uprising against the government of Muammar Gaddafi occurred in the city. The revolts spread by 17 February to Bayda, Tobruk, Ajdabya, Al Marj in the East and Zintan, Zawiya in the West, calling for the end of the Gaddafi Regime. Benghazi was taken by Gaddafi opponents on 21 February, who founded the National Transitional Council. On 19 March, the city was the site of the turning point of the Libyan Civil War, when the Libyan Army attempted to score a decisive victory against the NTC by attacking Benghazi, but was forced back by local resistance and intervention from the French Air Force authorized by UNSC Resolution 1973 to protect civilians, allowing the rebellion to continue.\n\nThe ancient Greek city that existed within the modern day boundaries of Benghazi was founded around 525 BC; at the time, it was called Euesperides. Euesperides was most likely founded by people from Cyrene or Barce, which was located on the edge of a lagoon which opened from the sea. At the time, this area may have been deep enough to receive small sailing vessels. The name was attributed to the fertility of the neighborhood, which gave rise to the mythological associations of the garden of the Hesperides The ancient city existed on a raised piece of land opposite of what is now the Sidi-Abayd graveyard in the Northern Benghazi suburb of Sbikhat al-Salmani (al-Salmani Marsh).\n\nThe city is first mentioned by ancient sources in Herodotus' account of the revolt of Barca and the Persian expedition to Cyrenaica in c. 515 BC, where it is stated that the punitive force sent by the satrap of Egypt conquered Cyrenaica as far west as Euesperides. The oldest coins minted in the city date back to 480 BC. One side of those coins has an engraving of Delphi. The other side is an engraving of a silphium plant, once the symbol of trade from Cyrenaica because of its use as a rich seasoning and as a medicine. The coinage suggests that the city must have enjoyed some autonomy from Cyrene in the early 5th century BC, when the issues of Euesperides had their own types with the legend EU(ES), distinct from those of Cyrene.\n\nThe city was in hostile territory and was surrounded by inhospitable tribes. The Greek historian Thucydides mentions a siege of the city in 414 BC, by Libyans who were probably the Nasamones: Euesperides was saved by the unexpected arrival of the Spartan general Gylippus and his fleet, who were blown to Libya by contrary winds on their way to Sicily.\n\nOne of the Cyrenean kings whose fate is connected with the city is Arcesilaus IV. The king used his chariot victory at the Pythian Games of 462 BC to attract new settlers to Euesperides, where Arcesilaus hoped to create a safe refuge for himself against the resentment of the people of Cyrene. This proved ineffective, since when the king fled to Euesperides during the anticipated revolution (around 440 BC), he was assassinated, thus terminating the almost 200-year rule of the Battiad dynasty.\n\nAn inscription found there and dated around the middle of the 4th century BC states that the city had a constitution similar to that of Cyrene, with a board of chief magistrates (\"ephors\") and a council of elders (\"gerontes\"). Later in the 4th century BC, during the unsettled period which followed Alexander's death, the city backed the losing side in a revolt by the Spartan adventurer Thibron; trying to create an empire for himself, he was defeated by the Cyreneans and their allies.\n\nAfter the marriage around the middle of the 3rd century BC of Ptolemy III to Berenice, daughter of the Cyrenean Governor Magas, many Cyrenaican cities were renamed to mark the occasion. \"Euesperides\" became Berenice and the change of name also involved a relocation. Its desertion was probably due to the silting up of the lagoons; Berenice, the place they moved to, lies underneath Benghazi's modern city centre. The Greek colony had lasted from the 6th to the mid-3rd centuries BC.\n\nModern Benghazi, on the Gulf of Sidra, lies a little southwest of the site of the ancient Greek city of \"Berenice\" or \"Berenicis\" or \"Bernici\". That city was traditionally founded in 446 BC (different sources give different dates like 347 BC or 249 BC), by a brother of the king of Cyrene, but got the name Berenice only when it was refounded in the 3rd century BC under the patronage of Berenice (\"Berenike\"), the daughter of Magas, king of Cyrene, and wife of Ptolemy III Euergetes, the ruler of Egypt. The new city was later given the name Hesperides, in reference to the Hesperides, the guardians of the mythic western paradise. The name may have also referred to green oases in low-lying areas in the nearby coastal plain. \n\nBenghazi later became a Roman city and greatly prospered for 600 years. The city superseded Cyrene and Barca as the chief center of Cyrenaica after the 3rd century AD and during the Persian attacks; in 642–643 -when was conquered by the Arabs and partially destroyed- it had dwindled to an insignificant village among magnificent historic ruins.\n\nIn its more prosperous period, Berenice became a Christian bishopric. The first of its bishops whose name is recorded in extant documents is Ammon, to whom Dionysius of Alexandria wrote in about 260. Dathes was at the First Council of Nicaea in 325, and Probatius at a synod held in Constantinople in 394. No longer a residential bishopric, Berenice is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.\nIn the 13th century, the small settlement became an important player in the trade growing up between Genoese merchants and the tribes of the hinterland. In 16th century maps, the name of Marsa ibn Ghazi appears.\n\nBenghazi had a strategic port location, one that was too useful to be ignored by the Ottomans.\nIn 1578, the Turks invaded Benghazi and it was ruled from Tripoli by the Karamanlis from 1711 to 1835; it then passed under direct Ottoman rule until 1911. Greek and Italian sponge fishermen worked its coastal waters. In 1858, and again in 1874, Benghazi was devastated by bubonic plague.\n\nIn 1911, Benghazi was invaded and conquered by the Italians. Nearly half the local population of Cyrenaica under the leadership of Omar Mukhtar resisted the Italian occupation.\n\nIn the early 1930s, the revolt was over and the Italians—under governor Italo Balbo—started attempts to assimilate the local population with pacifying policies: a number of new villages for Cyrenaicans were created with health services and schools.\n\nAdditionally Cyrenaica was populated by more than 20,000 Italian colonists in the late 1930s, mainly around the coast of Benghazi. Benghazi population was made up of more than 35 per cent of Italians in 1939.\nAs a consequence, there was in Cyrenaica and mostly in Benghazi a huge economic development in the second half of the 1930s. Benghazi grew to be a modern city with a new airport, new railways station, new seaplane station, an enlarged port and many facilities. Benghazi was going to be connected in 1940 by a new railway to Tripoli, but in summer of that year war started between Italians and British and infrastructure development came to a standstill.\n\nDuring Operation Compass in World War II, Benghazi was captured from the Italians by Combe Force on 6 February 1941.\n\nIt was recaptured by Axis powers, led by general Erwin Rommel of the German Africa Corps, on 4 April.\n\nIt was taken again during Operation Crusader by the British on 24 December only to change hands again on 29 January 1942 in the Rommel Afrika Corp's push to Egypt.\n\nDuring the fateful Battle of El Alamein– from Alexandria, Egypt–British troops led by general Bernard Montgomery again defeated the Africa Corps which then made a long steady retreat westward passing through Benghazi for the final time. On 20 November, Benghazi was captured by the British Eighth Army and thereafter held by the British.\n\nHeavily bombed in World War II, Benghazi was later rebuilt with the country's newly found oil wealth as a gleaming showpiece of modern Libya. It became the capital city of Emirate of Cyrenaica (1949–1951) under Idris Senussi I. In 1951, Cyrenaica was merged with Tripolitania and Fezzan to form the independent Kingdom of Libya, of which both Benghazi and Tripoli were capital cities. \nBenghazi lost its capital status when the Free Officers under the leadership of Muammar Gaddafi staged a \"coup d'état\" in 1969, whereafter all government institutions were concentrated in Tripoli, Even though King Idris was forced into exile and the monarchy abolished, support for the Senussi dynasty remained strong in Cyrenaica. This was emphasized by real or perceived injustices from the government towards the people of Benghazi, including the demolition in the year 2000 of the arena of football club Alahly Benghazi S.C., following anti-government protests.\nOn 15 April 1986, U.S. Air Force and Navy planes bombed Benghazi and Tripoli. President Ronald Reagan justified the attacks by claiming Libya was responsible for terrorism directed at the United States, including the bombing of La Belle discothèque in West Berlin ten days before.\n\nIn February 2011, peaceful protests erupted in Benghazi that were brutally suppressed by Gaddafi's armed kalb forces and loyalists. The violence urged the people to fight back and start and uprise to withdraw Gaddafi from power The Libyan Revolution. At least 500 people were killed in the protests against the government.\n\nThe former Libyan flag used in the Kingdom of Libya was used by many protesters as an opposition flag. Demonstrators to Colonel Gaddafi were also seen carrying images of King Idris I. Benghazi and the Cyrenaica have been traditional strongholds of the royal Senussi dynasty.\n\nAs of 21 February, the city was reported to be largely controlled by the opposition. The widely loathed mayor, Huda Ben Amer, nicknamed \"the Executioner\", fled the city for Tripoli. Residents organised to direct traffic and collect refuse. By 24 February, a committee made up of lawyers, judges and respected local people had been formed in order to provide civic administration and public services within the city. Two local radio stations, operated by Voice of Free Libya, along with a newspaper, were also established.\n\nFrom 26 February to 26 August, Benghazi was the temporary headquarters of the National Transitional Council which is led by the former justice minister, Mustafa Abdul Jalil, until Tripoli was liberated.\n\nOn 19 March, pro-Gaddafi forces almost defeated the rebellion when they began attacking the city of Benghazi in a major offensive, but were forced back the next day when NATO forces began implementing United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973.\n\nOn 1 June, explosives were detonated in a car near the Tibesti Hotel, with a rebel spokesman calling the bombing a \"cowardly act\". It was suspected that an officer was killed, and many people started to shout out anti-Gaddafi chants while the Tibesti was cordoned off.\n\nOn 19 May 2012, residents of Benghazi voted in historic local elections; this was the first time such elections have been held in the city since the 1960s, and turnout was high.\n\nOn 11 September 2012, the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi was attacked by a heavily armed group of 125–150 gunmen, whose trucks bore the logo of Ansar al-Sharia, a group of Islamist militants, also known as Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, working with the local government to manage security in Benghazi. U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service Information Management Officer (IMO) Sean Smith, and CIA contractors and former Navy SEALS Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty were killed during a series of raids, commencing at nightfall and continuing into the next morning. Ten others were injured.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the second Libyan Civil War in 2014, Benghazi became the subject of heavy fighting between the Libyan National Army-aligned House of Representatives government, and the Islamist Shura Council of Benghazi Revolutionaries and ISIL-aligned Wilayat Barqa, which were entrenched in various pockets in the city. During the closing months of the battle, between late-2016 and mid-2017, much of the urban center in and around the remaining Shura Council pocket in the central coastal quarters of Suq Al-Hout and al-Sabri suffered heavy bombardment and war damage. Wilayat Barqa militants reportedly fled Benghazi in early January, while the LNA's General Khalifa Haftar declared the city cleared of the Shura Council on 5 July 2017. Despite Haftar's declaration of the liberation of the city, dozens of gunmen remained fortified and besieged in Sidi Akribesh, according to sources close to military. LNA captured the last militant-held district in December 2017.\n\nBenghazi is one of Libya's 22 shabiyahs (people's districts). Benghazi Baladiyat is divided into 32 Basic People's Congress administrative divisions, in which the responsibilities of the corresponding political units of the same name fall.\nThe official 32 Basic People's Congresses of Benghazi are:\n\nAs with other cities in Libya, there is a reasonable amount of ethnic diversity in Benghazi. The people of eastern Libya, Benghazi included, have in the past always been of predominantly Berber descent. In recent times, however, there has been an influx of African immigrants into Benghazi. There are also many Egyptian immigrants in Benghazi. A small Greek community also exists in Benghazi. The Greek island of Crete is a short distance from Benghazi and many families in Benghazi today bear Cretan surnames. There are even a few Italian-related families, left from the colonial times before World War II.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of Libyans in Benghazi are of Berber descent, though there is a minority of Arab descent. In the 11th century, the Sa'ada tribe from the Bani Salim migrated to Cyrenaica; each sub tribe from the Sa'adi historically controlled a section of Cyrenaica. Benghazi and its surrounding areas were controlled by Barghathi tribe. In modern times, Benghazi has seen a lot of Libyans from different parts of the country move into the city, especially since the Kingdom era. Many came to Benghazi from Misrata. Thus Benghazi has always been seen as a welcoming city, a city which the local Bedouins refer to as 'Benghazi rabayit al thayih' which can be translated as, 'Benghazi raises the lost' as many immigrants who arrived from the Western Maghreb or the former Al Andalus came with little money, clothes or food and were looked after very generously by the local Bedouin population as well as those arriving following the Italian war from western Libya.\n\nThe predominant religion in Benghazi is Islam. Practically all of the city's inhabitants are Sunni Muslims. During Islamic holidays such as Ramadan, most abstain from food; restaurants are usually empty during the day, with the exception of some expatriates and tourists. Alcohol is banned by law in Benghazi and throughout Libya in accordance with Islamic principles. The conservative Islamic nature of Benghazi creates a strong sense of family life in the city – practically all teenagers and young adults live at home until they get married. Many Muslims in Benghazi adhere to the traditional Maliki school of religious law, however much less so than in decades past. In recent years, more people are beginning to practice Salafism with the spread of literalist inclined Islamic television channels. It is not uncommon therefore to see woman wearing black niqabs and men with full beards in Benghazi because of the existence of such schools, although not exclusively for that purpose. The Senussi order from which the royal dynasty sprang has traditionally enjoyed strong support in Benghazi and the Cyrenaica.\n\nFor Muslims, there are many mosques throughout Benghazi; the oldest and best known such as the Atiq and Osman mosques are located in and around the medina.\n\nThere is also a small Christian community in the city. The Roman Catholic Apostolic Vicariate of Benghazi's Franciscan Church of the Immaculate Conception serves Benghazi's Latin Catholic community of roughly 4,000; there is also a decommossioned cathedral church (1929-1939; closed 1977; under restoration since 2009). For Egyptian Copts, there is a Coptic Orthodox church (which was formerly the grand synagogue) with two serving priests.\n\nJews lived in Benghazi as they did elsewhere in Libya, from Roman times until 1967 when most were airlifted out after a series of riots in the years after the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. There are no Jews remaining in Libya today.\n\nThe oldest university in Libya is the University of Libya, founded by royal decree in 1955. It was initially housed in the royal Al Manar Palace before receiving its own campus in 1968. It was later split and became known as University of Benghazi. There are some private universities such as Libyan International Medical University.\n\nEducation in Benghazi, as is throughout Libya, is compulsory and free. Compulsory education continues up until ninth grade. There are many public primary and secondary schools scattered throughout the city as well as some private schools.\n\nUniversity education is also free for all Libyan citizens in Benghazi. There are many other foreign schools such as Benghazi European School & private schools but G.International is the best for the wards.\n\nThe country's largest library containing over 300,000 volumes is affiliated with the university.\n\nInternational schools include:\n\nBenghazi is one of the sub-regions of the area referred to as Cyrenaica, the others being the Jebel Akhdar and the coastal plain running east of Apollonia. Cyrenaica is surrounded by desert on three sides, hence in ancient times the most accessible civilisation was to the North, across the Mediterranean, in Crete and Greece, only away.\n\nBenghazi is surrounded by the \"barr\", arid steppe. The Jebel Akhdar, literally, \"the Green Mountain\", just north of Benghazi, rises to the east. Here the vegetation and climate is more Mediterranean in feel with none of the desert landscapes found further south. A large section of the western Jebel Akhdar is taken up by the fertile Marj plain. Further east is the second level of the Jebel Akhdar, between and over above sea level, often thickly wooded and cut by ravines. Annual rainfall here, especially around Cyrene, can reach . It was this fertile site northeast of Benghazi that the Greeks chose for their settlement. The soil in Benghazi is a rich red colour and very clayey. Sirocco winds are not uncommon in the city, and as such, many of Benghazi's smaller streets and buildings can be quite dusty.\n\nTo the north, below the steep cliffs of the plateau, lies a narrow belt of Mediterranean farmland. Olives and other mediterranean fruits and vegetables are grown here. To the south, the forest and farmland gives way to juniper bush maquis and pre-desert scrub with some winter grazing.\n\nAs a district, Benghazi borders Hizam Al Akhdar, which surrounds it on land.\n\nAlthough Benghazi does not have a high percentage of green space per resident, there are a few public parks and green recreational areas in the city. Perhaps the most famous is the zoological garden and theme park in Al-Fuwayhat; the park is referred to locally as \"al-Bosco\", a colloquial Italian name for zoo/forest. The park is a combination of a zoo full of trees built during Italian rule (which contains wild cats, primates, elephants, birds and other animals) and a small theme park of electric rides, added later in the 1980s as part of a redevelopment of the entire site. It is one of the most popular parks in Benghazi, and is very busy on public holidays, as well as amongst school children and scouts on outings.\n\nOn Gamal Abdel Nasser Street is 23 July Park, another large green space which faces the Tibesti Hotel and borders the waterfront. The park is popular amongst teenagers, and families on Thursday nights (as Friday is a day off work throughout Libya). Another large and popular park is al-Buduzira in North Benghazi on the al-'Uruba Road in al-Kwayfiya. The park surrounds a natural lake, and is more rugged in nature than the city parks. A section of al-Buduzira is also a water park with large slides, whilst the southern part of the park has picnic areas which are popular in the summers.\n\nBenghazi has a warm semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification \"BSh\"). In the north of the city lies the Mediterranean-climate 'Jabal Al-Akhdar' (Green Mountains), and in the south the climate is becoming desert-like. Summers in Benghazi are hot and rainless, but with high levels of humidity. Winters are mild with occasional rain. Annual rainfall is low at per year. The city's local water supply is supplemented by groundwater transported from the aquifers of southern Libya along the Great Manmade River.\n\nThe city is divided into many neighbourhoods, some of which were founded during Italian Colonial rule and many which have developed as a result of modern urban sprawl. The different neighbourhoods vary in their levels of economic prosperity, as well as their cultural, historic and social atmosphere. Generally, the city is roughly divided into the following areas: Central Benghazi (colloquially referred to as al-Blaad by locals) – includes the medina, and the old quarter, Central Districts which circle the downtown – Al-Sabri, Sidi Abayd, Sidi Hsayn, Al-Berka, Al-Salmani, Al-Hadaa'ik, Al-Fuwayhat and Al-Keesh, Central Suburbs – Al-Laythi, Bu Atni, Al-Quwarsha, Al-Hawari, Coastal Districts – Al-Kwayfiya (North), Garyounis, Bu-Fakhra and Jarrutha (South), and the Distant Suburbs – Gimeenis, Benina and Sidi Khalifa.\n\nCentral Benghazi is where the majority of Benghazi's historical monuments are located, and has the city's most popular tourist attractions. Virtually all of Benghazi's theatres, libraries, best clothing stores, markets and old mosques can be found there. The Italian quarter is also located in the centre. The central districts are mostly residential and commercial areas such as Sidi Hsayn. The central suburbs are almost entirely residential and more like little towns in their own right; Al-Quwarsha is a good example of this. The coastal districts (especially the southern districts) are where Benghazi's beaches can be found. Some sections have become more popular as residential areas in recent years (such as Qanfuda). These areas are still primarily recreational however, and many beach condominium resorts (known locally as chalets) have been built in previous years such as those at al-Nakheel beach, and the Nayrouz condominiums.\n\nBenghazi is one of the cultural centres of Libya and is a base for tourists, visitors and academics in the region. Throughout its history, Benghazi has developed with a certain level of independence from the more Maghreb oriented capital Tripoli. This has influenced the city, and as such, the cultural atmosphere in Benghazi is more Arab in nature than that in Tripoli. An influx immigrants including Egyptian, Iraqi, Palestinian, Sudanese and Syrian immigrants have also influenced the city's culture to a certain extent in recent years.\n\nThe city centre contains a few local theatres, as well as the Dar al-Kutub National Library in Al-Funduq, where the works of popular local novelists like Sadeq Naihoum and Khalifa al-Fakhri can be found. Different architectural styles attest to the different empires that have controlled the city throughout history. Sport is also important in the city; two of Libya's most successful football clubs are based in Benghazi.\n\nThere is a variety of architectural styles in Benghazi, which reflect the number of times the city has changed hands throughout its history. Arab, Ottoman and Italian rule have influenced the different streetscapes, buildings and quarters in Benghazi.\n\nAncient architectural remains of the Greek and later Roman settlement of Berenice can be found by the Italian lighthouse. There is a trace of the 3rd century BC wall built by the Greeks, four Roman peristyle houses, six wine vats. A Byzantine church also exists on the site, with a mosaic still intact. These ruins formed the northern part of the ancient city, which extended south and east but now lies buried beneath the modern city.\n\nThe next oldest section of the city is the Medina quarter, which began to grow sometime under Medieval Arab rule, and is still intact today. This quarter stretches out from the Northern shores of the harbour, and covers an area roughly bounded by Ahmed Rafiq al-Mahdawi Street to the North-west, al-Jezayir Street to the South-east and 23 July Street to the South-west. The heart of the medina is Maydan al-Hurriya (Freedom Square); to the northeast of this is the covered Souq al-Jareed.\n\nThe largest Ottoman architectural monument in Benghazi is the late 19th-century Ottoman palace in El-Berka; built during the rule of Rashid Pasha II. The front elevation was completed in 1895, whilst the side sections were added later during Italian rule. The white and green structure houses 360 rooms; and is on a tract of land where Gamal Abdel Nasser Street meets al-Saqzali Street; south of the 28 March football stadium.\n\nThe house of Omar Pasha Mansour El Kikhia, an Ottoman Pasha from a prominent Benghazi family, represents a good example of Ottoman residential architecture with several balconies, stone archways, and an open courtyard containing a fountain. The home was recently restored, remodeled and converted into the Bait-al Medina al-Thaqafi museum.\nBenghazi came under Italian rule in the early part of the 20th century. Some examples of Italianate, as well as modernist colonial architecture from this period remain today. Under the governorships of Generals Ernesto Mombelli and Attilio Teruzzi in the 1920s, the buildings commissioned in Benghazi had an eclectic architectural language that embodied a Western conception of Eastern architecture. An example of this is the Municipal palace built in 1924, which stands in Maydan al-Hurriya (Freedom Square). The building combines Moorish arches with Italianate motifs on the façade. Italians even did the first architectural plan of Benghazi. in the 1930s, with a new railway station and promenade.\n\nThe largest colonial building from this Italian period is the Benghazi Cathedral in Maydan El Catedraeya (Cathedral Square), which was built in the 1920s and has two large distinct domes.\n\nBenghazi was heavily bombed during World War II, and so the majority of buildings in the city are examples of modern or contemporary architecture. The central business district was built mostly in the 1960s and 1970s with Libya's new found oil wealth. The highest building in Benghazi is the Tibesti Hotel on Gamal Abdel Nasser Street built in 1989. Another prominent example of modern architecture in Benghazi is the Da'wah al-Islamiyah Building, which has a series of distinctive cubes piled in the shape of a pyramid.\n\nImportant colonial buildings designed during Italian rule include the Berenice Cinema (currently under renovation) which was designed Marcello Piacentini and Luigi Piccinato in 1928.\n\nBenghazi is the second largest city in Libya, and as such, has some of the best sports facilities in the country. The city has various sporting centres of different standards, such as football stadia, beach clubs (where many water sports are played), as well as several other public and private facilities. Benghazi has hosted many national sports events throughout the years, as well as more significant international competitions such as the African Cup of Nations.\n\nFootball is the most-popular sport in Benghazi, and two of Libya's most-successful football clubs, Al-Ahly Benghazi and Al-Nasr Benghazi, are based in the city. The two teams have won the Libyan Premier League five times; Al Ahly four and Al Nasr only one. The most-important football event that took place in Benghazi was the 1982 African Cup of Nations. The city hosted six group games and a semifinal in the March 28 Stadium, Libya's second-largest stadium. The city will very likely be the scene of more games when Libya re-hosts the African Cup of Nations in 2013.\n\nThe largest sporting centre in Benghazi is the Medina al-Riyadhia (Sports City). The complex is situated just south of the city centre, and houses the 28 March Stadium, and the Slayman al Tharrat basketball stadium – several matches of the 2009 FIBA Africa Championship were hosted at the arena. The complex also has a sports hall for indoor sports, a tennis stadium and several small tennis courts. The facility was built in the 1950s and is therefore quite outdated; the stadia have nonetheless undergone maintenance work in recent years. Sports City was recently closed down for a complete redevlopment of the site. , the 28 March Stadium was undergoing demolition work, and a new 45,000 all seater stadium was to be constructed in its place. A second smaller stadium was to be built on-site, and the entire site was to undergo redevelopment before its reopening in 2011, and its use in the 2013 African Nations Cup.\n\nBenghazi is a coastal city, and its beaches are an important location for sporting activities. The coast at Jeliana is home to the Milaha Beach Club amongst others. Wind surfing and swimming are two of the most popular water sports. There are also several contact sport clubs in the city –judo and taekwondo are popular men's sports in Benghazi. In recent times, rugby sevens has seen great success with three clubs in the vicinity. Gyms have also become more popular in the city in recent years, because of a greater concern for healthy living amongst Libyans.\n\nFood and drink is very important to the culture of the people of Benghazi, as it is in the rest of Libya. Many of the dishes and ingredients used are passed down as tradition from generation to generation. The main ingredients that are used in their cuisine are olive oil, garlic, palm dates, grains, and milk. These products are natural to this area, and these ingredients are very common to much of North Africa and the Mediterranean. Another tradition of Libyan culinary culture is tea. Tea from Benghazi has a uniquely thick, bitter taste. Tea drinking is a social activity that close friends and relatives usually take part in.\n\nBenghazi is home to many distinctive dishes that can be prepared in the home. Bazin is one of the most well known of these dishes. Bazin is a dish consisting of a small loaf of heated dough and a meat or vegetable sauce. The dough can be ripped into bite-sized pieces and dipped into the sauce. This dish uses essential ingredients such as garlic and oil. Other dishes like Couscous are more well known around the world and adopted by other cultures. One common dessert that can be found in Benghazi is deep fried dates. These are often served with milk.\n\nBenghazi, as the principal city of eastern Libya, is one of Libya's major economic centres. The city has an important port which is vital to the economy, as Libya imports many foodstuffs and manufactured products. Benghazi is also an industrial and commercial centre in Libya. Major manufactured goods include processed food, textiles, tanning, processed salt and construction materials, particularly cement; a large cement factory is located in al-Hawari. Food processing is based on local fish, imported goods, and the produce of irrigated coastal lowlands and the nearby Jabal al-Akdhar Mountains, including cereal, dates, olives, wool and meat.\n\nFinance is also important to the city's economy, with the Libyan Bank of Commerce and Development maintaining branches in Benghazi; the Bank's headquarters is a high office tower on Gamal Abdel Nasser Street in el-Berka. Other large banks include the Central Bank of Libya office in the city centre.\n\nThe oil industry drives the city's commerce. Large national companies such as the Al-Brega Oil Marketing Company and the Arabian Gulf Oil Company are important to the city's economy and employ many people. An increase in consumer prices has been coupled with an increase in the importance of the retail sector to the city's economy. In recent years, international franchises such as United Colors of Benetton, H&M and Nike have opened in Benghazi.\n\nTourism is still in its very early stages in Libya. The industry is however growing in importance in Benghazi. The majority of tourists that visit Eastern Libya use Benghazi as a base for which to explore the Greek ruins in Cyrene or to make desert excursions south in Kufra. The two main hotels in the city are the Tibesti Hotel and Uzu Hotel, and several other hotels have opened in recent years to cater for increased demand. Handicrafts are found in the many souks in the city, but are of little significance to the economy.\n\nSkanska built a good connection of speedways and flyovers in the decades after the Libyan revolution in 1969; this has made the transport of goods between Benghazi and other cities easier. Benghazi's air transport uses Benina International Airport; numerous daily flights leave for Tripoli and connections are also available to other African, Asian and European cities.\n\nIn April 2012, the Libyan economy ministry announced plans for creating a free trade area in Benghazi.\n\nBenghazi is a transport hub in Eastern Libya and is an important city on the northern coastal road that crosses the country. An efficiently designed system of roads, bridges and underpasses cover Benghazi, however traffic jams and poorly maintained streets are not uncommon. A microbus system covers many areas of the city and has its base in Al-Funduq. National and international bus services also leave from Al-Fudnuq from the central bus station. , earthworks were underway in the city for a rail network which will traverse northern Libya.\n\nBenina International Airport serves national and international flights.\n\nThe Benghazi port is a vital terminal for the region, and allows for the import and export of national and international goods and food products.\n\nThe city's road network is generally well designed. An efficient system of highways, flyovers, ringroads and underpasses serve the city, and allow for the transport of goods and vehicles. The roads are not always well-maintained however, and often have incorrect, poorly visible or no road markings, as well as potholes in some roads and inner-city streets. In recent years, a rapid increase in car ownership has meant that traffic jams, lack of parking spaces and overcrowding are also not uncommon, especially on smaller streets. Road accidents are also on the rise because of the increase in vehicles and the subsequent lax in attention given by authorities to dangerous driving. In a rare RTA conflict health study, road traffic accidents were studied during the period of the 2011 armed conflict, in which Benghazi was a focal point of events. It was found that while the number of road traffic accidents had decreased during the period of the war, the morbidity and mortality of the injured had increased significantly.\n\nThere is no systemised public transport system in Benghazi despite the city's size and significance. A popular system of microbuses has developed in recent years; bus journeys run on fixed routes and passengers can embark and disembark anywhere on the route. Most microbuses stop at Al-Funduq or have the end of Souq Al-Jarid in Al-Funduq as their final destination. National and international coach services depart and arrive at Benghazi's coach station at Al-Funduq with regular journeys to Tripoli, as well as international services to Cairo, Amman and Damascus.\n\nUntil the 1960s there were two small railways, built by the Italians, departing from Benghazi and served with classical \"Littorine\": Benghazi-Barce and Benghazi-Soluch. But recently huge railway plans were supported by Gaddafi: work started in September 2008 on a new railway network that would connect to major cities of western Libya at Sirte. Russian Railways is responsible for the three-year contract. In the future, a rail link may be built to both Tunisia and Egypt forming a North African coastal rail network.\n\n\nMaps showing Benghazi.\n"}
{"id": "1774475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1774475", "title": "Blackpool Illuminations", "text": "Blackpool Illuminations\n\nBlackpool Illuminations is an annual lights festival, founded in 1879 and first switched on 18 September that year, held each autumn in the British seaside resort of Blackpool on the Fylde Coast in Lancashire.\nAlso known locally as The Lights or The Illuminations, they run each year for sixty-six days, from late August until early November at a time when most other English seaside resorts' seasons are coming to an end. They are long and use over one million bulbs. The display stretches along the Promenade from Starr Gate at the south end of the town to Bispham in the north.\n\nIn 2013 the Illuminations were originally meant to shine from 30 August to 3 November. However, on 14 March 2013 it was announced that the festival had been extended by a week, shining until 10 November making it the first time that the Illuminations ran for 73 consecutive days. This happened again in 2014 when they shone from 29 August to 9 November. The Illuminations have returned to shining for the regular 66 days since 2015.\n\nIn 2018 the Illuminations shined for 66 days from 31 August to 4 November.\n\nThe Illuminations were first shown in 1879 when they were described as 'Artificial sunshine', and consisted of just eight carbon arc lamps which bathed the Promenade. The original event preceded Thomas Edison's patent of the electric light bulb by twelve months. The first display similar to the modern-day displays was held in May 1912 to mark the first British Royal family visit to Blackpool when Princess Louise opened a new section of the Promenade, Princess Parade. The Promenade was decorated with what was described as \"festoons of garland lamps\" using about 10,000 light bulbs. The local Chamber of trade as well as other local businesses requested Blackpool Council to stage the event in September of the same year. The subsequent event was such a success that in 1913 the council were again asked to stage the Princess Parade lights as an end of season event. With the outbreak of the First World War there were no further displays until 1925 when the lights were again on display and extended to run from Manchester Square to Cocker Square. In 1932 animated tableaux were erected running along the cliffs from North Shore to Bispham, and the Illuminations were extended to its current length running from Starr Gate to Red Bank Road at Bispham. The Illuminations were ready to shine in 1939 but the outbreak of the Second World War again interrupted the annual display and post war austerity meant the lights were not switched on again until 1949.\n\nEvery year there is also the Festival of Light which features interactive installations and is described as being \"a contemporary look at the concept of light and art working together to create entertainment\".\n\nThe Illuminations have been used in modern culture in households around the United Kingdom, mainly with people quoting the following saying: \"Turn the lights off, it's like Blackpool illuminations in here\". \n\nEach year the opening night of the Illuminations, The Big Switch On, held in a specially erected arena with a celebrity pulling a switch to turn on the six miles of lights. The first switch on ceremony was held in 1934 when Lord Derby flicked the switch to turn on the Illuminations. In 1993 BBC Radio 1 first broadcast the switch on ceremony live when Status Quo were the guest celebrities, before in 1997 BBC Radio 2 started to cover it which continued until 2010, when GMG Radio, under its Real Radio and Smooth Radio brands took over the broadcasting of the switch on. Each year one main celebrity pulls the switch while there are performances in the Radio 2 arena with a pre-switch on concert featuring pop bands, singers and comedians.\n\nMost visitors drive through the Illuminations by car, coach or bus. There are also open top trams which run along the tramway as well as horse-drawn landau. At Bispham there is a special walkway for the tableaux which also includes mixed media in the various large tableaux displays. The Illuminations cost £1.9M each year to stage.\n\nFor the 2007 Illuminations, Interior designer and television personality Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen best known for his appearances on the BBC television programme, \"Changing Rooms\" was commissioned to create special feature on Central Promenade outside Blackpool Tower, named \"Decodance\". Llewelyn-Bowen had stated that he fell in love with what he called \"Blackpool's high-kicking glamour and historical reputation for giddy glitz\" while filming for the \"Holiday\" programme.\n\nThe displays at the cliffs from North Shore to Bispham contain forty large tableaux holding more than 5,000 square metres in surface area. There is a pedestrian walkway running the length of the tableaux displays which are set back from the Promenade beyond the tramway. Blackpool Tramway runs along the entire length of the Illuminations and there are over one million lamps in the display. In 2007 the Egyptian tableau which includes Egyptian sarcophagus, which eerily opens to reveal a mummified secret, returned after an overhaul. Also at Bispham on the clifftop was a new BBC Portal video screen.\n\nAlso in 2007 a new \"Doctor Who\" display appeared with monsters from the last three series of the show. In January 2008, it was stated that this section had been the most successful feature ever built in the Illuminations. And at Gynn Square on Gynn Island, a Space Invasion with an opalescent mothership hovering more than 40 ft in the air, battling it out with eight spaceships arranged in formation defending their territory. The display which used colour-changing LEDs, was created from the popular alien craft which used to adorn the Promenade.\n\nIn October 2007, a laser beam installed on the tower for the duration of the annual Illuminations was criticised by Astronomer and presenter of \"The Sky at Night\" television programme, Patrick Moore who said, \"Light pollution is a huge problem. I am not saying we should turn all the lights out, that is not practical, but there are some things which are very unnecessary. The Blackpool Tower light is certainly something I do not think we should be doing. I very much oppose it.\" The beam could be seen 30 miles away. Moore called for the beam to be stopped. The Centre for Astrophysics at the University of Central Lancashire in Preston said the laser has added to a spiraling problem affecting astronomy.\n\nAt the sixth annual Banquet and Ball on 9 January 2008, organised by the holiday trade umbrella group, Blackpool Combined Association, to raise funds for the Lights, the new Head of Illuminations, Michael Wilcock revealed new plans for the future of the Illuminations. These include,\n\n\nEach year in conjunction with the Illuminations the Blackpool Festival of Light, a fusion of art and light events and installations, is staged. In 2007 the Festival started on 31 August with various lighting displays throughout the town with displays by artists and also Blackpool and The Fylde College. These included a mixed media display entitled \"Donkey Fest\" on the cliffs at North Shore, \"Water is Everywhere\" by Creatmosphere at the Water Tower in North Shore which was\nan architectural light projection depicting moving water reflections, animating and highlighting the Water Tower building. Also, \"Hypodoché\" by artist Ann Carragher, an expression of the artists personal relationship between life, natural processes, and the female 'space & voice' of architecture throughout the ages. The light installation consisted of water and light was exhibited at a town centre art gallery. Also there was the United Kingdom's first \"Illuminated Art Car Parade\" on 21 October as well as the return of the \"Honda Goldwing Light Parade\".\n\nThere are a variety of rebuilt single deck cars, of different designs, all of which were rebuilt as illuminated theme trams. These run along the illuminated part of the Promenade during the Illuminations. A campaign by the local newspaper, the Blackpool Gazette in 2006 to get one of the Illuminated trams, Western Train, back on track, resulted in a £278,000 Heritage Lottery Fund grant to restore the tramcar which first ran in 1962. It was withdrawn from service in 1999 and had stood derelict at the Rigby Road depot. The tramcar is due to return during the Illuminations Switch-On in 2008. In January 2008 it was revealed that another iconic illuminated tram, the Rocket tram, which had been in service between 1961 and 1999 but which had since then stood idle, is also due to be restored with expectation being that it would return to service for the Illuminations in 2009 at a cost of about £150,000 and with the help of the Friends of the Illuminations group.\n\nIt takes twenty two weeks for all the lights to be erected in time for the Switch on each year and nine weeks to dismantle them after the display has finished. Most of the display is now operated on low voltage (12 V and 24 V) and in 2003 the Illuminations cut electricity consumption by 11% using new technology. Then in 2004 wind turbines at the Solarium on New South Promenade contributed to powering the Illuminations for the first time.\nThe Illuminations now only use green electricity from renewable resources, comprising wind power, small-scale hydropower and Biogas. The aim was for the display to be carbon neutral by 2010.\n\nIn January 2008 Blackpool Council announced plans to start a Friends of the Illuminations stating that they saw the future of the Illuminations as being more interactive, and that \"the group would help us shape the future of one of the country's best, free attractions.\" and would also encourage worldwide support.\n\nSeparate from the Illuminations, as part of the Festival of Light, Blackpool Christmas Lights are switched on every year in November in a very similar fashion to the Illuminations. They are located on various streets leading out of The Promenade. On Christmas Eve, and New Year's Eve, the Illuminations are switched on non-commercially to accompany the Christmas Lights.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53825797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53825797", "title": "Boris Yeltsin circling over Shannon diplomatic incident", "text": "Boris Yeltsin circling over Shannon diplomatic incident\n\nOn 30 September 1994, Boris Yeltsin, then President of the Russian Federation, was scheduled for an official state visit to the Republic of Ireland but failed to get off his plane when it landed at Shannon Airport. The incident embarrassed the Irish government, in particular Taoiseach Albert Reynolds who was left standing at the foot of the stairs to Yeltsin's plane, and raised questions about Yeltsin's health and fitness to serve.\n\nBoris Yeltsin travelled to New York to address the United Nations General Assembly on 26 September 1994. He then travelled to Seattle, Washington, to promote trade relations between the United States and Russia. After delivering a speech Yeltsin departed for Moscow via Shannon. The choice of Shannon was symbolic; in 1980 Aeroflot started operations there as its most western non-NATO hub in Europe.\n\nThe trip was scheduled at short notice. Reynolds was in Australia on official business when he learned of the intended stopover. He cut his visit short and returned to Ireland, landing at Shannon airport just a few hours before Yeltsin's scheduled arrival. Thirty one official vehicles waited on the runway to provide transportation to a formal reception at Dromoland Castle. The Irish Defence Forces brought in the band of the Southern Command and deployed one hundred soldiers of the 12th Infantry Battalion to serve as an honor guard. \n\nAround 12:30 p.m. IST an aircraft bearing the Russian's advance party landed at Shannon. The official delegation, including Reynolds, the Russian ambassador to Ireland, Nikolai Kozyrev, Bertie Ahern (the Minister for Finance), Brian Cowen (the Minister for Energy), and Willie O'Dea (Minister of State) went to the runway to greet Yeltsin's plane which was expected ten minutes later. The assembled dignitaries waited but Yeltsin's plane did not land. Airport officials reported that it was circling over Shannon and County Clare. After circling for an hour the plane landed. However, Yeltsin did not appear when the plane's door opened. An Aeroflot official informed Kozyrev that Yeltsin was unwell and that the vice premier, Oleg Soskovets, would meet with the Irish delegation. Kozyrev was able to board the plane but was unable to see Yeltsin. Alexander Korzhakov, Yeltsin's bodyguard, told Kozyrev that Yeltsin was \"very tired.\" Kozyrev returned to the runway and informed Reynolds that Yeltsin would not be making an appearance due to poor health. Reynolds replied, \"Well now, if he is sick, there is nothing we can do about it. I am willing to talk to the Russian President's representative, but Mr. Yeltsin, my guest, is on Irish soil, and I cannot miss the opportunity to go on board the airplane for five minutes, shake the president's hand and wish him a speedy recovery.\" The Russians rejected this suggestion. Reynolds then agreed to meet Soskovets and gave orders for a meeting to be held in the airport. The Irish government commandeered the VIP lounge of Delta Air Lines to serve as the venue. Reynolds and Soskovets held a brief meeting and Yeltsin's plane departed immediately after it concluded.\n\nThe immediate reaction in Ireland was uniformly negative. Yeltsin's problems with alcohol were well-known and the national and international media assumed that he had been too drunk to disembark from the plane (although in 2010 Tatyana Yumasheva, Yeltsin's daughter, suggested that her father had suffered a heart attack on the plane). \"The Irish Times\" ran a cartoon on its front page the next day which depicted a bottle of vodka bouncing down mobile stairs while an onlooker states \"At last a message from President Yeltsin.\" A large photo of Reynolds standing on the runway waiting for Yeltsin was printed on page three. The \"Irish Independent\" ran a photograph on its front page of Reynolds standing on the tarmac looking at his watch. Its editorial page stated, \"When a statesman occupying one of the most pivotal positions imaginable neglects basic courtesy and insults his hosts, searching questions must be asked about his fitness to hold office.\" Upon his return to Moscow, Yeltsin stated that he had merely overslept: \"I feel excellent. I can tell you honestly, I just overslept. The security services did not let in the people who were due to wake me - of course I will sort things out and punish them.\" \"The Irish Press\" criticized the lack of respect shown to Reynolds and suggested that Yeltsin's excuses be taken with \"a large measure of vodka.\" \n\nReynolds subsequently claimed that he had used the incident to extract favours from Yeltsin regarding the operation of Aer Rianta International in Russia. Maxine David at the University of Surrey supports Reynold's assessment. She notes that in the years following the Shannon incident Russian-Irish commercial aviation links strengthened.\n\nThe term \"circling over Shannon\" briefly became a euphemism in Ireland to describe the condition of a person who has had too much to drink.\n"}
{"id": "53287074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53287074", "title": "Capital FM Monster Mash-Up", "text": "Capital FM Monster Mash-Up\n\nCapital FM Monster Mash Up was a three-day festival sponsored by the radio station Capital FM.\n\nCapital's Monster Mash up with Vodafone was held on 3 different days. Day 1 was in Liverpool, on Thursday 27 October. Day 2 was in London on Friday 28 October. Day 3 was in Manchester on Sunday 30 October. Marvin Humes did a Pre-Show DJ Set before each show.\nCapital's Monster Mash up with VOXI will be held on 3 different days. Day 1 is in Liverpool on Thursday 26 October. Day 2 is in London on Friday 27 October. Day 3 is in Manchester on Saturday 28 October. Marvin Humes will again play all 3 days.\n\nCapital's Monster Mash Up did not return for 2018.\n"}
{"id": "9609781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9609781", "title": "China International Aviation &amp; Aerospace Exhibition", "text": "China International Aviation &amp; Aerospace Exhibition\n\nChina International Aviation & Aerospace Exhibition (), also known as Airshow China (中国航展) or Zhuhai Airshow (珠海航展), is the largest airshow in mainland China. It has been held in even years in Zhuhai, Guangdong since 1996.\n\nThe first Airshow China was held from 5 November to 10 November 1996. Performances included:\n\nThe second Airshow China was held from 15 November to 22 November 1998. Performances included:\n\nThe third Airshow China was held from 6 November to 12 November 2000. Performances included:\n\nThe fourth Airshow China was held from 3 November to 7 November 2002.\n\nThe fifth Airshow China was held from 1 November to 7 November 2004. Yang Liwei was present. Performances included:\n\nThe sixth Airshow China was held from 31 October to 5 November 2006. The first three days were corporate days and not open to public. The remaining three days were public days. Over 30 countries and 600 aviation companies took part. Performances included:\n\nThe seventh Airshow China was held from 4 November to 9 November 2008. Some 4 billion U.S. dollars worth of deals were signed at the six-day event, including one involving Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China (COMAC) selling 25 ARJ21-700 regional jets to GE Commercial Aviation Services of the United States (first delivery by 2013). Additionally, the Chengdu J-10 and Xian JH-7A both made their first public appearances. Other performances included:\n\nThe eighth Airshow China was held in Zhuhai from 16 November to 21 November 2010. It included:\n\nThe ninth Airshow China in 2012 included:\n\nThe eleventh Airshow China in 2016 included:\n\nThe tenth Airshow China in 2018 included presentation of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31943403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31943403", "title": "Crimes against humanity under Communist regimes", "text": "Crimes against humanity under Communist regimes\n\nCrimes against humanity have occurred under various Communist regimes. Actions such as forced deportation, terror, ethnic cleansing, and the deliberate starvation of people such as during the Holodomor and the Great Leap Forward have been described as crimes against humanity. In the 2008 Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism it was stated that crimes committed under communism were often crimes against humanity, according to the definition developed in the Nuremberg Trials, and that the crimes committed under Communism and National Socialism were comparable. Very few people have been tried for these crimes, although Cambodia has prosecuted members of the Khmer Rouge and Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania have passed laws that have led to the prosecution of several perpetrators for crimes against the Baltic peoples. They were tried for crimes committed during the Occupation of the Baltic states in 1940 and 1941, and during the reoccupation after the war. There were also trials for attacks by the People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (NKVD) on the Forest Brethren.\n\nThere is a scholarly consensus that the Cambodian genocide carried out by the Khmer Rouge under Pol Pot in what became known as the killing fields was a crime against humanity. Legal scholars Antoine Garapon, David Boyle and sociologist Michael Mann and professor of Political Science Jacques Semelin believe the actions of the Communist Party of Kampuchea are best described as a crime against humanity rather than genocide. In 1997 the co prime ministers of Cambodia sought help from the United Nations in seeking justice for the crimes perpetrated by the communists during the years 1975 to 1979. During the month of June that same year Pol Pot was taken prisoner during an internal struggle within the Khmer Rouge and was offered to the international community. However, there were no countries willing to seek his extradition. The policies enacted by the Khmer Rouge led to the deaths of one quarter of the population in just four years.\n\nIn a speech before Parliament, President of Romania Traian Băsescu stated that \"the criminal and illegitimate former communist regime committed massive human rights violations and crimes against humanity, killing and persecuting as many as two million people between 1945 and 1989\" The speech was based on the 660 page report of a Presidential Commission headed by Vladimir Tismaneanu, a professor at the University of Maryland. The report also said that “the regime exterminated people by assassination and deportation of hundreds of thousands of people,” and highlighted the Piteşti Experiment. Gheorghe Boldur-Lăţescu has also said that the Piteşti Experiment was a crime against humanity, and Dennis Deletant has described it as \nThree victims of the prison camp system in North Korea with the aid of the Citizens Coalition for Human Rights of abductees and North Korean Refugees have attempted to bring Kim Jong-il to justice. In December 2010 they filed charges at The Hague. The NGO group Christian Solidarity Worldwide has stated the gulag system appears to be designed specifically to kill a large number of the populace who are labelled as enemies or who have a differing political belief.\n\nMao Zedong was the Chairman of the Chinese Communist Party, which took control in 1949, until his death in September 1976. During this time, he instituted several reform efforts, the most notable of which were the Great Leap Forward, and the Cultural Revolution. In January 1958, Mao launched the 5-year plan, the latter part of which was known as the Great Leap Forward. The plan was intended to expedite production and heavy industry as a supplement to economic growth, similar to the soviet model, and the defining factor behind Mao's \"Chinese\" Marxist policies.\n\nMao spent ten months of 1958 touring the country in order to gain support for the Great Leap Forwards and inspect the progress that had already been made. What this entailed was the humiliation, public castigation and torture of all who questioned the leap. The five-year-plan first instituted the division of farming communities up into communes. The Chinese National Programme for Agricultural Development (NPAD) began to accelerate their drafting plans for the countries industrial and agricultural outputs. The draft plans were initially successful as the Great Leap Forwards divided up the Chinese workforce and production soared (albeit briefly). Eventually the planners developed even more ambitious goals, such as replacing the draft plans for 1962 with those for 1967, and the industries developed supply bottlenecks and could not meet the growth demands. Rapid industrial development came in turn with a swelling of urban populations. In 1959 due to the furthering of collectivization, heavy industry production and the stagnation of the farming industry that did not keep up with the demands of population growth in combination with a year of unfortunate weather in farming areas, only 170 million tons of grain were produced, far below what the population needed. Mass starvation ensued, and was only made worse by 1960, as even less grain was produced at 144 million tons. The government instituted rationing, but between 1958 and 1962 it is thought that around 10 million people died of starvation alone. The famine did not go unnoticed, Mao was fully aware of the major famine sweeping the countryside but rather than try to fix the problem, he blamed it on counterrevolutionaries who were “hiding and dividing grain…” Mao even symbolically decided to abstain from eating meat in honor of those who were suffering.\n\nDue to the widespread famine across the country there were many reports of cannibalism and horrific stories including that of a farmer from Hunan who was forced to kill and eat his own child. When questioned, he said he did it \"out of mercy.\" An original death toll estimate of the whole even ranged from 15-40 million. According to Frank Dikötter, a chair professor for humanities at the University of Hong Kong and author of Mao’s Great Famine, a book detailing the Great leap forward and the consequences of a strong armed economic reform, the total death count of the famine between 1958 and 1962 was upwards of 45 million. Of the death count, 6-8% of those who were killed prematurely by the government were often tortured first. 2% committed suicide and 5% died in Mao’s labor camps for those labelled as “enemies of the people.” In an article from the \"New York Times\", Dikötter also references severe punishments for slight infractions such as being buried alive for stealing a handful of grain or losing an ear and being branded for digging up a potato. Higher up the chain of command, a chairman in an executive meeting in 1959 expressed apathy to the widespread suffering “When there is not enough to eat, people starve to death. It is better to let half of the people die so that the other half can eat their fill.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13546935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13546935", "title": "Denver Film Festival", "text": "Denver Film Festival\n\nThe Denver Film Festival is held in November, primarily at the Denver Film Center/Colfax, in Denver, Colorado, now the Anna and John J. Sie FilmCenter (Sie FilmCenter). Premiere events are held in the Buell Theatre and Ellie Caulkins Opera House at the Denver Performing Arts Complex. Before 2012, It was held in the Tivoli Union on the Auraria Campus.\n\nThe festival features a diverse selection of films, ranging from independent to commercial from all over the world and is well attended by filmmakers. The festival is currently managed by the Denver Film Society and sponsored by Starz.\n\nThe first festival was held on May 4, 1978, and featured such films as \"Annie Hall\", \"The Fury\", \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\", \"The Hills Have Eyes\" and \"Pretty Baby\". The festival kicked off with a 90-minute clip compilation from Warner Bros. titled ‘The Movies That Made Us.’ The festival was originally conceived and founded by Peter Warren, Ph.D., then a professor of mathematics at the University of Denver and by Irene Clurman, then the art critic for the Rocky Mountain News. The first artistic director was Ron Hecht, the manager of the Vogue theatre.\n\nIn the early years, Ron Henderson served as marketing director and subsequently as artistic director. Henderson recalls \"There were no red carpets and no television cameras out front. We did a ribbon cutting with Dick Lamm (then governor). When we got inside it was a full house at the Old Centre theater, which was demolished before the next year's festival. (The Centre sat 1,200.).\n\n\"Most notably, the weather was ominous - cloudy and cool. The opening-night party was at a private house and it was an invitational affair. When we got there, a cold rain was falling. We woke up the next morning, and there was a foot of wet snow on the ground, but it was springtime and by the end of the day, it was beautiful.\n\n\"The first festival obviously was very successful, so we decided to take it to a second year. It was really three years before we finally said, 'OK, this is a real thing, let's hire staff and incorporate as a nonprofit.' \"\nThe 28th Starz Denver Film Festival was held November 10–20, 2005.\n\nSpecial tributes were given to Claude Lelouch and Ryuichi Hiroki. The festival also included a focus on Japanese Cinema.\n\nThe 29th Starz Denver Film Festival was held November 9–19, 2006 and featured 194 titles from 29 countries. 15 films were premiered. The festival was attended by 38,881 film goers and more than 180 filmmakers. The opening night film was 'Breaking and Entering' and the closing night film was \"Rescue Dawn\". \n\nSpecial tributes were given to Vilmos Zsigmond, Wu Tian Ming, Scott Wilson and Allan King. The festival also included a focus on Canadian Cinema.\n\nThe 30th Starz Denver Film Festival was held November 8 – 18, 2007. The official line-up was announced October 22.\n\nThe 31st Starz Denver Film Festival was held November 13–23, 2008. The featured Red Carpet events were screenings of \"The Brothers Bloom\", \"Slumdog Millionaire\" and \"Last Chance Harvey\".\nThe 32nd Denver Film Festival was held November 12–22, 2009. The featured Red Carpet films included \"\", \"The Last Station\" and \"The Young Victoria\".\n\nFestival was held November 3–14, 2010. It screened over 200 films and included a Focus on Iranian Cinema. Red Carpet Events including a screening of \"Morning\", \"Rabbit Hole\", \"Casino Jack\", \"127 Hours\" and \"Black Swan\". The festival was dedicated to director George Hickenlooper who died in Denver just days before his film \"Casino Jack\" screened at the Festival.\n\nThe 2011 Festival was held November 2–13, with 247 Films programmed, including a Focus on South Korean Cinema. Red Carpet screenings included \"Like Crazy\", \"The Descendants\", and \"The Artist\". This was the last year the festival held screenings at the Starz Film Center on the Auraria Campus. The 2011 Award Winners are listed below.\nThe 2012 festival was held November 1–11. It included a Focus on the Cinema of Argentina with 13 Argentine films in the program. Red Carpet events included the opening night film \"A Late Quartet\", Dustin Hoffman's directorial debut, \"Quartet\" and the closing night film, \"Silver Linings Playbook\". Special events at the festival included tributes to Dutch filmmaker Mijke de Jong, Argentine filmmaker Daniel Burman, Boulder, Colorado, filmmaker Stacey Steers, and the Colorado filmmaking collective, Milkhaus. Celebrity guests who were present to receive festival awards or for special presentations included, Tippi Hedren, George Romero, Andy Garcia, Vince Vaughn and Jason Ritter. Additional screenings were held at the Denver Pavilions off of 16th Street Mall. The 2012 award winners are below.\n\nThe 2013 festival was held November 6–17, with a focus on Dutch Cinema. Red carpet screenings included, \"Labor Day\", \"Nebraska\" and \"\". The 2013 award winners are below.\n\nThe 2014 Starz Denver Film Festival was held November 12–23. The 2014 award winners are below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193571", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 1996", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 1996\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 1996 was the 41st edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Oslo, Norway, following Secret Garden's win at the 1995 contest in Dublin, Ireland with the song \"Nocturne\".\n\nIt was held on 18 May 1996 in Oslo Spektrum. The presenters were Ingvild Bryn and Morten Harket. Harket, lead singer of a-ha, opened the show with a performance of his single \"Heaven's Not for Saints\", which was a smash hit in Norway at the time. Twenty-three countries participated in the contest, with Eimear Quinn of Ireland crowned the winner after the final voting, with the song, \"The Voice\". The song was written by Brendan Graham, who also composed the 1994 winner \"Rock 'n' Roll Kids\". It was also a record seventh win for Ireland and the most recent win of Ireland.\n\nA non-televised audio-only pre-qualification round was organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), in order to shortlist the number of participating nations that would compete in the televised final from twenty-nine, to a more manageable twenty-three. , , , , , , and all failed to qualify. Macedonia eventually went on to make their debut in . The 1996 contest remains the only Eurovision without a German entry at the Grand Final of the festival.\n\nOslo is the capital and the most populous city in Norway. It constitutes both a county and a municipality. For the first time, the Norwegian capital hosted the contest. This was the second time the event was staged in Norway, after the 1986 contest in Bergen.\n\nOslo Spektrum, a multi-purpose indoor arena, was chosen as the host venue. Opened in December 1990, it is primarily known for hosting major events such as the annual Nobel Peace Prize Concert and concerts by artists of national and international fame\n\nThe European Broadcasting Union continued to experiment in their efforts to find a broadly acceptable method of whittling down the large number of potential participating countries to a more realistic figure. This year, they reverted to the pre-qualifying round that had been used for the , but this time with just one country exempt from the process - the host Norway. The audio-only pre-qualification round, which was never televised or broadcast on radio, was used by the EBU in order to shortlist the number of participating nations that would compete in the televised final. With exception to the hosts , audio entries from twenty-nine countries were played to national juries, of which only twenty-two proceeded to the televised final in Oslo. , , , , , , and all failed to qualify. As a result, Macedonia's submission was never classified as a debut entry by the EBU, the nation eventually went on to make their official televised debut in .\n\nIt rapidly became evident that this system was no more sustainable than any other the EBU had tried, as it meant that several countries had gone through their traditional full-blown national selection procedure to come up with an entry, only to suffer the anti-climax of having their challenge quietly extinguished without even having had the opportunity of presenting the song to an international audience. As a leading financial contributor to the contest, Germany were particularly aggrieved that their entry, the techno song \"Planet of Blue\" performed by Leon, was one of the seven cast aside. It was the only year in the history of the ESC in which Germany did not participate in the final.\n\nThe 1996 contest also featured two novelties — which similarly failed to become a tradition — firstly a short 'good luck message' for each entry, recorded by a political leader or official from their country. The seniority of the figure who delivered the message varied wildly from country to country, ranging from Presidents and Prime Ministers on one end of the spectrum to junior ministers or ambassadors on the other, but a few very significant European political figures did appear, including long-serving Swedish premier Göran Persson, President Alija Izetbegović of Bosnia and Herzegovina and future UN Secretary-General António Guterres, then Prime Minister of Portugal. But of course the only good luck wish that was fully rewarded in the end was that of Irish Taoiseach John Bruton, who introduced the song that took his country to a fourth win in five years.\n\nSecondly, the voting section was conducted using \"blue screen\" virtual reality technology provided by Silicon Graphics. The host Ingvild Bryn introduced the viewers to the 'blue room', upon which a 3D scoreboard, views of the green room, the jury spokespersons and country graphics appeared. The only physical aspects were Ingvild herself and two podiums. For the first time in the Eurovision history, during the voting a spokesperson came to stage (exactly the blue room) down next to Ingvild: the Norwegian one, Ragnhild Sælthun Fjørtoft.\n\nEach performance had a conductor who maestro the orchestra.\n\nCountries listed below submitted entries for the audio-only pre-qualification round, which was never televised, and was used by the EBU in order to shortlist the number of participating nations that would compete in the televised final. Despite a submitted entry from Macedonia, it was never classified as an official debut entry, although the nation would eventually make their official televised debut in .\n\nEach country had a jury that awarded 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 point(s) for their top ten songs. One year later, televoting would be introduced in only some countries, such as Sweden and the United Kingdom. When Belén Fernández de Henestrosa, the Spanish spokesperson, announced the votes of the Spanish jury, she awarded two points to \"Czechoslovakia\" (while meaning 'Slovakia'). Furthermore, she awarded six points to \"Holland\" (the Netherlands), which host Ingvild Byrn misheard as \"Poland.\" The official results table corrected this error, and the Netherlands' seventh-place result was restored at the expense of the United Kingdom, who ultimately finished eighth. Because originally Poland awarded six points from Spain, Greece was placed 14th over Poland after the official results table corrected this error. Norway's entry, \"I evighet\", is notable for being the only runner-up not to receive a single \"12 points\" score in a Eurovision final since the current voting method was introduced in 1975.\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 point in the final:\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points in the pre-qualifying round.\n\nIn 1996 all contestants were wished good luck by a politician from their own country in their own language. Those wishes were shown right before their performance. This was the only year in Eurovision with such wishes. These are the people who wished their country's participant good luck (language in parentheses):\n\n\nThe order in which each country announced their votes was determined by order of performance in the contest. The spokespersons are shown alongside each country.\n\n"}
{"id": "199072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199072", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 2001", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 2001\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 2001 was the 46th edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Copenhagen, Denmark, following the Olsen Brothers' win at the 2000 contest in Stockholm, Sweden with the song \"Fly on the Wings of Love\".\nThe hosting marked the second time the contest was held on Danish soil, after the 1964 contest - 37 years earlier.\n23 countries took part in the contest, which was held on 12 May 2001. The host venue was the Parken Stadium - the largest venue to ever host the contest as of 2018. A total of 35,000 spectators saw the show live from within the stadium, breaking the record of 16,000 held by the previous year's hosts Sweden.\n\nThe show was opened by the Olsen Brothers, with a snippet from their winning song \"Fly on the Wings of Love\", followed by their latest single \"Walk Right Back\", which was already a smash hit in Denmark at the time. \nThe presenters were Danish journalist and TV-show presenter Natasja Crone Back and the famous Danish actor Søren Pilmark who spoke most of their announcements in rhyming couplets.\n\nFrance, Greece and Slovenia were the heavy favourites to win the contest; however, as the voting progressed it became a two-horse race between Estonia and the host country Denmark.\nThe contest was won by Estonia, represented by Tanel Padar, Dave Benton & 2XL with the song \"Everybody\", written by Ivar Must and Maian-Anna Karmas, which scored a total of 198 points. The host nation, Denmark, finished in 2nd place with 177 points - beaten by 21 points. Coming 3rd were Greece with 147 points - giving the country their best result up till this point. France came 4th with 142 points, and in 5th place were Sweden with 100 points.\n\nDave Benton, who was born and raised in Aruba, was the first black person and, at the age of 50 years and 101 days, the oldest contestant at the time to win the contest.\n\nCopenhagen, the capital of Denmark was the host city for the 46th edition of Eurovision. The venue choice for the contest was Parken Stadium, a football stadium in the Indre Østerbro district of Copenhagen, Denmark, built from 1990–1992.\n\nThe logo of the 2001 Eurovision Song Contest was made out of four circles, placed in the shape of a heart. The four circles were also present in the stage design, with the light construction was made of the same four rings.\n\nThe Danish national broadcaster faced some problems whilst organising the contest such as the lack of funds and the search for a suitable venue. The event was eventually located in the football stadium Parken, after the company running the stadium agreed to add a retractable roof to the building. This solution made it the biggest venue ever to host a Eurovision Song Contest, but the scale of it wasn't entirely a success: many of the 38,000 people in the audience could not see the stage, and for many entries the hall appeared to be too big.\n\nChanges occurred in the qualification process for the 2002 Contest: along with the \"Big 4\" countries, the top 15 placed countries would qualify for next year's competition. The other spots for 2002 would be filled by countries that were excluded from the 2001 contest because of their low point average for the years 1996–2000.\n\nControversy was again rife in the contest: the United Kingdom TV commentator Terry Wogan repeatedly made critical comments about the hosts and dubbed them \"Doctor Death and the Tooth Fairy/The Little Mermaid\" after providing their entire commentary in rhyming couplets. The Danes were so offended that the BBC was obliged to issue an apology on Wogan's comments. Controversy also surrounded the Swedish song, \"Listen To Your Heartbeat\", which was repeatedly accused as a plagiarism of the Belgian entry for the 1996 Contest, \"Liefde is een kaartspel\". Eventually the EBU decided for the matter to be settled in court, with the song allowed to compete as long as the courts did not declare the song as plagiarism.\nAt first this was denied by the Swedish songwriters, one of whom was , but after the Belgian songwriters and the author's organisation SABAM pressed for legal action, a cash settlement was agreed.\n\nDuring the voting the Danish band Aqua performed with a medley of their singles, with percussion ensemble Safri Duo performing in the medley. Although enjoyable, people complained about it being a little bit \"rude\" as there was some swearing during the performance, both at the beginning and end of \"Barbie Girl\".\n\nDue to the EBU's relegation rule of the lowest ranked countries from the contest had to miss the follow year's contest, meant several countries had to withdraw, while relegated countries from the 1999 contest were able to return this year. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece, Lithuania, Poland, Portugal, and Slovenia returned, while Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, Macedonia, Romania, and Switzerland, the seven countries with the lowest average result in the past five contests, were relegated. This brought the total number of participating countries to twenty-three.\n\nTanel Padar was a backing vocalist for Ines in 2000.\n\nThe majority of participating countries held a televote, where the top ten most voted for songs were awarded the 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 points. This year the EBU introduced for the first time a mix of voting systems (50% televoting and 50% jury) for those countries that didn't want to use 100% televoting. Only three votes were allowed per household.\nAccording to the EBU rules (published on 05/10/00), every broadcaster was free to make a choice between the full televoting system and the mixed 50-50 system. In exceptional circumstances, where televoting was not possible at all, only a jury was used: Bosnia & Herzegovina, Turkey and Russia. Only a few countries are confirmed to have used the mixed voting system: Croatia, Greece and Malta. \nBelow is a summary of all 12 points in the final:\n\nThe table below shows the order in which votes were cast during the 2001 contest along with the spokesperson who was responsible for announcing the votes for their respective country. Each national broadcaster also sent a commentator to the contest, in order to provide coverage of the contest in their own native language. Details of the commentators and the broadcasting station for which they represented are also included in the table below.\n\nEurovision Song Contest: Copenhagen 2001 was the official compilation album of the 2001 Contest, put together by the European Broadcasting Union and released by EMI Records and CMC International on 5 May 2001. The album featured all 23 songs that entered in the 2001 contest.\n"}
{"id": "56002225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56002225", "title": "FMW Fall Spectacular", "text": "FMW Fall Spectacular\n\nFall Spectacular was the name of a major professional wrestling event produced by Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling (FMW) usually held in the month of September. It was considered to be one of the four major shows of FMW, alongside FMW Anniversary Show, Summer Spectacular and Year End Spectacular. The event was first used as a subtitle for the FMW 2nd Anniversary Show in 1991 and the FMW 3rd Anniversary Show in 1992 as both events took place in the month of September. This title would be re-used with the subtitle \"Kawasaki Legend\" in 1997 before FMW discontinued the use of these events as it began producing pay-per-view events in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "50922656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50922656", "title": "Good Girls Revolt", "text": "Good Girls Revolt\n\nGood Girls Revolt is an American period drama web television series. It is inspired by Lynn Povich's 2013 book \"The Good Girls Revolt\" and based on real-life events. The show was released on October 28, 2016, on Amazon Video.\n\nOn December 2, 2016, Amazon cancelled the series after one season.\n\nThe series follows a group of young female researchers at \"News of the Week\" magazine in the revolutionary times of 1969. Women in the newsroom are relegated to low-level positions. Many researchers are more talented and better educated than their male counterparts (the reporters), and do writing that the reporters incorporate directly into their stories, yet are paid less. The women have a sense that they're paid a lot less, and during the series it emerges just how much lower their pay is. But also at issue is the fact that their writing is not recognized: on the rare occasions when a female researcher's writing is openly accepted (such as when a male reporter quit just before a deadline), the story is nonetheless published under the man's name only. \n\n\n\n\"Good Girls Revolt\" has received generally positive reviews from critics, with most comparing it to \"Mad Men\" and some calling it a female version of that show. On Rotten Tomatoes, a score of 71% was reported with its critical consensus saying: \"\"Good Girls Revolt\" features a compelling true story, told by a talented cast, even if the period drama hasn't yet achieved \"Mad Men\"-level mastery\". On Metacritic, a 66 out of 100 metascore was reported indicating, \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2893180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2893180", "title": "Green Corn Ceremony", "text": "Green Corn Ceremony\n\nThe Green Corn Ceremony (Busk) is an annual ceremony practiced among various Native American peoples associated with the beginning of the yearly corn harvest. Busk is a term given to the ceremony by white traders, the word being a corruption of the Creek word \"puskita\" for \"a fast\". These ceremonies have been documented ethnographically throughout the North American Eastern Woodlands and Southeastern tribes. Historically, it involved a first fruits rite in which the community would sacrifice the first of the green corn to ensure the rest of the crop would be successful. These Green Corn festivals were practiced widely throughout southern North America by many tribes evidenced in the Mississippian people and throughout the Mississippian Ideological Interaction Sphere. Green Corn festivals are still held today by many different Southeastern Woodland tribes. The Green Corn Ceremony typically occurs in late July–August, determined locally by the ripening of the corn crops. The ceremony is marked with dancing, feasting, fasting and religious observations.\n\nThe Green Corn Ceremony is a celebration of many types, representing new beginnings. Also referred to as the Great Peace Ceremony, it is a celebration of thanksgiving to \"Hsaketumese\" (The Breath Maker) for the first fruits of the harvest, and a New Year festival as well.\n\nThe Busk is the celebration of the New Year, so at this time all offenses are forgiven except for rape and murder, which are executable or banishable offenses. In modern tribal towns and Stomp Dance societies only the ceremonial fire, the cook fires and certain other ceremonial objects will be replaced. Everyone usually begins gathering by the weekend prior to the ceremony, working, praying, dancing and fasting off and on until the big day.\n\nThe whole festival tends to last seven-eight days, if you include the historical preparation involved (without the preparation, it lasts about four days).\n\nThe first day of the ceremony, people set up their campsites on one of the square ceremonial grounds. Following this, there is a feast of the remains of last year's crop, after which all the men of the community begin fasting (historically, the women were considered too weak to participate). That night there is a social stomp dance, unique to the Muscogee and Southeastern cultures.\n\nBefore dawn on the second day, four brush-covered arbors are set up on the edges of the ceremonial grounds, one in each of the sacred directions. For the first dance of the day, the women of the community participate in a Ribbon or Ladies Dance, which involves fastening rattles and shells to their legs perform a purifying dance with special ribbon-clad sticks to prepare the ceremonial ground for the renewal ceremony. The ceremonial fire is set in the middle of four logs laid crosswise, so as to point to the four directions. The \"Mico\" (head priest) takes out a little of each of the new crops (not just corn, but beans, squash, wild plants, and others) rubbed with bear oil, and it is offered together with some meat as \"first-fruits\" and an atonement for all sins. The fire (which has been re-lit and nurtured with a special medicine by the \"Mico\") will be kept alive until the following year's Green Corn Ceremony. In traditional times, the women would sweep out their cook-fires and the rest of their homes and collect the filth from this, as well as any old clothing and furniture to be burnt and replaced with new items for the new year. The women then bring the coals of the fire into their homes, to rekindle their home fires. They can then bake the new fruits of the year over this fire (also to be eaten with bear oil). Many Creeks also practice the \"sapi\" or ceremonial scratches, a type of bloodletting in the mid morning, and in many tribes the men and women might rub corn milk, ash, white clay, or analogous mixtures over themselves and bathe as a form of purification.\n\nThey also drink a medicine referred to as \"passv\", also referred to as the \"White Drink.\" (English traders referred to it as the \"Black Drink\" due to its dark liquid which froths white when shaken before drinking). This White Drink, known to strangers as Carolina Tea, is a caffeine-laden mixture of seven to fourteen different herbs, the main ingredient being \"assi-luputski\", Creek for \"small leaves\" of Yaupon Holly. This medicine was intended to help receive purification, as it is a purgative when consumed in mass amounts. (Historically, only men drank enough of the liquid to throw up.) The purgative was consumed to clean the dietary tract of last year's crop and to truly renew oneself for the new year.\n\nWhile the second day tends to focus on the women's dance, the third is focused on the men's.\n\nAfter the purification of the second day, men of the community perform the Feather Dance to heal the community.\n\nThe fasting usually ends by supper-time after the word is given by the women that the food is prepared, at which time the men march in single-file formation down to a body of water, typically a flowing creek or river for a ceremonial dip in the water and private men’s meeting. They then return to the ceremonial square and perform a single Stomp Dance before retiring to their home camps for a feast. During this time, the participants in the medicine rites are not allowed to sleep, as part of their fast. At midnight a Stomp Dance ceremony is held, which includes feasting and continues on through the night. This ceremony usually ends shortly after dawn.\n\nThe fourth day has friendship dances at dawn, games, and people later pack up and return home with their feelings of purification and forgiveness. Fasting from alcohol, sexual activity, and open water will continue for another four days.\n\n\"Puskita,\" commonly referred to as the \"Green Corn Ceremony\" or \"Busk,\" is the central and most festive holiday of the traditional Muscogee people. It represents not only the renewal of the annual cycle, but of the spirit and traditions of the Muscogee. This is representative of the return of summer, the ripening of the new corn, and the common Native American traditions of environmental and agricultural renewal.\n\nHistorically in the Seminole tribe, 12-year-old boys are declared men at the Green Corn Ceremony, and given new names by the chief as a mark of their maturity.\n\nSeveral tribes still participate in these ceremonies each year, but tribes who have historic tradition within the ceremony include the Iroquois, Cherokee, Creek, Choctaw, and Seminole tribes. Each of these tribes may have their own variations of celebration, dances and traditions, but each performs a new-year's ceremony involving fasting and several other comparisons each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43059346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43059346", "title": "Hannibal (Leckie novel)", "text": "Hannibal (Leckie novel)\n\nHannibal is a 1995 historical novel by Scottish writer Ross Leckie. The book relates the exploits of Hannibal's invasion of Rome beginning in 218 BC, narrated by the Carthaginian general in his retirement. It was the first of the \"Carthage\" trilogy, covering the Punic Wars. The novel received mixed reviews, mainly due to the extreme violence occasionally described in the narrative.\n\nBeginning with the general’s youth and a potted history of Carthage in an attempt to explain Hannibal’s hatred of Rome, the bulk of the story is confined to the invasion of Italy and the epic journey Hannibal’s army took to reach its goal, including the voyage across the Straits of Gibraltar with his elephants on rafts, the far from easy passage through Spain and of course, the incredible feat of taking his entire army with their elephants over the Alps. The events described are often violent and sometimes quite horrific in their cruelty both on the journey and in the fighting which took place on Italian soil as Hannibal’s army sweeps through the Italian countryside seeking to out-manoeuvre his Roman opponents.\n\n"}
{"id": "27409999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27409999", "title": "International Comics Festival \"Salon stripa\"", "text": "International Comics Festival \"Salon stripa\"\n\nInternational Comics Festival is an annual event organized and led by Belgrade’s Student Cultural Center (SKC). The Festival is the biggest comics event in Serbia, and one of the most important in the region. Each year, the Festival is being held during the last week of September (from Thursday to Sunday).\n\nFestival is based on: the open international competition for authors of all ages from around the world, worldwide most important comic authors presentations with their personal appearances, revalorization of domestic comic scene from early beginning to present days, young talents recognition and support, popularization of comics and similar artistic expressions such as animation and illustration through the various exhibitions and educational programs.\n\nBrian Bolland (United Kingdom), Jean-Marc Thevenet (France), Adrian Smith (United Kingdom), Olivier Ledroit (France), John Higgins (United Kingdom), Igor Kordey (Croatia), David Lloyd (United Kingdom), Esad T. Ribić (Croatia), Matt Hollingsworth (USA), Gyorgy Palfi (Hungary), Kostas Aronis (Greece), Gregg Cox (USA), Aleksandar Sotirovski (Macedonia), Tihomir Tikulin (Croatia), Darijo Antunović (Croatia), Marko Šunjić (Croatia), Iztok Sitar (Slovenia), Bart Nauwelaerts (Belgium), Rufus Dayglo (United Kingdom), R.M. Guéra (Serbia/Spain), Enrique Sanchez Abuli (Spain), Marco Nizzoli (Italy), Luca Enoch (Italy), Paul Gravett (United Kingdom), Robert Crumb, Aline Kominsky-Crumb, Gilbert Shelton, Roberto Diso (Italy), Borivoj Dovniković (Croatia), Manuele Fior, Moreno Burattini, Walter Venturi (Italy), Pat Moriarity (USA), Paolo Monteiro (Portugal), Bryan Talbot, Mary M. Talbot, Petar Meseldžija, Helena Klakocar, Nicolas Grivel, Dejan Nenadov, Olivier Dobremel.\n\nThe most important domestic authors and comic book pioneers, well renowned beyond the Serbian borders, won the Festival life achievement award: Zoran Janjetov and Aleksandar Zograf (2004), Bane Kerac (2005), Željko Pahek (2006), Žika Bogdanović (2007), Srećko Jovanović (2008), Rajko Milošević Gera (2009), Novica Djukić (2010), Novica Kruljević (2011), Petar Radičević (2012), Lazo Sredanović (2013), Radivoj Bogičević (2014), Zdravko Zupan (2015), Gradimir Smudja (2016), Marko Stojanović (2017).\n\nIn the first twelve years, over a 2000 authors from 57 countries worldwide including Serbia took part in the Festival comics contest. Among them, over 500 were in the \"15 years of age or below\" contest category. From 2003 to 2015, contestants represented following countries: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Columbia, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Hungary, Germany, Greece, India, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Macedonia, Malaysia, Mexico, Moldova, Montenegro, Myanmar, Netherlands, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Scotland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Uruguay, USA, Uzbekistan.\n\nPrevious winners of the Festival contest were: Nebojša Cvetković (Serbia, 2003); Maja Veselinović (Serbia, 2004); Mijat Mijatović (Serbia, 2005); Miroslav Marić (Serbia, 2006); Siniša Banović / Dejan Vujić (Serbia, 2007); Alem Ćurin (Croatia, 2008); Marian Mirescu / Cristian Ioan Pacurariu (Romania, 2009); Tihomir Čelanović (Serbia, 2010); Marko Stojanović / Jovan Ukropina (Serbia, 2011); Aleksa Gajić (Serbia, 2012), Miloš Slavković (2013), Dragana Stojiljković and Dražen Kovačević (Serbia, 2014), Nenad Pejčić and Igor Krstić (Serbia, 2015), Daniele Giardini (Italy) and Jelena Đorđević (Serbia, 2016), Darko Macan and Fran Strukan (Croatia, 2017) .\n"}
{"id": "47277945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47277945", "title": "Iraqi beauty pageants", "text": "Iraqi beauty pageants\n\nMiss Iraq is a national beauty pageant in Iraq.\n\nThe Miss Iraq has been founded in 1947 and in 1972 the country participated in Miss Universe history. Wijdan Sulyman was crowned Hasna'a Al-Iraq (or Belle of Iraq) in 1972 and is the first known Iraqi woman to hold a national beauty title. She was the first Iraqi Pageant winner to participate in Miss Universe.\n\nIn 2015 the first season after 43 years absence, the official national beauty contest of Iraq recognized by Ministry of Culture, Tourism & Antiquities has been held in Baghdad. The Miss Iraq titles set to be three categories which are Miss Iraq, Iraq's Maiden of Beauty and Mesopotamian Princess.\n\nThe pageant is organized by a group of civil activists, leaders from the beauty/fashion community and with the support of the Ministry of Culture, Tourism & Antiquities of Iraq.\n\nThe Miss Iraq plans to return and debut to some International pageants like Miss Universe. Recently, Miss Iraq has been signed up to participate at the Miss Earth by the second Runner-up of 2015, Miss Iraq pageant.\n\n"}
{"id": "583187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=583187", "title": "Jesus H. Christ", "text": "Jesus H. Christ\n\n\"Jesus H. Christ\" is a expletive interjection referencing Jesus Christ. It is typically uttered in anger, surprise, or frustration, though sometimes also with humorous intent. \n\nThe earliest use of the phrase is unknown, but in his autobiography, Mark Twain (1835–1910) observed that it was in general use even in his childhood. Twain refers to an episode from 1847, when he was working as a printer's apprentice; Smith (1994) tells the tale thus:\n\n[Twain] recounts a practical joke a friend played on a revival preacher when Twain was an apprentice in a printing shop that Alexander Campbell, a famous evangelist then visiting Hannibal, hired to print a pamphlet of his sermon. While checking the galleys, Twain's fellow apprentice, Wales McCormick, found he had to make room for some dropped words, which he managed by shortening Jesus Christ on the same line to J. C. As soon as Campbell had read the proofs, he swept indignantly into the shop and commanded McCormick, \"So long as you live, don't you ever diminish the Savior's name again. Put it all in.\" The puckish McCormick obeyed, and then some: he set Jesus H. Christ and printed up all the pamphlets.\n\nSmith suggests (1994:331-2) that \"Jesus H. Christ\" is a specifically American profanity, and indicates that at least in his experience it is uttered primarily by men. Quinion (2009), a British author, likewise specifies the phrase as belonging to American English.\n\nThe frequency of use of the expression – in books only – may be traced on the Google Ngram Viewer utility. It appears to have been vanishingly rare in books up to about 1930, and began a sharp ascent in frequency starting in about 1970 and continuing to the present.\n\nMultiple authors emphasize the practice of placing a strong stress on the \"H\", relating it in various ways to expletive infixation. Thus Quinion writes:\n\nIts long survival must have a lot to do with its cadence, and the way that an especially strong stress can be placed on the H. You might also think of it as an example of emphatic infixing that loosely fits the models of words like \"abso-bloody-lutely\" or \"tribu-bloody-lation\".\n\nSimilar remarks were made by the linguist Dwight Bolinger, who mentions \"Jesus H. Christ\" in a discussion of the strategies used by English speakers to add additional stresses to \"highly charged words\" for purposes of emphasis. Horberry suggests \"The strong emphasis on the H somehow improves the rhythm of its host phrase.\" The \"Green's Dictionary of Slang\" says \"the H is redundant other than for rhythm\".\n\nUsing the name of Jesus Christ as an oath has been common for many centuries. But the precise origins of the letter \"H\" in the expression \"Jesus H. Christ\" are obscure. While many explanations have been proposed, the most widely accepted derivation is from the divine monogram of Christian symbolism. The symbol, derived from the first three letters of the Greek name of Jesus (), is transliterated iota-eta-sigma, which can look like IHS, (with lunate sigma), JHS or JHC (\"J\" was historically a mere variant of \"I\"; see J).\n\nFor how this learned-sounding abbreviation could have served as the basis for vulgar slang, Smith offers the hypothesis that it was noticed by ordinary people when it was worn as a decoration on the vestments of Anglican (i.e., in America, Episcopal) clergy. The \"JHC\" variant would particularly invite interpretation of the \"H\" as part of a name.\n\nIf this is the most likely origin of the \"H\", there remains the issue of folk etymology; that is, the sense shared by ordinary people (not necessarily historically correct) of where the H comes from. Here, a possible origin is the name \"Harold\"; which indeed is mentioned by Smith (1994:32) as the basis of a variant form, \"Jesus Harold Christ\". The \"Harold\" may arise from a common misinterpretation (often by children) of the phrase in the Lord's Prayer, \"Our Father who art in heaven hallowed be thy name.\" This phrase can be mistakenly interpreted as specifying the name of the Deity (\"thy name is ... \"), rather than the true reading, which is \"may thy name be hallowed\". The confusion would arise from the phonetic similarity of \"hallowed\" ( [ˈhæloʊd]) to \"Harold\" (IPA [ˈhærəld]).\n\nIan Ransom reports another folk etymology in a memoir of his childhood. The context is how local adults habitually yelled at children:\n\nI hailed from devoted Jesus \"H.\" Christ territory. As a child, \"H\" was a middle initial meaning \"Holy\" and included to honor Jesus while his name was being used to scramble young brains into malleable balls of pure fear. Most folks bellowed the simple \"Jesus Christ,\" so children felt privileged to hear that added \"H.\"\n\nIn a joke made by biology students, the H is said to stand for \"Haploid\"; the implication being that since by the doctrine of the Virgin birth Jesus had no biological father, his genome would have been inherited entirely from his mother, the Virgin Mary. For the scientific background of the joke see Ploidy.\n\nThe number of variant forms, usually with \"H\" replaced by something longer, is vast. \"Jesus Harold Christ\" (i.e. - \"Our Father, who art in Heaven, Harold be thy name...\") is mentioned above. Smith notes Jesus Holy Christ, Jesus Henry Christ, and Jesus H. Particular Christ. \"Green's Dictionary of Slang\" gives Jeezus K. Reist, Jesus F. Christ, Jesus H, Jesus H. Mahogany Christ, Jesus Hopping Christ, Jesus Johnnycake Christ, Jesus X. Christ, and Judas H. Christ.\n\nFor Smith, the very presence of so many spelled-out variants is part of the humor -- and blasphemy -- inherent in \"Jesus H. Christ\". He suggests that the H offers \"the power of taking the Lord's name in vain by adding something to it that the imagination is invited to complete: What does the H. stand for? -- whatever the errant imagination proposes and the imaginer is disposed to enjoy.\"\n\nIn J. D. Salinger's novel \"The Catcher in the Rye\", the main character Holden Caulfield utters the expression when he learns that his womanizing roommate Stradlater will be going on a date with his old friend Jane Gallagher.\n\n\"Jesus H. Christ\" is the first line of Edward Albee's play \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\" Uttered by Martha, it is the opening salvo of a drama in which the characters express their feelings with ferocious directness. In the early 1960s, the term was considered sufficiently potent as a vulgarism that for a Boston production censors required that it be replaced by a euphemism, for which Albee chose \"Mary H. Magdalene\".\n\nThe phrase is also used in such films as \"Jaws\" and \"Full Metal Jacket\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55224684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55224684", "title": "Käsestrasse Bregenzerwald", "text": "Käsestrasse Bregenzerwald\n\nThe Käsestraße Bregenzerwald (Cheese Street of the Bregenz Forest) is a non-profit organization and route which links cheese-producing businesses of the Bregenz Forest in Austria. The organization is a group of Bregenzerwald farmers, craftsmen and tradesmen. All members and partners of the Käsestrasse contribute to preserving Bregenzerwald's agriculture, the alpine transhumance and its domestic products.\n\nThe Käsestraße Bregenzerwald as an organization exists since 1998 and includes various roads of the Bregenzer forest. The organization has more than 200 members (2017) and there are all sorts of farmers: farms with farmyards, village farms, Alpine farms. It is a non-profit association promoting Bregenzerwald's cheese culture. The aim is to maintain and promote the regional value, to preserve the regional small structures and to shape the Bregenzerwald region as a cheese region.\n\nThe high value and importance of cheese origins in the regional history of people. Milk and dairy products, especially the so-called mountain cheeses (Bergkäse) produced on the alpine pastures and village dairies, were the basic food for the whole year of the Walser population for centuries. The cheese soon became an important export product, thus further developing its value for the economy.\n\nFor producing the dairy-products, the local farmers drove livestock between the valleys in winter, the medium-high pastures in spring and high-pastures in summer. The milk obtained, separated from cow, goat and sheep milk (mainly cow raw milk), is transported down the road by means of a transport cableway or handcart or car, where a milk tank takes up the milk. The tanks are then brought to a cheese factory (today near Hittisau), where cheese production starts.\n\nThis so-called alpine transhumance (also known as \"Maiensäß\") shaped much of the landscape in the Alps and is still practiced today. Farms, farmers huts and alpine pastures are part of the typical scenery in Vorarlberg. The life of local people was heavily influenced by this form of seasonal migration and they developed traditional Alpine culture, such as Yodel, Alphorn or Schwingen.\n\nThe Käsestraße Bregenzerwald starts in Bregenz and runs along the Bregenzerwaldstraße L 200 through all the villages and the connected Alps. Along this street, there are many farmers, dairy-producers, shops and cheese-producers that can be visited.\n\nThe area was also integrated with its cheese varieties in 2005 as a region \"Bregenzerwälder Alpkäse\" (Bregenzer Forest alp-cheese) and Bergkäse (mountain-cheese) in the project \"Genussregion Österreich\", which is an organization that promotes traditional food and food-products of Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "44500845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44500845", "title": "List of international presidential trips made by Vladimir Putin", "text": "List of international presidential trips made by Vladimir Putin\n\nThis is a list of presidential trips made by Vladimir Putin. During his presidency, which began with his inauguration on May 7, 2000, he has traveled to 50 different countries internationally as of March 2008, in addition to many more trips made domestically within Russia.\n\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2000:\n\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2001:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2002:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2003:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2004:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2005:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2006:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2007:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2008:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2012:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2013:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2014:\n\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2015:\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2016:\n\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2017:\n\nThe following are the international trips made by President Putin in 2018:\nThe following are future international trips to be made by President Putin:\nThe following are potential international trips for President Putin:\nVladimir Putin is scheduled to attend the following summits as Russian President.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1347949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1347949", "title": "List of objects dropped on New Year's Eve", "text": "List of objects dropped on New Year's Eve\n\nOn New Year's Eve, many localities in America mark the beginning of a year through the raising or lowering of an object. Many of these events are patterned off festivities that have been held at New York City's Times Square since 1908, where a large crystal ball is lowered down a pole atop One Times Square (beginning its descent at 11:59:00 p.m. local time, and concluding at midnight). In turn, the event was inspired by the time balls used by ship navigators in the 19th century to calibrate their chronometers.\n\nWhilst some of these events use a ball in imitation of Times Square, many \"drops\" utilize objects that represent an aspect of local culture, geography, or history. Ball drops are by far the most common in, but not exclusive to, the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNew York holds many elaborate drops, particularly the ball drop at Times Square and at the Electric Tower in Buffalo. The state falls in second place for the most items dropped on New Year's Eve.\n\n]\n\n\n\nPennsylvania is the state where the most objects are dropped on New Year's Eve.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37230968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37230968", "title": "List of wars involving Iraqi Kurdistan", "text": "List of wars involving Iraqi Kurdistan\n\nThis is a list of wars that Iraqi Kurdistan has been involved in, since the establishment of Iraq in 1932.\n"}
{"id": "48246993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48246993", "title": "Luna 27", "text": "Luna 27\n\nLuna 27 (Luna-Resurs lander) is a planned lunar lander mission by the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos) with collaboration by the European Space Agency (ESA) to send a lander to the South Pole–Aitken basin, an unexplored area on the far side of the Moon. Its objective will be to detect and characterise lunar polar volatiles. The mission is a continuation of the Luna-Glob programme. \n\nThe purpose is to prospect for minerals, volatiles (nitrogen, water, carbon dioxide, ammonia, hydrogen, methane and sulfur dioxide.), and lunar water ice in permanently shadowed areas of the Moon and investigate the potential use of these natural resources. On the long term, Russia considers building a habitable base on the Moon's far side that would bring scientific and commercial benefits. \n\nEurope's participation in the mission received final approval at a meeting of ministers in December 2016. ESA will contribute with the development of a new type of automated landing system, and will also be providing the 'PROSPECT' package, consisting of a drilling, sampling, sample handling, processing and analysis package. The percussion drill is designed to go down to and collect cemented ice samples for an onboard miniaturised laboratory called ProSPA. The scientific payload consists of fifteen instruments. \n\nThe lander mission was announced in November 2014 by Russia, who is planning the launch for 2023.\n\nThe lander will feature fifteen science instruments that will analyse the regolith, plasma in the exosphere, dust, and seismic activity. The payload will include a sampling drill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44049089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44049089", "title": "Match Against Poverty", "text": "Match Against Poverty\n\nThe Match Against Poverty is a friendly football match that has taken place every year since 2003 to raise funds to support specific development projects selected by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The UNDP organized the game with the help of UNDP Goodwill Ambassadors Zinedine Zidane and Ronaldo, is supported by both FIFA and UEFA, and raises awareness and mobilizes public opinion for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that were created in 2000.\n\nSince 2003, 12 Matches against Poverty have raised nearly US$ 4 million to support UNDP's work, including that on post-earthquake reconstruction in Haiti and Pakistan, Typhoon recovery in the Philippines, post-famine relief in the Horn of Africa and anti-poverty projects in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America.\n\nAdopted in 2000 and re–affirmed by the leaders of 191 countries at the UN Summit in 2005, the Millennium Development Goals seek to halve world poverty by 2015 by setting targets for rolling back hunger, disease, illiteracy, environmental degradation and discrimination against women. Thus the Match Against Poverty was created in 2003 at the initiative of Zidane and Ronaldo. At the launch of the event, Ronaldo said, ″We use this match as a way to raise funds and to make people aware of the fact that the solution to this problem is in our hands. It is by working together that we will all win the Match against Poverty.″ The first match included the likes of David Beckham, Edwin van der Sar, Samuel Eto'o, Roberto Carlos, Robinho and Rivaldo, with ″Ronaldo & Friends″ defeating ″Zidane & Friends″ 4−3 in front of 30,000 people at St. Jakob-Park. The match raised more than $800,000 for anti-poverty projects in developing countries.\n\nIn 2008, Ronaldo and Zidane invited Marta to play in UNDP’s Match Against Poverty in Fez, Morocco, where she became the first woman in the history of football to play in an internationally sanctioned men’s football match.\n\nOn 19 November 2008, Zidane and Ronaldo took part in the fifth annual Match Against Poverty in Málaga, Spain, which ended in a 2–2 draw. The ambassadors, who collaborated in conceiving the yearly event to benefit the United Nations Development Programme, regularly captain their respective teams consisting of active footballers, other professional athletes and celebrities. Zidane, a UN Goodwill Ambassador since 2001, stated his reason for being part of the event was because \"everyone can do something to make the world a better place.\"\nThe tenth Match Against Poverty was held in Porto Alegre in 2012. It followed nine successful editions that took place in Basel, Madrid, Düsseldorf, Marseille, Málaga, Fez, Lisbon, Athens and Hamburg. Each year funds raised support specific projects in different countries facing difficult challenges. Proceeds from the tenth Match in Brazil were split between two projects – one in Brazil and one in Cape Verde, West Africa, both aimed at re-integrating marginalized youth. In Brazil, proceeds funded the “Rede Esporte para Mudança Social (REMS)” a project that promotes poverty reduction and social inclusion through sports. The match was played in front of more than 50,000 fans at the Arena do Grêmio on 18 December 2012 and raised $360,000 for the two youth-oriented projects.\n\nIn 2013, Global Ambassador and football goalkeeper Iker Casillas helped launch a national website on volunteerism and social innovation in Uzbekistan through the UNDP and Match Against Poverty platform to encourage Uzbek youth to volunteer and become active in sport.\n\nThe eleventh match was held on 4 March 2014 at the Stade de Suisse in Bern, Switzerland with the proceeds going to recovery efforts in the Philippines in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan, one of the most devastating storms in history. Participants of the eleventh match included Robert Pires, Claude Makélélé, Paolo Maldini, Freddie Ljungberg, Luis Figo, Pavel Nedvěd, Marta and Ruud Gullit. The match was played against BSC Young Boys, who donated some of the $190,000 profits to the club’s partner charity, the Laureus Foundation Switzerland to support sports-related projects. The eleventh Match Against Poverty also received a donation of $24,000 from Sony through their annual fund raising initiative \"the 46th Aino Izumi\" at the Sony Building in Ginza, Tokyo.\n\nThe 12th Match against Poverty took place in Saint-Etienne, France on Monday 20 April 2015, where Ronaldo and Zidane teamed up with other football stars against past and present players of French Ligue 1 side AS Saint-Étienne. According to UNDP, \"two thirds of all proceeds will go towards helping the hardest-hit countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone build back better from the Ebola epidemic.\"\n\nUNDP, along with other UN agencies, has long enlisted the voluntary services and support of prominent individuals as Goodwill Ambassadors to highlight these causes. Their fame helps amplify the urgent and universal message of human development and international cooperation, helping to accelerate achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.\nThey articulate the UNDP development philosophy and programmes of self-reliant opportunities and motivate people to act in the interest of improving their own lives and those of their fellow citizens.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54138575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54138575", "title": "Midnight Son (opera)", "text": "Midnight Son (opera)\n\nMidnight Son is an opera by composer Gordon Kerry and librettist Louis Nowra. The contemporary opera is inspired by the true story of the murder of Melbourne woman Maria Korp.\n\n\"Midnight Son\" was premiered by Victorian Opera in May 2012 at the Merlyn Theatre, CUB Malthouse in Melbourne.\n\nIt was nominated for Best New Australian Work and Best Original Score at the 2013 Helpmann Awards.\n"}
{"id": "5677127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5677127", "title": "Miracle in the Andes", "text": "Miracle in the Andes\n\nMiracle in the Andes (in Spanish \"Milagro en los Andes\") is a 2006 non-fiction account of a rugby team's survival on a glacier in the Andes for 72 days by survivor Nando Parrado and co-author Vince Rause. It was published by Crown.\n\nNando Parrado co-wrote the 2006 book \"Miracle in the Andes: 72 Days on the Mountain and My Long Trek Home\", with Vince Rause. In \"Miracle in the Andes\", Nando Parrado returns to the events described in Piers Paul Read's 1974 book, \"\" (which tells the story of the people, most of whom were part of a Uruguayan rugby team consisting of alumni of Stella Maris College (Montevideo), who were on Uruguayan Air Force Flight 571, which crashed into the Andes mountains on October 13, 1972). When what little food they had ran out after ten days, those still alive agreed that after their death the others should eat their bodies to survive.\n\nPiers Paul Read's version was published two years after the rescue and was based upon interviews with the survivors. \"Miracle of the Andes,\" however, is told from Nando Parrado's point of view 34 years later.\n\n\"Publisher's Weekly\" wrote that it is \"more than a companion to the 1970s best-selling chronicle of the disaster, \"Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors\", this is a fresh, gripping page-turner that will satisfy adventure readers, and a complex reflection on camaraderie, family and love.\" \"The Library Journal\" found the book to be, \"more introspective than Piers Paul Read's journalistic account, \"Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors\"...Parrado presents both the jaw-dropping realities of the 16 survivors' story and the life-altering lessons he learned from the experience\" .\nJon Krakauer, the author of\" Into Thin Air\", said the book is \"an astonishing account of an unimaginable ordeal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38437579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38437579", "title": "National Internment Camp for Women in Hovedøya", "text": "National Internment Camp for Women in Hovedøya\n\nThe National Internment Camp for Women in Hovedøya () was Norway's largest internment camp for women, located on the island of Hovedøya in Oslo. It was used to detain women who had been accused of having romantic or sexual liaisons with German soldiers during World War II.\n\nThe oldest buildings that were used as part of the camp on Hovedøya were built in 1914 as recruit training grounds for Hans Majestet Kongens Garde. The Kongens Garde held training exercises on the island for six weeks every summer, from 1 April to 15 October, every year until 1939. However, most of the buildings were built by the Germans when they took over the island in 1940 to house Wehrmacht soldiers. The facility, renamed \"Lager Hovedöen\", was expanded by 11 barracks with room for over 1,000 soldiers, a stockpile of explosives, and a field hospital with 100 beds. By the end of the war, the camp was abandoned until its use as an internment camp for women a few months later. After the internment camp closed, the barracks were used as housing for 150 families up until the late 1950s. Today, the only part of the camp that remains is a single barracks building near the ruins of Hovedøya Abbey.\n\nDuring the German occupation of Norway, the illegal press was very critical of women involved with German soldiers, since it was seen as fraternization with the enemy and a threat to the Norwegian resistance movement. In one of his radio broadcasts from London, Toralv Øksnevad warned, \"The women who don't reject the Germans will pay a terrible price the rest of their lives.\" However, even after the war the attitudes towards these women, commonly referred to as tyskertøser (), were overwhelmingly negative. An op-ed from Aftenposten in June 1945 read, \"To cut off the hair of a German whore is too mild a punishment. They should be hated and tormented in every way, both male and female traitors.\" The newspaper Nordlys suggested that the women be made to wear armbands marked with a \"T\" for tyskertøs. Out on the streets gangs of men, many of whom were former resistance fighters, would assault tyskertøser, shaving their heads or tearing their clothes off and painting them with a swastika.\n\nIt was decided that these women should be separated from the rest of the population. A few official reasons were given, including to protect the women from being assaulted and to both give them treatment for and protect Norwegian men from any sexually transmitted diseases that they might have. The first camp used to hold these women in the Oslo area was a disused German labor camp for political prisoners on Ljanskollen, west of Holmlia, that was repurposed to hold tyskertøser on June 14, 1945. However, the camp was very small, holding only 250 prisoners, and was deemed unfit for winter use, so it was decided that a new camp should be set up.\n\nThe official stance of the Norwegian government was that the internment camps were intended to protect the women from lynchings and prevent sexually transmitted diseases from spreading to Norwegian men, but the camp was also used to detain women who had lived \"scandalous lives\" or \"went against the general consensus\" about the German occupiers, as authorities explained in a 1945 interview with VG. During the war, the Germans had kept a register of women with STDs, including information on which of these women had had intercourse with German soldiers. When the war ended the Ministry of Health and Care Services took over the list and expanded it, adding any woman who had been accused of being a tyskertøs or detained at Hovedøya. So while official figures stated that 75% of the camp's prisoners were infected with syphilis or gonorrhea, the actual figures were between 20 and 30%.\n\nMost of the women detained in Hovedøya had not broken Norwegian law, since sexual relations with German soldiers was not considered treason, and as such they had not seen trial. However, to legally justify keeping them detained, laws were cited that were either created during the war by Nasjonal Samling or provisional laws intended to be used against Nazi soldiers or collaborators. The main provisional law used to justify the camp was a law created in June 1945 authorizing preventative measures against STDs and one from 1943 that gave the police authority to detain people without trial. To justify forced unpaid labor in the camp, the camp management cited a law created under the Nasjonal Samling government that allowed putting \"immoral\" women to work, despite the fact that all laws enacted during wartime were immediately repealed after the occupation ended.\n\nThe camp at Hovedøya was for the most part unchallenged by the media. Aftenposten described the detainees as \"the greatest danger to society,\" and Hovedøya was known colloquially as \"de fortapte pikers øy\" ().\n\nOn 1 October 1945, the Hovedøya facility began operation under the leadership of psychologist Adolf Hals. There were a total of 1,100 women detained at the Hovedøya camp, most of them Oslo residents in their 20s, along with at least 16 children, who were cared for by their mothers as no other family members would take care of them. The women were interned for as long as was deemed necessary by the police or health authority who sent them there—though the average sentence was two months, the women could be held there from anywhere between a few days to over six months. Some women who were considered particularly treasonous were transferred to Bredtveit Prison in northern Oslo.\n\nSince the women were never formally detained, their doors were left unlocked and their windows unbarred. However, many aspects of the facility's design indicated its true purpose as a prison camp. The camp was surrounded by tall barbed wire fences and searchlights at night to enforce the strict 9:00pm curfew. The camp was also patrolled by armed guards who were authorized to open fire if necessary, but luckily no such incidences occurred. Incoming mail to the inmates was often censored or withheld entirely. During the day, the women were also put to work around the camp, given menial tasks such as raking leaves, gardening, sewing, or laying rat poison. Any proceeds from their labor went directly to the camp.\n\nThe camp at Hovedøya was the largest of its kind with inmates from all over the country. However, there were many similar camps across Norway. The other main tyskertøs camp for the Oslo area was Hovelåsen outside Kongsvinger, which held 450 detainees. There were also small camps near most major Norwegian cities, such as in Tennebekk near Bergen, Selbu near Trondheim, Klekken near Hønefoss, and Skadberg near Stavanger.\n\nIn April 1946, the camp was visited by Minister of Social Affairs Sven Oftedal. During the war Oftedal had been imprisoned in Grini and Sachsenhausen concentration camps for his role in the Norwegian resistance movement. When he saw the treatment of women in the camp, the resemblance to the German camps was too strong, and he ordered it to be immediately shut down. The barracks were completely cleaned out and the women sent back to Oslo by the following month.\n\nWhen the women landed at Vippetangen in Oslo, they were forced to sign statements that they would not be seen in public with uniformed men or foreigners. But this was not the end of the punishment for some of these women, as about 3,500 Norwegian women who had married German soldiers were later deported to Germany. The Norwegian nationality law of 1924 allowed Norwegians to be married to foreigners and retain their citizenship, as long as they were living in Norway. However, a provisional law that was passed by Stortinget in 1946 that made an exception for women married to German soldiers. In a statement for Odelsting proposition no. 136, government minister Jens Christian Hauge said of the women:\n\nAside from a brief period between 1950 and 1955, these women were not allowed to reapply for citizenship for almost 45 years, when the deportation was reevaluated by Stortinget in 1989. In 2003, the Norwegian government finally apologized for the mistreatment of tyskertøser after the war. Though the camp at Hovedøya represented a dark chapter of Norway's history, at the time its prisoners provided a useful scapegoat for Norwegians who had suffered through a harsh German occupation. Terje A. Pedersen, a historian who focuses on the treatment of tyskertøser, wrote in his thesis: \"Admitting that these relationships could be merely love affairs between normal people would disrupt the black and white image of the Germans and the war. It would have normalized the relationship to Germany in a way that was completely unacceptable after the war.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22089046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22089046", "title": "Obscene libel", "text": "Obscene libel\n\nThe publication of an obscene libel was an offence under the common law of England. Prior to the abolition by section 1 of the Criminal Law Act 1967 of the distinction between felony and misdemeanour, it was regarded as a misdemeanour. It has been abolished in England and Wales and Northern Ireland.\n\nThe existence of this offence was denied by Hawkins; and by Holt, C.J., who said that it was within the jurisdiction of the spiritual courts.\n\nIt was an offence under the common law of England and Wales to publish an obscene libel. This was an indictable-only offence. However, section 2(4) of the Obscene Publications Act 1959 provided that a person publishing an article should not be proceeded against for an offence at common law consisting of the publication of any matter contained or embodied in that article where it was of the essence of the offence that the matter is \"obscene\". For this purpose the word \"obscene\" was defined by section 1(1) of that Act.\n\nLord Reid said:\n\nAccordingly, the effect of section 2(4) is that it was not possible for a person to be prosecuted for this offence, unless the definition of \"obscene\" at common law was wider than the statutory definition of \"obscene\". This was probably not the case, because the statutory definition is a paraphrase of the definition given by Lord Cockburn, J., in R v Hicklin (1868) L.R. 3 Q.B. 360 at 371.\n\nThe offence was abolished when section 73(c) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 came into force on 12 January 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2494255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494255", "title": "Printspying", "text": "Printspying\n\nPrintspying, a deviation from warspying, is when you connect to an insecure wireless printing network (instead of an insecure wireless internet connection or video feed), and proceed to print pornography and/or pictures from shock websites to the printer. Printspying is best when done when connected to a personal print network (home) but can also be done on business networks.\n"}
{"id": "25449256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25449256", "title": "Ronald Adam (actor)", "text": "Ronald Adam (actor)\n\nRonald George Hinings Adams OBE (31 December 1896 – 28 March 1979), known professionally as Ronald Adam, was a British officer of the RFC and RAF, an actor on stage and screen, and a successful theatre manager.\n\nAdam was born in Bromyard, Herefordshire on 31 December 1896, the son of Blake Adams and his wife Mona Robin. His parents and grandparents were all in the theatrical profession. He was educated at University College School.\n\nWhen still only 17 years old Adams volunteered to join the British Army on the outbreak of the First World War. On 2 December 1914 he was commissioned as a temporary Second Lieutenant in the 15th (Reserve) Battalion of the Middlesex Regiment. \nAdams soon transferred to the Royal Flying Corps (RFC) and served as an observer with No. 18 Squadron in France, before returning home to re-train as a pilot. \nOnce qualified as a pilot, Adams remained in Britain and flew Sopwith Camels with No. 44 Squadron on Home Defence duties. The squadron was based at Hainault Farm aerodrome in Essex and was pioneering the use of night-fighters against Zeppelin raids on London. \nHe was then posted back to France, still on Sopwith Camels, to No. 73 Squadron, at Champien. \nOn 1 April 1918, the Royal Flying Corps amalgamated with the Royal Naval Air Service (RNAS) to become the Royal Air Force (RAF), but Adams had barely had time to get used to the new title before he was shot down, on 7 April 1918, near Villers-Bretonneux in Northern France, either by Hans Kirschstein, or possibly Manfred von Richthofen and captured. \nAdams was badly wounded in the engagement and on the evening of his capture he was visited by a German orderly who passed on the compliments of von Richthofen. Ronald Adams spent eight months in hospitals and prison camps before he was repatriated on 17 December 1918.\n\nAfter the war he trained as a chartered accountant, but his interest moved to theatre. He dropped the final \"s\" from his surname and adopted the stage name \"Ronald Adam\".\nFrom 1924–26, he was engaged as manager for Leslie Henson and Dion Titheradge, and at the Little, His Majesty's, and Strand theatres. He entered on the management of the Embassy Theatre, in April 1932, with the production of \"Madame Pepita\", and made over 150 new productions and revivals from 1932–1939. Thirty of his productions were transferred to various West End theatres, including\n\"Ten Minute Alibi\", \"Close Quarters\", \"The Dominant Sex\", \"Professor Bernhardi\" and \"Judgment Day\".\nHe presented several plays on tour, and acted in many of them, both at the Embassy and on their transfer.\n\nHe made his film debut with \"Strange Boarders\", \"The Drum\" (both 1938) and \"Too Dangerous to Live\" (1939). Meanwhile, he continued with live theatre. At the Old Vic in June 1939 he played Lord Stagmantle in \"The Ascent of F6\" and at the Phoenix in November 1939, Judge Tsankov in \"Judgment Day\". He was director of Howard and Wyndham's Repertory Seasons in Edinburgh and Glasgow, 1938–39.\n\nOn the outbreak of the Second World War Ronald Adam rejoined the RAF as a Wing Commander and served from 1939–1945. During the Battle of Britain in the summer of 1940 he was the Fighter Controller for the Hornchurch sector. It was Adam's job to co-ordinate the fighter command interceptions by using data gathered by radar and ground observers and then to dispatch fighters to intercept. Jeffrey Quill, the distinguished Spitfire test pilot on attachment to 65 Squadron at Hornchurch during the Battle of Britain, wrote of Adam: 'Apart from being highly competent at the actual job, his voice had a quality of calm and unhesitating certainty. The contribution of such men to the outcome of the Battle of Britain was incalculable.'\n\nDuring the war he continued to take part in films, for example as a German bomber chief in \"The Lion Has Wings\" (1939), as Mons. Besnard in \"At the Villa Rose\" (1940) and as Sir Charles Fawcett in \"The Foreman Went to France\" (1942).\n\nHe was awarded the OBE in 1946.\n\nAfter 1946 he continued to act in live theatre. At the Garrick in March 1950 he played Mr Gibb in \"Mr Gillie\". He made his Broadway debut in December 1951 in Antony and Cleopatra at the Ziegfeld Theatre. He portrayed the Group Controller in \"Angels One Five\", a 1952 British war film about the Battle of Britain (Adam reprised his actual wartime role as a fighter Controller).\n\nHis main activity at this stage, however, was in film and television. From 1946 to 1978 he took part in over 140 film or television productions.\n\nHe married firstly Tanzi Cutava Barozzi; the marriage was dissolved. His second wife was Allyne Dorothy Franks. He had two children, Jane and David.\nAfter the Second World War Ronald Adam lived in Surbiton, Surrey, and died on 28 March 1979.\n\nAdam was part-adaptor of \"Professor Bernhardi\" and \"The Melody That Got Lost\", among other works.\nHe was the author of the plays\n\"An English Summer\" (1948), \"A Wind on the Heath\" (1949) and \"Marriage Settlement\" (1950), which he also produced.\n\nHe published a book on his theatrical memories:\nIn the middle of the war he wrote two novels arising from his experiences in the RAF. Initially they were published using the pseudonym \"Blake\",\nBoth of these were later republished under his own name.\nHe wrote again about his wartime experiences in:\n\n"}
{"id": "380266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380266", "title": "Rossini Opera Festival", "text": "Rossini Opera Festival\n\nThe Rossini Opera Festival (ROF) is an international music festival held in August of each year in Pesaro, Italy, the birthplace of the opera composer Gioachino Rossini. Its aim, in addition to studying the musical heritage of the composer, is to revive and perform his works in a unique setting that allows collaboration of scholars, artists, and audience. It is often simply referred to as the Pesaro Festival.\n\nPerformances are given in the 850-seat theatre built in 1818, the Teatro Rossini and, since 1988, the modified \"Palasport\" sports arena which holds 1,500. Since 2000 another venue, the Teatro Sperimentale (Experimental Theatre), has offered the opportunity to present smaller-scale or minor works by contemporaries of Rossini such as Mosca, Generali, and Coccia.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the Festival, it was not uncommon to see productions of Rossini's music taking place to mark occasions in his life and death. Thus, in 1868 when the composer died in Paris, his \"Stabat Mater (Rossini)\" was performed along with \"Semiramide\" and \"Otello\". The first centennial of Rossini's birth in 1892 saw \"L'occasione fa il ladro\" and the twentieth-century seasons saw many Rossini operas including many quite obscure ones.\n\nThe Festival was established in 1980 with the aim of making the world more aware of Rossini's neglected operas and presenting all of them in collaboration with the G. Ricordi & Co. music publishing house, which published their critical editions. Of the approximately three dozen operas written, only a handful are regularly presented.\nOn 13 August 1993, the Italian parliament unanimously approved the Special Law N. 319 \"Regulations in support of the Rossini Opera Festival\", which recognizes the Pesaro Festival's achievements in the reviving of Rossini's operas as entitled to be included among the state-supervised works of restoration of the national artistic heritage. The ensuing grant (of which parliament has recently approved the continuation) is financed from the funds of the \"Beni Culturali\".\n\nThe Rossini Festival has seen many of Rossini's lesser-known works revived, some of which have since entered the standard operatic repertoire.\n\nFrom the beginning, the Festival attracted some major singers including Marilyn Horne, Montserrat Caballé, Ruggero Raimondi, Samuel Ramey and Juan Diego Flórez. Based on press reports, some productions have been extremely controversial.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "28452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28452", "title": "Summary offence", "text": "Summary offence\n\nA summary offence is a crime in some common law jurisdictions that can be proceeded against summarily, without the right to a jury trial and/or indictment (required for an indictable offence).\n\nIn Canada, summary offences are referred to as summary conviction offences. As in other jurisdictions, summary conviction offences are considered less serious than indictable offences because they are punishable by shorter prison sentences and smaller fines. These offences appear both in the federal laws of Canada and in the legislation of Canada's provinces and territories. For summary conviction offences that fall under the jurisdiction of the federal government (which includes all criminal law), section 787 of the Criminal Code specifies that, unless another punishment is provided for by law, the maximum penalty for a summary conviction offence is a sentence of 6 months of imprisonment, a fine of $5,000 or both.\n\nAs a matter of practical effect, some common differences between summary conviction and indictable offences are provided below.\n\n\n\nIn Hong Kong, trials for summary offences are heard in one of the territory's Magistrates' Courts.\n\nIn relation to England and Wales, the expression \"summary offence\" means an offence which, if committed by an adult, is tried by a summary procedure. In such proceedings there is no jury, the appointed judge decides the guilt or innocence of the accused. Each summary offence is specified by statute which describes the (usually minor) offence and the judge to hear it. A summary procedure can result in a summary conviction.\n\nIn this definition, references to the way in which an offence is triable are to be construed without regard to the effect, if any, of section 22 of the Magistrates' Courts Act 1980 (\"Certain offences triable either way to be tried summarily if value involved is small\") on the mode of trial in a particular case.\n\nSir William Blackstone, in his Commentaries on the Laws of England (1765–1769), described summary offences thus:\n\nIn the United Kingdom, trials for summary offences are heard in one of a number of types of lower court. For England and Wales this is the Magistrates' Court. In Scotland, it is the Sheriff Court or Justice of the peace court, depending on the offence (the latter being primarily for the most minor of offences). Northern Ireland has its own Magistrates' Court system.\n\nIn the United States, \"there are certain minor or petty offenses that may be proceeded against summarily, and without a jury\". These include criminal citations. Any crime punishable by more than six months of imprisonment must have some means for a jury trial. Some states, such as California, provide that all common law crimes and misdemeanors require a jury trial. Some states provide that in all offenses the defendant may demand a jury trial. (Note that the right to trial by jury is the exclusive right of the defendant, if the defendant chooses to select a bench trial (trial by judge) the prosecution cannot object.)\n\nContempt of court is considered a prerogative of the court, as \"the requirement of a jury does not apply to 'contempts committed in disobedience of any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command entered in any suit or action brought or prosecuted in the name of, or on behalf of, the United States'\". There have been criticisms over the practice. In particular, Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black wrote in a 1964 dissent, \"It is high time, in my judgment, to wipe out root and branch the judge-invented and judge-maintained notion that judges can try criminal contempt cases without a jury.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11928964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11928964", "title": "Summerjam", "text": "Summerjam\n\nSummerjam is a European reggae festival. It takes places annually in July at the \"Fühlinger See\", which is a lake located in Cologne, Germany. The event usually attracts an audience of between 25,000 and 30,000 people. Two stages and two tents are located on an island, with the camping area surrounding the lake.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1993 the Summerjam took place at the Loreley, in 1994 and 1995 at the airport Wildenrath and since 1996 at its present location in Cologne. Throughout the festival's history, many major reggae acts have performed there including (among many others):\n\nBlack Uhuru, Dennis Brown, Jimmy Cliff, Fantan Mojah, Third World, Steel Pulse, Aswad, Freddie McGregor, Sly and Robbie, Burning Spear, Linton Kwei Johnson, The Abyssinians, Culture, Misty In Roots, Israel Vibration, Lee Scratch Perry, Radical Dance Faction, Lucky Dube, Tony Rebel, Maxi Priest, Bunny Wailer, Shaggy, Beenie Man, Sizzla, Sean Paul, Groundation, Alpha Blondy\n\n"}
{"id": "10659704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10659704", "title": "Survey of Consumer Finances", "text": "Survey of Consumer Finances\n\nThe Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) is a triennial statistical survey of the balance sheet, pension, income and other demographic characteristics of families in the United States; the survey also gathers information on the use of financial institutions.\n\nIt is sponsored by the United States Federal Reserve Board in cooperation with the U.S. Treasury Department. Since 1992, data have been collected by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago, located in Chicago, Illinois. Data from the survey are widely used, from analysis at the Federal Reserve and other branches of government to scholarly work at the major economic research centers. \n\nParticipation in the study is strictly voluntary. However, because only about 4,500 to 6,500 families are interviewed in the main study, every family selected is very important to the results. In the 2004 survey, the median interview length was about eighty minutes. However, in some particularly complicated\ncases, the amount of time needed was substantially more than two hours. The majority of interviews were obtained in person, although interviewers were allowed to conduct telephone interviews if that was more convenient for the respondent.\n\nWealth in the U.S. is relatively concentrated, with more than a third of the total being held by one percent of the population. In order to address issues relevant to the full distribution of wealth, the survey combines two techniques for random sampling.\n\nFirst, a standard multistage area-probability sample (a geographically based random sample) is selected to provide good coverage of characteristics, such as homeownership, that are broadly distributed in the population.\n\nSecond, a supplemental sample is selected to disproportionately include wealthy families, which hold a relatively large share of such thinly held assets as noncorporate businesses and tax-exempt bonds. Called the \"list sample\", this group is drawn from a list of statistical records derived from tax returns. These records are used under strict rules governing confidentiality, the rights of potential respondents to refuse participation in the survey, and the types of information that can be made available. Individuals listed by \"Forbes\" magazine as being among the Forbes 400 (the wealthiest 400 people in the U.S.) are excluded from sampling.\n\nThe response rate in the area-probability sample is more than double that in the list sample. In both 2001 and 2004, about 70 percent of households selected for the area-probability sample actually completed interviews. The overall response rate in the list sample was about 30 percent; in the part of the list sample likely containing the wealthiest families, the response rate was only about 10 percent. To retain the scientific validity of the study, interviewers are not allowed to substitute respondents for families that do not participate. Thus, if a family declines to participate, it means that families like theirs may not be represented clearly in national discussions.\n\nThe survey interviews are conducted largely between the months of May and December in each survey year by NORC.\n\nThe latest available results are those of the 2016 survey. Two general types of data set are provided first, the full public data set is given in DAP/SAS, Stata and ASCII computer formats; second, an extract file of summary variables is provided in Microsoft Excel spreadsheet format. All of these files are provided in compressed form as ZIP files.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1526726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1526726", "title": "TSMS Lakonia", "text": "TSMS Lakonia\n\nThe TSMS \"Lakonia\" was a Greek-owned cruise ship which caught fire and sank north of Madeira on 22 December 1963, with the loss of 128 lives.\n\nThe vessel was built in the Netherlands as the MS \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" and sailed regularly between Amsterdam and the East Indies. The ship served as an allied troopship during World War II. She was sold to the General Steam Navigation Company of Greece in 1962.\n\nRenamed \"Lakonia\", the ship completed a successful cruise from Southampton to the Canary Islands in April 1963, planned as the first of a long series. On 19 December, she departed Southampton for an 11-day Christmas cruise with 646 passengers and 376 crew under Captain Mathios Zarbis.\n\nOn the fourth evening of the voyage, a steward found the ship's hair salon ablaze, with flames spreading quickly toward the passenger cabins. Alarms sounded too softly to be heard by most people on board.\n\nEvacuation was hampered by the overcrowding of lifeboats and the loss of several boats to fire. Some passengers were able to reach the water via the gangways and rope ladders. Two ships alerted by distress signals managed to save most of the others.\n\nA board of inquiry traced the fire to faulty electrical wiring, but strongly criticised the maintenance of equipment, thoroughness of boat drills, and the standard of supervision. Eight of the ship's officers were charged with negligence.\n\nThe \"MS Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" was built in Amsterdam at the Nederlandse Scheepsbouw Maatschappij, dockyard 194. The ship was launched on August 3, 1929 and construction was completed on March 13, 1930. She was powered by two propellers and two Sulzer diesel engines and had a maximum speed of . The ship was long and measured 19,040 gross tons. The \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" originally could accommodate 770 passengers: 366 in first class, 280 in second, 64 in third and 60 in fourth class. She could also carry as many as 360 crewmen. The ship had seven passenger decks and could carry 9,000 tons of additional cargo.\n\nShe was originally operated by the Netherland Line, and sailed between Amsterdam and the Dutch East Indies for nine years. Along with her sister ship, the \"Marnix van St Aldegonde\", the \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" was the largest Dutch ship at the time she was built. She was the eighty-ninth ship built for the Netherland Line.\n\nThe ship was built as a luxury liner. Famed artist Carel Adolph Lion Cachet and sculptor Lambertus Zijl designed the ship’s teak and marble interior, as well as her many statues, mosaics, tapestries and chandeliers.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II in 1939, the \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" was chartered by the Holland America Line and re-registered in Batavia, Netherlands East Indies. She was used as a cargo ship on the Batavia to New York City route. On January 20, 1941, she was registered as an allied troop ship, and was converted for duty at the Harland and Wolff shipyard. Managed by the Orient Line, she could carry a maximum of 4,000 troops. Her port of registration was Willemstad, Curaçao. After servicing India, Singapore and Penang, she finally returned to her home port of Amsterdam on February 13, 1946.\n\nHer sister ship, the \"Marnix van St. Aldegonde\", also served as a troop ship. She was torpedoed and sunk by German aircraft off the Algerian coast, and all 3,000 troops and crew were saved by rescue ships.\n\nAfter a refitting, the \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" returned to service on the Amsterdam – Batavia route in 1946. Indonesians were fighting for their independence from the Netherlands at this time. The ship ferried Dutch troops returning home to Europe from Indonesia for several years.\n\nBy 1950, the political climate in Indonesia had become so unstable that the ship was withdrawn from the East Indies service. She was switched to the Amsterdam – Australia service and departed on her first voyage to Australia on September 2, 1950. She serviced Australia and New Zealand for the next twelve and a half years, with occasional service to Canada and the United States.\n\nThe Australia run was an instant success, and 1951, the \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" was put into dry-dock in Amsterdam for refitting. She was refurbished to carry 1,414 passengers in a one-class configuration. Her lounges were restored to their original state of luxury, and additional passenger facilities were installed. Eight lifeboats were added, bringing her total number of boats to 24.\n\nOn 23January 1952, the ship left for Australia and was forced to return to Amsterdam after four small fires were discovered on board. The fires were quickly extinguished. Arson was suspected, but no suspects were ever arrested.\n\nThe \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" was refitted again in 1958 at a cost of A$800,000. The refitting was carried out by the Amsterdam Dry Dock Company and took three months to complete. Accommodation was reduced to 1,210 passengers. Three luxury suites were added, as well as a nightclub, cinema, gift shop, promenade lounge and second swimming pool. All public rooms were refinished and restored. The main mast was relocated to atop the bridge, and the decks were extended aft. Her funnels were heightened, given rounded tops and painted yellow and black. Her black hull was re-painted gray.\n\nThe ship was assigned to her new port, Southampton, England, on 2 April 1959. She offered round-the-world service, making stops in Australia, New Zealand, Bermuda and New York City. She was now marketed as a cruise ship, instead of a passenger liner.\n\nThe \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" left on her last round-the-world voyage for the Netherland Line on 30 June 1962. She arrived in Sydney, Australia on February 3, 1963 and was decommissioned by the Netherland Line that day, ending a 33-year career for that shipping line. She then sailed for Genoa, Italy, and arrived on 7 March 1963.\n\nOn 8 March 1963, the \"Johan van Oldenbarnevelt\" was sold to the General Steam Navigation Company of Greece. Her decks and public rooms were renamed and the aft swimming pool was enlarged. Twelve additional cabins were built, and air conditioning was installed throughout the ship. Her hull was painted white, and her tonnage grew to 20,314 tons. Most importantly, the ship's name was changed to \"TSMS Lakonia\".\n\nThe ship was operated by the Ormos Shipping Company (also known as the Greek Line) and offered service from Southampton to the Canary Islands. She departed Southampton on her first voyage as \"Lakonia\" on 24 April 1963. She proved immensely popular, and the Greek Line planned 27 cruises for 1964. From December 9-13, 1963, she underwent another minor upgrade. A new pneumatic fuel injection system was installed. Cabins were redecorated, and the kitchen and pantry were completely remodeled.\n\nThe \"Lakonia\" was outfitted with a number of safety features. She carried 24 lifeboats capable of holding 1,455 people. The ship had an automatic fire alarm system and two fire stations with specialized firefighting equipment. There were lifejackets for every person on board and an extra 400 stowed on deck.\n\nIn addition to \"Lakonia\", the Greek Line also operated the larger \"Arkadia\" and \"Olympia\".\n\nThe \"Lakonia\" departed Southampton on 19 December 1963 for an 11-day \"Christmas Cruise\" of the Canary Islands. Her first scheduled stop was to be the island of Madeira. There were 646 passengers and 376 crewmen on board: a total of 1,022 people. All but 21 of the passengers were British citizens, and the crew members were mostly Greek and German. The captain of the \"Lakonia\" was 53-year-old Mathios Zarbis.\n\nThe crew had conducted a boat drill a week before, and the ship passed a safety inspection by the British Ministry of Transport 24 hours prior to sailing. The ship carried a Greek certificate of seaworthiness. Passengers participated in a boat drill on 20 December.\n\nOn 22 December, at around 11:00 p.m., a steward noticed thick smoke seeping under the door of the ship's hairdressing salon. Upon opening the door, he found the room completely ablaze, and the fire rushed into the hallway toward the staterooms. He and another steward attempted to fight the flames with fire extinguishers, but the fire was spreading too fast to be contained. One of the men ran to notify the ship's purser, Antonio Bogetti.\n\nFire alarms sounded, but too softly to be heard by most passengers. \"The fire alarm bell was so weak that it sounded like someone calling the waiter to ask for tea,\" one survivor later told reporters. An alarm went off on the bridge, pinpointing the fire’s location. The ship was about 180 miles north of Madeira at .\nAt the time the blaze was discovered, most of the passengers were in the ship's ballroom, called the Lakonia Room, dancing at the \"Tropical Tramps' Ball.\" Passengers began to notice the smell of smoke, but most dismissed it as strong cigar smoke. Captain Zarbis, who had been notified of the fire, attempted to make an announcement on the ship's intercom system, but it had been disabled by the blaze. As smoke began to fill the ballroom at about 11:30, the band stopped playing and cruise director George Herbert ushered the frightened passengers to the boat deck. The upper deck was ablaze within 10 minutes.\n\nMany of the passengers who had been asleep in their cabins found themselves unable to escape the fire. Some passengers were told to go to the main dining room to await instructions, but most ignored this order, since the dining room lay directly in the path of the fire.\n\nAt 11:30 p.m., the ship's chief radio officer Antonios Kalogridis sent out the first distress call: \"Fire spreading up. Prepare evacuation on ship.\" At midnight, a second distress call was sent out: \"We are leaving the ship. Please immediately give us assistance. Please help us.\" Kalogridis sent out the last call at 12:22 a.m., just before the wireless room caught fire: \"SOS from \"Lakonia\", last time. I cannot stay anymore in the wireless station. We are leaving the ship. Please immediate assistance. Please help.\"\n\nA six-man fire crew attempted to fight the blaze, but the fire spread too quickly to be contained. The pressure boilers began to explode, filling the rooms and hallways with thick, black smoke, and the suffocating passengers were forced on deck. The ship's purser gave the order to abandon ship shortly before 1:00 a.m. Dazed passengers made their way to the lifeboats, some in their pyjamas and others still wearing their jewellery and evening wear.\n\nA few crew members went below decks to try to save passengers from their burning cabins. The ship's swimming pool attendant and a steward lowered themselves over the side of the ship, by rope, to pull trapped people from portholes.\nEvacuation of the ship was extremely difficult. Some lifeboats burned before they could be lowered. Two of the lifeboats were swamped, spilling their occupants into the sea; one when it was lowered only by one end, and the other when its davits broke off. Chains had rusted in many of the davits, making boats difficult or impossible to move. In the end, just over half of the lifeboats made it safely away from the \"Lakonia\", some of them less than half full. Several people who dived overboard struck the side of the ship on the way down, killing them before they hit the water.\n\nPassengers were angered when the wireless operator left the ship in a launch, with a nurse and two musicians. Kalogridis later testified that he had left to rescue people from the water. He did not return to the ship, because the current pushed the launch away, he explained. Passengers also claimed that some of the crewmen took advantage of the chaos to loot staterooms.\n\nWhen all of the boats were away, there were still people adrift in the water and over 100 people left on board the burning ship. The \"Lakonia\" continued to burn fiercely and was rocked by violent explosions. Those who remained on board flocked to the glass-enclosed Agora Shopping Centre at the stern of the ship. After several hours, the flames closed in on them, and they were forced to descend ropes and rope ladders into the ocean. The port and starboard gangways were lowered as well, and people walked down the gangways single file into the sea.\n\nAt 3:30 a.m., four hours after the first distress call, the Argentine passenger ship \"Salta\" arrived on the scene. The \"Salta\", under the command of Captain José Barrere, had been on its way from Genoa, Italy to Buenos Aires. The British cargo ship \"Montcalm\" arrived half an hour later at 4:00 a.m. The majority of the survivors were saved by these two ships. The \"Salta\" rescued 475 people and took aboard most of \"Lakonia\"'s lifeboats.\n\nIn the hours that followed, the Belgian ship \"\", the USA freighter \"Rio Grande\" (ex-AKA 87), the British passenger ship \"Stratheden\" and the Panamanian freighter \"Mehdi\" all arrived to take part in the rescue. Each of the rescue vessels launched boats to pluck survivors from the water. Also, four United States Air Force C-54 planes were sent from the Lajes Air Base in the Azores. The planes dropped flares, lifejackets, life rafts and survival kits to people in the water. An RAF Avro Shackleton from Gibraltar criss-crossed the area, pinpointing boats and survivors and guiding rescuers to them.\nRescue efforts were hindered by the fact that the \"Lakonia\" drifted for several miles during the evacuation. People in the water were dispersed over a 2 – area. Also, rescue ships were reluctant to get too near the \"Lakonia\"; there was a constant risk that the ship's 500 tons of fuel oil would explode.\n\nA lifeboat was dispatched from the \"Charlesville\" shortly after daybreak to rescue Captain Zarbis, who was spotted pacing the decks of the still-burning ship. Zarbis was the last person to leave the \"Lakonia\" alive.\n\nMost of the survivors were transported to Madeira, while others, including Captain Zarbis, were taken to Casablanca.\n\nA total of 128 people died in the \"Lakonia\" disaster, of which 95 were passengers and 33 were crew members. Only 53 people were killed in the actual fire. The rest died from exposure, drowning and injuries sustained while diving overboard. Most of the dead were buried in a Gibraltar cemetery after an autopsy which was carried out in a cavern workshop of 1st Fortress Squadron, Royal Engineers.\n\nOne passenger who jumped from the ship cut her throat on her life jacket. After being rescued by the \"Montcalm\", her injuries were treated by another passenger, Alan Leigh. Largely due to this incident, cruise ship passengers are now instructed how to hold their jackets if jumping from a height.\n\nCrewmen from the British aircraft carrier HMS \"Centaur\" were able to board the \"Lakonia\" on December 24, once the flames had died down. Most of the bodies were recovered by the crew of the \"Centaur\". By this time, the \"Lakonia\" was a charred, smoking hulk. Her superstructure had partially collapsed amidships, and the bridge and aft decks had caved in. There were holes blasted near the bow, and the ship was listing 10 degrees to starboard.\n\nThe Norwegian tugboat \"Herkules\" attached a tow line to the \"Lakonia\" at 5:30 p.m. on 24 December. The \"Herkules\", along with the Portuguese tugboat \"Praia da Adraga\" and two other tugs, set off for the British base at Gibraltar with the \"Lakonia\" in tow. Her list grew more severe each day, and at about 2:00 p.m. on 29 December, the \"Lakonia\" rolled over onto her starboard side. She sank stern-first in only three minutes. The ship went down 230 nautical miles (265 miles; 426 km) southwest of Lisbon, Portugal, and 250 nautical miles (288 miles;463 km) west of Gibraltar.\n\nThe only color photographs taken of the \"Lakonia\" disaster ran in \"Life\" magazine on January 3, 1964. \"Life\"'s photographic coverage of the event marked only the second time in history that a publication was able to offer hour-by-hour photographic coverage of a disaster at sea. The first such coverage appeared on 6 August 1956, when \"Life\" ran a series of photos of the \"SS Andrea Doria\" sinking. The only person known to have taken photos while on board the burning ship was Ian Harris from Finchley, London, who was travelling with his wife, Rita Harris. These photos appeared in Life magazine, edition dated 3 January 1964. Rita Harris recounted the events on 2 July 1964 on Woman's Hour on BBC Radio Light Programme.\n\nSurvivors include British educator Sir Ivor Jennings with wife and daughter, architect Owen Luder and wife Doris, and Henry Wilson, Baron Wilson of Langside.\n\nThe Greek Merchant Marine Ministry launched a two-year investigation into the \"Lakonia\" disaster. The board of inquiry maintained that the \"Lakonia\" never should have passed safety inspections before sailing. Lifeboat davits were rusted and lockers containing lifesaving equipment failed to open. The drain holes in many lifeboats were without stoppers, so that passengers had to constantly bail water.\n\nWhile a lifeboat drill had been conducted by the crew a week before the fateful voyage, only five of the boats had been lowered in the drill. All of the boats should have been tested, the board argued.\n\nCharges of looting were dropped after extensive questioning. The crewmen maintained that they had only broken into cabins to search for extra lifejackets.\n\nThe board of inquiry issued a number of other charges. The order to abandon ship was given too late. Operations on deck were not supervised by responsible officers. The crew, despite a few cases of self-sacrifice, failed to rescue sleeping passengers from their cabins below decks.\n\nEight of the \"Lakonia\"'s officers were charged with negligence. Captain Zarbis, his first officer and the ship’s security officer were charged with gross negligence. The other five men were charged with simple negligence.\n\nThe cause of the fire was ultimately determined to be a short circuit of faulty electrical wiring.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9086171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9086171", "title": "The Babylon Game", "text": "The Babylon Game\n\nThe Babylon Game is a fantasy novel by Katherine Roberts which is the second novel in The Seven Fabulous Wonders series and the sequel to The Great Pyramid Robbery.\n\nIt is the year 539 B.C. Inside the city of Babylon, known as the Gateway of God, is Tia, the adopted daughter of a perfume maker. She is picking herbs in the sacred Amytis garden. Next to the garden is a portion of the double defense wall surrounding the city. Tia soon discovered what is between the two walls; Sirrush, otherwise known as dragons.\n\nFearing for the dragon's health, she leaves them food. A touch from the dragons grants Tia great magical powers, enough to threaten or save Babylon. These will be needed, as far in the plains the Persian king Cyrus the Great, plans to capture Babylon. The secret of its salvation might just lie in the hanging gardens themselves.\n"}
{"id": "35141201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35141201", "title": "The Garden Festival", "text": "The Garden Festival\n\nThe Garden festival is an annual summer dance music festival held in the area around Šibenik, Croatia each July. Started in 2006, the festival is held outdoors on the beach-front terrace, contributing to the open and relaxed party atmosphere that has become synonymous with the festival.\n\nLive acts included: Alice Russell, Bass Culture, Dub Specimen, Eddy meets Yannah, Overproof, Reel People, The Beat Fleet, Different Drummer, Montefiori Cocktail and Alice McLaughlin.\n\nLive acts included: 6IX TOY'S, Alice McLaughlin, Crazy P, Cubismo, Diesler, No Fakin DJs, Overproof Sound System, Postolar Tripper, Soil and Pimp Sessions and Yesking.\n\n"}
{"id": "8554071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8554071", "title": "The Me Nobody Knows", "text": "The Me Nobody Knows\n\nThe Me Nobody Knows is a musical with music by Gary William Friedman and lyrics by Will Holt. It debuted off-Broadway in 1970 and then transferred to Broadway, making it one of the earliest rock musicals to play on Broadway, and the first Broadway hit to give voice to the sentiments of inner-city American youth. It received the Obie Award and the Drama Desk Award for best New Musical, and Five Tony Award nominations, including Best Musical.\n\nThere is no plot, but the theme is children in low-income neighborhoods of New York City, who are \"complex, introspective characters. Each 'I' is an authentic voice saying attention must be paid.\" The children are self-assertive in the face of difficult lives. Various stories are told through song by the cast of 8 black and 4 white children. One story is about a 13-year-old boy taking heroin for the first time. Another involves a child shocked to hear a white boy order \"milk and a nigger\". A boy watches as a drunk black man is taken away in an ambulance after an accident. In the musical number \"If I Had a Million Dollars\" the ghetto children ponder what they would do with the money and express \"tightwad selfishness to outrageous spending sprees.\"\n\n\n\n‡ These songs by The Staple Singers (\"This World\") and The 5th Dimension (\"Light Sings\") became hits.\n\n\"The Me Nobody Knows\" premiered off-Broadway at the Orpheum Theatre on May 18, 1970, and closed on November 15, 1970 after 208 performances. It then opened on Broadway at the Helen Hayes Theatre on December 18, 1970, transferred to the Longacre Theatre, and closed on November 14, 1971 after 378 performances. Directed by Robert H. Livingston with musical staging by Patricia Birch, the cast included a young Irene Cara as Lillie Mae, Hattie Winston as Nell, Beverly Bremers (at the time credited as Beverly Ann Bremers) as Catherine, and Northern J. Calloway.\n\nThe adaptation by director Robert H. Livingston and additional lyricist Herb Schapiro was inspired by the anthologized writings of nearly 200 New York City students, aged 7 through 18. Stephen M. Joseph, a teacher, edited the collection, which was subtitled \"Children's Voices From the Ghetto\" and first published in 1969. The children wrote about \"How I See Myself\", \"How I See My Neighborhood\", \"The World Outside\", and \"Things I Can't See or Touch\". According to Mr. Joseph, they wrote \"for keeps\" and \"like it is.\" At odds with a squalid setting and a cynical, materialistic view of the world, themes of hope and renewal emerged. To guarantee uplift, samples from the students' work were interwoven with a ground-breaking score that combined rock music, classical fugues, early rap and jazz.\n\nThe musical was performed throughout the world, in cities such as Tel Aviv, London, Paris, Hamburg, and Johannesburg.\n\nThe German-language version, \"Ich Bin Ich\" was premiered at the Bremen Stadt-Theater, Berman, Germany and was performed there and in Munich on a rotating basis. The stage director was Norman Foster, musical director, Noel Jones. The cast included a singer who eventually became known as Donna Summer.\n\nIn 1980, the musical was produced for the U.S. pay television network, Showtime as part of the Broadway on Showtime series. Recorded at the CBS television studio now known as The Ed Sullivan Theater, the project was recast but included one original cast member, Jose Fernandez. Tisha Campbell (now, Tisha Campbell-Martin) performed as Lillie Mae, a role originated by Irene Cara.\n\nThe musical was \"universally praised for its candidness and honesty.\" Harold Clurman in reviewing for \"The Nation\", wrote \"What I cherished about the show is the talent and vitality of the cast, the bubble of its playfulness, the raciness of its expression which, with or without the advantages of privileged training among the actors, is still the product of the streets in the dim and sequestered parts of our town.\n\nClive Barnes, the theatre critic for \"The New York Times\" wrote (of the off-Broadway opening): \"I loved it. I loved its understanding and compassion, and I loved its pain and yet also its unsentimental determination for hope.\" Steven Suskin noted that he agreed with Barnes and added \"The Me was energetic, tuneful, talent-filled and thought-provoking.\" Barnes, in reviewing the musical upon the Broadway opening, noted that the musical was \"one of the best musicals on Broadway-and unequivocally the most moving, the most poignant.\" He wrote that it offers \"an insight into ghetto youth. It is raw, tough, and yet truly compassionate...The effect could be depressing but it isn't. The sheer tenacity of the human spirit against oppression, against rats, against drugs, against the numbing, almost soothing grind of poverty, is glorious and triumphant.\"\n\nThe Original cast album was released January 1, 1970 by Atlantic Records. The recording was released in CD form in September 2001 by 150 Music. (ASIN: B00005NSV9).\n\n"}
{"id": "2553602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2553602", "title": "The Temptations Show", "text": "The Temptations Show\n\nThe Temptations Show was a one-hour syndicated television special starring Motown singing group The Temptations, which aired on July 10, 1969. Produced by Motown Productions, it guest-starred George Kirby and Kaye Stevens.\n\nAmong the featured musical numbers were Temptations singles such as \"Get Ready\", \"Cloud Nine\", and \"Run Away Child, Running Wild\", pop standards such as \"Ol' Man River\" and \"Swanee\"., and a closing number, \"Somebody's Keepin' Score\", featuring an (early) \"rap\" by all three stars. Along with the \"TCB\" special in 1968, which featured both the Temptations and Diana Ross & The Supremes, this was one of Dennis Edwards' first appearances with the group. A soundtrack of the show was released on Motown's Gordy label as GS 933 that same year.\n"}
{"id": "22032546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22032546", "title": "Tokyo Music Festival", "text": "Tokyo Music Festival\n\nThe Tokyo Music Festival was an international music contest that ran from 1972 to 1991. It was organised by the Tokyo Music Festival Association. The first edition of the Tokyo Music Festival took place on 13 May 1972 with 12 participating countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "43012526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43012526", "title": "Venizelos–Tittoni agreement", "text": "Venizelos–Tittoni agreement\n\nThe Venizelos–Tittoni agreement was a secret non-binding agreement between the Prime Minister of Greece, Eleftherios Venizelos, and the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tommaso Tittoni, in July 1919, during the Paris Peace Conference.\n\nThe agreement was an effort to achieve an agreement about the conflicting territorial claims of the two countries.\n\n\nIn January 1920, Venizelos made known the agreement to the Supreme Allied Council with no negative reaction. \nThe stance of Italy changed in July 1920, when the new Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Carlo Sforza, with a secret note to the Greek government renounced the agreement. Formally, the agreement was renounced by Italy on August 1922.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52473799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52473799", "title": "Wayomenomics", "text": "Wayomenomics\n\nWayomenomics “create, loot, and share” the nation’s resources. or Is a word used by Ghanaian economist and Former Deputy Governor of Bank of Ghana Mahamudu Bawumia to describe the alleged corruption in the NDC (National Democratic Congress) that awarded 51 million GH₵ to businessman Mr Alfred Agbeshi Wayome without any government contract. economic policies implemented by President John Mahama are responsible for the hardship in the country. instead of practicing sound economic policies to improve the fortunes of Ghanaians, the President has led an agenda\n“Under the eight years of the NDC…President Mahama \n"}
{"id": "8318686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8318686", "title": "Winfried Michel", "text": "Winfried Michel\n\nWinfried Michel (born 1948 in Fulda) is a German recorder player, composer, and editor of music.\n\nMichel studied with Ingetraud Drescher, Nikolaus Delius, and Frans Brüggen. He is lecturer for the recorder at the Staatliche Hochschule Münster and at the Musikakademie Kassel. In addition to compositions published under his own name, he has written numerous pieces in the style of the early 18th century under the pseudonym Giovanni Paolo Simonetti. In 1993 he succeeded in convincing noted Haydn scholar H. C. Robbins Landon and the pianist/scholars Paul and Eva Badura-Skoda that six piano sonatas he had composed were long-lost works by Joseph Haydn (; ).\n\nBased on the opening few bars of six lost Haydn works, found in an old thematic index, these sonatas were published in 1995 as works by Haydn, \"supplemented and edited by Winfried Michel.\" He has similarly completed the Viola Sonata left as a two-movement fragment by Mikhail Glinka with a menuet as third movement, even though Glinka would have—according to his autobiography—put a rondo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57218598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57218598", "title": "Xcbusa", "text": "Xcbusa\n\nThe XCBusa is a paragliding competition in the northern alps in Italy by the lake Garda.\n\nThe Contest its born in Riva del Garda Italy made by the italian Pilot Michele Marchi Vidi\n\nThe pilots has 5 try to make a flight for the final score. The flight has to be declared before taking off. The best 3 flight will be taken for the final score using the xcontest scoring system.\n\n1 - Italo Miori\n\n2 - Roberto La Fauci\n\n3 - Moreno Parmesan\n\n1 - Moreno Parmesan\n\n2 - Italo Miori\n\n3 - Giorgio Tonetta\n\n1 - Moreno Parmesan\n\n2 - Matteo Marega\n\n3 - Ermanno Dossi\n\n1 - Helmut Schrempf\n\n2 - Manuel Schmiedhofer\n\n3 - Italo Miori\n\n"}
{"id": "20542946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20542946", "title": "Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi", "text": "Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi\n\nZaki-ur-Rehman Lakhavi (born c. 1960), is a top leader of the Pakistani terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba and currently serves as Supreme Commander of operations in Kashmir and as a member of the freedom fighting group's General Council. He is listed on India's NIA Most Wanted list.\n\nLakhvi, like his contemporary Hafiz Saeed, is the object of much debate between Pakistan and India, with little of this being based upon known facts . In the publicly available confession of Ajmal Kasab, Lakhvi's name is mentioned as 'Chacha Zaki' (Uncle Zaki).\n\nLittle is known about Lakhvi, but he was said to be 52 years old as of December 2008, and was allegedly born in the Okara district of Punjab, Pakistan. He has allegedly directed military actions in Chechnya, Bosnia, Iraq and South-east Asia and is referred to as 'Chachu', or Uncle, by young trainees.\n\nIn 1999 at a three-day annual congregation held at Muridke, he is alleged to have explained the reasons for continued missions against the Indian Army in Kashmir, in the aftermath of the Kargil War: \"After the Pakistani withdrawal from Kargil and the Nawaz-Clinton statement in Washington, it was important to boost the morale of the Kashmiri people. These missions were initiated to teach India a lesson as they were celebrating after the Kargil war.\" He said that the next target would be New Delhi.\n\nIn 2006, he allegedly asked LeT's members to begin training operatives for more operations. Indian officials claim Lakhvi also oversaw Azam Cheema, who has been accused of being a leader in the 2006 bombing of the Mumbai rail network that killed more than 200 and left 700 injured.\n\nIn May 2008, the US Treasury Department announced that it had frozen the assets of four Lashkar-e-Taiba leaders including Lakhvi.\n\nOn December 3, 2008 Indian officials named him as one of four major planners behind the November 2008 Mumbai Attacks. He reportedly offered to pay the family of Ajmal Kasab the sum of Rs.150,000 for his participation in the attacks.\nOn December 7, 2008 Pakistani armed forces arrested Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi in a raid on an LeT training camp near Muzafarabad in Pakistani Kashmir. He was among 12 people detained. Pakistan confirmed the arrest but refused to hand over any of its citizens to Indian authorities. Officials stated that any Pakistani citizen accused of involvement in the attack would be tried in Pakistan.\n\nOn February 12, 2009 Rehman Malik, Interior Minister, stated that Lakhvi was still in custody and under investigation as the foremost mastermind behind the attacks.\n\nOn 25 November 2009, a Pakistani anti-terrorism court formally charged seven suspects, including LeT commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, with planning and helping execute the Mumbai attacks, an action that came a day before the first anniversary of the brazen assault.\n\nOn 18 December 2014, the Pakistani anti-terrorism court granted bail to Lakhvi in the Mumbai attacks case against payment of surety bonds worth Rs. 500,000.\nOn December 19, Lakhvi's bail was rejected by the high court. This step was called 'positive' by the Indian government\nOn 7 January 2015; Lakhvi's bail was rejected by the Supreme Court and the case referred back to the high court, who reinstated the bail; The surety bond required from Lakhvi had a value of US $2,300. Lakhvi was released from jail on bail on 10 April 2015.\n"}
