{"id": "8455738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8455738", "title": "Abotani", "text": "Abotani\n\nAbotani, or Abu Tani, is considered the primal ancestor of the Tani (tribes) group of people in Arunachal Pradesh, such as the Apatani, the Nyishi, The Adi-Misings,The Galos and Tagin. They follow the Donyi-Polo religion and consider Abotani as the one who firstly introduced the technique of rice cultivation.\n\nThe following story is told orally through priests (\"Miri\") among the Adi people:\n\nIn older time Abo Tani (Abo or Abu: \"father\", Tani: \"human\") has wandered in forest for want of food. Once he went to Takar-Taji's place (\"Tatar-Taji\") marriage ceremony where a bos frontalis (sebbe) was sacrificed. Due to a trick of Aabhu Thanyi, Takar-Taji could sacrifice only one gaur, which was meagre for distribution to the guest. Aabhu Tani's dog (\"Kipung\") and the deer (\"Dumpo\") shared a packet of rotten soya seeds (staple food in olden days, as the use of rice millet and maize was unknown in those days). This led to quarrel between Kipung and Dumpo. Dumpo the deer kicked the soya seed packet and ran away. Angry, Kipung the dog chased the deer. Abotani had to follow both them. After many days Dumpu the deer landed in the world of Digo Ane (\"Keeper of Land\"; \"digo\" \"land\", \"Ane\" \"mother\") where people were scattering the rice powder set on sun for drying. Duumpoo the deer was caught by these people; Kiipu the dog followed and was caught; Abotani followed them and was also caught by the peoples of Digo Ane. The three were imprisoned. After many days Abotani played a trick: he put a dead mole rat in his armpit and acted as if he were dying. This worried the Digo Ane people, lest the act may anger the Takar-Taji people, and they freed Abotani and granted him the gift of rice, millet and maize seed.\n\nMany other legends between the Tanii people speak about Abotani's stories: a woman in the Digo Ane region told him how to cultivate the rice seeds; Aabhu Thanyi had a lot of success in his rice cultivation thanks to his wise wife Aio Diiliang Diibiu; however, he divorced from her to marry another woman, and this brought disgrace to his wealth because the new wife was too much after leisures; when Abotani realized this, he left also the second wife and continued the cultivation on his own, but still he had to ask for the help of his sister to be saved from the danger of falling from the top of a high tree where he had climbed (http://arunachalipr.gov.in/StateFestival_Dree.htm). Events in the legendary life of Aabhu Tani and in his quest for rice are part of the traditions of the Tani people and are celebrated in different periods of the year (following the rice cultivation season). Aabhu Tani is a symbol of the struggle of humankind for food and prosperity though in difficult situations, and of the need for harmony between man and woman to bring wealth to the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "16470908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16470908", "title": "Ammon (Book of Mormon explorer)", "text": "Ammon (Book of Mormon explorer)\n\nIn the \"Book of Mormon\", Ammon () is a Mulekite descendant and leader of a Nephite expedition from Zarahemla, sent to discover the fate of Zeniff and his people (who had not been in contact for 75 years). Zeniff and his followers left Zarahemla and travelled to Nephi, their ancestral home, which was then in the possession of the Lamanites. This may have contributed to his expedition, not knowing the actual route to Nephi.\n\nAmmon and his men discover the descendants of the people of Zeniff, who had successfully colonized Nephi but were then enslaved by the Lamanites. Zeniff's grandson Limhi rules under the Lamanites and initially imprisons Ammon. Upon learning who Ammon is, he releases him and rejoice his arrival. Ammon teaches the people of Limhi the famous sermon of King Benjamin and helps convert them to the gospel. However, he refuses to baptize the converts, \"considering himself an unworthy servant\". The reason for his apprehension is not given, and the people wait until they reach Zarahemla to be baptised by Alma the Elder. Ammon, Gideon, and King Limhi conspire to escape from the Lamanites by making the guards drunk. The plan is successful and Ammon escorts them to Zarahemla.\n\n"}
{"id": "1364291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1364291", "title": "Ancient Judaism (book)", "text": "Ancient Judaism (book)\n\nAncient Judaism (), is a book written by Max Weber, a German economist and sociologist, in early the 20th century. The original edition was in German - the essays on Ancient Judaism appeared originally in the 1917–1919 issues of the \"Archiv für Sozialwissenschaft und Sozialforschung\". Marianne Weber, his wife, published the essays as Part Three of his \"Gesammelte Aufsatze zur Religionssoziologie\"' in 1920–1921. An English translation was made in 1952 and several editions were released since then.\n\nIt was his fourth and last major work on the sociology of religion, after \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\", \"\" and \"\". In this work he attempts to explain the factors that were responsible for the early differences between Oriental and Occidental religiosity. It is especially visible when the asceticism developed by Western Christianity is contrasted to mystical contemplation developed in India. Weber's premature death in 1920 prevented him from following Ancient Judaism with his planned analysis of Psalms, Book of Job, Talmudic Jewry, early Christianity and Islam.\n\nWeber wrote that \nWeber notes that Judaism not only fathered Christianity and Islam, but was crucial to the rise of modern Western state, as its influence were as important to those of Hellenistic and Roman cultures.\n\nWeber noted that some aspects of Christianity sought to conquer and change the world, instead of withdrawing from its imperfections. This fundamental distinctiveness of Christianity (when compared to Far East religions) stems originally from ancient Jewish prophecy. Weber stated his reasons for investigating ancient Judaism:\n\nWeber analysed the interaction between the Bedouins, the cities, the herdsmen and the peasants, the conflicts between them, and the rise and fall of United Monarchy. The brief time of United Monarchy divided the period of confederacy since the Exodus and the settlement of the Israelites in Canaan from the period of political decline following the Division of the Monarchy. Weber discusses the organisation of the early confederacy, the unique qualities of Israelite relations to the God of Israel, the influence of foreign cults, types of religious ecstasy and the struggle of the priests against ecstasy and idol worship. Later he describes the times of the Division of the Monarchy, social aspects of Biblical prophecy, social orientation of the prophets, demagogues and pamphleteers, ecstasy and politics, ethic and theodicity of the Prophets.\n\nThose periods were significant for religious history, as the basic doctrines of Judaism that left their mark on Western civilisation arose during those times.\n\nReinhard Bendix summarising Weber's work writes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46462945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46462945", "title": "Attacks by Islamic extremists in Bangladesh", "text": "Attacks by Islamic extremists in Bangladesh\n\nAttacks by Islamic extremists in Bangladesh refers to increased attacks since 2013 on a number of secularist and atheist writers, bloggers, and publishers in Bangladesh and foreigners, and religious minorities such as Hindus, Buddhists, Christians, and Shias. These attacks have been largely blamed on extremist groups such as Ansarullah Bangla Team and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.\n\nThe Bangladeshi government was criticized for its responses to the attacks, which included charging and jailing some of the secularist bloggers for allegedly defaming religious groupsa strategy seen as pandering to hard line elements within Bangladesh's majority Muslim population (about 89% of the population). The government's eventual crackdown in June 2016 was also criticized for its heavy-handedness, as more than 11,000 people were arrested in little more than a week (as of 18June 2016).\n\nAs of 2 July 2016, a total of 48 people, including 20 foreign nationals, were killed in such attacks.\n\nIn 2010 the government of Bangladesh, headed by the secularist Awami League, established a war crimes tribunal to investigate war crimes perpetrated during Bangladesh bloody 1971 War of Independence from Pakistan. In February 2013 Abdul Quader Molla, a leader of the Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami party (a small Islamist party within the opposition coalition), was sentenced to life imprisonment by the tribunal. The sentence was condemned by Bangladesh's secularist bloggers and writers, who helped organize the 2013 Shahbag protests in response, calling for the death penalty for Molla. The protestors quickly expanded their demands to include outlawing the Jamaat-e-Islami party itself for its role in the 1971 war.\n\nShortly after the first Shahbag protests, counter-demonstrations, which quickly degenerated into violence, were organized by Islamist groups. Islamist leaders denounced the war crimes tribunal as political and called for an end to the prosecution of Jamaat-e-Islami leaders; they demanded instead the death penalty for secularist bloggers, denouncing them as \"atheists\" and accusing them of blasphemy. A spokesman for the secularist bloggers, Imran Sarker, stated that the hostility directed toward them by Islamists is due primarily to the bloggers' growing political influence in Bangladesh, which represents a major obstacle to the Islamist goal of a religious state.\n\nThough there were occasional attacks on secularists prior to the 2013 Shahbag protests, the frequency of attacks has increased since. Reporters Without Borders noted that in 2014 a group calling itself \"Defenders of Islam\" published a \"hit list\" of 84 Bangladeshis, mostly secularists, of whom nine have already reportedly been killed and others attacked. Responsibility for many of the attacks has been claimed by Ansarullah Bangla Team, a group that, according to police, has links with both the youth wing of Jamaat-e-Islami and al-Qaeda. The group has since been banned by the government. Other attacks appear to have been perpetrated by more obscure groups. Among some extremists, this violence is motivated by inceldom.\n\nWhile police have arrested a number of suspects in the killings, and some bloggers have received police protection, the Bangladesh government has also responded by arresting and jailing a number of secularist bloggers for \"defaming Islam\" and by shutting down several websites. According to Sarker, \"[T]he government has taken this easy route to appease a handful of mullahs whose support they need to win the upcoming election.\"\n\nA number of non-governmental organisations (NGOs), including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Reporters without Borders, PEN International, PEN Canada and the Committee to Protect Journalists have criticized the government for failing to protect its citizens and for not condemning the attacks, and have condemned the imprisonment of bloggers as an attack on free speech, which they say is contributing to a climate of fear for Bangladeshi journalists.\n\nIn a petition published in \"The Guardian\" on 22May 2015, 150 authors, including Salman Rushdie, Margaret Atwood, and Yann Martell, called on the government of Bangladesh to put an end to the deadly attacks on bloggers, urging the Prime Minister and government \"to do all in their power to ensure that the tragic events of the last three months are not repeated, and to bring the perpetrators to justice.\"\n\nOn 7 June 2016 Bangladeshi Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan alleged that the main opposition party BNP has links to the attacks, and that these attacks are part of a wider conspiracy that also involved Mossad, the national intelligence agency of Israel. An Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman in Jerusalem later rejected the allegation in a statement and termed the accusation of the Bangladeshi Home Minister as \"utter drivel\".\n\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, expressed concern on behalf of the United Nations on 13June 2016 by saying, \"I am very concerned about the dramatic increase in number of brutal murders in Bangladesh that target freethinkers, liberals, religious minorities and LGBT activists.\"\n\nOn 14 June 2016 approximately 100,000 Bangladeshi Muslim clerics released a fatwa, ruling that the murder of \"non-Muslims, minorities and secular activists…forbidden in Islam\".\n\nOn 15 January 2013 Asif Mohiuddin, a self-described \"militant atheist\" blogger, was stabbed near his office in Motijheel, Dhaka. He survived the attack. Mohiuddin, a winner of the BOBs award for online activism, was on an Islamist hit list that also included the sociology professor Shafiul Islam. The Islamist fundamentalist group Ansarullah Bangla Team claimed responsibility for the attack. According to Mohiuddin, he later met his attackers in jail, and they told him, \"You left Islam, you are not a Muslim, you criticized the Koran, we had to do this.\" Reporters Without Borders stated that Mohiuddin and others have \"clearly\" been targeted for their \"opposition to religious extremism\".\n\nOn the night of 15 February 2013, Ahmed Rajib Haider, an atheist blogger, was attacked while leaving his house in the Mirpur neighborhood of Dhaka. His body was found lying in a pool of blood, mutilated to the point that his friends could not recognise him. The following day, his coffin was carried through Shahbagh Square in a public protest attended by more than 100,000 people.\n\nHaider was an organizer of the Shahbag movement, a group \"which seeks death for war criminals and a ban on Jamaat-e-Islami and its student front Islami Chhatra Shibir.\" According to Haider's family, Haider was murdered \"for the blogs he used to write to bring 'war criminals' to justice\" and for his outspoken criticism of the Jamaat-e-Islami party. The Shahbag movement described Haider as their \"first martyr\".\n\nOn the night of 7 March 2013 Sunnyur Rahaman was injured when two men swooped in on him and hacked him with machetes. He came under attack around 9:00 p.m. near the Purabi Cinema Hall in Mirpur, Dhaka. With the assistance of local police, he was rushed to Dhaka Medical College and Hospital with wounds to his head, neck, right leg, and left hand. Rahaman was a Shahbag movement activist and a critic of various religious parties, including Jamaat-e-Islami.\n\nOn 15 November 2014 a teacher in the Rajshahi University sociology department named Shafiul Islam, a follower of the Baul community, was struck with sharp weapons by several youths on his way home in Rajshahi city. He died after being taken to Rajshahi Medical College and Hospital. A fundamentalist Islamist militant group named 'Ansar al Islam Bangladesh-2' claimed responsibility for the attack. On a social media website, the group declared: \"Our Mujahideens [fighters] executed a 'Murtad' [apostate] today in Rajshahi who had prohibited female students in his department to wear 'Burka' [veil].\" The website also quoted a 2010 article from a newspaper affiliated with Jamaat-e-Islami stating that \"Professor Shafiul Islam, while being the chair of the sociology department, recruited teachers on condition of being clean-shaved and not wearing kurta-pajamas. He barred female students from wearing burka in classes. This led to many students abandoning burka against their will.\"\n\nAccording to one of Shafiul Islam's colleagues, the victim was not anti-Islam but had prohibited female students from wearing full-face veils in his classes as he believed they could be used to cheat in exams.\n\nOn 26 February 2015 bio-engineer Dr. Avijit Roy, a well-known Bangladeshi blogger, and his wife Bonya Ahmed were attacked in Dhaka by machete-wielding assailants. Roy and his wife had been returning home from the Ekushey Book Fair by bicycle rickshaw when around 8:30 p.m. they were attacked near the Teacher Student Center intersection of Dhaka University by unidentified assailants. According to witnesses, two assailants stopped and dragged them from the rickshaw to the pavement before striking them with machetes. Roy was struck and stabbed in the head with sharp weapons. His wife was slashed on her shoulders and the fingers of her left hand severed when she attempted to go to her husband's aid. Both were rushed to Dhaka Medical College Hospital, where Roy died at 10:30 p.m. His wife survived the attack.\n\nRoy was a naturalized U.S. citizen and founder of the influential Bangladeshi blog \"Mukto-Mona\" (\"Freethinkers\"). A champion of liberal secularism and humanism, Roy was an outspoken atheist and opponent of religious extremism. He was the author of ten books, the best known of which was a critique of religious extremism, \"Virus of Faith\". A group calling itself Ansar Bangla7 claimed responsibility for the attack, describing Roy's writings as a \"crime against Islam\". They also stated that he was targeted as a U.S. citizen in retaliation for U.S. bombing of ISIS militants in Syria.\n\nRoy's killing sparked protests in Dhaka and brought forth expressions of concern internationally. UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova called for the perpetrators to be brought to justice, and for the government to defend freedom of expression and public debate. Author Tahmima Anam wrote in \"The New York Times\": \"Blogging has become a dangerous profession in Bangladesh\", stating that writers have rallied at Dhaka University to criticise the authorities for \"not doing enough to safeguard freedom of expression\". Anam wrote \n\nMahfuz Anam, editor of \"The Daily Star\", wrote that the death \"is a spine-chilling warning to us all that we all can be targets. All that needs to happen for any of us to be killed is that some fanatic somewhere in the country, decides that someone or anyone, needs to be killed.\" Anam stated: \n\nOn 30 March 2015 another blogger, Washiqur Rahman, was killed in the Tejgaon neighborhood of Dhaka in an attack similar to that perpetrated on Avijit Roy. The police arrested two suspects near the scene and recovered meat cleavers from them. The suspects said they killed Raman because of his anti-Islamic articles. Raman was reportedly known for criticizing \"irrational religious beliefs\". The suspects informed the police that they are also members of the Ansarullah Bangla Team and had trained for fifteen days before killing the blogger.\n\nImran Sarker told reporters that, unlike Roy, Raman was not a high-profile blogger, but \"was targeted because open-minded and progressive bloggers are being targeted in general. They are killing those who are easy to access, when they get the opportunity... The main attempt is to create fear among bloggers.\" According to Sarker, Raman's murder was part of a \"struggle between those who are promoting political Islam to turn Bangladesh into a fundamentalist, religious state and the secular political forces ... That is why [the bloggers] have become the main target, and the political parties who are supposed to prevent such attacks and provide security to them seem unable to do so. The main problem is that even mainstream political parties prefer to compromise with these radical groups to remain in power\".\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists issued a press release stating that Raman's death occurred in a climate of \"official harassment of journalists in Bangladesh\".\n\nAnanta Bijoy Das, an atheist blogger who was on an extremist hit-list for his writing, was hacked to death by four masked men in Sylhet on 12May 2015. Ananta wrote blogs for \"Mukto-Mona\". He had authored three books on science, evolution, and revolution in the Soviet Union, and headed the Sylhet-based science and rationalist council. He was also an editor of a quarterly magazine called \"Jukti\" (Logic).\n\nAnanta Das was invited by the Swedish PEN to discuss the persecution of writers in Bangladesh, but the Swedish government refused him a visa on the grounds that he might not return to Bangladesh after his visit.\n\nLawyer Sara Hossain said of Roy and Das, \"They've always believed and written very vocally in support of free expression and they've very explicitly written about not following any religion themselves.\" Asia director of Human Rights Watch Brad Adams said of Ananta's killing, \"This pattern of vicious attacks on secular and atheist writers not only silences the victims but also sends a chilling message to all in Bangladesh who espouse independent views on religious issues.\"\n\nAn editorial in \"The Guardian\" stated: \"Like Raif Badawi, imprisoned and flogged in Saudi Arabia, the brave men who have been murdered are guilty of nothing more than honesty and integrity. Those are virtues that fundamentalists and fanatics cannot stand.\" The editorial concluded, \"Violent jihadis have circulated a list with more than 80 names of free thinkers whom they wish to kill. The public murder of awkward intellectuals is one definition of barbarism. Governments of the west, and that of Bangladesh, must do much more to defend freedom and to protect lives.\"\n\nNiloy Chatterjee, also known as Niloy Chakroborty and by his pen name Niloy Neel, was killed on 7August 2015. It is reported that a gang of about six men armed with machetes attacked him at his home in the Goran neighborhood of Dhaka and hacked him to death. Police said that the men had tricked his wife into allowing them into their home before killing him. His best friend Sahedul Sahed said ,Neel had previously reported to the police that he feared for his life, but no action had been taken. He was an organiser of the Science and Rationalist Association Bangladesh, and had obtained a master's degree in Philosophy from Dhaka University in 2013. Niloy had written in \"Mukto-Mona\", a blogging platform for secularists and freethinkers, was associated with the Shahbag Movement; he and his friend Sahedul Sahed had attended the public protest demanding justice for the murdered bloggers, Ananta Bijoy Das and Avijit Roy. Ansarullah Al Islam Bangladesh, an Al Qaeda group, claimed responsibility for Niloy's killing.\n\nThe UN urged a quick and fair investigation of the murder saying, \"It is vital to ensure the identification of those responsible for this and the previous horrendous crimes, as well as those who may have masterminded the attacks.\" Amnesty International condemned the killing and said that it was the \"urgent duty (of the government) to make clear that no more attacks like this will be tolerated\". Other entities condemning the killing include the German Government, Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami, Bangladeshi prime minister Sheikh Hasina, Human Rights Watch, the Communist Party of Bangladesh, Gonojagoron Moncho, and other political parties of Bangladesh, both rightist and leftist.\n\nWriter Taslima Nasrin criticized the prime minister, Sheikh Hasina, and her government saying, \"Sheikh Hasina's government is morally culpable. I am squarely blaming the state for these massacres in installment. Its indifference and so-called inability to rein in the murderous Ansarullah brigade is solely predicated on the fear of being labelled atheists.\"\n\nFaisal Arefin Dipan, aged 43, the publisher of Jagriti Prakashani, which published Avijit Roy's \"Biswasher Virus\" (Bengali for \"The Virus of Faith\"), was hacked to death in Dhaka on 31October 2015. Reports stated that he had been killed in his third-floor office at the Jagriti Prokashoni publishing house. The attack followed another stabbing, earlier the same day, in which publisher Ahmedur Rashid Chowdhury and two writers, Ranadeep Basu and Tareque Rahim, were stabbed in their office at another publishing house. The three men were taken to hospital, and at least one was reported to be in critical condition.\n\nAhmedur Rashid Chowdhury Tutul, aged 43, editor and publisher of \"Shuddhashar\" In February 2015, he received a death threat, for publishing books of atheist writers and his secular view. On October 31, 2015, he was attacked by assailants with machetes. He was hospitalized in a critical condition. Ansar Al Islam (AQIS Bangladesh) claimed the responsibility.\n\nShahjahan Bachchu an acting editor of weekly Amader Bikrampur and former general secretary of Munshiganj chapter of Communist Party of Bangladesh shot dead on 11 June 2018. His daughter said to the Daily Star that when bloggers were being killed one after another in Bangladesh, her father received threats on his mobile phones on a number of occasions.He had his own publishing house “Bishaka Prokashoni”. Main suspect of that murder named Abdur Rahman arrested on June 24 and according to the police press he got killed by gunfight on 28 June 2018.\n\nAfter an initial wave of attacks focused solely on secularists, most of them atheists, the targets broadened to include other activists, members of religious minority groups, and representatives of Bengali or western culture. Some of these attacks are reported to have been regretted by the murderers associated with one of the perpetrating groups, Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh. They admitted that they had bungled their research, choosing victims who had not offended Islam but were simply popular figures in the community.\n\n was a 66-year-old Japanese man from Iwate Prefecture who was shot in Rangpur, Bangladesh, in October 2015. Hoshi was also known by the aliases Hita Kuchi and Golam Kibria. Hoshi first went to Bangladesh in 2011 and had visited every year since. He last arrived in June 2015, approximately four months before his death. Hoshi was shot three times in a remote rural region of Rangpur, where he had invested in a grass cultivation project and had leased land for Tk82,000. According to police sources, Hoshi was not a wealthy man and had come to Bangladesh to improve his condition, adding that the relatively low cost of living in Bangladesh and its rich soil drove him to try his luck in Bangladesh. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant ISIL claimed responsibility for killing Hoshi on Twitter, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, a US monitoring organization. His murderers told investigators that they had bungled their research and did not realize that Kunio had converted to Islam. The Japanese Embassy of Bangladesh argued that Hoshi should be buried in Bangladesh, with an Islamic-style ceremony. He was ultimately buried in Bangladesh.\n\nOn 21 February 2016 the so-called Islamic State group has said it was behind the beheading of Jogeshwar Roy, a senior Hindu priest, and the wounding of two worshippers in the Panchagarh district of northern Bangladesh.\n\nOn 23 April 2016 A. F. M. Rezaul Karim Siddique, a professor of English at the University of Rajshahi, was hacked to death by several unidentified assailants while waiting for a bus to the university campus in Rajshahi city. ISIL later claimed responsibility for his death.\n\nTwo days after Siddique's murder (25 April 2016), gay-rights activists Xulhaz Mannan and Mahbub Rabbi Tonoy were hacked to death by assailants who broke into Mannan's apartment in the Kalabagan neighborhood of Dhaka. Mannan was the editor of Bangladesh's first LGBT-themed magazine \"Roopbaan\" and an employee of USAID, Bangladesh. Tonoy was a prominent theater activist and co-organizer of the Rainbow Rally 2015. ISIL claimed responsibility for the attack.\n\nOn 30 April 2016 Nikhil Joarder, a Hindu tailor, was hacked to death by two assailants in Tangail in central Bangladesh, by several men on a motorcycle. Responsibililty for the crime was quickly claimed by the organization Islamic State through the news agency of the terrorist group.\n\nOn 7 May 2016 suspected Islamic militants hacked to death a 65-year-old minority Sufi Muslim man, Mohammad Shahidullah, at a mango grove in Mymensingh.\n\nMaung Shue U Chak, a 75-year-old Buddhist monk, was hacked to death in the Bandarban district of southeastern Bangladesh on 14May 2016. The Islamic State is suspected to be behind the killing.,\n\nMachete-wielding assailants hacked a village doctor to death and wounded a university teacher in the Kushtia district of Bangladesh on 20May 2016. The homeopathic doctor, Mir Sanaur Rahman, 55, was killed on the spot, and his companion, identified as Saifuzzaman, 45, suffered serious wounds. Police found a bloody machete at the scene. Mir Sanaur Rahman provided free treatment to villagers, and his murderers, who belonged to Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh, are said to have chosen him as a target because they bungled their research when seeking possible victims.\n\nOn 25 May 2016 Debesh Chandra Pramanik, a 68-year-old Hindu businessman, was attacked and killed in his shoe shop at Gaibandha in Dhaka district. ISIL claimed responsibility for the attack, their second in Bangladesh in less than a week.\n\nOn 7 June 2016, Ananda Gopal Ganguly, a 70-year-old Hindu priest, had his throat slit by suspected Islamists in the Jhenaidaha district of the Khulna division, soon after three suspected Islamists were killed by police. He was said to have been hacked and shot at, with a cut to the throat being the death blow. Three men attacked him while he was riding on his motorcycle.\n\nOn 10 June 2016 Nityaranjan Pande, a 60-year-old worker at a Hindu monastery in Pabna, was hacked to death by several people near the monastery. Islamist militants have been suspected in his death.\n\nOn 15 June 2016 Ripon Chakraborty, a Hindu college teacher in the Madaripur district was attacked with machete knives at his home by three people. He survived the attack, but was seriously injured. One of the three attackers named Ghulam Faijullaha Fahim was caught while escaping and handed over to police by local people.\n\nOn 1 July 2016 Shyamananda Das, a Hindu temple worker, was hacked to death by three suspected Islamic militants on motorcycles in the Satkhira district. Another two Hindu men, Surendra Sarkar and Tarak Saha, were reportedly injured by suspected Islamic militants in the attack although this has not been confirmed.\n\nOn 2 July 2016 Mong Shwe Lung Marma, a Buddhist farmer and the vice president of ward seven of the Awami league, was hacked to death and assassinated in Bandarban. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the assassination. The victim was killed near the site of a previous killing of another Buddhist.\n\nOn 1 July 2016 at around 11:30 pm local time, six militants entered and opened fire on the Holey Artisan Bakery in Gulshan, a diplomatic neighborhood of Dhaka. They also threw bombs and took several dozen hostages. A total of 28 people were killed, including 17 foreigners, two police officers, and five gunmen. One of the gunmen was captured and 13 hostages were freed by the Bangladesh Armed Forces, police, RAB, BGB, and joint forces. According to Bangladesh's Inspector General of Police, all six of the attackers were Bangladeshi citizens.\n\nNazimuddin Samad (1988 – 6 April 2016) was a law student at Jagannath University and liberal blogger who was reportedly killed by suspected radical Islamists in Dhaka for his promotion of secularism in Bangladesh. Unidentified assailants attacked Samad with a machete and shot him to death. However, Imran H Sarker, convener of the Gonojagaran Mancha said that the murder had been committed by government collusion in order divert attention from the rape and killing of Sohagi Jahan Tonu, a student of Comilla University.\n\nOn 5 June 2016 Mahmuda Khanam Mitu, the wife of a Bangladesh police superintendent Babul Aktar, was stabbed, shot in the head, and killed by three suspected outside of her apartment at a busy road junction in Chittagong. Her six-year-old son was present with her while she was killed. Although she was not secular or atheist, but religious, initially the killing was suspected to have been done by Islamic extremists, as her husband had headed several investigations and operation raids related to the strings of killings committed by Islamic extremists in Chittagong and was awarded. The killings were however condemned by Ansar al-Islam, the suspected Bangladesh chapter of al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent. However, in 2017 Mitu's father, Md Mosharraf Hossain said that circumstantial evidence led him to believe that Babul himself had orchestrated his wife's murder. This allegations arose Babul was alleged to have an extramarital affair Bonani Binte Bonni, wife of deceased Special Branch Sub-Inspector Akram Hossain Liton. Babul hade been previously interrogated by police on several occasions. As of February 2017, police were investigating listed criminal Kamrul Islam Musa, a former informant who had served under Babul Aktar and his accomplice Nabi.\n\nIn the 1990s author Taslima Nasrin achieved notoriety in Bangladesh for \"her bold use of sexual imagery in her poetry, her self-declared atheism, and her iconoclastic lifestyle\". In her newspaper columns and books, she criticized rising religious fundamentalism and government inaction. In early 1992 mobs began attacking book stores stocking her work. The same year she was assaulted at a book fair and her passport was confiscated. In July 1993 her novel \"Lajja\" was banned by the government for allegedly creating \"misunderstanding among communities\". On 23September 1993 a fatwa was issued for her death. After international pressure, her passport was returned in April 1994, after which she traveled to France and returned via India. On 4July 1994, an arrest warrant was issued for her under an old statute dating to the British colonial period outlawing writings \"intended to outrage ... religious believers\", and she went underground. After being granted bail on 3August, Nasrin fled to Sweden, remaining in exile for some years. In 1998 she visited her critically ill mother in Bangladesh but was forced to go into hiding once again after threats and demonstrations. In 2005 she moved to India and applied for citizenship.\n\nOn 18 January 1999 Shamsur Rahman, a leading Bangladeshi poet, was targeted, and a failed attempt was made by Harakat-Ul-Jihad-Ul-Islami to kill him at his residence for his writings.\n\nIn 2003 Bangladeshi secular author and critic Humayun Azad wrote a book named \"Pak Sar Jamin Saad Baad\" criticising the political party, Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami. Azad received numerous death threats from fundamentalist groups after its publication. On 27February 2004, he became the victim of an assassination attempt by assailants armed with machetes near the campus of the University of Dhaka during the annual Ekushey Book Fair. A week prior to that assault, Delwar Hossain Sayeedi, a Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami leader and then member of the parliament, demanded in the parliament that Azad's political satire \"Pak Sar Jamin Saad Baad\" be banned and called for the application of the Blasphemy Act to the author.\n\nOn 12 August 2004 Azad was found dead in his apartment in Munich, Germany, where he had arrived a week earlier to conduct research on the 19th-German romantic poet Heinrich Heine. His family demanded an investigation, alleging that the extremists who had attempted the earlier assassination had a role in this death.\n\nOn 26 April 2006 a Majlish-e-Shura member of Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh named Salahuddin was arrested by RAB from Chittagong as a suspected attacker on Humayun Azad. Salahuddin, accused in 33 cases, was given the death penalty for another murder case.\n\nOn 2 March 2013 the Bangladesh Detective Bureau arrested five members of the extremist organisation Ansarullah Bangla Team for the murder of Ahmed Rajib Haider. The five, all students of North South University, confessed to the crime in front of a magistrate.\n\nOn 2 March 2015 the RAB arrested Farabi Shafiur Rahman, a radical Islamist, as a suspected murderer of Avijit Roy. It was suspected by the police that Farabi had provided Roy's location, identity, and family photographs to various people. Farabi had threatened Roy several times through blogs and social media sites including Facebook. He said on different posts and comments that Roy would be killed upon his arrival in Dhaka.\n\nOn 14 August 2015 Bangladesh police said that they had arrested two men, suspected to be members of the Ansarullah Bangla Team, in connection with the murder of Niloy Neel.\n\nOn 18 August 2015 three members of Ansarullah Bangla Team, including a British citizen named Touhidur Rahman who police described as \"the main planner of the attacks on Avijit Roy and Ananta Bijoy Das\", had been arrested in connection with the two murders.\n\nAhmed Rajib Haider's murder case was handled by a \"fast-track trial court\". On 30December 2015, just under three years later, two members of Ansarullah Bangla TeamMd Faisal Bin Nayem and Redwanul Azad Ranawere found guilty of murder and sentenced to death for Rajib Haider's murder. Faisal, the court said, was the one who attacked Haider with a meat cleaver. Rana absconded and was sentenced in absentia. Another member of the outlawed group, Maksudul Hasan, was also guilty of murder and given a life sentence.\nFive other members of ABT, including firebrand leader Mufti Jasim Uddin Rahmani, received jail terms of five to ten years. One person was given a term of three years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26048769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26048769", "title": "Australian Family Movement", "text": "Australian Family Movement\n\nThe Australian Family Movement was a minor Australian political party formed in 1974 and active throughout the 1970s and 1980s. It originally came out of a group created to oppose the stage show \"Hair\" in Adelaide (this group was successful in convincing the Liberal state government to ban the show).\n\nThe party generally stood for conservative Christian principles, and was particularly opposed to homosexuality, transvestism and androgyny, believing them \"contrary to the natural order\"; and to abortion and euthanasia, placing emphasis on the \"dignity and sanctity of all human life, especially at its beginning and at its end\".\n\nAccording to the Australian Electoral Commission, the Australian Family Movement was registered on 9 August 1984 and deregistered on 25 May 1990.\n\nThe party's ACT division, the Family Team, won a seat in the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly in 1979, with party leader Bev Cains entering the House. She was joined by Betty Hocking in 1982, who served one term. Cains held her seat until the abolition of the House of Assembly, when she was defeated in an attempt to transfer to the new Legislative Assembly.\n"}
{"id": "29364934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29364934", "title": "Baba Brinkman", "text": "Baba Brinkman\n\nDirk Murray \"Baba\" Brinkman (born October 22, 1978) is a Canadian rapper and playwright best known for recordings and performances that combine hip hop music with literature, theatre, and science.\n\nBorn in the remote community of Riondel, British Columbia, in a log cabin built by his parents, Brinkman is the eldest of three children of Joyce Murray, a Member of the Parliament of Canada, and Dirk Brinkman, Sr., who is notable for having founded the world's only private company responsible for planting more than one billion trees. Dirk Sr gave Brinkman the honorific nickname \"Baba\" at birth, because of his son's contemplative, Buddha-like expression. Brinkman's childhood was divided between Vancouver and the Kootenay region of British Columbia.\n\nBrinkman spent his early summers in remote tree planting camps, and began planting trees himself at the age of 15. He worked for his parents' business, Brinkman & Associates Reforestation, for twelve seasons in British Columbia and Alberta, personally planting more than one million trees. During this period he also earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in English Literature from Simon Fraser University and a Master of Arts degree in Comparative Literature from the University of Victoria, Canada. He studied human evolution and primatology with the orangutan researcher Biruté Galdikas and wrote his thesis comparing modern Hip hop freestyle battling with The Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey Chaucer.\n\nBrinkman is married to cognitive neuroscientist and television host Dr. Heather Berlin. They have a daughter, Hannah, born in 2013, and a son, Dylan, born in 2016.\n\nBrinkman first gained widespread media attention for his one-man show \"The Rap Canterbury Tales,\" devised as a means of re-telling Chaucer's iconic stories for a modern audience. The show premiered at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 2004, and the following year Brinkman was sponsored by Cambridge University to perform the show in British secondary schools. The Rap Canterbury Tales was published as an illustrated paperback by Talon Books in 2006.\n\nBrinkman's 2010 follow-up show, \"Rapconteur,\" premiered at the Edinburgh Free Fringe and featured hip hop adaptations of Beowulf, the Epic of Gilgamesh, and the Finnish Kalevala.\n\nIn 2011, Brinkman premiered \"The Canterbury Tales Remixed\" at the Soho Playhouse in New York City. The show combined material from Rapconteur with new adaptations of The Merchant's Tale, The Pardoner's Tale, and The Wife of Bath's Tale and was released as a full-length album in 2012.\n\nBecause of his interest in merging hip-hop and classic literature, Brinkman has referred to his style of rap as \"Lit Hop,\" which was also the title of his 2006 solo rap album.\n\nIn 2008, Brinkman was commissioned to write a new rap show about evolution by Professor Mark Pallen, microbiologist and author of The Rough Guide to Evolution. The result was \"The Rap Guide to Evolution,\" a hip hop homage to Charles Darwin which Brinkman first performed in Britain for the Darwin bicentennial in February 2009. Because the lyrics were fact-checked for scientific accuracy, Professor Pallen calls it \"the first peer-reviewed rap\". Brinkman cites Richard Dawkins, David Sloan Wilson, Jared Diamond, Geoffrey Miller, and E. O. Wilson as his influences in writing the show.\n\nThe Rap Guide to Evolution premiered at the 2009 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, winning a Fringe First Award from The Scotsman for best new theatre writing. In 2010 the UK's largest biomedical charity, the Wellcome Trust, provided grant funding for Brinkman to make a series of educational music videos based on the show, as a resource for biology teachers. The Rap Guide to Evolution completed a five-month Off-Broadway theatre run in November 2011, for which Brinkman received a 2012 Drama Desk Award nomination for Outstanding Solo Performance, losing to Irish actor Cillian Murphy.\n\nBrinkman has performed selections from The Rap Guide to Evolution on The Rachel Maddow Show and at the Seattle Science Festival, sharing the stage with Jurassic Park palaeontologist Jack Horner and British physicist Stephen Hawking.\n\nIn 2010 Brinkman produced a \"Rationalist Anthem\" called \"Off That,\" attacking various forms of pseudoscience. The song was inspired by the Jay Z track of the same name, which is featured on The Blueprint 3 album. The video for Brinkman's unauthorized remix was released as part of an online science music festival called Geek Pop and was popular with atheist blogs.\n\nBrinkman followed up his Darwin tribute with a sequel show specifically about evolutionary psychology, \"The Rap Guide to Human Nature,\" which premiered at the Edinburgh Fringe in 2010. The album features \"peer review\" phone messages from David Buss, Olivia Judson, and David Sloan Wilson commenting on the science content in Brinkman's lyrics. In 2012 \"Human Nature\" was adapted into a theatre production, \"Ingenious Nature,\" which ran off-Broadway from November 2012 through January 2013.\n\nIn March 2012, Brinkman was announced as a songwriter-in-residence at the National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIMBioS) and spent a month at the University of Tennessee Knoxville as a guest of the Institute, along with DJ and music producer Jamie Simmonds. Brinkman later released \"The Infomatic EP,\" a collection of hip-hop songs inspired by computational biology.\n\nBrinkman's next play, \"Rap Guide to Religion,\" premiered at the 2014 Edinburgh Fringe, before transferring to the Soho Playhouse for an off-Broadway run in October 2014. The production ran for seven months and was a Time Out New York and New York Times Critics' Pick, as well as receiving a 2015 Drama Desk Award nomination in the category \"Unique Theatrical Experience\". The show explores theories from the cognitive science of religion and promotes religious naturalism, prompting American Humanist Association magazine to refer to Brinkman as \"atheism's best salesman\".\n\nIn 2015, Brinkman was commissioned by Arizona State University and Dr. Randolph Nesse to write and produce an album entitled \"The Rap Guide to Medicine\", which communicates themes from evolutionary medicine. Dr. Nesse said of the finished project: \"This is amazing. I won't need to teach my course, I'll just have students listen to the album!\" The album includes songs about Mendelian disease, parasitology, somatic evolution in cancer, mismatch theory, and senescence.\n\nIn 2014 and 2016, Brinkman attended the Science of Consciousness conference in Tucson, AZ, performing a \"Rap Up\" or daily rap summary of the conference talks on Neuroscience and Philosophy of Mind. Computational neuroscientist Anil Seth saw Brinkman's performances and proposed they collaborate on a new show about the neuroscience of consciousness. Brinkman premiered \"Rap Guide to Consciousness\" at the 2017 Brighton Fringe, Winnipeg Fringe and Edinburgh Fringe to critical acclaim. The show explores several neurobiological theories of consciousness, including Global Workspace Theory, Integrated Information Theory, and Predictive Coding, as well as the Philosophical Zombie, Free Will, Materialism, and Memetics.\n\nBrinkman was commissioned by the WILD Foundation to produce \"The Rap Guide to Wilderness\" in 2014. The album was critically acclaimed and features songs about biodiversity, extinction, conservation, habitat loss and trophic cascade.\n\nIn 2015 Brinkman's play \"Rap Guide to Climate Chaos\" premiered at the Edinburgh Fringe, followed by performances at the COP21 United Nations Climate Change Conference. \"Climate Chaos\" went on to play off-Broadway for six months in 2016, and featured Michael E. Mann, Gavin Schmidt, Naomi Oreskes and Bill Nye as talkback speakers. Bill Nye also features on the album version of \"Climate Chaos\", rapping the chorus of the track \"What's Beef\", which remixes a Notorious B.I.G. song to discuss climate change denial. \"Rap Guide to Climate Chaos\" summarizes the science, politics, and economics of climate change and advocates for a global carbon tax as part of the solution.\n\nIn 2016, after the election of Donald Trump, Brinkman worked with Wesleyan University professor Gary Yohe, a senior contributor to the IPCC and co-recipient along with Al Gore of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize, to produce a new song and video entitled \"Erosion\", summarizing data from the National Climate Assessment on the US-based physical impacts of climate change.\n\nBrinkman and his wife, the neuroscientist Dr. Heather Berlin, co-wrote and performed in a science comedy variety show entitled \"Off The Top\" at the Edinburgh Fringe in 2014, 2015, and 2017 about the neuroscience of improvisation and freestyle rap.\n\nThe Rap Guide to Evolution won the National Center for Science Education's 2013 Friend of Darwin Award. The show is controversial primarily for its open criticism of creationism and the essentialist elements of its discussion of natural selection. Teachers have also expressed concern about Brinkman's use of strong language and anti-religious sentiments in his educational performances and videos.\n\nBrinkman himself has been described as an \"evangelical atheist\" and has blogged about his encounters with creationists, both in educational settings and within his own family. He also performed in support of the Military Association of Atheists & Freethinkers \"Rock Beyond Belief\" concert alongside Richard Dawkins at Fort Bragg, NC in 2012.\n\nIngenious Nature was reviewed unfavourably, and Brinkman received criticism for \"singling out women in the audience, pointing at them, and rapping about their ovulation cycles,\" among other things.\n\nThe song \"Tranquility Bank\" from The Rap Guide to Wilderness received a hostile response from some environmentalists because of its assertion that urban living is better for the environment than back-to-the-land movements.\n\n2004: The Rap Canterbury Tales\n\n2008: The Rebel Cell (co-written with Dizraeli)\n\n2009: The Rap Guide to Evolution\n\n2010: Rapconteur\n\n2010: The Rap Guide to Human Nature\n\n2011: The Canterbury Tales Remixed\n\n2012: Ingenious Nature\n\n2014: The Rap Guide to Religion\n\n2015: The Rap Guide to Climate Chaos\n\n2004: Swordplay\n\n2004: The Rap Canterbury Tales\n\n2005: Pandemonium\n\n2006: Lit-Hop\n\n2008: Mine the Gap (Mud Sun)\n\n2008: The Rebel Cell (Mud Sun)\n\n2009: The Rap Guide to Evolution\n\n2009: Apocalyptic Utopian Dreams in the Western Wilderness\n\n2010: Rapconteur\n\n2010: The Rap Guide to Human Nature\n\n2011: The Rap Guide to Evolution: Revised\n\n2011: The Rap Guide to Business\n\n2012: The Canterbury Tales Remixed\n\n2012: The Infomatic EP\n\n2014: The Rap Guide to Wilderness\n\n2015: The Rap Guide to Medicine\n\n2015: The Rap Guide to Religion\n\n2016: The Rap Guide to Climate Chaos\n\n2017: The Rap Guide to Consciousness\n\nThe Rap Canterbury Tales, Talon Books 2006\n\n\"The Speciation of Rap\" The Evolutionary Review, Volume 2, March 2011\n\n\"Finding 'God' in the Female Orgasm\" The Evolutionary Review, Volume 3, May 2012\n\n\"Darwin On The Mic\" Evolution, Volume 69, Issue 5\n\n"}
{"id": "17737663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17737663", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Turkmenistan", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Turkmenistan\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Turkmenistan begins before Russian advances into the region when the area was under the influence of Persia. By 1887 a community of Bahá'í refugees from religious violence in Persia had made a religious center in Ashgabat. Shortly afterwards — by 1894 — Russia made Turkmenistan part of the Russian Empire. While the Bahá'í Faith spread across the Russian Empire and attracted the attention of scholars and artists, the Bahá'í community in Ashgabat built the first Bahá'í House of Worship, elected one of the first Bahá'í local administrative institutions and was a center of scholarship. During the Soviet period religious persecution made the Bahá'í community almost disappear — however, Bahá'ís who moved into the regions in the 1950s did identify individuals still adhering to the religion. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in late 1991, Bahá'í communities and their administrative bodies started to develop across the nations of the former Soviet Union; In 1994 Turkmenistan elected its own National Spiritual Assembly however, laws passed in 1995 in Turkmenistan required 500 adult religious adherents in each locality for registration and no Bahá'í community in Turkmenistan could meet this requirement. As of 2007 the religion had still failed to reach the minimum number of adherents to register and individuals have had their homes raided for Bahá'í literature.\n\nThe Bahá'í community of Ashgabat (also spelled `Ishqábád, Ashkhabad) was founded in about 1884, mostly from religious refugees from Persia. One of the most prominent members of the community was Mirza Abu'l-Fadl Gulpaygani, an Apostle of Bahá'u'lláh, who lived in Ashgabat off and on from 1889 to 1894. A short time after moving there, the assassination of one of the Bahá'ís there, Haji Muhammad Rida Isfahani occurred and Gulpaygani helped the Bahá'í community to respond to this event and later he was the spokesman for the Bahá'ís at the trial of the assassins. This event established the independence of the Bahá'í Faith from Islam both for the Russian government and for the people of Ashgabat. Under the protection and freedom given by the Russian authorities, the number of Bahá'ís in the community rose to 4,000 (1,000 children) by 1918 and for the first time anywhere in the world a true Bahá'í community was established, with its own hospitals, schools, workshops, newspapers, cemetery, and House of Worship. The city population was between 44 and 50 thousand at this time.\n\nThis first Bahá'í House of Worship was constructed inside the city of Ashgabat. The design of the building was started in 1902, and the construction was completed in 1908; it was supervised by Vakílu'd-Dawlih, another Apostle of Bahá'u'lláh. The House of Worship in Ashgabat has been the only Bahá'í House of Worship thus far to have the humanitarian subsidiaries associated with the institution built alongside it.\n\nThe city of Merv (also spelled Marv, Mary) had a Bahá'í community, while it was far smaller and less developed. The Bahá'í community in the city received permission to build a House of Worship which they did on a smaller scale.\n\nBy the time the effects of the October Revolution began to spread across the Russian Empire transforming it into the Soviet Union, Bahá'ís had spread east through Central Asia and Caucasus, and also north into Moscow, Leningrad, Tbilisi and Kazan with the community of Ashgabat alone numbering about 3000 adults. After the October Revolution the Ashgabat Bahá'í community was progressively severed from the rest of the worldwide Bahá'í community. In 1924 Bahá'ís in Merv had schools and a special committee for the advancement of women. Initially the religion still grew in organization when the election of the regional National Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the Caucasus and Turkistan in 1925.\n\nHowever, the Bahá'í House of Worship was expropriated by the Soviet authorities in 1928, the Bahá'í schools had been closed in 1930, and the House of Worship was leased back to the Bahá'ís until 1938 when it was fully secularized by the communist government and turned into an art gallery. The records of events shows an increasing hostility to the Bahá'is between 1928 and 1938. From 1928 free rent was set for five years, and the Bahá'ís were asked to make certain repairs, which they did. But in 1933, before the five-year rent agreement expired the government suddenly decided expensive renovations would be required. These unexpected requirements were accomplished, but in 1934 complaints about the condition of the building were again laid. Inquires from abroad silenced the complaints. In 1936 escalated demands were made beyond the resources of the local community. The Bahá'ís of Turkistan and the Caucasus rallied and were able to sustain the construction requested. Then the government made moves to confiscate the main gardens of the property to provide for a playground of a school (the school itself being confiscated from the Bahá'ís originally) which would wall off the grounds from the Bahá'ís — leaving only an entrance to the temple through a side entrance rather than the main entrance facing the front of the property. Protests lead to the abandonment of this plan; then in 1938 all pretexts came to an end.\n\nThe 1948 Ashgabat earthquake seriously damaged the building and rendered it unsafe; the heavy rains of the following years weakened the structure. It was demolished in 1963 and the site converted into a public park. With the Soviet ban on religion, the Bahá'ís, strictly adhering to their principle of obedience to legal government, abandoned its administration and its properties were nationalized. By 1938, with the NKVD (Soviet secret police) and the policy of religious oppression most Bahá'ís were sent to prisons and camps or abroad; Bahá'í communities in 38 cities ceased to exist. In the case of Ashgabat, Bahá'í sources indicate on 5 February the members of the assembly, leaders of the community and some general members of the community to a total of 500 people were arrested, homes were searched and all records and literature were confiscated (claiming they were working for the advantage of foreigners), and sometimes forced to dig their own graves as part of the interrogation. It is believed one woman set fire to herself and died later in a hospital. The women and children were largely exiled to Iran. In 1953 Bahá'ís started to move to the Soviet Republics in Asia, after the head of the religion at the time, Shoghi Effendi, initiated a plan called the Ten Year Crusade. The Bahá'ís who moved to Turkmenistan found some individual Bahá'ís living there though the religion remained unorganized. During the 1978-9 civil war in Afghanistan some Bahá'ís fled to Turkmenistan. \n\nThe first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in the Soviet Union was elected in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan, when conditions permitted it in 1989; 61 Bahá'ís were listed as eligible for election. The Local Spiritual Assembly was officially registered by the city council of Ashgabat on 31 January 1990. Through the rest of 1990 several Local Spiritual Assemblies formed across the Soviet Union including Moscow, Ulan-Ude, Kazan, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Leningrad, and Murmansk. In September 1990, 26 Baha'is gathered together for the election of the first Local Spiritual Assembly of Merv. By September 1991, there were some 800 known Baha'is and 23 Local Spiritual Assemblies across the dissolving Soviet Union, while in Turkmenistan there were about 125 Bahá'ís with two Local Assemblies and two groups (in Balakhanih and Bayranali). When the National Spiritual Assembly of the Soviet Union was dissolved in 1992, a regional National Spiritual Assembly for the whole of Central Asia (Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kirgizia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan) was formed with its seat in Ashgabat. Most of these countries went on to form their own National Spiritual Assembly, and their communities went on to flourish (see Bahá'í Faith in Kazakhstan.)\n\nSince its inception, the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development — beginning by giving greater freedom to women. promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, That involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities where they lived. World-wide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. As the environment of Perestroika took hold across the Soviet Block, the Bahá'í community of Ashgabat was the first to re-form its Local Spiritual Assembly following the oppressive decades of Soviet rule, had doubled its numbers from 1989 to 1991, and had successfully registered with the city government of Ashgabat.\n\nHowever, the nation of Turkmenistan revised its religious registration laws such that, in 1995, 500 adult religious adherent citizens were required in each locality for a religious community to be registered. Thus by 1997 the Bahá'ís were unregistered by the government along with several other religious communities. More than just being unable to form administrative institutions, own properties like temples, and publish literature, perform scholarly work and community service projects — their membership in a religion is simply unrecognized: The religion is considered banned, and homes are raided for Bahá'í literature. As of 2007, under these harsh conditions, the Bahá'í community in Turkmenistan was unable to reach the required number of adult believers to be recognized by the government as a religion. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 1000 Bahá'ís across Turkmenistan in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39150271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39150271", "title": "Banishment of Buddhist monks from Nepal", "text": "Banishment of Buddhist monks from Nepal\n\nThe banishment of Buddhist monks from Nepal was part of a government campaign to suppress the resurgence of Theravada Buddhism in Nepal in the early decades of the 20th century. There were two deportations of monks from Kathmandu, in 1926 and 1944.\n\nThe exiled monks were the first group of monks to be seen in Nepal since the 14th century. They were at the forefront of a movement to revive Theravada Buddhism, which had disappeared from the country more than five hundred years ago. The tyrannical Rana dynasty disapproved of Buddhism and the Newar language. It saw the activities of the monks and their growing following as a threat. When police harassment and imprisonment failed to deter the monks, all of whom were Newars, they were deported.\n\nAmong the charges made against them were preaching a new faith, converting Hindus, encouraging women to renounce and thereby undermining family life and writing books in Newari.\n\nIn 1926, five monks along with their Tibetan guru Tsering Norbu were expelled from the country. These five monks, whose Dharma names were Bauddha Rishi Mahapragya, Mahaviryya, Mahachandra, Mahakhanti and Mahagnana, had been ordained under the Tibetan Buddhist tradition.\n\nThe government objected to Mahapragya, who was born a Hindu, converting to Buddhism and the monks making alms rounds in Kathmandu. The police arrested the monks and jailed and questioned them. The case went up to the prime minister, Chandra Shumsher JBR, who ordered their banishment. They were given a few days to beg for provisions under the condition that they return to the police station to sleep. Then they were marched to the Indian border under police escort. The five monks and their teacher first went to Bodh Gaya, India, from where they scattered, some of them going to Burma and Tibet.\n\nIn 1944, another group of eight monks were sent into exile. Their Dharma names were Pragyananda Mahasthavir, Dhammalok Mahasthavir, Subhodhananda, Pragyarashmi, Pragyarasa, Ratnajyoti, Agga Dhamma and Kumar Kashyap Mahasthavir. This time they were accused of encouraging women to renounce and writing in Newari. The monks were summoned before the prime minister Juddha Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana and ordered to sign a pledge that they would stop their activities. When they refused, they were ordered out of the country.\n\nThe monks went to Kushinagar and then Sarnath in India. There they founded Dharmodaya Sabha (Society for the Rise of the Teaching) which worked to promote Buddhism and published religious literature from exile. Some of the monks remained in India while others went to Tibet, Bhutan and Sri Lanka. Bhaju Ratna Kansakar, a Nepalese merchant based in Kalimpong, was one of their largest supporters in exile.\n\nIn 1946, a Sri Lankan goodwill mission visited Kathmandu and interceded on behalf of the monks. The delegation emphasized that Nepal was the birthplace of the Buddha, and that his followers should be free to practice their faith in the country where he was born. Subsequently, the ban was lifted and the monks returned and devoted themselves to spreading the faith with greater energy.\n\nIn 1951, the Rana regime was ousted by a revolution and democracy established in Nepal. With democracy, overt persecution of Buddhists ended.\n"}
{"id": "28213644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28213644", "title": "Battle of Rohilla", "text": "Battle of Rohilla\n\nThe Battle of Rohilla was a 1621 campaign by the Mughal Empire against the growing influence of the Sikhs. Because of historic persecution from the Mughal Empire, Guru Hargobind had militarized the Sikhs which resulted in increased political and military power. Thus he was attacked by a group of local jagirdars under the command of Abdul Khan. Local jagidar got killed by Rao Mandan Rathore and the rest of the army fled the field of battle resulting in a decisive Sikh victory.\n"}
{"id": "38023324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38023324", "title": "Book of Wonders", "text": "Book of Wonders\n\nThe Kitab al-Bulhan كتاب البلهان, or Book of Wonders, or Book of Surprises, is a mainly 14th century Arabic manuscript compiled, and possibly illustrated, by Abd al-Hasan Al-Isfahani. The codex was probably bound during the reign of Jalayirid Sultan Ahmad (1382-1410) at Baghdad, and includes texts on astronomy, astrology, geomancy and a section of full-page illustrated plates dedicated to each discourse topic, e.g. a folktale, a sign of the zodiac, a prophet, etc.\n\nThe calligrapher, copiest and compiler, ʿAbd al-Hasan ibn Ahmad ibn ʿAli ibn al-Hasan al-Isfahani, whose family came from Isfahan in Iran was a native of Baghdad where he studied the Aristotelic ‘demonstrative’ (burhan) sciences. It seems the Kitab al-Bulhan was commissioned by, or the idea of, Shaykh al-Diya Husayn al-Irbili’originally of Irbil near Mosul in northern Iraq who sold it to Haydar ibn al-Hajji ʿAbd al-Karim ibn Muhammad in Dec 1409 - Jan 1410. The original codex comprised a series of treatises, which came apart and when sections were reassembled and some lost, it became jumbled and incoherent. The work includes extracts copied from the \"Kitab al-mawalid\" or ‘Book of Nativities’ of the astronomer and neo-Platonist Abu Maʿshar al-Balkhi (787-886 CE) of Balkh (modern-day Mazar-i Sharif) in northern Afghanistan.\n\nIn the late C. 16th two Turkish copies were made from the original for the two daughters of the Ottoman sultan Murad III (r. 1574–95.), one for Aysha Sultan, (c. 1582), the other for Fatma Sultan. These manuscripts are complete and establish the original order of the treatises of the Kitab al-Bulhan. The codices are now held at the Pierpont Morgan Library, New York City and the Bibliotèque Nationale, Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48938732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48938732", "title": "Das Granthi", "text": "Das Granthi\n\nDas Granthi(ਦਸ ਗ੍ਰੰਥੀ) is a small religious booklet containing only few selected compositions from Dasam Granth, the second scripture of Sikhs. Das stands for \"Ten\" and Granthi stands for \"booklet\". It means Booklet of 10th Guru of Sikhism.\nThis booklet was created for beginners and lay readers for reading these compositions in daily liturgy for proper understanding. \n\nThere is no standardization of this booklet and various sects in Sikhism have their own version of Das Granthi. SGPC contains eight texts namely, Japu, Bachitra Natak, Chandi Charitra I, Shabad Patshahi 10, Akal Ustati, Chandi Charitra 2, Gian Prabodh and Chandi di Var.\n"}
{"id": "30622807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30622807", "title": "David Monongye", "text": "David Monongye\n\nDavid Monongye was a Hopi Native American traditional leader (Kikmongwi of Hotevilla). Son of Yukiuma, keeper of the Fire Clan tablets, who founded Hotevilla in 1906. He is one of four Hopis (including Thomas Banyacya, Dan Evehema, and Dan Katchongva) who decided or were appointed to reveal Hopi traditional wisdom and teachings, including the Hopi prophecies for the future, to the general public in 1946, after the use of the first two nuclear weapons on Japan.\n\nMonongye's age is uncertain. He was alive in 1906 when Oraibi split into two villages, and lived to at least 1985, and at least 117.\n\nIn 1972, Monongye and three other Hopi elders participated in the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment. Monongye was a co-author of Techqua Ikachi, the traditional Hopi newsletters produced from 1975 to 1986. Monongye inspired Godfrey Reggio's 1982 film, Koyaanisqatsi: Life Out of Balance. Monongye was vocal about problems generated by coal-mining on Hopi land.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3432525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3432525", "title": "David Wolpe", "text": "David Wolpe\n\nDavid J. Wolpe (born 1958) is the Max Webb Senior Rabbi of Sinai Temple. Named the most influential rabbi in America by \"Newsweek Magazine\" and one of the 50 most influential Jews in the world by the \"Jerusalem Post\", David Wolpe is the rabbi of Sinai Temple in Los Angeles, California. He previously taught at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America in New York, the American Jewish University in Los Angeles, Hunter College, and UCLA. Wolpe’s work has been profiled in the \"New York Times\", and he is a columnist for \"Time.com\", he regularly writes for many publications, including \"The LA Times,\" the \"Washington Post’s On Faith website, The Huffington Post,\" and the \"New York Jewish Week\". He has been on television numerous times, including the \"Today Show\", \"Face the Nation\", \"ABC this Morning\", and \"CBS This Morning\". In addition, Wolpe has been featured in series on PBS, A&E, the History channel, and the Discovery channel. Wolpe is the author of eight books, including the national bestseller \"Making Loss Matter: Creating Meaning in Difficult Times\". Wolpe’s new book is titled \"David: The Divided Heart\". It was a finalist for the National Jewish Book Award (2014), and has been optioned for a movie by Warner Bros.\n\nWolpe became the focus of international controversy when he gave a Passover sermon that questioned the historicity of the Exodus from Egypt. Ordained by the Jewish Theological Seminary of America in New York in 1987, Wolpe is a leader in Conservative Judaism.\n\nHe is the brother of bioethicist Paul Root Wolpe.\n\nWolpe has taught at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America in New York, and served as assistant to the Chancellor of that institution; at the University of Judaism (now the American Jewish University) in Los Angeles; and at Hunter College in New York. He frequently is featured on documentaries on Biblical topics produced by A&E Networks (A&E, The Biography Channel, History Channel and History Channel International). Wolpe has written a regular weekly column for the New York Jewish Week for almost 25 years. Wolpe's book, \"Why Faith Matters\", is both an answer to books about atheism and a recounting of his battle with illness (he has undergone two surgeries for a brain tumor and chemotherapy for lymphoma). He has had public debates with Christopher Hitchens, Sam Harris, Steven Pinker, Roger Cohen, Richard Dawkins, Matt Ridley, and Indian yogi and mystic Sadhguru, among others. Wolpe is the model for Jacob Kappelmacher, the rabbi detective in J. M. Appel's best-selling mystery novel, \"Wedding Wipeout\" (2012).\n\nWolpe is the Max Webb Senior Rabbi of Sinai Temple.\n\nWolpe has led numerous missions to Israel. The first, in June 2002, was a solidarity mission at the height of the Second Intifada that broke out after the Camp David peace talks. The second, in May 2005, was a mission of gratitude to pick up the Torah commissioned in honor of his recovery from brain surgery. The third, in July 2006, at the height of the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah War, was another solidarity mission that covered Jerusalem, Haifa, and Sderot. In the midst of the second intifada, Wolpe raised three million dollars for victims of terror in a single morning at his synagogue. Wolpe also led the largest American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) delegation ever assembled from one synagogue to the AIPAC conference in Washington in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 with numbers ranging from 230-300 delegates. Wolpe also traveled to Haiti to help his friend Mitch Albom \"(Tuesdays with Morrie)\" rebuild an orphanage.\n\nOn Passover 2001, Wolpe told his congregation that \"the way the Bible describes the Exodus is not the way it happened, if it happened at all.\" Casting doubt on the historicity of the Exodus during the holiday that commemorates it brought condemnation from congregants and several rabbis (especially Orthodox Rabbis). The ensuing theological debate included whole issues of Jewish newspapers such as the \"Jewish Journal\" in Los Angeles and editorials in \"The Jerusalem Post\", as well as an article in the \"Los Angeles Times\". Critics asserted that Wolpe was attacking Jewish oral history, the significance of Passover and even the First Commandment. Wolpe asserted that he was arguing that the historicity of the events should not matter, since he believes faith is not determined by the same criteria as empirical truth. Wolpe argues that his views are based on the fact that no archeological digs have produced evidence of the Jews wandering the Sinai Desert for forty years, and that excavations in Israel consistently show settlement patterns at variance with the Biblical account of a sudden influx of Jews from Egypt.\n\nIn March 2010, Wolpe expounded on his views saying that it was possible that a small group of people left Egypt, came to Canaan, and influenced the native Canaanites with their traditions. He added that the controversy of 2001 stemmed from the fact that Conservative Jewish congregations have been slow to accept and embrace biblical criticism. Conservative rabbis, on the other hand, are taught biblical criticism in rabbinical school.\n\nOn November 10, 2005, Rabbi Wolpe addressed the Jewish Theological Seminary and proposed that the name of Conservative Judaism be changed to \"Covenantal Judaism,\" to better encompass the view that rabbinic law is both binding and evolving.\n\nWolpe is a committed vegetarian. Rob Eshman suggests that Wolpe \"leans vegan.\" Wolpe serves on the Rabbinic Council of Jewish Vegetarians of North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3679429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3679429", "title": "Delosperma cooperi", "text": "Delosperma cooperi\n\nDelosperma cooperi (syn. \"Mesembryanthemum cooperi\"; common names Trailing Iceplant, Hardy Iceplant, or \"Pink Carpet\") is a dwarf perennial plant, native to South Africa. It forms a dense lawn with abundant, long-lasting flowering. It will reach sizes of approximately tall, with fleshy leaves and a trailing stem that hangs down.\n\nThe flowers are the most brilliant aspect of this plant, with the production of a great quantity of vermillion, magenta or pink flowers that will often cover the entire site, hence the popular name \"pink carpet\". The plant contains ramified stems that are spread out, carrying sheets opposed, and are long and narrow, with the end of the stems increasing into a quantity of isolated small flowers, with diameters ranging from . These abundant and long-lasting flowers will remain in bloom from July through September. The plant is sun-loving, and thrives well in very dry and hot environments. While it adapts well to various soil types, it will suffer under water stagnation, and thus prefers well drained soils, or even rocky terrain.\n\nAccording to the New Mexico State University extension, the common name, \"ice plant\" is because \"they have bladder-like hairs on the leaf surface that reflect and refract light in a manner to make it appear that they sparkle like ice crystals\" (or tiny glass beads). However, many other species of succulent so-called \"ice plant\" ground covers have smooth and hairless leaves.\n\nIt can be cultivated in a wide range of areas with a Mediterranean climate. Unlike many ice plants, this species is hardy to , successfully overwintering at locations such as Denver, Colorado and Chicago, Illinois. The leaves turn red in cold winter temperatures. Due to the low need for maintenance, it is suitable for urban environments and high temperature regions. It can often be found in large, extensive patches. The trailing stems also make it suitable for flowerpots and terraces.\n\nPropagation can be accomplished by taking a flowerless cutting, stripping a couple of bottom leaves off, and then replanting in the same soil.\n\nThe plant contains the halucinogen chemicals DMT and 5-MeO-DMT, which can be extracted from the leaves. The content of these chemicals varies over the year. The content of 5-MeO-DMT rises during the summer and the content of DMT instead rises during the winter.\n\n"}
{"id": "10272350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10272350", "title": "Denkoroku", "text": "Denkoroku\n\nThe book includes 53 enlightenment stories covering 1600 or more years based on the traditional legendary accounts of Dharma transmission in the Sōtō lineage. Successive masters and disciples in the book are Shakyamuni Buddha circa 360 to 440 BCE in India, to Zen master Ejō in about 1230 or 1240 in Japan.\n\nWhile other translations are available as of 2012, this article was developed for the most part from the introduction and translator's note by Francis Dojun Cook.\n\nDharma transmissions covered 28 ancestors from India and 23 from China, followed by Dōgen and Ejō in Japan. Out of modesty and his sense of propriety, Keizan, the 54th ancestor, omitted himself and Tettsu Gikai, one of his teachers who was a student of Ejō and was still alive in 1300. Each chapter is a few pages, except in a couple cases where the author wants to explain a point.\n\nThe format for each koan account is in four parts: (1) the main koan case that is the enlightenment encounter between master and disciple, (2) a brief biographical account on the life of the disciple including context for the encounter, (3) Keizan's \"teisho\" or commentary on the koan, and (4) a verse written by Keizan summarizing the point, following the Zen tradition of understanding presented by the master or disciple in poetry.\n\nThe book is not true in a strictly historical sense: for example, Bodhidharma is probably a mythical figure, the Sixth Patriarch was probably not Huineng, and someone else probably wrote the \"Platform Sutra\". Instead \"Denkōroku\" may be read as true in the sense that great novels like \"Moby-Dick\" or \"The Great Gatsby\" are true. Keizan included fantastical or magical details from the lives of some ancestors, especially those in India, which audiences in times past may have appreciated but which today might be met with skepticism.\n\nThe following summary is taken from the Cook translation table of contents, with names according to Thomas Cleary in parentheses.\n\nKeizan begins with Shakyamuni, the historical Buddha, followed by his disciple Mahākāśhyapa (Kasyapa), and then Ananda, both of whom knew Buddha before he died. Following are Shanavasa, Upagupta, Dhritaka (Dhrtaka), Micchaka, Vasumitra, Buddhanandi, Buddhamitra (Punyamitra), Parshva, Punyayashas, Ashvaghosa (Ashvaghosha), and Kapimala. Then comes Nagarjuna, Kanadeva, Rahulata, Sanghanandi, Gayashata (Jayashata), Kumarata, Jayata, Vasubandhu, Manorhita (Manora), Haklenayashas (Haklena), Aryasimha (Sinha), Basiasita (Vashashita), Punyamitra, and Prajnatara. Finally, Bodhidharma was the 28th ancestor from India. \n\nFollowing Bodhidharma, Dazu Huike (Huike [Shenguang]) was the 29th ancestor, the 2nd in China. Following are Jianzhi Sengcan (Sengcan), Dayi Daoxin (Daoxin), Daman Hongren (Hongren), Dajian Huineng (Huineng), Qingyuan Xingsi (Qingyuan), Shitou Xiqian (Shitou), Yaoshan Weiyan (Yaoshan), Yunyan Tansheng (Yunyan), Dongshan Liangjie (Dongshan), Yunhju Daoying (Yunju), Tongan Daopi (Daopi), Tongan Guanzhi (Tongan), Liangshan Yuanguan (Liangshan), Dayang Jingxuan (Dayang), Touzi Yiqing (Touzi), Furong Daokai (Daokai), Danxia Zichun (Danxia), Zhenxie Qingliao (Wukong), Tiantong Zongjue (Zongjue), Xuedou Zhijian (Zhijian), and Tiantong Rujing (Rujing).\n\nThe 51st ancestor was Eihei Dogen who traveled from Japan to China and back. The 52nd ancestor was his student, Koun Ejō.\n\nKeizan originally gave this series of 53 Dharma talks to the monks of the Daijō-ji monastery during spring and the following winter \"ango\" practice periods. Keizan was 36 years old at the time.\n\nAccording to one translator, Francis Cook, there is some controversy and \"uneasiness\" about authorship. At first, the work was hidden from the public eye for nearly 600 years. A monk named Sen'ei was the first to publish it, in 1857, or 557 years after it was written. Then in 1886, Yoshida Gizan published an annotated edition in Kyoto. In 1885, Sōji-ji published what is called the Honzan edition, based on a manuscript copy owned by a private collector. The oldest existing manuscript copy was found in 1959. It is thought to have been copied during the late to mid-15th century. Komazawa University published a catalog in 1962, which listed 11 copies. By 1976, 19 copies were known—some of them verified and some not. Some of these copies were known to no longer exist. Okubo Doshu, a noted Dogen scholar, doubted the work's author for a number of reasons, including discrepancies in the last two chapters, along with the absence of a historical record attributing what is a major work to Keizan. But neither he nor any other scholar has ever come out to say that Keizan is \"not\" the author, so the consensus remains to attribute the work to Keizan.\n\nWhile Dōgen is held to be the school's founder, Keizan was in large part responsible for the flourishing of Sōtō Zen. He resisted the purist approach taken by Dōgen who preferred to teach and write; he took care to serve his congregation who might have dead or dying relatives; he founded new monasteries and temples; and he attracted followers like Gashau and Meiho who became his successors. Today Sōtō Zen remains one of the largest Buddhist organizations in Japan.\n\nOne translator, Cleary, writes:\n"}
{"id": "11895880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11895880", "title": "Disputatio nova contra mulieres", "text": "Disputatio nova contra mulieres\n\nDisputatio nova contra mulieres, qua probatur eas homines non esse (English translation: \"A new argument against women, in which it is demonstrated that they are not human beings\") is a satirical misogynistic Latin-language treatise first published in 1595 and subsequently reprinted several times, particularly throughout the 17th and 18th centuries. \"Disputatio\" was written anonymously, although it has been attributed to Valens Acidalius, a 16th-century German critic.\n\nDespite the fact that the treatise was meant to parody the Socinian Anabaptist belief that Jesus of Nazareth was not divine, several anti-feminists utilized a literal interpretation of the tract to support their views. \"Disputatio\" proved to be unusually provocative in its time for a publication of its size, which eventually led to the Catholic Holy See listing the manuscript in its \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" (\"List of Prohibited Books\") on multiple occasions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27003771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27003771", "title": "Districts of the Church of the Brethren", "text": "Districts of the Church of the Brethren\n\nThe districts of the Church of the Brethren are 23 regional divisions that serve to administer the 1,035 congregations of the Church of the Brethren in the United States and Puerto Rico. Districts are divided along state and county lines with membership and geographic scope varying widely. The Church of the Brethren is present in 34 states, Puerto Rico, and Washington, D. C. in addition to their overseas missions.\n\nThe district system has existed amongst Schwarzenau Brethren since 1856—prior to the 1881–1883 split—and served the administrative purpose of determining delegates to the Annual Conference who could represent the interests of various communities and report back to them the proceedings. The Church of the Brethren is governed by a Congregationalist model of church polity, so most decisions are made locally by individual congregations without interference from any hierarchical structure. Delegates from districts serve the purpose of raising issues at Annual Conferences (called \"queries\") which affect the Church of the Brethren at large or which have a scope greater than that of a single congregation or locality—e.g. the ordination of women or how to regulate funds for missions activities. Due to the increase in queries presented to the Annual Conference, in 1856, the Brethren approved the establishment of districts of no less than five churches that would answer queries that had a local scope.\n\nThe Church of the Brethren began missionary activities in the late 19th century, which included the establishment of churches in Africa, the Americas, Asia, and Europe. Although most foreign missions closed by the middle of the 20th century, several remain worldwide. The most successful such mission has been (EYN) (Hausa for \"Church of the Children of the Same Mother\"), the Nigerian church which was granted autonomy in 1975.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13195127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13195127", "title": "Edfu-Project", "text": "Edfu-Project\n\nThe Edfu project is being undertaken with the primary goal of translations of inscriptions of an ancient temple of Edfu.\n\nIn 1986, Professor Dr. Dieter Kurth of Hamburg University initiated a long-term project that is devoted to a complete translation of the hieroglyphic inscriptions of the Temple of Edfu in Upper Egypt (Temple of Horus) that meets the requirement of both linguistics and literary studies.\nIn addition, the research comprises all internal parallels, relevant literature and an analysis of the systematics behind the decoration. Comprehensive analytical indices – which are useful for researchers of related disciplines – and a grammar of Graeco-Roman temple inscriptions are compiled, too. Situated at the University of Hamburg, the Edfu project was financed by the \"German Research Foundation\" until 2001. Since 2002, the Academy of Sciences of Göttingen is in charge of the Edfu project, which is now financed by the \"Academies' Programme\". The research unit works still at Hamburg University.\nA translation of the inscriptions of the pylon (gate) including transcriptions and a commentary was published in 1998 (Edfou VIII). In 2004, it was followed by a translation of the inscriptions of the outer girdle wall (Edfou VII) some of which had not been published before. The most recent publication, released in 2014, provides a translation of the inscriptions of the inner side of the girdle wall (Edfou VI). Inscriptions of the open court and its columns (Chassinat, Edfou V-VI) are available in preliminary translation. \n\n\n\"This volume contains the translation of the texts on the temple's pylon.\"\n\n\n\"This volume contains the translation of the outer side of the girdle wall.\"\n\n\n\"This volume contains the translation of the inner side of the girdle wall.\"\n\n\nthis reference not currently included:\npage 78-79 By Dieter Arnold Copyright Copyrighted (2003 retrieved 21/09/2011\n\n"}
{"id": "34925499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34925499", "title": "Esther Shalev-Gerz", "text": "Esther Shalev-Gerz\n\nEsther Shalev-Gerz (born Gilinsky) is a contemporary artist. She lives and works in Paris, London and New York City.\n\nEsther Shalev-Gerz was born in Vilnius, Lithuania. In 1957, she moved with her family to Jerusalem, Israel.\n\nFrom 1975 to 1979 she studied Fine arts at the Bezalel Academy of Art and Design where she got her Bachelor of Fine Arts. She then lived in New York City for one year (1980/81).\n\nFrom 1981 she participated in collective exhibitions in institutions such as the Israel Museum in Jerusalem and the Tel Aviv Museum of Art.\n\nIn 1983 she produced her first work in public space: \"Oil on Stone\", a permanent installation in Tel Hai, Israel, for the Tel Hai Contemporary Art Meeting.\n\nIn 1984 the artist moved to Paris and started working through Europe and Canada.\n\nIn 1990 she got an artistic residency from the German Academic Exchange Service and moved to Berlin for one year.\n\nIn 2002 she stayed at the IASPIS residency in Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2014 she taught the Master of Fine Arts students in Valand Academy, University of Gothenburg, Sweden.\n\nHer latest major exhibitions were \"Ton Image me Regarde?!\", 2010, in the Galerie nationale du Jeu de Paume, Paris, in which ten of her installations were displayed and her retrospective entitled \"Between Telling and Listening\", 2012, in the Cantonal Museum of Fine Arts in Lausanne, Switzerland where she presented 15 of her installations. Besides, her work was the subject of an itinerary personal exhibition in Canada between 2012 and 2014, firstly in the Kamloops Art Gallery, then in the Belkin Art Gallery, UBC, Vancouver and finally in the Galerie de l'UQAM, Montreal.\n\nIn 2010 she received a three-year grant from the Swedish Research Council for her Artistic Research project \"Trust and the Unfolding Dialogue\".\n\nIn 2013 was released the illustrated anthology \"Esther Shalev-Gerz, The Contemporary Art of Trusting Uncertainties and Unfolding Dialogues\" edited by Jason E. Bowman that gathers new texts around Shalev-Gerz's work and the notion of Trust as well as formerly published texts on her art. Among the authors are Jacques Rancière, Georges Didi-Huberman, Jacqueline Rose, James E. Young, Lisa Le Feuvre.\n\nIn 2014 her team is one of the six finalists of the competition for the design of the Canadian National Holocaust Monument in Ottawa, with the teams of Yael Bartana, Daniel Libeskind, Krzysztof Wodiczko, David Adjaye or Gilles Saucier.\n\nIn 2015 the Fonds municipal d'art contemporain of the city of Geneva acquired the artwork \"Les Inséparables\", 2000-2010, a monumental double-clock installed as a permanent work in public space.\n\nEsther Shalev-Gerz questions the perpetual construction of the relationship between an experience and the telling one gives of it. She analyses portraiture, which she understands as the reflection of a person, place or event. Her work invites the spectator to an opening to the ambiguities and multiplicities acting in the collective memory. Her installations, photography, video and public sculpture are developed through dialogue, consultation and negotiation with people whose participation provides an emphasis to their individual and collective memories, accounts, opinions and experiences. Constantly inquiring into transitional qualities of time and space and the correlative transformation of identities, locales and (hi)stories Esther Shalev-Gerz has produced a body of work that simultaneously records, critiques, and contributes to the understandings of the societal roles and value of artistic practice.\n\nIn her text entitled \"The Perpetual Movement of Memory\", Shalev-Gerz describes her practice: \"In my works in the public realm, a space is constructed for memories activated by participation, that is to say, the moment when the supposed spectator becomes a participant by writing his name, using his voice or sending in his photo. Thanks to the traces left during this acts, these participants keep the memory of their own participation in the work’s procedure, which also bears witness to their responsibility to their own times.\"\n\nIn an interview with Marta Gili, director of the Jeu de Paume, Shalev-Gerz adds: \"I try to enter the space that opens between listening and telling in order to get away from the logic of discourse, that is to say, to accede to another kind of space and consider it artistically. It’s a kind of \"reveal\" of the intelligibility of the sensible/sensitive or of a memory that differs from the one constructed by words, akin to concepts that traverse the body, able to be picked up by the gaze.\"\n\nAnd also: \"As an artist, it is very important for me to trust the participants – whom I approach (right away) as equals, and whose contributions are an element of the project. I think that this is what makes it possible to produce the work: trust in the other person’s intelligence.\"\n\nIn his text entitled \"The Image of the Other\", in the catalogue of the exhibition \"Does Your Image Reflect Me?\" Ulrich Krempel provides his understanding of Shalev-Gerz’ work: \"One thing is certain: only by talking and listening, passing on first-hand experience, images, emotional glances and moments, can we bring ourselves to the point where remembrance is converted into action\".\n\nJacques Rancière in his text \"The Work of the Image\", for the catalogue of \"MenschenDinge/The Human Aspect of Objects\", republished in the catalogue of the Jeu de Paume show, described the artist’s work in these words: \"Esther Shalev-Gerz does not give voice to the witnesses of the past or of elsewhere, but to researchers that are at work in the here and now. She makes the ones who come from elsewhere speak of the present as they do of the past, of here as of there. She makes them speak about the way they have thought and arrange the relationship between one place and another, one time and another. But also the dispositifs that she constructs are themselves dispositifs that distend their words, and subject them to representation of the conditions governing their listening and uttering.\"\n\n\"We invite the citizens of Harburg, and visitors to the town, to add their names here to ours. In doing so we commit ourselves to remain vigilant. As more and more names cover this 12 metre-high lead column, it will gradually be lowered into the ground. One day it will have disappeared completely and the site of the Harburg monument against fascism will be empty. In the long run, it is only we ourselves who can stand up against injustice.\"\n\nThe column was sunk into the ground seven times from 1986 to 1993. All that remains visible are a lead plaque on the ground, the text panel and photos of the different stages.\n\n\"We invite the citizens of Harburg, and visitors to the town, to add their names here to ours. In doing so we commit ourselves to remain vigilant. As more and more names cover this 12 metre-high lead column, it will gradually be lowered into the ground. One day it will have disappeared completely and the site of the Harburg monument against fascism will be empty. In the long run, it is only we ourselves who can stand up against injustice.\"\n\nThe column was sunk into the ground seven times from 1986 to 1993. All that remains visible are a lead plaque on the ground, the text panel and photos of the different stages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5142400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5142400", "title": "François Baudouin", "text": "François Baudouin\n\nFrançois Baudouin (1520–1573), also called Balduinus, was a French jurist, Christian controversialist and historian. Among the most colourful of the noted French humanists, he was respected by his contemporaries as a statesman and jurist, even as they frowned upon his perceived inconstancy in matters of faith: he was noted as a Calvinist who converted to Catholicism.\n\nHe was born at Arras, then part of the Empire, and educated in the convent school at St. Vaast. Baudouin studied law in the University of Leuven with Mudaeus. He settled as an advocate in Arras, where he continued his studies, but was banned from the town in 1545 on charges of heresy due to his Calvinist leanings. He went to the court of the Emperor Charles V at Brussels, and then travelled extensively.\n\nAfter brief stays in Paris, Strasbourg and Geneva – where he met and became an enemy of Calvin – he settled in 1549 in Bourges as a doctor and then professor of law, as a colleague of Baro and Duarenus. Rivalries with the latter led him to move to Strasbourg and, 1555, to Heidelberg, where his academic career reached its apogee.\n\nLeaving his chair to engage in European confessional politics, Baudouin was unsuccessful in assisting with attempts to reconcile the Roman Catholic Church and the Reformation, for instance in the failed Colloquy at Poissy, and in mediation efforts in the Netherlands. In 1563, he re-converted to Catholicism and in 1569, he was called again to teach law at Angers. Before he could accompany his patron, Henry of Anjou – now King of Poland – to Kraków, he died 1573 in Paris of a fever.\n\nBaudouin was a prolific writer on juridical and ecclesiastical topics. As a jurist, he established the palingenetic method of presentation of legal sources. His works include many substantial commentaries on Roman law. He was the first to reconstruct the original legislation of Justinian and to authenticate a text (the ‘Octavius’) of the early Christian writer Minucius Felix (200-400). Baudouin had produced a monograph on the Emperor Constantine in 1556.\n\nHe wrote a study of a major dispute between Catholics and Donatists (and the Emperor Constantine's first large-scale dealing with the Christian church), the episcopal election of Carthage in 313.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15027247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15027247", "title": "Glossary of Christianity", "text": "Glossary of Christianity\n\nThis is a glossary of terms used in Christianity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42710127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42710127", "title": "Hindu Temple of Dayton", "text": "Hindu Temple of Dayton\n\nThe Hindu Temple of Dayton, is a Hindu temple located in Beavercreek, Ohio. It serves the Hindu community of the Greater Dayton Area. Currently, there are shrines to the deities Venkateshwara, Rama along with Sita, Lakshmana and Hanuman, Ganesha, and Radha Krishna.\n\nThe congregation was first organized in 1976. A. V. Rangarajan was instrumental in organizing the Indian community in Dayton. He was a founding member of the temple. A temple was consecrated in 1985 in Beavercreek. In 2009, ground was broken next to the temple in order to build a Puja Hall. The hall serves as a multipurpose area for celebrations, classes, and cultural activities. \nStarting in 2011, the temple underwent two years of major renovations. During these renovations, shrines to Bhagawan Chandramauli, Tripura Sundari, Bhudevi, Lakshmi and Navagraha were added. The end of construction was marked by a six-day festival.\n\nThe Dayton Hindu Temple is organized by Hindu Community Organization, Inc, a non-profit organized for the purpose of maintaining the temple. Like most religious organizations, the Dayton Hindu Temple has an executive committee, Board of Directors, and a Board of Trustees. The Hindu Temple of Dayton publishes a bi-monthly newsletter, Mandir Vani, in which the organization, services, news, and religious information is discussed. The temple raises money through donations, fundraisers, and services.\n\nSeveral hundred people visit the temple on a weekly basis. Two priests perform services based on Hindu principles. As with most Hindu temples, fees can be charged for special prayers and services. There are also scheduled events and services held throughout the week. Every Sunday, the god Venkateshwara is given a sacred bath, while Shiva is bathed on Mondays.\n\nIn addition, the Dayton Hindu Temple serves as a community center. There are weekly table tennis games, anniversary celebrations, summer camps for children, lectures, and yoga classes.\n"}
{"id": "20621536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20621536", "title": "Irreligion in India", "text": "Irreligion in India\n\nAtheism and agnosticism have a long history in India and flourished within the Sramana movement. Indian religions like Jainism, Buddhism and certain schools of Hinduism, though not all, consider atheism to be acceptable. India has produced some notable atheist politicians and social reformers. According to 2011 Census of India, 99.76% of Indians identified with a religion while 0.24% did not state their religious identity. According to the 2012 WIN-Gallup Global Index of Religion and Atheism report, 81% of Indians were religious, 13% were non-religious, 3% were convinced atheists, and 3% were unsure or did not respond.\n\nIn Hinduism, the religion of the majority of Indians, atheism is considered to be a valid path to spirituality, as it can be argued that God can manifest in several forms with \"no form\" being one of them. But, the path is considered difficult to follow. The belief in a personal creator God is not required in Jainism and Buddhism, both of which also originated in the Indian subcontinent. Atheistic schools are also found in Hinduism.\n\nHindu philosophy is divided into schools (\"darśanam\"). These schools can be categorised as \"āstika\" (orthodox), schools which conforms to the Vedas, and \"nāstika\" (heterodox), schools reject the Vedas. The six schools \"Sāṃkhya\", \"Yoga\", \"Nyāya\", \"Vaiśeṣika\", \"Mimāṃsā\" and \"Vedānta\" are considered \"āstika\" (orthodox), while Jainism, Buddhism, \"Cārvāka\" and Ājīvika are considered \"nāstika\" (heterodox).\n\nThe \"Cārvāka\" school originated in India around the 6th century BCE. It is classified as a \"nāstika\" school. It is noteworthy as evidence of a materialistic movement in ancient India. Followers of this school only accepted \"pratyakşa\" (perception) as a valid \"pramāna\" (evidence). They considered other \"pramāna\" like \"sabda\" (testimony), \"upamāna\" (analogy), and \"anumāna\" (inference) as unreliable. Thus, the existence of a soul (\"ātman\") and God were rejected, because they could not be proved by perception. They also considered everything to be made of four elements: earth, water, air and fire. The Cārvāka pursued elimination of physical pain and enjoyment of life. So, they can be considered hedonistic. All of the original Cārvāka texts are considered lost. A much quoted \"sūtra\" (Barhaspatya sutras) by Brhaspati, who is considered the founder of the school, is thought to be lost. The \"Tattvopaplavasimha\" by Jayarāśi Bhaṭṭa (8th century CE) and the \"Sarvadarśanasaṅ̇graha\" by Madhavacarya (14th century) are considered important secondary Cārvāka texts.\n\n\"Sāṃkhya\" is an \"āstika\" school, but has some atheistic elements. Sāṃkhya is a radically dualist philosophy. They believed that the two ontological principles, \"puruṣa\" (consciousness) and \"prakriti\" (matter), to be the underlying foundation of the universe. The objective of life is considered the achievement of separation of pure consciousness from matter (\"kaivalya\"). The reasoning within this system led to the \"Nir-isvara Sāṃkhya\" (\"Sāṃkhya\" without God) philosophy, which deemed the existence of God as unnecessary. There is the opposing reasoning which accepts God, called \"Sesvara Sankhya\" (\"Sāṃkhya\" with God). \"Samkhya Karika\" (c. 350 CE) is the earliest known systematic text of this philosophy.\n\n\"Mīmāṃsā\" (meaning exegesis) is also an \"astika\" school. They believed the Vedas to be author-less and self-authenticating. They did not accept the Vedas as being composed by any \"ṛishi\" (saint), they considered them to not be authored by anyone (\"apauruṣeya\"). They accepted the minor deities of the Vedas but resisted any notion of a Supreme Creator. They only concentrated on upholding the \"ṛta\" (order) by following the duties of the Vedas. The foundational text of this school is the \"Mīmāṃsā Sutra\" by Jaimini (c. 200 BCE - 200 CE).\n\n\"Ājīvika\" is yet another \"astika\" school with an atheistic outlook. None of their scriptures survive and there is some question as to whether or not the accounts of them in secondary sources (often hostile) are accurate. They believed in a naturalistic atomic theory and held that the consequence of natural laws led to a deterministic universe. They denied karma, but upheld the atman. They lived in ascetic communities and existed in southern India until at least the 14th century.\n\nGautama Buddha rejected the existence of a creator deity, refused to endorse many views on creation and stated that questions on the origin of the world are not ultimately useful for ending suffering. Buddhism instead emphasises the system of causal relationships underlying the universe, pratītyasamutpāda, which constitute the dharma and source of enlightenment. No dependence of phenomena on a supernatural reality is asserted in order to explain the behaviour of matter.\n\nJainism rejects the idea of a creator deity responsible for the manifestation, creation, or maintenance of this universe. According to Jain doctrine, the universe and its constituents (soul, matter, space, time, and principles of motion) have always existed. All the constituents and actions are governed by universal natural laws and an immaterial entity like God cannot create a material entity like the universe. Jainism offers an elaborate cosmology, including heavenly beings (devas), but these beings are not viewed as creators; they are subject to suffering and change like all other living beings, and must eventually die. Jains define godliness as the inherent quality of any soul characterising infinite bliss, infinite power, Kevala Jnana (pure infinite knowledge) and Perfect peace. However, these qualities of a soul are subdued due to karmas of the soul. One who achieves this state of soul through right belief, right knowledge and right conduct can be termed a god. This perfection of soul is called kevalin or bodhi. A god thus becomes a liberated soul – liberated of miseries, cycles of rebirth, world, karmas and finally liberated of body as well. This is called moksha.\n\nAjita Kesakambali was a materialist philosopher. He is mentioned in the \"Samaññaphala Sutta\". He rejected gods, an afterlife and karma. Payasi is a character, referred to as a prince, who appears in the Buddhist text \"Digha Nikaya\" in the \"Payasi Sutta\". He didn't believe in rebirth or karma. He debated Kassapa, a disciple of Buddha, and lost according to Buddhist sources.\n\nIn the Hindu epic \"Ramayana\" (\"Ayodhya Khanda\"), when Bharata goes to the forest to convince Rama to return home, he was accompanied by a sophist called Jabali (\"\"). Jabali uses nihilistic reasoning to convince Rama. He also says that rituals are a waste of food and scriptures were written by smart men so that people will give alms. But Rama calls him a deviant from the path of \"dharma\" (\"), refuses to accept his \"nastika\"\" views and blame his own father for taking Jabali into service. He also equates the Buddha to a thief. On hearing Rama's retort, Jabali retracts his statements, saying that he was merely arguing like a nihilist. However, these verses referring to the Buddha are considered a later interpolation, as those verses use a different metre.\n\nA character described as a Carvaka briefly appears in the \"Mahabharata\" (in the \"Shanti Parva\"). As Yudhishthira enters the city of Hastinapur, a brahmin, referred to as Carvaka, accuses him of killing his own kinsmen and says that he would suffer for it. The accuser is revealed to a \"rakshasa\" in disguise, who was a friend of Duryodhana. He had existed since the Krita Yuga by virtue of a boon from the god Brahma, that he could only be killed when he is showing contempt towards brahmins. He was killed by other brahmins by the chanting of sacred hymns and Yudhishthira was assured that his actions were the within the kshatriya code. This event may be a possible denigration of the Carvaka philosophy.\n\nIn the 9th century CE, Jain philosopher Jinasena wrote the Mahapurana. The book contains the following often quoted words,\n\nThis quote was also featured later in Carl Sagan's book, Cosmos. In the 14th century, philosopher Madhavacarya wrote the \"Sarvadarśanasaṅ̇graha\", which is a compilation of all Indian philosophies, including \"Carvaka\", which is described in the first chapter.\n\nBetween 1882 and 1888, the Madras Secular Society published a magazine called \"The Thinker\" (\"Tattuvavivesini\" in Tamil) from Madras. The magazine carried articles written by anonymous writers and republished articles from the journal of the London Secular Society, which the Madras Secular Society considered itself affiliated to.\n\nPeriyar E. V. Ramasamy (1879 - 1973) was an atheist and rationalist leader of Self-Respect Movement and Dravidar Kazhagam. His views on the irreligion are based on the eradication of the caste system, religion must be denied to achieve the obliteration of caste system.\n\nVinayak Damodar Savarkar (1883 –1966) was an eminent Hindu nationalist leader of the Indian independence movement. He was also an atheist and a staunch rationalist who disapproved of orthodox Hindu belief, dismissing cow worship as superstitious. Being Hindu, for him, was a cultural and political identity.\n\nSatyendra Nath Bose (1894 – 1974) was an atheist physicist specialising in mathematical physics. He is best known for his work on quantum mechanics in the early 1920s, providing the foundation for Bose–Einstein statistics and the theory of the Bose–Einstein condensate.\n\nMeghnad Saha (1893 – 1956) was an atheist astrophysicist best known for his development of the Saha equation, used to describe chemical and physical conditions in stars.\n\nJawaharlal Nehru (1889–1964), India's first Prime Minister was a self-described scientific humanist. He wrote in his autobiography, \"Toward Freedom\" (1936), about his views on religion and superstition.\n\nBhagat Singh (1907-1931), an Indian revolutionary and socialist nationalist who was hanged for using violence against British government officials. He laid out his view in the essay Why I Am an Atheist, written in jail shortly before his death.\n\nSubrahmanyan Chandrasekhar (1910–1995), atheist astrophysicist known for his theoretical work on the structure and evolution of stars. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1983.\n\nGoparaju Ramachandra Rao (1902-1975), better known by his nickname \"Gora\", was a social reformer, anti-caste activist and atheist. He and his wife, Saraswathi Gora (1912-2007) who was also an atheist and social reformer, founded the Atheist Centre in 1940. The Atheist Centre is an institute working for social change. Gora expounded his philosophy of positive atheism as a way of life. He later wrote more about positive atheism in his 1972 book, \"Positive Atheism\". Gora also organised the first World Atheist Conference in 1972. Subsequently, the Atheist Centre has organised several World Atheist Conferences in Vijayawada and other locations.\n\nKhushwant Singh (1915-2014), a prominent and prolific writer, of Sikh extraction, was avowedly non-religious.\n\nIn 1997, the Federation of Indian Rationalist Associations was founded.\n\nAmartya Sen (1933-), an Indian economist, philosopher and Nobel laureate, is an atheist and he holds that this can be associated with one of the atheist schools in Hinduism, the Lokayata.\n\nMumbai Rationalist Association, the successor of Maharashtra Rationalist Association, is actively involved in developing scientific temper and eradicating superstition. \n\nIn 2008, the website Nirmukta was founded. It later became an organisation aiming to promote free thought and secular humanism in India.\n\nIn 2009, historian Meera Nanda published a book entitled \"The God Market\". It examines how Hindu religiosity is gaining more popularity in the rising middle class, as India is liberalising the economy and adopting globalisation.\n\nIn March 2009, in Kerala, a pastoral letter addressing the laity was issued by the Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council urging the members to not vote for political parties which advocate atheism. In July 2010, another similar letter was issued.\n\nOn 10 March 2012, Sanal Edamaruku investigated a so-called miracle in Vile Parle, where a Jesus statue had started weeping and concluded that the problem was caused by faulty drainage. Later that day, during a TV discussion with some church members, Edamaruku accused the Catholic Church of miracle-mongering. On 10 April, Angelo Fernandes, President of the Maharashtra Christian Youth Forum, filed a police complaint against Edamaruku under the Indian Penal Code Section 295A. In July while on a tour in Finland, Edamaruku was informed by a friend that his house was visited by the police. Since the offence is not bailable, Edamaruku stayed in Finland.\n\nOn Friday 7 July 2013, the first \"Hug an Atheist Day\" was organised in India by Nirmukta. The event aimed to spread awareness and reduce the stigma associated with being an atheist.\n\nOn 20 August 2013, Narendra Dabholkar, a rationalist and anti-superstition campaigner, was shot dead by two unknown assailants, while he was out on a morning walk.\n\nThere is a growing number of Indian Muslims gradually leaving Islam, driven by a questioning mind and joining the group of Ex-Muslims.\n\nAtheism and irreligion are not officially recognised in India. Apostasy is allowed under the right to freedom of religion in the Constitution, and the Special Marriage Act, 1954 allows the marriage of people with no religious beliefs, as well as non-religious and non-ritualistic marriages. However, there are no specific laws catering to atheists and they are considered as belonging to the religion of their birth for administrative purposes.\n\nOn 29 October 2013, the Bombay High Court judged in favour of an atheist school teacher from Nashik. Sanjay Salve had been employed by the state-funded Savitribai Phule Secondary School since 1996. In June 2007, during a prayer session, Salve didn't fold his hands during the pledge or prayer. The school management called this indiscipline and refused him a higher pay grade in 2008 when Salve became eligible for it. Salve sought legal recourse citing the Section 28 (a) of the Constitution which states \"no person attending any educational institution recognised by the State or receiving aid out of State funds shall be required to take part in any religious instruction that may be imparted in such institution or to attend any religious worship that may be conducted in such institution\". The court ruled in Salve's favour and directed the school to release his dues by 31 January 2013.\n\nOn 23 September 2014, the Bombay High Court declared that the government cannot force a person to state a religion on any document or form. The court also stated any citizen has the right to declare that he/she doesn't belong to any religion. The decision came in response to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Ranjit Mohite, Kishore Nazare and Subhash Ranware, representing an organisation called Full Gospel Church of God, after the Maharashtra state printing press refused to issue them a gazette notification stating that they belonged to no religion. The petitioners stated that the organisation had 4000 members, and that they believe in Jesus Christ but they do not follow Christianity or any religion. Responding to the petition, the Maharashtra and the central governments had stated that \"no religion\" cannot be treated as a religion on official forms. The court cited the Article 25 of the Constitution, which guarantees right to freedom of conscience, while passing the verdict.\n\nNarendra Nayak has claimed to have been attacked thrice and twice had his scooter damaged, one of the attacks leaving him with head injuries. This compelled him to take self-defence lessons and carry a nunchaku. Megh Raj Mitter's house was surrounded by a mob after he debunked the Hindu milk miracle, forcing him to call the police.\n\nOn 15 March 2007, a bounty of lakh was announced on atheist Bangladeshi author Taslima Nasrin, while living in India, by a Muslim cleric named Maulana Tauqeer Raza Khan for allegedly writing derogatory statements about Mohammad in her work. In December 2013, an FIR was filed against Nasrin in Bareilly by a cleric named Hasan Raza Khan, for hurting religious sentiments. Nasrin had allegedly tweeted on Twitter that \"In India, criminals who issue fatwas against women don't get punished.\" Raza Khan said that by accusing clerics of being criminals, Nasrin had hurt religious sentiments.\n\nOn 2 July 2011, the house of U. Kalanathan, secretary of the Kerala Yukthivadi Sangham, was attacked in Vallikunnu after he suggested on television that the temple treasures of Padmanabhaswamy Temple should be used for public welfare. On 20 August 2013, Narendra Dabholkar, a rationalist and anti-superstition campaigner, was assassinated.\n\nOn 16 February 2015, rationalist Govind Pansare and his wife were attacked by unknown gunmen. He later died from the wounds on 20 February. On 30 August 2015, M. M. Kalburgi, a scholar and rationalist, was shot dead at his home. He was known for his criticism of superstition and idol worship. Soon afterwards, another rationalist and author, K. S. Bhagwan, received a threatening letter. He had offended religious groups by criticizing the Gita.\n\nIn March 2017, an Indian Muslim youth from Coimbatore, 31-year-old A Farooq, who became atheist, was killed by members of a Muslim radical group.\n\nThe Indian census does not explicitly count atheists. In the 2011 Census of India, the response form required the respondent to choose from six options under religion. The \"Others\" option was meant for minor or tribal religions as well as atheists and agnostics.\n\nThe religion data from 2011 Census of India was released in August 2015. It revealed that about 2,870,000 people had stated no religion in their response, about 0.27% of the nation's population. However, the number included atheists, rationalists and also those who believed in a higher power. K. Veeramani, a Dravidar Kazhagam leader, said that it was the first time the number of non-religious people was recorded in the census. However, he added that he believed that the number of atheists in India was actually higher as many people don't reveal their atheism out of fear.\n\nAccording to the 2006 World Values Survey, conducted by the Dentsu Communication Institute Inc, Japan Research Center (2006), 6.6% of Indians stated that they had no religion.\n\nAccording to the 2005 Global Index of Religion and Atheism report from WIN-Gallup, 87% of Indians were religious and 4% called themselves atheists. According to the 2012 report by the same organisation, 81% of Indians were religious, 13% were not religious, 3% were convinced atheists and 3% were unsure or did not respond.\n\nIn 2007, a survey was conducted by the Institute for the Study of Secularism in Society and Culture of the Trinity College with the help of Center for Inquiry (India) called Worldviews and Opinions of Scientists in India. 1100 scientists surveyed from 130 institutes. Most of them identified themselves as secular (59%) or somewhat secular (16%) but refused to be labelled irreligious. 83% defined secularism, as it appears in the Indian constitutions, as the separation of state and religion. But, 93% also defined it as tolerance of other religious philosophies. 20% equated secularism to atheism. Only 11% called themselves completely not spiritual. However, 8% reportedly said they would refuse to do stem cell research based on religious or moral convictions. Y. S. Rajan commented on this saying that most Indians don't feel there is a conflict between science and religion. Other the hand, Innaiah Narisetti, chairman of Center for Inquiry (India) and Pushpa Bhargava, the former director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, pointed out the lack of scientific temper among Indian scientists.\n\nIn a survey conducted by Elaine Howard Ecklund of Rice University, it was found that:\n\nThe ongoing study has surveyed 1,581 scientists from UK and 1,763 from India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6442830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6442830", "title": "JTNews", "text": "JTNews\n\nThe JTNews (formerly The Jewish Transcript) was a Jewish-American newspaper that served the U.S. state of Washington. The biweekly paper, published in Seattle, was owned by the Jewish Federation of Greater Seattle and had a readership of 16,000. Founded by Herman Horowitz, it was first published on March 6, 1924, as the \"Jewish Transcript of the Pacific Northwest\". The paper ceased publication in February 2015. It was replaced by \"Jewish in Seattle\", which first published in August 2015.\n"}
{"id": "18825713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18825713", "title": "Justus Baronius Calvinus", "text": "Justus Baronius Calvinus\n\nJustus Baronius Calvinus (b. at Kanthen, Germany, c. 1570; d. after 1606) was a German theologian, a Roman Catholic convert and apologist.\n\nHe was born of Calvinist parents and educated at Heidelberg, where he took a course in theology. His study of the Church Fathers inclined him towards Catholicism and finally led him to Rome. There he was kindly received by Cardinal Bellarmine, Cardinal Baronius, and Pope Clement VIII. His gratitude to Baronius caused him to add that cardinal's name to his own. \n\nOn his return to Germany he became a Catholic (1601) and a staunch defender of his faith. In his \"Apologia\" (Mainz, 1601) he gives the reasons for his conversion and in his \"Praescriptionum adversus haereticos ... Tractatus\" (ibid. 1602, 1756) he appeals to the Fathers in support of the truth of Catholicism.\n\n"}
{"id": "7723878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7723878", "title": "Khamti people", "text": "Khamti people\n\nThe Tai Khamti (, \"Chao Tai Kam Dtee\") (, Hkamti Shan) (Shan language: တႆး ၶမ်းတီႈ ) (Khamti: တဲး ၵံးတီႈ)() or simply Khamti as they are also known, are a sub-group of the Tai peoples found in the Hkamti Long region of Kachin state and Hkamti District of Sagaing Division of Myanmar. In India, they are found in Namsai district and Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh . Smaller numbers can be found in Lakhimpur district, Dhemaji district and Munglang Khamti village in Tinsukia district of Assam and possibly in some parts of China. According to the census of India (2011) the Khamtis have a population of 140,310 out of which 129,250 live in Arunachal Pradesh and 11,060 in Assam. However, in Myanmar their total population is estimated at 200,000 people. The tribe's name is spelled 'Khampti' by the Assamese.\n\nThe Tai Khamtis who inhabit the region around the Tengapani basin were descendants of migrants who came during the 18th century from the Hkamti long region, the mountainous valley of the Irrawaddy. The Khamti possess South East Asian features.\n\nThe Tai-Khamti are followers of Theravada Buddhism. The Tai-Khamti have their own script for their language, known as 'Lik Tai', which was originated from the Shan (Tai) script of Myanmar. Their mother tongue is known as Khamti language. It is a Tai language, closely related to Thai and Lao.\n\nThe Khamti society is divided into classes, each signifying distinct status in the social hierarchy. The chiefs occupy the highest positions, followed by the priests, who wield considerable influence over all ranks. In the past, the slaves constituted the lowest rank.\n\nThe Tai-Khamti are very strong believers of Theravada Buddhism. Houses have a prayer rooms, and they pray every morning and evening by offerings flowers (nam taw yongli) and food (khao tang som). They are peace-loving people.\n\nHouses of the Tai-Khampti are built on raised floors with thatched roofs. The roofs are constructed so low that the walls remain concealed. Wooden planks are used for flooring, and the walls are made of bamboo splices.\n\nThe Khamti are settled agriculturists. They use a plough (thaie) drawn by a single animal, either an ox or a buffalo (or even an elephant in olden days).\n\nThe Khamti raise crops such as paddy rice (khow), mustard/sesame seeds (nga) and potato (man-kala). Their staple food is rice, usually supplemented by vegetables, meat and fish. They drink a beer made from rice (low) as a beverage that is not served during festivals. Some of the well-known dishes are \"khao puk\" (made out of sticky rice and sesame seeds), \"khao lam\" (bamboo rice), \"paa sa\" (fresh river fish soup with special herbs), \"paa som\", and \"nam som\" among others. Beef is considered taboo.\n\nKhamti is a Southwestern Tai language spoken in Myanmar and India by the Khamti people. It is a Daic language, specifically Kadai, Kam-Tai, Tai, Southwestern, Northwest branch. The language seems to have originated around Mogoung in Upper Myanmar. It is closely related to Thai and Lao languages.\n\nThree dialects of Khamti are known: North Burma Khamti, Assam Khamti and Sinkaling Khamti. Speakers of Khamti are bilingual, largely in Assamese and Burmese.\n\nCurrently there are about 200,000 Khamti speakers in Myanmar and 130,00 in northeastern part of India (Arunachal Pradesh and Assam areas)\n\nThe Tai Khamtis have their own writing character called 'Lik-Tai.'\n\nTai-Khampti alphabet, which is in pristine form, closely resembles Northern Shan alphabet of Myanmar with some of the letters taking divergent shapes. Their script is evidently derived from the Lik Hto Ngauk script since hundreds of years ago. There are 35 letters including 17 consonants and 14 vowels. The script is traditionally taught in monasteries on subjects like tripitaka, Jataka tales, code of conduct, doctrines and philosophy, history, law codes, astrology and palmistry etc. The first printed book was published in 1960. In 1992 it was edited by the Tai Literature Committee, Chongkham. In 2003 it was again modified with tone marking by scholars of Northern Myanmar and Arunachal Pradesh.\n\nThe traditional Khamti dress of men is a full sleeved cotton shirt (siu pachai) and multi-coloured lungi (phanoi). The women's dress consists of a blouse (siu pasao), a deep-coloured long skirt (sinn) made from cotton or silk, and a coloured silk scarf (famai). Married woman wear in plain black long wrap-around skirt (sinn) and above that a shorter green wrap-around skirt (langwat).\n\nTheir jewelry consists of bright amber earrings, coral, beaded necklaces and gold ornaments. The Khamti men usually tattoo their bodies.\n\nThe Khamti tie their hair into a large knot, which is supported by a white turban (fa-ho). The chiefs wear a long coat made of silk. The hair is drawn up from the back and sides in one massive roll, measuring four to five inches in length. An embroidered band, the fringed and tasseled ends of which hang down behind, encircles the roll.\n\nThe Khamti are renowned for their craftsmanship. Their sword is known as pha-nap. Their priests are known to be amateur craftsmen, who use wood, bone or ivory to carve religious statues.\n\nIt is believed that by shaping ivory handles of weapons they will evince great skill. Their weapons include poisoned bamboo spikes (panjis), spear, bow and arrow, sword, and shield, usually made of rhinoceros or buffalo hide. The Khamti also have firearms which resemble old flint muskets and horse pistols. The sword is carried on the front of the body, so that its hilt can be grasped in the right hand if needed.\n\nThe dance \"Ka Poong Tai\" is one of the main dramatic art form of the Tai Khamtis. Unlike many forms of traditional Arunachali dance, the Khamti dance is a dance drama, expressively and elegantly reflect the rich culture of the Khamti Buddhists.\n\nThe traditional folk dances of the Tai Khamtis have their roots in Southeast Asian countries like Thailand and Myanmar. The community has many folk dances and each dance has religious background. Some of the popular Tai Khamti dance dramas are:\n\n\nSangken is the main festival of Khamti. It is celebrated on 14 April. The true colors of secular India are at the Sangken festival where people irrespective of their tribe, caste, culture, race, etc., participate in the rituals.\n\nThe main attraction of the festival is splashing clean water, which is the symbol of peace and purity. The images of Buddha are taken out and after the ceremonial bath. The procession is accompanied by drums, dances and enjoyment. This holy bath of is an auspicious event. The celebration takes place for three consecutive days. During the celebration the locals make homemade sweet and distribute them. The exchange of gifts is a common trait of the festival.\n\nThere are festivals other than Sangken celebrated throughout the year. Some of the festivals are Poi-Pee-Mau (Tai Khampti New Year), Mai-Kasung-Phai, Khoa-Wa, Poat-Wa, etc.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "9172874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9172874", "title": "Kulwant Singh Pannu", "text": "Kulwant Singh Pannu\n\nMajor General Kulwant Singh Pannu, MVC () was an officer of the Indian Army and a recipient of the Maha Vir Chakra. He was initially commissioned as an officer in the 3 Gorkha Rifles in 1952, and joined the Parachute Regiment in 1957 after completing the paratrooper officers' course. Pannu is most famous for having led 2 Para in the famous Tangail Airdrop to capture the Poongli Bridge over the River Jamuna on 11 December 1971, during the Bangladesh Liberation War. The battalion was airdropped near Tangail (now in Bangladesh) and tasked to cut off the 93 Brigade of Pakistani Army which was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka and its approaches. For his conspicuous gallantry and leadership, Pannu was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra.\n"}
{"id": "2880732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2880732", "title": "List of Buddha claimants", "text": "List of Buddha claimants\n\nThe people described below have claimed to have attained enlightenment and become buddhas, claimed to be manifestations of bodhisattvas, identified themselves as Gautama Buddha or Maitreya Buddha, or been honored as buddhas or bodhisattvas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17257777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17257777", "title": "List of Buddhist temples in Busan", "text": "List of Buddhist temples in Busan\n\nThis is a list about Buddhist temples in Busan, South Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945101", "title": "List of Hindu festivals", "text": "List of Hindu festivals\n\nThere are a great number of Hindu religious festivals held throughout the world. The festivals typically celebrate events from Hindu mythology, often coinciding with seasonal changes. There are many festivals which are primarily celebrated by specific sects or in certain regions of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nThe festive season in India is the most widely celebrated and rejoiced by the people. Festivals not only have a historic significance to them, they are rooted in various cultural and linguistic norms associated with them. The festivities have their own spark, they bring together, or in other words, unite people of different religions and sects into a unified whole. With so many festivals always round the corner, there is a wave of liveliness and celebration in the society. Bringing people together is just one aspect of it, festivals hold with them the sacred cultural roots and traditions that is unique to every festival. The onset of the famous Diwali marks the beginning of lighting 'diyas', beautifying homes, offering gifts and visiting our near and dear ones. Similarly, the Holi festival is said to be the 'Festival of Colors\", with its magnificent rain dance and the 'gulaal', it surely colors the lives of people.\n\n'Utsava' is the Sanskrit word for Hindu festivals, meaning 'to cause to grow 'upward'. Uthsava or Utsava or Utsav is derived from the Sanskrit word, \"Utsava\". The Sanskrit word \"Utsava\" comes from the word \"ut\" meaning \"removal\" and \"sava\" which means \"worldly sorrows\" or \"grief\".\n\nIn the Hindu calendar dates are usually prescribed according to the lunar calendar. In Vedic timekeeping, a tithi is a lunar day.\n\n\n\"'Hindu festival related concepts\"\nOthers\n"}
{"id": "5967956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5967956", "title": "List of Seventh-day Adventists", "text": "List of Seventh-day Adventists\n\nThis is a list of people who are members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. This list also includes Millerites, former Seventh-day Adventists & people raised in the church.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section includes Millerites (followers of William Miller) who did not necessarily become Seventh-day Adventist:\nSee also \n\n\n\nFor former United States Adventist politicians see \"The Political Graveyard\" website.\n\n\nSee also .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24368542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24368542", "title": "List of churches in Taungoo", "text": "List of churches in Taungoo\n\nTaungoo is in the Bago region of Burma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2297612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2297612", "title": "List of war deities", "text": "List of war deities\n\nA war deity is a god or goddess in mythology associated with war, combat, or bloodshed. They occur commonly in both monotheistic and polytheistic religions.\n\nUnlike most gods and goddesses in polytheistic religions, monotheistic deities have traditionally been portrayed in their mythologies as commanding war in order to spread their religion. (The intimate connection between \"holy war\" and the \"one true god\" belief of monotheism has been noted by many scholars; including Jonathan Kirsch in his book \"God Against The Gods: The History of the War Between Monotheism and Polytheism\" and Joseph Campbell in \"The Masks of God, Vol. 3: Occidental Mythology\".) \n\nThe following is a partial list of war deities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5474824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5474824", "title": "Master general", "text": "Master general\n\nMaster general or Master-general can refer to:\n\nThe title was also sometimes used interchangeably with the other title of Grand Master, especially when referring to chivalric orders in the Middle Ages. In some chivalric orders, for example the Order of Saint Lazarus, this title was used by the Boigny Knights under the protection of the French monarchy so as to bypass a number of Papal Bulls which were intended to abolish the Order itself. Roman historians Ammianus and Zozimus record that the Master General Vietor led the center column of three columns of infantry to push the Roman march through the country and into battle.\n\nEven today, the Order of Saint Lazarus, albeit fragmented into a number of varying factions and obediences, one of the Lazarite Groupings headquartered in London with Grand Priories and Commanderies in various countries, is led by a Master-general Fra John Baron von Hoff GCLJ GCMLJ who was unanimously appointed to the title by the Knights in Council of the United Grand Priories.\n"}
{"id": "2530065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530065", "title": "Mind Game (film)", "text": "Mind Game (film)\n\nIt is unusual among features other than anthology films in using a series of disparate visual styles to tell one continuous story. As Yuasa commented in a \"Japan Times\" interview, \"Instead of telling it serious and straight, I went for a look that was a bit wild and patchy. I think that Japanese animation fans today don't necessarily demand something that's so polished. You can throw different styles at them and they can still usually enjoy it.\"\n\nThe film received a cult audience and was well received, winning multiple awards worldwide, and has been praised by directors Satoshi Kon and Bill Plympton. Allegedly, according to \"Tekkonkinkreet\" director Michael Arias, there was consideration for a release of the film on R1 DVD but it fell through. The film is now available to stream on Netflix in Australia as of 2016. GKIDS announced that they licensed the film, which will be streamed on VRV Select on December 29, 2017 followed by a limited theatrical run in February 2018 and a home video release in spring 2018.\n\nNishi is a 20-year-old loser with dreams of becoming a comic book artist. One late evening he runs into his childhood crush, Myon, on the subway. She tells Nishi she is due to marry. Nishi has flashbacks of exchanging love letters and messages with Myon and ends up declaring that he has always loved Myon (but in an insincere fashion), which Myon brushes off.\n\nThey go to her father's yakitori restaurant, and see Myon's father and her elder sister Yan (who runs the restaurant). Nishi also meets Myon's fiancee, Ryo. Two yakuza gangsters enter, Atsu and a senior yakuza whom Atsu calls Aniki (lit. brother. A term used by Yakuza to refer to each other). They are looking for Myon's father, who seduced and stole Atsu's girlfriend, and now hides cowering behind a corner. It is later revealed through flashbacks that the senior yakuza is actually the first boyfriend of the girls' mother, who was also seduced away by her husband during a disco in their youth.\n\nAs Atsu threatens Myon with a gun, Ryo steps in and tries to punch Atsu, but instead gets knocked out. Atsu then prepares to rape Myon, who calls out Nishi's name. Atsu turns on Nishi, who is rolled in a ball, terrified, placing his pistol against Nishi's anus. Atsu fires when Nishi finally musters the courage to yell, \"I will hurt you!\", thus killing him instantly. The senior Yakuza, offended by Atsu's lack of control, shoots him dead, and then nonchalantly orders dinner.\n\nMeanwhile, Nishi is in some sort of limbo where he encounters a being whose physical image changes every fraction of a second, Kami-sama (God). Kami-sama directs Nishi to walk into a red portal where he will disappear, but at the last moment Nishi runs for the opposite blue portal in order to return to life. Kami-sama becomes impressed by Nishi's sheer will to live, and so lets him escape.\n\nNishi returns to the moment just before Atsu pulled the trigger. This time, Nishi seizes Atsu's gun with his buttocks, and shoots him dead. He, Yan and Myon all pile into the yakuza's car, leaving the father and Ryo (still unconscious) behind. They speed off, followed by the massed yakuzas. The Yakuza boss rings (calls) Nishi using the yakuza's car phone and reveals that Atsu was a player on the Japanese national soccer team. Then after further chase the boss has his men force the trio in to a dead end on a bridge. However, Nishi steers the car off the bridge and they are swallowed up by an enormous whale.\nInside the whale, they meet an old man who was formerly yakuza and has been trapped in the whale for more than 30 years. (He is later shown through flashbacks to be the father of the senior Yakuza shown earlier). He shows them to the elaborate suspended house he has constructed over the 'sea' inside the whale's belly. Nishi attempts to escape the whale but he fails and they resign themselves to life inside the whale. Yan practices dancing and art, Myon practices swimming (a dream she gave up when her breasts got bigger), Nishi practices writing and drawing humorous manga and he and Myon finally become sexually intimate. \n\nThey attempt to leave the whale, again failing. And the old man reveals that the water level inside the whale is rising, and he believes the whale is probably dying. They concoct a plan to make a motor boat out using spare parts and fuel from the car they arrived in. On the day before the final match of the soccer World Cup, the whale returns to Osaka (their home town) and Yan, Nishi, Myon, as well as the Old Man, manage to escape. \n\nAs the four fly through the air, the film returns to its very first scene, with Myon running from the Yakuza, only this time she does not get her leg caught in the door of the train, and the Yakuza is left behind on the platform. This is followed by a lengthy montage, similar to that of the opening credits, showing the histories of the various characters. The movie ends ambiguously, with the phrase \"This Story Has Never Ended\" appearing before the credits roll.\n\nVoice cast\n\nOther crew\n\nProduction companies\n\nOther companies\n\nThe film's music, produced by Shinichiro Watanabe, as well as the score by Seiichi Yamamoto includes an image song by Fayray and piano performed by Yōko Kanno.\n\nThe film's accolades include the Ōfuji Noburō Award at the 2005 Mainichi Film Awards and the Animation Division Grand Prize at the Japan Media Arts Festival in 2004, outranking nominee \"Howl's Moving Castle\". Outside Japan, the film had its international premiere at the New York Asian Film Festival in June 2005. It had possibly its biggest success at the Fantasia Festival in Canada in July 2005, wherein it beat many live-action films to win all three of the festival's own jury awards it qualified for: Best Film, Best Director (tying with Gen Sekiguchi for \"Survive Style 5+\") and Best Script. It also received an additional Special Award for \"Visual Accomplishment\", as well as placing first (Golden Prize) in the audience award for best Best Animation Film and second (Silver Prize), behind \"Survive Style 5+\", for Most Groundbreaking Film. Despite these accolades, as of July 2011 the film's only home video release in a primarily English-speaking country is a region 4-locked, \"PAL\" DVD-Video released in Australia by Madman Entertainment in 2008 (catalogue MMA3985), though the Japanese (region 2, \"NTSC\") DVDs have English subtitles for the feature itself. On April Fool's Day in 2018, the movie aired on Toonami with Japanese audio and English subtitles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43133618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43133618", "title": "Naigamesha", "text": "Naigamesha\n\nNaigamesha (, ), also known as Harinegameshi, is a goat-headed or deer-headed deity, associated with children. He also appears in Jain as well as Hindu traditions, associated with the war-god Kartikeya and childbirth.\n\nNaigamesha is known by a variety of names: Negamesha, Nemesha, Naigameshin, Negamesi, Harinegameshi. The last is translated as \"Negamesi, the general of Hari (Indra)\". Another interpretation says that it is derived from \"harina\" (deer) and \"mesha\" (ram).\n\nNaigamesha is the benefactor and protector of children in Jainism. While the Greek satyr Pan is depicted with the lower body of a goat, Naigamesha has a goat head; in both cultures, the goat denotes fertility. He is worshipped to beget children.\n\nAccording to the \"Kalpa Sutra\", Naigamesha, on the orders of the king of the gods Indra, transferred the embryo of the Tirthankar Mahavira from the womb of the Brahmin (priest class) woman Devananda to the Kshatriya (ruling caste) Trishala, who finally delivers Mahavira. According to the Shvetambara text \"Neminanathacharita\", which recalls the life of the Tirthankar Neminatha, Krishna – a cousin of Neminatha and generally venerated as Hindu deity – worships Naigamesha to beget a son from his second wife Satyabhama; a son who equals his first-born Pradyumna, from his first wife Rukmini. Other texts portray Satyabhama praying to the deity.\n\nIn Hinduism, Naigamesha is associated with Kartikeya, the god of war. Naigamesha is an epithet and a form of Kartikeya, where he is generally depicted goat-headed. In other instances, Naigamesha is described as the son or brother of the war god. Hindu texts like the \"Brahmanas\", the \"Grihya sutras\" and medicinal texts mention a similar deity with a ram head. As a fearsome follower of Kartikeya, Naigamesha was feared and worshipped to ward off evil. later, he evolved into the patron of childbirth.\n\nDepictions of Naigamesha are rare and are generally confined to North India and the pre-third century era. They are many depictions of the deity found in the region around Mathura, dating from the 1st–3rd century. \nTerracotta figurines of Naigamesha from 2nd century BCE to 4th century CE are also been discovered.\n\nIn a 1st–3rd century depiction from Kankali Tila near Mathura (currently in Mathura Museum), Naigamesha is depicted with a goat's head and short, backward turning horns, a long beard (goatee) and \"drooping\" ears. Another sculpture from the 10th–13th century depicts him in the company of Hindu deities. The group of seven Hindu mother-goddesses, the Saptamatrika – who are associated with children – are surrounded by their usual companions Shiva and Ganesha as well as Naigamesha. The goat-features mirror the earlier depiction. In addition, Naigamesha is depicted with three children; one held in his left arm, another seated near his left foot and a third standing near the right leg, which conveys his association with children.\n\nBesides his goat-head, Naigamesha may also be shown having a deer head and may be depicted transferring the embryo of Mahavira in narrative panels. He is also depicted as seated on a throne, flanked by children on his lap or shoulders. Female attendants or a goat-headed woman sometimes accompany the god.\n"}
{"id": "43990512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43990512", "title": "Nanak Darbar Indian Sikh Temple", "text": "Nanak Darbar Indian Sikh Temple\n\nNanak Darbar Indian Sikh Temple, Iloilo is an Indian Sikh temple in Iloilo City, Philippines. It was part of creating a Guinness world record, for simultaneous candle lighting by 100,000 people for the world peace,\n\nIt is located close to the Old Iloilo Airport at 113 R. Mapa Street in the Mandurriao district of Iloilo City.\n\nThe temple serves the Indian community in Iloilo city. It also acts as a means of cultural integration by welcoming all and by providing free meals for all visitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132858", "title": "New Order Amish", "text": "New Order Amish\n\nThe New Order Amish are a subgroup of Amish which is close to the Old Order Amish. Some scholars see the group best characterized as a subgroup of Old Order Amish, despite the name. New Order Amish split away from the Old Order Amish in the 1960s for a variety of reasons, which included a desire for \"clean\" youth courting standards, meaning they do not condone the practice of bundling, or non-sexually lying in bed together, during courtship. Tobacco and alcohol are also not allowed. They also wished to incorporate more evangelical elements into the church, including Sunday school and mission work.\n\nThe New Order Amish emerged mainly in two regions: Lancaster County, Pennsylvania and Holmes/Wayne County, Ohio. Waldrep cites a New Order Amish man:\n\nEven though in Waldrep's opinion this seems \"like a simplistic reading\", he states that \"in the final analysis the characterization appears accurate\".\n\nIn 1966, around one hundred families split with the Old Order Amish in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, over differences related to the use of modern machinery. The collective Lancaster Amish ministry forbid the use of said machinery, but in many districts, the Amish had adapted to the technology. Because of this, the ministry had a difficult time enforcing this ruling. In 1964, the bishops banned four districts from communion for not implementing the larger group’s standards on technology. By February 6, 1966, thirty Amish families, under threat of excommunication, met at the home of Christian F. Flick. There, they organized a separate service where they received communion from a liberal Amish church in Newton, Ontario. In April 1966, sixty-five families had come to associate with Flick’s group. There were three defector districts in Lancaster County by fall of 1967. About one hundred families were split into three districts, one at Honey Brook and two at Gap.\n\nA separate movement developed in Ohio at around the same time. In the early 1960s, a conflict in the Troyer Valley district began the movement of the New Order Amish in Ohio. At the time, only ministers and older Amish members were allowed to greet each other with a kiss. This upset the younger church members, as they wished to practice the “holy kiss” also. A ministerial committee was unable to reach a resolution. In 1966, the Troyer Valley’s bishop requested that minister Levi R. Troyer stop using the kiss to greet the younger brethren. He refused and was sent back from communion. Much like the Lancaster group, the Troyers then went outside of their church and home to find a more suitable church. From 1969-1971, about a dozen Holmes County districts joined the Troyers, headed by Bishop Roy L. Schlabach, for similar reasons.\n\nHolmes County New Orders stood for \"a strong desire to keep the Amish way; to remain Amish, but to promote more spiritual awareness and eliminate questionable practices, such as bundling, tobacco, etc.\" \n\nLike Old Order groups, New Order Amish use horse and buggy, wear plain clothing, speak Pennsylvania German and practice home worship. As with other Amish, technological restrictions include prohibitions on the internet, television, and radio.\n\nAll New Order Amish districts still preserve the traditional Amish dress, although there is a trend towards slimmer brimmed hats and trimmed beards among the men. As for the New Order women, they typically have brighter colors all around. Pennsylvania German is mostly preserved, but there is a tendency to shift to the English language.\n\nNew Order Amish may be more lenient in the practice of shunning and may be more permissive of photography than lower-order groups. They were also known for introducing brighter colored fabrics. New Order Amish prohibit alcohol and tobacco use (seen in some Old Order groups), an important factor in the original division.\n\nDifferent from the Old Order, the New Order actively suppress the use of tobacco and alcohol and do not allow bed courtship (bundling), which was an important factor in the original division. They did eventually allow milkers, balers, propane gas and pneumatic tires. The Lancaster County New Order Amish was different, however, they eventually did permit electricity, what led to the split into two New Order Amish groups, electric and non-electric. The Holmes County New Orders allowed men to trim their beards as well as the hair above their ears. Some New Order Amish permit telephone lines in the home.\n\nThe New Order worship patterns are essentially the same as among the Old Order.\n\nThe New Order Tobe share an unusual mix of progressive and conservative traits. They are progressive in technology but conservative in spirituality and dress. In contrast to other New Order Amish groups, they have a relatively high retention rate of their young people that is comparable to the retention rate of the Old Order Amish.\n\nThere are four different affiliations which are referred to as being \"New Order\": \n\nEspecially in Lancaster County, there is a strong trend among the New Orders to join more progressive churches. In 1994 there were two New Order districts in Lancaster County with about 60 households, by 2004 there was only a single district with 21 households and almost no young people.\n\nCounting all New Order Amish groups there were 3,961 baptized members in 70 congregations with a total population of about 8,912 people in the year 2000.\n\nIn 2008/9 there were about 3,500 baptized members in 58 New Order Amish congregations, while at the same time the New Order Amish Fellowship had 400 baptized members in 7 congregations.\n\nIn 2011 there were 35 non-electric New Order districts and 17 electric ones, whereas Tobe New Order had 5 and the New Order Fellowship 4 church districts. Statistics show that New Order Amish tend to keep a lower percentage of their children in the faith, according to the group about 50 to 65 percent, while Old Orders keep 80 to 95 percent. An exception is the New Order Tobe Amish with a defection rate of only 19.6 percent.\n\nNew Order Amish communities can be found in around a dozen states including Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Indiana, Wisconsin, Michigan, Missouri, New York, Kentucky, Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, and some others. Their largest population is in the Holmes County, Ohio, settlement.\n\nThere are groups of Amish, considered being \"Old Order\", that allow more technologies than some groups of New Order Amish. According to G.C. Waldrep the Michigan-related Amish churches show many spiritual and material similarities to the New Orders, while they are still technically considered a part of the larger Old Order group. The Groffdale Conference Mennonite Church, the largest Old Order Mennonite group, allows about the same level of technology as New Order Amish groups, while there are technologically very conservative Old Order Mennonite groups, like the Noah Hoover Mennonites, that are as restrictive concerning technologies as the Swartzentruber Amish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "468620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=468620", "title": "Ordinary Time", "text": "Ordinary Time\n\nOrdinary Time comprises two periods of time in the Christian liturgical year that are found in the calendar of the ordinary form of the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, as well as some other churches of Western Christianity, including those that use the Revised Common Lectionary: the Anglican Communion, Methodist churches, Lutheran churches, Old Catholic churches and Reformed churches. In Latin, the name of this time is tempus per annum translated as \"time during the year\". \n\nOrdinary Time comprises two periods: the first period begins on Epiphany Day (in the Anglican Communion and Methodist churches) or the day after the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord (in the Catholic Church) and ends on the day before Ash Wednesday; the second period begins on the Monday after Pentecost, the conclusion of the Easter season, and continues until the Saturday before the First Sunday of Advent. In some traditions, the first period is celebrated as Epiphanytide, and the latter of these periods is observed as Trinitytide. Both of these periods of time, combined, are the longest time in the liturgical year.\n\nThe weeks of Ordinary Time are numbered. Several Sundays bear the name of feasts or solemnities celebrated on those days, including Trinity Sunday and the Feast of Christ the King.\n\nThe liturgical color normally assigned to Ordinary Time is green.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, Ordinary Time begins on the day after the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord. The church normally celebrates this feast on the Sunday after the Solemnity of the Epiphany of the Lord (6 January). However, some dioceses, including those in the United States, always celebrate Epiphany on the Sunday after the Solemnity of Mary, Mother of God (1 January); in years when this Sunday celebration of the Epiphany of the Lord falls on January 7 or 8, the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord is moved to the following day, the second Monday of the year.\n\nTherefore, Ordinary Time starts on the second Monday or Tuesday of the year (January 9 or 10) in those years and dioceses. The Christmas season includes the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord, so Ordinary Time begins the next day, Monday or Tuesday, not on Sunday. However, the Sunday after the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord is always counted as the \"Second Sunday of Ordinary Time\".\n\nOrdinary Time continues through the day before Ash Wednesday, which falls between 4 February and 10 March (inclusive), and marks the beginning of the Season of Lent. Thus, for Roman Catholics, the period of Ordinary Time between Christmas and Lent may end amid the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, or ninth week of Ordinary Time. Ash Wednesday is a moveable feast which occurs on the 40th day (excluding Sundays) before the Solemnity of the Resurrection of the Lord (Easter Sunday).\n\nOrdinary Time resumes on the Monday following Solemnity of Pentecost, which is the Sunday between 10 May and 13 June that marks the 50th day of Easter. Ordinary Time concludes with the Saturday afternoon before the first Sunday of Advent (27 November to 3 December). Ordinary Time thus always includes the entire months of July, August, September and October and most or all of June and November. In some years, Ordinary Time includes a portion of May, or a day or two in early December, or both. The Catholic Church substitutes the Solemnity of Our Lord Jesus Christ the King of the Universe in the place of the 34th Sunday in Ordinary Time, the last Sunday of the season.\n\nThe actual number of complete or partial weeks of Ordinary Time in any given year can total 33 or 34. In most years, Ordinary Time comprises only 33 weeks, so the Church omits one week that otherwise would precede the resumption of Ordinary Time following Pentecost Sunday. For example, in 2011, the Sunday before Ash Wednesday was the Ninth Sunday in Ordinary Time, but the day after Pentecost Sunday began the 11th Week in Ordinary Time.\n\nIn the Church of England, a similar situation arises with \"Sundays after Trinity\", as Sundays in the second period of Ordinary Time are termed (until the final four, which are termed \"Sundays before Advent\"). The total number of Sundays varies according to the date of Easter and can range anything from 18 to 23. When there are 23, the Collect and Post-Communion for the 22nd Sunday are taken from the provision for the Third Sunday before Lent.\n\nIn the Episcopal Church (United States), it is normal to refer to Sundays after Epiphany and Sundays after Pentecost. The use of Ordinary Time is not common.\n\nIn the Orthodox Church and the Eastern Catholic churches, Sundays are all numbered after Pentecost which runs through the following year. The Orthodox do not distinguish Ordinary Time.\n\nIn addition, certain solemnities and feasts that fall on Sundays during Ordinary Time preempt the observance of an ordinarily numbered Sunday. On preempted Sundays, the liturgical color of the feast or solemnity replaces the liturgical color green. These feast days include, in the Roman Catholic calendar, any holy day of obligation, any other solemnity, any feast of the Lord, and the Commemoration of All Faithful Departed Souls.\n\nOn the universal calendar, these include: \n\nThe following observances always preempt a Sunday in Ordinary Time: \n\nOther solemnities which outrank Sundays of Ordinary Time vary from parish to parish and diocese to diocese; they may include the feast of the patron saint of a parish and the feast of the dedication of the parish church.\n\nIn addition, if a solemnity or feast that outranks a Sunday of Ordinary Time, such as those mentioned above, should occur during the week, a priest celebrating Mass with a congregation may observe the solemnity on a nearby Sunday. Such a celebration is traditionally called an \"external solemnity,\" even if the feast in question is not ranked as a solemnity. If an external solemnity is celebrated on a Sunday, the color of that celebration is used rather than green.\n\nIn the extraordinary form there are two distinct seasons in the Roman Breviary and Roman Missal, known as the time after Epiphany and the time after Pentecost, which together correspond to Ordinary Time in the ordinary form. Sundays in these seasons are referred to as the \"n\"th Sunday after Epiphany or Pentecost, as appropriate, and weekdays are identified in reference to the Sunday they follow.\n\nWith the reforms of 1970 came the introduction of four liturgical weeks (the 6th through 9th weeks of Ordinary Time) which could fall either after Epiphany or after Pentecost, making the old numbering scheme unusable, and the term \"tempus per annum\" was used to describe both of these seasons. Before the reforms until the present, the term \"tempus per annum\" has been used to describe the season of the Little Office of the Blessed Virgin Mary that is not part of Advent or Christmastide, and so \"tempus per annum\" extends from Matins on 3 February through None on the last Saturday before Advent.\n\nFollowing the lead of the liturgical reforms of the Roman Rite, many Protestant churches also adopted the concept of Ordinary Time alongside the Revised Common Lectionary.\n\nSome Protestant denominations set off a time at the end of Ordinary Time known as Kingdomtide or Season of End Times. This period can range from anywhere from only the three Sundays prior to Christ the King (as in the Wisconsin Synod Lutheran) to 13 or 14 weeks (most notably in the United Methodist Church). The Church of England observes this time All Saints and Advent Sunday.\n\n"}
{"id": "348378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348378", "title": "Penn Jillette", "text": "Penn Jillette\n\nPenn Fraser Jillette (born March 5, 1955) is an American magician, comedian, musician, actor, inventor, filmmaker, television personality, and best-selling author known for his work with fellow magician Teller as half of the team Penn & Teller. The duo have been featured in numerous stage and television shows such as \"\", and \"\", and are currently headlining in Las Vegas at The Rio. Jillette serves as the act's orator and raconteur.\n\nHe has published eight books, including the \"New York Times\" Bestseller, \"God, No!: Signs You May Already Be an Atheist and Other Magical Tales\". He is also known for his advocacy of atheism, scientific skepticism, the First Amendment, libertarianism, and free-market capitalism.\n\nJillette was born in Greenfield, Massachusetts. His mother, Valda Rudolph Jillette (née Parks; 1909–2000), was a secretary, and his father, Samuel Herbert Jillette (1912–1999), worked at Greenfield's Franklin County Jail. Jillette became an atheist in his early teens after reading the Bible. He was subsequently asked to leave the church, after asking questions in a youth group that also made skeptics of his peers. Jillette became disenchanted with traditional illusionist acts that presented the craft as authentic magic, such as The Amazing Kreskin on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\". At age eighteen, he saw a show by illusionist James Randi, and became enamored of his approach to magic that openly acknowledged deception as entertainment rather than a mysterious supernatural power. Jillette regularly acknowledges Randi as the one person on the planet he loves the most besides members of his family.\n\nJillette worked with high school classmate Michael Moschen in developing and performing a juggling act during the years immediately following their 1973 graduation. In 1974, Jillette graduated from Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Clown College. That same year, he was introduced to Teller by Weir Chrisemer, a mutual friend. The three then formed a three-person act called Asparagus Valley Cultural Society which played in Amherst and San Francisco. In 1981, he and Teller teamed up as Penn & Teller, and went on to do a successful Off Broadway and later Broadway theatre show called \"Penn & Teller\" that toured nationally.\n\nWhile the off-Broadway hit was running, in 1988 Jillette was in a speed mariachi power trio called Bongos, Bass and Bob. He played bass; bongos were by Dean J. Seal; and guitar was by Rob \"Bob\" Elk (Running Elk). The latter two became the a capella comedy duo Mr. Elk and Mr. Seal after the band broke up due to Jillette's movie commitments. They recorded an album with Kramer at Noise New York called \"Never Mind the Sex Pistols, Here's Bongos Bass and Bob (What on Earth Were They Thinking?).\" It was released to almost no notice outside of a mention in \"Spin Magazine\", but was immortalized with a claymation video of the single, \"Oral Hygiene\".\n\nJillette was a contributor to the now-defunct \"PC/Computing\" magazine, having a regular back-section column between 1990 and 1994.\n\nJillette was the primary voice announcer for the U.S.-based cable network Comedy Central in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1994, Jillette purchased a house in the Las Vegas Valley and dubbed it \"The Slammer\".\nIt has been featured in dozens of television shows and articles and was designed by his friend Colin Summers. He formerly recorded music there, and conducted his radio show at the studio inside \"The Slammer\". In 2016, he sold \"The Slammer\" so that his family could move to a less remote location.\n\nStarting in 1996, Jillette had a recurring role on \"Sabrina the Teenage Witch\" as Drell, the head of the Witches' Council. He and Teller both appeared in the pilot with Debbie Harry as the third member of the Council. The show was created by Jillette's friend Nell Scovell.\n\nPenn and Teller appear as comedians Rebo and Zooty in the 5th-season episode of \"Babylon 5\", \"The Day of the Dead\", written by Neil Gaiman.\n\nFor a brief time in 1997, Jillette wrote bi-weekly dispatches for the search engine Excite.com. Each column ended with a pithy comment identifying which of the Penn & Teller duo he was. (For example: \"Penn Jillette is the half of Penn & Teller that's detained at airports.\") Jillette made a habit of linking many words in his online column to wacky sites that generally had nothing to do with the actual words. The columns are no longer available on the current Excite.com site, but have been republished with permission at PennAndTeller.com.\n\nStarting in 2003, Jillette, along with Teller, began producing and hosting the show \"\" on Showtime. In the show, the two analyze cultural phenomena, debunk myths, criticize people and aspects of society they deem \"bullshit\".\n\nIn 2005 with actor Paul Provenza, Jillette co-produced and co-directed \"The Aristocrats\", a documentary film tracing the life of an obscene joke known as \"The Aristocrats\". It principally consists of a variety of comedians telling their own versions of the joke.\n\nFrom January 3, 2006, to March 2, 2007, Jillette hosted, along with fellow atheist, skeptic, and juggler Michael Goudeau, a live, hour-long radio talk show broadcast on Free FM. The show, \"Penn Radio\", broadcast from his Vintage Nudes Studio in his Las Vegas home. The most notable recurring segment of the show was \"Monkey Tuesday\" and later \"The Pull of the Weasel\". On March 2, 2007, Jillette announced that he would no longer be doing his radio show. He stated that he is a \"show biz wimp\" and decided to stop doing the show so he could spend more time with his children.\n\nDuring the 2006–07 television season, Jillette hosted the prime-time game show \"Identity\" on NBC-TV.\n\nIn 2008, Jillette was a contestant on \"Dancing with the Stars\", paired with professional dancer Kym Johnson. He was the first celebrity to be eliminated. A reference to his large feet as a sign of another large body part was bleeped in the West Coast airing.\n\nDuring 2010–2011, Jillette did a bi-weekly show on Revision3 called \"Penn Point\".\n\nOn August 16, 2011, Jillette's book \"God, No! Signs You May Already Be An Atheist and Other Magical Tales\" was released and made the New York Times Best Sellers shortly after, in the week of August 28, in the 14th position.\n\nAn avid upright bassist, Jillette frequently accompanies jazz pianist Mike Jones, who opens for the magician's Las Vegas show. On March 16, 2018, Jones released a live jazz album with Jillette entitled \"The Show Before the Show\" which consisted of ten tracks played by the duo at the Rio Las Vegas. Jillette additionally performed at the famed Green Mill Cocktail Lounge to coincide with the album's debut.\n\nJillette was one of the contestants on \"The Celebrity Apprentice\" season 5, beginning on February 19, 2012. He was fired from the show by Donald Trump during the Week 11 episode. Also on February 19, 2012, along with Michael Goudeau, he started the podcast \"Penn's Sunday School\".\n\nIn 2013, he returned for the All-Star Celebrity Apprentice season, where he successfully made his way to the finale, raising $663,655 for the charity of his choice, Opportunity Village. On April 5, 2013, Penn and Teller were honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in the live performance category. Their star, the 2,494th awarded, is near the star dedicated to Harry Houdini. The following day they were recognized by the Magic Castle with the \"Magicians of the Year\" award.\n\nPenn credits magician and skeptical activist James Randi for his career. During an interview at TAM! 2012, Penn stated that \"If not for Randi there would not be Penn & Teller as we are today.\" He went on to say that \"Outside of my family... no one is more important in my life. Randi is everything to me.\"\n\nIn July 1999, Jillette was granted for the \"Jill-Jet\", a hot-tub jet specially angled for allowing a woman to masturbate against the water stream. He has credited Debbie Harry of Blondie for suggesting the idea, as the two of them were once in a hot tub and Harry made a remark about changing the jets for a woman's pleasure. Jillette liked the idea enough to pursue a patent application at the USPTO under the patent title \"Hydro-therapeutic Stimulator\".\n\nThe abstract of the patent explains that a \"discharge nozzle is located within the tub and connected to the outlet, mounted to the seat so that the discharged water from the circulation pump automatically aligns with and is directed to stimulation points (e.g., the clitoris) of the female user when the female user sits in the seat.\" An article in the June 2006 issue of \"Playboy\" shed additional light on the invention. Originally, it was to be called the \"ClitJet\"; however, he stated that \"Jill-Jet\" was more suitable because it included his name in the title.\n\nOn the \"Penn Radio\" show, telling the listeners about the photo shoot for the \"Playboy\" article, Jillette mentioned that he has a Jill-Jet installed in a tub in his house, and that several of his female friends and friends' female spouses enjoy it a lot, but he is not aware of any other installations of a water jet in such a configuration anywhere else.\n\nJillette created a private recording studio in his Las Vegas home. The addition, designed by \"Outside The Lines Studio\" and built by Crisci Custom Builders between October 2003 and June 2004 as part of his Las Vegas home, was named Vintage Nudes Studios by Jillette for playing cards that he had collected. The cards are displayed in the interior design in a manner which is meaningful to magicians. The studio was home to Free FM's \"Penn Radio\" show, and was the home of the Penn's Sunday School stream and podcast until it was demolished in 2016, along with his former home, \"The Slammer\".\n\nJillette says that he has an addictive personality and claims to have never had \"so much as a puff of marijuana or a drop of alcohol\" because he does not trust himself to do it in moderation. He is an advocate of the legalization of all drugs and discontinuing the War on Drugs.\n\nJillette is an atheist, libertarian (he has stated that he may consider himself to be an anarcho-capitalist), and skeptic, as well as an adherent to Ayn Rand's Objectivist philosophy, as stated on his \"Penn Says\" podcast. Jillette is a fellow at the libertarian think tank the Cato Institute and has stated that he \"always\" votes Libertarian. In January 2007, Jillette took the \"Blasphemy Challenge\" offered by the Rational Response Squad and publicly denied the existence of a holy spirit.\nHis cars' license plates read \"atheist\", \"nogod\", and \"godless\". \"Strangely enough, they wouldn't give me 'Infidel,'\" he says.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1989, Jillette provided financial support to David and Jad Fair of the art rock band Half Japanese for their record label 50 Skidillion Watts. This allowed the band to release the albums \"Music to Strip By\", \"The Band that Would be King\" and \"Charmed Life\". When asked about his assistance Jillette said, \"anybody who listens to Half Jap becomes a fan.\" \n\nIn 2005, he wrote and read an essay for National Public Radio claiming that he was \"beyond atheism. Atheism is not believing in God... I believe there is no God.\" His atheism, he has explained, has informed every aspect of his life and thoughts, and as such is as crucial to him as theistic beliefs are to the devout. Jillette encourages open discussion, debate, and proselytizing on the issue of God's existence, believing that the issue is too important for opinions about it to remain private. Jillette does not dismiss all who do believe in God: a 2008 edition of his \"Penn Says\" podcast expresses his appreciation for a fan who brought him the gift of a pocket Gideon Bible after a performance because he realized that this individual sincerely cared enough about him to try to help him.\nJillette stated that there is not enough information to make an informed decision on global warming, that his gut told him it was not real, but his mind said that he can't prove it. He has since changed his position and now believes that climate change is occurring.\n\nHe endorsed Gary Johnson for US President in 2012 and 2016.\n\nJillette is a collector and connoisseur of song poems.\n\nIn December 2014, Jillette's blood pressure landed him in the hospital. By his birthday, March 5, 2015, he had lost . He follows Dr. Joel Fuhrman's Nutritarian diet, which means that he eats little or no animal products, no processed grains, and no added sugar or salt. Penn is featured in \"Eating You Alive\", a 2016 American documentary about food and health.\n\nJillette is married to Emily Jillette, and they have two children, Zolten and Moxie CrimeFighter.\n\nSpeculation arises from Jillette's red fingernail on his left hand. From the FAQ from Penn & Teller's official website, there are three common answers:\n\n\nIn direct response to questions about his red fingernail, Penn has stated \"People are asking about my fingernail. Wear my Dad's ring and my Mom's nail polish. Just for remembrance and respect.\" The color he uses is Jelly Apple Red (#054) by Essie. On the podcast \"Skepticality\" in 2012, Jillette said that he was considering changing the meaning of the red nail polish, telling his daughter it is for her. During his appearance on the \"Chopped\" Tournament of Stars (2014), he effectively told the story of his mother suggesting he get a manicure for the reasons stated above, and said that he kept it in respect for her.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3326960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3326960", "title": "Polity of the Seventh-day Adventist Church", "text": "Polity of the Seventh-day Adventist Church\n\nThe governance (polity) of the Seventh-day Adventist Church is based on democratic representation, and therefore resembles the Presbyterian system of church organization. \n\nPower and decision making comes ultimately from church members in local congregations. Local churches select delegates to meetings of the local conference/mission. Meetings of local conferences/missions select delegates that govern Unions and Unions send delegates to General Conference meetings. \n\nThe organizational structure of the church consists of the following levels:\n\n\nEach level of organization holds a \"general session\" at certain intervals, when elected representatives gather to vote on general decisions and church business. The president of the General Conference, for instance, is elected at the General Conference Session every five years. \n\nEvery inhabited location on earth is within the designated territory of a Union, even if there are no members in that territory. Unions and local Conferences/Missions are created, and occasionally consolidated, based on membership trends and other factors. \n\nAt the local churches, decisions are made by elected committees through vote of members. The day-to-day running of churches is governed by a church board formed by members of that church, together with the pastor of that congregation.\n\nIn contrast to congregational polity, the conference corporation owns church property, employs and pays ministers, and receives tithes from members. In contrast to episcopal polity, the ministers or pastors are a single level of ordained clergy and there are no bishops; elders and deacons are lay ministries. Moreover, it incorporates a hierarchical polity.\n\nA 2002 survey of Adventists worldwide showed three quarters \"affirm the structure, polity, and financial policies of the church.\"\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist global church is headquartered in Silver Spring, Maryland adjacent to Washington, DC. General Conference Division offices are located in various locations worldwide, usually within the territory served. The Inter-American Division is an exception which for logistical convenience is based in Miami, Florida to serve territory from Mexico through the Northern portion of South America. \n\nA President, General Conference Secretary, General Conference Treasurer, Division Presidents and other officers are elected at the General Conference Session every 5 years. The GC President presides over the Executive Committee.\n\nEach organizational unit elects a President, Secretary (sometimes styled VP Administration), Treasurer and other officers. \n\nVarious church offices are elected by the church body as specified by the Church Manual. Positions must be filled by baptised members who attend regularly. Local church office terms run either 12 or 24 months. Offices are never elected permanently, although persons may be reelected indefinitely. \n\nThe most prominent church office is that of the pastor or minister. Adventists believe that pastors are divinely called to ministry and they are ordained by the church for their ministry. The position of church pastor is not elected by the local church, but rather appointed by a local conference. When the minister transfers to the local church for pastoralship he also transfers his membership to that local congregation. Adventist believe in clerical marriage and not a celibate priesthood. The pastor works with the head elder of the church and is responsible for guiding the church's spiritual direction, chairing the church board and leading out in services.\n\nWorking with the pastor in the local church is the elder who is elected by the local church and ordained by the local pastor. The elder is seen as a religious leader in the local church and is able to conduct ordinances. The elder, or elders in most cases (who are led by a \"head elder\"), is largely responsible for the running of the church and the distribution of responsibility in the church. In the Adventist Church \"elder\" is not a title. It's a function. The term \"pastor\" is a function and often used as a title. The \"local elder's position authority is limited to the local church she/he is serving. The \"pastor's\" authority is universal. The local elder gets her/his authority from the pastor she/he is serving under or otherwise from the field administration. The pastor's authority is inherent in the pastor's position.\n\nThe deacon, like the elder, is an elected and ordained role. The deacon's primary roles are the assistance in running of services, the visitation of members, the care of the sick, and the maintenance of church property.\n\nThe deaconess holds a similar position to a deacon. Earlier no provision was given for their induction, but the 2010 General Conference Session held in Atlanta, United States, decided for the ordination of deaconesses as is the case of deacons, a polity change. The duties of a deaconess are very similar to the deacon, with particular emphasis placed on assistance in running certain services, and care of the sick and others in need.\n\nThe clerk is an elected position, and is responsible for the keeping of church records. The clerk facilitates the addition and removal of members from church records at the request of the church and helps with the generation of church reports to be presented to the conference.\n\nThe treasurer is an elected position responsible for the keeping of church funds. The treasurer is responsible for keeping accounts and the safeguarding of the money.\n\nGeorge Knight has argued for some structural change. Raymond Cottrell has argued for an independent North American Division.\n\nAn estimated 75% of Adventists support items relating to the \"cohesiveness of organization\" of the church, according to a 2002 worldwide survey of local church leaders. This statistic is composed of the following four individual items:\n\n\nWilliam G. Johnsson forecasted a decreased role of structures and formal leaders in favor of initiatives by ordinary church members. He also argued that maintaining certain church institutions (like schools, hospitals, publishing houses, and health food factories) may in some cases not be worth the resources spent.\n\n\nSee also:\n\n"}
{"id": "4524219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4524219", "title": "Pundalik", "text": "Pundalik\n\nPundalik () or Pundarik is a central figure in the legends of the Hindu God Vithoba, generally considered a Vaishnava deity identified with the deities Vishnu and Krishna. He is credited to have brought Vithoba to Pandharpur, where Vithoba's central shrine stands today. Pundalik is also perceived to be the historical founder of the Varkari sect, which is centered on the worship of Lord Vithoba.\n\nPundalik was one of the earliest Kundalini Yoga practitioners. As He was the master of Kundalini Yoga, people used to call him \"Kundalik\". \nLater, after several years, Kundalik become Pundalik. He symbolised Kundalini energy in the form of Lord Vitthal also knows as Lord Pandurang after his name Pundalik. \nPandharpur's Vitthal was an incarnation of Lord Vishnu or Lord Krishna. According to legends it also depicts the symbol of the Kundalini Energy, although spiritually, the same energy dwells in all.\n\nThe brick on which Lord Vitthal is standing is the basic chakra of Kundalini energy known as Muladhara Chakra. Both hands, like bows, represents Ida and Pingla nadis which cross over at the central body of Sushumna or Brahma nadi. Body represents purusha means Vishnu or Krishna and the tilaka or the mark on the head represents Ajna Chakra or guru chakra or third-eye chakra is the subtle center of energy, believed to be located between the eyebrows, located behind it along the subtle (non-physical) spinal column, as said by Lord Krishna in Bhagavad Gita.\n\nMany Kings and other noblemen were devotees of Pundalik and they built the famous Vitthal temple at Pandharpur. The age old practice of the Kundalini Yoga converted the shrine into a holy place and truth seekers from all over the world were directed here by the divine to activate and raise their Kundalini energy by the very natural process of Bhakti, the highest form of Love anyone can express.\n\nPundalik is commonly perceived to be a historical figure, connected with the establishment and propagation of the Vithoba-centric Varkari sect. Ramakrishna Gopal Bhandarkar considers Pundalik to be the founder of the Varkari cult and the one who promulgated the cult in Maratha country. Stevenson (1843) goes further, suggesting he might have been a Jain or a Buddhist, since Varkari tradition is a combination of Jain and Buddhist morals, and Vithoba is viewed as Vishnu in his form as Buddha. Frazer, Edwards and P.R. Bhandarkar (1922) all suggest that Pundalik tried to unify Shiva and Vishnu, and that this culture originated in Karnataka. Ranade (1933) thinks that Pundalik, a Kannada saint, was not only the founder of the Varkari culture but also the first great devotee or first high priest of the Pandharpur temple. Upadhyaya supports the priest theory but declines the Kannada origin theory. Tulpule also accepted the theory that Pundalik was the historical founder of the Varkari sect, though declines to fix a date for him due to \"lack of authentic evidence\". According to M. S. Mate, Pundalik was instrumental in coaxing the Hoysala king Vishnuvardhana to build the Pandharpur temple to Vishnu, placing him in the early 12th century. Deleury (1960) believes Pundalik was a mystic, influenced by the Vaishnava Haridasa sect of Karnataka, who brought a drastic change in the worship of Vithoba. Pundalik not only founded the Varkari sect, but also was the first to identify Vithoba with the god Vishnu. Pundalik's fame also led to naming of Pandharpur to \"Paundrika-kshetra\" - the sacred place of Pundalik.\n\nOther scholars like Raeside (1965), Dhanpalvar (1972), and Vaudeville (1974) have questioned the historicity of Pundalik altogether, and dismissed him as a mythical figure. In his analysis of the text \"Panduranga mahatmya\" by Sridhar (discussed in \"Legend\" section ahead), Raeside says that the legend of devotee Pundalik could have been nothing more a derivative of Puranic legend. Dhanpalvar strongly agreed with this possibility. Vaudeville found the legend of the Pundalik of Pandharpur was very similar to the legend of Pundarik, the devotee of Vishnu, in the Hindu epic Mahabharata. The religious historian R.C. Dhere, winner of the Sahitya Akademi Award for his book \"Sri Vitthal: Ek Mahasamanvaya\", opines that identification of Vithoba with Vishnu led to conversion of the Shaiva (related to god Shiva) Pundarika shrine to the Vaishnava shrine of the devotee Pundalik. The main argument of the hypothesis is that the memorial shrine of Pundalik is a Shaiva shrine, rather than a Vaishnava one, compromising of a Shiva-linga, the symbol of god Shiva.\n\nTexts, that narrate the legend of Pundalik and Vithoba, can be categorised into the Varkari tradition, the Brahmin tradition and what Raeside calls a \"third tradition\", that includes both Varkari and Brahmin elements. The Varkari texts are written in Marathi, the Brahmin texts in Sanskrit, and the \"third tradition\" are Marathi texts written by Brahmins.\n\nThe Varkari texts are: \"Bhaktalilamrita\" and \"Bhaktavijaya\" by Mahipati, \"Pundalika-Mahatmya\" by Bahinabai, and a long \"abhanga\" by Namdev. All these texts describe the legend of Pundalik. The Brahmin texts include: two versions of \"Panduranga-Mahatmya\" from the Skanda Purana (consisting of 900 verses); \"Panduranga-Mahatmya\" from the Padma Purana (consisting of 1,200 verses); \"Bhima-Mahatmya\", also from the Padma Purana; and a third devotional work, yet again called \"Panduranga-Mahatmya\", which is found in the Vishnu Purana. The \"third tradition\" is found in two works: \"Panduranga-Mahatmya\" by the Brahmin Sridhara (consisting of 750 verses), and another work of the same name written by Prahlada Maharaj (consisting of 181 verses).\n\nThere are three versions of the Pundalik legend, two of which are attested as textual variants of the Skanda Purana (1.34–67). According to the first, the ascetic Pundarika (Pundalik) is described as a devotee of god Vishnu and dedicated to the service of his parents. The god Gopala-Krishna, a form of Vishnu, comes from Govardhana as a cowherd, accompanied by his grazing cows, to meet Pundarika. Krishna is described as in \"digambar\" form, wearing \"makara-kundala\", the \"srivatsa\" mark, a head-dress of peacock feathers, resting his hands on his hips and keeping his cow-stick between his thighs. Pundarika asks Krishna to remain in this form on the banks of the river Bhima. He believes that Krishna's presence will make the site a \"tirtha\" (a holy place near a water body) and a \"kshetra\" (a holy place near a temple). The location is identified with modern-day Pandharpur, which is situated on the banks of the Bhima. The description of Krishna resembles the characteristics of the Pandharpur image of Vithoba.\n\nThe second version of the legend depicts Vithoba appearing before Pundalik as the five-year-old Bala Krishna (infant Krishna). This version is found in manuscripts of both Puranas, Prahlada Maharaj, and the poet-saints, notably Tukaram. The remaining version of the Pundalik legend appears in Sridhara and as a variant in the Padma Purana. Pundalik, a Brahmin madly in love with his wife, neglected his aged parents as a result. Later, on meeting sage Kukkuta, Pundalik underwent a transformation and devoted his life to the service of his aged parents. Meanwhile, one day, Krishna comes to the forest Dandivana, near Pundalik's house, in search of his angry wife Rukmini, who has left him. After some coaxing, Rukmini was pacified. Then Krishna visited Pundalik and found Pundalik serving his parents. Pundalik threw a brick outside for Krishna to stand on. Krishna stood on the brick and waited for Pundalik. After completing his services, Pundalik asked that his Lord, in the Vithoba form - waiting arms-akimbo on the brick, remain on the brick with Rukmini, in Rakhumai form, and bless his devotees forever.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1727767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1727767", "title": "Religion in Norway", "text": "Religion in Norway\n\nReligion in Norway is mostly Lutheran Christianity, with 71.5% of the population belonging to the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Norway in 2016. The Catholic Church is the next largest Christian church at 2.9%. The unaffiliated make up 16.8% of the population. Islam is followed by 2.9% of the population.\n\nA bill passed in 2016 and effective as of 1 January 2017 created the Church of Norway as an independent legal entity. Until the 2012 constitutional amendment the Evangelical-Lutheran religion was the public religion of the State. The Church of Norway will still obtain financial support from the state of Norway, along with other religious communities.\n\nEarly Norwegians, like all of the people of Scandinavia, were adherents of Norse paganism; the Sámi having a shamanistic religion. Norway was gradually Christianized by Christian missionaries between 1000 and 1150. Before the Protestant Reformation in 1536/1537, Norwegians were part of the Catholic Church. \n\nAccording to the Eurobarometer Poll of 2010:-\n\n\nAccording to 2016 data from annual social-cultural study Norwegian Monitor (Norsk Monitor), 39 percent of Norwegians responded with \"No\" to the question to the question “Do you believe in God?”, while 37 percent said \"Yes\" and 27 percent said that they did not know. The survey also showed that women are more likely to believe in God than men and that faith in God is stronger among the old than the young. \n\nNorse religion developed from the common mythology of the Germanic people. Scandinavian mythology and the relative importance of gods and heroes developed slowly. Thus, the cult of Odin in Norway probably spread from Western Germany not long before they were written down. Gods shown as minor gods such as Ullr, the fertility god Njord and Heimdall are likely to be older gods in Norway who lost popularity. Other gods (or aesir, as they were called) worth mentioning are the thunder-god Thor and the love-goddess Freya.\n\nMost information about Scandinavian mythology is contained in the old Norse literature including Norwegian literature, the Eddas and later sagas. Other information comes from the Danish historian Saxo Grammaticus with fragments of legends preserved in old inscriptions. Unfortunately, we know relatively little about old religious practices in Norway or elsewhere as most of the knowledge was lost in the gradual Christianisation.\n\nDue to nationalistic movements in the late 18th century, Norwegian scholars found renewed interest for Norse religion, translating many of the myths to Danish (the written language in Norway at the time) and tried to use it to create a common Norwegian culture. But Christianity was too deeply rooted in the society to accept such Paganism, and it only resulted in popularized legends. Nowadays, a revival of the Old Norse religion, called Åsatru (\"Faith of the Aesir\") seeks to reconstruct the pre-Christian faith practiced in the Viking Age.\n\nThe Sámi followed a shamanistic religion based on nature worship. The Sámi pantheon consisted of four general gods: the Mother, the Father, the Son and the Daughter (Radienacca, Radienacce, Radienkiedde and Radienneida). There was also a god of fertility, fire and thunder Horagalles, the sun goddess Beive and the moon goddess Manno as well as the goddess of death Jabemeahkka.\n\nLike many pagan religions, the Sámi saw life as a circular process of life, death and rebirth. The shaman was called a Noaidi and the traditions were passed on between families with an ageing Noaidi training a relative to take his or her place after he or she dies. Training went on as long as the Noaidi lived but the pupil had to prove his or her skills before a group of Noaidi before being eligible to become a fully fledged shaman at the death of his or her mentor.\n\nThe Norwegian church undertook a campaign to Christianise the Sámi in the 16th and 17th century with most of the sources being missionaries. While the vast majority of the Sámi in Norway have been Christianised, some of them still follow their traditional faith and some Noaidi are still practising their ancient religion. Sami people are often more religious than Norwegians.\n\nThe conversion of Norway to Christianity began in the 1000s. The raids on the British isles and on the Frankish kingdoms had brought the Vikings in touch with Christianity. Haakon the Good of Norway who had grown up in England tried to introduce Christianity in the mid-10th century, but had met resistance from pagan leaders and soon abandoned the idea.\n\nAnglo-Saxon missionaries from England and Germany had tried to convert Norwegians to Christianity but only had limited success. However, they succeeded in converting Olaf I of Norway to Christianity. Olaf II of Norway (later Saint Olaf) had more success in his attempts to convert the population with many Norwegians converting in the process, and he is credited with Christianizing Norway.\n\nThe Christians in Norway often established churches or other holy sites at places that had previously been sacred under the Norse religion. The spread of conversion can be measured by burial sites as Pagans were buried with grave goods while Christians were not. Christianity had become well established in Norway by the middle of the 11th century and had become dominant by the middle of the 12th century. Stave churches were built of wood without the use of nails in the 13th century.\n\nThe Norwegians were Catholic until the Danish king Christian III of Denmark ordered Denmark to convert to Lutheranism in 1536 and as Norway was then ruled by Denmark, the Norwegians converted as well. The Danish Church Ordinance was introduced in 1537 and a Norwegian Church Council officially adopted Lutheranism in 1539. Monasteries were dissolved and church property confiscated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Norway established and funded by the state.\nBishops still adhering to Catholicism were deposed with Olav, Archbishop of Nidaros fleeing the country in 1537 and another bishop dying in prison in 1542. Catholicism held on in remote parts of Norway for another couple of decades, although eventually the remaining Catholics converted or fled, to the Netherlands in particular. Many pastors were replaced with Danes and Norwegian clergy being trained at the University of Copenhagen as Norway did not have a university. The Danish translation of the Bible was used as were Danish catechisms and hymns. The use of Danish in religious ceremonies had a strong influence on the development of the Norwegian language.\n\nThe church undertook a program to convert the Sámi in the 16th and 17th century with the program being largely successful. The University of Oslo was established in 1811 allowing priests to train in Norway. The Norwegian Constitution of 1814 did not grant religious freedom as it stated that Jews and Jesuits were denied entrance in Norway. Moreover, adherence to Evangelical Lutheran Christianity was compulsory, and so was church attendance. A ban on lay preaching was lifted in 1842, allowing several free church movements and a strong lay movement being established in the Evangelical Lutheran Church. Three years later, the so-called Dissenter Law came into effect, allowing other Christian congregations to establish in Norway. Atheism became allowed as well, and the ban on Judaism was lifted in 1851. Monasticism and Jesuits were allowed starting in 1897 and 1956 respectively.\n\nThe Norwegian Constitution was amended in 1964 allowing freedom of religion; the exceptions are the Norwegian royal family, who are required by the Constitution to be Lutherans. Furthermore, at least one half of the Government must belong to the state church. On May 21, 2012 the constitution was again amended to increase the autonomy of the Evangelical Lutheran Church and decrease the connection to the state.\n\nChurch pastors were active in the Norwegian resistance movement during World War II. The state church was also active in the moral debate which arose in the 1950s.\n\nIslam is the largest non-Christian religion in Norway with about 2.9% of the population officially (about 153,000 people in 2016) and has increased by 26.6% since 2012. \nIn 2006, 56% lived in the counties of Oslo and Akershus. \nSome sources report that the numbers are higher than those on the official records; the Pew Foundation calculates the number of Muslims in Norway for 2010 at about 144,000 and projects the numbers to reach 359,000 by 2030.\nFor 2013, Professor Leirvik of the University of Oslo estimates regarding the number of people of Muslim background though not necessarily practicing in Norway at about 220,000 including people from Pakistan, Somalia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Bosnia, Kosovo, Iran, and Morocco. In the end of the 1990s, Islam passed the Catholic Church and Pentecostalism to become the largest minority religion in Norway (though the Catholics have regained ground since), provided Islam is seen as one united grouping, as there are different denominations in existence, such as Sunni, Shia and Ahmadiyya. In 2009, the registered Muslims were members of 126 different congregations.\n\nThere were never many Jews in Norway. Although there are no indications of active persecution, Jews were banned from entering and residing in the dual monarchy of Denmark-Norway for long periods of time. After the split with Denmark in 1814, the new Norwegian Constitution included a notorious paragraph that banned Jews and Jesuits from entering the realm. The paragraph, which was abolished with regard to Jews in 1851 after strong political debate, appears to have been primarily aimed at the Jewish Messianic revival movements in Eastern Europe at the time, since the Sephardi and Western European Jews in many cases seem to have been exempted.\n\nShechita, Jewish kosher slaughter, has been banned in Norway since 1929.\n\n741 Norwegian Jews were murdered during the Nazi occupation of Norway during World War II, and in 1946 there were only 559 Jews registered living in Norway.\n\nHinduism is a minority faith in Norway. 75% of Hindus are from Sri Lanka. There are 4 Hindu temples in Norway. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad is registered in Norway and ISKCON has a centre in the country.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Norway began with contact between traveling Scandinavians with early Persian believers of the Bahá'í Faith in the mid-to-late 19th century. Bahá'ís first visited Scandinavia in the 1920s following `Abdu'l-Bahá's, then head of the religion, request outlining Norway among the countries to which Bahá'ís should pioneer and the first Bahá'í to settle in Norway was Johanna Schubartt. Following a period of more Bahá'í pioneers coming to the country, Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies spread across Norway while the national community eventually formed a Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly in 1962. In 2016 there were around 1100 Bahá'ís in the country.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Church is still established and administered through a Government department. There is, however, an ever ongoing political debate on separation of church and state. The state also supports religious aid organisations such as Norwegian Church Aid financially. Bishops are formally nominated by the Norwegian Monarch, who is the head of the church, and clerical salaries and pensions regulated by law. Clergy train in the theological faculties of the University of Oslo and the University of Tromsø, as well as Misjonshøgskolen (School of Mission and Theology) in Stavanger and Menighetsfakultetet (MF Norwegian School of Theology) in Oslo. Menighetsfakultetet is by far the most important educational institution for the Norwegian clergy. Men and women can both become members of the clergy of the church. The church has two sacraments namely Baptism and Holy Communion.\n\nIn Norway as of 2016, 71.5% of the population are members of the Evangelical Lutheran Church as compared to 96% in the 1960s. Kevin Boyle's 1997 global study of freedom of religion states that \"Most members of the state church are not active adherents, except for the rituals of birth, confirmation, weddings, and burials. Some 3 per cent on average attend church on Sunday and 10 per cent on average attend church every month.\"\n\nOther religious groups operate freely and people are also free not to be affiliated with any religion or life stance. Approximately 16.8% are not members of any official religious or philosophical communities, while about 10% of the population are members of other religious or philosophical communities outside the Church of Norway. Catholics and Muslims are each about 2.9% of the population and have been rising in numbers in recent years. About 1.8% of the population lists the Norwegian Humanist Association as a life stance instead of a religion. Orthodox, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists and Sikhs are present in very small numbers, together comprising about 1 percent of the population.\n\nHowever officially belonging to a religion does not necessarily reflect actual religious beliefs and practices. \nIn 2005, a survey conducted by Gallup International in sixty-five countries indicated that Norway was the least religious country in Western Europe, with 29% counting themselves as believing in a church or deity, 26% as being atheists, and 45% not being entirely certain.\n\nIn 2007, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in favor of Norwegian parents who had sued the Norwegian state. The case was about a subject in compulsory school, \"kristendomskunnskap med religions- og livssynsorientering\" (Teachings of Christianity with orientation about religion and philosophy), KRL. The applicants complained that the refusal to grant full exemption from KRL prevented them from ensuring that their children received an education in conformity with their atheist views and philosophical convictions. A few years earlier, in 2004, the UN Committee on Human Rights in Geneva had given its support to the parents. In 2008 the subject was renamed to \"Religion, livssyn og etikk\" (Religion, philosophy and ethics). The majority of this course is however still tied to Christianity. Philosophy and ethics are not properly introduced until after compulsory school. The largest Christian school in Norway has 1,400 pupils and 120 employees. \"Kristne Friskolers Forbund\" is an interest group of approximately 130 Christian schools and colleges, including 12 Christian private schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "6910006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6910006", "title": "Sakadagami", "text": "Sakadagami\n\nIn Buddhism, the Sakadāgāmin (Pali; Sanskrit: \"Sakṛdāgāmin\"), \"returning once\" or \"once-returner,\" is a partially enlightened person, who has cut off the first three chains with which the ordinary mind is bound, and significantly weakened the fourth and fifth. Sakadagaminship is the second stage of the four stages of enlightenment.\n\nThe Sakadagamin will be reborn into the realm of the senses at most once more. If, however, he attains the next stage of enlightenment (Anagamiship) in this life, he will not come back to this world.\n\nThe three specific chains or fetters (Pali: ) of which the Sakadagamin is free are:<br>\n1. (Pali) - Belief in self<br>\n2. Sīlabbata-parāmāsa (Pali) - Attachment to rites and rituals<br>\n3. Vicikicchā (Pali) - Skeptical doubt<br>The Sakadagami also significantly weakened the chains of:<br>\n4. Kāma-rāga (Pali) - Sensuous craving<br>\n5. Byāpāda (Pali) - Ill-will\n\nThus, the Sakadagamin is an intermediate stage between the Sotapanna, who still has comparatively strong sensuous desire and ill-will, and the Anagami, who is completely free from sensuous desire and ill-will. A Sakadagami's mind is very pure. Thoughts connected with greed, hatred and delusion do not arise often, and when they do, do not become obsessive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2934568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2934568", "title": "Template network", "text": "Template network\n\nThe Template Network was once called the Emin Society or the Emin Foundation, and is now an international network of independent groups. As of 2014 there are some 1600 people regularly engaged within these groups worldwide in countries including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, England, Germany, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway and the United States of America. Activities are diverse with interests including personal development, spirituality, psychology, meditation, music, dance, ecology, healing, sustainable development, evolution and health and well-being.\n\nIn 1971 a small number of people began to meet with Raymond Armin (1924 - 2002) to research the core issues of life, the universe and everything. The group called their activities \"The Way\" and later \"The Emin\".\n\nBy 1974 the group had 80 members; Raymond Armin was employed full-time by the society and a centre was rented for meetings at Gospel Oak in London. By 1976 a larger place was found at Putney. By 1977 there were 700 members in the UK.\n\n\"Emin\" is an Arabic word which means the faithful one.\n\nIn 1981 a request for verification of this from the London Central Mosque produced the response that Emin is a Europeanised variation of the \"Arabic\": Ameen. The meanings attributed to the various forms of the word are: \"trust\", \"faith\", \"worthy to be trusted\", \"truly\", \"reliable\". It is also a form of the Hebrew word \"Amen\" and appears also in Christian usage with the meaning: \"I concur\" (used at the end of a prayer to signify that the words in the prayer are true and reliable, a statement of faith).\n\nThe Emin philosophy is the result of the work of Raymond Armin (AKA Leo), born in Camden Town, London, in 1924. As a child, Leo came to develop a deep conviction that everything that existed did so according to a core set of laws or principles; later he would call these the Natural Laws.\n\nDuring the 1940s and 50's Leo married and had a family but maintained his on-going enquiry into the meaning and purpose of life. He spent much time researching in the British Museum and the British Library. In 1971 a number of young people met Leo and started meeting with him on a regular basis. They found him to have the ability to unlock perception into a huge range of subjects using a toolkit of techniques later referred to as groundwork.\n\nLeo shared these techniques with the students and together they worked into new subjects as the topics arose during their regular meetings. To aid students in their own researches, Leo wrote papers explaining important concepts and these became known as the Emin archives. Using the natural laws, Leo was able to understand and explain even the most complicated of phenomena in a simple to grasp form - the basic premise being that natural laws are at the core of the appearance of everything.\n\nAs Leo continued to work with students, so the Emin philosophy developed and grew. The concept of universal templates developed out from the Emin philosophy and describes personal development according to 21 levels or stations.\n\nThe Emin represents an experimental spiritual philosophy. The first premise is the fact of a human life and all that it may do. The second premise is that human life's relationship with creation. Each individual is responsible for their own development and destiny. The Emin web site (see below) gives a good introduction to the philosophy.\n\nThe philosophy contains work on many areas of life and contains many propositions that include:\n\n\nThe idea of sentiment runs through much, if not all, of the Emin philosophy. The premise being that a person's sentiment towards anything, including themselves, will largely determine what type of relationship, dealing or interaction they might have with that thing. As an example, if a person has a good sentiment towards the planet then they will respect her and appreciate her processes and will want to help in issues that might affect her well being. And, a person's sentiment towards their partner will likewise determine the nature of that relationship. This can be extended and applied to any matter at all and is viewed as being fundamental to a person's spiritual journey especially where integration is concerned.\n\nThe above-mentioned subjects comprise what is often referred to as the Emin archives. Other components include writings on psychology and personal development, theology, history, meditation and various practical personal development exercises and so on.\n\nThe philosophy was developed from original research - although certain elements of the philosophy have similarity to those found in Buddhism, Taoism, Shinto, the works of Gurdjieff and Rudolf Steiner, and other eastern and western philosophy and theology.\n\nA number of the early archives (from the 1970s) borrow and develop concepts from Gurdjieff's work, and these include: The \"Ray of Creation\", the \"Five Centres\", \" Essence & Personality \", Knowledge, Understanding & Being, Body Types, The Three Brains, States of Consciousness, Levels of existence, Cosmology and Laws.\n\nExercises include mental and physical conditioning, reasoning, meditation and contemplation. They are designed to regulate and develop the different functional levels of the human system. Many exercises are designed to promote understanding of oneself and of others; and then there are exercises of a more fun nature designed to release stress.\n\nAn ingredient of the Emin way is to seek understanding in order to change the conduct of one's life to come into greater harmony with the higher, spiritual, self. There is, however, no ideal of ascetism or otherworldliness in the Emin – spirituality is to be realised \"through\" rather than \"at the cost of\" ordinary, human life in the world.\n\nIn 1980 the Emin was the subject of a series of lampoons in the magazine \"Private Eye\". There was a follow-on article in the \"Daily Express\".\n\nAnti-cult groups have called the society secretive, and have complained that Emin archives are uninformative. The society responds that Emin archives are the product of philosophical and scientific studies and often occur in a graduated fashion from simple to more advanced so that the concepts are easier to grasp and the reader is not overwhelmed. The organisation explains that the practise of quoting subsections of text out of their original context does not lend to easy understanding by the casual observer. They say that complex language is sometimes required to cover abstract and difficult-to-master concepts although wherever possible, people try to keep it simple.\n\nVarious books have been published in limited editions. They include:\n\nCobwebs Press is a name used to publish some Emin writings\n\n"}
{"id": "37434894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37434894", "title": "Temples of the Beqaa Valley", "text": "Temples of the Beqaa Valley\n\nThe Temples of the Beqaa Valley are a number of shrines and Roman temples that are dispersed around the Beqaa Valley in Lebanon. The most important and famous are those in Roman Heliopolis. A few temples are built on former buildings of the Phoenician & Hellenistic era, but all are considered to be of Roman construction and were started to be abandoned after the fourth century with the fall of the Roman Paganism..\n\nDuring the early first century BC the territory of the Beqaa valley became jointly controlled by the cities of Damascus, Sidon and Paneas, that were conquered by the Romans in 64 BC.\nIt is thought that the area was inhabited continuously until the third century AD. Although the sites may have been built on previous layers of architecture, the current temples are predominantly considered to be of Roman construction and were largely abandoned after the fourth century AD during the Byzantine era.\nIn the first century the Temples started to be built by the Romans, using the nearby quarries with famous \"\"Monoliths\". The Temple of Jupiter in Heliopolis (in a complex area called even \"Sanctuary of Heliopolitan Zeus\") was the biggest pagan temple in the classical world. The presence of a huge quarry was one of the reasons for the Roman decision to create a huge \"Great Court\" of a big pagan temple complex in this mountain site, located at nearly 1100 meters of altitude and on the eastern Borders of the Roman Empire: it took three centuries to create this colossal Roman paganism's temple complex.\nWith Constantine the Great Christianity was declared officially the religion of the Roman empire and the pagan Temples started to be neglected. Later the Bizantines used some materials from the abandoned Temples.\n\nDocumentation of the temples in the Beqaa Valley area began in the 19th century, with surveys by Edward Robinson in 1852 CE and Sir Charles Warren. The most notable of the temples of Venus, Bacchus and Jupiter at Baalbek were thoroughly studied by Paul Collart and Pierre Coupel. Ten sacred sites were also documented by Daniel Krencker and Willy Schietzschmann in 1938. Maurice Tallon published an itinerary of the sanctuaries in 1967 with details of the paths to reach them. George F. Taylor provided a pictorial guide in the late 1960s with more recent information coming from Shim'on Dar in 1993 and epigraphic surveys in 2002 and 2003.\n\nThe Seleucids occupied the area after 200 BCE, shortly after which the Ituraeans developed a principality in the area until the fall of Chalcis when the territory passed to the Herodian kings Agrippa I and Agrippa II. After the end of the first century CE the territory became jointly controlled by the cities of Damascus, Sidon and Paneas. It is thought that the area was inhabited continuously until the third century CE. Although the sites may have been built on previous layers of architecture, the current temples are predominantly considered to be of Roman construction and were largely abandoned after the fourth century CE during the Byzantine era.\n\nThe temples were often connected with ancient occupational sites. Olivier Callot and Pierre-Louis Gatier argued that several of the temple sites might have been mistaken for monumental tombs as Roman mausoleums such as Saidnaya have been found in Lebanon. Taylor held the view that the religious architecture was the responsibility of \"the hand of a single master builder\" but was not able to answer the question of why so many shrines should be concentrated in the area. Henry Seyrig, when reviewing Krencker and Zscheitzmann's \"Romische Tempel in Syrien\" highlighted that \"the clue to an important social and economic change that would deserve to be one day the focus of a study\". There is still a deplorable lack of a comprehensive study into the history, archaeology, architecture of these buildings and ancient sites, or the religious life of the people who used them.\n\nThe typology of the temples has been studied and they are generally divided into Antae, Prostylos or Peripteral types. Antae temples have side walls that extend to form a porch at the front or rear (or both) and terminated in pilasters that were called the \"antae\". If columns were placed in advance of the walls or antae, the temple was termed Prostylos and if columns surrounded the temple it was termed Peripteral. The peripteral type is thought to be the most perfect form of temple and the best preserved of this type is the Temple of Bacchus at Baalbek.\n\nIt was the opinion of Edward Robinson that worship was not conducted within the temples, but rather outside it. The temple was the domain of the priests where they venerated a cult statue. Worshippers gathered around the temple at ceremonial times and hence there was no need for divisions within it, such as the aisles of modern churches. The cult images, along with temples themselves would often be aligned so that the sun would illuminate them at certain times of day and year. George F. Taylor was of the opinion that a sacrifice would be made when certain areas of the temple became illuminated. He suggested that a \"Minister of Works\" may have been responsible for local civil engineering in Ancient Roman times.\n\nGeorge F. Taylor divided up the Temples of Lebanon into three groups, one covering the Beqaa valley north of the road from Beirut to Damascus. Secondly a group to the south, including the Wadi al-Taym known as Temples of Mount Hermon. Thirdly a group in the area west of a line drawn along the ridge of Mount Lebanon that includes Makam Er-Rab, Sfire, Kasr Naous, Amyioun, Bziza, Batroun, Edde, Mashnaqa, Yanuh, Afka, Kalaat Fakra, Kalaa, Sarba, Antoura, Deir el-Kalaa, Shheem and the coastal plains of Beirut, Byblos, Sidon, Tripoli, Lebanon and Tyre. The Temples of the Beqaa Valley in Taylor's first group included El-Lebwe, Yammoune, Qasr Banat, Iaat, Nahle, Baalbek, Hadet, Kasr Neba, Temnin el-Foka, Nebi Ham, Saraain El Faouqa, Niha, Hosn Niha, Fourzol and Kafr Zebad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36061808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36061808", "title": "Umū dabrūtu", "text": "Umū dabrūtu\n\nUmū dabrūtu, inscribed \"u\"\"-mi da-ab-ru-ti\" and meaning \"Violent Storms\" (lit. \"fierce day\") was an ancient Mesopotamian mythical beast, demon or species of creature and one of the eleven monsters created by Tiāmat in her conflict with the younger gods in the Epic of Creation, Enûma Eliš. Its form is unknown but was probably a composite beast like its companions.\n\nThe Enûma Eliš relates that the Umū dabrūtu and its companions \"bore cruel weapons, without fear of the fight\". Their demise, however, was complete as Marduk is said to have overcome them and \"broke their weapons and bound them (the creatures) to his feet\". His transformation of them into benevolent apotropaic symbols to guard the gate of the Apsû, provides a precedent which would be imitated on the doorways of temples, palaces and homes.\n"}
{"id": "44058966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44058966", "title": "Vilhelm Grønbech", "text": "Vilhelm Grønbech\n\nVilhelm Peter Grønbech (14 June 1873 – 21 April 1948) was a Danish cultural historian. He was professor of the history of religion at the University of Copenhagen and also had a great influence on Danish intellectual life, especially during and after World War II.\n\nGrønbech was born in Allinge, on Bornholm. His family moved to Copenhagen and beginning in 1890 he studied philology at the University of Copenhagen (Danish with Latin and English as secondary subjects), while working at the Royal Library and as a schoolteacher. In 1902 he received his doctorate for a study of the historical phonetics of Turkish, after which he began teaching at the university, first as a docent and then from 1908 to 1911 as a lecturer in English literature, while also working as a church organist. He published a book of poems and a study of the dialect of Bukhara. In 1909 the first volume of his work on Germanic paganism, \"Vor Folkeætt i Oldtiden\" (English title \"The Culture of the Teutons\") was published, and in 1911 he became a docent in the history of religion. After the appearance of the remaining three volumes of \"Vor Folkeætt i Oldtiden\" in 1912 and of a related essay, \"Religionsskiftet i Norden\" on the conversion of Scandinavia (1913), the University of Leipzig sought in 1914 to award him a professorship and in 1915 he was appointed professor of the history of religion at Copenhagen, a position which he held until 1943. Early in his career he also taught at the state college of education and from 1918 to 1920 headed the Danish Society for Psychic Research. \n\nDuring the German occupation of Denmark in World War II, Grønbech's lectures drew large audiences, and after the war he founded the periodical \"Frie Ord\" with the theologian Hal Koch. It ran from 1946 to 1948, with Grønbech the primary contributor, and was rapidly successful, with 6,000 subscribers within a few months of its founding. Several of his articles published there were republished in posthumous collections; a 1943 lecture series at Borup's College in Copenhagen was published from shorthand transcriptions as \"Lyset fra Akropolis\" (The Light from the Acropolis, 1950).\n\nGrønbech was nominated for the Nobel prize in literature eleven times. In the year of his retirement, Allinge awarded him honorary citizenship and the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters awarded him a free residence at Lundehave in Helsingør; he died in Helsingør in 1948.\n\nGrønbech was married twice, in 1900 to Pauline Ramm, who died in 1946, and in August 1947 to Honorine Louise Hermelin, rector of the Swedish folk high school for women at Fogelstad in Sweden. His son Kaare Grønbech, born in 1901, was a specialist in Asian languages. Grønbech ordered his papers destroyed, but the Royal Library has a large archive.\n\nAlthough trained as a philologist, Grønbech's focus from his earliest major work, \"Vor Folkeætt i Oldtiden\", was on analysing key terms in order to apprehend the essence of a religion and hence of a culture. He later applied the same method to the study of Greek, medieval, and Indian mystics (\"Mystikere i Europa og Indien\", 4 volumes, 1925, 1932, 1934, with the last volume being on 19th-century poets) and two studies of Greece and Hellenistic Rome, \"Hellenismen\" (1940; 2 volumes published, a projected third not completed) and \"Hellas\" (4 volumes, 1942, 1944, 1945). He was unusually capable of immersing himself in the system of thought he wished to depict, such that in the words of his English-language biographer he could \"write about [it] as if he accepted its theses and principles\", and \"it is not possible to circumscribe accurately what his own religious—not to mention political—convictions must have been.\" The admission of multiple realities (but only one actuality) is a leitmotiv in his work, and he gave his second collection of poems, published in 1941, the title \"Solen har mange veje\" (The Sun Has Many Paths). Beginning with a much reprinted 1915 essay, \"Primitiv Religion\", he took a then revolutionary position with respect to \"primitive\" thought, rejecting the evolutionary hypothesis underlying works such as Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\" and instead holding that so-called 'primitive' religion is as complex as modern religion, differing from it in the direct relationship between 'primitive' people and their world; he argued that to label a culture 'primitive' said less about them than about \"our own astonishment that people can be different from us\". This openness combined with his heavy use of paraphrase can make it hard to distinguish his own position from those of the thinkers he is depicting, for example in his presentation of Empedocles' thought in \"Hellas\", Volume 4.\n\nGrønbech did have a fundamental belief in the importance of \"harmony\", which he saw as the permeation of life by religion, specifically as society constituting a \"community of believers\". He viewed emphasis on the individual as destructive to this and therefore criticised Kierkegaard in several of his works, once characterising him as \"the last offshoot of medieval mysticism and its selfish concerns and the scholasticism which was identified with it\". He was critical of Goethe, on whom he wrote a two-volume book (1935, 1939), because while seeking harmony, he did not appreciate the need for a community of believers. In contrast he appears to have felt a kinship with Herder and was ahead of literary fashion in his appreciation of both Schlegel and Blake.\n\nIn general Grønbech was suspicious of mystics as he regarded the mystical experience as inherently selfish; he reached this conclusion after an early mystical experience of his own. He made exceptions for, for example, Wordsworth, whom he regarded as a mystic who had achieved harmony; in an entire volume of his work on mystics devoted to St Teresa, he writes about her with \"ironic humo[u]r\" but characterises her as having \"undermined the authority she was appealing to\", contributing to the revolution in thought that \"drew the human being out of his church's commonality\". In his view as set out in his second major work, \"Religiøse strømninger i det nittende aarhundrede\" (Religious Currents of the Nineteenth Century, 1922; translated edition \"Religious Currents in the 19th Century\", 1964), that revolution that ushered in the modern age of crisis in Western religion began not in the Sixteenth Century with the Protestant Reformation but around 1770 with the development of Romanticism, and the Darwinian theory of evolution restored faith in a universe of laws and was the basis for a new religious harmony. He also regarded the book as a vital means of uniting modern people in shared experience, \"lift[ing] modern man out of his lonely imprisonment\".\n\nGrønbech's book on Hellenism was an outgrowth of his work on a three-volume analysis of early Christianity, \"Jesus, menneskesønnen\" (Jesus, the Son of Man, 1935), \"Paulus\" (St Paul, 1940) and \"Kristus\" (Christ, 1941). He interpreted Jesus as \"an agitator in the world of the spirit\" who attempted to create the Kingdom of God on earth; the first book, \"Jesus\", is more simply written than other works of his and provoked negative responses, but became his most-read book. One reviewer of \"Jesus\" noted that a theme of Grønbech's, which he saw in Jesus, was the commandment to simply live, rather than to analyse morality. The other two volumes, and the work on Hellenism, appeared only after Denmark was under occupation, and his treatment of Hellenistic Rome can often be read as applicable to his own period.\n\nGrønbech's ideas were influential in Denmark, and reached a broad popular audience. His writings and in particular \"Frie Ord\" have often been said to have been the impetus for the establishment of \"Heretica\", an influential literary journal published from 1948 to 1953; the third issue contains three articles written in tribute to him following his death, of which that by the poet and co-editor Thorkild Bjørnvig is titled \"The Heretic\".\n\nA Grønbech Society was formed in Copenhagen in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "7420886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7420886", "title": "Willem Visser 't Hooft", "text": "Willem Visser 't Hooft\n\nWillem Adolph Visser 't Hooft (20 September 1900 – 4 July 1985) was a Dutch theologian who became the first secretary general of the World Council of Churches in 1948 and held this position until his retirement in 1966.\n\nVisser 't Hooft was born in Haarlem, in the Netherlands and in his early adult years, was involved in Dutch student Christian movement and soon became involved internationally. In 1925, while on his first trip to the United States with John R. Mott, he became interested in the \"social gospel\" movement. He wrote his doctoral dissertation on it at the University of Leiden in 1928. From October 1929 (vol. 22, no. 4) through the third quarter, 1939 (vol. 32, no. 3), he served as editor of \"The Student World\", a quarterly magazine published in Geneva by the World's Student Christian Federation. The magazine's motto was \"Ut Omnes Unum Sint\".\n\nVisser 't Hooft was active in the resistance against Nazism. His apartment in Geneva, Switzerland became the meeting place for members of the German Resistance against the Third Reich between March and April 1944. Hilda Monte and Hannah Bertholet were among the 15-16 people from countries all over Europe who met to discuss international resistance to Nazism.\n\nIn 1938, Visser 't Hooft was named the first secretary general of the WCC, though he was only 38 at the time. He wrote 15 books in several different languages and numerous articles and some 50,000 letters.\n\nIn 1961, \"Time\" magazine did a cover story on Visser 't Hooft and the World Council of Churches.\nIn 1967, \"een christelijke HBS met 5-jarigen cursus\" school in Leiden was renamed and called after Visser 't Hooft, the (Christelijk Lyceum Dr. W.A. Visser 't Hooft).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3010111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3010111", "title": "Wormwood (Bible)", "text": "Wormwood (Bible)\n\nWormwood (ἀψίνθιον \"apsinthion\" or ἄψινθος \"apsinthos\" in Greek) is a star or angel that appears in the Book of Revelation.\n\nWormwood is mentioned seven times in the Hebrew Bible, always with the implication of bitterness. The word \"wormwood\" appears several times in the Old Testament, translated from the Hebrew term לענה (\"la'anah\", which means \"curse\" in Hebrew).\n\n\"Wormwood\" is only mentioned once in the Book of Revelation: Revelation 8 verse 10. \"The third angel sounded his trumpet, and a great star, blazing like a torch, fell from the sky on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water— the name of the star is Wormwood. A third of the waters turned bitter, and many people died from the waters that had become bitter.\" ()\n\nThe Greek word is believed to refer to a plant of the genus \"Artemisia\", used metaphorically to mean something with a bitter taste. The English rendering \"wormwood\" refers to the dark green oil produced by the plant, which was used to kill intestinal worms. In the Book of Revelation, it refers to the water being turned into wormwood, i.e. made bitter.\n\nCertain commentators have held that this \"great star\" represents one of several important figures in political or ecclesiastical history, while other Bible dictionaries and commentaries view the term as a reference to a celestial being. \"A Dictionary of The Holy Bible\" states, \"the star called Wormwood seems to denote a mighty prince, or power of the air, the instrument, in its fall.\"\n\nVarious religious groups and figures, including Seventh-day Adventists and the theologians Matthew Henry and John Gill, regard the verses of Revelation 8 as symbolic references to past events in human history. In the case of Wormwood, some historicist interpreters believe that this figure represents the army of the Huns as led by king Attila, pointing to chronological consistencies between the timeline of prophecy they have accepted and the history of the Huns' campaign in Europe. Others point to Arius, the emperor Constantine, Origen or the ascetic monk Pelagius, who denied the doctrine of Original sin.\n\nA number of Bible scholars consider the term \"Wormwood\" to be a purely symbolic representation of the bitterness that will fill the earth during troubled times, noting that the plant for which Wormwood is named, \"Artemisia absinthium\", or Mugwort, \"Artemisia vulgaris\", is a known Biblical metaphor for things that are unpalatably bitter. The Ukrainian language word for \"wormwood\" is чорнобиль or \"chornobyl\", the Ukrainian name of the town of Chernobyl.\n\n"}
