{"id": "35633041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35633041", "title": "Ajanbahu (term)", "text": "Ajanbahu (term)\n\nAjanbahu is a Sanskrit word to describe a person, whose length of arms is so that his finger touch his knee.\n\nIn Indian culture, persons with such physical characteristics are either Gods, saints, kings or great warriors. The idols of Hindu Gods like Rama, Lakshmana, Krishna when shown in standing position are depicted as ajanbahu feature. Even idols of Jain Tirthankars are shown as ajanbahu. The great saints like, Sai Baba of Shirdi, Ramkrishna Paramhansa, Swami Samartha and Gajanan Maharaj were said to have ajanbahu characteristic.\n\nAjanbahu Jatbasha, was so called because of the length of his arms, his fingers reaching to his knees (\"ajanbahu\")\n\n"}
{"id": "36653717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36653717", "title": "Al-Aqidah al-Tahawiyyah", "text": "Al-Aqidah al-Tahawiyyah\n\nAl-ʿAqīdah aṭ-Ṭaḥāwiyya is a popular exposition of Sunni Muslim doctrine written by the tenth-century Egyptian theologian and Hanafi jurist Abu Ja'far Ahmad at-Tahawi. There are a number of Muslim commentaries of the Tahawiyyah including ones by Qādī Ismā‘īl ibn Ibrāhīm al-Shaybānī (d. 629 AH), Abū Hafs Sirāj al-Dīn al-Ghaznawī (d. 773 AH), Ibn Abī l-ʿIzz (792 AH), 'Abd al-Ghani al-Maydani (d. 1298 AH) and Abdullah al-Harari (d. 1429 AH). It comprises 105 key points that list the essential matters in the creed of the Ahlus Sunnah wa`l Jama`ah.\n\nThe texts raises many points of creed that are essential matters and defines the belief of the Sunni Muslim, covering the topics;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38233702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38233702", "title": "Anakeion", "text": "Anakeion\n\nThe Anakeion or Anacaeum (from the Greek ), also known as the Sanctuary of the Dioskouroi, was a temple in Athens, which was situated neared the Acropolis and dedicated to Castor and Pollux.\n\nThe name of the temple derives from the Greek (an archaic form of , \"lords\" or \"kings\"), the title by which the Dioskouroi, Castor and Pollux, twin sons of Zeus and Leda, were commonly known in Attica.\n\nThe Old Agora, the predecessor of the Classical Agora, was used in the fifth century and before as a rallying point, and references in Andokides and Thucydides to musters at the Anakeion in 415 and 411 BCE have led scholars to conclude that the Anakeion may have lain within the vicinity of the Old Agora, perhaps to the east of the Acropolis.\n\nThe decoration of the Anakeion, according to Pausanias, fell to Mikon and Polygnotos. The former depicted the Argonauts, the followers of Jason, with particular attention to Akastos and his horses. Polygnotos depicted the \"Rape of the Leukippides\": the forcible abduction and marriage of Phoebe and Hilaeira, daughters of Leukippos, by the Dioskouroi. This painting may have earned him his Athenian citizenship. \n"}
{"id": "3516329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516329", "title": "Ananta Samhita", "text": "Ananta Samhita\n\nIn Hinduism, the Ananta Samhita is a recently created scripture, authored by Ananta Vasudeva, a disciple of Srila Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Thakur, founder of the Gaudiya Math. It is supposed to be a Pancaratra agama, part of the Pancaratra corpus known collectively as the \"Narada Pancaratra\" among Gaudiya Vaisnavas. Please see https://gosai.com/writings/greater-than-the-upanisads-and-the-vedas where Srila Sridhara deva Goswami of Sarasvata Gaudiya Math confirms this book was written by his godbrother Ananta Vasudeva.\n"}
{"id": "20246837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20246837", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Liberia", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Liberia\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Liberia begins with the entrance of the first member of the religion in 1952 and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in 1958 in Monrovia. By the end of 1963 there were five assemblies and Liberian Bahá'ís elected their first National Spiritual Assembly in 1975. Hosting various conferences through the '70's the community was somewhat disrupted by the First Liberian Civil War with some refugees going to Côte d'Ivoire in 1990 and the re-establishment of the National Spiritual Assembly in 1998. Third parties invited the modern Bahá'í community into their dialogues in the country while Bahá'ís have continued their work supporting a private Bahá'í school, the Bahá'í Academy and a private radio station. The Association of Religion Data Archives(relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 11,691 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nIn 1916-1917 `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States and Canada asking the followers of the religion to travel to regions of Africa; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The publication was delayed until 1919 in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919 after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu.\n\nParticular plans to bring the religion to Uganda began in 1950 involving the cooperation of American, British, Egyptian, and Persian Bahá'í communities and reached a level of coordination and detail that materials were translated into languages widely used in Africa before pioneers reached Africa. Wide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa was observed to begin in the 1950s and extend in the 1960s. In 1952, American William Fosterpioneered to Liberia as the first presence of the religion in the country and began a Bahá'í school named the Bahá'í Academy. Granadan Hermione Vera Keens-Douglas Edwards and Jamaican Julius Edwards (Knight of Bahá'u'lláh for Ghana in 1953) moved to Liberia and Foster and others helped form the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in 1958 in Monrovia. Mrs. Edwards served for many years under the Continental Board of Counsellors for Africa. In 1959 Muhammad Mustafa traveled to Liberia and was commissioned to explain some Muslim concerns about the Bahá'í Faith. This was ultimately published as There was a second assembly in Bomi Hills (see Tubmanburg) before 1963.\n\nIn 1956, the western African region with about 1000 Bahá'ís was organized into the regional National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of North-West Africa including Tunisia, Algeria, the various Moroccos and Cameroons, Togolands, the Gold Coast, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Madeira, the Canary Island, Cape Verde Islands, and St. Thomas Island. At this time the Bahá'ís in Liberia had an endowment or a national center in Bomi Hills By the end of 1963 there were assemblies in Bomi Hills, Harper City, Pleebo, Gboweta, and Monrovia. There were smaller groups of Bahá'ís in the a district of Gbarnga, Mano River Camp and Totota. Individual Bahá'ís lived in Belefania, Gbarma, another district of Gbarnga, Harbel, Kakata, Knowoke, Lazamai, Soboreke, Suakoko, and districts of Webbo. In 1967, the Bahá'í marriage ceremony was accepted in Liberia. And Enoch Olinga also had a large influence on growth of the community including witnessing the first election of the National Spiritual Assembly in 1975.\n\nIn 1971, the Bahá'ís of Liberia hosted one of the Continental Conferences called for by the Universal House of Justice. The Bahá'í Faith was a recognized part of the intellectual milieu at the University of Liberia in the early 1970s. The community hosted a West African Bahá'í Women's Conference held at the University of Liberia in December 1978. However, between the First and Second Liberian Civil War stretching from 1989 to 2003, some 200 Liberian Bahá'í refugees fled to Côte d'Ivoire in 1990 and there re-elected Local Assemblies, established regular Bahá'í meetings, invested the equivalent of $20 in order to buy tools for gardens and fish ponds and by ??? about 1,000 Bahá'ís and 25 Local Assemblies in the area. The use of folk art was mentioned as one reason for growth in the community - Liberian Bahá'ís had established a Light of Unity Project for promoting the arts. and Bahá'í radio stations of which Liberia has one.\n\nIn 1994 the first national youth conference held at which 75 youth came. By 1998, the National Spiritual Assembly was re-elected.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. While Liberia was still in civil war Bahá'ís continued to be active in and near Liberia. In 2000 a Bahá'í was among the volunteers that gave relief to refugees in Ghana. In 2002, Kathleen and Brannon Underwood pioneered in Liberia for a short time. Brannon had just retired in 2002 from a 30-year career as a professor of rehabilitation counseling in the master's program at South Carolina State University. In 2005 the United States Embassy in Liberia supported a panel discussion among religious leaders from the Islamic, Christian, and Bahá'í faiths. In 2007, the Liberian Better Future Foundation (BFF), in collaboration with the United Nations Refugee Agency, invited Bahá'í youth to be among the participants in a two-day interfaith leadership workshop in Jacob Town and Chairman of the National Spiritual Assembly in 2007, James Peabody spoke to the assemblage.\n\nIn 2004, Kathleen Underwood returned to serve as principal of the K-12 Bahá'í Academy, which was on the verge of closing. It was broke, needed to repair the roof and didn't have the means necessary to secure a license from the ministry of education have no textbooks relying solely on their instructors for information. Near the end of their studies, students must pass the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) which is administered by the West African Examinations Council. Each day the students participate in Formation, which includes the raising of the Liberian Flag, morning prayer and the recitation of the pledge to their flag.\n\nA small percentage of the Liberian population is Bahá'í, Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, or atheist. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 11,691 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37090064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37090064", "title": "Beth-Anath", "text": "Beth-Anath\n\nBeth-Anath was mentioned in the Bible Book of Joshua () and the Book of Judges () as a land given to Naphtali.\n\nThe Zenon Papyri (mid 3rd-century BCE) mentions a certain estate belonging to Apollonius in Βαιτανατα (= \"Beth-anath\"), a way-stop along the route traveled by the Zenon party as it passed through ancient Palestine. In the 2nd-century CE, Beth-Anath was considered a borderline village, inhabited by both Jews and Gentiles.\n\nSeveral places have been identified with Beth-Anath.\n\nAin Aata in Lebanon was suggested by Charles William Meredith van de Velde and Victor Guérin (1880:374) to be the ancient site of Beth-Anath. The same view was held by historical geographer Georg Kampffmeyer (1892).\n\nBi'ina in the Beit HaKerem Valley which divides Upper Galilee from the Lower Galilee was suggested by Ze'ev Safrai. This view is accepted by a host of archaeologists and historical geographers: W.F. Albright, (1923); Neubauer (1868:235–ff.); Abel (1928, pp. 409–415; 1938: 266); Alt (\"PJB\" 22, 1926, pp. 55–ff.; 24, 1928, p. 87); (\"Boundary\", p. 189); Rafael Frankel, \"et al.\" (2001:136); Aviam (2004:53).\n\nAharoni (1957:70-74) held the view that Beth-Anath was to be identified with \"Safed el-Battikh\", in the Bint Jbeil District. Aharoni cites Eusebius' \"Onomasticon\" and his mention of \"Batanaia\" being distant 15 miles from Caesarea, a place thought by Aharoni to refer to Cesarea Philippi (1957:73). According to him, this would put \"Batanaia\" (=Beth-Anath) in the vicinity of \"Safed el-Battikh\".\n\nHistorical geographer Samuel Klein (1934:18–34 ) placed Beth-Anath in Hinah, a town on the southeast side of Mount Hermon. His view is supported by Grintz (1964:67), who cites Josephus (\"Antiquities\" 5.1.22) as corroborating Klein's view, insofar that Naphtali's territory is said to have extended as far as Damascus in the east.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2304726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2304726", "title": "Bhaktivedanta Book Trust", "text": "Bhaktivedanta Book Trust\n\nThe Bhaktivedanta Book Trust (BBT) is the world's largest publisher of books concerning Krishna and the philosophy, religion, and culture of the Gaudiya Vaishnava tradition of India . It was established in 1972 by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, founder-acharya of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON). The BBT is the publisher for his books and for books by other authors. It also publishes the magazine \"Back to Godhead\" in English, Hindi, Marathi, Bengali, Italian, Hungarian, and other languages. The BBT is a nonprofit organization, independent of ISKCON, and supplies books both to ISKCON and to the book trade in general.\n\nBBT books range in complexity from brief, introductory volumes and study guides, summary studies, biographical material and short Sanskrit works all the way up to exhaustive multi-volume translations (with commentaries) of major Sanskrit and Bengali works. Its publications include original scriptural works, translated into more than 80 languages, and books that discuss and explain these traditional texts. The BBT also publishes audio books, audio CDs, video materials, and multimedia presentations.\n\nThe BBT publishes the \"Bhagavad Gita, Srimad-Bhagavatam, Isopanishad, Narada Bhakti Sutra,\" and (from the Gaudiya devotional tradition) the \"Sri Chaitanya Charitamrita,\" and numerous other books. Its latest multi-volume publication is an English translation, with commentary, of Sanatana Goswami's \"Brihad Bhagavatamrita.\"\n\nThe BBT publishes in all the major Eastern and Western European languages, in the major Indian languages, in the main languages of the former Soviet Union, and in Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese, Indonesian, Singhalese, Hebrew, Persian, and other languages.\n\nApart from the BBT's work in publishing, it helps finance the construction and renovation of Krishna temples—for example, in the most important Gaudiya Vaishnava holy places like Vrindavan and Mayapur.\n\nThe BBT has six main publishing divisions: North European, North American, Western Pacific, Mediterranean, African, and Indian. Every division is headed by a trustee, each responsible for publishing in the languages specific to that division. The trustees meet twice a year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38967444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38967444", "title": "Buddhism and violence", "text": "Buddhism and violence\n\nBuddhism and violence refers to acts of violence and aggression committed by Buddhists with religious, political, or socio-cultural motivations, as well as self-inflicted violence by ascetics or for religious purposes. Buddhism is generally seen as among the religious traditions least associated with violence. However, in the history of Buddhism, there have been acts of violence directed, promoted, or inspired by Buddhists. As far as Buddha's teachings and scriptures are concerned, Buddhism forbids violence for resolving conflicts.\n\nBuddhism encompasses a variety of traditions, beliefs and spiritual practices largely based on teachings attributed to Gautama Buddha. Ahimsa, a term meaning 'not to injure', is a primary virtue in Buddhism.\n\n\"Nirvana\" is the earliest and most common term used to describe the goal of the Buddhist path and the ultimate eradication of dukkha—nature of life that innately includes \"suffering\", \"pain\" or \"unsatisfactoriness\". Violent actions and thoughts, actions which harm and debase others and thoughts which contemplate the same, stand in the way of spiritual growth and the self-conquest which leads to the goal of existence and they are normally deemed unskilled (akusala) and cannot lead to the goal of Nirvana. Buddha condemned killing or harming living beings and encouraged reflection or mindfulness (satipatthana) as right action (or conduct), therefore \"the rightness or wrongness of an action centers around whether the action itself would bring about harm to self and/or others\". In the Ambalatthika-Rahulovada Sutta, the Buddha says to Rahula:\n\nThe right action or right conduct (\"samyak-karmānta\" / \"sammā-kammanta\") is the fourth aspect of the Noble Eightfold Path and it said that the practitioner should train oneself to be morally upright in one's activities, not acting in ways that would be corrupt or bring harm to oneself or to others. In the Chinese and Pali Canon, it is explained as:\n\nFor the lay follower, the \"Cunda Kammaraputta Sutta\" elaborates:\n\n\"Sarambha\" can be translated as \"accompanied by violence\". As the mind filled with lobha, dosa and moha (lust, hatred and delusion) is led to actions which are akusala. Indulging in violence is a form of self-harming. The rejection of violence in society is recognized in Buddhism as a prerequisite for the spiritual progress of society's members, because violence brings pain to beings with similar feelings to oneself. The Buddha is quoted in the Dhammapada as saying, \"All are afraid of the stick, all hold their lives dear. Putting oneself in another's place, one should not beat or kill others\". Metta (loving kindness), the development of mindstates of limitless good-will for all beings, and karuna, compassion that arises when you see someone suffering of the human being, are attitudes said to be excellent or sublime because they are the right or ideal way of conduct towards living beings (sattesu samma patipatti). The Sutta Nipata says \"'As I am, so are these. As are these, so am I.' Drawing the parallel to yourself, neither kill nor get others to kill.\"\n\nIn Buddhism, to take refuge in the Dharma—one of the Three Jewels—one should not harm other sentient beings. The Nirvana Sutra states, \"By taking refuge in the precious Dharma, One's minds should be free from hurting or harming others\". One of the Five Precepts of Buddhist ethics or śīla states, \"I undertake the training rule to abstain from killing.\" The Buddha reportedly stated, \"Victory breeds hatred. The defeated live in pain. Happily the peaceful live giving up victory and defeat.\" These elements are used to indicate Buddhism is pacifistic and all violence done by Buddhists, even monks, is likely due to economic or political reasons.\n\nThe teaching of right speech (\"samyag-vāc\" / \"sammā-vācā\") in the Noble Eightfold Path, condemn all speech that is in any way harmful (malicious and harsh speech) and divisive, encouraging to speak in thoughtful and helpful ways. The Pali Canon explained:\nMichael Jerryson, Associate Professor of Religious Studies at Ohio's Youngstown State University and co-editor of the book \"Buddhist Warfare\", said that \"Buddhism differs in that the act of killing is less the focus than the 'intention' behind the killing\" and \"The first thing to remember is that people have a penchant for violence, it just so happens that every religion has people in it.\"\n\nGananath Obeyesekere, Emeritus Professor of Anthropology at Princeton University, said that \"in the Buddhist doctrinal tradition... there is little evidence of intolerance, no justification for violence, no conception even of 'just wars' or 'holy wars.' ... one can make an assertion that Buddhist doctrine is impossible to reconcile logically with an ideology of violence and intolerance\"\n\nThere is however in Buddhism a long tradition of self-inflicted violence and death, as a form of asceticism or protest, as exemplified by the use of fires and burns to show determinations among Chinese monks or by the self-immolations of monks such as Thích Quảng Đức during the Vietnam war.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, Thailand has had several prominent virulent Buddhist monastic calls for violence. In the 1970s, nationalist Buddhist monks like Phra Kittiwuttho argued that killing Communists did not violate any of the Buddhist precepts. The militant side of Thai Buddhism became prominent again in 2004 when a Malay Muslim insurgency renewed in Thailand's deep south. At first Buddhist monks ignored the conflict as they viewed it as political and not religious but eventually they adopted an \"identity-formation\", as practical realities require deviations from religious ideals.\n\nIn recent years the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC), the military regime of Burma from 1988 to 2011, had strongly encouraged the conversion of ethnic minorities, often by force, as part of its campaign of assimilation. The regime promoted a vision of Burmese Buddhist nationalism as a cultural and a political ideology to legitimise its contested rule, trying to bring a religious syncretism between Buddhism and its totalitarian ideology.\n\nThe Saffron Revolution, a series of economic and political protests and demonstrations that took place during 2007, were led by students, political activists, including women, and Buddhist monks and took the form of a campaign of nonviolent resistance, sometimes also called civil resistance.\n\nIn response to the protests dozens of protesters were arrested or detained. Starting in September 2007 the protests were led by thousands of Buddhist monks, and those protests were allowed to proceed until a renewed government crackdown in late September 2007. At least 184 protesters were shot and killed and many were tortured. Under the SPDC, the Burmese army engaged in military offensives against ethnic minority populations, committing acts that violated international humanitarian law.\n\nMyanmar had become a stronghold of Buddhist aggression and such acts are spurred by hardline nationalistic monks. The oldest militant organisation active in the region is Democratic Karen Buddhist Army (DKBA), headed by a Buddhist monk U Thuzana, since 1992. In the recent years the monks, and the terrorist acts, are associated with the nationalist 969 Movement particularly in Myanmar and neighboring nations. The violence reached prominence in June 2012 when more than 200 people were killed and around 100,000 were displaced. As of 2012, the \"969\" movement by monks (the prominent among whom is Wirathu) had helped create anti-Islamic nationalist movements in the region, and have urged Myanmar Buddhists to boycott Muslim services and trades, resulting in persecution of Muslims in Burma by Buddhist-led mobs. However, not all of the culprits were Buddhists and the motives were as much economic as religious. On 20 June 2013, Wirathu was mentioned on the cover story of Time magazine as \"The Face of Buddhist Terror\". According to the Human Rights Watch report, the Burmese government and local authorities played a key role in the forcible displacement of more than 125,000 Rohingya people and other Muslims in the region. The report further specifies the coordinated attacks of October 2012 that were carried out in different cities by Burmese officials, community leaders and Buddhist monks to terrorize and forcibly relocate the population. The violence of Meiktila, Lashio (2013) and Mandalay (2014) are the latest Buddhist violence in Burma.\n\nMichael Jerryson, author of several books heavily critical of Buddhism's traditional peaceful perceptions, stated that, \"The Burmese Buddhist monks may not have initiated the violence but they rode the wave and began to incite more. While the ideals of Buddhist canonical texts promote peace and pacifism, discrepancies between reality and precepts easily flourish in times of social, political and economic insecurity, such as Myanmar's current transition to democracy.\"\n\nHowever several Buddhist leaders including Thích Nhất Hạnh, Bhikkhu Bodhi, Shodo Harada and the Dalai Lama among others condemned the violence against Muslims in Myanmar and called for peace, supporting the practice of the fundamental Buddhist principles of non-harming, mutual respect and compassion. The Dalai Lama said \"Buddha always teaches us about forgiveness, tolerance, compassion. If from one corner of your mind, some emotion makes you want to hit, or want to kill, then please remember Buddha's faith. We are followers of Buddha.\" He said that \"All problems must be solved through dialogue, through talk. The use of violence is outdated, and never solves problems.\"\n\nMaung Zarni, a Burmese democracy advocate, human rights campaigner, and a research fellow at the London School of Economics who has written on the violence in Myanmar and Sri Lanka, states that there is no room for fundamentalism in Buddhism. \"No Buddhist can be nationalistic,\" said Zarni, \"There is no country for Buddhists. I mean, no such thing as ‘me,’ ‘my’ community, ‘my’ country, ‘my’ race or even ‘my’ faith.\"\n\nAshokavadana states that there was a mass killing of Jains for disrespecting the Buddha by King Ashoka in which around 18,000 followers of Jainism were killed. However this incident is controversial. According to K.T.S. Sarao and Benimadhab Barua, stories of persecutions of rival sects by Ashoka appear to be a clear fabrication arising out of sectarian propaganda.\n\nBuddhism in Sri Lanka has a unique history and has played an important role in the shaping of Sinhalese nationalist identity. Consequently, politicized Buddhism has contributed to ethnic tension in the island between the majority Sinhalese Buddhist population and other minorities, especially the Tamils.\n\nThe mytho-historical accounts in the Sinhalese Buddhist national chronicle Mahavamsa ('Great Chronicle'), a non-canonical text written in the sixth century CE by Buddhist monks to glorify Buddhism in Sri Lanka, have been influential in the creation of Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism and militant Buddhism. The Mahavamsa states that Lord Buddha made three visits to Sri Lanka in which he rids the island of forces inimical to Buddhism and instructs deities to protect the ancestors of the Sinhalese (Prince Vijaya and his followers from North India) to enable the establishment and flourishing of Buddhism in Sri Lanka. This myth has led to the widely held Sinhalese Buddhist belief that the country is Sihadipa (island of the Sinhalese) and Dhammadipa (the island ennobled to preserve and propagate Buddhism). In other words, Sinhalese Buddhist nationalists maintain that they are the Buddha's chosen people, and that the island of Sri Lanka is the Buddhist promised land. The Mahavamsa also describes an account of the Buddhist warrior king Dutthagamani, his army, and 500 Buddhist monks battling and defeating the Tamil king Elara, who had come from South India and usurped power in Anuradhapura (the island's capital at the time). When Duthagamani laments over the thousands he has killed, the eight arhats (Buddha's enlightened disciples) who come to console him reply that no real sin has been committed by him because he has only killed Tamil unbelievers who are no better than beasts, then go on to say: \"thou wilt bring glory to the doctrine of the Buddha in manifold ways; therefore cast away care from the heart, O ruler of men\".\n\nThe Dutthagamani's campaign against king Elara was not to defeat injustice, as the Mahavamsa describes Elara as a good ruler, but to restore Buddhism through a united Sri Lanka under a Buddhist monarch, even by the use of violence. The Mahavamsa story about Buddha's visit to Sri Lanka where he (referred to as the \"Conqueror\") subdues forces inimical to Buddhism, the Yakkhas (depicted as the non-human inhabitants of the island), by striking \"terror to their hearts\" and driving them from their homeland, so that his doctrine should eventually \"shine in glory\", has been described as providing the warrant for the use of violence for the sake of Buddhism and as an account that is in keeping with the general message of the author that the political unity of Sri Lanka under Buddhism requires the removal of uncooperative groups.\n\nAccording to Neil DeVotta (an Associate Professor of Political Science), the mytho-history described in the Mahavamsa \"justifies dehumanizing non-Sinhalese, if doing so is necessary to preserve, protect, and propagate the dhamma (Buddhist doctrine). Furthermore, it legitimizes a just war doctrine, provided that war is waged to protect Buddhism. Together with the Vijaya myth, it introduces the bases for the Sinhalese Buddhist belief that Lord Buddha designated the island of Sri Lanka as a repository for Theravada Buddhism. It claims the Sinhalese were the first humans to inhabit the island (as those who predated the Sinhalese were subhuman) and are thus the true \"sons of the soil\". Additionally, it institutes the belief that the island's kings were beholden to protect and foster Buddhism. All of these legacies have had ramifications for the trajectory of political Buddhism and Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism.\"\n\nWith the rise of modern Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries as a reaction to the changes brought under the British colonialism, the old religious mytho-history of the Mahavamsa (especially the emphasis on the Sinhalese and Tamil ethnicities of Duthagamani and Elara, respectively) was revitalized and consequently would prove to be detrimental to the intergroup harmony in the island. As Heather Selma Gregg writes: \"Modern-day Sinhalese nationalism, rooted in local myths of being a religiously chosen people and of special progeny, demonstrates that even a religion perceived as inherently peaceful can help fuel violence and hatred in its name.\"\n\nBuddhist revivalism took place among the Sinhalese to counter Christian missionary influence. The British commissioned the Sinhala translation of the Mahavamsa (which was originally written in Pali), thereby making it accessible to the wider Sinhalese population. During this time the first riot in modern Sri Lankan history broke out in 1883, between Buddhists and Catholics, highlighting the \"growing religious divide between the two communities\".\n\nThe central figure in the formation of modern Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism was the Buddhist revivalist Anagarika Dharmapala (1864–1933), who has been described as \"the father of modern Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism\". Dharmapala was hostile to all things un-Sinhalese and non-Buddhist. He insisted that the Sinhalese were racially pure and superior Aryans while the Dravidian Tamils were inferior. He popularized the impression that Tamils and Sinhalese had been deadly enemies in Sri Lanka for nearly 2,000 years by quoting the Mahavamsa passages that depicted Tamils as pagan invaders. He characterized the Tamils as \"fiercely antagonistic to Buddhism\". He also expressed intolerance toward the island's Muslim minorities and other religions in general. Dharmapala also fostered Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism in the spirit of the King Dutthagamani who \"rescued Buddhism and our nationalism from oblivion\" and stated explicitly that the Island belongs to the Sinhalese Buddhists. Dharmapala has been blamed for laying the groundwork for subsequent Sinhalese Buddhists nationalists to create an ethnocentric state and for hostility to be directed against minorities unwilling to accept such a state.\n\nUpon independence Sinhalese Buddhist elites instituted discriminatory policies based on the Buddhist ethno-nationalist ideology of the Mahavamsa that privileges Sinhalese Buddhist hegemony in the island as Buddha's chosen people for whom the island is a promised land and justifies subjugation of minorities. Sinhalese Buddhist officials saw that decreasing Tamil influence was a necessary part of fostering Buddhist cultural renaissance. The Dutthagamani myth was also used to institute Sinhalese Buddhist domination with some politicians even identifying with such a mytho-historic hero and activist monks looked to Dutthagamani as an example to imitate. This principal hero of Mahavamsa became widely regarded as exemplary by the 20th century Sinhalese Buddhist nationalists because of his defense of Buddhism and the unification of Sri Lanka that journalists started talking about \"the Mahavamsa mentality\".\n\nD. S. Senanayake, who would become Sri Lanka's first prime minister in 1947, reaffirmed in 1939 the common Mahavamsa-based assumption of the Sinhalese Buddhist responsibility for the island's destiny by proclaiming that the Sinhalese Buddhists \"are one blood and one nation. We are a chosen people. Buddha said that his religion would last for 5,500 [sic] years. That means that we, as the custodians of that religion, shall last as long.\" Buddhists monks became increasingly involved in post-independence politics, promoting Sinhalese Buddhist interests, at the expense of minorities. Walpola Rahula, Sri Lanka's foremost Buddhist monk scholar and one of the leading proponents of Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism, played a major role in advocating for the involvement of monks in politics, using Buddhist king Dutthagamani's relationship with the sangha to bolster his position. Rahula also argued for a just war doctrine to protect Buddhism by using the example of wars waged by Dutthagamani to restore Buddhism. Rahula maintained that \"the entire Sinhalese race was united under the banner of the young Gamini [Dutthagamani]. This was the beginning of nationalism among the Sinhalese. It was a new race with healthy young blood, organized under the new order of Buddhism. A kind of religionationalism, which almost amounted to fanaticism, roused the whole Sinhalese people. A non-Buddhist was not regarded as a human being. Evidently all Sinhalese without exception were Buddhists.\" In reflecting on Rahula's works, anthropologist H.L. Seneviratne writes that, \"it suits Rahula to be an advocate of a Buddhism that glorifies social intercourse with lay society ... the receipt of salaries and other forms of material remuneration; ethnic exclusivism and Sinhala Buddhist hegemony; militancy in politics; and violence, war and the spilling of blood in the name of \"preserving the religion\"\".\n\nIn 1956, the All Ceylon Buddhist Congress (ACBC) released a report titled, \"The Betrayal of Buddhism\", inquiring into the status of Buddhism in the island. The report argued that Buddhism had been weakened by external threats such as the Tamil invaders mentioned in the Mahavamsa and later Western colonial powers. It also demanded the state to restore and foster Buddhism and to give preferential treatment to Buddhist schools. The same year, S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike capitalized on the ACBC report and its recommendations as the foundation for his election campaign, using it as the 'blueprint for a broad spectrum of policy', which included introducing Sinhala as the sole official language of the state. With the help of significant number of Buddhist monks and various Sinhalese Buddhist organizations, Bandaranaike became prime minister after winning the 1956 elections. Bandaranaike had also campaigned on the basis of Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism, drawing influences from the writings of Dharmapala and the Mahavamsa, arguing that it was the duty of the government to preserve the Sinhalese Buddhist nature of the island's destiny. Once in power, Bandaranaike implemented the 1956 Sinhala Only Act, which would make Sinhala the country's official language and hence all official state transactions would be conducted in Sinhala. This put non-Sinhala speakers at a disadvantage for employment and educational opportunities. As a result, Tamils protested the policy by staging sit-ins, which in turn prompted counterdemonstrations by Buddhist monks, later degenerating into anti-Tamil riots in which more than one hundred people were injured and Tamil businesses were looted. Riots then spread throughout the country killing hundreds of people. Bandaranaike tried to mitigate tensions over the language policy by proposing a compromise with the Tamil leaders, resulting in a 1957 pact that would allow the use of Tamil as an administrative language along with Sinhala and greater political autonomy for Tamils. Buddhist monks and other Sinhalese nationalists opposed this pact by staging mass demonstrations and hunger strikes. In an editorial in the same year, a monk asks Bandaranaike to read Mahavamsa and to heed its lessons: \"[Dutthagamani] conquered by the sword and united the land [Sri Lanka] without dividing it among our enemies [i.e. the Tamils] and established Sinhala and Buddhism as the state language and religion.\" In the late 1950s, it had become common for politicians and monks to exploit the Mahavamsa narrative of Dutthagamani to oppose any concession to the Tamil minorities.\n\nWith Buddhist monks playing a major role in exerting pressure to abrogate the pact, Bandaranaike acceded to their demands in April 9, 1958 by tearing up \"a copy of the pact in front of the assembled monks who clapped in joy\". Soon after the pact was abrogated, another series of anti-Tamil riots spread throughout the country, which left hundreds dead and thousands displaced. Preceding the 1958 riots, rhetoric of monks contributed to the perception of Tamils being the enemies of the country and of Buddhism. Both Buddhist monks and laity laid the foundation for the justifiable use of force against Tamils in response to their demand for greater autonomy by arguing that the whole of Sri Lanka was a promised land of the Sinhalese Buddhists and it was the role of the monks to defend a united Sri Lanka. Tamils were also portrayed as threatening interlopers, compared to the Mahavamsa account of the usurper Tamil king Elara. Monks and politicians invoked the story of the Buddhist warrior king Dutthagamani to urge the Sinhalese to fight against Tamils and their claims to the island, thereby providing justification for violence against Tamils. As Tessa J. Bartholomeusz explains: \"Tamil claims to a homeland were met with an ideology, linked to a Buddhist story, that legitimated war with just cause: the protection of Sri Lanka for the Sinhala-Buddhist people.\" In order to appease Tamils amidst the ethnic tension, Bandaranaike modified the Sinhala Only Act to allow Tamil to be used in education and government in Tamil areas and as a result a, Buddhist monk named Talduwe Somarama assassinated him on September 26, 1959. The monk claimed he carried out the assassination \"for the greater good of his country, race and religion\". It has also been suggested that the monk was guided in part by reading of the Mahavamsa.\n\nSuccessive governments after Bandaranaike implemented similar Sinhalese Buddhist nationalist agenda, at the expense of minorities. In 1972, the government rewrote its constitution and gave Buddhism \"the foremost place [in the Republic of Sri Lanka]\" and making it \"the duty of the state to protect and foster Buddhism\". With another pact in 1965 that sought to establish greater regional autonomy for Tamils being abrogated (some members of the Buddhist clergy were at the forefront in opposing the pact) and the implementation of discriminatory quota system in 1974 that severely restricted Tamil entrance to universities, Tamil youth became radicalized, calling for an independent homeland to be established in the Tamil-dominated northeastern region of the island. In 1977, anti-Tamil riots spread throughout the country, killing hundreds of Tamils and leaving thousands homeless. A leading monk claimed that one of the reasons for the anti-Tamil riots of 1977 was the Tamil demonization of the Sinhalese Buddhist epic hero Dutthagamani, which resulted in a justified retaliation. Another anti-Tamil riot erupted in 1981 in Jaffna, where Sinhalese police and paramilitaries destroyed statues of Tamil cultural and religious figures; looted and torched a Hindu temple and Tamil-owned shops and homes; killed four Tamils; and torched the Jaffna Public Library which was of great cultural significance to Tamils. In response to the militant separatist Tamil group LTTE killing 13 Sinhalese soldiers, the largest anti-Tamil pogrom occurred in 1983, leaving between 2,000 and 3,000 of Tamils killed and forcing from 70,000 to 100,000 Tamils into refugee camps, eventually propelling the country into a civil war between the LTTE and the predominately Sinhalese Buddhist Sri Lankan government. In the 1983 anti-Tamil pogrom, Buddhist monks lead rioters in some instance. Cyril Mathew, a Senior Minister in President Jayawardene's Cabinet and a Sinhalese Buddhist nationalist who in the year preceding the pogrom reaffirmed the special relationship between Buddhism and Sinhalese and the Buddhist nature of the country, was also responsible for the pogrom. In the months following the anti-Tamil pogrom, authorizations for violence against Tamils began to appear in the press, with Tamils being depicted as interlopers on Dhammadipa. The Mahavamsa narrative of Dutthagamani and Elara was also invoked to justify violence against Tamils. The aftermath of the pogrom spawned debates over the rights to the island with the \"sons of the soil\" ideology being called into prominence. A government agent declared that Sri Lanka's manifest destiny \"was to uphold the pristine doctrine of Theravada Buddhism\". This implied that Sinhalese Buddhists had a sacred claim to Sri Lanka, while the Tamils did not, a claim which might call for violence. The Sinhalese Buddhists, including the Sri Lankan government, resisted the Tamil claim to a separate homeland of their own as the Sinhalese Buddhists maintained that the entire country belonged to them. Another government agent linked the then Prime Minister Jayewardene's attempts to thwart the emergence of a Tamil homeland to Dutthagamani's victory over Elara and went on to say, \"[w]e will never allow the country to be divided,\" thereby justifying violence against Tamils.\n\nIn the context of increasing Tamil militant struggle for separatism, militant Buddhist monks founded the Mavbima Surakime Vyaparaya (MSV) or \"Movement for the Protection of the Motherland\" in 1986 which sought to work with political parties \"to maintain territorial unity of Sri Lanka and Sinhalese Buddhist sovereignty over the island\". The MSV used the Mahavamsa to justify its goals, which included the usage of force to fight against the Tamil threat and defend the Buddhist state. In 1987, along with the MSV, the JVP (a militant Sinhalese nationalist group which included monks) took up arms to protest the signing of the Indo-Sri Lanka Accord which sought to establish peace in Sri Lanka by requiring the Sri Lankan government to make a number of concessions to Tamil demands, including devolution of power to Tamil provinces. The JVP, with the support of the Sangha, launched a campaign of violent insurrection against the government to oppose the accord as the Sinhalese nationalists believed it would compromise the sovereignty of Sri Lanka.\n\nFrom the beginning of the civil war in 1983 to the end of it in 2009, Buddhist monks were involved in politics and opposed negotiations, ceasefire agreements, or any devolution of power to Tamil minorities, and most supported military solution to the conflict. This has led to Asanga Tilakaratne, head of the Department of Buddhist Philosophy in the Postgraduate Institute of Pali and Buddhist Studies in Colombo, to remark that \"the Sinhala Buddhist nationalists are ... opposed to any attempt to solve the ethnic problem by peaceful means; and they call for a 'holy war' against Tamils\". It has been argued that the absence of opportunities for power sharing among the different ethnic groups in the island \"has been one of the primary factors behind the intensification of the conflict\". Numerous Buddhist religious leaders and Buddhist organizations since the country's independence have played a role in mobilizing against the devolution of power to the Tamils. Leading Buddhist monks opposed devolution of power that would grant regional autonomy to Tamils on the basis of Mahavamsa worldview that the entire country is a Buddhist promised land which belongs to the Sinhalese Buddhist people, along with the fear that devolution would eventually lead to separate country.\n\nThe two major contemporary political parties to advocate for Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism are The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) and the Jathika Hela Urumaya (JHU) or \"National Heritage Party\", the latter of which is composed solely of Buddhist monks. According to A. R. M. Imtiyaz, these groups share common goals: \"to uphold Buddhism and establish a link between the state and religion, and to advocate a violent solution to the Tamil question and oppose all form of devolution to the minorities, particularly the Tamils\". The JHU, in shunning non-violent solutions to the ethnic conflict, urged young Sinhalese Buddhists to sign up for the army, with as many as 30,000 Sinhalese young men doing just that. One JHU leader even declared that NGOs and certain government servants were traitors and they should be set on fire and burnt due to their opposition to a military solution to the civil war. The international community encouraged a federal structure for Sri Lanka as a peaceful solution to the civil war but any form of Tamil self-determination, even the more limited measure of autonomy, was strongly opposed by hard-line Sinhalese Buddhist nationalist groups such as the JVP and JHU, who pushed for the military solution. These groups in their hard-line support for a military solution to the conflict, without any regard for the plight of innocent Tamil civilians, have opposed negotiated settlement, ceasefire agreement, demanded that the Norwegians be removed as peace facilitators, demanded the war to be prosecuted more forcefully and exerted influence in the Rajapaksa government (which they helped to elect), resulting in the brutal military defeat of the LTTE with heavy civilian casualties. The nationalist monks' support of the government's military offense against the LTTE gave \"religious legitimacy to the state's claim of protecting the island for the Sinhalese Buddhist majority.\" President Rajapaksa, in his war against the LTTE, has been compared to the Buddhist king Dutthagamani by the Sinhalese Buddhist nationalists.\n\nOther minority groups have also come under attack by Sinhalese Buddhist nationalists. Fear of country's Buddhist hegemony being challenged by Christian proselytism has driven Buddhist monks and organizations to demonize Christian organizations with one popular monk comparing missionary activity to terrorism; as a result, Sinhalese Buddhist nationalists, including the JVP and JHU, who oppose attempts to convert Buddhists to another religion, support or conduct anti-Christian violence. The number of attacks against Christian churches rose from 14 in 2000 to over 100 in 2003. Dozens of these acts were confirmed by U.S. diplomatic observers. This anti-Christian violence was led by extremist Buddhist clergy and has included acts of \"beatings, arson, acts of sacrilege, death threats, violent disruption of worship, stoning, abuse, unlawful restraint, and even interference with funerals\". It has been noted that the strongest anti-West sentiments accompany the anti-Christian violence since the Sinhalese Buddhist nationalists identify Christianity with the West which they think is conspiring to undermine Buddhism.It has been noted that the strongest anti-West sentiments accompany the anti-Christian violence since the Sinhalese Buddhist nationalists identify Christianity with the West which they think is conspiring to undermine Buddhism.\n\nIn the postwar Sri Lanka, ethnic and religious minorities continue face threat from Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism. There have been continued sporadic attacks on Christian churches by Buddhist extremists who allege Christians of conducting unethical or forced conversion. The Pew Research Center has listed Sri Lanka among the countries with very high religious hostilities in 2012 due to the violence committed by Buddhist monks against Muslim and Christian places of worship.These acts included attacking a mosque and forcefully taking over a Seventh-day advent church and converting it into a Buddhist temple. \n\nExtremist Buddhist leaders justify their attacks on the places of worship of minorities by arguing that Sri Lanka is the promised land of the Sinhalese Buddhists to safeguard Buddhism. The recently formed Buddhist extremist group, the Bodu Bala Sena (BBS), or Buddhist Power Force, founded by Buddhist monks in 2012, has been accused of inciting the anti-Muslim riots that killed 4 Muslims and injured 80 in 2014. The leader of the BBS, in linking the government's military victory over the LTTE to the ancient Buddhist king conquest of Tamil king Elara, said that Tamils have been taught a lesson twice and warned other minorities of the same fate if they tried to challenge Sinhalese Buddhist culture. The BBS has been compared to the Taliban, accused of spreading extremism and communal hatred against Muslims and has been described as an \"ethno-religious fascist movement\". Buddhist monks have also protested against UN Human Rights Council resolution that called for an inquiry into humanitarian abuses and possible war crimes during the civil war. The BBS has received criticism and oppostition from other Buddhist clergy and politicians. Mangala Samaraweera, a Sri Lankan Theravada Buddhist politician who has served as Minister of Foreign Affairs since 2015, has accused the BBS of being \"a representation of ‘Taliban’ terrorism’\" and of spreading extremism and communal hatred against Muslims. Samaraweera has also alleged that the BBS is secretly funded by the Ministry of Defence. Anunayake Bellanwila Wimalaratana, deputy incumbent of Bellanwila Rajamaha Viharaya and President of the Bellanwila Community Development Foundation, has stated that \"The views of the Bodu Bala Sena are not the views of the entire Sangha community\" and that \"We don’t use our fists to solve problems, we use our brains\". Wataraka Vijitha Thero, a buddhist monk who condemns violence against Muslims and heavily criticized the BBS and the government, has been attacked and tortured for his stances.\n\nSinhala Buddhist Nationalism is opposed to Sarvodaya, although they share many of the same influences like Dharmapāla's teachings for example, by having a focus upon Sinhalese culture and ethnicity sanctioning the use of violence in defence of dhamma, while Sarvodaya has emphasized the application of Buddhist values in order to transform society and campaigning for peace.\n\nThese Buddhist nationalists have been opposed by the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement, a self-governance movement led by the Buddhist Dr. A. T. Ariyaratne and based in Buddhist ideals, who condemn the use of violence and the denial of Human rights to Tamils and other non-Buddhists. Ariyaratne calls for non-violent action and he has been actively working for peace in Sri Lanka for many decades, and has stated that the only way to peace is through \"the dispelling of the view of 'I and mine' or the shedding of 'self' and the realization of the true doctrines of the interconnection between all animal species and the unity of all humanity,\" thus advocating social action in Buddhist terms. He stated in one of his lectures, \"When we work towards the welfare of all the means we use have to be based on Truth, Non-violence and Selflessness in conformity with Awakening of All\". What Ariyaratne advocates is losing the self in the service of others and attempting to bring others to awakening. Ariyaratne has stated, \"I cannot awaken myself unless I help awaken others\".\n\nThe beginning of \"Buddhist violence\" in Japan relates to a long history of feuds among Buddhists. The sōhei or \"warrior monks\" appeared during the Heian period, although the seeming contradiction in being a Buddhist \"warrior monk\" caused controversy even at the time. More directly linked is that the Ikkō-shū movement was considered an inspiration to Buddhists in the Ikkō-ikki rebellion. In Osaka they defended their temple with the slogan \"The mercy of Buddha should be recompensed even by pounding flesh to pieces. One's obligation to the Teacher should be recompensed even by smashing bones to bits!\"\n\nDuring World War II, Japanese Buddhist literature from that time, as part of its support of the Japanese war effort, stated \"In order to establish eternal peace in East Asia, arousing the great benevolence and compassion of Buddhism, we are sometimes accepting and sometimes forceful. We now have no choice but to exercise the benevolent forcefulness of 'killing one in order that many may live' (issatsu tashō). This is something which Mahayana Buddhism approves of only with the greatest of seriousness...\" Almost all Japanese Buddhists temples strongly supported Japan's militarization. These were heavily criticized by the Chinese Buddhists of the era, who disputed the validity of the statements made by those Japanese Buddhist supporters of the war. In response the Japanese Pan-Buddhist Society (Myowa Kai) rejected the criticism and stated that \"We now have no choice but to exercise the benevolent forcefulness of 'killing one in order that many may live' (issatsu tashō)\" and that the war was absolutely necessary to implement the dharma in Asia. The society re-examined more than 70 texts written by Nichiren and re-edited his writings, making changes in 208 places, cutting all the statements that disagreed with the state Shinto. In contrast, a few Japanese Buddhists such as Ichikawa Haku and Seno’o Girō opposed this and were targeted. During the 1940s, \"leaders of the Honmon Hokkeshu and Soka Kyoiku Gakkai were imprisoned for their defiance of wartime government religious policy, which mandated display of reverence for the state Shinto\".\nBrian Daizen Victoria, a Buddhist priest in the Sōtō Zen sect, documented in his book \"Zen at War\" how Buddhist institutions justified Japanese militarism in official publications and cooperated with the Imperial Japanese Army in the Russo-Japanese War and World War II. In response to the book, several sects issued an apology for their wartime support of the government.\n\nIn more modern times instances of Buddhist-inspired terrorism or militarism have occurred in Japan, such as the assassinations of the League of Blood Incident led by Nissho Inoue, a Nichirenist or fascist-nationalist who preached a self-styled Nichiren Buddhism.\n\nAum Shinrikyo, the Japanese new religion and doomsday cult that was the cause of the Tokyo subway sarin attack that killed thirteen people and injured more than a thousand, drew upon a syncretic view of idiosyncratic interpretations of elements of early Indian Buddhism, Tibetan Buddhism and Hinduism, taking Shiva as the main image of worship, Christian millennialist ideas from the Book of Revelation, Yoga and the writings of Nostradamus. Its founder, Chizuo Matsumoto, claimed that he sought to restore \"original Buddhism\" and declared himself \"Christ\", Japan's only fully enlightened master and identified with the \"Lamb of God\". His purported mission was to take upon himself the sins of the world, and he claimed he could transfer to his followers spiritual power and ultimately take away their sins and bad deeds. While many discount Aum Shinrikyo's Buddhist characteristics and affiliation to Buddhism, scholars often refer to it as an offshoot of Japanese Buddhism, and this was how the movement generally defined and saw itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33931676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33931676", "title": "Druid", "text": "Druid\n\nA druid (; ; ) was a member of the high-ranking professional class in ancient Celtic cultures. While perhaps best remembered as religious leaders, they were also legal authorities, adjudicators, lorekeepers, medical professionals, and political advisors. While the druids are reported to have been literate, they are believed to have been prevented by doctrine from recording their knowledge in written form, thus they left no written accounts of themselves. They are however attested in some detail by their contemporaries from other cultures, such as the Romans and the Greeks.\n\nThe earliest known references to the druids date to the fourth century BCE and the oldest detailed description comes from Julius Caesar's \"Commentarii de Bello Gallico\" (50s BCE). They were also described by later Greco-Roman writers such as Cicero, Tacitus, and Pliny the Elder. Following the Roman invasion of Gaul, the druid orders were suppressed by the Roman government under the 1st century CE emperors Tiberius and Claudius, and had disappeared from the written record by the 2nd century.\n\nIn about 750 CE the word \"druid\" appears in a poem by Blathmac, who wrote about Jesus, saying that he was \"... better than a prophet, more knowledgeable than every druid, a king who was a bishop and a complete sage.\" The druids then also appear in some of the medieval tales from Christianized Ireland like the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\", where they are largely portrayed as sorcerers who opposed the coming of Christianity. In the wake of the Celtic revival during the 18th and 19th centuries, fraternal and neopagan groups were founded based on ideas about the ancient druids, a movement known as Neo-Druidism. Many popular notions about druids, based on misconceptions of 18th century scholars, have been largely superseded by more recent study.\n\nThe modern English word \"druid\" derives from the Latin \"druidēs\" (plural), which was considered by ancient Roman writers to come from the native Celtic Gaulish word for these figures. Other Roman texts also employ the form \"druidae\", while the same term was used by Greek ethnographers as (\"druidēs\"). Although no extant Romano-Celtic inscription is known to contain the form, the word is cognate with the later insular Celtic words, Old Irish \"druí\" ‘druid, sorcerer’, Old Cornish \"druw\", Middle Welsh \"dryw\" ‘seer; wren’. Based on all available forms, the hypothetical proto-Celtic word may then be reconstructed as *\"dru-wid-s\" (pl. *\"druwides\") meaning \"oak-knower\". The two elements go back to the Proto-Indo-European roots \"*deru-\" and \"*weid-\" \"to see\". The sense of \"oak-knower\" or \"oak-seer\" is supported by Pliny the Elder, who in his \"Natural History\" considered the word to contain the Greek noun \"drýs\" (δρύς), \"oak-tree\" and the Greek suffix \"-idēs\" (-ιδης). Both Old Irish \"druí\" and Middle Welsh \"dryw\" could also refer to the wren, possibly connected with an association of that bird with augury in Irish and Welsh tradition (see also Wren Day).\n\nSources by ancient and medieval writers provide an idea of the religious duties and social roles involved in being a druid.\n\nThe Greco-Roman and the vernacular Irish sources agree that the druids played an important part in pagan Celtic society. In his description, Julius Caesar claimed that they were one of the two most important social groups in the region (alongside the \"equites\", or nobles) and were responsible for organizing worship and sacrifices, divination, and judicial procedure in Gaulish, British, and Irish societies. He also claimed that they were exempt from military service and from the payment of taxes, and had the power to excommunicate people from religious festivals, making them social outcasts. Two other classical writers, Diodorus Siculus and Strabo, also wrote about the role of druids in Gallic society, claiming that the druids were held in such respect that if they intervened between two armies they could stop the battle.\n\nPomponius Mela is the first author who says that the druids' instruction was secret and took place in caves and forests.\n\nDruidic lore consisted of a large number of verses learned by heart, and Caesar remarked that it could take up to twenty years to complete the course of study. What was taught to druid novices anywhere is conjecture: of the druids' oral literature, not one certifiably ancient verse is known to have survived, even in translation. All instruction was communicated orally, but for ordinary purposes, Caesar reports, the Gauls had a written language in which they used Greek characters. In this he probably draws on earlier writers; by the time of Caesar, Gaulish inscriptions had moved from the Greek script to the Latin script.\n\nGreek and Roman writers frequently made reference to the druids as practitioners of human sacrifice. According to Caesar, those who had been found guilty of theft or other criminal offences were considered preferable for use as sacrificial victims, but when criminals were in short supply, innocents would be acceptable. A form of sacrifice recorded by Caesar was the burning alive of victims in a large wooden effigy, now often known as a wicker man. A differing account came from the 10th-century \"Commenta Bernensia\", which claimed that sacrifices to the deities Teutates, Esus and Taranis were by drowning, hanging and burning, respectively (see threefold death).\n\nDiodorus Siculus asserts that a sacrifice acceptable to the Celtic gods had to be attended by a druid, for they were the intermediaries between the people and the divinities. He remarked upon the importance of prophets in druidic ritual:\n\nThere is archaeological evidence from western Europe that has been widely used to back up the idea that human sacrifice was performed by the Iron Age Celts.\nMass graves found in a ritual context dating from this period have been unearthed in Gaul, at both Gournay-sur-Aronde and Ribemont-sur-Ancre in what was the region of the Belgae chiefdom. The excavator of these sites, Jean-Louis Brunaux, interpreted them as areas of human sacrifice in devotion to a war god, although this view was criticized by another archaeologist, Martin Brown, who believed that the corpses might be those of honoured warriors buried in the sanctuary rather than sacrifices.\nSome historians have questioned whether the Greco-Roman writers were accurate in their claims. J. Rives remarked that it was \"ambiguous\" whether the druids ever performed such sacrifices, for the Romans and Greeks were known to project what they saw as barbarian traits onto foreign peoples including not only druids but Jews and Christians as well, thereby confirming their own \"cultural superiority\" in their own minds.\n\nNora Chadwick, an expert in medieval Welsh and Irish literature who believed the druids to be great philosophers, has also supported the idea that they had not been involved in human sacrifice, and that such accusations were imperialist Roman propaganda.\n\nAlexander Cornelius Polyhistor referred to the druids as philosophers and called their doctrine of the immortality of the soul and reincarnation or metempsychosis \"Pythagorean\":\n\nCaesar made similar observations: \n\nDiodorus Siculus, writing in 36 BCE, described how the druids followed \"the Pythagorean doctrine\", that human souls \"are immortal and after a prescribed number of years they commence a new life in a new body.\" In 1928, folklorist Donald A. Mackenzie speculated that Buddhist missionaries had been sent by the Indian king Ashoka. Others have invoked common Indo-European parallels. Caesar noted the druidic doctrine of the original ancestor of the tribe, whom he referred to as \" Dispater,\" or \"Father Hades.\"\n\nDruids also play a prominent role in Irish Folklore, generally serving lords and kings as high ranking priest-counselors with the gift of prophecy and other assorted mystical abilities - the best example of these possibly being Cathbad. The chief druid in the court of King Conchobar mac Nessa of Ulster, Cathbad features in several tales, most of which detail his ability to foretell the future. In the tale of Deirdre of the Sorrows – the foremost tragic heroine of the Ulster Cycle – the druid prophesied before the court of Conchobar that Deirdre would grow up to be very beautiful, but that kings and lords would go to war over her, much blood would be shed because of her, and Ulster's three greatest warriors would be forced into exile for her sake. This prophecy, ignored by the king, came true.\n\nArguably the greatest of these mythological druids was Amergin Glúingel, a bard and judge for the Milesians featured in the Mythological Cycle. The Milesians were seeking to overrun the Tuatha De Danann and win the land of Ireland but, as they approached, the druids of the Tuatha Dé Danann raised a magical storm to bar their ships from making landfall. Thus Amergin called upon the spirit of Ireland itself, chanting a powerful incantation that has come to be known as \"The Song of Amergin\" and, eventually (after successfully making landfall), aiding and dividing the land between his royal brothers in the conquest of Ireland, earning the title Chief Ollam of Ireland.\n\nOther such mythological druids were Tadg mac Nuadat of the Fenian Cycle, and Mug Ruith, a powerful blind druid of Munster.\n\nIrish mythology has a number of female druids as well, often sharing similar prominent cultural and religious roles with their male counterparts. The Irish have several words for female druids, such as \"bandruí\" (\"woman-druid\"), found in tales such as the Táin Bó Cúailnge; Bodhmall, featured in the Fenian Cycle, and one of Fionn mac Cumhaill's childhood caretakers; and Tlachtga, the daughter of the druid Mug Ruith who, according to Irish tradition, is associated with the Hill of Ward, site of prominent festivals held in Tlachtga's honour during the Middle Ages.\n\nBiróg, another \"bandrúi\" of the Tuatha De Danann, plays a key role in an Irish folktale where the Fomorian warrior Balor attempts to thwart a prophecy foretelling that he would be killed by his own grandson by imprisoning his only daughter Eithne in the tower of Tory Island, away from any contact with men. Bé Chuille – daughter of the woodland goddess Flidais and sometimes described as a sorceress rather than a bandruí – features in a tale from the Metrical Dindshenchas where she joins three other of the Tuatha Dé to defeat the evil Greek witch Carman. Other bandrúi include Relbeo, a Nemedian druid who appears in The Book of Invasions, where she is described as the daughter of the King of Greece and mother of Fergus Lethderg and Alma One-Tooth. Dornoll was a bandrúi in Scotland, who normally trained heroes in warfare, particularly Laegaire and Conall; she was the Daughter of Domnall Mildemail.\n\nAccording to classical authors, the Gallizenae (or Gallisenae) were virgin priestesses of the Île de Sein off Pointe du Raz, Finistère, western Brittany. Their existence was first mentioned by the Greek geographer Artemidorus Ephesius and later by the Greek historian Strabo, who wrote that their island was forbidden to men, but the women came to the mainland to meet their husbands. Which deities they honored is unknown. According to Pomponius Mela, the Gallizenae acted as both councilors and practitioners of the healing arts:\n\n\"Sena, in the Britannic Sea, opposite the coast of the Osismi, is famous for its oracle of a Gaulish god, whose priestesses, living in the holiness of perpetual virginity, are said to be nine in number. They call them Gallizenae, and they believe them to be endowed with extraordinary gifts to rouse the sea and the wind by their incantations, to turn themselves into whatsoever animal form they may choose, to cure diseases which among others are incurable, to know what is to come and to foretell it. They are, however; devoted to the service of voyagers only who have set out on no other errand than to consult them.\"\n\nThe earliest surviving literary evidence of the druids emerges from the classical world of Greece and Rome. The archaeologist Stuart Piggott compared the attitude of the Classical authors towards the druids as being similar to the relationship that had existed in the 15th and 18th centuries between Europeans and the societies that they were just encountering in other parts of the world, such as the Americas and the South Sea Islands. In doing so, he highlighted that both the attitude of the Early Modern Europeans and the Classical authors was that of \"primitivism\", viewing these newly encountered societies as primitive because of their lesser technological development and perceived backwardness in socio-political development.\n\nThe historian Nora Chadwick, in a categorization subsequently adopted by Piggott, divided the Classical accounts of the druids into two groups, distinguished by their approach to the subject as well as their chronological contexts. She refers to the first of these groups as the \"Posidonian\" tradition after one of its primary exponents, Posidonious, and notes that it takes a largely critical attitude towards the Iron Age societies of Western Europe that emphasizes their \"barbaric\" qualities. The second of these two groups is termed the \"Alexandrian\" group, being centred on the scholastic traditions of Alexandria in Egypt; she notes that it took a more sympathetic and idealized attitude towards these foreign peoples. Piggott drew parallels between this categorisation and the ideas of \"hard primitivism\" and \"soft primitivism\" identified by historians of ideas A.O. Lovejoy and Franz Boas.\n\nOne school of thought within historical scholarship has suggested that all of these accounts are inherently unreliable, and might be entirely fictional. They have suggested that the idea of the druid might have been a fiction created by Classical writers to reinforce the idea of the barbaric \"other\" who existed beyond the civilized Greco-Roman world, thereby legitimising the expansion of the Roman Empire into these areas.\n\nThe earliest record of the druids comes from two Greek texts of c. 300 BCE: one, a history of philosophy written by Sotion of Alexandria, and the other a study of magic widely attributed to Aristotle. Both texts are now lost, but were quoted in the 2nd century CE work \"Vitae\" by Diogenes Laertius.\n\nSubsequent Greek and Roman texts from the third century BCE refer to \"barbarian philosophers\", possibly in reference to the Gaulish druids.\n\nThe earliest extant text that describes the druids in detail is Julius Caesar's \"Commentarii de Bello Gallico\", book VI, written in the 50s or 40s BCE. A military general who was intent on conquering Gaul and Britain, Caesar described the druids as being concerned with \"divine worship, the due performance of sacrifices, private or public, and the interpretation of ritual questions.\" He claimed that they played an important part in Gaulish society, being one of the two respected classes along with the \"equites\" (in Rome the name for members of a privileged class above the common people, but also \"horsemen\") and that they performed the function of judges. He claimed that they recognized the authority of a single leader, who would rule until his death, when a successor would be chosen by vote or through conflict. He also remarked that they met annually at a sacred place in the region occupied by the Carnute tribe in Gaul, while they viewed Britain as the centre of druidic study; and that they were not found amongst the German tribes to the east of the Rhine. According to Caesar, many young men were trained to be druids, during which time they had to learn all the associated lore by heart. He also claimed their main teaching was \"the souls do not perish, but after death pass from one to another\". They were also concerned with \"the stars and their movements, the size of the cosmos and the earth, the world of nature, and the power and might of the immortal gods\", indicating they were involved with not only such common aspects of religion as theology and cosmology, but also astronomy. Caesar also held that they were \"administrators\" during rituals of human sacrifice, for which criminals were usually used, and that the method was through burning in a wicker man.\n\nAlthough he had first-hand experience of Gaulish people, and therefore likely with druids, Caesar's account has been widely criticized by modern historians as inaccurate. One issue raised by such historians as Fustel de Coulanges was that while Caesar described the druids as a significant power within Gaulish society, he did not mention them even once in his accounts of his Gaulish conquests. Nor did Aulus Hirtius, who continued Caesar's account of the Gallic Wars following Caesar's death. Hutton believed that Caesar had manipulated the idea of the druids so they would appear both civilized (being learned and pious) and barbaric (performing human sacrifice) to Roman readers, thereby representing both \"a society worth including in the Roman Empire\" and one that required civilizing with Roman rule and values, thus justifying his wars of conquest. Sean Dunham suggested that Caesar had simply taken the Roman religious functions of senators and applied them to the druids. Daphne Nash believed it \"not unlikely\" that he \"greatly exaggerates\" both the centralized system of druidic leadership and its connection to Britain.\n\nOther historians have accepted that Caesar's account might be more accurate. Norman J. DeWitt surmised that Caesar's description of the role of druids in Gaulish society may report an idealized tradition, based on the society of the 2nd century BCE, before the pan-Gallic confederation led by the Arverni was smashed in 121 BCE, followed by the invasions of Teutones and Cimbri, rather than on the demoralized and disunited Gaul of his own time. John Creighton has speculated that in Britain, the druidic social influence was already in decline by the mid-1st century BCE, in conflict with emergent new power structures embodied in paramount chieftains. Other scholars see the Roman conquest itself as the main reason for the decline of the druid orders. Archaeologist Miranda Aldhouse-Green (2010) asserted that Caesar offered both “our richest textual source” regarding the druids, and “one of the most reliable.” She defended the accuracy of his accounts by highlighting that while he may have embellished some of his accounts to justify Roman imperial conquest, it was “inherently unlikely” that he constructed a fictional class system for Gaul and Britain, particularly considering that he was accompanied by a number of other Roman senators who would have also been sending reports on the conquest to Rome, and who would have challenged his inclusion of serious falsifications.\n\nOther classical writers also commented on the druids and their practices. Caesar's contemporary, Marcus Tullius Cicero, noted that he had met a Gallic druid, Divitiacus, who was a member of the Aedui tribe. Divitiacus supposedly knew much about the natural world and performed divination through augury. Whether Diviaticus was genuinely a druid can however be disputed, for Caesar also knew this figure, and also wrote about him, calling him by the more Gaulish-sounding (and thereby presumably the more authentic) Diviciacus, but never referred to him as a druid and indeed presented him as a political and military leader.\n\nAnother classical writer to take up describing the druids not too long after was Diodorus Siculus, who published this description in his \"Bibliotheca historicae\" in 36 BCE. Alongside the druids, or as he called them, \"drouidas\", whom he viewed as philosophers and theologians, he also remarked how there were poets and singers in Celtic society whom he called \"bardous\", or bards. Such an idea was expanded on by Strabo, writing in the 20s CE, who declared that amongst the Gauls, there were three types of honoured figures: the poets and singers known as \"bardoi\", the diviners and specialists in the natural world known as \"o'vateis\", and those who studied \"moral philosophy\", the \"druidai\". \nThe Roman writer Tacitus, himself a senator and a historian, described how when the Roman army, led by Suetonius Paulinus, attacked the island of Mona (Anglesey, \"Ynys Môn\" in Welsh), the legionaries were awestruck on landing by the appearance of a band of druids, who, with hands uplifted to the sky, poured forth terrible imprecations on the heads of the invaders. He states that these \"terrified our soldiers who had never seen such a thing before...\" The courage of the Romans, however, soon overcame such fears, according to the Roman historian; the Britons were put to flight, and the sacred groves of Mona were cut down. Tacitus is also the only primary source that gives accounts of druids in Britain, but maintains a hostile point of view, seeing them as ignorant savages.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, after Ireland and Wales were Christianized, druids appeared in a number of written sources, mainly tales and stories such as the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\", but also in the hagiographies of various saints. These were all written by Christian monks.\n\nIn Irish-language literature, the druids — \"draoithe\", plural of \"draoi\"— are sorcerers with supernatural powers, who are respected in society, particularly for their ability to perform divination. The Dictionary of the Irish Language defines \"druí\" (which has numerous variant forms, including \"draoi\") as 'magician, wizard or diviner'. In the literature the druids cast spells and turn people into animals or stones, or curse peoples’ crops to be blighted.\n\nWhen druids are portrayed in early Irish sagas and saints' lives set in the pre-Christian past of the island, they are usually accorded high social status. The evidence of the law-texts, which were first written down in the 7th and 8th centuries, suggests that with the coming of Christianity the role of the druid in Irish society was rapidly reduced to that of a sorcerer who could be consulted to cast spells or practise healing magic and that his standing declined accordingly. According to the early legal tract \"Bretha Crólige\", the sick-maintenance due to a druid, satirist and brigand (\"díberg\") is no more than that due to a \"bóaire\" (an ordinary freeman). Another law-text, \"Uraicecht Becc\" (‘Small primer’), gives the druid a place among the \"dóer-nemed\" or professional classes which depend for their status on a patron, along with wrights, blacksmiths and entertainers, as opposed to the \"fili\", who alone enjoyed free \"nemed\"-status.\n\nWhile druids featured prominently in many medieval Irish sources, they were far rarer in their Welsh counterparts. Unlike the Irish texts, the Welsh term commonly seen as referring to the druids, \"\", was used to refer purely to prophets and not to sorcerers or pagan priests. Historian Ronald Hutton noted that there were two explanations for the use of the term in Wales: the first was that it was a survival from the pre-Christian era, when \"dryw\" had been ancient priests, while the second was that the Welsh had borrowed the term from the Irish, as had the English (who used the terms \"dry\" and \"drycraeft\" to refer to magicians and magic respectively, most probably influenced by the Irish terms.)\n\nAs the historian Jane Webster stated, \"individual druids... are unlikely to be identified archaeologically\". A.P. Fitzpatrick, in examining what he believed to be astral symbolism on Late Iron Age swords has expressed difficulties in relating any material culture, even the Coligny calendar, with druidic culture. Nonetheless, some archaeologists have attempted to link certain discoveries with written accounts of the druids. The archaeologist Anne Ross linked what she believed to be evidence of human sacrifice in Celtic pagan society—such as the Lindow Man bog body—to the Greco-Roman accounts of human sacrifice being officiated over by the druids. Miranda Aldhouse-Green, professor of archaeology at Cardiff University has noted that Suetonius's army would have passed very near the site whilst traveling to deal with Boudicca and postulates that the sacrifice may have been connected.\n\nAn excavated burial in Deal, Kent discovered the \"Deal warrior\" ~ a man buried around 200–150 BCE with a sword and shield, and wearing a unique crown, too thin to be a helmet. The crown is bronze with a broad band around the head and a thin strip crossing the top of the head. It was worn without any padding beneath, as traces of hair were left on the metal. The form of the crown is similar to that seen in images of Romano-British priests several centuries later, leading to speculation among archaeologists that the man might have been a druid.\n\nDuring the Gallic Wars of 58 to 51 BCE, the Roman army, led by Julius Caesar, conquered the many tribal chiefdoms of Gaul, and annexed it as a part of the Roman Republic. According to accounts produced in the following centuries, the new rulers of Roman Gaul subsequently introduced measures to wipe out the druids from that country. According to Pliny the Elder, writing in the 70s CE, it was the emperor Tiberius (who ruled from 14 to 37 CE), who introduced laws banning not only druid practices, but also other native soothsayers and healers, a move which Pliny applauded, believing that it would end human sacrifice in Gaul. A somewhat different account of Roman legal attacks on the druids was made by Suetonius, writing in the 2nd century CE, when he claimed that Rome's first emperor, Augustus (who had ruled from 27 BCE till 14 CE), had decreed that no-one could be both a druid and a Roman citizen, and that this was followed by a law passed by the later Emperor Claudius (who had ruled from 41 to 54 CE) which \"thoroughly suppressed\" the druids by banning their religious practices.\n\nThe best evidence of a druidic tradition in the British Isles is the independent cognate of the Celtic \"*druwid-\" in Insular Celtic: The Old Irish \"druídecht\" survives in the meaning of 'magic', and the Welsh \"dryw\" in the meaning of 'seer'.\n\nWhile the druids as a priestly caste were extinct with the Christianization of Wales, complete by the 7th century at the latest, the offices of bard and of \"seer\" () persisted in medieval Wales into the 13th century.\n\nPhillip Freeman, a classics professor, discusses a later reference to 'dryades', which he translates as 'druidesses', writing that \"The fourth century A.D. collection of imperial biographies known as the Historia Augusta contains three short passages involving Gaulish women called 'dryades' ('druidesses'). He points out that \"In all of these, the women may not be direct heirs of the druids who were supposedly extinguished by the Romans — but in any case they do show that the druidic function of prophesy continued among the natives in Roman Gaul.\" However, the Historia Augusta is frequently interpreted by scholars as a largely satirical work, and such details might have been introduced in a humorous fashion. Additionally, female druids are mentioned in later Irish mythology, including the legend of Fionn mac Cumhaill, who, according to the 12th century \"The Boyhood Deeds of Fionn\", is raised by the woman druid Bodhmall and her companion, another wise-woman.\n\nThe story of Vortigern, as reported by Nennius, provides one of the very few glimpses of possible druidic survival in Britain after the Roman conquest: unfortunately, Nennius is noted for mixing fact and legend in such a way that it is now impossible to know the truth behind his text. He wrote that after being excommunicated by Germanus, the British leader Vortigern invited twelve druids to assist him.\n\nIn the lives of saints and martyrs, the druids are represented as magicians and diviners. In Adamnan's \"vita\" of Columba, two of them act as tutors to the daughters of Lóegaire mac Néill, the High King of Ireland, at the coming of Saint Patrick. They are represented as endeavouring to prevent the progress of Patrick and Saint Columba by raising clouds and mist. Before the battle of Culdremne (561) a druid made an \"airbe drtiad\" (\"fence of protection\"?) round one of the armies, but what is precisely meant by the phrase is unclear. The Irish druids seem to have had a peculiar tonsure. The word \"druí\" is always used to render the Latin \"magus\", and in one passage St Columba speaks of Christ as his druid. Similarly, a life of St Beuno states that when he died he had a vision of 'all the saints and druids'.\n\nSulpicius Severus' \"Vita\" of Martin of Tours relates how Martin encountered a peasant funeral, carrying the body in a winding sheet, which Martin mistook for some druidic rites of sacrifice, \"because it was the custom of the Gallic rustics in their wretched folly to carry about through the fields the images of demons veiled with a white covering.\" So Martin halted the procession by raising his pectoral cross: \"Upon this, the miserable creatures might have been seen at first to become stiff like rocks. Next, as they endeavoured, with every possible effort, to move forward, but were not able to take a step farther, they began to whirl themselves about in the most ridiculous fashion, until, not able any longer to sustain the weight, they set down the dead body.\" Then discovering his error, Martin raised his hand again to let them proceed: \"Thus,\" the hagiographer points out, \"he both compelled them to stand when he pleased, and permitted them to depart when he thought good.\"\n\nFrom the 18th century, England and Wales experienced a revival of interest in the druids. John Aubrey (1626–1697) had been the first modern writer to (incorrectly) connect Stonehenge and other megalithic monuments with the druids; since Aubrey's views were confined to his notebooks, the first wide audience for this idea were readers of William Stukeley (1687–1765). It is incorrectly believed that John Toland (1670–1722) founded the Ancient Druid Order however the research of historian Ronald Hutton has revealed that the ADO was founded by George Watson MacGregor Reid in 1909. The order never used (and still does not use) the title \"ArchDruid\" for any member, but falsely credited William Blake as having been its \"Chosen Chief\" from 1799 to 1827, without corroboration in Blake's numerous writings or among modern Blake scholars. Blake's bardic mysticism derives instead from the pseudo-Ossianic epics of Macpherson; his friend Frederick Tatham's depiction of Blake's imagination, \"clothing itself in the dark stole of moral sanctity\"— in the precincts of Westminster Abbey— \"it dwelt amid the druid terrors\", is generic rather than specifically neo-druidic. John Toland was fascinated by Aubrey's Stonehenge theories, and wrote his own book about the monument without crediting Aubrey. The roles of bards in 10th century Wales had been established by Hywel Dda and it was during the 18th century that the idea arose that druids had been their predecessors.\n\nThe 19th-century idea, gained from uncritical reading of the \"Gallic Wars\", that under cultural-military pressure from Rome the druids formed the core of 1st-century BCE resistance among the Gauls, was examined and dismissed before World War II, though it remains current in folk history.\n\nDruids began to figure widely in popular culture with the first advent of Romanticism. Chateaubriand's novel \"Les Martyrs\" (1809) narrated the doomed love of a druid priestess and a Roman soldier; though Chateaubriand's theme was the triumph of Christianity over pagan druids, the setting was to continue to bear fruit. Opera provides a barometer of well-informed popular European culture in the early 19th century: in 1817 Giovanni Pacini brought druids to the stage in Trieste with an opera to a libretto by Felice Romani about a druid priestess, \"La Sacerdotessa d'Irminsul\" (\"The Priestess of Irminsul\"). The most famous druidic opera, Vincenzo Bellini's \"Norma\" was a fiasco at La Scala, when it premiered the day after Christmas, 1831; but in 1833 it was a hit in London. For its libretto, Felice Romani reused some of the pseudo-druidical background of \"La Sacerdotessa\" to provide colour to a standard theatrical conflict of love and duty. The story was similar to that of Medea, as it had recently been recast for a popular Parisian play by Alexandre Soumet: the chaste goddess (\"casta diva\") addressed in \"Norma\"'s hit aria is the moon goddess, worshipped in the \"grove of the Irmin statue\".\n\nAnother Welshman, William Price (4 March 1800 – 23 January 1893), a physician known for his support of Welsh nationalism, Chartism, and his involvement with the Neo-Druidic religious movement, has been recognised as a significant figures of 19th-century Wales. He was arrested for cremating his deceased son, a practice he believed to be a druid ritual, but won his case; this in turn led to the 1902 cremation act.\n\nIn 1927 T. D. Kendrick sought to dispel the pseudo-historical aura that had accrued to druids, asserting that \"a prodigious amount of rubbish has been written about Druidism\"; Neo-druidism has nevertheless continued to shape public perceptions of the historical druids.\n\nSome strands of contemporary Neo-Druidism are a continuation of the 18th-century revival and thus are built largely around writings produced in the 18th century and after by second-hand sources and theorists. Some are monotheistic. Others, such as the largest druid group in the world, The Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids draw on a wide range of sources for their teachings. Members of such Neo-Druid groups may be Neopagan, occultist, Christian or non-specifically spiritual.\n\nIn the 20th century, as new forms of textual criticism and archaeological methods were developed, allowing for greater accuracy in understanding the past, various historians and archaeologists published books on the subject of the druids and came to their own conclusions. The archaeologist Stuart Piggott, author of \"The Druids\" (1968), accepted the Greco-Roman accounts and considered the druids to be a barbaric and savage priesthood who performed human sacrifices. This view was largely supported by another archaeologist, Anne Ross, author of \"Pagan Celtic Britain\" (1967) and \"The Life and Death of a Druid Prince\" (1989), although she believed that they were essentially tribal priests, having more in common with the shamans of tribal societies than with the classical philosophers. Ross' views were largely accepted by two other prominent archaeologists to write on the subject, Miranda Aldhouse-Green—author of \"The Gods of the Celts\" (1986), \"Exploring the World of the Druids\" (1997) and \"Caesar's Druids: Story of an Ancient Priesthood\" (2010)—and Barry Cunliffe, author of \"Iron Age Communities in Britain\" (1991) and \"The Ancient Celts\" (1997).\n\nClassical sources\n\nBibliography—other sources\n"}
{"id": "1852482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1852482", "title": "Echinocereus", "text": "Echinocereus\n\nEchinocereus is a genus of ribbed, usually small to medium-sized cylindrical cacti, comprising about 70 species native to the southern United States and Mexico in very sunny rocky places. Usually the flowers are large and the fruit edible.\n\nThe name comes from the Ancient Greek ἐχῖνος (\"echinos\"), meaning \"hedgehog,\" and the Latin \"cereus\" meaning \"candle.\" They are sometimes known as hedgehog cacti, a term also used for the \"Pediocactus\" and \"Echinopsis\".\n\n\"Echinocereus\" are bushy and globular with tight spines which are often colorful and decorative. The flowers last slightly longer than those of other cacti.\n\n\"Echinocereus\" is easier to cultivate than many other cacti. They need a light soil, a sunny exposure, a fresh and dry winter to flower. They like a soil slightly richer than other cacti. In the wild, several of the species are cold-hardy, tolerating temperatures as low as -23 °C but only in dry conditions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49300037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49300037", "title": "Edward Anwyl (Wesleyan minister)", "text": "Edward Anwyl (Wesleyan minister)\n\nEdward Anwyl (1786–1857) was a Welsh Wesleyan minister and school teacher. \n\nBorn in April 1786 at Ty'nllan, Llanegryn, Merionethshire, his parents were Ann and Owen Anwyl.\nHe attended the school in his hometown until he was about 12 years of age, when he became a farm laborer because his father was dying. From that point, he continued his studies on his own. \n\nGriffith Hughes of the Wesleyans came to town in 1804 and he joined the church two years later. Anwyl was ordained in 1808. From then until his retirement in 1854 he served in twenty-one successive circuits. For sixteen years, he was the North Wales district chairman.\n\nAt some point he had moved to Penrhyndeudraeth and also taught school. He died on 23 January 1857 at Holywell.\n"}
{"id": "42995780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42995780", "title": "Fellatio in Halacha", "text": "Fellatio in Halacha\n\nWithin the guidelines of halacha, as presented by \"chazal\" and early rabbinic authorities, fellatio is classified as ביאה דרך איברים (penetration by way of the limbs) or מעשה חידודים בעלמא (general acts of sharpening).\n\nPeripheral halachic discussion of the topic revolves upon whether or not a husband may engage in varying sexually-gratifying acts with his wife – including fellatio – performed up to and including a complete extra-vaginal ejaculation.\n\nThe discussion includes the opinion of the permitting authorities limiting their permit to specific frequencies and timings, the consensus being that any halachic-permit (\"hetter\") is solely applicable within the exclusive framework of a Torah-permitted marital relationship and strictly during the time that one's wife is not in her \"niddah\" state.\n\nThe original Hebrew text of the \"Mishnah Torah\" of the Rambam, as translated by Yosef Qafih, shows the Rambam takes a lenient approach that permits all that a man desires to do with his wife. The presentation omits the customary prohibition on extracting semen in vain, which Qafih quarantines as an addition by a subsequent unknown editor. The Rambam's commentary to the Mishnah likewise hints at a lenient stance.\n\nChazal have in certain instances permitted intentional extra-vaginal ejaculation in tandem with one's wife. Tosefot cites the opinion of Rabbi Yitzchak (Isaac ben Samuel) who permits an occasional complete extra-vaginal ejaculation with one's wife on condition that one does not accustom himself to \"always\" doing so (Tosfoth, Yebamoth ; Tosfoth, Sanhedrin ). The \"Bayit Chadash\" (Yoel Sirkis) commentary to the Rabbeinu Asher (ibid.) explicitly permits this foreign ejaculation with Rabbeinu Asher siding with the Tosafist opinion. This opinion is likewise quoted in \"Tur Shulchan Aruch\", \"Even Ha'ezer\" ch. 25.\n\nThe \"Bayis Chodosh\" sourced his views based on the Talmudic tract of Yebamoth;\n\nThus Rabbenu Asher, followed by Rabbi Elijah Spira, commented that an occasional exterior ejaculation in tandem with one's wife is not considered \"extracting semen in vain\" (and not banned by the Talmud) as long as the intention is not to avoid impregnating one's wife \"and\" it is done on occasion, as this is not likened to the desire of Onan who wished to avoid impregnating Tamar entirely. The \"Aguddah\" work also sides with the lenient opinion permitting an occasional extra-vaginal ejaculation with one's wife, whilst Rabbi Samuel Eidels (the Maharsha) likewise taking a lenient view.\n\nIn a varying text of Kallah Rabthi as printed by Rabbi Solomon Aaron Wertheimer in \"Battei Medrashoth\", Rabbi Werthheimer notes the significance of the Talmud quoting both meat and fish in its parable depicting the enhanced permissiveness of sexually gratifying activities that one may perform with his wife;\n\nSince the Torah forbids cooking one's meat in milk, a parable quoting just meat would not suffice as meat has this restrictive element whereas fish has a lesser restrictive element, thus implying that man has an enhanced level of (sexual) freedom with his wife.\n\nA more explicit permissive stance is that of the tosafist rabbi Isaiah di Trani the Elder who hints that a complete extra-vaginal ejaculation is permitted whenever needed to \"seat\" one's desire with the stark exclusion being to avoid pregnancy;\n\nRabbi Isaiah the Elder's view is likewise echoed by his descendant, Rabbi Isaiah di Trani the Younger.\n\nRabbi Eleazar of Worms, in his recently published Torah commentary to the verse \"Adam and his wife, and where not embarrassed\" (Genesis) permits any activity with one's wife necessary to \"quiet (lit. seat)\" his desire.\n\nLater rabbinic authorities differentiated between masturbation (self-extracting semen in vain) and an extra-vaginal ejaculation achieved with the active participation of one's Torah-permitted partner - with the former being forbidden under most if not all circumstances. Apparently, any halachic permit for an extra-vaginal ejaculation must be accompanied by the active participation of one's wife.\n\nFrom among rabbis of the achronim era, the Tzemach Tzedek differentiated between extracting one's seed alone (\"masturbation upon trees and stones\") and extra-vaginal extracting of one's semen with the active participation of one's wife, with the latter classified as a form of a tandem relationship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3815869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3815869", "title": "Great Commandment", "text": "Great Commandment\n\nThe Great Commandment (or Greatest Commandment) is a name used in the New Testament to describe the first of two commandments cited by Jesus in and . These two commandments are paraphrases taken from the Old Testament and are commonly seen as important to Jewish and Christian ethics.\n\nIn Mark, when asked \"which is the great commandment in the law?\", the Greek New Testament reports that Jesus answered, \"Hear, O Israel! The Lord our God, The Lord is One; Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind\", before also referring to a second commandment, \"Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.\" Most Christian denominations consider these two commandments to be the core of correct Christian lifestyle.\n\nIn the Gospel of Mark, the Shema is included:\n\nMatthew Henry sums up the question of which is the great commandment:\n\nAdam Clarke, in his \"Commentary on the Bible\", wrote:\n\n\"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God\" is explained to mean \"Act in such a manner that God will be beloved by all His creatures.\" Consequently, Israel, being, as the priest-people, enjoined like the Aaronite priest to sanctify the name of God and avoid whatever tends to desecrate it (Lev. xxii. 32), is not only obliged to give his life as witness or martyr for the maintenance of the true faith (see Isa. xliii. 12, μάρτυρες; and Pesik. 102b; Sifra, Emor, ix.), but so to conduct himself in every way as to prevent the name of God from being dishonored by non-Israelites.\n\nTwice every day the Jew recites the \"Shema Yisrael\", which contains the words: \"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might\" (Deut. vi. 5). This verse is understood to enjoin him to willingly surrender life and fortune whenever the cause of God demands it, while it at the same time urges him to make God beloved by all his creatures through deeds of kindness, as Abraham did (Sifre, Deut. 32).\n\nAlthough only asked about the first commandment, Jesus included the second commandment in his answer. This double reference has given rise to differing views with regard to the relationship that exists between the two commandments, although typically \"love thy God\" is referred to as \"the first and greatest commandment\", with \"love thy neighbour\" being referred to as \"the second great commandment\". It may simply reflect the \"seven rules (Middot) of Hillel\", in this case the first one, called Ḳal wa-ḥomer (Hebrew: קל וחומר).\n\nWhen asked which is the greatest commandment, the \"Christian New Testament\" depicts Jesus paraphrasing the Torah: \"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind,\" before also paraphrasing a second passage; \"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.\" Most Christian denominations view these two commandments as, together, forming the core of the Christian religion. The second passage is considered to be a form of the Golden Rule (circa 1300 BCE).\n\n"}
{"id": "13202102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13202102", "title": "High Priests of Amun", "text": "High Priests of Amun\n\nThe priesthood of Amun rose in power during the early Eighteenth dynasty through significant tributes to the god Amun by ruler such as Hatshepsut and more importantly Thutmose III. The Amun priesthood in Thebes had four high-ranking priests:\n\nThe power of the Amun priesthood was temporarily curtailed during the Amarna period. A high priest named Maya is recorded in year 4 of Akhenaten. Akhenaten has the name of Amun removed from monuments during his reign as well as the names of several other deities. After his death, Amun was restored to his place of prominence among the cults in Egypt. The young pharaoh Tutankhaten changed his name to Tutankhamun to signal the restoration of the Amun to his former place of prominence.\n\nThe Theban High Priest of Amun was appointed by the King. It was not uncommon for the position to be held by dignitaries who held additional posts in the pharaoh's administration. Several of the high priests from the time of Ramesses II also served as Vizier.\n\nAt the end of the New Kingdom, the Twentieth Dynasty priesthood of Amun is for a large part dominated by Ramessesnakht. His son, Amenhotep, eventually succeeded his father and found himself in conflict with the Viceroy of Kush, Panehesy. Panehesy took his troops north and besieged Thebes. After this period, generals by the name of Herihor and Piye served as High Priest.\nBy the time Herihor was proclaimed as the first ruling High Priest of Amun in 1080 BC—in the 19th Year of Ramesses XI—the Amun priesthood exercised an effective stranglehold on Egypt's economy. The Amun priests owned two-thirds of all the temple lands in Egypt and 90 percent of her ships plus many other resources. Consequently, the Amun priests were as powerful as Pharaoh, if not more so. The High Priests of Amun at Thebes from the 21st dynasty were of such power and influence that they were effectively the rulers of Upper Egypt from 1080 to c. 943 BC. They are however not regarded as a ruling dynasty with pharaonic prerogatives, and after this period the influence of the Amun priesthood declined. One of the sons of the High Priest, Pinedjem I, would eventually assume the throne and rule Egypt for almost half-a-decade as pharaoh Psusennes I while the Theban High Priest Psusennes III would take the throne as king Psusennes II—the final ruler of the Twenty-first Dynasty.\n\n\n\n[ 2 unattested HPA or vacant? 644-595]\n\n"}
{"id": "2678885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2678885", "title": "Kemetic Orthodoxy", "text": "Kemetic Orthodoxy\n\nKemetic Orthodoxy is a modern religious sect based on Kemeticism, which is a reconstruction of ancient Egyptian religion. It was founded in 1988 by Tamara Siuda, who remains its current Nisut or Pharaoh.\n\nKemetic Orthodoxy does not follow a single scripture, but rather a fluid understanding of balance, justice and truth. Worship often takes place in shrines, which exist in both public and personal forms.\n\nFive basic tenets guide the faith of members: Belief in upholding ma'at, Belief in Netjer (the supreme being), Akhu (Ancestor) Veneration, Participation in and Respect for the Community, and Acknowledgment of Siuda as the Nisut. Members of the faith are known as \"Shemsu\".\n\nThe main temple is in Joliet, Illinois, with a variety of state shrines maintained by priests throughout the world.\n\nKemetic Orthodoxy claims to be based on the religious practices of Ancient Egypt. However, it is not a reconstructionist religion, but an ever-evolving religion that combines ancient and modern practices to create a modern religion.\n\nIt has five principal tenets, often described as four main tenets held together by a fundamental belief in upholding ma'at. The organisation does not consider these tenets as dogma. Instead, they report that these form the basis of what most members of Kemetic Orthodoxy believe, but what each individual member believes may vary. The religion does not require that all members practice in exactly the same way, and different views are looked upon as merely different ways of understanding God, or Netjer.\n\nIn the Ancient Egyptian religion, Ma'at is believed to be both a goddess and the force that keeps the world balanced. In Kemetic Orthodoxy, Ma'at is considered to be both a Name of Netjer (manifestation of God) and an abstract concept of balance, justice and truth. Members of Kemetic Orthodoxy believe that this standard must be upheld in all daily life. This includes not being deliberately harmful to any person as well as being kind to one's self, among other things.\n\nOne belief central to Kemetic Orthodoxy is the belief in Netjer, the supreme deity of Kemetic Orthodoxy, and its \"Names\", the commonly recognized gods of ancient Egypt. These gods and goddesses, commonly called Names of Netjer, manifest in various forms and have various names, e.g. Anpu, Aset, etc. Followers of Kemetic Orthodoxy usually refer to Netjer using these various Names, and believe that such gods are merely different aspects of the one supreme God, which has multiple names. Therefore, the teachings of Kemetic Orthodoxy can be considered an Inclusive monotheism as opposed to Monolatry, as the existence of other Gods is not explicitly stated.\n\nAncestor veneration, or Akhu veneration, is a very important aspect of Kemetic Orthodoxy. Adherents believe that their Akhu are their ancestors. As Akhu are believed to have already experienced human life, it is thought that they can give valuable advice and support regarding things related to daily human life. Members believe that honoring their Akhu ensures that they remain happy and satisfied in the Duat.\n\nWays in which members believe that they can honour their Akhu vary, ranging from the practice of keeping household ancestor shrines, on which offerings can be made, to writing letters to the Akhu and posting them on a website designed for such a purpose, similar to the practice of writing letters to the dead found in ancient Egypt. It is noted that this practice is different from that known as Ancestor Worship.\n\nIn Kemetic Orthodoxy, Akhu generally fall into three categories: Family, National, and Associational.\n\n\nAs part of Kemetic Orthodoxy, members strive to support a thriving religious community, both on and off-line. Every member is required to show respect to all other members.\n\nThe Kemetic Orthodox emphasizes the importance of family in the personal lives of adherents. The faith encourages increased relationships and understanding of an individual with their family members. This concept is related to the principle of Akhu veneration.\n\nThe acknowledgment of Tamara L. Siuda as spiritual leader, or Nisut-Bity, is also central to Kemetic Orthodoxy, as the religion consists of her teachings and leadership. Additionally, adherents believe that the current incarnation of the \"kingly ka\", or invested spirit of Heru, is co-resident in the Nisut. Upon her coronation in 1996, the Nisut was believed by her followers to have become the 196th Pharaoh of the religion of Ancient Egypt. The Pharaoh in Ancient Egypt was not only the political ruler of Kemet, but also the direct religious contact between the people and Netjer, or God. Adherents of Kemetic Orthodoxy believe that Siuda fills only the religious aspect of this title and position.\n\nThe role of the Nisut includes performing daily rituals to enforce ma'at and dispel isfet (the opposite of ma'at), regularly praying for the members of the faith, and advising her followers in religious matters.\n\nWorship within Kemetic Orthodoxy takes many forms. There are official, state rituals performed by the priesthood and Nisut of Kemetic Orthdoxy; there is Senut, the daily rite performed by members of the temple; and there are other, more personalized forms of worship that are left to the individual practitioner.\n\nThere are several different kinds of group rituals present in Kemetic Orthodoxy. These may be held entirely in person, or may be simulcast via Internet Relay Chat. Rituals held in this fashion are celebrated fully in person at the Truth and the Mother Shrine, while a priest describes what is happening to participants gathered in the chat room. During certain points, the individuals participating via simulcast may be asked to perform a ritual action at home, and will be asked to notify the priest transcribing the event when they have done so.\n\nSiuda notes, however, that \"Kemetic Orthodoxy is a religion on the internet, not an internet religion\". This is reflected in the existence of off-line gatherings and rituals. Members of Kemetic Orthodoxy gather at Tawy House in August for the Kemetic New Year, Wep Ronpet. As the largest gathering, it is the best example of an event held by the Kemetic Orthodox off-line. It includes rituals, fellowship, lectures and workshops.\n\nAn example of a form of group worship for the Kemetic Orthodox religion, as noted by Krogh & Pillifant (2004) is that of \"Saq\". Saq is an ancient form of ritual possession in which a specialized priest is believed to become entirely possessed by a deity. Through this venue, the deity speaks with members of Kemetic Orthodoxy and accepts offerings. Saqu (the plural form of Saq) may be held entirely in person, or may be simulcast via the internet, where on-line participants send messages to the attending priest, who reads them out loud to the deity in possession. It is described as being \"one of the most immediate and profound experiences of Kemetic Orthodoxy\".\n\nIndividuals worship in many different ways. From specific rituals to spur of the moment prayers, worship is an ongoing process. The following are some examples of personal worship and rituals.\n\nMost members of Kemetic Orthodoxy, as part of their devotional practices, set up household shrines to the deities they worship. The basic necessities of such a shrine include an incense burner or diffuser, a lamp or candle, and a place to put offerings. Shrines may contain representations of certain deities, or they may have a more general focus. They often contain objects which have been offered to a deity or deities. The individual uses this shrine to perform various rituals including the Senut daily rite. Individuals may honor deities to whom they are particularly called, as well as deities in festival, deities associated with the time of year, or even deities of whom they have a special request.\n\nIn addition to these personal deity-centered shrines, members of Kemetic Orthodoxy are encouraged to set up shrines to their ancestors or Akhu, as part of venerating their ancestors. These shrines often contain mementos of individuals close to the member who have died, and are the central focus for ancestor veneration in the member's home.\n\nSenut, meaning \"shrine\", is a rite that was established by Siuda for members of Kemetic Orthodoxy as a means of formal worship in a framework where formal temples and shrines for every region were lacking. The Senut ritual is composed of various rites, and is a \"fully functional ritual for individual use yet containing all of the necessary elements of \"all\" Kemetic ritual, whether practiced by one or a thousand.\"\n\nAside from the Senut ritual, there are few other personal ritual forms of worship that exist within Kemetic Orthodoxy. Members often develop their own informal practices, which vary from person to person. Informal prayer and worship are encouraged as a necessary part of the faith.\n\nEven though, in Kemetic Orthodoxy, individual worship is a very important aspect of one's belief, often the experiences are shared with other members of the religion. This shared experience is intended to help strengthen the bonds between members and Netjer. Many individuals use the creation of art as a tool in worship. These paintings, drawings, sculpture, jewelry, poetry, music, dance, and storytelling are often shared with other members.\n\nKemetic Orthodoxy grew out of the personal teachings of Siuda. The temple began in 1988, when she claimed to have experienced a series of visions during her initiation as a Wiccan priestess. She started a small study and worship group at that time, which gradually grew in membership. In 1993, the group was federally recognized as a religious entity and changed its name from the House of Bast to the House of Netjer. The temple was granted tax-exempt status in 1999.\n\nIn 2003 the House of Netjer purchased a building to be the permanent home of the Temple in Joliet, Illinois. The building contains the main state shrine for followers of Kemetic Orthodoxy (The Truth and the Mother Shrine). It also includes the offices of some members of the priesthood, and the permanent living quarters and office of Siuda.\n\nIn 1999 the following membership statistics were reported:\n\nIn recent years, an increasing number of converts have been from outside the US.\n\nA small number of members who were born into the faith have continued of members. It is estimated that these members make up less than 5% of Kemetic Orthodoxy's total membership.\n\nThe House of Netjer community is a global community with members in multiple countries. Because of the difficulty of maintaining contact with people from around the world, the members are divided into geographical regions. Some regions have frequent \"meet-ups\" where members gather for socialization, fellowship, and/or worship. Some gatherings invite non-members to meet the membership.\n\nGatherings also take place in on-line chats of various formats. Like off-line events, on-line events vary widely in their format. The most common formats are fellowship events, with little or no structure, and educational events, where one or more member leads a group discussion on a topic of interest.\n\nThere are two classes of membership in Kemetic Orthodoxy, Remetj and Shemsu.\n\nRemetj, translated as \"royal subjects\", are referred to as \"friends of the faith\". Some Remetj are members who have taken the free online group introductory course and decided to not yet become full members, but wish to remain affiliated with Kemetic Orthodoxy. Remetj may also include those who plan on becoming members in the future, but have not yet done so, as well as individuals who were born into the faith. An adherent of Kemetic Othodoxy may also be referred to as a Remetj if they had, at one time, held the status of full member, but no longer hold such a position.\n\nShemsu, translated as \"followers\", are individuals who have decided to become full members of the House of Netjer temple. This requires having previously been a Remetj (to take the introductory course) and partaking in a ritual to become a full member.\n\nThis ritual consists of two parts. The first part is the determination of the convert's \"Parent\" and \"Beloved\" gods. The Kemetic Orthodox believe that the Parent god(s) create the \"ba\", or eternal soul, of the candidate; while the Beloved gods, of whom there can be any number, have taken a personal interest in helping the individual through their life. This rite is called the Ritual Parent Divination, or RPD, and is a geomantic divination that is performed on the convert's behalf by Siuda. The results of this ritual may be relayed in a face-to-face meeting between Siuda and the Remetj, or via telephone and internet.\n\nThe second half of this ritual is a community gathering of Remetj and Shemsu, known as Shemsu naming. During this gathering, individuals who wish to become Shemsu, and have undergone the Rite of Parent Divination, are announced to those gathered (alternatively, the announcement may take the form of a public post on social media). This announcement repeats the results of the Rite of Parent Divination and assigns each individual a religious name. This religious name is believed to be created by an individual's Parent god(s), and often has many meanings. After everyone has been announced, all Shemsu, new and old, are charged with a set of vows, from which the following excerpt is taken:\n\nAccording to House of Netjer, Shemsu namings occur both annually in person during the faith's yearly major retreat, held in August, and simulcast on the internet at various intervals throughout the year.\n\nA subset of Shemsu are those who have undergone the initiation rite known as the \"Weshem-ib\" or \"testing of the heart\". In this process, members take special vows to not only place Kemetic Orthodoxy before other religious practices, but to work to serve the religion and its members. These responsibilities are in addition to the regular oaths taken by Shemsu. A Shemsu who has completed the Weshem-ib is called a Shemsu-Ankh. All priests in the Kemetic Orthodoxy faith must undertake this rite.\n\nThe priesthood of Kemetic Orthodoxy is composed of both lay (or non-ordained) and ordained priests. The Kemetic Orthodoxy religion uses the term \"priest\" for both males and females. A priest's primary responsibility is to the members, not to the Names of Netjer.\n\nA W'ab priest, translated as \"purity priest\", is a lay priest of the Kemetic Orthodox faith. They are Shemsu-Ankh members who have undertaken additional training and oaths of service to the members of the faith. As a W'ab priest, the member's main responsibility is overseeing and helping in issues of purity. A W'ab priest is also responsible for maintaining an official shrine and performing daily rituals there. Some of these shrines are open to visiting members, especially for specific rituals and/or celebrations.\n\nAn Imakhu (plural Imakhiu), translated as \"revered one\", is the only type of priest in the modern Kemetic Faith who is an ordained priest. They are given legal credentials and the right to use the title of \"Reverend\" outside of the Kemetic Orthodox faith. All Imakhu serve as W'ab priests as well.\n\nImakhu are responsible for assisting the Nisut in maintaining and supporting the faithful, such as providing counseling (if they have been so trained), performing weddings, supporting and instructing Remetj, Shemsu, and Beginners, and acting as the Nisut's official representatives. They are also responsible for overseeing the administrative requirements of running the House of Netjer temple, including finances, correspondence, managing time and resources, reporting to membership and Siuda, teaching, maintaining and updating the Kemetic Orthodox internet presence, scheduling appointments and trips for Siuda, personal security, and many other jobs.\n\nAn Imakhu who has performed exceptional service may receive the title of Kai-Imakhu, the prefix \"Kai\" translated as \"exalted\". Kai-Imakhu, in addition to their regular duties as an Imakhu, are also responsible overseeing the other Imakhu.\n\nThe Tawy House Retreat Center organises religious and study retreats for members of Kemetic Orthodoxy. These include the week-long celebrations of \"Wep Ronpet\" or Kemetic New Year's Day (early August).\n\nThe Truth and the Mother Shrine is the main state shrine of the followers of the Kemetic Orthodox Religion. Included and associated with this shrine are a variety of individual and group deity shrines, such as the Akhu shrine and Nisut shrine. These shrines often rotate through the year based on current festivals and the needs of the membership. The Truth and the Mother Shrine is also linked to various priest shrines around the world.\n\nThe Imhotep Kemetic Orthodox Seminary is a school devoted to the theological study of the Kemetic Orthodox religion. It offers introductory and intermediate classes in the Middle Egyptian language, as well as a course in Kemetic protective magic, known as \"Sau\". These courses are optional for all members of the faith.\n\nThe Udjat Foundation was an affiliated non-profit organization dedicated specifically to children's welfare causes.\n\nKemetic Orthodoxy does not have any official relationship with any other religions. Other modern Kemetic groups, such as Akhet Hwt-Hrw, Per Ankh and Per Heh, do not claim affiliation with or share the beliefs of Kemetic Orthodoxy.\n\nAs Kemetic Orthodoxy does not teach that it is the only religious path that one can or should follow, some members practice more than one religious belief. Members are asked to keep other beliefs and practices separate from their Kemetic beliefs and practices. If a member has gone through the Weshem-ib or \"testing of the heart\" ritual, they are asked to place their Kemetic practices and beliefs first, and other religious thoughts second. No Kemetic Orthodox member is obliged to participate in this rite, though it is a mandatory prerequisite for priesthood.\n\nThe Kemetic Orthodox religion does not ask its members to seek converts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "570839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570839", "title": "Kolchak: The Night Stalker", "text": "Kolchak: The Night Stalker\n\nKolchak: The Night Stalker is an American television series that aired on ABC during the 1974–1975 season. It featured a fictional Chicago newspaper reporter—Carl Kolchak, played by Darren McGavin—who investigated mysterious crimes with unlikely causes, particularly those that law enforcement authorities would not follow up. These often involved the supernatural or science fiction, including fantastic creatures. The series was preceded by two television movies, \"The Night Stalker\" (1972) and \"The Night Strangler\" (1973). Although the series lasted only a single season, it remains popular in syndication. In 2018, it aired late Saturday nights on MeTV.\n\nChris Carter cited Kolchak as a \"tremendous influence\" in creating his franchise \"The X-Files\". Following that success in 2005 \"The X-Files\" producer Frank Spotnitz resurrected second television series with a new cast and characters, as well as subsequent novels and comic books. It was a ratings bomb and was quietly cancelled after only six of the ten episodes produced were aired.\n\nThe main character originated in an unpublished novel, \"The Kolchak Papers\", written by Jeff Rice. In it, a Las Vegas newspaper reporter named Carl Kolchak tracks down and defeats a serial killer who turns out to be a vampire named Janos Skorzeny. Although the reporter uses the name \"Carl\", the novel reveals that his birth name is \"Karel\". After the success of the TV film and its sequel, the novel was published in 1973 by Pocket Books as a mass-market paperback original titled \"The Night Stalker\", with a photo of Darren McGavin on the cover to tie it to the film.\n\nThe second television film, \"The Night Strangler\", was also turned into a novel (written by Jeff Rice but based on a script by Richard Matheson), published in 1974 by Pocket Books.\n\nBoth novels were republished in 2007 by Moonstone in an omnibus edition called \"The Kolchak Papers\". Moonstone Books continues to produce \"Kolchak\" comic books.\n\nABC approached Rice with an offer to option \"The Kolchak Papers\", which was adapted eventually by Richard Matheson into a television movie, \"The Night Stalker\". It was produced by Dan Curtis and directed by John Llewellyn Moxey. Darren McGavin played the role of Carl. The cast also included Carol Lynley, Simon Oakland, Ralph Meeker, Claude Akins, Charles McGraw, Kent Smith, Stanley Adams, Elisha Cook Jr., Larry Linville, Jordan Rhodes, and Barry Atwater as the vampire Janos Skorzeny.\n\n\"The Night Stalker\" first aired January 11, 1972, and garnered the highest ratings of any television movie at that time (33.2 rating – 54 share). Matheson received a 1973 Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best TV Feature or Miniseries Teleplay.\n\nImpressed by the success of the first television movie, ABC commissioned Richard Matheson to write a second movie, \"The Night Strangler\" (1973), which featured another serial killer in Seattle who strangled his victims and used their blood to keep himself alive for over a century. Kolchak recruits exotic dancer and psychology student Louise Harper (Jo Ann Pflug) to assist him in tracking down the eponymous strangler.\n\nA fictitious version of the Seattle Underground City was used as a setting for much of the movie's action, and provided the killer with his hiding place. Dan Curtis both produced and directed the second movie, which also did well in the ratings. Rice wrote a novelization based on Matheson's screenplay. The novel was published in 1974 by Pocket Books as a mass-market paperback original under the title \"The Night Strangler\" with a close-up photo of the monster's eye to tie in with the movie.\n\nSimon Oakland reprised his earlier role as Kolchak's editor, Tony Vincenzo. The cast also included Richard Anderson, Scott Brady, Wally Cox, Margaret Hamilton, John Carradine, Nina Wayne and Al Lewis.\n\nSeveral scenes were filmed with George Tobias playing a reporter who recalled a series of murders he had investigated during the 1930s. These scenes were cut before airing because of time constraints.\n\nThe first four episodes had the title \"The Night Stalker,\" with \"Kolchak: The Night Stalker\" being used for the rest of the episodes, although home video releases were changed to reflect the second title. (The series theme had originally been part of the music score which Gil Melle had composed for \"The Questor Tapes.\")\n\nIn late 1973, Matheson and William F. Nolan completed the script for an intended third television movie, to be titled \"The Night Killers,\" a story about android replicas. ABC decided that it wanted a weekly series instead.\n\nAfter some negotiation, McGavin agreed to return as Kolchak and also served as the series's executive producer, though he was not credited as such. However, neither ABC nor Universal had obtained Jeff Rice's permission, and he sued the studio. The suit was resolved shortly before the series aired in the fall 1974 season, replacing \"Toma\" on the network's Friday night schedule. Rice received an on-screen credit as series creator. The first four episodes aired under the title of \"The Night Stalker.\" After a month-long hiatus, the series was renamed and returned as \"Kolchak: The Night Stalker.\"<br>\nWhile the show was set in Chicago and some generic location/background filming was done there (all in summer and early fall), the show was filmed primarily in Los Angeles and at Universal Studios.\n\nThe show featured a wide range of guest stars and many Hollywood veterans, including: Ken Lynch, Charles Aidman, Randy Boone, Scatman Crothers, Dick Van Patten, Jan Murray, Larry Storch, Jeanne Cooper, Alice Ghostley, Victor Jory, Murray Matheson, Julie Adams, John Dehner, Phil Silvers, Bernie Kopell, Marvin Miller, Carol Ann Susi, Jesse White, James Gregory, Hans Conried, Mary Wickes, Henry Jones, Carolyn Jones, Jackie Mason, Stella Stevens, Abraham Sofaer, David Doyle, Jim Backus, Kathleen Freeman, John Hoyt, Dwayne Hickman, Eric Braeden, Tom Skerritt, Erik Estrada, William Daniels, Jamie Farr, Lara Parker, Pat Harrington, Jr., Larry Linville and Richard Kiel. Jimmy Hawkins appeared on the series as a Catholic priest on November 1, 1974, in what proved to be his last acting appearance. McGavin's wife and assistant, Kathie Browne, appeared in the final episode as Lt. Irene Lamont.\n\nIn addition, the series provided the first professional writing credit for Robert Zemeckis and his writing partner Bob Gale, who wrote the script for the episode \"Chopper.\" David Chase, creator of \"The Sopranos,\" also worked on the series as a story editor, his first regular crew position in Hollywood. Though Chase is credited on eight episodes as story editor, he also helped rewrite the remaining 12, and McGavin and others attribute much of the show's quirky humor to his creative input.\n\nThe show's ratings were mediocre and McGavin was growing dissatisfied, resulting in its cancellation after one year. The series aired on Friday nights at 10pm - a virtual graveyard for most TV series, particularly one aimed at a younger audience. In January 1975, the show was moved to Friday nights at 8pm, where it remained until August when it was cancelled. McGavin found himself rewriting scripts and doing much of the work of a producer, but without getting either the full credit or the full compensation of one. McGavin had been unhappy with what he felt was the show's \"monster of the week\" direction, and an exhausting filming schedule. He asked to be released from his contract with two episodes remaining to be filmed, which the network granted in light of the show's dwindling ratings.\n\nTwo television movies, \"The Demon and the Mummy\" and \"Crackle of Death,\" were cobbled together in 1976. Each contains new footage as well as previously screened episodes from the series. McGavin provided a voice-over for both, which allowed the narrative to maintain some continuity.\n\nThe series features Kolchak as a reporter for the Chicago branch of the Independent News Service (INS), a small wire service.\n\n\n\n\nThe series managed in its short run to tackle most of the major monster myths, including classics such as vampires, werewolves, mummies and zombies. It also included stories about a doppelganger, witches, a succubus and a pact with Satan. Four episodes focused on monsters and spirits based in native folklore (two involving Native American legends, one Hindu and one Creole).\n\nThe series also dealt with creatures from science fiction, including a killer android, an invisible extraterrestrial, a prehistoric man thawed back to life, and a lizard-creature protecting its eggs.\n\nThe series also featured some more esoteric antagonists, including a headless motorcycle rider that hinted at the headless horseman myth and an animated knight's suit of armor possessed by a spirit. A story about Jack the Ripper was one of the few based on an actual historical figure, though the series provided a supernatural explanation. An episode about Helen of Troy (Cathy Lee Crosby appeared in the role) dealt with immortality and aging.\n\nRobert Cobert scored the music for the original television movies. Gil Mellé wrote the music for the TV series, beginning with the theme that begins with Kolchak whistling in the opening credits. Mellé was hired and the theme was written in 20 minutes, just before the opening credits were shot.\n\nMellé left the series after the fourth episode, saying it was becoming too light-hearted. Composer Jerry Fielding took over scoring music for the remaining series, augmented by one score each from Greig McRitchie (best known for his collaborations with Fielding, and James Horner), and Luchi De Jesus. Music Supervisor Hal Mooney re-used much of Mellé's score in various later episodes (most notably \"The Spanish Moss Murders\" which has no credited score composer) along with material from the other composers.\n\nTwo soundtrack albums have been produced. One released in 2000 by Varèse Sarabande features two suites of Cobert's music from the TV movies. The other, a bootleg copy of Melle's private tapes, features his theme and scores written for the first three episodes (\"The Ripper\", \"U.F.O.\" and \"Vampire\"), and two cues from TVmovie \"The Questor Tapes.\"\n\nThe Mellé theme also appears on the TVT Records' \"Television's Greatest Hits Volume 5\". However, all licensed soundtrack recordings of the theme use an otherwise rare original recording alternate take of the theme. Initially identifiable by the altered opening whistle, an off-key electronic note is seemingly randomly introduced towards the end, but when synchronized with picture it corresponds to a specific visual. Mellé was known for his innovative use of electronic orchestration (which was used throughout the series), however the producers chose not to include this stylistic element in his main title for broadcast, instead opting for a more conventional all-orchestral sound.\n\nThe series was cancelled with only 20 episodes completed but the initial order of 26 meant there were scripts that were completed but unproduced for the series. Three additional scripts commissioned before the series was cancelled still survive.\n\nThe story is summed up by Kolchak's opening narration: \"What if I told you that a deranged feminist murdered a Casanova lab technician, a sex goddess, and her purveyor?\"\n\nKolchak is assigned to cover a miners' strike in the mountains of West Virginia. He uncovers gruesome murders associated with a backwoods family and Kolchak suspects that they have some sort of inbred monster living with them.\n\nKolchak is demoted, and is given the choice of writing obituaries or writing articles for the arts section. He chooses the latter, and discovers a painting tied into a series of murders that Vincenzo is covering. These murders occur in a series of three, in which the first victim is hanged, the second executed with an ax, and the third poisoned. Working with an art expert, Kolchak attempts to unravel who or what is behind these bizarre murders and what they have to do with the painting, without alerting Vincenzo that he is working on the same story.\n\nThough Kolchak was short-lived as a series, its impact on popular culture has been \nsubstantial. In particular the series has been described as a predecessor to \"The X-Files\" (1993–2002,2016,2018). \"The X-Files\" creator, Chris Carter, has acknowledged that the show had influenced him greatly in his own work. In one interview when mentioned that the majority of the viewing public considered the success of \"The X-Files\" series as being inspired by other such past shows such as \"The Twilight Zone\" or \"The Outer Limits\", Carter mentions that while those shows were indeed an influence on \"The X-Files\", it was only about ten percent, with another thirty percent coming from the \"Kolchak\" series, with the rest derived as being based upon original 'pure inspiration'. Carter paid tribute to \"Kolchak\" in a number of ways in the \nshow. A character named \"Richard Matheson\", named for the screenwriter of the pilot films, appeared in several episodes. Carter also wanted McGavin to appear as Kolchak in one or more episodes of \"The X-Files\", but McGavin was unwilling to reprise the character for the show. He did eventually appear in several episodes as Arthur Dales, a retired FBI agent described as the \"father of the X-Files\". In the third episode of the 2016 revival series, a character prominently featured in the episode \"Mulder and Scully Meet the Were-Monster\" is conspicuously attired in Kolchak's trademark seersucker jacket, black knit tie, and straw hat.\n\nGary Gygax has cited an episode of the series as part of the inspiration behind the Rakshasa in the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" game.\n\nThough Rice retains the rights to written Kolchak works, and Universal Studios owns the rights to the TV series, ABC maintained dramatic rights to the character and ownership of the two TV movies. The network began airing a new \"Night Stalker\" series on September 29, 2005, with the character Carl Kolchak portrayed by Stuart Townsend. On November 14, 2005, ABC and creator Frank Spotnitz announced that the new series was being cancelled due to low ratings. The 2005 series is available on DVD.\n\nIn a nod to the original series, the pilot episode has a brief shot from the original TV series of Darren McGavin in the INS newsroom, as the new Kolchak (Townsend) is walking through it. Inserted digitally, McGavin is dressed in the same frumpy clothes he wore as Kolchak in the original series and smiles knowingly while touching his hat. The satchel in which Kolchak carried wooden stakes and a cross to battle Skorzeny is shown. In another shot, when fellow reporter Perri Reed (Gabrielle Union) is searching through Kolchak's room, the hat McGavin wore in the original series is seen hanging on a coat rack. Other character names from the TV movies are referenced in various episodes, and one episode (\"Timeless\") recycled much of the plot of the TV movie \"The Night Strangler\". In the 1970s, the Kolchak character was often seen in his yellow 1966 Ford Mustang convertible while in the new series' Kolchak drives an orange Mustang from 2005.\n\nIn 1991, author Mark Dawidziak wrote \"Night Stalking: A 20th Anniversary \"Night Stalker\" Companion\" detailing the production of the movies and TV series. In 1994, Dawidziak worked with Rice to produce the first official \"Kolchak\" material since the end of the TV series. The novel, \"Grave Secrets\", moved Kolchak from Chicago to Los Angeles where he obtained a job at the \"Hollywood Dispatch\" newspaper (nicknamed the \"Disgrace\"). Most of the recurring characters from the TV movies and series also appear. Kolchak investigates a ghost who is killing those responsible for the destruction of the cemetery where its body is buried. An expanded and updated version of Dawidziak's \"Night Stalking\" was published in 1997 by Pomegranate Press as \"The Night Stalker Companion.\" In 2003, the scripts for \"The Night Stalker,\" \"The Night Strangler\" and the unfilmed \"The Night Killers\" were published by Gauntlet Press as \"Richard Matheson's Kolchak Scripts\" (edited with introductions by Dawidziak).\n\nA comic book based on the property was published in 2003 by Moonstone Books with some commercial success. Moonstone continues to publish both a bimonthly serial magazine and a series of prose novels and graphic novels featuring the characters. Moonstone also adapted Rice's original \"The Night Stalker\" script as well as two unfilmed scripts for the TV series: \"The Get of Belial\" and \"Eve of Terror\".\n\nIn 2006, Moonstone published a short fiction anthology, \"The Night Stalker Chronicles\", with short stories contributed by writers such as Peter David, Mike W. Barr, Stuart Kaminsky, Richard Dean Starr, C. J. Henderson, Dawidziak and Max Allan Collins. A second volume, \"Kolchak: The Night Stalker Casebook\", was published in January 2007 featuring new short fiction by authors including P. N. Elrod, Christopher Golden, Richard Dean Starr, Dawidziak and Elaine Bergstrom. Between 2007 and 2012, Moonstone published several \"Night Stalker\" novels and novellas, including \"The Lovecraftian Horror\", \"The Lovecraftian Damnation\", \"A Black and Evil Truth\" and \"The Lost City\", all by C. J. Henderson. \"A Black and Evil Truth\" was later released as an audiobook.\n\nIn May 2012, Disney announced a film adaptation is in the works with Johnny Depp starring and producing with Edgar Wright directing.\n\nTwentieth Century Fox released the first TV movie on VHS, \"The Night Stalker,\" as part of its \"Selections\" series. MGM Home Video released the two TV movies on DVD on August 24, 2004. Universal Studios Home Entertainment released \"Kolchak: The Night Stalker – The Complete Series\" on DVD a year later. Madman Entertainment released the complete series on DVD in Australia and New Zealand on July 15, 2009.\n\nThe two TV films, \"The Night Stalker\" and \"The Night Strangler\" were released on blu-ray disc October 2, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "57701128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57701128", "title": "Kongo religion", "text": "Kongo religion\n\nKongo religion is a broad set of traditional beliefs from the KiKongo speaking peoples. The faith bases itself in the idea of a main creator god named Nzambi Mpungu who made the world and spirits who inhabit it. Priestly doctors known as Nganga try to heal followers minds and bodies. Mediatory roles like being a Nganga require legitimization from the other world of spirits and ancestors. The universe is split between two worlds, one of the living (nza yayi) and a world of the dead (nsi a bafwa), these worlds are split by a body of water. Humans continually pass through these worlds in cycle.\n\nThe religion of the Kongo is deeply complex. According to historian John K. Thornton \"Central Africans have probably never agreed among themselves as to what their cosmology is in detail, a product of what I called the process of continuous revelation and precarious priesthood.\" The Kongo people had diverse views, with traditional religious thought best developed in the northern Kikongo-speaking area. There is plenty of description about Kongo religious ideas in the Christian missionary and colonial era records, but as Thornton states, \"these are written with a hostile bias and their reliability is problematic\". Kongo beliefs included \"Kilundu\" as \"Nzambi\" (god) or \"Jinzambi\" (gods, deities), all had only limited powers.\n\nSpirits as well as dead ancestors could be communed with and those with authority got special rights to such communing. The priestly Nganga can interact with such spirits and ancestors. They would use spiritual cures to battle black magic in the world, sometimes using Nkisi. Nganga are not allowed to use black magic and only assisted clients to bring upon good fortune.\n\nThe traditional religion has its roots in Bantu speaking peoples in Africa. As the faith came to the Americas it retained various traditions but often mixed with other faiths. Some surviving traditions include possession by the dead to learn wisdom from the ancestors, and working with Nkisi. The religions that have preserved Kongo traditions include Palo Mayombe, Kumina, Haitian Vodou, and Candomblé.\n\n"}
{"id": "26861956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26861956", "title": "Kumhar", "text": "Kumhar\n\nKumhar is a caste or community in India and Pakistan. \"Kumhar\" literally means potter in Indian languages.\n\nDepending upon the subgroup or region, in India they are classified as both Other Backward Class and the Scheduled Caste.\n\nThe Kumhars derive their name from the Sanskrit word \"Kumbhakar\" meaning earthen-pot maker. Dravidian languages conform to the same meaning of the term \"Kumbhakar\". The term \"Bhande\", used to designate the Kumhar caste, also means pot. The potters of Amritsar are called \"Kulal\" or \"Kalal\", the term used in Yajurveda to denote the potter class.\n\nA section of Hindu Kumhars honorifically call themselves \"Prajapati\" after Vedic Prajapati, the Lord, who created the universe.\n\nAccording to a legend prevalent among Kumhars \n\nThere is an opinion that this is because of their traditional creative skills of pottery, they are regarded as \"Prajapati\".\n\nThe Potters are classified into Hindu and Muslim cultural groups. Among Hindus, inclusion of Artisan castes in Shudra Varna is indisputable. The potters belong to the Shudra group of artisans of Hindu society. They are further divided into two groups-clean caste and unclean caste .\n\nAmong the Kumhars are groups such as the Gujrati Kumhar, Rana Kumhar, Lad and Telangi. They all, bear these names after different cultural linguistic zones or caste groups but are termed as one caste cluster.\n\nThe Kumhars of Chamba are expert in making pitchers, Surahis, vessels, grain jars, toys for entertainment and earthen lamps. Some of these pots bear paintings and designs also.\n\nKumhars are found in Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Sholapur and Pune. They speak in Marathi among themselves but in Marathi as well as Hindi with outsiders. They use Devnagari script for communication. There are Kumbhars who do not belong to Maratha clan lives in Maharashtra and have occupation of making idols and pots. They are aware of the Hindu Varna hierarchy and consider themselves to be the Shudra, the lowest rank.\n\nHathretie and Chakretie (or Challakad) Kumhars are found in Madhya Pradesh. Hathretie Kumhars are called so because they traditionally moved the \"chak\" (potter's wheel) by hands (\"hath\"). Gola is a common surname among Kumhars in Madhya Pradesh. They are categorised as a Scheduled Caste in Chhatarpur, Datia, Panna, Satna, Tikamgarh, Sidhi and Shahdol districts but elsewhere in the state they are listed among Other Backward Classes.\n\nIn Rajasthan, Kumhars (Also known as Prajapat) have six sub-groups namely Mathera, Kumavat, Kheteri, Marwara, Timria and Mawalia. In the social hierarchy of Rajasthan, they are placed in the middle of the higher castes and the Harijans. They follow endogamy with clan exogamy.\n\nIn Bengal Kumhars are one among the ceremonially pure castes. The Jagannathia Kumhars of Orissa, who provide vessels for the rice distribution in Jagannath temple, have much higher rank in the society than the Kumhars of Central India.\n\nThe Kannuaja Kumhars are considered to be a Shudra caste in both Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Although they sometimes use the term \"Pandit\" with their names, they do so as a suffix rather than prefixing it in the honorific style that is used by Brahmins. The Magahiya Kumhars are treated little inferior to the Kanaujias and the Turkaha (Gadhere) Kumhars rank with untouchables.\n\nThe Prajapati are among 17 OBC communities that were proposed for Scheduled Caste status by the Samajwadi Party-controlled Government of Uttar Pradesh in 2016. However, this proposal, which relates to votebank politics, has been stayed by the courts; the prior attempt had been rejected by the Government of India.\n\nKumhars are listed among the Other Backward Classes of Gujarat, where they are listed with the following communities: Prajapati (Gujjar Prajapati, Varia Prajapati, Sorthia Prajapati), Sorathiya Prajapati.\n\n"}
{"id": "312038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312038", "title": "Kṣitigarbha", "text": "Kṣitigarbha\n\nKṣitigarbha (Sanskrit क्षितिगर्भ / \"\", ) is a bodhisattva primarily revered in East Asian Buddhism and usually depicted as a Buddhist monk. His name may be translated as \"Earth Treasury\", \"Earth Store\", \"Earth Matrix\", or \"Earth Womb\". Kṣitigarbha is known for his vow to take responsibility for the instruction of all beings in the six worlds between the death of Gautama Buddha and the rise of Maitreya, as well as his vow not to achieve Buddhahood until all hells are emptied. He is therefore often regarded as the bodhisattva of hell-beings, as well as the guardian of children and patron deity of deceased children and aborted fetuses in Japanese culture, where he is known as Jizō or Ojizō-sama, as a protector of children.\n\nUsually depicted as a monk with a halo around his shaved head, he carries a staff to force open the gates of hell and a wish-fulfilling jewel to light up the darkness.\n\nKṣitigarbha is one of the four principal bodhisattvas in East Asian Mahayana Buddhism. The others are Samantabhadra, Manjusri, and Avalokiteśvara.\n\nAt the pre-Tang dynasty grottos in Dunhuang and Longmen, he is depicted in a classical bodhisattva form. After the Tang, he became increasingly depicted as a monk carrying Buddhist prayer beads and a staff.\n\nHis full name in Chinese is \"Dayuan Dizang Pusa\" (), or \"Bodhisattva King Kṣitigarbha of the Great Vow,\" pronounced \"Daigan Jizō Bosatsu\" in Japanese and \"Jijang Bosal\" in Korean. This name is a reference to his pledge, as recorded in the sutras, to take responsibility for the instruction of all beings in the six worlds in the era between the parinirvana of the Buddha and the rise of Maitreya. Because of this important role, shrines to Kṣitigarbha often occupy a central role in temples, especially within the memorial halls or mausoleums.\n\nThe story of Kṣitigarbha was first described in the \"Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva Pūrvapraṇidhāna Sūtra\", one of the most popular Mahayana sutras. This sutra is said to have been spoken by the Buddha towards the end of his life to the beings of the Trāyastriṃśa Heaven as a mark of gratitude and remembrance for his beloved mother, Maya. The \"Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva Pūrvapraṇidhāna Sūtra\" begins, \"Thus have I heard. Once the Buddha was abiding in Trayastrimsas Heaven in order to expound the Dharma to his mother.\"\n\nThe \"Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva Pūrvapraṇidhāna Sūtra\" was first translated from Sanskrit into Chinese between 695-700 CE, during the Tang dynasty, by the Tripiṭaka master Śikṣānanda, a Buddhist monk from Khotan who also provided a new translation of the \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\" and the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\". However, some scholars have suspected that instead of being translated, this text may have originated in China, since no Sanskrit manuscripts of this text have been found. Part of the reason for suspicion is that the text advocates filial piety, which was stereotypically associated with Chinese culture. It stated that Kṣitigarbha practised filial piety as a mortal, which eventually led to making great vows to save all sentient beings. Since then, other scholars such as Gregory Schopen have pointed out that Indian Buddhism also had traditions of filial piety. Currently there is no definitive evidence indicating either an Indian or Chinese origin for the text.\n\nIn the \"Kṣitigarbha Sūtra\", the Buddha states that in the distant past eons, Kṣitigarbha was a maiden of the Brahmin caste by the name of \"Sacred Girl\". This maiden was deeply troubled upon the death of her mother - who had often been slanderous towards the Three Jewels. To save her mother from the great tortures of hell, the girl sold whatever she had and used the money to buy offerings that she offered daily to the Buddha of her time, known as the Buddha of the Flower of Meditation and Enlightenment. She prayed fervently that her mother be spared the pains of hell and appealed to the Buddha for help.\n\nWhile she was pleading for help at the temple, she heard the Buddha telling her to go home, sit down, and recite his name if she wanted to know where her mother was. She did as she was told and her consciousness was transported to a Hell realm, where she met a guardian who informed her that through her fervent prayers and pious offerings, her mother had accumulated much merit and had already ascended to heaven. Sacred Girl was greatly relieved and would have been extremely happy, but the sight of the suffering she had seen in Hell touched her heart. She vowed to do her best to relieve beings of their suffering in her future lives for kalpas.\n\nThere is a legend about how Kṣitigarbha manifested himself in China and chose his bodhimaṇḍa to be Mount Jiuhua, one of the Four Sacred Mountains of China.\n\nDuring the reign of Emperor Ming of Han, Buddhism started to flourish, reaching its peak in the Tang and eventually spreading to Korea. At the time, monks and scholars arrived from those countries to seek the dharma in China. One of these pilgrims was a former prince from Silla named Kim Gyo-gak, who became a monk under the Chinese name Dizang \"Kṣitigarbha,\" pronounced \"Jijang\" in Korean. He went to Mount Jiuhua in present-day Anhui. After ascending, he decided to build a hut in a deep mountain area so that he could cultivate the dharma.\n\nAccording to records, Jijang was bitten by a poisonous snake but he did not move, thus letting the snake go. A woman happened to pass by and gave the monk medicines to cure him of the venom, as well as a spring on her son's behalf. For a few years, Jijang continued to meditate in his hut, until one day, a scholar named Chu-Ke led a group of friends and family to visit the mountain. Noticing the monk meditating in the hut, they went and took a look at his condition. They had noticed that his bowl did not contain any food, and that his hair had grown back.\n\nTaking pity on the monk, Chu-Ke decided to build a temple as an offering to him. The whole group descended the mountain immediately to discuss plans to build the temple. Mount Jiuhua was also property of a wealthy person called Elder Wen-Ke, who obliged to build a temple on his mountain. Therefore, Wen-Ke and the group ascended the mountain once more and asked Jijang how much land he needed.\n\nJijang replied that he needed a piece of land that could be covered fully by his kasaya. Initially believing that a piece of sash could not provide enough land to build a temple, they were surprised when Jijang threw the kasaya in the air, and the robe expanded in size, covering the entire mountain. Elder Wen-Ke had then decided to renounce the entire mountain to Jijang, and became his protector. Sometime later, Wen-Ke's son also left secular life to become a monk.\n\nJijang lived in Mount Jiuhua for 75 years before passing away at the age of 99. Three years after his nirvana, his tomb was opened, only to reveal that the body had not decayed. Because Jijang led his wayplace with much difficulty, most people had the intuition to believe that he was indeed an incarnation of Kṣitigarbha.\n\nJijang's well-preserved, dehydrated body may still be viewed today at the monastery he built on Mount Jiuhua.\n\nIn Buddhist iconography, Kṣitigarbha is typically depicted with a shaven head, dressed in a monk's simple robes (unlike most other bodhisattvas, who are dressed like Indian royalty). In his left hand, Kṣitigarbha holds a cintamani; in his right hand, he holds a staff (called \"shakujo\" 錫杖 in Japanese), which is used to alert insects and small animals of his approach, so that he will not accidentally harm them. This staff is traditionally carried by Buddhist monks. In the Chinese tradition, Kṣitigarbha is sometimes depicted wearing a crown like the one worn by Vairocana. His image is similar to that of the fictional character Tang Sanzang from the classical novel \"Journey to the West\", so observers sometimes mistake Kṣitigarbha for the latter.\n\nLike other bodhisattvas, Kṣitigarbha usually is seen standing on a lotus base, symbolising his release from rebirth. Kṣitigarbha's face and head are also idealised, featuring the third eye, elongated ears and the other standard attributes of a buddha.\n\nTōsen-ji in Katsushika, Tokyo, contains the \"Bound Jizō\" of Ōoka Tadasuke fame, dating from the Edo period. When petitions are requested before Jizō, the petitioner ties a rope about the statue. When the wish is granted, the petitioner unties the rope. At the new year, the ropes of the ungranted wishes are cut by the temple priest.\n\nThe vandalism of a Jizō statue is the central theme of \"The Locker\", a 2004 Japanese horror and thriller film directed by Kei Horie.\n\nAnother category of iconographic depiction is Kṣitigarbha as the Lord of the Six Ways, an allegorical representation of the Six Paths of Rebirth of the Desire realm (rebirth into hell, or as pretas, animals, asuras, men, and devas). The Six Paths are often depicted as six rays or beams radiating from the bodhisattva and accompanied by figurative representations of the Six Paths. Many of these depictions in China can be found in Shaanxi province, perhaps a result of Sanjie Jiao worship in the area. A Japanese variation of this depiction is the Six Jizo, six full sculptural manifestations of the bodhisattva. An example of this can be found in Konjikidō, the ‘Hall of Gold,’ in the Chūson-ji temple.\n\nMount Jiuhua in Anhui is regarded as Kṣitigarbha's bodhimaṇḍa. It is one of the Four Sacred Buddhism Mountains in China, and at one time housed more than 300 temples. Today, 95 of these are open to the public. The mountain is a popular destination for pilgrims offering dedications to Kṣitigarbha.\n\nIn some areas, the admixture of traditional religions has led to Kṣitigarbha being also regarded as a Taoist deity, albeit his duties differ to what Kṣitigarbha does.\n\nIn Japan, Kṣitigarbha, known as \"Jizō\", or respectfully as \"Ojizō-sama\", is one of the most loved of all Japanese divinities. His statues are a common sight, especially by roadsides and in graveyards. Traditionally, he is seen as the guardian of children, and in particular, children who died before their parents. He has been worshipped as the guardian of the souls of \"mizuko\", the souls of stillborn, miscarried, or aborted fetuses in the ritual of mizuko kuyō (水子供養 \"offering to water children\"). In Japanese mythology, it is said that the souls of children who die before their parents are unable to cross the mythical Sanzu River on their way to the afterlife because they have not had the chance to accumulate enough good deeds and because they have made the parents suffer. It is believed that Jizō saves these souls from having to pile stones eternally on the bank of the river as penance, by hiding them from demons in his robe, and letting them hear mantras.\n\nJizō statues are sometimes accompanied by a little pile of stones and pebbles, put there by people in the hope that it would shorten the time children have to suffer in the underworld. (The act is derived from the tradition of building stupas as an act of merit-making.) The statues can sometimes be seen wearing tiny children's clothing or bibs, or with toys, put there by grieving parents to help their lost ones and hoping that Jizō would specially protect them. Sometimes the offerings are put there by parents to thank Jizō for saving their children from a serious illness. His features are commonly made more baby-like to resemble the children he protects.\n\nAs Jizō is seen as the saviour of souls who have to suffer in the underworld, his statues are common in cemeteries. He is also believed to be one of the protective deities of travellers, the \"dōsojin\", and roadside statues of Jizō are a common sight in Japan. Firefighters are also believed to be under his protection.\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism, the story of a bhikkhu named Phra Malai with similar qualities to Kṣitigarbha is well known throughout Southeast Asia, especially in Thailand and Laos. Legend has it that he was an arhat from Sri Lanka who achieved great supernatural powers through his own merit and meditation. He is also honoured as a successor to Mahāmoggallāna, the Buddha's disciple foremost for his supernatural attainments. In the story, this pious and compassionate monk descends to Hell to give teachings & comfort the suffering hell-beings there. He also learns how the hell-beings are punished according to their sins in the different hells.\n\nIn Shingon Buddhism and other schools of Chinese Esoteric Buddhism, the mantra of Kṣitigarbha comes from the \"Treasury of Mantras\" section of the \"Mahavairocana Tantra\". The effect of this mantra is producing the \"Samadhi Realm of Adamantine Indestructible Conduct.\" This mantra is the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOm! Ha ha ha! O wondrous one! svāhā!\n\nfalling freely<br> \ntears and rain<br> \non the garden Jizo\n\n<nowiki>***************************************</nowiki>\n\n蛞蝓に口を吸われた石地蔵\n\n\"Namekuji-ni\"<br> \n\"kuchi-o suwareta\"<br> \n\"ishi-jizō\"\n\nThe stone image of Jizo<br> \nkissed on the mouth<br> \nby a slug<br>\n\n<nowiki>***************************************</nowiki>\n\n雀の子地蔵の袖にかくれけり\n\n\"Suzume no ko\"<br> \n\"Jizō no sode ni\"<br> \n\"kakurekeri\"\n\nThe young sparrows<br> \nreturn into Jizo's sleeve<br> \nfor sanctuary<br> \n\nなでしこや地蔵菩薩の跡先に\n\n\"Nadeshiko ya\"<br> \n\"Jizō Bosatsu no\"<br> \n\"ato saki ni\"\n\nBlooming pinks<br> \nbehind and in front<br> \nof Saint Jizo<br>\n\n<nowiki>***************************************</nowiki>\n\n秋の暮辻の地蔵に油さす\n\n\"Aki-no kure\"<br> \n\"tsuji-no Jizō-ni\"<br> \n\"abura sasu\"\n\nIn autumn dusk<br> \nat the wayside shrine for the Jizo image<br> \nI pour more votive oil<br>\n\nThe Legend of the Humming of the Sai-no-Kawara, by Lafcadio Hearn:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1133166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1133166", "title": "Lawrence Bush", "text": "Lawrence Bush\n\nLawrence Bush (born 1951) is the author of several books of Jewish fiction and non-fiction, including \"Waiting for God: The Spiritual Explorations of a Reluctant Atheist\" and \"Bessie: A Novel of Love and Revolution\".\n\nHe was born in New York City, attended Springfield Gardens High School, and holds a B.A. from City College of New York. In addition to writing and editing, he has worked as a puppeteer and school music teacher.\n\nBush edits \"Jewish Currents\", an independent, progressive magazine founded in 1946 and promotes Jewish identity as “a counterculture . . . in many ways antithetical to what drives our country today”. \nHe is also the editor of the daily blog \"JEWDAYO,\" discussing events from Jewish life and history on the anniversary of their occurrence. In 2011, the entries from the first year of the blog, 2010, were collected into a printed daybook \"Jewdayo\".\n\nBush is the former editor of \"Reconstructionism Today\", the quarterly magazine of the Jewish Reconstructionist movement. He was co-editor of \"Jews.\", an arts magazine and mail-art experience publIshed from 1999-2004. His writings have appeared in the \"New York Times\", \"Tikkun\", \"Moment\", \"Reform Judaism\" and \"Mad\" magazine, among others. He provided updating and commentary for the millennial edition of Leo Rosten's classic, \"The Joys of Yiddish\".\n\nBush served for more than a decade as speechwriter for Rabbi Alexander Schindler, the late leader of Reform Judaism in America. Bush has described himself as \"an atheist who has nevertheless worked intimately in Jewish religious institutions as a writer and editor for much of my adult life.\n\nIn 2011, together with cartoonist Richard Codor, Bush created the humorous \"Babushkin's Catalogue of Jewish Inventions\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3230611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3230611", "title": "Lecrae", "text": "Lecrae\n\nLecrae Devaughn Moore (born October 9, 1979), mononymously known as Lecrae, is an American Christian hip hop recording artist, songwriter, record producer, and actor. He is the president, co-owner and co-founder of the independent record label Reach Records, and the co-founder and president of the now-defunct non-profit organization ReachLife Ministries. To date, he has released seven studio albums and three mixtapes as a solo artist, and has released three studio albums, a remix album, and one EP as the leader of the hip hop group 116 Clique. He produced much of his earlier material along with other early Reach Records releases. Lecrae, in reference to his label as a Christian rapper, has stated that his music is just hip hop, though it reflects his Christian faith. In May 2016, Lecrae signed to Columbia Records in a joint deal between his label and Columbia.\n\nLecrae's debut recording, \"Real Talk\", was released in 2004 through Reach Records. His third solo album, \"Rebel\", released in 2008, became the first Christian hip hop album to reach No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" Gospel chart. \"Rehab\" followed in 2010, and Lecrae began attracting mainstream attention when he performed at the 2011 BET Hip Hop Awards Cypher and appeared on the Statik Selektah song \"Live & Let Live\" from \"Population Control\". On May 10, 2012, Lecrae released his first mixtape, \"Church Clothes\", which was hosted by DJ Don Cannon. Considered his breakthrough into mainstream hip hop, the mixtape was downloaded over 100,000 times in less than 48 hours. His sixth studio album, \"Gravity\", came out on September 4, 2012, and has been called the most important album in Christian hip hop history by Rapzilla and \"Atlanta Daily World\". The album debuted as the best-selling album overall in the iTunes Store, No. 3 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and won the Grammy Award for Best Gospel Album at the 2013 Grammy Awards, marking the first time that a hip hop artist received this award. Lecrae released his seventh album, \"Anomaly\", on September 9, 2014. It debuted at No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" 200 with 88,587 copies sold through the first week, the first album to top both the \"Billboard\" 200 and the Gospel chart simultaneously.\n\nLecrae received nominations for Artist of the Year at the 43rd, 44th, 45th, and 46th GMA Dove Awards, the last of which he won, and for Best Gospel Artist at the 2013 and 2015 BET Awards, the latter of which he won, a first for a rap artist. Lecrae's filmography includes a role in the television film \"A Cross to Bear\" (2012) and a brief role as Dr. Malmquist in the comedy film \"Believe Me\" (2014). In the social sphere, Lecrae has advocated for the preservation of responsibility and fatherhood as a value among men in the United States, and in 2013 partnered with Dwyane Wade and Joshua DuBois in the multimedia initiative \"This Is Fatherhood\" as part of the Obama administration's Fatherhood and Mentoring Initiative. He has also presented on and written about racial tension and injustice in the United States.\n\nBorn and raised by his single mother in Southern Houston, Texas, Lecrae moved often early in life, living in San Diego, Denver, and Dallas. He has stated that he would go to church with his Christian grandmother, but considered it for \"older people\" and said it \"wasn't for me.\" Lecrae never met his father, who ended up becoming a drug addict. In the song \"Good, Bad, Ugly\", Lecrae reveals that when he was almost eight, a female baby sitter sexually molested him, an incident which Lecrae believes distorted his view of sexuality, influencing his later promiscuous lifestyle. Experiencing abuse and neglect during his childhood, Lecrae used his ability to rap as a source of significance. According to Lecrae, his grandmother would not allow him to watch rap music videos on television, but he would sneak in late at night. It was in these videos that Lecrae found individuals to look up to. Lecrae states that \"there were no Martin Luther Kings or Malcolm Xs, they had all passed away so I had Tupac.\" After being shown a gun by his uncle, Lecrae began looking up to gangsters and turned to a life of crime. Lecrae remembers taking a BB gun and standing in the street pointing it to a car, frightening the female driver, simply for fun. At 11 years old, he started writing music for a rhythm and blues group formed by some neighbors. His first track, written for a neighborhood crush, emulated the style of Tupac, Outkast, and A Tribe Called Quest. At the age of 16, he started taking drugs, fighting, was arrested in high school for stealing, and eventually ended up on a gang list. Lecrae tried \"pretty much every drug there was to try\" except for heroin and crack cocaine.\n\nAccording to CNN, he became a drug dealer and used the Bible that his grandmother gave him as a good luck charm. After being arrested for drug possession, the officer saw the Bible and let Lecrae go on a promise that he would agree to live by it. He eventually turned from drugs to alcohol consumption and a party lifestyle and became a \"misfit of a person.\" He has described himself during this period as a thrill-seeker, he would pull stunts such as jumping from a third-story building, and gained the nickname \"Crazy 'Crae\". Encouraged by his concerned mother to read his Bible, Lecrae said that \"I remember ripping the pages out of the Bible and throwing it on the floor. I don't want this Bible. I couldn't wrap my hands around this being true or real.\" He began to drink and smoke more and look for more women \"as the emptiness became more profound.\" At age 17, his personal, financial, and relationship troubles convinced him that he was at a \"dead end.\" Wanting to do what he considered the mature thing, through the influence of his grandmother, he desired to start attending church. A girl Lecrae attended high school with was there, and she invited him to a Bible study, where he met Darragh, his future wife. Lecrae was surprised to find that the members of the Bible study \"were just people like me. They read the same books and listened to the same music. Their character was just different. They were loving and that's really what drew me in.\" Lecrae says that it was at age 19 that he finally decided to live for God, though \"it wasn't overnight\" and he \"spent a lot of time making bad decisions.\"\n\nLecrae attended a conference after being invited by a friend, though Lecrae admits that his interest was to meet girls and experience the big city. When he arrived at the conference, Lecrae was awed by the performance of the Christian hip-hop group The Cross Movement. Lecrae says that he saw \"guys who had been shot from being in gangs, girls who were extremely promiscuous in the past, I see rappers, dancers and singers; I see people who came from the same background I came from, and they still embodied who they were culturally, but they were all in love with Jesus and I had never seen that before.\" After hearing Pastor James White of Christ Our King Community Church speak on how Christians are bought with a price and the suffering that Jesus underwent in the Crucifixion, Lecrae says that he remembers articulating \"God get me out of this, don't kill me; do whatever you have to do to get me out of this, just don't kill me.\" Later, Lecrae was driving on a highway when he turned too quickly and his car went into a roll. He had no seatbelt and the roof and windshield of the car caved in, his glasses were molded into the frame of the car, but he survived completely uninjured. Lecrae cites this incident as the one which convinced him to commit his life to Christ. Lecrae went back to his college, the University of North Texas, with a printed version of his testimony to pass out on campus. He started volunteering and performing at a juvenile detention center, and the reception he received convinced him that offering \"hope and encouragement\" through music was what he wanted to do. However, Lecrae still struggled in his faith − as revealed in \"Good, Bad, Ugly\", in 2002 he impregnated a then-girlfriend. Rather than risk scandal, he and his girlfriend had the baby aborted, a decision he says he now deeply regrets. In the same song, he revealed that he had been sexually abused by a babysitter as a child.\n\nFive years after his conversion, Lecrae teamed up with Ben Washer to found Reach Records, and at the age of 25 he released his first album, \"Real Talk\". The following year it was re-released by Cross Movement Records and reached No. 29 on the \"Billboard\" Gospel Albums chart, staying on the chart for 12 weeks. The album later received a nomination at the 2007 Stellar Awards. In 2005, Lecrae co-founded the non-profit organization ReachLife Ministries (no longer operational since April 2015), which equipped local Christian leaders with tools, media, curriculum, and conferences that were based on the teachings of the Bible and relevant to hip-hop culture. Also in 2005, the debut album of 116 Clique, \"The Compilation Album\", was released.\n\nAfter the success of \"Real Talk\", Lecrae then released his second studio album on August 15, 2006. \"After the Music Stops\" charted at No. 5 on the \"Billboard\" Gospel Albums chart, No. 7 on the \"Billboard\" Christian Albums chart and No. 16 on the \"Billboard\" Heatseeker Album charts, and received a nomination for a Dove Award, as was the single \"Jesus Muzik\", featuring Trip Lee. In 2007, 116 Clique released its second album, \"13 Letters\", reaching No. 10 on the Gospel Albums chart and No. 29 on the Christian Albums chart. 116 Clique also released the remix EP \"Amped\", which peaked at No. 24 on the Gospel Albums chart.\n\nOn October 8, 2008, Lecrae's third album, \"Rebel\", entered the \"Billboard\" charts at No. 60 with 9,800 units sold and topped the \"Billboard\" Gospel Album charts for two weeks, the first hip-hop album to do so. It also charted at No. 2 on the Christian Albums chart and No. 15 on the Top Independent charts. In 2009, the album received a nomination at the 40th Dove Awards, as did the Flame song \"Joyful Noise\", which featured Lecrae and John Reilly. 2009 also saw Lecrae's first film role, when he appeared in the documentary \"Uprise Presents: Word from the Street\" by the UK-based TV channel OHTV.\n\nOn February 5, 2010, Lecrae released a charity single entitled \"Far Away\", a tribute to the victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake. Lecrae promised that all proceeds from the single's sales would go directly to the Haiti relief effort.\n\nOn July 7, Lecrae announced on the Reach Records website that the title of his new album would be \"Rehab\". On August 5, 2010, Rapzilla shared a new song from Lecrae called \"Amp It Up\". Lecrae subsequently clarified on his Twitter account that the song was not a single from \"Rehab\", but rather a theme song for Kanakuk Kamps, a chain of Christian camps for which he writes songs annually. On August 31, 2010, Reach Records revealed the track list for \"Rehab\", released it for preorder, and premiered a promotional video \"Idols\". A second promotional video, entitled \"I Am Dust\", debuted on September 9, 2010. Upon its release, \"Rehab\" hit No. 16 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, making it one of the highest selling Christian hip hop albums at that time.\n\nOn September 22, 2010, Rapzilla reported that the \"Rehab\" packaging came with an advertisement encouraging buyers to purchase another upcoming album, \"\", which saw release on January 11, 2011. It included 11 new songs and featured several other Christian artists such as Thi'sl and Swoope. \"Rehab: The Overdose\" debuted at No. 15 on the \"Billboard\" 200. On August 29, 2011, Lecrae announced through Twitter that on September 27, 2011, he would release a special edition of \"Rehab\", entitled \"Rehab: Deluxe Edition\". On the same day, 116 Clique released their fourth album, entitled \"Man Up\".\n\nOn September 7, 2011, Rapzilla announced that Lecrae would be featured on the BET Hip Hop Awards Cypher on October 11, 2011. Lecrae gained popularity after his verse on the cypher trended nationwide on Twitter and was featured on AllHipHop. Lecrae then appeared as a feature on Statik Selektah's song \"Live and Let Live\" from his \"Population Control\" album.\n\nOn February 16, 2012, Rapzilla announced that Lecrae was preparing to release his first mixtape, \"Church Clothes\". On May 3, 2012, Lecrae premiered his music video for the title track of his \"Church Clothes\" mixtape online on \"XXL\". The video was noted for including cameos by Kendrick Lamar and DJ Premier, and attracted almost 20,000 views in less than a day. Hosted by Don Cannon, the mixtape featured the song \"Darkest Hour\", in which Lecrae collaborated with No Malice of Clipse. \"Church Clothes\" was downloaded more than 100,000 times in less than 48 hours on DatPiff.com, and in less than a month reached 250,000 downloads, a platinum rating on the website. On June 25, 2012, a remastered version of the mixtape, without DJ Don Cannon, was released as an EP for sale on iTunes. Due to issues with sampling, this version was much shorter with only seven songs. Upon its release, the EP debuted on the \"Billboard\" charts at No. 10 on both the Christian Albums and Gospel Albums charts for the week of July 14, 2012.\n\nOn April 27, Lecrae announced that his next album, \"Gravity\", was to be released in late 2012, and recording sessions began in May. On June 21, 2012 Lecrae appeared live at the Apple Store in Chicago for Black Music Month. The release date for \"Gravity\", September 4, 2012, as well as the album artwork was announced on July 19, 2012 via Rapzilla.\n\nOn August 30, 2012, the rapper Saigon announced that Lecrae would be one of the featured artists on his upcoming album \"\", due November 6, 2012.\n\n\"Gravity\" was released on September 4, 2012 to critical acclaim. Upon its release, \"Gravity\" debuted at No. 3 on the \"Billboard\" 200, with 72,000 units sold. The album also debuted at No. 1 on the Christian, Gospel, Independent, and Rap Album charts, No. 3 on the Digital Albums chart, and 24 on the Canadian Albums Chart. After the iTunes deluxe version of the album hit No. 1 on that vendors charts, and the regular version at number No. 2, \"Time\" wrote an article about Lecrae and his success with the album.\n\nOn November 7, 2013, Lecrae released his second mixtape, entitled \"Church Clothes Vol. 2\", hosted once again by Don Cannon. The mixtape debuted at No. 21 on the \"Billboard\" 200, No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" Christian Albums and Gospel Albums charts, and No. 3 on the Rap Albums chart. On Datpiff.com, the album was download over 146,000 times by November 26, 2013.\n\nOn June 3, 2014 Lecrae announced through social media that his seventh studio album would be titled \"Anomaly\". The album released on September 9, 2014. It is supported by the single \"Nuthin\". It debuted at No. 1 on the \"Billboard 200\" with over 88,000 copies sold through the first week. It is the first time an album tops both the \"Billboard\" 200 and the Gospel Albums chart. Lecrae also became the fifth artist following Chris Tomlin (2013), TobyMac (2012), LeAnn Rimes (1997) and Bob Carlisle (1997) to score a number one album on both Christian Albums and the \"Billboard\" 200. \"Anomaly\" also marks the sixth time that Lecrae topped the Gospel Albums chart and the fifth time he topped the Christian Albums chart. In its second week of sales, the album sold 31,000 copies, bringing the total to 120,000 copies sold. In its third week of sales, the album sold another 17,000 copies, bringing the total to 137,000 copies. \"Anomaly\" went on to sell over 500,000 copies, and was certified Gold by the RIAA on August 26, 2016. As a reward to fans for their support in helping his album go No. 1 on \"Billboard\", Lecrae released a new song, \"Non-Fiction\", as a free download on September 17. The song was subsequently released on October 21, 2014 in the iTunes store.\n\nTo promote \"Anomaly\", on September 18, 2014, Lecrae appeared on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, performing alongside The Roots, the program's house band. He made a subsequent appearance the following year, on January 9, 2015, this time as a featured performer. On January 15, 2016, Lecrae released his third mixtape \"Church Clothes 3\". The mixtape debuted at No. 12 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and No. 1 on the Christian, Rap, and Independent charts, selling some 29,207 units.\n\nIn August 2015, Lecrae announced an upcoming memoir titled \"Unashamed\", which on May 3, 2016 was published through B&H Publishing Group, a subsidiary of LifeWay Christian Resources. It opened at No. 19 on The New York Times Best Seller list. In May 2016, Lecrae signed to Columbia Records, which will release future recordings in conjunction with Reach. Lecrae explained that he signed this deal in order to increase the international audience for Reach, since his label peaked nationally with the release of \"Anomaly\". In September 2016, Reach Records announced Lecrae's upcoming tour schedule, The Destination Tour (You're Accepted), which will run through October and November. On October 21, 2016, Lecrae released the single \"Can't Stop Me Now (Destination)\", the lead single from his upcoming studio album. On January 27, 2017 he released the second single \"Blessings\" featuring Ty Dolla Sign. Lecrae followed this up by with the third single \"I'll Find You\" featuring Tori Kelly on June 8, 2017. Then, on June 23, 2017, he released a promotional single \"Hammer Time\" featuring 1K Phew. On August 7, 2017, Lecrae announced his eighth studio album, \"All Things Work Together\", his major label debut. The album was released on September 22, 2017.\n\nOn May 24, 2018, he announced in a DJ Booth editorial that he and producer Zaytoven would release a collaborative album called, \"Let the Trap Say Amen\". The album was released on June 22, 2018.\n\nLecrae's musical genre is predominantly Southern hip hop, and has been described as falling under the styles of crunk, gangsta rap, and hardcore hip hop. On his third release, \"Rebel\", Lecrae slowed down his style on many songs. \"Rehab\" was noted for its stylistic diversity, particularly on the song \"Children of the Light\", which featured Dillavou and Sonny Sandoval and incorporated rock, and reggae influences. With the release \"Gravity\", \"Billboard\" described Lecrae as incorporating reggae and soul influences into his \"signature brash sound.\"\n\nRegarding which musical artists have influenced him, Lecrae, in an interview with \"Essence\", cited Tupac, Nas, DJ Quik, Scarface, and The Cross Movement. In an interview with \"The Christian Post\", Lecrae listed his top favorite five hip hop artists as Tupac, Nas, The Ambassador, Snoop Dogg, and, though for his business approach rather than his music, Jay Z. Lecrae also names Outkast and Lauryn Hill as major influences, particularly their albums \"Aquemini\" and \"The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill\", respectively, and considers Hill's song \"Adam Lives in Theory\" as the top song that nourishes him spiritually. In the song \"Non-Fiction\", he lists the Tunnel Rats alongside The Cross Movement as an influence when he was newly converted to Christianity. Theologically, Lecrae follows the Reformed tradition of theology and is considered an influential figure in the New Calvinist movement. He cites Tommy Nelson, John MacArthur, and John Piper, among others, as early influences on his Christian faith, and Lecrae even titled one of his hit songs, \"Don't Waste Your Life\", after the book of the same name by Piper. Lecrae explains that through Nelson, MacArthur, and Piper, he subsequently discovered Spurgeon, Calvin, and Francis Schaeffer, the last of whom Lecrae calls his \"personal hero\". Other theologians cited by Lecrae include Tim Keller, Andy Crouch, Randy Alcorn, and Abraham Kuyper. He also looks to Martin Luther King, Jr. for inspiration on working out faith in social issues.\n\nHe frequently tells the press that \"My music is not Christian, Lecrae is.\" He told \"Miami New Times\"s Crossfade that \"I think Christian is a wonderful noun, but a terrible adjective. Are there Christian shoes, Christian clothes, Christian plumbers, Christian pipes? I think if you're going to, you should label it hip-hop... hip-hop is a particular poetic style. Labeling it with the faith assumes that the song is going to be some kind of sermon, but there's a lot of social and political things that I don't think make it gospel or Christian music.\" He also stated, \"I like to wrap my mind around a total situation. I'm a social anthropologist. If I never been homeless, let me try to be homeless for a week and soak up that information. More like a method actor. So for me it's spending time with people and talking about things from their perspective.\"\n\nBrooklyn Nets guard Jeremy Lin recommended Lecrae and Hillsong in an interview when asked about his pre-game music. Former NFL quarterback Tim Tebow and professional wrestler Ezekiel Jackson have also endorsed Lecrae. During March 2014, Lecrae signed a ten-day contract with the Atlanta Hawks, and on April 4, 2014, he performed live at Philips Arena after the Hawks game. \"Dum Dum\", a song by Tedashii featuring Lecrae, was used on an episode of \"So You Think You Can Dance\". Lecrae also created the theme song for a new ESPN \"SportsCenter\" block called \"Coast to Coast\".\n\nIn 2011, 116 Clique and ReachLife Ministries, both headed by Lecrae, launched a media campaign entitled \"Man Up\", intended to mentor male urban youths on fatherhood and biblical manhood. It features concert tours and a curriculum centered on a short film and a studio album, both titled \"Man Up\", and since 2012 has also featured a string of conference events.\n\nIn May 2013, Lecrae partnered with NBA player Dwyane Wade, filmmaker Art Hooker, and Joshua DuBois, the former head of the Office of Faith Based and Neighborhood Partnerships under the Obama administration, to create the national media campaign \"This Is Fatherhood\", an initiative \"devoted to restoring America's commitment to healthy fatherhood.\" The campaign began on May 1 with a \"This is Fatherhood Challenge\", in which contestants could submit videos, songs, and essays about fatherhood through June 10. The winners received cash prizes and a trip to Washington, D.C., for a ceremony on Father's Day. In addition, Lecrae offered studio time and mentoring to the grand prize winner. Lecrae, Wade, DuBois, Jay Z, and U.S. President Barack Obama all made appearances in the campaign's promotional public service announcements.\n\nLecrae has also contributed op-ed articles to \"Billboard\" dealing with race relations in the United States, including the 2014 Ferguson unrest, 2015 Charleston church shooting, and 2016 shootings of Alton Stirling, Philando Castile, and six Dallas police officers. In these articles, Lecrae has called for understanding and empathy across racial divides and willingness to listen to the oppressed, and also pointed out the need for spiritual healing through Jesus Christ. In mid 2016, Lecrae did a talk about racial reconciliation at Yale University, titled \"Knowledge through Narrative: Bridging the Racial Divide in America\". He also spoke on hip hop culture at a Nashville TEDx conference, decrying the misogyny and violence rampant in much of hip hop's lyrics but advocating for hip hop to be used as an agent for social change. At the 2016 BET Hip Hop Awards, Lecrae performed an original composition addressing racial injustice in the United States, referencing the shooting of Philando Castile. On October 20, 2016, Lecrae wrote in The Huffington Post that he has been struggling with depression and doubt, which was partly caused by the backlash he received from many American evangelicals who are critical of his public stance on race-related issues.\n\nLecrae currently resides in Atlanta since relocating there from Memphis in 2009, and is married to Darragh Moore. The couple has three children together. Lecrae is a graduate of University of North Texas. In an interview with HipHopDX, Lecrae stated that Clipse member No Malice sought him out as a spiritual advisor.\n\nCanada Christian College bestowed an honorary Doctorate of Music to Lecrae on March 14, 2016 while visiting Toronto, making him the youngest recipient of such a degree from the college.\n\n\n\nLecrae has won many music awards over the space of his career, including two Grammy Awards and seven Dove Awards. In 2013, he became the first hip hop artist to win the Grammy Award for Best Gospel Album, which was awarded to his sixth album, \"Gravity\", and in 2015 became the first rapper to win the BET Award for Best Gospel Artist.\n\n"}
{"id": "37707428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37707428", "title": "List of Coptic Monasteries", "text": "List of Coptic Monasteries\n\nThe following is a list of Coptic Monasteries in Egypt and around the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52604091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52604091", "title": "List of Eastern Orthodox universities and colleges in the United States", "text": "List of Eastern Orthodox universities and colleges in the United States\n\nThere are several Eastern Orthodox colleges and universities in the United States. There are also a number of distance education programs affiliated with Eastern Orthodox churches in North America, and blended residency and online certification programs in theology or ministry.\n\nOrthodox education has existed in North America since Russian colonization of Alaska in the late 18th Century, but has only existed in the United States since the early 20th Century.\n\nAccreditation of Orthodox institutes of higher learning in the United States is not uniform. Saint Herman's Orthodox Seminary of Alaska lost its accreditation as an institution of higher education in the 1990s, and now works under state authorization as an exempted religious institution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51210504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51210504", "title": "Maddalena Panattieri", "text": "Maddalena Panattieri\n\nBlessed Maddalena Panattieri (1443 – 13 October 1503) was an Italian Roman Catholic professed religious and a professed member of the Sisters of Penance of Saint Dominic since her late adolescence. Panattieri was a stigmatic and received visions during her life with one in particular being the French invasion of the Italian peninsula. She served as a catechist to children and was noted for her simple existence.\n\nPanattieri was beatified on 26 September 1897 after Pope Leo XII confirmed that there was a longstanding 'cultus' (or popular devotion) to the late religious.\n\nMaddalena Panattieri was born in Trino in 1443 and as a child fostered a great devotion to Saint Catherine of Siena. She joined the Order of Preachers not long before 1463 as part of the tertiaries rather than as a formal religious; this was considered unusual since members were mainly widows and older women. She made a private vow as a child to remain chaste.\n\nPanattieri lived at home alongside her relations and devoted her time to the care of both the poor and the ill and she would often give talks to children (she was quite fond of children) while later speaking with priests and nuns. She would instruct these children in catechism which led to older people flocking to hear her speak on the subject. Panattieri also received the stigmata later in life though kept this a secret. The reform movement of Blessed Raimondo da Capua of the order saw the religious promote it in Trino. God also revealed to her the coming French invasion of the Italian peninsula though she would not live to see it.\n\nShe often spent her mornings in Eucharistic Adoration while her afternoons saw her administering to both the ill and the poor; she became noted for her austerities which included wearing a rough woolen shirt and for her long fasts. When her brother kept getting into trouble (and his conduct exceeded all patience) she would fall to her knees before a Crucifix and would beg for God to intervene and help her brother. Through her efforts the order was inspired to undertake a more strict observance which led to Blessed Sebastiano Maggi - from Milan - coming in 1490 to inaugurate this at her request.\n\nOn one occasion a rich councilor from Milan - who harbored great hatred towards the faith - was excommunicated and he hit her across the face in public and called her names. She dropped to her knees and said: \"Brother here is the other cheek. I give it to you in love of Jesus Christ\" which infuriated the man further. But justice was too late for the man died a violent death from a painful and incurable disease not long after this incident.\n\nPanattieri died on 13 October 1503 in Trino. On her deathbed she said: \"I could not be happy in Heaven if you were not there too\" to those assembled near her bedside. She sang \"Jesus our Redeemer\" and the \"Ave Maria\" prior to her death. Her remains were found in 1964 and transferred in 1970.\n\nPanattieri received formal beatification from Pope Leo XII on 26 September 1827 once the pontiff confirmed that a 'cultus' (or popular devotion) to Panattieri existed and endured since her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "309110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309110", "title": "Meera", "text": "Meera\n\nMeera, also known as Meera Bai or Mirabai (1498-1546) was a Hindu mystic poet of the Bhakti movement. She referred to the Lord, whom she saw as her husband, with different names like Satguru, Prabhu Ji, Girdhar Nagar, Krishna. She even called him the husband of her soul. Due to her mother, her in-laws disapproved of her public singing and dancing as she belonged to a Royal Family of Mewar and was a princess. But she had too much love for her god and sacrificed everything, even her family, for god and attained Moksha through Bhakti Yoga. She is a celebrated Bhakti saint, particularly in the North Indian Hindu tradition.\n\nMeera Bai was born into family of Merta, Rajasthan, India. She is mentioned in Bhaktamal, confirming that she was widely known and a cherished figure in the Bhakti movement culture by about 1600 CE. Most legends about Meera mention her fearless disregard for social and family conventions, her devotion to Lord \nKrishna, her treating Krishna as her husband, and she being persecuted by her in-laws for her religious devotion. She has been the subject of numerous folk tales and hagiographic legends, which are inconsistent or widely different in details.\nThousands of devotional poems in passionate praise of Lord Krishna are attributed to Meera in the Indian tradition, but just a few hundred are believed to be authentic by scholars, and the earliest written records suggest that except for two poems, most were written down only in the 18th century. Many poems attributed to Meera were likely composed later by others who admired Meera. These poems are commonly known as \"bhajans\", and are popular across India. Hindu temples, such as in Chittorgarh fort, are dedicated to Mira Bai's memory. Legends about Meera's life, of contested authenticity, have been the subject of movies, comic strips and other popular literature in modern times.\n\nAuthentic records about Meera are not available, and scholars have attempted to establish Meera's biography from secondary literature that mention her, and wherein dates and other moments. Meera unwillingly married Bhoj Raj, the crown prince of Mewar, in 1516. Her husband was wounded in one of the ongoing Hindu-Muslim wars of the Delhi Sultanate in 1518, and he died of battle wounds in 1521. Both her own father and her father-in-law were killed within a few years after her husband, during a war with the Islamic army of Babur – the founder of Mughal Empire in the Indian subcontinent.\n\nAfter the death of her father-in-law, Vikram Singh became the ruler of Mewar. According to a popular legend, her in-laws tried many times to execute her, such as sending Meera a glass of poison and telling her it was nectar or sending her a basket with a snake instead of flowers. According to the hagiographic legends, she was not harmed in either case, with the snake miraculously becoming a Krishna idol (or a garland of flowers depending on the version). In another version of these legends, she is asked by Vikram Singh to go drown herself, which she tries but she finds herself floating on water. Yet another legend states that the Mughal emperor Akbar came with Tansen to visit Meera and presented a pearl necklace, but scholars doubt this ever happened because Tansen joined Akbar's court in 1562, 15 years after she died.\nSimilarly, some stories state that Raidas was her guru (teacher), but there is no corroborating historical evidence for this and the difference of over 100 years in the birth years for Ravidas and Meera suggest this to be unlikely.\n\nThe three different oldest records known as of 2014 that mention Meera, all from the 17th century and written within 150 years of Meera's death, neither mention anything about her childhood or circumstances of her marriage to Bhojraj, nor do they mention that the people who persecuted her were her in-laws or from some Rajput royal family. Nancy Martin-Kershaw states that to the extent Meera was challenged and persecuted, religious or social conventions were unlikely to have been the cause, rather the likely cause were political chaos and military conflicts between the Rajput kingdom and the Mughal Empire.\n\nOther stories state that Mira Bai left the kingdom of Mewar and went on pilgrimages. In her last years, Meera lived in Dwarka or Vrindavan, where legends state she miraculously disappeared by merging into an idol of Krishna in 1547. While miracles are contested by scholars for the lack of historical evidence, it is widely acknowledged that Meera dedicated her life to Hindu deity Krishna, composing songs of devotion and was one of the most important poet-saint of the Bhakti movement period.\n\nA number of compositions by Meera Bai continue to be sung today in India, mostly as devotional songs (\"bhajans\") though nearly all of them have a philosophical connotation. One of her most popular compositions remains \"Paayoji maine Ram Ratan dhan paayo\" (पायो जी मैंने राम रतन धन पायो। ). Meera's poems are lyrical \"padas\" (metric verses) in Rajasthani language. While thousands of verses are attributed to her, scholars are divided in their opinion as to how many of them were actually penned by Meera herself. There are no surviving manuscripts of her poetry from her time, and the earliest records with two poems credited to her are from early 18th-century, more than 150 years after she died. \n\nThe largest collection of poems credited to her are in 19th-century manuscripts. Scholars have attempted to establish authenticity based on both the poem and Meera being mentioned in other manuscripts as well as from style, linguistics and form. John Stratton Hawley cautions, \"When one speaks of the poetry of Mirabai, then, there is always an element of enigma. (...) there must always remain a question about whether there is any real relation between the poems we cite and a historical Mira.\"\n\nIn her poems, Krishna is a yogi and lover, and she herself is a yogini ready to take her place by his side into a spiritual marital bliss. Meera's style combines impassioned mood, defiance, longing, anticipation, joy and ecstasy of union, always centered on Krishna.\n\nMeera speaks of a personal relationship with Krishna as her lover, lord and mountain lifter. The characteristic of her poetry is complete surrender.\n\nMeera is often classed with the northern Sant bhaktis who spoke of a formless divinity.\n\n\"Prem Ambodh Pothi\", a text attributed to Guru Gobind Singh and completed in 1693 CE, includes poetry of Mira Bai as one of sixteen historic \"bhakti sants\" important to Sikhism.\n\nScholars acknowledge that Meera was one of the central poet-saints of the Bhakti movement, during a difficult period in Indian history filled with religious conflicts. Yet, they simultaneously question the extent to which Meera was a canonical projection of social imagination that followed, where she became a symbol of people's suffering and a desire for an alternative. Dirk Wiemann, quoting Parita Mukta, states,\n\nThe continued influence of Meera, in part, has been her message of freedom, her resolve and right to pursue her devotion to deity Krishna and her spiritual beliefs as she felt drawn to despite her persecution. Her appeal and influence in Indian culture, writes Edwin Bryant, is from her emerging, through her legends and poems, as a person \"who stands up for what is right and suffers bitterly for holding fast to her convictions, as other men and women have\", yet she does so with a language of love, with words painting the \"full range of emotions that mark love, whether between human beings or between human and divine\".\n\nAliston and Subramanian have published selections with English translation in India. Schelling and Landes-Levi have offered anthologies in the USA. Snell has presented parallel translations in his collection \"The Hindi Classical Tradition\". Sethi has selected poems which Mira composed presumably after she came in contact with Saint Ravidas. and Meera Pakeerah.\n\nSome bhajans of Meera have been rendered into English by Robert Bly and Jane Hirshfield as \"Mirabai: Ecstatic Poems\".\n\nComposer John Harbison adapted Bly's translations for his \"Mirabai Songs.\" There is a documentary film \"A Few Things I Know About Her\" by Anjali Panjabi. Two well-known films of her life have been made in India, \"Meera\" (1945), a Tamil language film starring M. S. Subbulakshmi, and \"Meera\" a 1979 Hindi film by Gulzar. TV series, \"Meera\" (2009–2010) was also based on her life.\n\nMeera Bai's life has been interpreted as a musical story in \"Meera—The Lover…\", a music album based on original compositions for some well known Meera bhajans, released 11 October 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31187309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31187309", "title": "Michael Rakowitz", "text": "Michael Rakowitz\n\nMichael Rakowitz is an Iraqi American artist best known for his conceptual art displayed in non-gallery contexts. He is an associate professor at Northwestern University and is represented in New York by Jane Lombard Gallery.\n\nIn Rakowitz's project return he reopens his grandfather's import and export business. The company initially functioned as a drop box. In 2005 it became a packaging center and sorting facility. Members of the Iraqi diaspora community and interested citizens were invited to send things to be shipped free of charge to recipients in Iraq. Rakowitz also wanted to explore the possibility of importing things clearly labeled \"Product of Iraq\"; he chose dates which were legendary in Iraq, with a yield of over 600 varieties. The first batch he tried to ship died in Syria but the second made its way through different nations and different customs; the dates became a representative for an Iraq refugee traveling to a new life.When they finally made it to Brooklyn there people were eager to try them, this fruit that caused so many problems to get there asked questions and brought up memories.\n\nOne of his more notable projects is Enemy Kitchen. The project began in 2004; in it Rakowitz compiles Baghdad recipes with the help of his mother and then teaches them to public audiences. The first time this project was performed was with students who lived in Chelsea and went to the Hudson Guild Community Center. With the project in cooking and eating the food, it opens up the lines of communication allowing, in this case, the students to attach the word Iraq to food as a representative of culture and discuss it. The students discussed the war and compare it to their own lives. Later this project also included a food truck that roamed around Chicago. The food truck itself gives home to the Iraqi ex-pat community and is another way of bringing art down to a level that involves and interacts with people. Rakowitz says, \"I see the truck as a potentially healing gesture, not that it has to be. I don't have delusions that it will perform the hard work of healing traumas. I do believe there can be an aesthetic of good intentions, but I'm leery of saying what those are. No, I'm not going to tell anyone it's art.\"\n\nRakowitz about how he sees his art: \"As an artistic gesture I try to make an unlikely thing happen, and the impossible becomes possible. It's art because it's impossible for this to exist in the world.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38766060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38766060", "title": "Momiji (Ninja Gaiden)", "text": "Momiji (Ninja Gaiden)\n\nMomiji was raised to be Hayabusa ninja clan's Dragon Shrine Maiden like her older sister Kureha who was Ryu's childhood friend. She is both a \"shinobi\" (ninja) and a \"miko\" (shamanistic shrine maiden) who was tasked with keeping the ancient relics passed down the Hayabusa village from the ancient Dragon Lineage and carrying out the Shrine Maiden's rites and rituals to purify the world of evil forces. Among the relics that the maidens were tasked with guarding is the Eye of the Dragon, a jewel said to contain the souls of the ancient Dragons. Kureha was killed when the village was attacked in 2004's \"Ninja Gaiden\" and the devastated Momiji began training under Ryu as a precaution, becoming a skilled kunoichi along with her shrine maiden duties and abilities. Since then she supports and follows her master whenever he comes around. Momiji is a very gentle and caring young woman who is seen as an older sister figure by all of the village's children, including the boy Sanji. Like her mentor Ryu Hayabusa, Momiji trains extensively to become one of the deadliest warriors in the Hayabusa village.\n\nIn \"\", Momiji is normally playable only in the game's first chapter, but it is possible to play her through the entire game after unlocking the special difficulty setting \"The Way of Kunoichi\", which becomes accessible if the player manages to win the unfair boss fight at the end Momiji's chapter. After her session of training with Ryu, Momiji stays behind to pick flowers for Kureha's grave where she is attacked by the Black Spider clan and eventually captured by the fiendish Red Dragon. She is interrogated by Black Spider's Obaba for the Eye of the Dragon but turns out she managed to fuse the jewel into her soul, preventing Obaba from killing her. The Fiends' leader Ishtaros plans to use the captive Momiji to lure Ryu and kill him. During the battle between Ryu and Ishtaros at the Gates of Hell, Ryu is overwhelmed by the Dark Dragonstones' power but the ghost of Kureha appears and draws out Momiji's soul. Together they release the Eye and imbue the Dragon Sword with its power, allowing it to become the True Dragon Sword that Ryu uses to defeat Ishtaros. Nicchae, the Greater Fiend of Destruction and Ishtaros's twin, appears and takes Momiji, Ishtaros' body and the eight Dark Dragonstones deeper into Hell in an attempt to reawaken the Vigoor Emperor. Nicchae's plan ends in failure as the Dark Dragon consumes the Emperor and Ishtaros before bursting forth to threaten the world once again. Ryu defeats the Dark Dragon with the True Dragon Sword, and Momiji is finally rescued. Afterwards, Momiji mourns Kureha alongside the children of the village and makes a vow at Kureha's grave to become stronger so she can defend herself and the village. She leaves Ryu a letter as she departs to train in her travels.\n\nMomiji returns as a playable character in \"Ninja Gaiden Sigma 2\". While Ryu is away at Tokyo, the Hayabusa village is invaded once again by the Black Spider clan. As Jo battles Genshin, Momji rallies the Hayabusa ninjas to protect the rest of the villagers. Ryu later returns to the village and repels the invasion, killing almost all the invading Black Spider ninjas. Momiji soon realizes that Sanji has been taken captive, prompting her to go rescue him. As she travels to Tokyo, she encounters one of the Tengu Brothers and soundly defeats him. This leads her to Sanji, who is being held prisoner by both brothers. After her victorious battle, she reassures Sanji that she will always look out for him until he becomes a master ninja. As they return home, they are unknowingly saved by Muramasa, who kills a Black Spider ninja who is about to shoot an arrow at them. Momiji is also featured in the spin-off title \"ZEN Pinball: Ninja Gaiden Sigma 2\".\n\nIn \"Ninja Gaiden 3\", after Sanji finds Ryu unconscious outside and brings him to Momiji, she watches over him and helps him recover. During his journey to find his father in the shrine, she assists him in dealing with the Grip of Murder curse while helping him defeat the Black Spider ninja clan. Whenever the curse almost takes complete control over Ryu, Momiji uses her power to protect his mind and help him regain his senses. As they get near to the shrine, they are attacked by Obaba, but they manage to defeat her. Near the end of the battle, Momiji is knocked unconscious by Obaba, but Ryu manages to save her and brings her to the shrine to be taken care of by his father. When Canna attacks Tokyo as the Goddess and Ryu begins to become overwhelmed by Fiends, Momiji and Jo arrive just in time to save him. She gives her master the Eye of the Dragon before he departs, leaving her and his father to fight off the surrounding foes.\n\nMomiji became playable again in the \"NG3\" update \"\". She makes an appearance in the spin-off game \"\", as an ally and love interest of Ryu, who is an antagonist in the game. She arrives to give the Eye of the Dragon to him, and then Ryu saves her from peril.\n\nIn the fighting games \"Dead or Alive 5 Ultimate\" and \"Dead or Alive 5 Last Round\", Momiji joins the DOA tournament in order to put what she has learned to the test. She is one of the nine playable female characters in the \"DOA\" sport spin-off title \"Dead or Alive Xtreme 3\".\n\nMomiji makes playable appearances in the Wii U edition of \"Warriors Orochi 3\" (\"Warriors Orochi 3 Hyper\"), including in the game's duel mode, and later in \"Warriors Orochi 3 Ultimate\". Previously she has made an unplayable guest appearance in the \"Warriors\" series in \"\" for the PlayStation 3, where she gives a series of quests to the player character who can earn the right to wield her Heavenly Dragon Naginata in battle. \n\nThe character was originally designed for \"Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword\" by Mariko Hirokane, whose work on the game was her professional debut (she also later worked as a concept artist for \"Dead or Alive 5\"). \"Dragon Sword\" producer and \"Ninja Gaiden\" \"Sigma 2\" producer and director Yosuke Hayashi, who considers Momiji his \"very own\" character, stated his \"Sigma 2\" design priorities as \"How much sexier can a female ninja get?\" He said she was the \"definitively\" the most difficult of the \"Sigma 2\" heroes to create for this game: \"Honestly, there were no clear answers to questions like what she would look like as high-res model, what sort of weapon she would use, and what her abilities were. All our staff had different ideas about her, but I think it came together well in the end, and we were able bring her personality to life.\" Hayashi also said he had originally rejected the idea of making Ayane (from \"Dead or Alive\") and Momiji playable in the original version of \"Ninja Gaiden 3\" as he wanted to focus on Ryu. \n\nMomiji is a tall, young girl with amber eyes and long black hair tied in a ponytail. Her measurements are B92 / W58 / H88 and she is 21-years-old in \"DOAX3\". Originally she wore a white Hayabusa ninja training outfit with greenish-black hair, but starting in \"Sigma 2\" she has black hair. Momiji usually wears minimal armor for mobility. By \"Sigma 2\", her main costume became a revealing battle-priestess outfit where the colors red and white represent dragon's flame and purification. Her alternative costumes in the game, \"designed for action and style,\" include a variation of her shrine maiden costume that \"mixes a skirt with a traditional ceremonial top,\" an \"easy-to-move clothing for combat whose violet design still maintains a sense of serenity,\" and a \"traditional clothing for those taking part in secular festivals\" that is very similar to Kasumi's original costume in the early \"Dead or Alive\" games. Another costume was first made available as part of a paid DLC, and more arrived with \"Razor's Edge\". \n\nHer other wardrobe in \"Last Round\" include a red dress designed by Tamiki Wakaki, white costumes based on the characters of Princess Allura from \"\" and the winged goddess Feena from Nihon Falcom's \"Ys Origin\", a schoolgirl uniform of Sachiko Tanaka from Square Enix's \"School Girl Strikers\", a schoolgirl-ninja costume of Homura from \"Senran Kagura\", and the black leather outfit of Majo from Tatsunoko's \"Time Bokan\" (with blonde hair). Additional costumes for Momiji were included in pre-order bonuses for \"Sigma 2\" and \"Razor's Edge\". The \"Momiji Red\" version of \"Dead or Alive 5 Ultimate\" (\"DOA5U\") Japan-only limited edition contains, among other things, Momiji-themed bonuses such as a 3D \"oppai\" mousepad and a bath poster. In Japan, first-print copies of Tecmo Koei's \"Musou Orochi 2 Ultimate\" (\"Warriors Orochi 3 Ultimate\") were bundled with DLC codes for special \"Orochi\"-themed costume for Momiji in \"DO5U\", and special edition of \"Yaiba: Ninja Gaiden Z\" included an exclusive \"Yaiba\"-themed DLC costume for Momiji in \"DOA5U\" that was later also carried over to \"Dead or Alive Extreme 3\". \"Dead or Alive 5 Last Round\" pre-order bonuses included a beach party costume for Momiji from Best Buy.\n\nIn \"Sigma 2\", besides her unlockable single-player chapter in the story mode, Momiji is also available for co-op multiplayer gameplay on 30 special missions, as well as additional Tag Mission and Ninja Race mode in \"Sigma 2 Plus\". She is an acrobatic character with a unique double jump ability, and can attack enemies from the air. According to GameSpot, Momiji in \"Sigma 2\" \"plays similarly to Ryu and is just as fast and formidable with a blade. She's able to leap through the air, dash, slice, dice, and more, with similar physics to Ryu\" and a similar control system. Between her, Ryu and Ayane, Momiji the slowest but strongest with her naginata, which has the best height and reach. According to 1UP.com, \"Momiji's reach is her biggest advantage, and the Naginata deals insane damage to her enemies,\" allowing to \"kill them quickly and efficiently\" from a safe distance. A drawback to this is \"her raw strength and long range are balanced by her slow mobility.\" GamesRadar called her \"actually the middle-ground character. Wielding a naginata halberd, Momiji’s combos require more skill, but she does have a number of one-hit kill techniques.\" Despite Momiji's use of bow and arrows, \"PC Magazine\" opined that a particular problem with Momiji in the game is that she has \"no effective quick projectile,\" and so the players have \"to rely on her jumping abilities and Ultimate Techniques to create some breathing room.\" Momiji's breasts in the game can be manipulated with the motion sensor of the Sixaxis controller.\n\nIn \"Ninja Gaiden 3: Razor's Edge\", she was made simultaneously available in an update for the Wii U version and at launch for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. She can be played in Chapter Challenge mode and Ninja Trials co-op mode. Her new skills include a long-range naginata attack. \"X360\" judged all the \"girls\" of the game as \"just as deadly\" as Ryu. In \"Dead or Alive 5 Ultimate\", Momiji is still an agile character, retaining her unique double jump move from the \"Ninja Gaiden\" series. Like Kasumi, Momiji is able to teleport, but her style is completely different with a relatively high learning curve. NowGamer reported that in \"DOA5U\" she has \"a few aerial mix-ups and even a 360 air-throw for those who want a slightly more challenging character to master.\"\n\nThe character was mostly well received, in part due to her sex appeal. GameSpot's Luke Anderson wrote that in \"Ninja Gaiden Sigma 2\" \"Momiji certainly looks the part in a Tecmo game, and with that sort of getup, she's certain to send pulses racing.\" Commenting on her more detailed appearance in \"Sigma 2\" in comparison to this in \"Dragon Sword\", Michael McWhertor of Kotaku wrote that \"all that smooth upper thigh rendered by the Cell processor\" would be one of the main selling points of the game; \"PLAY\" later placed her Momiji \"Sigma 2\" as third on their 2010 list of top \"side-boobs\" in games. Justin Towell of GamesRadar opined Momiji adds \"some welcome variety to the hack 'n' slash gameplay\" of \"Sigma 2\" and stated a hope she would appear in \"Dead or Alive 5\" \"and our Sexy Fan Art gallery too.\" Prima Games called Momiji a \"Ninja Gaiden\" fan favorite and \"PSX Extreme\" compared her to \"Soulcalibur\"'s Taki as similar in her figure and design. She was ranked as the 31st best looking game girl by GameHall's Portal PlayGame in 2014 and has been consistently voted the \"DOA\" series' eight most popular female character in Japan in the publisher Koei Tecmo's own polls in both 2014 and 2015. Dave Halverson from \"play\" wanted to see \"Ninja Gaiden\" \"back to its action-platforming roots with Momiji as the lead.\"\n\nNowGamer's Ryan King called Momiji \"the most interesting addition\" to \"Dead or Alive 5 Ultimate\" and GamesRadar's Mike Reparaz included her appearance in \"Dynasty Warriors: Strikeforce\" among the \"awesome character cameos\". Craig Harris of IGN praised the \"great\" way of how she was used in the tutorial chapter in \"Dragon Sword\", and IGN's Ryan Clements wrote that the \"beautiful Momiji...will add yet another layer of gameplay to \"Sigma 2\" that elevates the experience beyond the 360 version;\" the game's review by \"PLAY\" opined her stages, albeit short, \"genuinely enhance \"Ninja Gaiden Sigma 2 Plus\"’s core story.\" Speaking of different character and the change in gameplay it brings, SCEA's Jeff Rubenstein said, \"personally, I was a fan of Momiji and her halberd weapon in \"NGS2\".\" On the other hand, Gabriel Zamor of \"PC Magazine\" singled her out while writing about how \"frustrating experience\" using female characters can be for the players in the \"Ninja Gaiden\" series as it can force \"a significant play-style change on them.\" IGN's Vince Ingenito singled out Momiji and Nyotengu as the best new characters of \"DOA5\", writing: \"Momiji's style, while certainly reminiscent of the many ninjas of the cast, adds enough flaming flourishes and impressive acrobatics to set her apart. Watching the two of them face off falls somewhere between late-night Hong Kong wire-fu and a live-action \"\" fan-fic, in the best possible way.\"\n\nGamesRadar's Brett Elston opined she looks \"a lot more family friendly\" than the characters from the previous \"Ninja Gaiden\" games even as \"play\" noted how \"astonishingly\" Momiji dressed conservatively in \"Dragon Sword\", even as Earnest Cavalli of \"The Escapist\" called her a \"hilariously stereotypical\" example of an \"overtly sexualized Japanese woman.\" VideoGamer.com noted her for a \"class and charm,\" and GameSpot's Kevin VanOrd wrote he \"cringed\" when he found a poem written by Ryu \"in which he professes his adoration of Momiji and refers to his own manhood as a 'wee-wee'\" in one of the toilet humour jokes in \"Ninja Gaiden Z\". Despite warnings from Team Ninja to not do it or no more \"Dead or Alive\" games will be released for the PC, modders quickly released a topless version of Momiji in \"Last Round\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14159630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14159630", "title": "Muhammad's first revelation", "text": "Muhammad's first revelation\n\nMuhammad's revelation was an event described in Islam as taking place in 610 AD, during which the Islamic prophet, Muhammad was visited by the archangel Jibrīl, who revealed to him the beginnings of what would later become the Quran. The event took place in a cave called Hira, located on the mountain Jabal an-Nour, near Mecca.\n\nAccording to biographies of Muhammad, while on retreat in a mountain cave near Mecca (the cave of Hira), Gabriel appears before him and commands him to recite the first lines of chapter 96 of the Quran. Muhammad's experience is mentioned in Surah 53:4–9:\n\nMuhammad was born and raised in Mecca. When he was nearly 40, he used to spend many hours alone in prayer and speculating over the aspects of creation. He was concerned with the \"ignorance of divine guidance\" (Jahiliyyah), social unrest, injustice, widespread discrimination (particularly against women), fighting among tribes and abuse of tribal authorities prevalent in pre-Islamic Arabia. The moral degeneration of his fellow people, and his own quest for a true religion further lent fuel to this, with the result that he now began to withdraw periodically to a cave named Mount Hira, three miles north of Mecca, for contemplation and reflection. Islamic tradition holds that Muhammad during this period began to have dreams replete with spiritual significance which were fulfilled according to their true import; and this was the commencement of his divine revelation.\n\nAccording to mainstream Islamic tradition, during one such occasion while he was in contemplation, the archangel Gabriel appeared before him in the year 610 AD and said, \"Read\", upon which he replied, \"I am unable to read\". Thereupon the angel caught hold of him and embraced him heavily. This happened two more times after which the angel commanded Muhammad to recite the following verses:\n\nPerplexed by this new experience, Muhammad made his way to home where he was consoled by his wife Khadijah, who also took him to her Ebionite cousin Waraqah ibn Nawfal. Waraqah was familiar with Jewish and Christian scriptures. Islamic tradition holds that Waraqah, upon hearing the description, testified to Muhammad's prophethood, and convinced Muhammad that the revelation was from God. Waraqah said: \"O my nephew! What did you see?\" When Muhammad told him what had happened to him, Waraqah replied: \"This is Namus (meaning Gabriel) that Allah sent to Moses. I wish I were younger. I wish I could live up to the time when your people would turn you out.\" Muhammad asked: \"Will they drive me out?\" Waraqah answered in the affirmative and said: \"Anyone who came with something similar to what you have brought was treated with hostility; and if I should be alive until that day, then I would support you strongly.\" A few days later Waraqah died.\n\nThe initial revelation was followed by a pause and a second encounter with Gabriel when Muhammad heard a voice from the sky and saw the same angel \"sitting between the sky and the earth\" and the revelations resumed with the first verses of chapter 74.\n\nAt-Tabari and Ibn Hisham reported that Muhammad left the cave of Hira after being surprised by the revelation, but later on, returned to the cave and continued his solitude, though subsequently he returned to Mecca. Tabari and Ibn Ishaq write that Muhammad told Zubayr:\n\nThere is doubt about the period of time between Muhammad's first and second experiences of revelation. Ibn Ishaq writes that three years elapsed from the time that Muhammad received the first revelation until he started to preach publicly. Bukhari takes chapter 74 as the second revelation however chapter 68 has strong claims to be the second revelation.\n\nḤadīth (حديث) is literally \"speech\"; recorded saying or tradition of Muhammad validated by isnad; with Sirah Rasul Allah these comprise the sunnah and reveal shariah. According to Aishah, the life of Muhammad was practical implementation of Qur'an. The first and foremost exegesis/tafsir of the Qur'an is found in hadith of Muhammad. Therefore, study of hadith elaborates the importance and context of pertinent event. The event of first revelation of Mohammed is recorded in hadith via his wife Aisha\nThe commencement of the Divine Inspiration to Allah's Messenger was in the form of good dreams which came true like bright daylight, and then the love of seclusion was bestowed upon him. He used to go in seclusion in the cave of Hira where he used to worship (Allah alone) continuously for many days before his desire to see his family. He used to take with him the journey food for the stay and then come back to (his wife) Khadija to take his food likewise again till suddenly the Truth descended upon him while he was in the cave of Hira. The angel came to him and asked him to read. The Prophet replied, \"I do not know how to read.\" The Prophet added, \"The angel caught me (forcefully) and pressed me so hard that I could not bear it any more. He then released me and again asked me to read and I replied, 'I do not know how to read.' Thereupon he caught me again and pressed me a second time till I could not bear it any more. He then released me and again asked me to read but again I replied, 'I do not know how to read (or what shall I read)?' Thereupon he caught me for the third time and pressed me, and then released me and said, 'Read in the name of your Lord, who has created (all that exists), created man from a clot. Read! And your Lord is the Most Generous.\" (96.1, 96.2, 96.3) Then Allah's Messenger returned with the Inspiration and with his heart beating severely. Then he went to Khadija bint Khuwailid and said, \"Cover me! Cover me!\" They covered him till his fear was over and after that he told her everything that had happened and said, \"I fear that something may happen to me.\" Khadija replied, \"Never! By Allah, Allah will never disgrace you. You keep good relations with your kith and kin, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guests generously and assist the deserving calamity-afflicted ones.\" Khadija then accompanied him to her cousin Waraqa ibn Naufal bin Asad bin 'Abdul 'Uzza, who, during the pre-Islamic Period became a Christian and used to write the writing with Hebrew letters. He would write from the Gospel in Hebrew as much as Allah wished him to write. He was an old man and had lost his eyesight. Khadija said to Waraqa, \"Listen to the story of your nephew, O my cousin!\" Waraqa asked, \"O my nephew! What have you seen?\" Allah's Messenger described whatever he had seen. Waraqa said, \"This is the same one who keeps the secrets (angel Gabriel) whom Allah had sent to Moses. I wish I were young and could live up to the time when your people would turn you out.\" Allah's Messenger asked, \"Will they drive me out?\" Waraqa replied in the affirmative and said, \"Anyone (man) who came with something similar to what you have brought was treated with hostility; and if I should remain alive till the day when you will be turned out then I would support you strongly.\" But after a few days Waraqa died and the Divine Inspiration was also, paused for a while.\nHere is the quotation from Ibn Ishaq on Muhammad's first meeting with Gabriel:\n\nWhen it was the night on which God honored him with his mission and showed mercy on His servants thereby, Gabriel brought him the command of God. \"He came to me,\" said the apostle of God, \"while I was asleep, with a coverlet of brocade whereon was some writing, and said, ‘Read!’ I said, ‘What shall I read?’ He pressed me with it so tightly that I thought it was death; then he let me go and said, ‘Read!’ I said, ‘What shall I read?’ He pressed me with it again so that I thought it was death; then he let me go and said ‘Read!’ I said, ‘What shall I read?’ He pressed me with it the third time so that I thought it was death and said ‘Read!’ I said, ‘What then shall I read?’—and this I said only to deliver myself from him, lest he should do the same to me again. He said:\n\nSo I read it, and he departed from me. And I awoke from my sleep, and it was as though these words were written on my heart.\n\nNow none of God’s creatures was more hateful to me than an (ecstatic) poet or a man possessed: I could not even look at them. I thought, Woe is me poet or possessed—Never shall Quraysh say this of me! I will go to the top of the mountain and throw myself down that I may kill myself and gain rest. So I went forth to do so and then when I was midway on the mountain, I heard a voice from heaven saying, “O Muhammad! thou art the apostle of God and I am Gabriel.” \"(Ibn Ishaq, \"Sirat Rasul Allah\", p. 106)\n"}
{"id": "7775273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7775273", "title": "New religious movements and cults in popular culture", "text": "New religious movements and cults in popular culture\n\nNew religious movements and cults have appeared as themes or subjects in literature and popular culture, while notable representatives of such groups have themselves produced a large body of literary works. Beginning in the 1700s authors in the English-speaking world began introducing members of \"cults\" as antagonists. Satanists, sects of the Latter Day Saint movement, and Thuggees were popular choices. In the twentieth century concern for the rights and feelings of religious minorities led authors to invent fictional cults for their villains to belong to.\nFictional cults continue to be popular in film, television, and gaming in the same way.\n\nA new religious movement (NRM) is a religious community or ethical, spiritual, or philosophical group of modern origins, which has a peripheral place within its nation's dominant religious culture. NRMs may be novel in origin or they may be part of a wider religion, in which case they will be distinct from pre-existing denominations. Scholars continue to try to reach definitions and define boundaries.\n\nA NRM may be one of a wide range of movements ranging from those with loose affiliations based on novel approaches to spirituality or religion to communitarian enterprises that demand a considerable amount of group conformity and a social identity that separates their adherents from mainstream society. Scholars have estimated that NRM's now number in the tens of thousands worldwide, with most in Asia and Africa. Most have only a few members, some have thousands, and only very few have more than a million.\n\nThe word cult in current usage is a pejorative term for a new religious movement or other group whose beliefs or practices are considered abnormal or bizarre by the larger society, often without a clear or consistent definition.\n\nZane Grey, in his \"Riders of the Purple Sage\" (1912), a Western novel that would have a major influence on Hollywood, lambasts the Mormons and has his gunslinger hero rescue a wealthy young woman in the early 1870s from the clutches of elderly polygamists via exceedingly bloody gunfights. The novel contains a portrayal of the psychological conflicts of the young woman, raised a Mormon but gradually coming to the realization that she wants a supposedly less constricted life. (The Mormon misdeeds depicted in the story take place on the southern frontier of Utah, and Grey makes no suggestion of the involvement of Mormon leaders in Salt Lake City.) The harassment of the young woman reflects a popular literary theme in Queen Victoria's England.\n\nIn Dashiell Hammett's \"The Dain Curse\" (1929), much of the mystery puzzle revolves around the Temple of the Holy Grail, a fictitious California circle that Hammett's characters repeatedly describe as a \"cult\". Hammett depicts it as starting as a scam, although the putative leader begins to believe in his own fraudulent claims.\n\nA.E.W. Mason, in \"The Prisoner in the Opal\" (1928), one of his Inspector Hanaud mysteries, describes the unmasking of a Satanist cult.\n\nThe Italian novelist Sibilla Aleramo, in \"Amo, dunque sono\" (I Love, Therefore, I Am) (1927) depicted Julius Evola's UR Group, a hermetical circle and intellectual movement — strongly influenced by Anthroposophy — that attempted to provide a spiritual direction to Benito Mussolini's fascism.\nAleramo described the character based on her former lover Evola as \"inhuman, an icy architect of acrobatic theories, vain, vicious, perverse.\" Aleramo based her hero on Giulio Parise, who would unsuccessfully attempt to oust the pro-Fascist Evola as the circle's leader in 1928, resulting in an announcement by Evola that he would thenceforth exert \"an absolute unity of direction\" over the circle's publications.\n\nScience-fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein wrote two novels that deal with fictional cult-like groups. A leading figure in his early \"Future History\" series (see \"If This Goes On--\", a short novel published in \"Revolt in 2100\"), Nehemiah Scudder, a religious \"prophet\", becomes dictator of the United States. By his own admission in an afterword, Heinlein poured into this book his distrust of all forms of religious fundamentalism, the Ku Klux Klan, the Communist Party and other movements that he regarded as authoritarian. Heinlein also stated in the afterword that he had worked out the plot of other books about Scudder, but had decided not to write them — in part because he found Scudder so unpleasant. Heinlein's novel \"Stranger in a Strange Land\" features two cults: the \"Dionysian Church of the New Revelation, Fosterite\", and the protagonist Valentine Michael Smith's own \"Church of All Worlds\". Heinlein treats of the motives and methods of religious leaders in some detail.\n\nFictional cults also feature in science fantasy and in horror novels. In \"That Hideous Strength\", C.S. Lewis describes the National Institute for Co-ordinated Experiments, or \"NICE\", a quasi-governmental front concealing a kind of doomsday cult that worships a disembodied head kept alive by scientific means. Lewis' novel is notable for its elaboration of his 1944 address \"The Inner Ring.\" The latter work criticizes the lust to \"belong\" to a powerful clique — a common human failing that Lewis believed was the basis for people being seduced into power-hungry and spiritually twisted movements.\n\nIn William Campbell Gault's \"Sweet Wild Wench\", L.A. private eye Joe Puma investigates the \"Children of Proton\", a fictional cult that has attracted the support of the daughter of a wealthy businessman.\n\nGore Vidal's \"Messiah\" depicts the rise of a cult leader, while Vidal's \"Kalki\", a science-fiction novel, recounts how a small but scientifically adept cult kills off the entire human race by means of germ warfare.\n\nPopular French author Michel Houellebecq's 2005 science-fiction novel, \"The Possibility of an Island\", describes a cloning group that resembles the Raëlians.\n\nRobert Muchamore has written a book for teenagers, \"Divine Madness\", about a religious cult that has a vast number of members: the main characters of the book must infiltrate the cult to discover a sinister plot.\n\nThe novel \"Godless\" centers around a teenager who forms a religious cult that worships his hometown's water tower.\n\nAleister Crowley, founder of the English-speaking branch of the Ordo Templi Orientis and of a short-lived commune (the \"Abbey of Thelema\") in Sicily, wrote poetry (anthologized in 1917 in \"The Oxford Book of English Mystical Verse\") and novels (\"Diary of a Drug Fiend\" (1922) and \"Moonchild\" (1929)). Crowley died in 1947. His autobiography, \"The Confessions of Aleister Crowley\", republished in 1969, attracted much attention. \"The Encyclopedia of Fantasy\" describes Crowley's fiction and his manuals on the occult as examples of \"lifestyle fantasy\".\n\nThe travel-writer, poet and painter Nicholas Roerich, the founder of Agni Yoga, expressed his spiritual beliefs through his depiction of the stark mountains of Central Asia. His classic travel-books include \"Heart of Asia: Memoirs from the Himalayas\" (1929) and \"Shambhala: In Search of the New Era\" (1930).\n\nL. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, worked as a contributing author in the Golden Age of Science Fiction (1930s to 1950s) and in the horror and fantasy genres. In a bibliographical study of his works, Marco Frenschkowski agrees with Stephen King in regarding \"Fear\" (1940) as one of the major horror tales of the 20th century, and praises \"its imaginative use of the prosaic and its demythologizing of traditional weird fiction themes\". Other works which Frenschkowski cites as notable include \"Typewriter in the Sky\" (1940), \"To the Stars\" (1950), the best-selling \"Battlefield Earth\" (1982), and the ten-volume \"Mission Earth\" (1985–1987). Frenschkowski concludes that although Hubbard's fiction has received excessive praise from his followers, science-fiction critics leery of Scientology have underrated it. John Clute and Peter Nichols, however, manage to praise much of Hubbard's oeuvre while also raising questions about the thematic link to Scientology. Hubbard's \"canny utilization of superman protagonists\" in his early work, they argue, came to \"tantalize\" s-f writers and fans \"with visions of transcendental power\" and may explain why so many early followers of Hubbard's movement came from the s-f community.\n\nG.I. Gurdjieff, the Greek-Armenian mystic and spiritual teacher who introduced and taught the Fourth Way, authored three literary works that comprise his \"All and Everything\" trilogy. The best known, \"Meetings with Remarkable Men\", a memoir of Gurdjieff's youthful search for spiritual truth, has become a minor classic. Peter Brook made it into a film (1979). The trilogy also includes \"Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson\", a curious melange of philosophy, humor and science-fiction that some regard as a masterpiece. P.L. Travers, author of the Mary Poppins series and a disciple of Gurdjieff, described \"Beelzebub\" as \"soaring off into space, like a great, lumbering flying cathedral\". Martin Seymour-Smith included \"Beelzebub\" in his \"100 Most Influential Books Ever Written\", characterising it as \"...the most convincing fusion of Eastern and Western thought that has yet been seen.\" Gurdjieff's final volume, \"Life is Real Only Then, When 'I Am'\", consists of an incomplete text published posthumously.\n\nEli Siegel, the founder of Aesthetic Realism, wrote highly regarded poetry. William Carlos Williams described his \"Hot Afternoons Have Been in Montana\" (1925) as his \"major poem\", and wrote that Siegel \"belongs in the first ranks of our living artists\". Other critics and poets who praised Siegel's work included Selden Rodman and Kenneth Rexroth; the latter wrote that \"it's about time Eli Siegel was moved up into the ranks of our acknowledged Leading Poets.\"\n\nHelena Blavatsky, the Russian adventuress who founded Theosophy, wrote \"Isis Unveiled\" (1887) and \"The Secret Doctrine\" (1888), and had an immense cultural and intellectual influence in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, helping to stimulate the Indian nationalist movement, parapsychology, the fantasy literary genre,\nand the New Age movement. \"The Encyclopedia of Fantasy\" describes her two major books as \"enormous, entrancing honeypots of myth, fairytale, speculation, fabrication and tomfoolery\".\n\nRudolf Steiner (1861–1925), the founder of Anthroposophy, wrote in a variety of fields (his collected works total 350 volumes) and influenced such figures as the novelist Herman Hesse and the philosopher Owen Barfield. Through his writings and lectures, Steiner stimulated the development of the cooperative movement, alternative medicine, organic farming, the Waldorf schools, and \"eurythmy\" in modern dance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10121696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10121696", "title": "Pentacle (magazine)", "text": "Pentacle (magazine)\n\nPentacle is a Neopagan magazine that began publication in February 2002. It was created by Marion Pearce and Jon Randall. It is a quarterly magazine published on the dates of the old festivals of Imbolc, Beltaine, Lammas and Samhain, and has a worldwide distribution of 2,500. It was conceived to provide an independent voice for today's Pagan, those not wanting to be told what to believe by the two main organisation-backed pagan magazines of the time.\n\n\"Pentacle\" has published articles on folklore, ritual, magic, archaeology. Articles have covered many aspects of pagan traditions, including , Druidry, and other classical and modern traditions. The magazine has also included announcements of workshops, conferences, moots, festivals, activities, training, groups and exchange magazines. Most of the articles have been once again aimed at the beginner/intermediate level reader, often written by the Pagan community and readership, whose members cover many levels of expertise. Furthermore it has contained a large amount of pagan and visionary art throughout, supporting all levels and abilities.\n\nMarion Pearce, the first editor (now the publisher) has included art, animal welfare and poetry. She has also included many articles on archaeology and historical folk practices. She stood down as editor in 2006 to allow the magazine to grow internationally.\n\nThe subsequent editor, Jon Randall, further expanded the remit of the magazine to include herbalism, counseling and science-backed therapies. This was achieved through a more rigorous academic methodology, contrasted by a more hands-on approach to Paganism as a religion and life choice. His style was more hard-hitting than the previous editor, and he tended to \"call it as he saw it\", leading to the inclusion of more in-depth articles that challenged and stretched the readership.\n\nAs of January 2010, Jon Randall resigned from his position as Designer and Editor.\n\nIn the meantime, Marion Pearce took over the reins again as editor. There has been a new forum and Facebook page, where readers can contribute ideas for the kind of content they would like to see included. The relaunched magazine has been described there in the following manner:\n\n\"Pentacle\" has supported the PaganDASH initiative to have Paganism counted in the UK Census 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "25887765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887765", "title": "Psilocybe fagicola", "text": "Psilocybe fagicola\n\nPsilocybe fagicola is a species of psychedelic mushroom in the family Hymenogastraceae native to Mexico. The type specimen for the species was collected in 1959 in a beech forest in Hidalgo, Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23702574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23702574", "title": "Radical 113", "text": "Radical 113\n\nRadical 113 ( Unicode U+793A, compound form at U+793B, pinyin ' meaning \"ancestor, veneration\") is number 113 out of 214 Kangxi radicals. It is one of 23 radicals composed of five strokes (the compound form has four strokes). In the Kangxi Dictionary there are 213 characters (out of 49,030) to be found under this radical.\n\nThe character represents an altar or offering table, the top stroke depicting the offered goods. Compare to this the Egyptian \"ḥtp\" hieroglyph which has the same motivation of \"altar with offering\". In the seal script the table has a shape.\nSemantically, the sign suggests relation to anything connected with animism in traditional Chinese religion, such as 祭 \"to sacrifice, to practice ancestor veneration\", ultimately composed of the sign for meat 肉 and the sign for a hand 手 above the altar character, as it were iconographically expressing \"hand placing meat on an altar\". The sign 祟 for \"spirit\" originally referred to misfortune caused by malevolent spirits. \nIn 禁 (\"jīn \") \"to forbid, restrict, restrain\", the 林 (\"lín \") above the radical has only phonetic significance (rebus writing).\nSimilarly, 神 \"spirit\" has radical 113 plus 申 \"shēn\" as a phonetic marker.\n祖 \"ancestor\" on the other hand has radical 113 plus 且, a pictograph of a stand with shelves for offerings to ancestors.\n\nSome signs including the radical have no connection with spirits or animism and are placed in the category purely on formal grounds, such as 票 \"ticket\" which originally had radical rather than .\n\nThe compound form always appears in the left half of characters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34157464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34157464", "title": "Religion and health", "text": "Religion and health\n\nScholarly studies have investigated the effects of religion on health. The World Health Organization (WHO) discerns four dimensions of health, namely physical, social, mental, and spirirtual health. Having a religious belief may have both positive and negative impacts on health and morbidity.\n\nSpirituality has been ascribed many different definitions in different contexts, but a general definition is: an individual’s search for meaning and purpose in life. Spirituality is distinct from organized religion in that spirituality does not necessarily need a religious framework. That is, one does not necessarily need to follow certain rules, guidelines or practices to be spiritual, but an organized religion often has some combination of these in place. Some people who suffer from severe mental disorders may find comfort in religion. People who report themselves to be spiritual people may not observe any specific religious practices or traditions.\n\nMore than 3000 empirical studies have examined relationships between religion and health, including more than 1200 in the 20th century, and more than 2000 additional studies between 2000 and 2009.\nVarious other reviews of the religion/spirituality and health literature have been published. These include two reviews from an NIH-organized expert panel that appeared in a 4-article special section of \"American Psychologist\". Several chapters in edited academic books have also reviewed the empirical literature.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) discerns four dimensions of health, namely physical, social, mental, and spirirtual health.\n\nAccording to Ellison & Levin (1998), some studies indicate that religiosity appears to positively correlate with physical health. For instance, mortality rates are lower among people who frequently attend religious events and consider themselves both religious and spiritual. Accoridng to Seybold & Hill (2001), almost all studies involved in the effect of religion on a person's physical health have revealed it has a positive attribution to their lifestyle. These studies have been carried out among all ages,genders and religions. These are based on the experience of religion is positive in itself.\n\nOne possibility is that religion provides physical health benefits indirectly. Church attendees present with lower rates of alcohol consumption and improvement in mood, which is associated with better physical health. Kenneth Pargament is a major contributor to the theory of how individuals may use religion as a resource in coping with stress, His work seems to show the influence of attribution theory. Additional evidence suggests that this relationship between religion and physical health may be causal. Religion may reduce likelihood of certain diseases. Studies suggest that it guards against cardiovascular disease by reducing blood pressure, and also improves immune system functioning.\nSimilar studies have been done investigating religious emotions and health. Although religious emotions, such as humility, forgiveness, and gratitude confer health benefits, it is unclear if religious people cultivate and experience those emotions more frequently than non-religious peoples.\n\nChurch attendance has been found to increase life expectancy (Hummer et al. 1999) with a life expectancy at age 20 of 83 years for frequent attendees and 75 years for non-attendees. The finding, however, does not prove that religion in itself increases life expectancy.\n\nKark et. (1996) included almost 4,000 Israelis, over 16 years (beginning in 1970), death rates were compared between the experimental group (people belonging to 11 religious kibbutzim) versus the control group (people belonging to secular kibbutzim). Some determining factors for the groups included the date the kibbutz was created, geography of the different groups, and the similarity in age. It was determined that “belonging to a religious collective was associated with a strong protective effect\". Not only do religious people tend to exhibit healthier lifestyles, they also have a strong support system that secular people would not normally have. A religious community can provide support especially through a stressful life event such as the death of a loved one or illness. There is the belief that a higher power will provide healing and strength through the rough times which also can explain the lower mortality rate of religious people vs. secular people.\n\nThe existence of ‘religious struggle’ in elderly patients was predictive of greater risk of mortality in a study by Pargament et al. (2001). Results indicate that patients, with a previously sound religious life, experienced a 19% to 28% greater mortality due to the belief that God was supposedly punishing them or abandoning them.\n\nA number of religious practices have been reported to cause infections. These happened during an ultra-orthodox Jewish circumcisions practice known as metzitzah b'peh, the ritual 'side roll' in Hinduism, the Christian communion chalice, during the Islamic Hajj and after the Muslim ritual ablution.\n\nSome religions claim that praying for somebody who is sick can have positive effects on the health of the person being prayed for. Meta-studies of the literature in the field have been performed showing evidence only for no effect or a potentially small effect. For instance, a 2006 meta analysis on 14 studies concluded that there is \"no discernible effect\" while a 2007 systemic review of intercessory prayer reported inconclusive results, noting that 7 of 17 studies had \"small, but significant, effect sizes\" but the review noted that the most methodologically rigorous studies failed to produce significant findings.\n\nRandomized controlled trials of intercessory prayer have not yielded significant effects on health. These trials have compared personal, focused, committed and organized intercessory prayer with those interceding holding some belief that they are praying to God or a god versus any other intervention. A Cochrane collaboration review of these trials concluded that 1) results were equivocal, 2) evidence does not support a recommendation either in favor or against the use of intercessory prayer and 3) any resources available for future trials should be used to investigate other questions in health research.\nIn a case-control study done following 5,286 Californians over a 28-year period in which variables were controlled for (i.e. age, race/ethnicity, gender, education level), participants who went to church on a frequent basis (defined as attending a religious service once a week or more) were 36% less likely to die during that period. However, this can be partly be attributed to a better lifestyle since religious people tend to drink and smoke less and eat a healthier diet.\n\nEvidence suggests that religiosity can be a pathway to both mental health and mental disorder. For example, religiosity is positively associated with mental disorders that involve an excessive amount of self-control and negatively associated with mental disorders that involve a lack of self-control. Other studies have found indications of mental health among both the religious and the secular. For instance, Vilchinsky & Kravetz found negative correlations with psychological distress among religious and secular subgroups of Jewish students. In addition, intrinsic religiosity has been inversely related to depression in the elderly, while extrinsic religiosity has no relation or even a slight positive relation to depression. Religiosity has been found to mitigate the negative impact of injustice and income inequality on life satisfaction.\n\nThe link between religion and mental health may be due to the guiding framework or social support that it offers to individuals. By these routes, religion has the potential to offer security and significance in life, as well as valuable human relationships, to foster mental health. Some theorists have suggested that the benefits of religion and religiosity are accounted for by the social support afforded by membership in a religious group.\n\nReligion may also provide coping skills to deal with stressors, or demands perceived as straining. Pargament’s three primary styles of religious coping are 1) self-directing, characterized by self-reliance and acknowledgement of God, 2) deferring, in which a person passively attributes responsibility to God, and 3) collaborative, which involves an active partnership between the individual and God and is most commonly associated with positive adjustment. This model of religious coping has been criticized for its over-simplicity and failure to take into account other factors, such as level of religiosity, specific religion, and type of stressor. Additional work by Pargament involves a detailed delineation of positive and negative forms of religious coping, captured in the BREIF-RCOPE questionnaire which have been linked to a range of positive and negative psychological outcomes.\n\nStudies have shown a negative relationship between spiritual well-being and depressive symptoms. In one study, those who were assessed to have a higher spiritual quality of life on a spiritual well-being scale had less depressive symptoms. Cancer and AIDS patients who were more spiritual had lower depressive symptoms than religious patients. Spirituality shows beneficial effects possibly because it speaks to one’s ability to intrinsically find meaning in life, strength, and inner peace, which is especially important for very ill patients.\n\nExline et al. 1999 showed that the difficulty in forgiving God and alienation from God were associated with higher levels of depression and anxiety. Among those who currently believed in God, forgiving God for a specific, unfortunate incident predicted lower levels of anxious and depressed mood.\n\nStudies have reported beneficial effects of spirituality on the lives of patients with schizophrenia, major depression, and other psychotic disorders. Schizophrenic patients were less likely to be re-hospitalized if families encouraged religious practice, and in depressed patients who underwent religiously based interventions, their symptoms improved faster than those who underwent secular interventions. Furthermore, a few cross-sectional studies have shown that more religiously involved people had less instance of psychosis.\n\nResearch shows that religiosity moderates the relationship between “thinking about meaning of life” and life satisfaction. For individuals scoring low and moderately on religiosity, thinking about the meaning of life is negatively correlated with life satisfaction. For people scoring highly on religiosity, however, this relationship is positive. Religiosity has also been found to moderate the relationship between negative affect and life satisfaction, such that life satisfaction is less strongly influenced by the frequency of negative emotions in more religious (vs less religious) individuals.\n\nOne of the most common ways that people cope with trauma is through the comfort found in religious or spiritual practices. Psychologists of religion have performed multiple studies to measure the positive and negative effects of this coping style. Leading researchers have split religious coping into two categories: positive religious coping and negative religious coping. Individuals who use positive religious coping are likely to seek spiritual support and look for meaning in a traumatic situation. Negative religious coping (or spiritual struggles) expresses conflict, question, and doubt regarding issues of God and faith.\n\nThe effects of religious coping are measured in many different circumstances, each with different outcomes. Some common experiences where people use religious coping are fear-inflicting events such as 9/11 or the holocaust, death and sickness, and near death experiences. Research also shows that people also use religious coping to deal with everyday stressors in addition to life-changing traumas. The underlying assumption of the ability of religion to influence the coping process lies in the hypothesis that religion is more than a defence mechanism as it was viewed by Sigmund Freud. Rather than inspiring denial, religion stimulates reinterpretations of negative events through the sacred lens.\n\nSpiritual Health is one of four dimensions to well-being as defined by the World Health Organization (WHO), which include physical, social, and mental.\n\nThe preamble to Constitution of the World Health Organization (WHO) adopted by the International Health Conference held in New York from 19 June to 22 July 1946 and signed on 22 July 1946 by the representatives of 61 States defined health as a state of \"physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity\" and it has not been amended.\n\nHowever, in 1983 twenty-two WHO member countries from the Eastern Mediterranean Region proposed a draft resolution to this preamble to include reference to spiritual health, such that it would redefine health as a state of \"physical, mental, spiritual and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity\".\n\nWhilst WHO did not amend the preamble to its constitution, resolution WHA31.13 passed by the Thirty-seventh World Health Assembly, in 1984 called upon Member States to consider including in their Health For All strategies a spiritual dimension as defined in that resolution in accordance with their own social and cultural patterns\n\nThe complete description of the spiritual dimension as articulated by the Health Assembly is as follows:\nThe spiritual dimension is understood to imply a phenomenon that is not material in nature, but belongs to the realm of ideas, beliefs, values and ethics that have arisen in the minds and conscience of human beings, particularly ennobling ideas. Ennobling ideas have given rise to health ideals, which have led to a practical strategy for Health for All that aims at attaining a goal that has both a material and non-material component. If the material component of the strategy can be provided to people, the non-material or spiritual one is something that has to arise within people and communities in keeping with their social and cultural patterns. The spiritual dimension plays a great role in motivating people’s achievement in all aspects of life.\n\nSince the inclusion of spiritual health within WHO's purview, a number of other significant organizations have also attended to spirituality and incorporated reference to it in key documents, including the United Nations action plan Agenda 21 which recognizes the right of individuals to \"healthy physical, mental, and spiritual development\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37730964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37730964", "title": "Religion in the United States Virgin Islands", "text": "Religion in the United States Virgin Islands\n\nReligion in the United States Virgin Islands is varied. Only 7% of the religious population is non-Christian.\n\nAs in most Caribbean countries, Christianity is the dominant religion in the U.S. Virgin Islands. Protestantism is most prevalent, reflecting the territory's Danish colonial heritage. There is also a strong Roman Catholic presence. Protestants makes up 59% (Baptist 42%, Episcopalian 17%) of the total religious population on the islands. Roman Catholics are 34% of the religious population. \n\n\"See also\": \"Episcopal Diocese of the Virgin Islands\" and \"Roman Catholic Diocese of Saint Thomas\"\n\nJews began settling the Danish Virgin Islands in 1655, and by 1796 the first synagogue was inaugurated. In its heyday in the mid-19th century, the Jewish community made up half of the white population. One of the earliest colonial governors, Gabriel Milan, was a Sephardic Jew.\n\nToday, there are still Jews living in the Islands. The St. Thomas Synagogue built in 1833, is the second-oldest existing synagogue and longest in continuous use now under the American flag. The synagogue is associated with the Reform Judaism movement. There is also a synagogue Temple B'nai Or at Hermon Hill on St. Croix close to Christiansted.\n\nThere is an Islamic school based in St. Croix, known as Iqra academy.\n\nThere is a Buddhist temple located on the island of St. Thomas and more.\n\nAs in most of the Caribbean, various forms of Rastafari are practiced on the island.\n"}
{"id": "5851271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5851271", "title": "Religious goods store", "text": "Religious goods store\n\nA religious goods store or religious supplies shop is a store specializing in supplying materials used in the practice of Chinese folk religion, Taoism and Chinese Buddhism.\n\nThese shops are abundant across the Greater Chinese region as well as Overseas Chinese communities around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4050456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4050456", "title": "Riaumont", "text": "Riaumont\n\nRiaumont (literally meaning \"royal mountain\") is located on the hill of Riaumont, in the commune of Liévin, in the Pas-de-Calais \"département\" in northern France, in the former province of Artois. It refers to a Benedictine monastic community, a children's residential village, and a Scout group.\n\nThe village and religious community was first directed since its formation in the 1960s by Father Revet, until his death in 1986.\n\nBuilt for young people at the request of the DDASS (the French social services) and the judges of Pas-de-Calais, this centre and independent school accepts children with disabilities like autism. The establishment was a main centre for children placed under the supervision of the DDASS. The French State financed the construction and the maintenance of the buildings as well as the teachers' salaries. The children have worked on the various building sites (receptions, farm, chapel, scout building, monastery, etc.), sometimes as a practical placement of vocational teaching courses, helping to transform the initial reception into a Catholic monastic centre. In parallel, Father Revet determined to set up a religious scouting movement.\n\nIn 1979, the DDASS found serious problems (poor hygiene, food safety conditions and maltreatment), and decided to close the centre in April 1982. The establishment now accommodates children removed by their families, in particular children originating from South-east Asia.\n\nThe religious community of Sainte-Croix (Holy-Cross) celebrates the liturgy according to the 1962 form of the Roman Rite, under the provisions of the motu proprio \"Summorum Pontificum\". Its states an attribute of a twofold origin: Benedictine (the monks are Benedictine Oblates) and the scout movement. The frieze and the dress of ceremony refer to religious military orders. The main symbol is the potent, distinguished cross of the scouts of France and originating from the cross of kingdom of Jerusalem.\n\nPeople can see the works of the painter Gerard Ambroselli like the fresco in the canopy but also of the drawings and paintings originally from draughtsman and illustrator Pierre Joubert. Scouting is ubiquitous and the three principal buildings do the activities: \"Godefroy de Bouillon\", \"Beaumanoir\" and \"Cedars\".\n\nThe children from sixth to ninth grade are accommodated with the boarding school Holy Jean Bosco, located in the building \"Beaumanoir\". The pupils need to be prepared for more than ten years for the official examination of Brevet des collèges which is the first French diploma, obtained after 4 years of junior high school in general and technical areas. The children have to do the \"Hattemer course\" (mail-given / correspondence course) and the courses are given by the brothers of Riaumont as well as by external supply teachers. The classes are often small between five and about fifteen pupils and they are all the \"boys of Riaumont\" but the courses of catechism are also open to other children of different surroundings. The extracurricular activities are extensive: do-it-yourself, froissartage, penmanship and printing works, film club, games, dealing with the farm and the animals, singing, brass band and music, reading in the library, heraldic workshop, sports activities, etc.\n\nThe pedagogy of the school is presented in the form of a return to the Christian realism, inspired by scouting founded by Robert Baden-Powell. The teaching objective of the school is to carry out a full Christian education by taking it as a starting point of the realism thomist and the pedagogy of scouting. It is a question of showing, by the practice, the benefits of the traditional scouting which joins with the wisdom of a philosophical thomist in to original reality, by the practice of manual work. Concerning pedagogy scouts compare some to the description given by the historian of scouting Jean-Jacques Gauthé in a newspaper article \"Le Monde\" on September 2, 1998 entitled ' ' the Little Soldiers of scouting \": \"Defense of the true scouting, since they estimate that this one was denatured by the Scouts de France [...] defense of the true faith through the mass of saint Pie V [...] dispute of the values resulting from the Revolution of 1789 [...] constant references to the counter-revolution of which they relate to the topics [...] the values which they defend are those of the \"ongoing beyond of oneself\" by demanding physical activities, virility sometimes resulting in a paramilitary style [...] the testimony to form a Catholic elite is manifest\"\n\nStemming from a troop of Scouts de France in the 1960s, the \"Association des Scouts et Guides de Riaumont\" (Association of the Scouts and Guides of Riaumont) passed successively by Scouts d'Europe, Scouts Saint-George and the Association Française de Scouts et Guides Catholiques. It is today, a federation affiliated to the Eclaireurs Neutres de France (ENF), a movement of Scouting founded in 1947, approved by the ministry for Youth and Sports. Each weekend, as well as the camp starting every July, the Scout units of Riaumont (willow, wolf cubs, guides, scouts, guides elder and teamster) are opened to all children. The village has some curiosities which exploited with the Scouting, such monument with the memory of the Scouts who died in France, a \"Scout\" museum which gathers many badges and parts of uniform resulting from various associations or uniforms and objects which have may belonged to Scout chaplains, or with chaplains of the trenches, lasting until the First World War. In addition, for the researchers and academics, the \"Scout laboratory\" gathers many works, newspapers and readings on Scouting.\n\n"}
{"id": "16343049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16343049", "title": "Shmohawk", "text": "Shmohawk\n\n__notoc__\nShmohawk or schmohawk is a slang term that might have derived from \"schmo\", a slang term meaning \"fool\". The HBO television show \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\" gave the word recent notoriety. Earlier uses of the word can be found in the \"Crusader Rabbit\" animated cartoon \"Crusader and the Schmohawk Indians\", released in 1950 and in Saul Bellow's 1958 novel \"Henderson the Rain King\".\n\n\"Shmohawk\" or \"schmohawk\" is the word mohawk with the prefix \"shm-.\" In English, this prefix has a mocking or dismissive meaning. The \"shm-\" prefix's English language meaning is borrowed from the Yiddish language, in which the prefix has been used to similar effect.\n\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "51598579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51598579", "title": "Shoki Coe", "text": "Shoki Coe\n\nShoki Coe (; 20 August 1914 – 28 October 1988) was a minister of the Presbyterian Church in Taiwan, erstwhile principal of Tainan Theological Seminary and director of the Theological Education Fund of the World Council of Churches. Through the Theological Education Fund, he is widely known for his coinage of the notion of \"contextualizing theology,\" later better known as \"contextual theology,\" which argues for theology's need to respond to the sociopolitical concerns of a local context.\n\nHis name reveals several layers of complexity in his own sense of identity. He was given the name Chang Hui Hwang (or C. H. Hwang) at birth, a name he published under in 1968. However, the name he chose to publish under in the 1970s and 1980s was Shoki Coe, the Anglicized version of his name in Japanese, reflecting the context of the Taiwan of his birth under Japanese rule.\n"}
{"id": "3001621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3001621", "title": "So mote it be", "text": "So mote it be\n\n\"So mote it be\" is a ritual phrase used by Freemasons, in Rosicrucianism, and more recently by Neopagans. It means \"so may it be\", \"so it is required\", or \"so must it be\", and may be said at the end of a prayer in a similar way to \"amen\". The phrase appears in the Halliwell or Regius Manuscript, the earliest known document relating to a society of Masons in England dating from the first half of the 15th Century. \"Amen! amen! so mot hyt be! Say we so all per charyté\".\n\nThe phrase has been taken up by neopagans and they use it in a similar way in their ceremonies and rituals.\n"}
{"id": "8673047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8673047", "title": "Spirit of Guidance", "text": "Spirit of Guidance\n\nThe Spirit of Guidance (Arabic:روح الارشاد, \"Ruh-ul-Irshad\")is the term in Universal Sufism for Universal Intelligence as it is manifest in the human mind.\n\nFor a Sufi, the diversity of names and forms of the world's religious tendencies are like veils covering the phenomena of the 'Spirit of Guidance' manifested at all levels of evolution. This Inner Guidance is constantly present in the beautiful book of nature's mysteries, which reveals a never-ending Message of Love, providing one's understanding of the relationship between matter and spirit is in harmony with one's feeling heart.\n\n\nEsther Hicks describes it this way: \"When you finally get it that you have this personal relationship with this Stream and that you have this magnificent Guidance System within you that lets you know, in every particle of every moment, what you're doing relative to the Stream, and so, you let your dominant intent be to connect to the Stream and radiate it as much as you can, then, suddenly, everything else falls into its perfect place.\"\n"}
{"id": "6633306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6633306", "title": "The Flight to Lucifer", "text": "The Flight to Lucifer\n\nThe Flight to Lucifer: A Gnostic Fantasy is a 1979 novel by the critic Harold Bloom, inspired by his reading of David Lindsay's fantasy novel \"A Voyage to Arcturus\" (1920). The plot, which adapts Lindsay's characters and narrative and features themes drawn from Gnosticism, concerns Thomas Perscors, who is transported from Earth to the planet Lucifer by Seth Valentinus.\n\nThe book received mainly negative or critical commentary, and was compared, including by Bloom himself, to \"Star Wars\" (1977). Bloom eventually repudiated the work.\n\nThomas Perscors (\"through fire\"), an incarnation of Primal Man, is taken from Earth to the planet Lucifer by Seth Valentinus, a reincarnation of the gnostic theologian Valentinus. Their guide is Olam, who is an Aeon, an emanation of the true god. Lucifer is controlled by \"Saklas\", which is a Gnostic name for the false creator. Olam has brought Perscors to Lucifer to fight Saklas, and has brought Valentinus so he can remember his true self. Perscors cripples Saklas and changes the order of things across all of Lucifer.\n\n\"The Flight to Lucifer\" received mixed reviews from Martin Bickman in \"Library Journal\" and the critic John Leonard in \"The New York Times\", and a negative review in \"Kirkus Reviews\". The book was also reviewed by Frank McConnell in \"The New Republic\" and Marilyn Butler in the \"London Review of Books\" and discussed by the journalist David Kipen in \"The Atlantic\".\n\nBickman wrote that, \"Despite the often dazzling imagery and the fast narrative pace, a reader without a detailed knowledge of Gnosticism is likely to be disappointed, if not dismayed\", but concluded that the book belongs, \"in large public and academic collections as another facet of one of our most important and controversial literary theorists.\" Leonard compared the book to the science fiction writer Frank Herbert's \"Children of Dune\" (1976) and to \"Star Wars\" (1977), and questioned the accuracy of Bloom's treatment of Gnosticism. \"Kirkus Reviews\" described the book as tedious and, \"A close-to-unreadable exercise, only for those who share Bloom's gnostic preoccupations--or collectors of literary oddities.\" Kipen dismissed the novel as unsuccessful.\n\nBloom, writing in \"Agon\" (1982), described \"The Flight to Lucifer\" as his \"first attempt at literary fantasy\", and explained that it was inspired by David Lindsay's \"A Voyage to Arcturus\" (1920), with his characters \"Thomas Perscors\" and \"Saklas\" being the equivalents, respectively, of Lindsay's original characters \"Maskull\" and \"Crystalman\". He identified Edmund Spenser and Franz Kafka as additional influences on his novel. He gave his relationship to Lindsay's novel, which according to his own account he had \"obsessively\" read hundreds of times, as an example of his theory of the anxiety of influence. He considered Lindsay's novel to be superior to his, partly because he attempted deliberately to assimilate Lindsay's characters and narrative to second-century Gnosticism rather than being a \"naive Gnostic\" like Lindsay, who according to Bloom inadvertently created a personal Gnostic heresy. He wrote that despite its \"violent narrative\", his novel \"has too much trouble getting off the ground\" and \"reads as though Walter Pater was writing \"Star Wars\".\" He nevertheless saw \"The Flight to Lucifer\" as having some merit, and wrote that it \"does get better as it goes along\" and \"towards its close can be called something of a truly weird work\".\n\nBloom stated in a 2015 interview with Daniel D'addario in \"Time\" magazine that after re-reading \"The Flight to Lucifer\", he decided that the novel would \"never do\", and that, \"I had to pay the publisher not to have a second printing of the paperback. If I could go around and get rid of all the surviving copies, I would.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "222757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222757", "title": "Traditional healers of South Africa", "text": "Traditional healers of South Africa\n\nTraditional healers of South Africa are practitioners of traditional African medicine in Southern Africa. They fulfill different social and political roles in the community, including divination, healing physical, emotional and spiritual illnesses, directing birth or death rituals, finding lost cattle, protecting warriors, counteracting witchcraft, and narrating the history, cosmology, and myths of their tradition. There are two main types of traditional healers within the Nguni, Sotho-Tswana, and Tsonga societies of Southern Africa: the diviner (\"sangoma\"), and the herbalist (\"inyanga\"). These healers are effectively South African shamans who are highly revered and respected in a society where illness is thought to be caused by witchcraft, pollution (contact with impure objects or occurrences) or through neglect of the ancestors. It is estimated that there are as many as 200,000 indigenous traditional healers in South Africa compared to 25,000 Western-trained doctors. Traditional healers are consulted by approximately 60% of the South African population, usually in conjunction with modern biomedical services.\n\nFor harmony between the living and the dead, vital for a trouble-free life, traditional healers believe that the ancestors must be shown respect through ritual and animal sacrifice. They perform summoning rituals by burning plants like \"imphepho\" (\"Helichrysum petiolare\"), dancing, chanting, channelling or playing drums. Traditional healers will often give their patients \"muti\"—medications made from plant, animal and minerals—imbued with spiritual significance. These muti often have powerful symbolism; for example, lion fat might be prepared for children to promote courage. There are medicines for everything from physical and mental illness, social disharmony and spiritual difficulties to potions for protection, love and luck.\n\nAlthough \"sangoma\" is a Zulu term that is colloquially used to commonly describe all types of Southern African traditional healers, there are differences between practices: an inyanga is concerned mainly with medicines made from plants and animals, while a sangoma relies primarily on divination for healing purposes and might also be considered a type of fortune teller. In modern times, colonialism, urbanisation, apartheid and transculturation have blurred the distinction between the two and traditional healers tend to practice both arts. Traditional healers can alternate between these roles by diagnosing common illnesses, selling and dispensing remedies for medical complaints, and divining cause and providing solutions to spiritually or socially centred complaints.\n\nEach culture has their own terminology for their traditional healers. Xhosa traditional healers are known as \"amaxwele\" (herbalists) or \"amagqirha\" (diviners). \"Ngaka\" and \"selaoli\" are the terms in Northern Sotho and Southern Sotho respectively, while among the Venda they are called \"mungome\". The Tsonga refer to their healers as \"n'anga\" or \"mungoma\".\n\nA sangoma is a practitioner of \"ngoma\", a philosophy based on a belief in ancestral spirits (Zulu: \"amadlozi\"; Sesotho: \"badimu\"; Xhosa: \"izinyanya\") and the practice of traditional African medicine, which is often a mix of medicinal plants and various animal body fats or skin. Sangomas perform a holistic and symbolic form of healing by drawing on the embedded beliefs of the Bantu peoples in South Africa, who believe that ancestors in the afterlife guide and protect the living. Sangomas are called to heal, and through them it is believed that ancestors from the spirit world can give instruction and advice to heal illness, social disharmony and spiritual difficulties. Traditional healers work in a sacred healing hut or \"indumba\", where they believe their ancestors reside. Where no physical 'indumba' is available, a makeshift miniature sacred place called \"imsamo\" can be used.\n\nSangomas believe they are able to access advice and guidance from the ancestors for their patients through spirit possession by an ancestor, or mediumship, throwing bones, or by dream interpretation. In possession states, the sangoma works themself into a trance through drumming, dancing and chanting, and allows their ego to step aside for an ancestor to take possession of his or her body and communicate directly with the patient, or dancing fervently beyond their stated ability. The sangoma will provide specific information about the problems of the patient. Some sangomas speak to their patients through normal conversation, whilst others speak in tongues, or languages foreign to their patients, but all languages used by sangomas are indigenous Southern African languages depending on the specific ancestors being called upon. Not all sangomas follow the same rituals or beliefs.\n\nAncestral spirits can be the personal ancestors of the sangoma or the patient or they might be general ancestors associated with the geographic area or the community. It is believed that the spirits have the power to intervene in people's lives who work to connect the sangoma to the spirits that are acting in a manner to cause affliction. For example, a crab could be invoked as a mediator between the human world and the world of spirits because of its ability to move between the world of the land and the sea. Helping and harming spirits are believed to use the human body as a battleground for their own conflicts. By using ngoma, the sangoma believes they can create harmony between the spirits which is thought to bring an alleviation of the patient's suffering.\n\nThe sangoma may burn incense (like \"imphepho\") or sacrifice animals to please the ancestral spirits. Snuff is also used to communicate with the ancestors through prayer.\n\nA sangoma's goal in healing is to establish a balanced and harmless relationship between the afflicted patient and the spirits that are causing their illness or problem. The healer intercedes between the patient and the world of the dead in order to make restitution. This is generally performed through divination (throwing the bones or ancestral channeling), purification rituals, or animal sacrifice to appease the spirits through atonement.\nThrowing the bones to access the advice of ancestors is an alternative practice to the exhausting ritual of possession by the ancestor. In a typical session, a patient will visit the sangoma and the sangoma must determine what the affliction is or the reason the patient has come to them for help. The patient or diviner throws bones on the floor, which may include animal vertebrae, dominoes, dice, coins, shells and stones, each with a specific significance to human life. For example, a hyena bone signifies a thief and will provide information about stolen objects. The sangoma or the patient throws the bones but the ancestors control how they lie. The sangoma then interprets this metaphor in relation to the patient's afflictions, what the ancestors of the patient require, and how to resolve the disharmony. In the same way, sangomas will interpret metaphors present in dreams, either their own or their patients.\n\nWhen the diviner comes to an acceptable understanding of the problem and the patient agrees, she will instruct the patient on a course of medicine which may include the use of ngoma, referral to a herbalist, inyanga (if the sangoma does not have the knowledge themselves), or recommend a Western medicine regimen.\n\nThe spiritually curative medicines prescribed by a traditional healer are called \"muti\". They may be employed in healing as warranted in the opinion of the herbal specialist or inyanga. Muti is a term derived from a Zulu word for tree. African traditional medicine makes extensive use of botanical products but the medicine prescribed by an inyanga may also include other formulations which are zoological or mineral in composition. Traditional medicine uses approximately 3,000 out of 30,000 species of higher plants of Southern Africa. In South African English and Afrikaans, the word muti is sometimes used as a slang term for medicine in general. \nMutis are prepared, and depending on the affliction, a number of purification practices can be administered. These practices include bathing, vomiting, steaming, nasal ingestion, enemas, and cuttings:\n\n\nAn experienced inyanga will generally seek the guidance of an ancestral spirit before embarking to find and collect muti. The healer, through dreams or during prayers, believes they are advised of auspicious times for collecting the plants. In some cases, symbols and dreams are also interpreted to determine which particular plants to collect for a specific patient and where these plants are located. The healer supplements the perceived advice from an ancestral spirit with their own knowledge, training and experience.\n\nBoth men and women can become traditional healers. A sangoma is believed to be \"called\" to heal through an initiation illness; symptoms involve psychosis, headaches, intractable stomach pain, shoulder or neck complaints or illness that cannot be cured by conventional methods. These problems together must be seen by a sangoma as \"twasa\" or the calling of the ancestors. Sangomas believe that failure to respond to the calling will result in further illness until the person concedes and goes to be trained. The word \"twasa\" is derived from \"thwasa\" which means 'the light of the new moon' or from \"ku mu thwasisa\" meaning 'to led to the light'.\n\nA trainee sangoma (or \"ithwasa\") trains formally under another sangoma for a period of anywhere between a number of months and many years. The training involves learning humility to the ancestors, purification through steaming, washing in the blood of sacrificed animals, and the use of muti, medicines with spiritual significance. The ithwasa may not see their families during training and must abstain from sexual contact and often live under harsh and strict conditions. This is part of the cleansing process to prepare the healer for a life's work of dedication to healing and the intense experiences of training tend to earn a deeply entrenched place in the sangoma's memory.\n\nDuring the training period the ithwasa will share their ailments in the form of song and dance, a process that is nurtured by the analysis of dreams, anxieties, and with prayer. The story develops into a song which becomes a large part of the graduation-type ceremony that marks the end of the ithwasa's training. At times in the training, and for the graduation, a ritual sacrifice of an animal is performed (usually chickens and a goat or a cow). \n\nAt the end of thwasa and during initiation, a goat is sacrificed to call to the ancestors and appease them. The local community, friends and family are all invited to the initiation to witness and celebrate the completion of training. The ithwasa is also tested by the local elder sangomas to determine whether they have the skills and insight necessary to heal. The climactic initiation test is to ensure the ithwasa has the ability to \"see\" things hidden from view. This is signified and proved when other sangomas hide the ithwasa's sacred objects, including the gall bladder of the goat that was sacrificed and the ithwasa must, in front of the community, call upon their ancestors, find the hidden objects and return them back to the sangomas that hid them, thus proving they have the ability to \"see\" beyond the physical world.\n\nSangoma can also literally mean 'person of the drum' or 'the drumming one' and drumming is an important part of summoning the ancestors. During times of celebration (e.g. at an Initiation) the possessed sangoma is called to dance and celebrate their ancestors. The sangoma will fall into trance where the ancestors will be channeled (which is signified in Zulu traditions by episodes of convulsive fits) followed by the singing of ancestral songs. These songs are echoed back to the ancestor via the audience in a process of call and response. The possessed sangoma will then change into their traditional ancestral clothing and dance vigorously while others drum and sing in celebration.\n\nThe Zulu word with prefix is \"isangoma\" (pl. \"izangoma\"), alternatively it is also spelled as \"umngoma\" (pl. \"abangoma\"), \"sa ngoma\" means 'do \"ngoma\" and \"i sa ngoma\" means \"those who do \"ngoma\"\", so \"sangoma\" or \"isangoma\" refers specifically to the practitioner of the \"ngoma\" practice. \n\nThe term sangoma is often used colloquially in South Africa for equivalent professions in other Bantu cultures in Southern Africa. Forms of the \"ngoma\" ritual are practiced throughout southern and south-eastern Africa in countries such as South Africa, Swaziland, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Lesotho, Kenya, and Batswana. In more northern areas the practices are generally more diverse and less organized than the southern practices. Among the Kongo, the practice is called \"loka\" or more negatively \"doga\", a term meaning witchcraft.\n\nNgoma is believed to have come to southern Africa during the western Bantu migration that began around 2000 BCE and was further influenced by the eastern Bantu migration that occurred until 500 CE. The practice has evolved along with the social problems of its users. In pre-colonial form ngoma songs dealt mainly with issues of hunting. Over time the system adapted to include the introduction of guns, and later the racial and class struggles of practitioners under colonial rule. In Zimbabwe, the civil war experience lead to a revival of ngoma practice with a new emphasis on the spirits of the victims of war. The service allowed the sangoma to help people cope with their own violent acts as well as those they had fallen victim to. An example of this is the Tsonga who believe that one of the main alien spirits that can bestow powers of clairvoyance and the ability to detect witchcraft is the Ndau Spirit. The Ndau spirit possesses the descendants of the Gaza soldiers who had slain the Ndau and taken their wives. Once the Ndau spirit has been converted from hostile to benevolent forces, the spirits bestow the powers of divination and healing on the n'angna.\n\nIn addition, ngoma has been adapted by many to include both Christian and Muslim beliefs.\n\nSangomas are legally recognised in South Africa as \"traditional health practitioners\", under the \"Traditional Health Practitioners Act of 2007 (Act. 22 of 2007)\" as diviners alongside herbalists, traditional birth attendants, and traditional surgeons. The act calls for the establishment of a national council of traditional health practitioners to regulate and register a.o. sangomas in the country. However, it was only in December 2011 that the National Department of Health took action and opened nominations for seats on an interim council. In October 2012, Health Department spokesperson Joe Maila advised that the Department aimed to have the council up and running by the end of 2012. The Interim Traditional Health Practitioners Council was eventually inaugurated on 12 February 2013. Several sections of the act, dealing with the establishment and governance of the national council and the registration of practitioners, came into effect on 1 May 2014.\n\nPreviously, the South African Parliament had passed the \"Traditional Health Practitioners Act of 2004 (Act. 35 of 2004)\". However, the act was ruled unconstitutional after Doctors for Life International challenged it at the Constitutional Court, citing the insufficient public participation at provincial level in the drafting of the act.\n\nThe South African Law Reform Commission received a submission from the Traditional Healers Organisation requesting the investigation of the constitutionality of the Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957 and the Mpumalanga Witchcraft Suppression Bill of 2007, the drafting of which was suspended in 2008. On 23 March 2010 the Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development approved a South African Law Reform Commission project to review witchcraft legislation. In March 2012 the South African Law Reform Commission advised that Ms Jennifer Joni has been designated as researcher and Judge Dennis Davis has been designated as project leader for Project 135: Review of witchcraft legislation. Dr Theodore Petrus, who completed a doctoral thesis on witchcraft-related crime in 2009, was invited to become part of an advisory committee to assist in the review.\n\nWhile there are recorded instances of white sangomas before 1994, since 1994 an increasing number of white people have openly trained as sangomas in South Africa. The question of authenticity is still an ongoing discussion. According to Nokuzola Mndende of the Icamagu Institute, a Xhosa sangoma and former lecturer in religious studies at the University of Cape Town: Philip Kubekeli, director of the Traditional Medical Practitioners, Herbalist and Spiritual Healers Association, and Phephsile Maseko, spokesperson of the Traditional Healers Organisation, see nothing wrong with white sangomas. Kubekeli and Maseko maintain the position that traditional healing knows no colour.\n\nSeveral white sangomas, interviewed by The Big Issue in 2010, claimed that they have been welcomed by the black community in South Africa, aside from isolated experiences of hostility. On the other hand, there have also been reports that white sangomas have been less readily accepted by black sangomas.\n\nA number of the South African traditions (e.g. Swazi and Tsonga/Shangaan) believe that a foreign or alien spirit can call one to become a traditional healer, especially if there is a significant extreme relationship between one of the healer's biological ancestors and the foreign spirit that occurred in the past. Dr Nhlavana Maseko, founder of the Traditional Healers Organisation, explains: \n\nThe formal health sector has shown continued interest in the role of sangomas and the efficacy of their herbal remedies. Botanists and pharmaceutical scientists continue to study the ingredients of traditional medicines in use by sangomas. Well known contributions to world medicine from South African herbal remedies include aloe, buchu and devil's claw. Public health specialists are now enlisting sangomas in the fight, not only against the spread of HIV/AIDS, but also diarrhoea and pneumonia, which are major causes of death in rural areas, especially in children. In the past decade, the role of traditional healers has become important in fighting the impact of HIV and treating people infected with the virus before they advance to a point where they require (or can obtain) anti-retroviral drugs. A conclusion from a review by UNAIDS in September 2000, regarding collaboration with traditional healers in HIV/AIDS prevention and care, found that modern and traditional belief systems are not incompatible, but complementary.\n\nEstimates of the number of indigenous traditional healers in South Africa ranged up to 200,000 in 1999, compared to 25,000 Western-trained doctors. Traditional healers are consulted first (or exclusively) by approximately 60% of the African population.\n\nWhile for many they provide the healing needed, there are some causes for concern. Charlatans who have not undergone thwasa charge exorbitant prices for fraudulent service, and not all countries in southern Africa have effective regulatory bodies to prevent this practice. Some sangomas have been known to abuse the charismatic power they have over their patients by sexually assaulting them, sometimes dressed up as ritual. Repeated use of the same razor blade to make incisions for muti carries HIV transmission risks in regions where the disease is rife. Western-style doctors have seen a number of cases of patients with serious gastrointestinal problems through the use of muti, especially in enema form, and have coined the phrase \"ritual enema induced colitis\" to describe the phenomenon.\n\nDue to the heavy influx of Western and East African migrants, a large number of mainly unemployed or unskilled foreign nationals have taken advantage of the local population's respect and trust of sangomas and have set up bogus healing practices, where they exploit clients for as much money as possible. These charlatans often call themselves doctors or professors and claim themselves as sangomas, faith healers, psychics or as traditional healers, but have no legitimate references and are not trained as such. In the Cape, they often adopt Muslim sounding names in order to attract the local Cape Coloured population, who are in part Muslim.\n\nThey advertise through flyers, posters and adverts that are commonly plastered on the streets and lamposts of cities throughout South Africa, especially in densely populated urban areas. The adverts make outlandish promises and claims about spells that bring back lost lovers, potions to enlarge penises and spells that will make people rich or provide them with luck to win in gambling or the lottery, to name a few. The sophistication of their advertising also extends to advertising in local newspapers and internet websites. Many people have lost significant amounts of money from scams, tricks and false promises that these charlatans use in their cons. Many women have significantly damaged their reproductive organs and the ability to reproduce, due to back street abortions.\n\nLegitimate sangomas and South African traditional healing organisations are angered by these charlatans and are working to end the trade of bogus traditional healers and fake sangomas through regulation, legal action and awareness. They believe the charlatans harm the reputation of the legitimate traditional healers and also damage the lives of many innocent people. As a general rule, sangomas tend not to advertise through flyers or posters. They tend to rely more on their reputation, word of mouth and their trust in their ancestors to bring them the right clients.\n\nMary Bungeni, a sangoma herself, explains: \n\nDr Motlalepula Matsabisa, director of the Medical Research Council’s Indigenous Knowledge Unit, says there appears to be many fake traditional healers from Eastern and Western Africa around, however because of a lack of regulation, they go unchecked and explains that if anyone can bring about good luck and predict lotto numbers, they wouldn’t be poor themselves. However, he also warns that people should not be gullible.\n\nPhephsile Maseko, national co-ordinator of the Traditional Healers Organisation (THO) says: \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26873470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26873470", "title": "Trope (religion)", "text": "Trope (religion)\n\nIn Judaism, trope (or Yiddish טראָפּ \"trop\") is the musical pronunciation associated with the cantillation marks (accents) used for the ritual chanting of the Torah.\n\nHistorically, the Torah has been chanted to a regularized tune and rhythm. This made memorization of the text (in Hebrew) far easier, and acts as a form of memory aid. It also provides a musical element to the reading and services.\n\nThe language of Ancient Hebrew had no written vowels; to a speaker of the time who could concurrently understand the text, there was, however, little ambiguity: the context would make clear the appropriate (unwritten) vowels to insert before, between or after the written consonants so that the words, as a group, formed a sensible sentence. To help later readers of what became a dead language, a system of vowel markings (dots, dashes, and other symbols above and below the consonants) called pointing was established. The Torah itself, however, is always in non-pointed Ancient Hebrew.\n\nTrope relies on a similar set of independent markings above and below the Ancient Hebrew letters, but these are a form of musical notation indicating the stylized pitches and rhythms to be applied to the syllables of the Hebrew word during the chanting. Ancient Hebrew, when marked with both pointing and trope, makes it possible for a modern reader to pronounce and musically chant the words and phrases without needing to rely on any understanding of the ancient language, nor a memory of the musical form (just as Western musical notation accompanied by printed lyrics allows someone to sing a song they have not heard before).\n\nIn Moravian church, a trope is one of the divisions which forms the Unity of the Brethren.\n\nIn the Western Church, a trope is a phrase, sentence, or verse introduced as embellishment into some part of the text of the Mass or breviary office that is sung by the choir.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3808917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3808917", "title": "White Lotus Day", "text": "White Lotus Day\n\nWhite Lotus Day is a celebration of Theosophists. It is celebrated 8 May, the anniversary of the death of Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, founder of the Theosophical Society. Though there are several theosophical organisations, this is one celebration they have in common.\n\nWhite Lotus Day is a celebration that encourages meditation about the metaphor of the lotus. The lotus is born under the mud, growing through the water to achieve the surface, and therefore the air and the light of sun.\nThis growth is identified with man's life, born in earth but desiring the elevation to the air; representing his middle stage between animals and the ultimate reality. The seeds of lotus contain (even before they germinate) perfectly formed leaves, a miniature shape of what they would become.\nThis flower is often present in eastern religions, which influence is key in the Theosophical Movement.\n\nIn her will, HPB suggested that her friends might gather together on the anniversary of her death (May 8, 1891) and read from Sir Edwin Arnold's \"The Light of Asia\" and from \"The Bhagavad Gita.\" Lotuses grew in unusual profusion one year later. Hence, May 8 became known as White Lotus Day.\n\nSTANZA II. — \"Continued.\"\n\n3. THE HOUR HAD NOT YET STRUCK; THE RAY HAD NOT YET FLASHED INTO THE GERM (a); THE MATRI-PADMA (\"mother lotus\") HAD NOT YET SWOLLEN (b).*\n\n(a) The ray of the “Ever Darkness” becomes, as it is emitted, a ray of effulgent light or life, and flashes into the “Germ” — the point in the Mundane Egg, represented by matter in its abstract sense. But the term “Point” must not be understood as applying to any particular point in Space, for a germ exists in the centre of every atom, and these collectively form “the Germ;” or rather, as no atom can be made visible to our physical eye, the collectivity of these (if the term can be applied to something which is boundless and infinite) forms the noumenon of eternal and indestructible matter.\n\n(b) One of the symbolical figures for the Dual creative power in Nature (matter and force on the material plane) is \"Padma,\" the water-lily of India. The Lotus is the product of heat (fire) and water (vapour or Ether); fire standing in every philosophical and religious system as a representation of the Spirit of Deity,† the active, male, generative principle; and Ether, or the Soul of matter, the light of the fire, for the receptive female principle from which everything in this Universe emanated. Hence, Ether or Water is the Mother, and Fire is the Father. Sir W. Jones (and before him archaic botany) showed that the seeds of the Lotus contain — even before they germinate — perfectly formed leaves, the miniature shape of what one day, as perfect plants, they will become: nature thus giving us a specimen of the preformation of its production . . . the seed of all phanerogamous plants bearing proper flowers containing an embryo plantlet ready formed.‡ (See Part II., “The Lotus Flower as a Universal Symbol.”) This explains the sentence “The Mother had not yet swollen” — the form being usually sacrificed to the inner or root idea in Archaic symbology.\n\nThe Lotus, or Padma, is, moreover, a very ancient and favourite simile for the Kosmos itself, and also for man. The popular reasons given are, firstly, the fact just mentioned, that the Lotus-seed contains within itself a perfect miniature of the future plant, which typefies the fact that the spiritual prototypes of all things exist in the immaterial world before those things become materialised on Earth. Secondly, the fact that the Lotus plant grows up through the water, having its root in the Ilus, or mud, and spreading its flower in the air above. The Lotus thus typifies the life of man and also that of the Kosmos; for the Secret Doctrine teaches that the elements of both are the same, and that both are developing in the same direction. The root of the Lotus sunk in the mud represents material life, the stalk passing up through the water typifies existence in the astral world, and the flower floating on the water and opening to the sky is emblematical of spiritual being.\n† Even in Christianity. (See Part II., “Primordial Substance and Divine Thought.”)\n‡ Gross, “The Heathen Religion,” p. 195.\n\n"}
{"id": "90195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90195", "title": "Xolotl", "text": "Xolotl\n\nIn Aztec mythology, Xolotl () was the god with associations to both lightning and death. He was associated with the sunset and would guard the Sun as it traveled through the underworld every night. Dogs were associated with Xolotl. This deity and a dog were believed to lead the soul on its journey to the underworld. He was commonly depicted as a monstrous dog. Xolotl was the god of fire and lightning. He was also god of twins, monsters, misfortune, sickness, and deformities. Xolotl is the canine brother and twin of Quetzalcoatl, the pair being sons of the virgin Coatlicue. He is the dark personification of Venus, the evening star, and was associated with heavenly fire.\n\nXolotl was the sinister god of monstrosities who wears the spirally-twisted wind jewel and the ear ornaments of Quetzalcoatl. His job was to protect the sun from the dangers of the underworld. As a double of Quetzalcoatl, he carries his conch-like ehecailacacozcatl or wind jewel. Xolotl accompanied Quetzalcoatl to Mictlan, the land of the dead, or the underworld, to retrieve the bones from those who inhabited the previous world (Nahui Atl) to create new life for the present world, Nahui Ollin, the sun of movement. In a sense, this re-creation of life is reacted every night when Xolotl guides the sun through the underworld. In the tonalpohualli, Xolotl rules over day Ollin (movement) and over trecena 1-Cozcacuauhtli (vulture).\n\nHis empty eye sockets are explained in the legend of Teotihuacan, in which the gods decided to sacrifice themselves for the newly created sun. Xolotl withdrew from this sacrifice and wept so much his eyes fell out of their sockets.\nAccording to the creation recounted in the Florentine Codex , after the Fifth Sun was initially created, it did not move. Ehecatl (\"God of Wind\") consequently began slaying all other gods to induce the newly created Sun into movement. Xolotl, however, was unwilling to die in order to give movement to the new Sun. Xolotl transformed himself into a young maize plant with two stalks (xolotl), a doubled maguey plant (mexolotl), and an amphibious animal (axolotl). Xolotl is thus a master transformer. In the end, Ehecatl succeeded in finding and killing Xolotl.\n\nIn art, Xolotl was typically depicted as a dog-headed man, a skeleton, or a deformed monster with reversed feet. An incense burner in the form of a skeletal canine depicts Xolotl. As a psychopomp, Xolotl would guide the dead on their journey to Mictlan the afterlife in myths. His two spirit animal forms are the Xoloitzcuintli dog and the water salamander species known as the Axolotl. Xolos served as companions to the Aztecs in this life and also in the after-life, as many dog remains and dog sculptures have been found in Aztec burials, including some at the main temple in Tenochtitlan. Dogs were often victims of ritual sacrifice so that they could accompany their master on his voyage through Mictlan, the underworld. Their main duty was to help their owners cross a deep river. It is possible that dog sculptures also found in burials were also intended to help people on this journey. Xoloitzcuintli is the official name of the Mexican Hairless Dog (also known as \"perro pelón mexicano\" in Mexican Spanish), a pre-Columbian canine breed from Mesoamerica dating back to over 3500 years ago. This is one of many native dog breeds in the Americas and it is often confused with the Peruvian Hairless Dog. The name \"Xoloitzcuintli\" references Xolotl because this dog's mission was to accompany the souls of the dead in their journey into eternity. The name \"Axolotl\" comes from Nahuatl, the Aztec language. One translation of the name connects the Axolotl to Xolotl. The most common translation is \"water-dog\" . \"Atl\" for water and \"Xolotl\" for dog.\n\nIn the Aztec calendar, the ruler of the day, Itzcuintli (\"Dog\"), is Mictlantecuhtli, the god of death and lord of Mictlan, the afterlife.\n\nXolotl is sometimes depicted carrying a torch in the surviving Maya codices, which reference the Maya tradition that the dog brought fire to mankind. In the Mayan codices, the dog is conspicuously associated with the god of death, storm, and lightning. Xolotl appears to have affinities with the Zapotec and Maya lightning-dog, and may represent the lightning which descends from the thundercloud, the flash, the reflection of which arouses in many primitive people the belief that lightning is \"double\", and leads them to suppose a connection between lightning and twins.\n\nXolotl originated in the southern regions, and may represent fire rushing down from the heavens or light flaming up in the heavens. Xolotl was originally the name for lightning beast of the Maya tribe, often taking the form of a dog. The dog plays an important role in Maya manuscripts. He is the lightning beast, who darts from heaven with a torch in his hand. Xolotl is represented directly as a dog, and is distinguished as the deity of air and of the four directions of the wind by Quetzalcoatl's breast ornament. Xolotl is to be considered equivalent to the beast darting from heaven of the Maya manuscript. The dog is the animal of the dead and therefore of the Place of Shadows. \n\nEduard Seler associates Xolotl's portrayal as a dog with the belief that dogs accompany the souls of the dead to Mictlan. He finds further evidence of the association between Xolotl, dogs, death, and Mictlan in the fact that Mesoamericans viewed twins as unnatural monstrosities and consequently commonly killed one of the two twins shortly after birth. Seler speculates that Xolotl represents the murdered twin who dwells in the darkness of Mictlan, while Quetzalcoatl (\"The Precious Twin\") represents the surviving twin who dwells in the light of the sun.\n\nIn manuscripts the setting sun, devoured by the earth, is opposite Xolotl's image. Quetzalcoatl and Xolotl constitute the twin phases of Venus as the morning and evening star, respectively. Quetzalcoatl as the morning star acts as the harbinger of the Sun's rising (rebirth) every dawn, Xolotl as the evening star acts as the harbinger of the Sun's setting (death) every dusk. In this way they divide the single life-death process of cyclical transformation into its two phases: one leading from birth to death, the other from death to birth.\n\nXolotl was the patron of the Mesoamerican ballgame. Some scholars argue the ballgame symbolizes the Sun's perilous and uncertain nighttime journey through the underworld. Xolotl is able to help in the Sun's rebirth since he possesses the power to enter and exit the underworld. In several of the manuscripts Xolotl is depicted striving at this game against other gods. For example, in the Codex Mendoza we see him playing with the moon-god, and can recognize him by the sign ollin which accompanies him, and by the gouged-out eye in which that symbol ends. Seler thinks \"that the root of the name ollin suggested to Mexicans the motion of the rubber ball \"olli\" and, as a consequence, ball-playing.\"\n\nOllin is pulsating, oscillating, and centering motion-change. It is typified by bouncing balls, pulsating hearts, labor contractions, earthquakes, flapping butterfly wings, the undulating motion of weft activities in weaving, and the oscillating path of the Fifth Sun over and under the surface of the earth. Ollin is the motion-change of cyclical completion.\n\nA jade statue of a skeletal Xolotl carrying a solar disc bearing an image of the Sun on his back (called \"the Night Traveler\") succinctly portrays Xolotl's role in assisting the Sun through the process of death, gestation, and rebirth. Xolotl's association with ollin motion-change suggests proper completions and gestations must instantiate ollin motion-change. Ollin-shaped decomposition and integration (i.e., death) promote ollin-shaped composition and integration (i.e., rebirth and renewal).\n\nA close relationship between Xolotl and Nanahuatzin exists. Xolotl is probably identical with Nanahuatl (Nanahuatzin).\nSeler characterizes Nanahuatzin (\"Little Pustule Covered One\"), who is deformed by syphilis, as an aspect of Xolotl in his capacity as god of monsters, deforming diseases, and deformities. The syphilitic god Nanahuatzin is an avatar of Xolotl.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36940014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36940014", "title": "Yiddish Moment", "text": "Yiddish Moment\n\nDer Yiddish Moment (Yiddish די ייִדיש מאָמענט) (not to be confused with \"Der Moment\") is an online Yiddish language newspaper. It is updated Monthly and covers religious and secular issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52214548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52214548", "title": "Zamzam (party)", "text": "Zamzam (party)\n\nZamzam is a moderate Islamist political party in Jordan which was established in 2016 by the Zamzam initiative members, who have defected from the Jordanian Muslim Brotherhood. The party won 5 seats in the 2016 general elections.\n"}
