{"id": "22900453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22900453", "title": "A Woman Is a Risky Bet: Six Orchestra Conductors", "text": "A Woman Is a Risky Bet: Six Orchestra Conductors\n\nA Woman Is a Risky Bet: Six Orchestra Conductors (Swedish: \"Dirigenterna\") is a 1987 Swedish documentary film about women orchestra conductors directed by Christina Olofson.\n\nIn \"A Woman Is a Risky Bet\" we meet six women who have broken their way into a man's world – the world of conducting.\n\nJoAnn Falletta and Victoria Bond from U.S., and from Sweden, Veronika Dudarova and Camilla Kolchinsky from the USSR share a passion for music and the courage to break with existing values and face challenge. Christina Olofson takes us to New York City, Moscow, Stockholm and Oslo to meet them. The film covers preparations, rehearsals and parts of concerts. At home, alone with the conductor's score, they give us their account of the work of the conductor, of their convictions and their love for music.\n\nThe skepticism towards women conductors and musicians by some becomes obvious in a visit to the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra as well as in interviews with international impresarios. Conductors Sixten Ehrling and Jorge Mester make comments on what they believe is the prevailing conservative attitudes among colleagues.\n\nThe rehearsal and concert scenes in the film reveal the strengths and weaknesses of the featured conductors; Falletta leading the Queens Philharmonic in Stravinsky's \"The Rite of Spring\", Dudarova with the Moscow State Symphony Orchestra and Choir rehearsing Mozart's Requiem, Nerbe conducting Mozart's \"Linz Symphony\" and Kolchinsky directing von Weber's overture to the opera \"Euryanthe\".\n\n\"Only poor soldiers don't want to be generals.\" – Veronika Dudarova\n\n"}
{"id": "9423439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9423439", "title": "Alcuin Society", "text": "Alcuin Society\n\nA voluntary association established in 1965 by Geoff Spencer, the Alcuin Society is a non-profit organisation founded for the book arts. It is located in Canada. It should not be confused with the Alcuin Club, an Anglican publishing society. \n\nAmong the other six founding members is Basil Stuart-Stubbs.\n\nThe society is named after the Alcuin of York.\n\nSince 1996, the society has awarded an Annual Award for Excellence in Book Design. In 2007, the society started awarding the Robert R. Reid Award and Medal for lifetime achievement or extraordinary contributions to the book arts in Canada. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12037702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12037702", "title": "Ana Mariscal", "text": "Ana Mariscal\n\nAna María Arroyo Mariscal (31 July 1923 – 28 March 1995) better known as Ana Mariscal was a classic Spanish film actress, director, screenwriter and film producer. She also acted in Argentinean films. She was involved in well over 50 films between 1940 and 1968, frequently starring in films she also wrote and directed. She is iconic to 1940s and 50s Spanish cinema. Her brother Luis Arroyo (1915–1956) was also an actor and film director.\n\nMariscal was born in Madrid in 1923 to a middle-class family. Her father owned a furniture store and a theater that would provide Mariscal much of her early exposure to acting. While occasionally appearing in theater productions with her brother, Mariscal intended to go to university to study mathematics. She decided to pursue acting after being incidentally cast in her first film role.\n\nAna Mariscal began her career after accompanying her actor brother Luis Arroyo to an audition for \"El Ultimo Husar\". Almost by chance, she was noticed by the director Luis Marquina and cast in the film. This would start a prolific career in acting and directing.\n\nOver the next decade, Mariscal would star in over twenty films, becoming a household name in Spain. A few notable films from this time include \"The Queen's Flower Girl\", \"Raza, A Shadow at the Window,\" and \"The Princess of the Ursines\". After a decade of typecast roles, Mariscal would start her own production company called BOSCO and begin writing and directing her own works. She made her directorial debut with \"Segundo Lopez,\" a film she also wrote and starred in. It was a critically well-received comedy with Italian Neo-realist influences. She would later direct her esteemed work \"They fired with their lives\" that deals with the Spanish Civil War; an event Mariscal herself lived through during her childhood.\n\nIn her later career she would shift between film, television, and theater pursuits, still using her production company to fund her projects. During this period she would direct or be involved with \"Occidente y sabotaje,\" \"El Camino,\" and \"The Other Woman.\" She would soon begin teaching classes at the IIEC (Institute of Investigations and Cinematographic Experiences) while still balancing acting and directing jobs. She would eventually recede from the world of film making and dedicate her time entirely to the study of literature.\n\nJust a few months before her death, She would receive the Gold Medal for Merit in the Fine Arts in 1995. She is buried in the Cementerio de la Almudena\n\n"}
{"id": "58455575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58455575", "title": "Ancient Cypriot art", "text": "Ancient Cypriot art\n\nAncient Cypriot art refers to all works of visual art originating from Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean from c. 10,000 BC to c. 330 AD. During this period, various types of objects were produced such as domestic tools, weaponry, jewellery, and decorative figurines. This range of art attests to the blend of both native and foreign influences of ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome as they successively occupied the country. Artworks produced in ancient Cyprus incorporate almost all of the mediums of visual art worked on in ancient history including terracotta, stone, metals, glass, and gemstones.\n\nIn c. 10,000 BC, seasonal hunters of pygmy hippopotami and elephants were present on the island. The first Neolithic settlers in Cyprus originated from either the Syro-Palestinian coast or southern Anatolia, forming communities founded on agriculture. It was towards the end of the Neolithic period when people began to bake moulded clay into vessels which were frequently embellished with abstract designs in red on a light slip.\n\nDuring this period, a new flood of Syro-Palestinian and Anatolian migrants introduced a more advanced culture where religion was practised and art processes became more complex. Examples of such art are that of female figurines formed from clay or stone—in particular the local stone picrolite—with prominent genitals which represented fertility as one of the crucial values of agrarian society at the time. Towards the end of this period, small implements and ornamental decorations began to be hammered from copper, \"chalkos\" in Greek, hence giving the name of this era of progression from the Neolithic Period to the Bronze Age. Despite the continuation of agriculture, certain developments such as diversified burial procedures, the building of unique religious installations, and the use of seals indicate a more sophisticated and organised society.\n\nProfound changes caused by incoming coastal Asia Minor migrants and other intra-societal processes marked the beginning of the Early Bronze Age. Communities began to move, settling in areas of fertile land near sources of water. Influences from the Near East, where metallurgy was highly developed, established standardised procedures of mining, extracting, and smelting of the rich copper ores found in Cyprus. This resource would become a valued export of high demand throughout Mediterranean antiquity during the Middle Bronze Age. Although Cypriot society was still rooted in agriculture, bronze-smiths began to manufacture unique ornaments and tools following personal techniques towards the end of Early Bronze Age.\n\nThe distinctive geographical location of Cyprus in the centre of Eastern Mediterranean maritime trade allowed for the country to become a significant commercial hub. This advantage also provided the country the ability to build contacts with Egypt, the Near East, Minoan Crete, and Mycenaean Greece. However, despite progressive social organisation, the profound distinctions in wealth as evidenced in burials highlight the explicit social divisions at the time. Such divide and local disputes resulted in the construction of fortifications in many settlements.\n\nThe shapes and designs of pottery produced in the Early and Middle Bronze Ages were innovative and creative. Terracotta was used extensively to produce statuettes for tomb burials. Other burial items, particularly those for men, consisted of bronze weaponry and tools. Cylinder seals and use of gold and silver for jewellery were gradually popularised as well. With the increasing need for more complex ways of expressing religion, ceremonial sites and unique metalworks were constructed. Such constructions give evidence of the growing significance of metals like copper in Cyprus. By the end of the Bronze Age, Near Eastern and Aegean influences allowed for Cyprus to develop the art of engraving and carving to a large extent.\n\nDuring the Late Bronze Age, Cyprus was producing copper on a colossal scale and exporting it throughout the entire Eastern Mediterranean to be bartered for commodities and luxury goods. Various works of alabaster and faience, displayed within The Cesnola Collection, were imported from Egypt during the first half of the 14th century BC. The recent archaeological discovery off the Anatolian coast of ten tonnes of copper in a 14th century BC shipwreck at Ulu Burun show the large scope of Cyprus’ seafaring commerce. Jars holding Cypriot pottery and products of agriculture such as coriander were also found in the excavation.\n\nBy the Late Bronze Age, Cypriot art could be seen as a mixture of both domestic pressures and foreign influences. Adaptations of foreign stylistic elements from the Aegean, the Near East, and Egypt led to their reinterpretation and as a result incorporation into unique Cypriot customs. Particularly during the 12th century BC, bronze-work, writing, jewellery, and stone seal carvings were all influenced by the Aegean. From c. 1500 BC, Cypriots commenced using an undecipherable Cypro-Minoan script adopted from Crete which gave them the means to manage records and inventories at a time when social organisation was becoming increasingly complex. This script can be seen on clay tablets and records found in metropolitan cities such as Enkomi and Kalavasos. The Cesnola Collection also contains numerous vases on which some characters of this ancient script is visible. Upon excavations of rich burial grounds and 14th to 13th century BC urban centres like Enkomi, luxurious artefacts made from a range of materials have been discovered. Burial chambers of an elite class have further unearthed nearly exclusively a collection of imported Mycenaean vessels from the 14th century.\n\nWhile the arts in Cyprus thrived, social inequities arose as a result of the flux of imported wealth and resources. During the latter part of the 13th century BC, unrest took over Cyprus and the Eastern Mediterranean, leaving cities in ruins and generating a surge of Aegean refugees to Cyprus. However, despite the turmoil, Cyprus managed to eventually recover its economic and commercial success.\n\nAfter its recuperation, new settlements arose in Cyprus as a result of the influx of Greek and Achaean immigrants who brought with them their Mycenaean culture in the forms of pottery, clothing, weaponry, burial customs, and the Greek language. The country maintained its role as a main exporter of raw materials in the Mediterranean, and eventually introduced a new local syllabic script in the 11th century BC which was in use until the 3rd century BC for the writing of ancient Greek and Cypriot language. The establishment of a Phoenician settlement at Kition on the southern coast in around 900 BC further pushed Cyprus’ trade as the Phoenicians were interested in the plentiful copper and wood resources for shipbuilding. With this, the Phoenician language was adopted, and foreign ideas such as the cult of the goddess Astarte were assimilated into Cypriot culture. However, despite such imported customs at the time, Cypriot art managed to maintain its native characteristics. Pottery of this period was generally produced from Proto-White Painted Ware, but the Cypriots also painted in black and red. Advancements in the political structure of society could be seen in the founding of ten kingdoms ruled by kings called \"wanaktes\", as evidenced in a 7th century BC inscription. \n\nEvidence revealing the surrender of the Cypriot rulers to Assyria in 709 BC was found on a stele at Kition, and the kingdoms remained under Assyrian rule until 669 BC. Prosperity and cultural incitement in the kingdoms followed, and the kings of Cyprus were able to self-rule as long as they paid frequent tribute to the king of Assyria. The riches and foreign relations of these Cypriot kings can be seen in evidence found in royal burial chambers at Salamis. In 669 BC, Cyprus became independent, a rare circumstance in Cypriot history that lasted until the country was subjugated by Egypt under Amasis II in 560 BC. During this time, the extent of Egyptian control was evident in the increasing use of Egyptian symbols in Cypriot art, such as the head of Hathor which was found commonly on art pieces from Amathus. It could also be seen in the many stone sculptures of male votaries. Cypriot sculpture in the Cypro-Archaic Period was characterised by polychrome decoration which was also used in Greece. Terracotta during this time was often painted, and the development of the mould meant that figurine production could be accelerated to a great extent. In 545 BC, Cyprus was conquered by Cyrus the Great of Persia, but allied with the Ionian Greeks in 499 BC in attempt to rebel against the Persian invaders. Undeterred by the fluctuations in power, Cyprus remained prosperous as a pivotal trade hub, and religious practices did not change with new rule.\nUntil Cyprus was liberated by Alexander the Great in 333 BC, there was a constant power struggle for Cypriot independence against the Persians. During the Cypro-Classical era, sculptures, jewellery, clothing, and other art forms began to take on many Hellenic elements as a result of increased affiliation with the Greeks who aided the Cypriots in their attempts to depose the Persians. Sculptures in this period were generally made from terracotta or limestone and could only be afforded by the affluent. Although the influence of Greek culture was evident in the arts of Cyprus, the Cypriots still kept and used their own artistic styles. One prominent example is that of a Golgoi sarcophagus adorned with warriors in battle which is a scene commonly seen in Greek art. However, the Cypriot artist combines a hunting scene with this landscape, whereby the proportions of the animals are clearly distinctive from those found in Hellenic works. Similarly, Cypriot jewellery, in particular those made from gold, reveal a combination of both local and Greek artistic styles. East Greek influences from the sixth century BC gave rise to freestanding Cypriot sculptures that exhibited common Hellenic features such as the subtle smile and forward left foot.\n\nArt in Cyprus eventually came to assimilate Hellenistic elements as the Ptolemies conquered the country in 300 BC. Although artistic elements of ancient Athens influenced Cypriot burial architecture and other art forms in the beginning, Egyptian styles ultimately superseded. After the Romans seized control in 58 BC, Cyprus once again became a vibrant trading centre. Eastern Mediterranean traders and artists, including sculptors, brought with them a range of foreign artistic practices as they entered the country. As marble and bronze sculptures were increasingly imported from the Aegean, traditional limestone sculptures started to diminish. Hellenistic elements were still prevalent in Cypriot sculpture, ceramics and jewellery during this time. Ultimately, all forms of Cypriot art became influenced by Roman techniques and styles.\n\nOutside Cyprus, there are large collections in several museums, notably the British Museum and Louvre. One of the most extensive collections of ancient Cypriot art is The Cesnola Collection which is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. This inventory was amassed through personal investments and excavations by Luigi Palma di Cesnola who was an American consul based in Cyprus in 1865, before becoming the first director of the Metropolitan.\n\n"}
{"id": "39021067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39021067", "title": "Arab film festivals", "text": "Arab film festivals\n\nA growing number of film festivals are held in the Middle East to showcase films from the region as well as international standouts. In addition, institutions and organizations in other parts of the world are increasingly honoring the new generation of filmmakers in the Middle East with Arab film festivals.\n\nThough burgeoning Arab filmmakers still struggle with constrained funding and a lack of established distribution channels, artists are beginning to produce more and more commercially viable films. Films featured at festivals both in the Middle East and around the world run the gamut from films about war, identity, political or social issues to romantic comedies and thrillers.\n\nGoals of festival organizers are largely to provide an alternative portrayal of Arabs to that in mainstream global media in order to promote understanding and dialogue between the Arab world and the West. In addition, festivals work to support Arab filmmakers in the Middle East and elsewhere by providing a platform for them to screen and promote their cinematic achievements to broad audiences.\n\nThe Cairo International Film Festival is a world-class annual film festival in Cairo, Egypt. Established in 1976, it was the first film festival to be held in the Arab world and is the only international competitive feature film festival in the Middle East and Africa recognized by the FIAPF. The festival has awarded many Egyptian and internationally renowned actors, actresses and directors. Special awards, such as the Best Arab Film Award, are bestowed upon the most exceptional regional films of the year.\n\nIn addition, the Alexandria International Film Festival, Egypt's second largest film festival, is held every September in local theaters. Organized by the Egyptian Association of Film Writers and Critics (EAFWC), the festival promotes film culture and aims to bolster relations among international filmmakers and the Mediterranean in particular.\n\nCelebrating its 10th edition in 2017 is the Cairo International Women's Film Festival. From its earliest edition, Entre Cineastas, to the Caravan of Arab and Latin American Women's Films, CIWFF has developed and expanded over the years. The festival aims at introducing films made by female filmmakers from around the world and serving as a meeting point for them and the audience. Chosen solely by public vote, one film is presented with the Audience Award.\n\nFounded in 2004, the Jordan Short Film Festival is managed by the Amman Filmmakers Cooperative, a film collective based in Amman, Jordan. In addition to a week-long event, the festival organizers promote independent cinema with screenings throughout the year and have launched two main competitions: the International short film competition and the Arab short film competition. Notably, the festival was suspended in 2011 as an act of protest against the killing of peaceful protesters during the Arab Spring. In a statement, the JSFF founder and director noted that \"it would be misleading and dishonest to pretend that Jordan under such circumstances can host film festivals that can openly and freely screen films about human rights and other pressing issues.\"\n\nIn 2009, the Karama Human Rights Film Festival was conceived and organized by Ma3mal 612 (Think Factory), a collective of avante-garde artists and filmmakers. Karama, which means dignity, promotes cinema that explores human rights issues and opens democratic dialogue about human rights between and among local and international audiences.\n\nThe Green Caravan Film Festival, in its 5th year now, is the Middle East's premiere film festival dedicated to the niche market of environmental films. It began in Kuwait in 2009, and from 2010 added Dubai-based screenings to its programming, and plans to add more Gulf cities to its venue locations in the future.\n\nThe Kuwait Young Film Festival, an offshoot of the Kuwait International Film Festival, aims to provide talented youth in Kuwait and elsewhere with an avenue to display their work and compete for awards. Participants must be in school and under 30 years old in order to enter their work. The festival includes film screenings, workshops and social gatherings.\n\nNow in its second year, the Kuwait International Film Retreat is a three-day mini film festival with short and feature film screenings, workshops, social gatherings and an awards ceremony showcasing the best short films in competition.\n\nNow in its sixteenth year, the Beirut International Film Festival is Lebanon's oldest and most prestigious film festival. The annual competition includes categories for feature films, short films and documentaries. Recent years have seen smaller and more intimate editions of the festival due to the uncertain political climate in the country.\n\"Tripoli Film Festival - Lebanon\" has been launched in 2013, it is an international cinematic competition organized yearly during spring, and covering features, shorts, animation and documentaries.\n\nThe International Film Festival of Marrakech, an annual event dedicated to Moroccan and foreign feature and short films, has been held at the end of every year for the past twelve years. His Royal Highness Prince Moulay Rachid presides over the event, which always attracts a bevy of stars. In addition to a grand prize, awards are also given out for best actor, best actress, best short film and jury favorite.\n\nThe Muscat International Film Festival, now in its eighth year, showcases films and filmmakers from more than 90 countries. In addition to film premieres and screenings, seminars, workshops and awards shows round out the event.\n\nThe Doha Tribeca Film Festival was launched in 2009 through a cultural partnership between Doha Film Institute and Tribeca Enterprises, a diversified global media company based in New York City. The annual five-day event - a \"celebration of film, education and community\" - promotes Arab and international film and helps develop a sustainable film industry in Qatar.\n\nMovie theaters have been banned in Saudi Arabia since the 1980s. As such, no film festivals take place within the country. However, a handful of notable Saudi filmmakers exists and in 2012 the first female Saudi filmmaker released the first critically acclaimed feature film filmed entirely in Saudi Arabi, Wadjda, at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nEstablished in 1979, the Damascus International Film Festival is a biannual film festival hosted by the government of Syria. The festival was established by the late Syrian film director Muhammad Shahin and alternates with the Carthage Film Festival in Tunisia. Since 2011, however, the film festival has been cancelled until further notice due to the crisis in Syria.\n\nThe now defunct Abu Dhabi Film Festival was created in 2007 and presented works by Arab filmmakers in competition alongside those by major talents of world cinema. It was presented each October, the festival curated \"exceptional programs to engage and educate the local community, inspire filmmakers and nurture the growth of the regional film industry.\" It was unfortunately brought to a close after eight editions in 2015. \n\nThe Dubai International Film Festival, was held each December since 2004, showcases new and exciting cinema from the Middle East, Asia, Africa and beyond. It is the oldest film festival in the Persian Gulf region and aims to promote better cultural understanding through achievements in film. The DIFF has also pioneered several industry initiatives within its Dubai Film Market, which runs concurrently with the festival and is designed to help support and develop the Arab cinema industry.\nThe 2018 festival was officially cancelled and the management announced that it would return in 2019 with a \"new approach\". \n\nThe Gulf Film Festival took place annually in Dubai. Held in April, the festival presented the best in cinema from the Persian Gulf region. Festival organizers recently announced the formation of the Gulf Film Market, an initiative aimed at developing local and regional film culture through mentoring and social networks. The market will also help create more opportunities for Gulf filmmakers in training, development, production and distribution. The festival was 'postponed' in 2014 and it never returned. \n\nTropfest Arabia, a short film festival, debuted in 2011 in Abu Dhabi. The festival aims to support emerging talent that might otherwise be excluded from the region’s film festivals. Tropfest Arabia is a part of Tropfest, the largest short film festival in the world and what many consider the first truly global festival.\n\nA large and growing number of Arab film festivals take place outside of the Middle East. These festivals play a key role in increasing access to and interest in Arab cinema outside of the Arab world. They are also important for Arab diasporas eager to stay in touch with the cultural scene of their homelands.\n\nEstablished in California in 1996, the Arab Film Festival is the largest independent annual exhibition of Arab films in the United States. It is regarded as one of the most important Arab film festivals outside of the Arab world. The official mission of the festival is to \"enhance public understanding of Arab culture and to provide alternative representations of Arabs that contradict the stereotypical images frequently encountered in the American mass media.\" The festival shows films from and about the Arab world in order to furnish audiences with realistic images of Arab culture, art, history, people and politics.\n\nThe London Middle East & North Africa Film Festival, created in 2011, provides an annual platform for filmmakers to showcase their work and reach audiences who might not otherwise get the opportunity to view cinema from the region, stimulating cross-cultural dialogue, connection and understanding.\n\nAlso in London, the annual London Palestine Film Festival was established in 1998, making it the UK's longest-running festival specialising in film from and upon any region of the Arab world. Providing a platform for international as well as Palestinian film, the festival takes place in Spring and is managed by UK-based non-profit the Palestine Film Foundation. It combines screenings, artists' talks, and panel discussions, with art exhibitions, conferences, and book launches.\n\nThe Middle Eastern Film Festival NYC, produced by Media Space NYC, aims to entertain and enlighten moviegoers with both short and feature-length films about topics related to the Middle East. It is an offshoot and new medium incarnation of the very successful Noor Play Festival.\n\nThe Sofia Middle East & North Africa Region Film Festival is an annual Arab/Islamic event in the Balkans, presenting films from the Middle East and North Africa to a Bulgarian audience. Since its inception in 2009, the festival has screened more than 120 titles.\n\nMalmö Arab Film Festival (MAFF), founded in 2011 has rapidly grown to be one of the major yearly manifestations of Arab film outside the Arab World. The founder, Mouhamad Keblawi, is also managing director. Thirteen prices are awarded yearly.\n\nIn addition, a number of Arab film festivals abroad focus specifically on the issue of Palestine. Events such as the Boston Palestine Film Festival, Toronto Palestine Film Festival, Houston Palestine Film Festival and Chicago Palestine Film Festival bring Palestinian and Palestine-related cinema, narratives and culture to a dispersed audience.\n\n1.1 LatinArab International Film Festival\n\nThe Latin Arab International Film Festival has been held yearly for the last seven years in the City of Buenos Aires. The only festival of its kind in the American continent, it has grown into a platform where to meet and promote Arab cinema and where to build a bridge and bring together the Latin American and Arab cultures, as they have so much in common. The festival's venues are public theatres Cine.Ar and el cultural San Martín and the Alliance Francaise. \nAt the same time, LatinArab's industry Forum (The Latin Arab Co-Production Forum), held within the frame of the Mar del Plata International Film Festival, aims at potentiating both regions' film industries with the conception of films carried out as co-productions. \n\nArab film festivals sometimes serve as forums for political and cultural statements. In 2003, for instance, Egyptian filmmaker Khaled Hagar presented his controversial \"Girls' Love\", the story of a love affair between an Egyptian man and a Jewish woman.\n\nMore recently, films screened and/or competing at the festivals have reflected the Arab Spring. The 2012 Dubai International Film Festival showcased Hinde Boujemaa’s \"It was Better Tomorrow\", in which a homeless woman and her son live hand to mouth, squatting in apartments left empty by fleeing multinationals. Another documentary, \"True Story of Love, Life Death and Sometimes Revolution\" by Nidal Hassan, gathers the views and testimonies of Syrian women during the Syrian revolution.\n"}
{"id": "584224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584224", "title": "Arthur Schopenhauer's aesthetics", "text": "Arthur Schopenhauer's aesthetics\n\nArthur Schopenhauer's aesthetics result from his doctrine of the primacy of the Will as the \"thing in itself\", the ground of life and all being; and from his judgment that individuation of the Will is evil. Schopenhauer held that art offers a way for people to temporarily escape the suffering that results from willing. Basing his doctrine on the dual aspect of the world as will and the world as representation, he taught that if consciousness or attention is fully engrossed, absorbed, or occupied with the world as painless representations or images, then there is no consciousness of the world as painful willing. Aesthetic pleasure results from being a spectator of \"the world as representation\" [mental image or idea] without any experience of \"the world as will\" [need, craving, urge]. Art, according to Schopenhauer, also provides essential knowledge of the world’s objects in a way that is more profound than science or everyday experience.\n\nFor Schopenhauer, the Will is an aimless desire to perpetuate itself, the basis of life. Desire engendered by the Will is the source of all the sorrow in the world; each satisfied desire leaves us either with boredom, or with some new desire to take its place. A world in thrall to Will is necessarily a world of suffering. Since the Will is the source of life, and our very bodies are stamped with its image and designed to serve its purpose, the human intellect is, in Schopenhauer's simile, like a lame man who can see, but who rides on the shoulders of a blind giant.\n\nSchopenhauer's aesthetics is an attempt to break out of the pessimism that naturally comes from this world view. Schopenhauer believed that what distinguished \"aesthetic experiences\" from other experiences is that contemplation of the object of aesthetic appreciation temporarily allowed the subject a respite from the strife of desire, and allowed the subject to enter a realm of purely mental enjoyment, the world purely as representation or mental image. The more a person's mind is concerned with the world as representation, the less it feels the suffering of the world as will. Schopenhauer analysed art from its effects, both on the personality of the artist, and the personality of the viewer.\n\nSchopenhauer believed that while all people were in thrall to the Will, the quality and intensity of their subjection differed:\n\nThe aesthetic experience temporarily emancipates the subject from the Will's domination and raises them to a level of pure perception. \"On the occurrence of an aesthetic appreciation, the will thereby vanishes entirely from consciousness.\" Genuine art cannot be created by anyone who merely follows standard artistic rules. A genius is required, that is, a person who creates original art without concern for rules. The personality of the artist was also supposed to be less subject to Will than most: such a person was a Schopenhauerian genius, a person whose exceptional predominance of intellect over Will made them relatively aloof from earthly cares and concerns. The poet living in a garret, the absent-minded professor, Vincent van Gogh struggling with madness, are all (at least in the popular mind) examples of Schopenhauer's geniuses: so fixed on their art that they neglect the \"business of life\" that in Schopenhauer's mind meant only the domination of the evil and painful Will. For Schopenhauer, the relative lack of competence of the artist and the thinker for practical pursuits was no mere stereotype: it was cause and effect.\n\nSchopenhauer believed that what gives arts such as literature and sculpture their value was the extent to which they incorporated pure perceptions. But, being concerned with human forms (at least in Schopenhauer's day) and human emotions, these art forms were inferior to music, which being a direct manifestation of will, was to Schopenhauer's mind the highest form of art. Schopenhauer's philosophy of music was influential in the works of Richard Wagner. Wagner was an enthusiastic reader of Schopenhauer, and recommended the reading of Schopenhauer to his friends. His published works on music theory changed over time, and became more aligned with Schopenhauer's thought, over the course of his life. Schopenhauer had stated that music was more important than libretto in opera. Music is, according to Schopenhauer, an immediate expression of will, the basic reality of the experienced world. Libretto is merely a linguistic representation of transient phenomena. Wagner emphasized music over libretto in his later works after reading Schopenhauer's aesthetic doctrine.\n\nIn proposing that art could offer deliverance from the Will, Schopenhauer elevated art from mere artisanry or decoration, and held that art potentially offered temporary deliverance from the aimless strife of the Will in nature. In effect, Schopenhauer turned art into a substitute religion by offering a doctrine of salvation through aesthetic experiences. Artists were not merely skilled hands; they were priests or prophets of this doctrine. This teaching goes far to explain Schopenhauer's appeal to members of the creative communities over the second half of the nineteenth century. His doctrine of aesthetics justified artistic work as a matter of highest importance in human society.\n\nSchopenhauer's aesthetics remain influential today, and are perhaps the most lasting part of his philosophy. Their appeal to later generations of Romantics, and to all schools of bohemianism, is demonstrated. Wagner sent Schopenhauer a note expressing deep gratitude for Schopenhauer's discussion of music. Schopenhauer's philosophy in general left a deep impression on a number of important writers, especially Thomas Hardy, Marcel Proust, Stéphane Mallarmé, Thomas Mann, and Ivan Turgenev.\n\nSchopenhauer's aesthetics were directly responsible for the rise of the Symbolists and their allied movements, and to the general development of the concept of art for art's sake. It deeply influenced the aesthetics of Friedrich Nietzsche, although he ultimately rejected Schopenhauer's conception of Will as evil, whose famous opposition of the Apollonian and Dionysian is a translation of Schopenhauer's opposition of intellect against will in terms of Greek mythology. When the Marxist critique of capitalism was stirred into the aesthetic stew, Schopenhauer's essentially ascetic view of the purpose of art laid the foundation for the opposition of kitsch versus the avant-garde which is found in such critics as Clement Greenberg. Contemporary beliefs that artistic creation should not be swayed by financial gains or the demands of patrons or customers, and the belief that the greatest artists are those who create new and entirely unprecedented forms of expression, rather than those who develop already existing forms, all owe a great deal to the influence of Schopenhauer.\n\nSantayana praised Schopenhauer's doctrine that tragedy benefited audiences because it helped them to deny the will–to–live and to turn away from life. \"He [Schopenhauer] thought tragedy beautiful because it detached us from a\ntroubled world and did not think a troubled world\ngood, as those unspeakable optimists did, because it\nmade such a fine tragedy. It is pleasant to find\nthat among all these philosophers one at least was\na gentleman.\"\n\n\"…things are certainly beautiful to \"behold\", but to \"be\" them is something quite different.\" (\"The World as Will and Representation\", Vol. II, Ch. XLVI)\n\n\"…aesthetic pleasure in the beautiful consists, to a large extent, in the fact that, when we enter the state of pure contemplation, we are raised for the moment above all willing, above all desires and cares; we are, so to speak, rid of ourselves.\" (\"The World as Will and Representation\", Vol. I, § 68)\n\n\"Perhaps the reason why common objects in \"still life\" seem so transfigured and generally everything \"painted\" appears in a supernatural light is that we then no longer look at things in the flux of time and in the connection of cause and effect …. On the contrary, we are snatched out of that eternal flux of all things and removed into a dead and silent eternity. In its individuality the thing itself was determined by time and by the [causal] conditions of the understanding; here we see this connection abolished and only the \"Platonic Idea\" is left.\" (\"Manuscript Remains\", Vol. I, § 80)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10255477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10255477", "title": "Assumption of the Virgin (Titian)", "text": "Assumption of the Virgin (Titian)\n\nThe Assumption of the Virgin or Frari Assumption is a large altarpiece panel painting in oils by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, painted in 1515–18. It remains in the position it was designed for, on the high altar of the Basilica di Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari or Frari church in Venice. It is the largest altarpiece in the city, with the figures well over life-size, necessitated by the large church, with a considerable distance between the altar and the congregation.\n\nIt marked a new direction in Titian's style, that reflected his awareness of the developments in High Renaissance painting further south, in Florence and Rome, by artists including Raphael and Michelangelo. The agitated figures of the Apostles marked a break with the usual meditative stillness of saints in Venetian painting, in the tradition of Giovanni Bellini and others.\n\nIt was perhaps originally rather shocking for the Venetian public, but soon recognised as a masterpiece that confirmed Titian's position as the leading artist in Venice, and one of the most important in all Italy, a rival to Michelangelo and Raphael.\n\nThe Assumption of Mary was a Catholic doctrine that remained optional in the early 16th century; it was not declared an article of faith until 1950. The Franciscan order whose church the Frari is, were always keen promoters of this and other aspects of Marian theology, in particular the related doctrine of the Immaculate Conception of Mary, then still a matter of live controversy. The doctrine held that the body of the Virgin Mary was \"assumed\" or moved physically into heaven \"at the end of her earthly life\". Most Catholics believed that this took place after a normal death (usually three days after in tradition), but some that Mary was still alive when it happened, a question that Munificentissimus Deus in 1950 was careful not to settle. At the base of the picture, glimpses of Mary's stone sarcophagus can be discreetly seen, allowing those believing in an assumption before death to ignore it or regard it as something else.\n\nThe broad composition of Titian's painting, with a group of apostles below a rising Mary, shown as alive, who moves towards a group of angels in heaven, follows earlier depictions in art, though such an imagined scene did not form part of the doctrine. The related scene of the Coronation of the Virgin in heaven had tended to be replaced by scenes showing the moment of the actual assumption, as here, which was often combined with it. Here the angel accompanying God the Father on the right holds out a crown, which he is about to place on her head.\n\nThe figures are in three zones, divided by spaces filled only with light. On the ground are the Apostles, tightly packed in a group and in a variety of dramatic poses, most looking up at the unprecedented sight of the Virgin Mary rising to heaven. They are shown in a variety of poses, ranging from gazing in awe, to kneeling and reaching for the skies, \"monumental figures ... massed in collective movement, united with shadow, heroic gestures are given a silhouette of unprecedented boldness\".\n\nIn the centre zone, the Virgin Mary stands on clouds, wrapped in a red robe and blue mantle, and also makes a gesture of astonishment. Around her \"throngs of angels are melted into clouds irradiated by heavenly light\". Above is God the Father, who is about to be handed a crown for Mary by the angel to the right (see above).\n\nTitian broke with tradition by omitting all landscape elements, although the blue-grey sky above the apostles shows the scene is set outdoors. The sky contrasts with the golden heavenly light in the upper zones, which recalls the gold ground traditional in mosaics such as those still being made in San Marco, and the gold ground paintings of the Gothic period.\n\nAltogether there are twelve apostles, some only visible by a small area of their face. Saint Peter sits at the centre with his hands together in prayer, and Saint John the Evangelist is the younger man in red to the left of him; the others are probably not intended to be identifiable. The painting is signed \"TITIANUS\" on the sarcophagus below St Peter.\n\nThe Frari is a very large Gothic church of the early 15th-century, initially plainly built of brick, like many Franciscan churches designed for preaching to large crowds, but now filled with elaborate tombs and paintings. Titian himself is buried there, though this is an unintended result of the chaos of the plague that killed him, with a large 19th-century monument that includes a relief version of the \"Assumption\".\nThe high altar is a very long way from the nave, and the view of it is restricted by an elaborate stone choir-screen of 1475, with a round-headed arch in the centre, and a pulpit at each end. Immediately behind this, across about half the width of the church, is the choir, with rows of choir-stalls facing each other, and a high wooden backing. After this comes a wide but shallow area, reaching into the transepts, before the chancel in the apse, which is very deep. The rounded top of the painting allows it to be framed neatly by the choir-screen arch for a viewer standing at the central axis of the church even at the back of the nave, though from there it appears tiny. It also allows the rounded circle of heavenly light to complete the top of the composition, with no awkward corners to fill.\n\nThe high altar and its elaborate reredos framing the altarpiece was probably designed in its broad conception by Titian, to match his painting. The detailed design and execution was probably by Lorenzo Bregno. The painting is framed by an extension of the altar in marble and gilding, which matches not only the round top of the choir-screen arch, but (in broad terms) the scrolling decoration around it. The classical style, with large columns on either side, inevitably clashes somewhat with the Gothic style of the architecture, but efforts have been made to minimize this by aligning the levels of elements of both frame and painting with the zones of the architecture. For example, the top of the cornice of the frame is (depending on the viewing position) broadly the same as the level of the bottom of the third tier of windows.\n\nThe \"Assumption of the Virgin\" was Titian's first major commission for a church in Venice, and brought his art great public attention. Although he was at work on a huge commission for the Doge's Palace, which he took until the 1530s to complete, most of his previous works were out of public view in palaces. He painted it \"in situ\" in the church (perhaps not actually in the final location), and according to Carlo Ridolfi (1594–1658), had to deal with frequent questions from the friars over the size of the figures, which he explained by saying they were necessary for the painting to register from distance. Although many painters had by this time moved to paint on canvas, Titian continued to paint his largest works on wood panels until about 1550, even while using canvas for smaller works. This was painted on a series of 21 wide cedar planks, 3 cm thick, placed horizontally, which can be easily detected when viewing the front of the painting.\n\nUnusually, the public unveiling on 19 May 1518 (a public holiday, chosen to allow a big attendance) was noted by the diarist Marino Sanuto the Younger, though with little detail. The story recorded over a century later by Ridolfi, that the emperor Charles V's ambassador was present at the unveiling ceremony and asked the Franciscans, who were doubtful about the painting's quality, to buy it, so persuading them that it was worth keeping, does not seem to be true as the ambassador was not in Venice at the time.\n\nNevertheless, there does seem to have been initial hesitation among viewers, if Lodovico Dolce (1508/10–1568), writing some decades later, is to be believed, though his account is rather cast into doubt by his placing the painting several years earlier than it was actually painted. He wrote that \"the oafish painters and the foolish masses, who until then had seen nothing but the dead and cold works of Giovanni Bellini, of Gentili, and of Vivarino ... which were without movement or modelling, grossly defamed that picture. Then, as envy cooled and the truth slowly dawned on them, people began to marvel at the new style established in Venice by Titian.\"\nThe placement of the painting over an altar attracted candle grease, and even by the time that Vasari saw it some decades later it was dark and hard to see. Sir Joshua Reynolds in 1752 described it as \"most terribly dark but nobly painted\", despite two new windows having been added at the side in 1650 to give the painting more light.\n\nIn 1817, it was moved to the Accademia, returning to its original place at the Frari in 1919. The ceiling of the gallery had to be raised to accommodate it, and at the opening ceremony in 1822, Canova described it as the greatest painting in the world. Viewing the painting while housed in the Accademia, the young Oscar Wilde remarked that \"The Assumption\" was \"certainly the best picture in Italy.\"\n\nAccording to Nicholas Penny, this \"must surely have been the painting by Titian that most influenced\" Tintoretto, who may have worked briefly in Titian's studio some years later.\n\nThe painting is now cleaned and helped by artificial lighting, but (as Titian planned for) can only be seen by the public from an unusually distant point, as the apse is roped off.\n\nThe painting is frequently compared to the \"Transfiguration\" by Raphael (now Vatican Pinacoteca), whose period of execution overlapped with Titian's, beginning slightly later, probably in 1517, and soon ending after the artist's death in 1520. The compositions have obvious similarities, with an isolated main figure in the air, and below, a crowd of agitated followers who are not fully lit.\n\nJohn Steer notes that \"Both paintings are, of course, in the grand manner: heroic in scale and conception. A vocabulary of forceful movements and large gestures conveys the sense of morally exalted persons engaged in great events. ... Form and content are one, and both works have that internal balance and organic unity of parts which makes the High Renaissance a normative period in the history of European art.\"\n\nDifferences between them show in their treatment of form: \"Each of Raphael's figures is thought of as a separate unit, and brought together they are like group sculpture. Even when only a small part of the body is showing ... the rest of the body is implied, because Raphael's space is so clearly constructed that it creates a vacuum which the figure must be conceived as filling.\" In contrast, \"In the \"Assumption\", the group of Apostles, silhouetted against the sky, is created, by strong cross illumination, from patches of light and shade. So strong is this pattern that when our attention is not deliberately concentrated, the forms are partly lost in it, and it is only by conscious effort that we attach the gesticulating limbs to individual bodies.\"\n\nFor Raphael \"form is primary, and colour, light and shadow are only additional elements, added to it. For Titian, on the other hand, light and shade are the revealers of form, and colour the substance from which it is made.\"\n\nS.J. Freedburg describes the painting as \"the first challenge that was adequate to the whole range of artistic resource Titian had by now acquired\", and a return to the \"passion and force of statement\" of Titian's earliest period, \"before his partial subjugation to Giorgione\". Compared to Raphael's \"Transfiguration\", which \"points a way that leads beyond the sphere of classical style, towards the still greater intellectual abstraction and complexity of Mannerism\", Titian \"points to the possibility of baroque; but it is Titian's option to realize it, and he does not.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23092528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23092528", "title": "Ayo Joy", "text": "Ayo Joy\n\nAyo Joy is a 2009 documentary film produced by the French company MK2 and directed by Raphaël Duroy about the singer Ayọ. The 90 minute film, which comes into the cinemas end of 2009 or early 2010, shows her life and the search for her roots during the preparations and execution of her first concert in Nigeria, the birth country of her father.\n\n"}
{"id": "49320203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49320203", "title": "Aïcha Fofana", "text": "Aïcha Fofana\n\nAïcha Aminata Laïla Fofana (1957 – 10 August 2003) was a Malian translator and author. With \"Mariage: on copie\" (1994), she became the first woman in Mali to publish a novel. A women's rights activist, her writings are aimed at improving the social conditions for women in Mali.\n\nBorn in Bamako, Mali, in 1957, Aïcha Fofana was the daughter of Bénitiéni Fofana (1928–1991), who served as Mali's Minister of Health. After her primary school education in Bamako and in Bordeaux, France, she attended the Lycée Notre-Dame in Niger. She went on to study languages, first at the Sorbonne, then at the University of Mannheim, Germany, and at Oxford. With her command of French, German and English, she subsequently worked as a translator and interpreter.\n\nHer first novel \"Mariage: on copie\" probes the conventional views of Malian women, telling the story of four of them who experience different problems owing to their varied ethnic backgrounds and status. By describing how the women resolve their marital problems, the novel sets out to show that Malian society is moving in the right direction. Her second novel \"La fourmilière\" (The Anthill) was published posthumously in 2006. It brings out the difficulties of Malian society as represented by the life of a large family. Her title is inspired by social structures which can be compared to those of a colony of ants.\n\nFrustrated by the time taken to have books published, Fofana decided to turn to the theatre where she could rely on communicating her ideas much more quickly. In April 1997, her first play \"Excellence on fait le ménage\" was presented at Bamako's Cultural Centre. As it was critical of political corruption, it caused quite a stir, both among the actors and those who came to see it. Her second play, \"L'Africaine de Paris no 2\", presented the following year, tells the story of a Malian who marries a local woman only to discover that his first wife, also an African whom he married in Paris, comes to claim him as her husband, upsetting the family environment.\n\nFofana is also remembered as a courageous advocate of women's rights. In 1998, she was a founding member of the Malian Association of Human Rights. Her writings are often centred on improving social conditions for African women.\n\nAïcha Fofana died unexpectedly in Bamako on 16 August 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "235534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235534", "title": "Boredom", "text": "Boredom\n\nIn conventional usage, boredom is an emotional and occasionally psychological state experienced when an individual is left without anything in particular to do, is not interested in his or her surroundings, or feels that a day or period is dull or tedious. It is also understood by scholars as a modern phenomenon which has a cultural dimension. \"There is no universally accepted definition of boredom. But whatever it is, researchers argue, it is not simply another name for depression or apathy. It seems to be a specific mental state that people find unpleasant—a lack of stimulation that leaves them craving relief, with a host of behavioural, medical and social consequences.\" According to BBC News, boredom \"...can be a dangerous and disruptive state of mind that damages your health\"; yet research \"...suggest[s] that without boredom we couldn't achieve our creative feats.\" \n\nIn \"Experience Without Qualities: Boredom and Modernity\", Elizabeth Goodstein traces the modern discourse on boredom through literary, philosophical, and sociological texts to find that as \"a discursively articulated phenomenon...boredom is at once objective and subjective, emotion and intellectualization — not just a response to the modern world but also a historically constituted strategy for coping with its discontents.\" In both conceptions, boredom has to do fundamentally with an experience of time and problems of meaning.\n\nThe expression \"to be a bore\" had been used in print in the sense of \"to be tiresome or dull\" since 1768 at the latest. The expression \"boredom\" means \"state of being bored,\" 1852, from bore (v.1) + -dom. It also has been employed in a sense \"bores as a class\" (1883) and \"practice of being a bore\" (1864, a sense properly belonging to boreism, 1833). The word \"bore\" as a noun meaning a \"thing which causes ennui or annoyance\" is attested to since 1778; \"of persons by 1812\". The noun \"bore\" comes from the verb \"bore\", which had the meaning \"[to] be tiresome or dull\" first attested [in] 1768, a vogue word c. 1780-81 according to Grose (1785); possibly a figurative extension of \"to move forward slowly and persistently, as a [hole-] boring tool does.\"\n\nThe French term for boredom, ennui, is sometimes used in English as well, at least since 1778. The term \"ennui\" was first used \"as a French word in English;\" in the 1660s and it was \"nativized by 1758\". The term \"ennui\" comes \"from French ennui, from Old French enui \"annoyance\" (13c.), [a] back-formation from enoiier, anuier. \"The German word for \"boredom\" expresses this: \"Langeweile\", a compound made of \"lange\" \"long\" and \"Weile\" \"while\", which is in line with the common perception that when one is bored, time passes \"tortuously\" slowly.\n\nDifferent scholars use different definitions of \"boredom\", which complicates research. Boredom has been defined by Cynthia D. Fisher in terms of its main central psychological processes: \"an unpleasant, transient affective state in which the individual feels a pervasive lack of interest and difficulty concentrating on the current activity.\" Mark Leary et al. describe boredom as \"an affective experience associated with cognitive attentional processes.\" In positive psychology, boredom is described as a response to a moderate challenge for which the subject has more than enough skill.\n\nThere are three types of boredom, all of which involve problems of engagement of attention. These include times when we are prevented from engaging in wanted activity, when we are forced to engage in unwanted activity, or when we are simply unable for no apparent reason to maintain engagement in any activity or spectacle. Boredom proneness is a tendency to experience boredom of all types. This is typically assessed by the Boredom Proneness Scale. Recent research has found that boredom proneness is clearly and consistently associated with failures of attention. Boredom and its proneness are both theoretically and empirically linked to depression and similar symptoms. Nonetheless, boredom proneness has been found to be as strongly correlated with attentional lapses as with depression. Although boredom is often viewed as a trivial and mild irritant, proneness to boredom has been linked to a very diverse range of possible psychological, physical, educational, and social problems.\n\nAbsent-mindedness is where a person shows inattentive or forgetful behaviour. Absent-mindedness is a mental condition in which the subject experiences low levels of attention and frequent distraction. Absent-mindedness is not a diagnosed condition but rather a symptom of boredom and sleepiness which people experience in their daily lives. When suffering from absent-mindedness, people tend to show signs of memory lapse and weak recollection of recently occurring events. This can usually be a result of a variety of other conditions often diagnosed by clinicians such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and depression. In addition to absent-mindedness leading to an array of consequences affecting daily life, it can have as more severe, long-term problems.\n\nLethargy is a state of tiredness, weariness, fatigue, or lack of energy. It can be accompanied by depression, decreased motivation, or apathy. Lethargy can be a normal response to boredom, inadequate sleep, overexertion, overworking, stress, lack of exercise, or a symptom of a disorder. When part of a normal response, lethargy often resolves with rest, adequate sleep, decreased stress, and good nutrition.\n\nBoredom is a condition characterized by perception of one's environment as dull, tedious, and lacking in stimulation. This can result from leisure and a lack of aesthetic interests. Labor and art may be alienated and passive, or immersed in tedium. There is an inherent anxiety in boredom; people will expend considerable effort to prevent or remedy it, yet in many circumstances, it is accepted as suffering to be endured. Common passive ways to escape boredom are to sleep or to think creative thoughts (daydream). Typical active solutions consist in an intentional activity of some sort, often something new, as familiarity and repetition lead to the tedious.\nDuring the fin de siècle, the French term for the end of the 19th century in the West, some of the cultural hallmarks included \"ennui\", cynicism, pessimism, and \"...a widespread belief that civilization leads to decadence.\"\n\nBoredom also plays a role in existentialist thought. Søren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche were two of the first philosophers considered fundamental to the existentialist movement. Like Pascal, they were interested in people's quiet struggle with the apparent meaninglessness of life and the use of diversion to escape from boredom. Kierkegaard's \"Either/Or\" describes the rotation method, a method used by higher level aesthetes in order to avoid boredom. The method is an essential hedonistic aspect of the aesthetic way of life. For the aesthete, one constantly changes what one is doing in order to maximize the enjoyment and pleasure derived from each activity.\n\nIn contexts where one is confined, spatially or otherwise, boredom may be met with various religious activities, not because religion would want to associate itself with tedium, but rather, partly because boredom may be taken as the essential human condition, to which God, wisdom, or morality are the ultimate answers. It is taken in this sense by virtually all existentialist philosophers as well as by Arthur Schopenhauer.\n\nMartin Heidegger wrote about boredom in two texts available in English, in the 1929/30 semester lecture course \"The Fundamental Concepts of Metaphysics\", and again in the essay \"What is Metaphysics?\" published in the same year. In the lecture, Heidegger included about 100 pages on boredom, probably the most extensive philosophical treatment ever of the subject. He focused on waiting at railway stations in particular as a major context of boredom. Søren Kierkegaard remarks in \"Either/Or\" that \"patience cannot be depicted\" visually, since there is a sense that any immediate moment of life may be fundamentally tedious.\n\nBlaise Pascal in the \"Pensées\" discusses the human condition in saying \"we seek rest in a struggle against some obstacles. And when we have overcome these, rest proves unbearable because of the boredom it produces\", and later states that \"only an infinite and immutable object – that is, God himself – can fill this infinite abyss.\"\n\nWithout stimulus or focus, the individual is confronted with nothingness, the meaninglessness of existence, and experiences existential anxiety. Heidegger states this idea as follows: \"Profound boredom, drifting here and there in the abysses of our existence like a muffling fog, removes all things and men and oneself along with it into a remarkable indifference. This boredom reveals being as a whole.\" Schopenhauer used the existence of boredom in an attempt to prove the vanity of human existence, stating, \"...for if life, in the desire for which our essence and existence consists, possessed in itself a positive value and real content, there would be no such thing as boredom: mere existence would fulfil and satisfy us.\"\n\nErich Fromm and other thinkers of critical theory speak of boredom as a common psychological response to industrial society, where people are required to engage in alienated labor. According to Fromm, boredom is \"perhaps the most important source of aggression and destructiveness today.\" For Fromm, the search for thrills and novelty that characterizes consumer culture are not solutions to boredom, but mere distractions from boredom which, he argues, continues unconsciously. Above and beyond taste and character, the universal case of boredom consists in any instance of \"waiting\", as Heidegger noted, such as in line, for someone else to arrive or finish a task, or while one is travelling somewhere. The automobile requires fast reflexes, making its operator busy and hence, perhaps for other reasons as well, making the ride more tedious despite being over sooner. \n\nInterestingly, in some Nguni languages such as Zulu, boredom and loneliness are represented by the same word (isizungu). This adds a new dimension to the oft-quoted definition of ubuntu: \"A person is a person through other people\".\n\nAlthough it has not been widely studied, research on boredom suggests that boredom is a major factor impacting diverse areas of a person's life. People ranked low on a boredom-proneness scale were found to have better performance in a wide variety of aspects of their lives, including career, education, and autonomy. Boredom can be a symptom of clinical depression. Boredom can be a form of learned helplessness, a phenomenon closely related to depression. Some philosophies of parenting propose that if children are raised in an environment devoid of stimuli, and are not allowed or encouraged to interact with their environment, they will fail to develop the mental capacities to do so.\n\nIn a learning environment, a common cause of boredom is lack of understanding; for instance, if one is not following or connecting to the material in a class or lecture, it will usually seem boring. However, the opposite can also be true; something that is too easily understood, simple or transparent, can also be boring. Boredom is often inversely related to learning, and in school it may be a sign that a student is not challenged enough, or too challenged. An activity that is predictable to the students is likely to bore them.\n\nA 1989 study indicated that an individual's impression of boredom may be influenced by the individual's degree of attention, as a higher acoustic level of distraction from the environment correlated with higher reportings of boredom. Boredom has been studied as being related to drug abuse among teens. Boredom has been proposed as a cause of pathological gambling behavior. A study found results consistent with the hypothesis that pathological gamblers seek stimulation to avoid states of boredom and depression. It has been suggested that boredom has an evolutionary basis that encourages humans to seek out new challenges. It may influence human learning and ingenuity.\n\nSome recent studies have suggested that boredom may have some positive effects. A low-stimulus environment may lead to increased creativity and may set the stage for a \"eureka moment\".\n\nBoreout is a management theory that posits that lack of work, boredom, and consequent lack of satisfaction are a common malaise affecting individuals working in modern organizations, especially in office-based white collar jobs. This theory was first expounded in 2007 in \"Diagnose Boreout\", a book by Peter Werder and Philippe Rothlin, two Swiss business consultants. They claim the absence of meaningful tasks, rather than the presence of stress, is many workers' chief problem.\n\nA \"banishment room\" (also known as a \"chasing-out-room\" and a \"boredom room\") is a modern employee exit management strategy whereby employees are transferred to a department where they are assigned meaningless work until they become disheartened enough to quit. Since the resignation is voluntary, the employee would not be eligible for certain benefits. The legality and ethics of the practice is questionable and may be construed as constructive dismissal by the courts in some regions.\n\n\"Meh\" is an interjection used as an expression of indifference or boredom. It may also mean \"be it as it may\". It is often regarded as a verbal shrug of the shoulders. The use of the term \"meh\" shows that the speaker is apathetic, uninterested, or indifferent to the question or subject at hand. It is occasionally used as an adjective, meaning something is mediocre or unremarkable.\n\nThe superfluous man (, \"lishniy chelovek\") is an 1840s and 1850s Russian literary concept derived from the Byronic hero. It refers to an individual, perhaps talented and capable, who does not fit into social norms. In most cases, this person is born into wealth and privilege. Typical characteristics are disregard for social values, cynicism, and existential boredom; typical behaviors are gambling, drinking, smoking, sexual intrigues, and duels. He is often unempathetic and carelessly distresses others with his actions.\nThe bored antihero became prominent in early 20th century existentialist works such as Franz Kafka's \"The Metamorphosis\" (1915), Jean-Paul Sartre's \"La Nausée\" (1938) (), and Albert Camus' \"L'Étranger\" (1942) (). The protagonist in these works is an indecisive central character who drifts through his life and is marked by ennui, angst, and alienation.\n\nGrunge lit is an Australian literary genre of fictional or semi-autobiographical writing in the early 1990s about young adults living in an \"inner cit[y]\" \"...world of disintegrating futures where the only relief from...boredom was through a nihilistic pursuit of sex, violence, drugs and alcohol\". Often the central characters are disfranchised, lacking drive and determination beyond the desire to satisfy their basic needs. It was typically written by \"new, young authors\" who examined \"gritty, dirty, real existences\" of everyday characters. It has been described as both a sub-set of dirty realism and an offshoot of Generation X literature. Stuart Glover states that the term \"grunge lit\" takes the term \"grunge\" from the \"late 80's and early 90's—...Seattle [grunge] bands\". Glover states that the term \"grunge lit\" was mainly a marketing term used by publishing companies; he states that most of the authors who have been categorized as \"grunge lit\" writers reject the label.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1690836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690836", "title": "Confucian art", "text": "Confucian art\n\nConfucian art is art inspired by the writings of Confucius, and Confucian teachings. Confucian art originated in China, then spread westwards on the Silk road, southward down to southern China and then onto Southeast Asia, and eastwards through northern China on to Japan and Korea. While it still maintains a strong influence within Indonesia, Confucian influence on western art has been limited. While Confucian themes enjoyed representation in Chinese art centers, they are fewer in comparison to the number of artworks that are about or influenced by Daoism and Buddhism.\n\nWhen Confucius was elevated to the rank of Supreme Sage and the Uncrown King (\"Su Wang\"), Confucian art became identified with the art of Confucius in recognition to the sage's central position in the transmission of the Chinese ancient culture. Notable elements of this art are calligraphy of Confucian writings and thoughts, often contained within Confucian temples and schools, as well as whiteware ceramics and pottery related to Confucian religious and scholarly practices. In China, Chinese scholar's rocks were part of this tradition. As most importantly the Korean stone art which continues to this day. Themes and subjects usually include the depiction of prominent Confucian figures such as statesmen, poets, and painters, among others. These are the subjects, for instance, of the paintings of Zhang Lu (1464-1538). Artworks also reflected prevailing interests during the Confucian period such as chess, music, and painting in addition to the depiction of the didactic pictorial narratives of the life of Confucius and the twenty-four paragons of filial piety.\n\nConfucian art is demonstrated in the Six Classics: \"The Book of Odes\", which describes the will; the \"Book of Documents\", which describes events; \"The Book of Ritual,\" which focuses on conduct; \"The Book of Music\", which is about harmony; the \"Book of Changes\" for the concept of the yin and yang; and, The Spring and Autumn Annals, which describes titles and functions.\n\nConfucian art may also be distinguished between classical early period, neo-Confucianism, and post-modern Confucian art.\n\nEvery one of Confucius' students had his own character. Some were modest and keen to learn; some were strong and argumentative; some were cowardly and slow to improve. However, Confucius would teach each student according to his nature guiding him along the way so that he/she may become a useful and talented person.\n\nRan Qiu was a very talented person. He really hoped to improve his political abilities and obtain the opportunity to be promoted to become a government official after learning from Confucius.\n\nOfficials in ancient times had to understand poetry, literature, ritual, and music, only when they had a good understanding of this knowledge could they work for the people. In order to improve on these abilities to become a government official, Ran Qiu followed Confucius as his teacher and diligently studied a variety of subjects and skills.\n\nAfter some time, however, Confucius found that Ran Qiu had become idle and lazy and was no longer curious to understand and discuss the principles taught in the class. Therefore, one day after the class, Confucius asked Ran Qiu the reason for this.\n\nRan Qiu said, \"It is not that I don't like the principles that you teach. It is just because I am lacking in ability!\"\n\nIn fact, Ran Qiu thought that the principles that Confucius taught were too high and were different from what he had expected them to be. Ran Qiu had only planned to learn from Confucius the abilities necessary to become a government official. Then, with the help of Confucius' reputation, he would get the chance to start his political career. But when he came to Confucius's school, he found that the principles Confucius taught seemed to be apart from society. Though the ideals were high, it was not easy to follow them in practice.\n\nHolding such thoughts, Ran Qiu started to become lazy and felt it was useless no matter how much more he learned. In addition, Ran Qiu also attributed his poor performance in the class to his own insufficient abilities. He thought that, since he was not capable enough, he would never be able to achieve the level that Confucius was teaching, so why did he need to study carefully?\n\nConfucius however didn't think that Ran Qiu's declining performance was due to a lack of ability. Therefore, he told Ran Qiu, \"Look at those people who don't have enough ability. They usually stop and give up halfway, whereas you draw a boundary in front of yourself to restrict you from moving forward. How can you make progress that way?\"\n\nAfter hearing what Confucius had to say, Ran Qiu was ashamed and lowered his head. Confucius continued, \"Before you fully demonstrate your ability, you should not easily give up the effort to strive forward; you shouldn't feel so desperate about yourself so easily. As long as you try your best to do everything well, you will find that you have good potential!\"\n\nAfter Confucius had encouraged him, Ran Qiu was again full of confidence and resumed his usual earnest learning attitude. It was after this that Ran Qiu took note of Confucius' skills as a teacher!\n\n"}
{"id": "58837186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58837186", "title": "Creative Growth Art Center", "text": "Creative Growth Art Center\n\nCreative Growth Art Center is a nonprofit arts organization that provides studios, supplies, and gallery space to artists with developmental, mental, and physical disabilities.\n\nIn 1974, the husband and wife pair of Florence Ludins-Katz and Elias Katz founded Creative Growith in their garage. Ludins-Katz was an artist and Katz was a psychologist. A product of Bay Area grassroots collectivism and the disability-rights movement of the 1970s, the nonprofit Creative Growth Art Center is currently run by the filmmaker and former curator, Tom di Maria.\n\nEventually, Creative Growth relocated to a former auto-repair shop near downtown Oakland, California where it currently operates.\n\nIn 2010, Matthew Higgs, Director/Chief Curator at White Columns, curated a show titled \"Everyone!\" that featured over 130 works made by Creative Growth artists and included each and every artist currently enrolled in the studio program.\n\nThousands of artists have come through Creative Growth's doors over the years. A number have reach national recognition. Recently, Creative Growth artists have had major exhibitions at the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC (Judith Scott, 2018); Venice Biennale (Dan Miller and Judith Scott, 2017); Brooklyn Museum (Judith Scott, 2015); Museum of Modern Art (Dan Miller, 2008); and White Columns (William Scott, 2009, 2006).\n\nBeyond Trend is Creative Growth's runway extravaganza that started in 2010 as a small in-gallery showing of fashion. The 2018 show, its' largest yet, opened at the 1,250-seat Scottish Rite Center, where it was chaired by Paper magazine co-founder Kim Hastreiter and Target Chief Creative Officer Todd Waterbury.\n\nCreative Growth was featured in the October 1990 issue of Elle Decor in an article tilted \"Aimed Straight From The Heart\" written by Susan Subtle. Subtle reviews the organization highly. She compares the style of art made at creative growth to Outsider, Primitive, Naive, Brut, and early-American folk art. \n\nIn 2015, the organization was featured in a T Magazine article titled \"A Training Ground For Untrained Artists\" written by Nathaniel Rich.\n\nIn 2018, a segment in the ninth season of Art in the Twenty-First Century, Art21 talks to some of the artists and administrators involved with Creative Growth.\n\n"}
{"id": "40599741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40599741", "title": "Delirium (2013 film)", "text": "Delirium (2013 film)\n\nDelirium is a 2013 Ukrainian film produced and directed by Ihor Podolchak, premiered in Director’s Week Competition in Fantasporto (Portugal, 2013), awarded with the \"First Prize\" at Baghdad International Film Festival (2013).\n\n\"Delirium\" is the second Podolchak feature film. The screenplay is based on the novel \"Inductor\" by Ukrainian writer Dmytro Belyansky.\n\nA family asks a young psychiatrist to be their guest for a while and help look after their father who’s developed a suicidal fixation for ropes and knots among other things. It is also entirely possible that the mental health of the guest that is the real cause for concern.\n\n\nWork on the script had begun in the spring of 2008 and was completed on the eve of filming. The director's development and preparatory period were financially supported by the Hubert Balls Foundation (The Netherlands). In search of locations for filming, the film group carried out a long expedition on the Carpathians and Transcarpathians of Ukraine. The first stage of filming took place from August 1 to September 15, 2008, in the suburbs of Lviv - Briukhovychi and Horodok, the second stage was held in Kyiv in late 2009 - early 2010. In total. The shooting was conducted on a digital Red One camera. Almost the whole film, with the exception of the first and last scene, was shot with the help of the Tilt- Shift lenses, which made it possible to create a specific image with uneven focus distribution along the frame, plane and various geometric distortions of the frame content. In the scene, which was filmed in Gorodok church, an Oscar-winning \"Garmoshka\" crane and a gyrostabilized panoramic head \"Flight Head\" of the renowned Ukrainian company \"Filmotechnik\" were used.\n\nEditing, color correction, and sound design were made on Apple hardware and Apple software: Final Cut Studio, and Logic Pro. Visual effects were made in Adobe After Effects. The sounds from the set were not used. The voices of three male characters - the Father, the Guest, the Son - was performed by the Kiev actor Vitaly Linetsky. The sound design of the film was performed by well-known Ukrainian musician and TV showman - Miroslav Kuvaldin. The final edition of the sound was made by Igor Podolchak and Igor Durych in 2011.\n\nThe score was written and performed by Alexander Schetinsky. Initially, the director and composer planned to use the traditional musical genre Dies irae, which is part of the Catholic Mass. Were written six completed instrumental parts, named according to the sections of the Latin mass: Dies irae, Quantus tremor, Mors stupebit, Ingemisco, Tuba mirum, Lacrimosa.\n\nThe composer limited himself to the means of the symphony orchestra and did not use any text or vocals. The music does not contain direct illustrations, and, in particular, thanks to avant-garde style techniques, paradoxically combined with names, appealing to the surrealism principles, which fully corresponded to the aesthetics of the film. However, during the work the authors decided to use only two musical parts - Mors stupebit at the beginning of the film (initial titles) and Dies irae on the final credits.\n\nDuring the unfolding of the film, music does not sound at all. Thanks to this, the initial and final musical fragments acquired additional dramatic significance: an introduction to the \"problematic\" of the film (the effect of tuning on the corresponding aesthetic \"wave\") and a semantic generalization.\n\nLike in his first film \"Las Meninas\", \"Deliriu\" appeals to the intricate family sagas, which appear in the novels by Witold Gombrowicz, Milorad Pavic, and Bruno Schulz.\nUnlike the sagas Luchino Visconti (\"The Damned (1969 film)) or Ingmar Bergman (\"Fanny and Alexander\"), Podol'chak avoids narrative but everything happens outside the space-time continuum with a focus on psychological states. His characters are arbitrary, which is emphasized by archetypal names: Father, Mother, Daughter.\n\nDeveloping the themes set in his first film \"Las Meninas\", Podolchak in \"Delirium\" somewhat modifies the \"family\" structure - introduces into the hermetic nightmare the \"other\" character - the person from the side. But this \"stranger\" (the main character is the Psychiatrist, a kind of heir to the narrator from\"The Fall of the House of Usher\" by Edgar Allan Poe) shows himself not as an alien body. His invasion does not cause any changes in the \"family organism\". The family absorbs the \"alien\", turning him into a full participant of a strange game, the exit of which does not exist.\n\nFrom the point of view of cinematic genres, more accurately subgenres, \"Delirium\" can be attributed to the so-called \"stories about the house with no way out\" or \"stories of houses with ghosts.\" From the films of the first category, the closest is \"Singapore Sling\" and \"See You in Hell, My Darling\" by Nikos Nikolaidis. From the films of the second category, you can, for comparison, recall \"The House on Telegraph Hill\" by Robert Wise and \"The Others\" by Alejandro Amenábar. But unlike the films by Wise and Amenabar, in Podolchak's \"Delirium\" the spectator encounters the concept of \"erroneous suspense\" when the director seems to create an atmosphere of anxious anticipation, but these premonitions of something terrible are being destroyed by the characters' inadequate reaction on them.\n\nSuspense, performed by Podolchak, is self-destructing. It has no point of view \"from the outside\", there is no coordinate of \"normality\", relating to which the viewer is able to oppose herself/himself to screen suspense. The viewer becomes this obscurity. Thus Podolchak provokes a feeling of acute claustrophobia - there is no way out from Podolchak's \"home-world\". The spectator, like the characters, does not know is there anything beyond the boundaries of the place where she/he is at the moment. Since \"this moment\" has the ability to loop, then the flight \"from here\" becomes simply impossible.\n\nAward\nNominations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37800", "title": "Dendrochronology", "text": "Dendrochronology\n\nDendrochronology (or tree-ring dating) is the scientific method of dating tree rings (also called growth rings) to the exact year they were formed in order to analyze atmospheric conditions during different periods in history.\n\nDendrochronology is useful for determining the timing of events and rates of change in the environment (most prominently climate) and also in works of art and architecture, such as old panel paintings on wood, buildings, etc. It is also used in radiocarbon dating to calibrate radiocarbon ages.\n\nNew growth in trees occurs in a layer of cells near the bark. A tree's growth rate changes in a predictable pattern throughout the year in response to seasonal climate changes, resulting in visible growth rings. Each ring marks a complete cycle of seasons, or one year, in the tree's life. , the oldest tree-ring measurements in the Northern Hemisphere are a floating sequence extending from about 12,580 to 13,900 years. Dendrochronology derives from ('), meaning \"tree\", ('), meaning \"time\", and \"(\"), \"the study of\".\n\nThe Greek botanist Theophrastus (ca. 371 – ca. 287 BC) first mentioned that the wood of trees has rings. In his \"Trattato della Pittura\" (Treatise on Painting), Leonardo da Vinci (1452 – 1519) was the first person to mention that trees form rings annually and that their thickness is determined by the conditions under which they grew. In 1737, French investigators Henri-Louis Duhamel du Monceau and Georges-Louis Leclerc de Buffon examined the effect of growing conditions on the shape of tree rings. They found that in 1709, a severe winter produced a distinctly dark tree ring, which served as a reference for subsequent European naturalists. In the U.S., Alexander Catlin Twining (1801–1884) suggested in 1833 that patterns among tree rings could be used to synchronize the dendrochronologies of various trees and thereby to reconstruct past climates across entire regions. The English polymath Charles Babbage proposed using dendrochronology to date the remains of trees in peat bogs or even in geological strata (1835, 1838).\n\nDuring the latter half of the nineteenth century, the scientific study of tree rings and the application of dendrochronology began. In 1859, the German-American Jacob Kuechler (1823–1893) used crossdating to examine oaks (\"Quercus stellata\") in order to study the record of climate in western Texas. In 1866, the German botanist, entomologist, and forester Julius Ratzeburg (1801–1871) observed the effects on tree rings of defoliation caused by insect infestations. By 1882, this observation was already appearing in forestry textbooks. In the 1870s, the Dutch astronomer Jacobus C. Kapteyn (1851–1922) was using crossdating to reconstruct the climates of the Netherlands and Germany. In 1881, the Swiss-Austrian forester Arthur von Seckendorff-Gudent (1845–1886) was using crossdating. From 1869 to 1901, Robert Hartig (1839–1901), a German professor of forest pathology, wrote a series of papers on the anatomy and ecology of tree rings. In 1892, the Russian physicist Fedor Nikiforovich Shvedov (Фёдор Никифорович Шведов) (1841–1905) wrote that he had used patterns found in tree rings to predict droughts in 1882 and 1891.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, the astronomer A. E. Douglass founded the Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research at the University of Arizona. Douglass sought to better understand cycles of sunspot activity and reasoned that changes in solar activity would affect climate patterns on earth, which would subsequently be recorded by tree-ring growth patterns (\"i.e.\", sunspots → climate → tree rings).\n\nHorizontal cross sections cut through the trunk of a tree can reveal growth rings, also referred to as \"tree rings\" or \"annual rings\". Growth rings result from new growth in the vascular cambium, a layer of cells near the bark that botanists classify as a lateral meristem; this growth in diameter is known as secondary growth. Visible rings result from the change in growth speed through the seasons of the year; thus, critical for the title method, one ring generally marks the passage of one year in the life of the tree. Removal of the bark of the tree in a particular area may cause deformation of the rings as the plant overgrows the scar.\n\nThe rings are more visible in trees which have grown in temperate zones, where the seasons differ more markedly. The inner portion of a growth ring forms early in the growing season, when growth is comparatively rapid (hence the wood is less dense) and is known as \"early wood\" (or \"spring wood\", or \"late-spring wood\"); the outer portion is the \"late wood\" (sometimes termed \"summer wood\", often being produced in the summer, though sometimes in the autumn) and is denser.\nMany trees in temperate zones produce one growth-ring each year, with the newest adjacent to the bark. Hence, for the entire period of a tree's life, a year-by-year record or ring pattern builds up that reflects the age of the tree and the climatic conditions in which the tree grew. Adequate moisture and a long growing season result in a wide ring, while a drought year may result in a very narrow one.\n\nDirect reading of tree ring chronologies is a complex science, for several reasons. First, contrary to the single-ring-per-year paradigm, alternating poor and favorable conditions, such as mid-summer droughts, can result in several rings forming in a given year. In addition, particular tree-species may present \"missing rings\", and this influences the selection of trees for study of long time-spans. For instance, missing rings are rare in oak and elm trees.\n\nCritical to the science, trees from the same region tend to develop the same patterns of ring widths for a given period of chronological study. Researchers can compare and match these patterns ring-for-ring with patterns from trees which have grown at the same time in the same geographical zone (and therefore under similar climatic conditions). When one can match these tree-ring patterns across successive trees in the same locale, in overlapping fashion, chronologies can be built up—both for entire geographical regions and for sub-regions. Moreover, wood from ancient structures with known chronologies can be matched to the tree-ring data (a technique called \"cross-dating\"), and the age of the wood can thereby be determined precisely. Dendrochronologists originally carried out cross-dating by visual inspection; more recently, they have harnessed computers to do the task, applying statistical techniques to assess the matching. To eliminate individual variations in tree-ring growth, dendrochronologists take the smoothed average of the tree-ring widths of multiple tree-samples to build up a ring history, a process termed replication. A tree-ring history whose beginning- and end-dates are not known is called a \"floating chronology\". It can be anchored by cross-matching a section against another chronology (tree-ring history) whose dates are known.\n\nA fully anchored and cross-matched chronology for oak and pine in central Europe extends back 12,460 years, and an oak chronology goes back 7,429 years in Ireland and 6,939 years in England. Comparison of radiocarbon and dendrochronological ages supports the consistency of these two independent dendrochronological sequences. Another fully anchored chronology that extends back 8500 years exists for the bristlecone pine in the Southwest US (White Mountains of California).\n\nDendrochronological equation defines the law of growth of tree rings.\nThe equation was proposed by Russian biophysicist Alexandr N. Tetearing in his work \"Theory of populations\" in the form:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is width of annual ring, formula_3 is time (in years), formula_4 is density of wood, formula_5 is some coefficient, formula_6 is function of mass growth of the tree.\n\nWith the neglection of natural sinusoidal oscillations in tree mass,\nthe formula of the changes in the annual ring width is:\n\nformula_7\n\nThere formula_8, formula_9, and formula_10 are some coefficients, formula_11 and formula_12 are positive constants.\n\nThe formula is useful for correct approximation of samples data before data normalization procedure.\n\nThe typical forms of the function formula_13 of annual growth of wood ring are shown in the figures.\n\nDendrochronology makes available specimens of once-living material accurately dated to a specific year. Dates are often represented as estimated calendar years B.P., for before present, where \"present\" refers to 1 January 1950.\n\nTimber core samples are sampled and used to measure the width of annual growth rings; by taking samples from different sites within a particular region, researchers can build a comprehensive historical sequence. The techniques of dendrochronology are more consistent in areas where trees grew in marginal conditions such as aridity or semi-aridity where the ring growth is more sensitive to the environment, rather than in humid areas where tree-ring growth is more uniform (complacent). In addition, some genera of trees are more suitable than others for this type of analysis. For instance, the bristlecone pine is exceptionally long-lived and slow growing, and has been used extensively for chronologies; still-living and dead specimens of this species provide tree-ring patterns going back thousands of years, in some regions more than 10,000 years. Currently, the maximum span for fully anchored chronology is a little over 11,000 years B.P.\n\nIn 2004 a new radiocarbon calibration curve, INTCAL04, was internationally ratified to provide calibrated dates back to 26,000 B.P. For the period back to 12,400 B.P., the radiocarbon dates are calibrated against dendrochronological dates.\n\nDendrochronology practice faces many obstacles, including the existence of species of ants that inhabit trees and extend their galleries into the wood, thus destroying ring structure.\n\nEuropean chronologies derived from wooden structures initially found it difficult to bridge the gap in the 14th century when there was a building hiatus, which coincided with the Black Death, however there do exist unbroken chronologies dating back to prehistoric times, for example the Danish chronology dating back to 352 BC.\n\nGiven a sample of wood, the variation of the tree-ring growths provides not only a match by year, it can also match location because the climate across a continent is not consistent. This makes it possible to determine the source of ships as well as smaller artifacts made from wood but which were transported long distances, such as panels for paintings and ship timbers.\n\nDates from dendrochronology can be used as a calibration and check of radiocarbon dating\n\nDendroclimatology is the science of determining past climates from trees primarily from the properties of the annual tree rings. Other properties of the annual rings, such as maximum latewood density (MXD) have been shown to be better proxies than simple ring width. Using tree rings, scientists have estimated many local climates for hundreds to thousands of years previous.\n\nDendrochronology has become important to art historians in the dating of panel paintings. However, unlike analysis of samples from buildings, which are typically sent to a laboratory, wooden supports for paintings usually have to be measured in a museum conservation department, which places limitations on the techniques that can be used.\n\nIn addition to dating, dendrochronology can also provide information as to the source of the panel. Many Early Netherlandish paintings have turned out to be painted on panels of \"Baltic oak\" shipped from the Vistula region via ports of the Hanseatic League. Oak panels were used in a number of northern countries such as England, France and Germany. Wooden supports other than oak were rarely used by Netherlandish painters.\n\nSince panels of seasoned wood were used, an uncertain number of years has to be allowed for seasoning when estimating dates. Panels were trimmed of the outer rings, and often each panel only uses a small part of the radius of the trunk. Consequently, dating studies usually result in a \"terminus post quem\" (earliest possible) date, and a tentative date for the actual arrival of a seasoned raw panel using assumptions as to these factors. As a result of establishing numerous sequences, it was possible to date 85–90% of the 250 paintings from the 14th to 17th century analysed between 1971 and 1982; by now a much greater number have been analysed.\n\nA portrait of Mary, Queen of Scots in the National Portrait Gallery, London was believed to be an 18th-century copy. However, dendrochronology revealed that the wood dated from the second half of the 16th century. It is now regarded as an original 16th-century painting by an unknown artist.\n\nOn the other hand, dendrochronology was applied to four paintings depicting the same subject, that of Christ expelling the money-lenders from the Temple. The results showed that the age of the wood was too late for any of them to have been painted by Hieronymus Bosch.\n\nWhile dendrochronology has become an important tool for dating oak panels, it is not effective in dating the poplar panels often used by Italian painters because of the erratic growth rings in poplar.\n\nThe 16th century saw a gradual replacement of wooden panels by canvas as the support for paintings, which means the technique is less often applicable to later paintings. In addition, many panel paintings were transferred onto canvas or other supports during the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe dating of buildings with wooden structures and components has also been done by using dendrochronology. While archaeologists can date wood and when it was felled, it may be difficult to definitively determine the age of a building or structure in which the wood was used; the wood could have been reused from an older structure, may have been felled and left for many years before use, or could have been used to replace a damaged piece of wood. The dating of building via dendrochronology thus requires knowledge of the history of building technology.\n\nExamples:\n\nSimilar seasonal patterns also occur in ice cores and in varves (layers of sediment deposition in a lake, river, or sea bed). The deposition pattern in the core will vary for a frozen-over lake versus an ice-free lake, and with the fineness of the sediment.\n\nSome columnar cactus also exhibit similar seasonal patterns in the isotopes of carbon and oxygen in their spines (acanthochronology). These are used for dating in a manner similar to dendrochronology, and such techniques are used in combination with dendrochronology, to plug gaps and to extend the range of the seasonal data available to archaeologists and paleoclimatologists.\n\nA similar technique is used to estimate the age of fish stocks through the analysis of growth rings in the otolith bones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2780133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2780133", "title": "Dream diary", "text": "Dream diary\n\nA dream diary (or dream journal) is a diary in which dream experiences are recorded. A dream diary might include a record of nightly dreams, personal reflections and waking dream experiences. It is often used in the study of dreams and psychology. Dream diaries are also used by some people as a way to help induce lucid dreams. They are also regarded as a useful catalyst for remembering dreams. The use of a dream diary was recommended by Ann Faraday in \"The Dream Game\" as an aid to memory and a way to preserve details, many of which are otherwise rapidly forgotten no matter how memorable the dream originally seemed. Keeping a dream diary conditions a person to view remembering dreams as important. Dreams can be recorded in a paper diary (as text, drawings, paintings, etc.) or via an audio recording device (as narrative, music or imitations of other auditory experiences from the dream). Many websites offer the ability to create a digital dream diary.\n\nDream diaries are often kept by people striving to induce and remember lucid dreams. Writing down dreams increases what is called dream recall, or the ability to remember dreams. When writing down dreams, the dreamer often searches for dream signs, or recurring themes that have been detected between dreams. Dream recall can vary from day to day but keeping a diary tends to regulate waking dream memory.\n\nIt is important to record the dreams in the diary immediately after waking up, as individuals forget the details of their dreams very quickly. Writing the next day's date in the dream diary asserts a conscious thought to remember dreams, which communicates intention to the subconscious mind. The subconscious mind then responds by fulfilling that desire. This mental action causes the conscious and subconscious minds to work together toward the common goal of remembering the dream.\n\nThe discipline of waking up to record a dream in a diary sometimes leads to a false awakening where the dreamer records the previous dream while still in a dream. Some dream diarists report writing down the same dream one or two times in a dream before actually waking up, and recording it in a physical dream diary.\n\nFollowers of Eckankar frequently keep dream diaries, since they view dreams as important teaching tools and as a gateway to \"Soul Travel,\" or the shifting of one's consciousness to ever-higher states of being.\n\n"}
{"id": "4900090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4900090", "title": "Drood", "text": "Drood\n\nThe Mystery of Edwin Drood (or simply Drood) is a musical based on the unfinished Charles Dickens novel \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\". It is written by Rupert Holmes, and was the first Broadway musical with multiple endings (determined by audience vote). Holmes received Tony Awards for Best Book and Best Original Score. The musical won five Tony Awards out of eleven nominations, including Best Musical and Best Leading Actor.\n\nThe musical debuted as part of the New York Shakespeare Festival in August 1985, and, following revision, transferred to Broadway, where it ran until May 1987. Two national tours and a production in London's West End followed. The Roundabout Theatre Company revived the musical as \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\" in 2012.\n\nThe musical \"Drood\" is derived from two major inspirations: Charles Dickens' final (and unfinished) novel, \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\", and the British pantomime and music hall traditions that reached the height of their popularity in the years following Dickens' death.\n\nDickens' \"Mystery\" began publication in 1870. The book, which had been written and published in episodic installments (as had most of Dickens' other novels) was left unfinished upon Dickens' sudden death from a stroke that year. The lack of resolution to the mystery (and the absence of notes that would indicate Dickens' intentions) have made \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\" a literary curiosity. Almost immediately after the publication of Dickens' last episode, various authors and playwrights (including Dickens' own son) attempted to resolve the story with their own endings: by the time of the \"Drood\" musical's production, there had been several \"collaborations\" between the late Dickens and other novelists, numerous theatrical extrapolations of the material, and three film adaptations of the story.\n\nContemporaneous with Dickens' writing, British pantomime styles — distinguished by the importance of audience participation and conventions like the principal boy — reached their height of popularity, just as music hall performance with its attributes of raucous, risque comedy and a distinctive style of music began to achieve prominence.\n\nRupert Holmes, who would go on to be the major creative contributor to the musical \"Drood\", spent his early childhood in England. At age three, he would experience theater for the first time when he was taken to a modern \"panto\", complete with cross-dressing lead boy and audience sing-alongs. Some years later, as an 11-year-old boy fascinated by mystery books, Holmes first discovered the unfinished Dickens novel. Both of those seminal experiences would go on to have a major impact on Holmes when he was first approached to write a new musical by impresario Joseph Papp.\n\nHolmes, a well-known popular songwriter whose songs had been performed by the likes of Barbra Streisand, and who had himself recorded the #1 hit \"Escape (The Piña Colada Song)\" in 1979, first became interested in writing a musical in 1983. Following a nightclub appearance during which Holmes performed some of his \"story-songs\" while sharing humorous anecdotes, Holmes received a note from Gail Merrifield, director of play development at the New York Shakespeare Festival (and wife of Joseph Papp, the creator and head of the Festival), who had seen Holmes' performance and suggested that he write a full-length musical.\n\nDrawing on his recollections of pantomime and Dickens' novel, as well as later experiences with Victorian-style music hall performance, Holmes conceived the central premises of the show. From the Dickens work, Holmes took the central plot and most of the featured characters. From music hall traditions, he created the lead character of \"The Chairman\", a sort of Master of Ceremonies and instigator of the action on stage. And from pantomime he retained the concept of the \"Lead Boy\" (always portrayed by a young female in male drag) and the most ground-breaking aspect of \"Drood\", audience participation.\n\n\"Drood\" is unusual in part because of Holmes' feat of writing the book, music, lyrics, and full orchestrations for the show. Though Holmes believed no Broadway creator had done this before, and despite frequent mentions of this feat in articles and reviews of the show, the practice was not entirely uncommon in the early days of musical theater. Songwriters, including Adolf Philipp, were previously credited with the books to their musicals. However, none of these composer/librettists had written their own orchestrations as well.\n\nIn writing the book, Holmes did not let Dickens overshadow his own intentions. Rather than imitate Dickens' writing style, which he felt would be too bleak for the kind of show he wished to write, Holmes employed the device of a \"show-within-a-show.\" The cast members of \"Drood\" do not specifically play Dickens' characters, but rather music hall performers who are performing as Dickens' characters. This device allowed for a great deal of light comedy that was not originally found in Dickens' novel to be incorporated into the show, as well as several musical numbers that were unrelated to the original story. In explaining this decision, Holmes was quoted as saying, \"This is not Nicholas Nickleby set to music--it's not a Dickensian work. It's light and fun and entertaining. But I hope--I think--that Dickens would have enjoyed it.\" Holmes has also pointed out that \"It has the same relationship to Dickens that \"Kiss Me Kate\" does to \"The Taming of the Shrew\".\" The pantomime concept also allowed Holmes to employ a female in the lead male role, which further allowed him to write a love song designed to be sung by two sopranos.\n\nMost inventively, Holmes employed a novel method of determining the outcome of the play: having the audience vote for an ending. At a break in the show, the audience votes on who killed Drood (if, indeed, he was killed at all), the identity of the mysterious Dick Datchery, and on which two characters will become romantically involved in the end, creating a happy ending. Since every audience differs in temperament, the outcome is theoretically unpredictable even to the actors, who must quickly tally the votes and commence with the chosen ending (although some smaller companies will \"fix\" the results to limit the number of possible endings). This device required extra work from Holmes, who had to write numerous short endings which covered every possible voting outcome.\n\nThere are several differences between the musical and the novel. The tone of Dickens' original book was somewhat bleak (as was Dickens' style), whereas the show is considerably more lighthearted and played for comedy. The most notable difference in characterization involves Jasper: though Dickens' character is undoubtedly repressed and troubled, he is not depicted with the full-fledged split personality that he appears to have in the musical. Several minor characters are omitted, and the roles of others are expanded. In the musical, Bazzard is Crisparkle's assistant, whereas in the novel he is employed by Rosa's guardian, Mr. Grewgious. Meanwhile, in order to increase the interactivity of the play and introduce doubt as to who the murderer is, the musical omits several of the novel's clues that Jasper is the killer and introduces clues which do not appear in the novel pointing at other suspects.\n\nAct One opens as the members of the Music Hall Royale circulate among the audience, introducing themselves to the patrons. More and more members of the company add to the growing noise, until the music begins and the Chairman of the proceedings bursts forth with the show’s opening number \"There You Are\". They then introduce John Jasper, the 'Jekyll and Hyde' choirmaster who greets his young nephew Edwin Drood in the song \"Two Kinsmen\", where they express their strong friendship. Drood is engaged to the fair Miss Rosa Bud, who is Jasper’s music pupil and the object of his mad obsession. Rosa's suspicion of his obsession is confirmed when at her next lesson, he asks her to sing a song he has written- \"Moonfall\"- an innuendo-heavy love song from Jasper to her. The kindly Reverend Crisparkle and two exotic emigrants from Ceylon, Helena and Neville Landless, arrive. Neville is immediately attracted to Rosa, which makes him a rival to both Edwin and the secretive Jasper.\n\nNext the chairman brings the audience to London and the sinister opium den of the Princess Puffer who talks with the audience, and explains her life in \"Wages of Sin\". A sinewy ballet dance follows. We discover that one of Puffer’s regular clients is none other than Jasper himself, who cries out the name 'Rosa Bud' during a hallucination. Puffer shows great interest in this fact, and stores it away in her memory. Back in Cloisterham, Neville and Drood meet and come to odds with each other almost immediately.\n\nNext, The Chairman is called in to play another character as that actor is unable to come, but it turned out that the scenes of his character and the scenes of Mayor Sapsea coincide- and the characters have to disagree with each other. This results in major confusion for poor Mayor Sapsea/The Chairman, and laughs for the audience. He and Jasper sing of their conflicting minds- Jasper, of course, meaning it literally- in the patter song \"Both Sides Of The Coin\". We are then introduced to the drunken stonemason Durdles, and his assistant Deputy. In the graveyard, they tell us that Edwin and Rosa, who have been promised to each other since they were children and so cannot tell if they truly love each other, have called off their engagement (\"Perfect Strangers\"). As a parting gift, Rosa gives Drood her hair clasp, which once belonged to her mother.\n\nIt is Christmas Eve and Jasper has arranged a ‘reconciliation’ dinner for the Landless twins, Crisparkle, Rosa and Drood. In the resulting song \"No Good Can Come from Bad\", Neville and Drood's antagonism is reinstated, Helena's and Crisparkle's worry for Neville's reputation is shown, and it is revealed that Crisparkle used to be in love with Rosa's mother, who died after Rosa's birth. Soon the party disbands and the guests depart into a violent storm. There is a short halt here, where the actor playing Bazzard soliloquizes about how he never seems to be able to get a major part in a show in the song \"Never The Luck\".\n\nThe next day Drood has vanished. Crisparkle’s assistant discovers Edwin’s torn coat by the river. Drood was last seen walking there with Neville the night before. Nevile is almost lynched by the townsfolk before being rescued by Crisparkle. Jasper publicly swears to track down his nephew's killer; later he visits Rosa and confesses his love for her. She is horrified and angry, and they sing \"The Name Of Love And Moonfall\", ending with Jasper's pursuing Rosa off-stage as the act concludes.\n\nAct Two begins six months later, and still there is no sign of Drood. There is much speculation as to his fate. Meanwhile, it is revealed that Puffer has been investigating Drood's disappearance, but has also noticed a rather seedy looking figure who seems to be doing the same. It turns out that this man (played by the same actor who plays Drood, normally), Dick Datchery, is a private investigator. They sing \"Settling Up The Score\". The cast appears and summarizes the situation, warning the audience, \"don't fall back on your assumptions, hasty presumptions might do you in!\", telling them to think carefully of who they will vote for as the murderer, in the song \"Don't Quit While You're Ahead\". As the song climbs to a climax, the actors trail off, and the Chairman announces to the audience that it was at this place that Charles Dickens laid down his pen forever. However, they, with the audience's help, will resolve the story and the public voting begins as to who Datchery and The Murderer are; unfortunately, the actress playing Drood and, up to that point, Datchery is \"not\" chosen as Datchery and exits the theater in a huff. Once the votes have been tabulated, the cast come out and sing \"Don't Quit While You're Ahead\" to welcome the audience back into the story and to remind them that the mystery has not been solved.\n\nPuffer finds Rosa, reveals that years before she had been Rosa's nanny and tells her backstory in the song \"Garden Path To Hell\"; she tells of a man she loved who made her become a prostitute to please his friends and then left her. Once she lost her looks, she found a way to earn money- selling opium. She then continues with \"Puffer's Revelation\" and reveals the identity of Datchery (previously chosen by the audience.) The evening's Datchery (either Bazzard, Reverend Crisparkle, Helena, Neville, or Rosa) explains in their version of the revelation song \"Out On A Limerick\" why they donned the costume and tracked down the killer; the girls did it mainly to disguise their gender, Neville to prove his innocence, Crisparkle to help both Neville and Helena, and Bazzard to give himself both a dramatic reveal and an important character to play. The gist of each song is that the character followed Jasper to his house and found the clasp that Rosa gave Drood, which Jasper would have had only if he had taken it from Drood. Jasper's double nature reveals itself, and he admits that he strangled his nephew while under the influence of the laudanum that he reveals he poured into the wine the night of the dinner party (\"Jasper's Confession\").\n\nDurdles the gravedigger, however, disagrees; he witnessed the crime and knows who truly killed Edwin Drood. Depending on the audience's vote, the finger is pointed at Bazzard, Crisparkle, Helena, Neville, Puffer, Rosa or Durdles. The murderer confesses, then sings a reprise of one of several numbers, beginning with \"A Man Could Go Quite Mad\", to admit his or her culpability; the gist of each of these songs is that the character who killed Drood was seeking to kill \"Jasper\", not Drood, for his or her own purpose- Puffer to protect Rosa, Rosa to save herself, Helena to get revenge on Jasper for ruining her twin's chance at a new beginning, Bazzard to bring himself into the limelight, Neville because he wanted Rosa for himself, and Crisparkle because he killed Rosa's mother out of jealousy and religious mania and wanted to protect both Rosa and Neville from Jasper's evil. However, because of the storm, Jasper had walked with Drood for a while and then given him his coat to wear for the journey home, so the murderer, because of the laudanum in the wine and the foul night weather, mistook Drood for Jasper. (Durdles lacks this motivation, however, so his confession is simply that, in his drunkenness, he mistook Drood for a ghost.) If, although not likely, the audience chooses Jasper as the murderer, Durdles does not interrupt and a second confession is not performed (Some theaters will not count Jasper votes, to make sure that there is a twist).\n\nStill, a happy ending is needed, and the Chairman asks the audience to choose two lovers from among the remaining cast members. The two chosen members declare their love, and then reprise \"Perfect Strangers\". Just then, there comes a noise from the crypt, and a very-much-alive Edwin Drood appears, ready to tell all what really happened on the night of his disappearance (\"The Writing On The Wall\"). What happened was that when Drood was attacked, he was only stunned when he fell and not killed. Jasper dragged him to a crypt where he left him. When Drood woke, he escaped and fled from Cloisterham, only returning so that he could find out who wanted him dead. He sings to the audience, eventually joined by the rest of the cast, imploring them to hold on to life for as long as they possibly can and telling them that 'holding on to life is all.' The mystery is solved, and the show concludes as the cast sings to the audience to read the writing on the wall.\n\nJohn Jasper- Jasper was madly in love with Rosa Bud, and his violent split personality gladly killed Drood. His confession is a reprise of \"A Man Could Go Quite Mad\" and \"Moonfall\". Jasper's confession is performed no matter who is chosen as the murderer, and the audience is discouraged from voting for him since he is the obvious solution. <br> \nRosa Bud- Meant to kill Jasper in revenge for his lustful advances and also due to her own mental instability caused by Jasper's persecution, but killed Drood by accident as Drood was wearing Jasper's coat. Her confession is a reprise of \"A Man Could Go Quite Mad\" and \"No Good Can Come From Bad\" <br>\nNeville Landless- Humiliated by Drood, Neville murdered him in order to regain his pride and also to have a chance with Rosa Bud. His confession is a reprise of \"A Man Could Go Quite Mad\" and \"No Good Can Come From Bad\" in the original Broadway production, later changed to \"A British Subject\" <br>\nHelena Landless- Knowing her brother's hot temper, Helena murdered Drood so Neville would not be tempted to seek revenge. Her confession is a reprise of \"A Man Could Go Quite Mad\" and \"No Good Can Come From Bad\" in the original Broadway production, later changed to \"A British Subject\" <br>\nPrincess Puffer- Intended to kill Jasper in order to protect Rosa from his advances, but accidentally killed Drood because he was wearing Jasper's coat and because she was confused after having smoked opium for Dutch courage. Her confession is a reprise of \"The Wages of Sin\" <br>\nThe Rev. Mr. Crisparkle- Crisparkle was madly in love with Rosa's mother, and he saw Rosa as a reincarnation of her. He murdered Drood so that he could marry Rosa, thinking her to be the woman he loved. This version of Crisparkle's confession was introduced in the first national tour, and has been used in all productions since. His confession is a reprise of \"A Man Could Go Quite Mad\" and \"No Good Can Come From Bad\" in the original Broadway production, later changed to \"A British Subject\". <br>\nBazzard - In an effort to boost his role in the show, murders Drood. This is definitely the most metatheatrical of the endings. His confession is a reprise of \"A Man Could Go Quite Mad\" and \"Never the Luck\" <br>\nDurdles- After Jasper laid Drood in the crypt, Durdles believed the still-alive Drood to be a ghost and so smashed his head in. (Even Durdles admits the silliness of this motive within his solo, but laments that because he has been chosen he must have one.) This solo was not used in the original Broadway production and was added for the first national tour. His confession is a reprise of \"Off to the Races\"\n\nAs \"Drood\" is metatheatrical, the characters of the play \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\" are played by actors of the \"Music Hall Royale\", within the production. The following are the dual roles each cast member plays. Note: The actress portraying Miss Alice Nutting/Edwin Drood also performs the role of Dick Datchery up until the Voting portion of the evening. However, as is noted in the script, this is merely a \"bit\" within the context of The Music Hall Royale - that Miss Nutting only portrays Datchery due to a contractual obligation for her to appear in both acts of the play. Ultimately, the audience decides who Dick Datchery is within the confines of Dickens' story.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Not included on the original cast recording\n\n\"†\" Reinstated for the 2012 Broadway revival\n\n§ Moved at the end of Act I for the Tams-Witmark licensed version and the 2012 Broadway revival\n\n\"††\" Moved after \"Settling Up the Score\" for the Tams-Witmark licensed version and the 2012 Broadway revival\n\nFor the version of \"Drood\" that Tams-Witmark licenses to theater companies, Holmes made a variety of changes to the score and libretto, many of which reflect the versions seen in the 1987 London production and the 1988 North American touring production. The numbers \"A Man Could Go Quite Mad,\" \"Ceylon,\" \"Settling Up the Score,\" and the quartet reprise of \"Moonfall\" are not standard but are provided as \"additional material\" that theaters can choose to perform at their options.\n\n\nIn 1985, a recording was made of \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\" featuring the original Broadway cast. This recording was released by Polydor with the additional subtitle, \"The Solve-It-Yourself Broadway Musical\" (Polydor 827969) and the CD included versions of \"Out on a Limerick\" by all five possible Datcherys (Rosa, Crisparkle, Bazzard, Neville, and Helena) and all six possible Murderer's Confessions (Puffer, Rosa, Bazzard, Crisparkle, Neville, and Helena), as well as an \"instructional track\" entitled \"A Word From Your Chairman...\" The LP and cassette included only the opening-night Confession and murderer, and omitted the \"lovers.\" A 1990 re-issue of the cast album by Varèse Sarabande (Varèse 5597) included two tracks, \"Ceylon\" and \"Moonfall Quartet\", that are on the original LP and cassette, but not on the CD. It included only Bazzard's version of \"Out on a Limerick\" and two Murderer Confessions (Rosa's and Puffer's). The Polydor recording was briefly available on cassette and LP, and ultimately re-released by Varèse Sarabande. Both versions of the cast album are currently out of print, but can sometimes be found (often at a high price) through secondhand vendors or online auction sites.\n\nAn Australian cast album (GEP Records 9401) was released in 1994. This recording did not include \"Ceylon\" or \"Moonfall Quartet\", but did include three previously unrecorded tracks: \"A British Subject\", \"Puffer's Revelation\", and \"Durdles' Confession\". It should be noted that the Australian cast album was performed by a largely non-professional cast and used (arguably crude) midi sequencing in lieu of a live orchestra. Two songs that were omitted from \"Drood\" before it reached Broadway, \"An English Music Hall\" and \"Evensong,\" (a duet between Rosa and Crisparkle) were later recorded for the 1994 album, \"Lost In Boston\". Other songs that never made into the Broadway or London/'88 Tour (Tams-Witmark) versions include: \"When the Wicked Man Comes\" (sung by a much younger Deputy), \"Sapsea's Song\" (a music hall ditty for Mayor Sapsea), \"I Wouldn't Say No\" (a song and dance routine for Durdles) as well as \"When Shall These Three Meet Again\" - a group number which can be heard as underscoring throughout the show and in the murderer's confession: \"But the night was far from bright...\"\nOn January 29, 2013, a recording featuring the 2012 cast of the Broadway revival was released by DRG Records in a 2-disc set and as a digital download. DRG Records describes the recording as \"the complete musical program on 2 compact discs\" for the first time. Differences between this recording and the original recording include confessions from all eight possible murderers, two versions of \"Out on a Limerick\" (Bazzard and Helena), the lovers' reprise of \"Perfect Strangers\" (featuring a combination of Princess Puffer & Deputy, Helena & Neville, and Rosa & Durdles), a revised \"Ceylon\" (which now incorporates \"A British Subject\"), a previously cut song (\"An English Music Hall\") as the new opening for Act II, and the \"Opium Den Ballet\". Holmes penned the liner notes for the album that will reflect new material and revisions. Holmes also re-orchestrated the production for a 19-piece orchestra led by Paul Gemignani.\n\nAfter Rupert Holmes wrote an initial draft that lasted three-and-a-half hours, and performed it, solo, for Joseph Papp, Gail Merrifield, and Wilford Leach, (the New York Shakespeare Festival's artistic director), Papp offered to produce the show as part of the Festival (also known as \"Shakespeare in the Park\"), and told Holmes that it would be immediately transferred to Broadway if it was deemed a success. The original production of \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\" premiered in New York City's Central Park at the Delacorte Theatre on August 21, 1985 after only three weeks of rehearsals. Notably, Holmes conceived most of the orchestrations himself, a rarity for a Broadway composer.\n\nAfter the final Festival performance on September 1, preparations for the Broadway transfer (retaining the original cast) immediately got underway. Following a great deal of editing (the Delacorte version contained 32 original songs and was nearly three hours long) \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\" opened on Broadway at the Imperial Theatre on December 2, 1985. Roughly halfway through the run, the title of the musical was officially shortened to \"Drood\" (the name it continues to be licensed under). The show ran for 608 performances (not including 24 previews), and closed on May 16, 1987. The Broadway production was produced by Papp and directed by Leach, with choreography by Graciela Daniele.\n\nThe opening night cast of the Broadway production starred George Rose, Cleo Laine, John Herrera, Howard McGillin, Patti Cohenour, and Jana Schneider, who were all nominated for 1986 Tony Awards for their performances, as well as Betty Buckley in the title role. Donna Murphy, Judy Kuhn, and Rob Marshall were also members of the ensemble. (Marshall, who would later become best known as a choreographer and theater/film director, also received an early choreography credit as assistant to Daniele.) Before the show ended its run, Murphy, who was understudy to Cleo Laine and Jana Schneider, took over the title role. Other notable replacements during the show's run included Alison Fraser (taking over for Jana Schneider), Paige O'Hara (taking over for Donna Murphy as Drood), as well as Loretta Swit and later Karen Morrow, who stepped into Laine's roles.\n\nIn 1988, several months after closing on Broadway, a slightly-revised version of \"Drood\", directed by Rob Marshall, began its first North America tour at the Kennedy Center Opera House in Washington, DC, with Rose, Schneider and O'Hara reprising their leads, and Jean Stapleton playing Laine's role. During a break in the tour George Rose returned to his home in the Dominican Republic, and was murdered during his stay. Rose was succeeded by Clive Revill. \n\nThe show, also enjoyed a 1987 West End run at the Savoy Theatre in London, a second U.S. national tour, a production at the Shaw Festival in Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario, Canada, and numerous regional and professional and amateur theatrical productions worldwide. In 2007–08, a London revival, presented as a chamber piece and directed by Ted Craig, ran at the Warehouse Theatre.\n\nIn 2012 a London West End revival of the musical played at the Arts Theatre for a limited season from 18 May. The cast was headed by Wendi Peters as Princess Puffer, with Natalie Day as Edwin Drood, Daniel Robinson as John Jasper and Victoria Farley as Rosa Budd. The production was directed by Matthew Gould. \n\nThe Roundabout Theatre Company presented a Broadway revival at Studio 54, which opened in November 2012. The production was directed by Scott Ellis, and starred Chita Rivera as Puffer, Stephanie J. Block as Drood, Will Chase as Jasper, Jim Norton as the Chairman and Gregg Edelmann as Crisparkle.\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "40028032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40028032", "title": "Dustheads", "text": "Dustheads\n\nDustheads was a work by Jean-Michel Basquiat, sold for a record breaking price of 48.8 million dollars at Christie's. \n"}
{"id": "54656703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54656703", "title": "El Badra", "text": "El Badra\n\nEl Badra (, ,) is an Algerian television series, produced and broadcast by Télévision Algérienne, directed by Mohamed Hazourli. It premiere from 2008 to 2010 on Télévision Algérienne, A3 and Canal Algérie..\n\nIt stars Mohammed Adjaimi, Fatiha Berber, Nidhal Doja and Asma Djermoune in the main role.\n"}
{"id": "43167830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43167830", "title": "Fountain of the Spinacorona", "text": "Fountain of the Spinacorona\n\nThe Fountain of the Spinacorona, (), vulgarly known as the \"Fontana delle Zizze\" (Fountain of the Breasts), is an ancient fountain in central Naples, located against a wall of the church of Santa Caterina della Spina Corona.\nThere was likely a fountain at the site well before the 15th century, but documents attest to its reconstruction in 1498 It was rebuilt in the mid-16th century in the present shape by commission of the viceroy Don Pedro Álvarez de Toledo using designs by Giovanni da Nola. The fountain has the heraldic symbol of Charles I, Holy Roman Emperor. \n\nThe subject is the depiction of the siren Parthenope (icon of Naples) who douses, with water emerging from her breasts, the flames of the volcano of Vesuvius. It is unclear why a violin is carved on the slopes of the volcano. The phrase: \"Dum Vesevi Syrena Incendia Mulcet\" (While the Mermaid softens the fire of Vesuvius) is carved into the marble. The fountain seen today is a copy by Achille D’Orsi: the original has been housed in the Museo di San Martino since the 1920s.\n"}
{"id": "53325636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53325636", "title": "Françoise Frenkel", "text": "Françoise Frenkel\n\nFrançoise Frenkel (14 July 1889 - 18 January 1975) was a lifelong book lover, bookstore owner and author. With her husband, in 1921 she opened the \"Maison du Livre français\", Berlin's first specialist French book store, which she ran till 1939.\n\nFrenkel was Jewish. On 27 August 1939 she belatedly escaped from Berlin as a passenger on a special train to Paris which had been organised by the French embassy. Shortly before June 1940, which was when the invading German army reached Paris, she joined the thousands of Parisians fleeing to the south of the country. As the Nazi invaders tightened their grip on southern France she was forced to flee again, crossing into Switzerland near Annecy, on her third attempt, in June 1943. She survived.\n\nShe wrote an account of her adventures which was published (in French) in September 1945 by Verlag Jehebe, a Geneva publishing house that has long ago disappeared. Very few copies were produced and the book was quickly forgotten. However, 35 years after the author's death it was rediscovered in a car boot sale in southern France. \"Rien où poser sa tête\" (\"No place to rest her head\") was republished in 2015, also being translated into German for the first time. It now found a wider resonance, commended by the respected political journalist Robert Fisk both for its messages and for its \"abrupt, shocking yet delicate prose, cruelty and beauty combined in just over 250 pages\".\n\nFrymeta Idesa Frenkel, who later changed her first name to Françoise, was born into an intellectual Jewish family in Piotrków Trybunalski, a midsized prosperous industrial town in Congress Poland, at that time a partially digested western province of the Russian Empire. She had a musical education, and on completing her schooling she moved to Leipzig to study with the composer Xaver Scharwenka, which also gave her an opportunity to improve her German. She then moved on to the Sorbonne in Paris where the focus of her study - later also her life's defining passion - was French literature. When not studying, she spent her time engrossed by the second hand book stalls along the quais by the river near Notre Dame, and in the second hand-book shops in the city's left-bank quarter. In 1918, at the end of the war, she returned home. Her family were well, but the house had been emptied by invading armies. The piano had disappeared from the living room, and in her childhood bedroom the wall hangings had been stripped, the otherwise uncovered plaster being coated with newspaper. Worst of all, the little book collection that she had started to assemble as a child had been taken, although the homemade cabinet that had accommodated it, now emptied, retained pride of place, on the floor in the centre of her room.\n\nShe returned to Paris to complete her studies, after which she took a traineeship/job in a second hand bookshop in the . She loved the work and absorbed the commercial lessons provided, deciding to set up a bookshop specialising in French books back home in Poland, where Russian attempts to restore pre-war partitions had been defeated, and an independent Polish state was re-emerging for the first time since 1795. French culture and literature were respected and widely studied in Poland, especially in the south of the country, and she selected Krakow as an ideal location for a specialist French bookshop. Visiting the city to research the market forced a change of plan, however, when she discovered an abundance of well stocked book shops, many of which already offered an excellent selection of French literature, old and new. Travelling back to Paris, she interrupted her journey for an overnight stop at Berlin to visit friends. That evening she walked with her friends along the city centre streets: lingering in front of the book shop windows she noticed a total absence of French books. Her friends did not share her conviction that the absence of French books in Berlin shop windows represented a commercial opportunity, and the French Consul General also appeared determined to dampen her enthusiasm. The commercial attaché at the French embassy was no more encouraging. Four years of appalling war, accompanied by government propaganda campaigns and followed by the humiliations of the Treaty of Versailles, had done nothing to encourage a love of foreign - especially French - culture. Frenkel was not to be dissuaded, however. By this time she had acquired a husband, Simon Raichenstein, and the two began selling French books, working from the landing between floors in a private apartment in the Kleist Street. In 1921, two years after Sylvia Beach had opened \"Shakespeare and Company\", the first bookstore dedicated to English language literature in Paris and now receiving support from the French diplomatic mission, Frenkel and Raichenstein opened the \"Maison du Livre français\" (\"literally: \"House of the French Book\"\") along the in a district of west-central Berlin with an above average number of Jewish residents.\n\nAt least in the early years, Berlin's intellectual elite approached this new haven of francophone literature only with extreme caution, but at this time, in the wake of the Russian Revolution, there were also around 100,000 Russian refugees living in Berlin, many of whom were well educated and welcomed the chance to read French classics in the original language rather than in translation. As the 1920s progressed the German customers became more numerous, notably philologists. teachers and professors, students along with a few aristocrats left over from an age when the education of young Prussian noblemen was powerfully infiltrated by French culture. Diplomats and other workers from the French embassy and consulate were also frequent visitors. The enterprise acquired a certain cachet, becoming a cultural focus, described by one source as \"one of the top addresses for all francophiles\" in the city. Frenkel organised presentations and receptions for French literary stars and any other fashionable French writers when they visited Berlin. Claude Anet, Henri Barbusse, André Gide, Julien Benda, Aristide Briand and Colette herself were just a few among the notable guests welcomed at the Passauer Street bookshop during these years.\n\nA new government at the start of 1933 changed the political context brutally. The Nazis lost little time in transforming Germany into a one-party dictatorship. The shrill populism that the NSDAP had preached in opposition now became a core underpinning of government strategy. At the heart of this was antisemitism, applied in ways that few at the time would have believed possible. During the next couple of years many of Germany's Jews - especially those who had been politically active or for some other reason had high political or commercial profiles - fled abroad or were arrested.\n\nFrenkel's husband was, like her, Jewish. He had been born in Mogilev, and belonged to a community of Jewish Russian exiles among whom memories of Anti-Jewish pogroms were still very much alive. Simon Raichenstein barely hesitated. By November 1933 he had fled to Paris with a Nansen passport. The French authorities refused to issue him with an identity card, but they nevertheless seem to have given him some sort of residence permit. In any event, he remained in France till July 1942 when he was arrested and, a few weeks later, transported to Auschwitz and murdered on 19 August.\n\nFrançoise Frenkel remained in Berlin. It is not clear how much contact she retained with her husband, but she continued to run the \"Maison du Livre français\". The shop was already facing an officially mandated boycott in 1933, but it remained open. After 1935 practical problems increased, notably in respect of obtaining necessary French currency. There was intervention from the censors and there were other political pressures. Sources refer to an absence of practical backing from the French embassy. On the other hand, as a Polish Jewess running a high-profile business in Berlin, apparently without influential contacts in the political establishment, it is remarkable that the book store was able to operate at all right through till 1939. There are indications that the passionate bibliophile was able to remain in business for so long precisely because her activities enjoyed the support of powerful French publishing houses and French politicians, not all of whom were at this stage committed enemies of Nazi Germany.\n\nShe was still in Berlin in November 1938 to experience National Crystal Night (\"Reichskristallnacht\") when synagogues and the premises of surviving Jewish businesses were attacked, smashed, and ransacked. She experienced the officially sanctioned pogrom from the streets, then from her apartment, in a Jewish quarter of Berlin, and then from the front step of her book store which, miraculously, was spared. As war loomed she finally accepted that there was no future left for her in Germany, and August 1939 she finally gave way to the ever more urgent entreaties of the French consul in Berlin and escaped from Berlin as a passenger on a special train to Paris which had been organised by the French embassy. She placed her personal belongings in a heavy suitcase which a friend sent on after her in the direction of France, where they were later seized by the Nazis. Back in Berlin, the remaining stock of the \"Maison du Livre français\" was also seized, on account of Frenkel's \"racial affiliations\" (\"Rassenzugehörigkeit\").\n\nFrançoise Frenkel spent the next nine months in Paris where Simon Raichenstein was already living. Sources speculate that wife and husband must have met up during this time, but Frenkel's own written record is completely silent on that question. With horror, Frenkel followed the news from Poland during the Autumn/Fall of 1939, desperately hoping for some sign of life from her widowed mother there. On 10 May 1940 German forces invaded France and on 22 June 1940 an armistice was agreed between the French and German governments. Northern France was to be directly occupied by Germany while a Free zone in the south of the country was to be administered by a semi-autonomous puppet government (which during the next four years became progressively less autonomous).\n\nIn May/June 1940, hundreds of thousands fled from Paris in order to avoid the rapidly advancing German army, hurrying to get across the new internal frontier into the Free zone. Having failed to find anywhere to spend the night, many of the more faint-hearted would-be refugees turned round and headed back to Paris, and the roads became hopelessly blocked. Françoise Frenkel also drove south, reaching Vichy, but she found the health resort so overcrowded that she set off again, this time along the road towards Clermont-Ferrand, a little further to the south. However, this road had been blocked by a unit of the French military. Then low flying fighter aircraft from the German army started to attack the lines of cars and everyone had to leap from the cars and take cover in the ditches by the roadside.\n\nInitially French Jews enjoyed a certain level of protection under the so-called \"Vichy-Régime\" in the Free zone, but as the Germans tightened their grip all Jews - whether French or foreign - faced the constant threat of arrest and deportation to the death camps in Germany. Frenkel's first weeks in Vichy France were spent living in Avignon, after which she moved on to Nice. Her book described a Kafkaesque succession of encounters with demoralised and confused bureaucrats: each day she was called upon to obtain a new identity document or temporary residence permit. Information provided by officials was never complete, regulatory requirements changed every day, and the overall experience was characterised by a constantly changing mixture of acute anxieties, hopes and disappointments. Eventually a friend arranged for a Frenchman to marry her in order to provide her with entitlement to permanent residence, but the scheme dissolved into tragi-comic farce when it turned out that the selected husband wanted not just the payment agreed, but also the woman. \nIt appears from at least one source that Françoise Frenkel had applied for and obtained a visa for Switzerland soon after her arrival in France in 1939, but having set her mind on living in France she did not attempt to make her way to Switzerland for another couple of years. By that time, making her way to Switzerland while living in hiding and trying to avoid discovery and deportation by the Gestapo and their Vichy régime collaborators was no easy undertaking. It may have been events in August 1942, when she narrowly avoided capture and deportation, that persuaded her that attempting to enter Switzerland was nevertheless a less life-threatening option than remaining in Vichy France. On 26 August 1942 the police carried out a raid on the little \"Hotel Arche de Noe\" (\"Noah's Ark Hotel\") where she was living. However, by the time they arrived she was out shopping in the town. As she walked back towards the hotel she looked up to wave to her Viennese neighbour at her fourth floor window, but the neighbour was not there. On a third floor balcony, however, her Polish neighbour, a Mr. Sigismund, was gesticulating along the street towards the hotel. Following the direction in which he was indicating, in the distance she spotted all the hotel's other Jewish guests being escorted into police trucks. It was only with extreme difficulty that she resisted a mad urge to show solidarity with the other Jews and deliver herself to the policemen escorting the group, but resist it she did. After this, as she spells out in some detail in her book, she lived \"underground\" and was dependent for survival on those French citizens who had not been infected by the antisemitic propaganda of the Vichy government. As she later recalled, she met good French people and she met bad French people. And quite a lot of each. There were those who put their bourgeois existence on the line in order to protect Jews from the clutches of the gendarmes. Others revealed themselves as opportunists or even as fanatical Jew hunters. Frenkel offers the conclusion that \"a sadistic core may well be hiding inside every person\" (\"Ein sadistischer Kern muss wohl in jedem Menschen stecken\"). National defeat in the summer of 1940 profoundly traumatised the national psyche, and she permits herself the speculation that the manifestation of national weakness caused some of the young men to react by taking out their mental hurt on people demonstrably weaker than themselves. On the administrative front, Frenkel's final months in occupied France were further complicated by a change whereby the eastern strip of the Free zone (including Nice/Nizza) was transferred to Italian control, as the Vichy based puppet régime had its powers ever more diminished. Under the Italian officials Frenkel's presence even, at one stage, was granted a level of legal status. Friends organised a Swiss visa for her. However, she was still Jewish, which meant that from the perspective of the authorities in occupied France, she was not permitted to cross the French frontier Her first attempt led to capture while she sat on the local bus waiting at the border crossing, and a brief prison sentence served in Annecy, followed by a probationary period at conditional liberty. She nevertheless made a second attempt to cross the frontier but was thwarted by an Italian border soldier, who then let her go. She made her third attempt to cross the frontier into Switzerland in June 1943, just a few days before the expiry of her Swiss visa. This time she succeeded. Rolling down a high snow covered hillside slope in the mountains by Annecy, her black dress by now bloodied and torn, she was grabbed by a soldier who delivered a reassuring message: \"Stehen Sie auf, Madame, Sie sind nicht verletzt.\" (\"Get up, Madame, you're not wounded. See, you are in Switzerland.\").\n\nFrançoise Frenkel was 53 when she crossed the frontier to safety near Annecy. She lived for more than another thirty years, dying at Nice on 18 January 1975. Very little is known about her final decades, but it appears that she settled in France. She was in Berlin in 1959, however, visiting the divided city to apply for compensation in respect of the robust travel suitcase which the Nazis had arranged to have confiscated when she escaped from Berlin back in the late summer of 1939. In West Berlin a notary insisted that she provide a list of every single item of clothing that she had packed in the hastily stuffed suitcase. She managed, in the end, to list 24 items, from tailored outfits to cheap night shirts, along with two small type writers. The list was valued at a rate deemed equivalent to 25 Reichsmarks per item. In 1960 the West German government paid her DM 3,500 as a \"reparation\". In the words of an unimpressed commentator, \"for the Germans, the matter was thereby dealt with. However, Françoise Frenkel had lost more than just one [hastily stuffed] suitcase\".\n"}
{"id": "36383252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36383252", "title": "Gurumapa", "text": "Gurumapa\n\nGurumāpā (Devanagari: गुरुमापा) is a mythical creature in the folklore of Nepal Mandala. According to legend, he is said to take away disobedient children, and so was banished to a field in Kathmandu.\n\nThe story of Gurumapa is one of the most well known folk tales in Newar society. He is depicted as a giant with a terrifying face and protruding fangs.\n\nThe story starts with an inveterate named Kesh Chandra who lived in Itumbaha, a sacred courtyard in central Kathmandu. After he had gambled away all of his property, he went to live with his sister. When he stole even the plate on which his lunch was served to gamble, his sister, wishing to teach him a lesson, served his rice on the floor.\n\nDeeply hurt, Kesh Chandra gathered up the food in a handkerchief and walked a long distance to the woods outside the city. Feeling hungry, he unwrapped the rice, and found that it had turned bad and there were maggots all over. So he spread the food to dry in the sun and dozed off.\n\nWhen Kesh Chandra awoke, he found that pigeons had eaten everything. He was so saddened that he broke into tears. Taking pity on him, the pigeons left their droppings which turned into gold. There was so much gold that he couldn't carry it all. As he was pondering what to do, he saw Gurumapa, a man-eating giant that lived in the forest, approaching. He had been attracted by the smell of prey.\n\nKesh Chandran pacified him by calling him uncle, and persuaded him to carry the gold to his home with the promise of a feast and the right to take away children if their parents called him whenever they were bad. Kesh Chandra took Gurumapa home to Itumbaha and let him live in the attic. As the years passed, children started disappearing whenever their parents warned them that Gurumapa would come and get them.\n\nThe local residents then decided that it was not safe to keep Gurumapa in the neighborhood. They promised to provide him an annual feast of boiled rice and buffalo meat if he agreed to live on the field of Tinkhya (Tundikhel). And so the giant was persuaded to move out. To this day, the people of the locality prepare a feast on the day of Ghode Jatra for Gurumapa and leave it on the field which is now a parade ground.\n"}
{"id": "24392050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24392050", "title": "Harry Payne (artist)", "text": "Harry Payne (artist)\n\nHarry Payne (1858–1927) was an English military artist.\n\nHenry Joseph Payne, born at Newington, London, the son of Joseph and Margaret Sophie Payne. His father was a solicitor's clerk. He married Susanna Terese Cossins at Camberwell on 16 June 1887 and they had no children.\n\nWith his brother, Arthur C. Payne, he produced many series of oilette postcards for Raphael Tuck & Sons and also did extensive work for Gale and Polden producing illustrations for their postcard series along with other military artists including Edgar Alfred Holloway, John McNeill, and Ernest Ibbetson.\n\nIn 1898, he and his brother Arthur created a series of chromolithographic and lithographic illustrations for an edition of Robert Browning's \"The Pied Piper of Hamelin\".\n\nHis 1901 painting of the Royal Horse Guards crossing Horse Guards Parade was sold at Bonhams in 2007 for over £50,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "35636480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35636480", "title": "Henryk Pillati", "text": "Henryk Pillati\n\nHenryk Pillati (19 January 1832 in Warsaw – 16 April 1894 in Warsaw) was a Polish illustrator, caricaturist and history painter, in the Classical style.\n\nHe was born to a wealthy family. In 1845, at the age of only thirteen, he entered the in Warsaw. Three years later, both of his parents died during a cholera epidemic. This forced him to leave school and find work to support his surviving younger siblings.\n\nHe managed to get by selling small paintings of genre scenes and episodes from the Polish-Swedish wars. From 1852 to 1853, he created a series of large canvases, designed for decorating steamships owned by Count Andrzej Artur Zamoyski, on the Vistula River. The ships were later confiscated by the Russians during the January Uprising.\n\nLater, he received private scholarships that enabled him to spend a year studying at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris. Four years later, he continued his studies at the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich, then spent some time in Rome.\n\nAfter 1860, although he continued to paint historical scenes, he was primarily engaged in providing illustrations for books (notably works by Adam Mickiewicz and Józef Ignacy Kraszewski) and several periodicals in Warsaw, including the \"Tygodnik Ilustrowany\", ' (Ears), ' (The Wanderer) and \"\" (Literary Feast).\n\nIn 1879, he moved to Saint Petersburg to work for a publishing house, but his increasing alcoholism ruined his health to the point that his younger brother, , who was also a painter, had to bring him home, where he spent his final years living in the residence of the Warsaw Charitable Society. His life was later given fictional treatment in the novel \"Malaria\" by .\n\n"}
{"id": "37097530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37097530", "title": "History of the Book in America", "text": "History of the Book in America\n\nA History of the Book in America is a five-volume series of scholarly books of essays published 2000–2010 by the University of North Carolina Press, and edited by David D. Hall. Topics include printing, publishing, book selling, reading, and other aspects of print culture in colonial America and the United States. Among the contributing writers: Hugh Amory, Georgia B. Barnhill, Paul S. Boyer, Richard D. Brown, Scott E. Casper, Charles E. Clark, James P. Danky, Ann Fabian, James N. Green, Robert A. Gross, Jeffrey D. Groves, David D. Hall, Mary Kelley, E. Jennifer Monaghan, Janice Radway, James Raven, Elizabeth Carroll Reilly, Joan Shelley Rubin, Michael Schudson, David S. Shields, Wayne A. Wiegand, Michael Winship.\n\nThe five volumes in \"A History of the Book in America\" offer a sweeping chronicle of our country's print production and culture from colonial times to the end of the twentieth century. This interdisciplinary, collaborative work of scholarship examines the book trades as they have developed and spread throughout the United States; provides a history of U.S. literary cultures; investigates the practice of reading and, more broadly, the uses of literacy; and links literary culture with larger themes in American history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8709430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8709430", "title": "Horror Writers Association", "text": "Horror Writers Association\n\nThe Horror Writers Association (HWA) is a worldwide non-profit organization of professional writers and publishing professionals dedicated to promoting the interests of Horror and Dark fantasy writers. \n\nHWA was formed in 1985 with the help of many of the field's greats, including Joe R. Lansdale, Robert McCammon, and Dean Koontz, although it was not formally incorporated until 1987, the year it first gave Bram Stoker Awards. The group was originally called \"HOWL\" (Horror and Occult Writers League), but quickly changed to the \"Horror Writers of America\" when they formally organized. HWA now has members and regional chapters throughout North America, Europe, Australia, South Africa, Russia, and Asia, which led to the current name of the organization.\n\nOne of HWA's missions is to encourage public interest in and foster an appreciation of quality horror and dark fantasy literature. To that end, HWA offers information on their Web site, they sponsor or take part in occasional public readings and lectures. They also maintain an official presence at many fan-based horror and fantasy conventions, such as the Bram Stoker Awards® Weekend, World Fantasy Convention and the World Horror Convention.\n\nHWA sponsors the annual Bram Stoker Awards for superior achievement in Horror and Dark fantasy. HWA also presents an annual Lifetime Achievement Award to as many as three living people who have made significant contributions to the writing of Horror and Dark fantasy over the course of a lifetime. There are also a number of service Awards, including the Specialty Press Award and the Silver Hammer Award.\n\nSince 1990, HWA has produced a series of anthologies edited by a few of the more prestigious members and published in hardcover, mass-market or trade paperback by various publishers. Most have also had signed, limited hardcover editions. These anthologies present new stories by the members of the Horror Writers Association. In addition, in 1997 HWA produced a volume of essays on the craft of horror writing, \"On Writing Horror: A Handbook by the Horror Writers Association\", edited by Mort Castle, with contributions from dozens of well-known HWA members. In 2006, an updated and revised version was issued. Their latest series of anthologies, \"Blood Lite\", collects darkly humorous tales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3506963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3506963", "title": "In the Heart of the Sea", "text": "In the Heart of the Sea\n\nIn the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex is a book by American writer Nathaniel Philbrick about the loss of the whaler \"Essex\" in the Pacific Ocean in 1820. The book was published by Viking Press on May 8, 2000, and won the 2000 National Book Award for Nonfiction. It was adapted into a film of the same name, which came out in late 2015.\n\nThe \"Essex\", an American whaleship from Nantucket, Massachusetts, sank after a sperm whale attacked it in the Pacific Ocean in November 1820. Having lost their ship, the crew of the \"Essex\" attempted to sail to South America in whaleboats. After suffering from starvation and dehydration, most of the crew died before the survivors were rescued in February 1821.\n\nIn retelling the story of the crew's ordeal, Philbrick utilizes an account written by Thomas Nickerson, who was a teenage cabin boy on board the \"Essex\" and wrote about the experience in his old age; his account was lost until 1960 but was not authenticated until 1980 before being published, abridged, in 1984. The book also utilizes the better known account of Owen Chase, the ship's first mate, which was published soon after the ordeal.\n\n\"In the Heart of the Sea\" won the 2000 U.S. National Book Award for Nonfiction.\n\nThe story was adapted into a feature film by director Ron Howard, starring Chris Hemsworth, Ben Whishaw, and Cillian Murphy. Advertising for the film points out that the historical story inspired the Moby Dick mythology.\n\nThe film was scheduled for release in the US on December 11, 2015, but was released in major markets like Brazil, Russia, India and 37 other countries, as well as parts of the US, on December 3, 2015 to avoid competition from \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1992406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1992406", "title": "Jazz piano", "text": "Jazz piano\n\nJazz piano is a collective term for the techniques pianists use when playing jazz. The piano has been an integral part of the jazz idiom since its inception, in both solo and ensemble settings. Its role is multifaceted due largely to the instrument's combined melodic and harmonic capabilities. For this reason it is an important tool of jazz musicians and composers for teaching and learning jazz theory and set arrangement, regardless of their main instrument. (By extension the phrase 'jazz piano' can refer to similar techniques on any keyboard instrument.)\n\nAlong with the guitar, vibraphone, and other keyboard instruments, the piano is one of the instruments in a jazz combo that can play both single notes and chords rather than only single notes as does the saxophone or trumpet.\n\nA new style known as “stride” or “Harlem stride” emerged during the 1920s, predominantly in New York. James P. Johnson was a prominent adherent. The left hand was used to establish rhythm while the right hand improvised melodies.\n\nMastering the various chord voicings—simple to advanced—is the first building block of learning jazz piano. Jazz piano technique uses all the chords found in Western art music, such as major, minor, augmented, diminished, seventh, diminished seventh, sixth, minor seventh, major seventh, suspended fourth, and so on. A second key skill is learning to play with a swing rhythm and \"feel\". In jazz, the roots are usually omitted from keyboard voicings, as this task is left to the double bass player. Jazz pianists also make extensive use of chord \"extensions\", such as adding the ninth, eleventh or thirteenth scale degree to the chord. In some cases, these extensions may be \"altered\" i.e. sharpened or flattened, as in the case of a \"sharp 11\" chord.\n\nThe next step is learning to improvise melodic lines using scales and chord tones. This ability is perfected after long experience, including much practice, which internalizes the physical skills of playing and the technical elements of harmony, and it requires a great natural 'ear' for extemporaneous music-making. When jazz pianists improvise, they use the scales, modes, and arpeggios associated with the chords in a tune's chord progression. The approach to improvising has changed since the earliest eras of jazz piano. During the Swing era, many soloists improvised \"by ear\" by embellishing the melody with ornaments and passing notes. However, during the bebop era, the rapid tempo and complicated chord progressions made it increasingly harder to play \"by ear.\" Along with other improvisers, such as saxes and guitar players, bebop-era jazz pianists began to improvise over the chord changes using scales (whole tone scale, chromatic scale, etc.) and arpeggios.\n\nJazz piano (the technique) and the instrument itself offer soloists an exhaustive number of choices. One may play the bass register in an ostinato pattern, popular in boogie-woogie style, where the left hand repeats a phrase numerous times throughout a song, as performed by Rob Agerbeek in \"Boogie Woogie Stomp.\" The left hand can also be played as a melodic counterline that emulates the walking of an upright bass. In stride piano, (similar to the earlier ragtime) the left hand rapidly plays alternate positions between notes in the bass register and chords in the tenor register, while the right hand plays melody and improvises, as performed in George Gershwin's \"Liza\". The right hand may play melodic lines, or harmonic content, chordally or in octaves. It may also be played in lockstep with the left hand, using a double melody block chord called \"locked-hand\" voicing, or Shearing voicing—a technique popularized, though not invented, by the pianist and set leader George Shearing.\n\nJazz piano has played a leading role in developing the sound of jazz. Early on, black jazz musicians created ragtime on the piano. As the genre progressed the piano was usually featured in the rhythm section of a band, which was typically configured as one or more of piano, guitar, bass, or drums, or other instruments, such as the vibraphone.\n\nOver time, playing piano-accompaniment in ensemble sets, and then bands, changed from primarily time-keeping (consisting of repetitive left-hand figures) to a more flexible role. Ultimately, the skilled pianist was free both to lead and to answer the instrumental soloist, using both short and sustained, chordal and melodic, fragments—a technique known as 'comping'. Good comping musicians were capable of many and different chord voicings, so to match the various moods the different soloists were aiming for. In the early days not all leading pianists were concerned to provide comping. Others—notably Duke Ellington, who became famous during the Harlem Renaissance at the Cotton Club—earned great esteem among band members as well as other musicians. Ellington comped enthusiastically in support of the soloist and did much to develop the technique.\n\nJazz piano moved away from playing lead melody to providing foundation for song sets; soon, skilled jazz pianists were performing as soloists. In the 1940s and 1950s, a number of great piano players emerged. Pianists like Thelonious Monk and Bud Powell helped create and establish the sound of bebop. Bill Evans built upon the style of Bud Powell while adding a distinct classical influence to his playing while Oscar Peterson pushed rhythmic variations and was influenced by the style of Art Tatum, Teddy Wilson and Nat King Cole. Wynton Kelly, Red Garland, Herbie Hancock, and Keith Jarrett were also exceptional pianists who played with Miles Davis. Tommy Flanagan was featured by John Coltrane on his hit album \"Giant Steps\". McCoy Tyner is also an influential player who played with Coltrane.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4701806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4701806", "title": "Jennifer Celotta", "text": "Jennifer Celotta\n\nJennifer Ann Celotta (born November 11, 1971 in Gaithersburg, Maryland) is an American television producer and writer. Among her credits are \"Home Improvement\", \"Malcolm in the Middle\", \"The Newsroom\", \"Greg the Bunny\", \"Andy Richter Controls The Universe\" and \"The Office\". She has directed two episodes of \"The Office\": \"Crime Aid\" and \"The Promotion.\" By the fifth season, Celotta was serving as an \"Office\" producer and one of the series show runners, along with fellow writer Paul Lieberstein. Celotta and Lieberstein wrote the fifth season finale \"Company Picnic\", which ended with character Pam Beesly learning she is pregnant.\n\nCelotta and her co-writers on \"The Office\" received Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Comedy Series in 2007, 2008, and 2009 but lost all three years to \"30 Rock\". The team has also received Writers Guild of America Award nominations for Best Comedy Series each year since 2006. They won the award in 2007, but lost in 2006 to \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", and to \"30 Rock\" in 2008 and 2009. Celotta and her \"The Office\" co-writers were also nominated for a WGA in 2006 for Best New Series, but lost to \"Grey's Anatomy\".\n\nCelotta won a WGA Award in the category \"Comedy/Variety – Music, Awards, Tributes – Specials\" in 2009 for co-writing the 2008 Independent Spirit Awards ceremony. She shared the award with fellow co-writers Billy Kimball, Aaron Lee and \"The Office\" co-star Rainn Wilson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1336385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1336385", "title": "Jennifer Kendal", "text": "Jennifer Kendal\n\nJennifer Kapoor (née Kendal, 28 February 1933 – 7 September 1984) was an English actress and the founder of the Prithvi Theatre. She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role for the 1981 film \"36 Chowringhee Lane\". Her other film appearances included \"Bombay Talkie\" (1970), \"Junoon\" (1978), \"Heat and Dust\" (1983), and \"Ghare Baire\" (1984).\n\nJennifer Kendal was born in Southport, England, but spent much of her youth in India. She and younger sister Felicity Kendal were born to Geoffrey Kendal and Laura Liddell, who ran a travelling theatre company, \"Shakespeareana\", which travelled around India as depicted in the book and film, \"Shakespeare Wallah\" (in which Kendal appeared, uncredited, and which starred her husband Shashi Kapoor, her parents and her sister).\n\nShashi Kapoor and Jennifer met for the first time in Calcutta, in 1956, where he was part of the Prithvi Theatre company, while she was playing Miranda in the play \"The Tempest\", as part of Shakespeareana. Soon, Shashi Kapoor started touring with the Shakespeareana Company, and they married in July 1958. Kendal and her husband were also instrumental in the rejuvenation of Prithvi Theatre in Bombay, with the opening of their theatre in the Juhu area of the city in 1978. Kendal and Kapoor also starred in a number of films together, particularly those produced by Merchant Ivory Productions. Their first joint starring roles were in \"Bombay Talkie\" (1970), which was also one of the earlier films produced by Merchant Ivory.\n\nThe Kapoors had three children: sons Kunal Kapoor and Karan Kapoor, and a daughter Sanjana Kapoor, all erstwhile Bollywood actors. Kunal runs ad company \"Adfilms Valas\". Karan Kapoor (b. 18 January 1962) was a popular model made famous by Bombay Dyeing shooting and shirting advertisement, and he also acted in Sultanat (1986) opposite Juhi Chawla as well as later in Loha with Dharmendra. Karan now runs a photography company in UK. Their sister Sanjana Kapoor (b. 27 November 1967) runs ancestral Prithvi Theatre. Kunal was married to filmmaker Ramesh Sippy's daughter Sheena, who is a well known photographer. They had two children together, Shaira and Zahan. Kunal and Sheena are now divorced.\n\nShe was diagnosed with terminal colon cancer in 1982 and died of the disease in 1984.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5318004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5318004", "title": "Kunstformen der Natur", "text": "Kunstformen der Natur\n\nKunstformen der Natur (known in English as Art Forms in Nature) is a book of lithographic and halftone prints by German biologist Ernst Haeckel.\n\nOriginally published in sets of ten between 1899 and 1904 and collectively in two volumes in 1904, it consists of 100 prints of various organisms, many of which were first described by Haeckel himself. Over the course of his career, over 1000 engravings were produced based on Haeckel's sketches and watercolors; many of the best of these were chosen for \"Kunstformen der Natur\", translated from sketch to print by lithographer Adolf Giltsch.\n\nA second edition of \"Kunstformen\", containing only 30 prints, was produced in 1924.\n\nAccording to Haeckel scholar Olaf Breidbach, the work was \"not just a book of illustrations but also the summation of his view of the world.\" The over-riding themes of the \"Kunstformen\" plates are symmetry and level of organization. The subjects were selected to embody these to the full, from the scale patterns of boxfishes to the spirals of ammonites to the perfect symmetries of jellies and microorganisms, while images composing each plate are arranged for maximum visual impact.\n\nAmong the notable prints are numerous radiolarians, which Haeckel helped to popularize among amateur microscopists; at least one example is found in almost every set of 10. Cnidaria also feature prominently throughout the book, including sea anemones as well as Siphonophorae, Semaeostomeae, and other medusae. The first set included \"Desmonema annasethe\" (now \"Cyanea annasethe\"), a particularly striking jellyfish that Haeckel observed and described shortly after the death of his wife Anna Sethe.\n\n\"Kunstformen der Natur\" was influential in early 20th-century art, architecture, and design, bridging the gap between science and art. In particular, many artists associated with Art Nouveau were influenced by Haeckel's images, including René Binet, Karl Blossfeldt, Hans Christiansen, and Émile Gallé. One prominent example is the Amsterdam Commodities Exchange designed by Hendrik Petrus Berlage: it was in part inspired by \"Kunstformen\" illustrations.\n\nHaeckel's original classifications appear in \"italics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48928811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48928811", "title": "LiveSquare Entertainment", "text": "LiveSquare Entertainment\n\nLiveSquare Entertainment is an entertainment company originating from Bangladesh, founded in 2007 by entrepreneur Nafis Ahmed. Its services include festival management, artist management, global bookings and tour management, and production and sale of party lifestyle merchandise and original art creations LiveSquare has organized many festivals featuring local and international artists, and for the deployment of high-profile Bangladeshi artists such as Shironamhin, Chirkutt and Band Lalon to international festivals in Sri Lanka and Norway.\n\nLiveSquare has worked with international cultural entities such as Rikskonsertene: Concerts Norway, Goethe Institute Dhaka and EMK Center, as well as with diplomatic missions such as the Norwegian Embassy and the Embassy of Switzerland in Bangladesh.\n\nInitially started by Nafis Ahmed while he was a student in his sophomore year at IBA-DU, LiveSquare became known with a series of lounge concerts under the banner of The Wireless Sessions featuring bands such as Arbovirus, Shunno, Artcell, Cryptic Fate and Nemesis, in a time when the lounge music scene in Dhaka was in its infancy. LiveSquare also organized and executed several one-off concerts during this time, including a fundraising concert for the victims of the hurricane Cyclone Sidr. LiveSquare went on a year-long hiatus in 2010 following Ahmed's graduation and subsequent employment at a reputed marketing agency.\n\nLiveSquare organized several new events in 2011, such as the tribute concert Titans: Iron Maiden and The ABC Generation series. LiveSquare worked with international entities to bring in international artists to Bangladesh, such as Norwegian-Bangladeshi musician Kohinoor Nordberg, Swiss funk rock band Starch, American guitarist Ken Stringfellow, Norwegian pop rock outfit Casa Murilo, multinational world music ensemble OK World and various others, performing alongside Bangladeshi artists. The Wireless Sessions were also brought back during this time.\n\nLiveSquare sent Bangladeshi artists such as Chirkutt, Shironamhin and Band Lalon to perform at international festivals in Sri Lanka and Norway. In 2013, LiveSquare started the RockNation series of Rock/Metal concerts, starring artists such as Warfaze, Aurthohin, Artcell and Arbovirus.\n\nIn late 2015, LiveSquare organized and hosted the music conference Bangladesh Music Week 2015. The conference featured more than 20 foreign delegates alongside more than two dozen representatives of the Bangladeshi music scene. The event also included a live performance showcase featuring local and foreign musicians and dancers, along with an engineering masterclass for live lighting.\n\nIn February 2016, LiveSquare organized the first show of a new series of concerts called Pop Republic, starring Grammy and Brit Award-winning blue-eyed soul artist Joss Stone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53573771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53573771", "title": "Mercy Falls (book)", "text": "Mercy Falls (book)\n\nMercy Falls is a book written by William Kent Krueger and published by Pocket Books (owned by Simon & Schuster) on 16 August 2005, which later went on to win the Anthony Award for Best Novel in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "25310806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25310806", "title": "Multifaith space", "text": "Multifaith space\n\nA multifaith space or multifaith prayer room is a quiet location set aside in a busy public place (hospital, university, airport, etc.) where people of differing religious beliefs, or none at all, are able to spend time in contemplation or prayer. Many of these spaces are \"small, clean and largely unadorned areas\", which can be adapted and serve for any religious or spiritual practice. Rarely, persons of different faiths may come together in such spaces within the context of multifaith worship services.\n\nThe space may or may not be a dedicated place of worship. A recent research project at the University of Manchester, UK has conceptualised the modern multifaith space as \"an intentional space, designed to both house a plurality of religious practices, as well as address clearly defined pragmatic purposes.\"\n\nThe Manchester University research highlighted two key factors for a multifaith space to work:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22802171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22802171", "title": "My Name Is Alan and I Paint Pictures", "text": "My Name Is Alan and I Paint Pictures\n\nMy Name is Alan, and I Paint Pictures is a 2007 documentary film directed by Johnny Boston. The film stars and is materially about Alan Russell-Cowan, an artist diagnosed with schizophrenia.\n\nThe documentary \"My Name is Alan, and I Paint Pictures\" focuses on Alan Russel-Cowan, a street painter diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, as he works to break his way into the professional art world.\n\nThe film also addresses larger issues which directly or indirectly affect Alan. Subjects addressed include the treatment and diagnosis of Paranoid Schizophrenia; the therapeutic benefits of art for mental illness; and the path to success for artists and the politics of the art establishment.\n\nThe film had an art-house theatrical run in New York and Los Angeles in 2007 and 2008.\n\nMost recently \"My Name is Alan...\" was shown on the Ovation Arts Network in February and May 2009.\n\nThe film has received sparse and varied reviews. \"The Village Voice\" gives a generally negative review, while \"The New York Times\" a positive one.\n\n"}
{"id": "4331743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4331743", "title": "Perchman", "text": "Perchman\n\nThe French perchman is equivalent to the U.S. boom operator in film production, also called the sound assistant or boomer, but differs regarding attributions. The perchman is the production sound mixer's assistant and is in charge of the microphone placement, typically using a light and telescopic pole also called a fish pole or boom. \n\nThus, the perchman places and moves the microphone \"in real time\" in order to pick up the voices of each actor during filming. Being a perchman involves providing the best sound quality possible to the sound mixer while at the same time, not causing shadows or entering the camera frame. To accomplish this, the perchman works in collaboration with the camera operator and the cinematographer (who directs the camera movements and lights the scenes) and the gaffer. Other duties include the hiding of miniature wireless microphones (radio mics) on the actors, the placement of hidden auxiliary microphones, and the controlling of sound reflections by the use of furniture blankets and carpet. He readies the equipment at the beginning of each day and stores the gear when the day is \"wrapped\", or finished. The perchman manages the technical contingencies allowing the production sound mixer to concentrate on the artistic side of sound recording.\n\n"}
{"id": "5266531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5266531", "title": "Peter Schjeldahl", "text": "Peter Schjeldahl\n\nPeter Schjeldahl (; born 1942) is an American art critic, poet, and educator.\n\nSchjeldahl was born in Fargo, North Dakota. He grew up in small towns throughout Minnesota, and attended Carleton College and The New School. He began his professional writing career as a reporter in Minnesota, Iowa and New Jersey.\n\nIn 1964 he traveled to Paris for a year before settling in New York City in 1965. Since coming to New York he has worked as an art critic for \"ARTnews\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Village Voice\" (1990 to 1998), and 7 Days (The Cooper Union). In 1998 he joined \"The New Yorker\" where he is currently the head art critic. His writings have also appeared in Artforum, Art in America, \"The New York Times Magazine\", \"Vogue\", and \"Vanity Fair\". During his career Schjeldahl has written several books of poetry as well as art criticism. He taught at Harvard University in the Department of Visual and Environmental Studies for four years as well.\n\nSchjeldahl’s poetry falls in line with many of the characteristic themes and styles of the New York School. As a contemporary postmodern poet, Schjeldahl believed that poetry should be enjoyed and understood by all readers. In an interview with the Virginia Commonwealth University’s \"Blackbird\" Schjeldahl commented on how \"there are no rewards in being obscure or abstruse or overbearing\"\nHis poetry succeeds without a great deal of complexity in language usage or style while maintaining seriousness and poignancy. Schjeldahl’s poetry often addresses common experiences or familiar events. In his poem “My Generation” he opens: \"Vietnam/ Drugs/ Civil Rights/ Rock/ Watergate/ (in that order?)/ Are the blows of history/ That have left my generation/ Its peculiar battered silhouette.\" Schjeldahl fuels his poetry with historical and biographical context, allowing audiences to relate more intimately to his subject.\nIn an interview with \"Blackbird\", Schjeldahl stated, \"\"writing things that people want to read is my bread and butter\".\"\n\nSchjeldahl was awarded a Guggenheim fellowship in 1995. In 1980 he received the Frank Jewett Mather Award for art criticism by the College Art Association. The Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute named Peter Schjeldahl the winner of the 2008 Clark Prize for Excellence in Arts Writing. The prize was established in 2006 to recognize writers who advance public appreciation of visual art in a way that \"is grounded in scholarship yet appeals to a broad range of audiences.\" It comes with a $25,000 honorarium and an award designed by architect Tadao Ando.\n\nCarleton College bestowed an honorary degree, a Doctor of Humane Letters, \"honoris causa\", to Schjeldahl as part of their commencement exercises on June 13, 2015.\n\nSchjeldahl currently resides in New York. He is married to Donnie Brooke Alderson, a former actress. They have one child, Ada Calhoun Schjeldahl, who writes under the name Ada Calhoun.\n\n"}
{"id": "39167775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39167775", "title": "Pitalkhora", "text": "Pitalkhora\n\nThe Pitalkhora Caves, in the Satamala range of the Western Ghats of Maharashtra, India, are an ancient Buddhist site consisting of 14 rock-cut cave monuments which date back to the third century BCE, making them one of the earliest examples of rock-cut architecture in India. Located about 40 kilometers from Ellora, the site is reached by a steep climb down a flight of concrete stairs, past a waterfall next to the caves.\n\nThe caves are cut in a variety of basalt rock, but some of the caves have crumbled and are damaged. Out of the 14, four are chaityas (one housing votive stupas, one apsidal and single-cell) and the rest are viharas. All the caves belong to the Hinayana period, but the reasonably well preserved paintings are of the Mahayana period. The caves are in two groups, one of 10 caves and the second of four. It is believed that Pitalkhora can be identified with Ptolemy’s \"Petrigala\" as well as the \"Pitangalya\" of \"Mahamayuri\", a Buddhist chronicle. The inscriptions date from c. 250 BCE to the 3rd and 4th centuries CE.\n\nThe site shows statues of elephants, two soldiers of which one is intact, a damaged Gaja Lakshmi icon, and an ancient rainwater harvesting system. These caves have been significant in helping establish the chronology of cave building in the Ajanta-Ellora region.\n\nThe Chaitya hall, Cave 3 of Pitalkhora, represents an important marker in the chronology of the Chaitya hall design in western India. It is thought that the chronology of these early Chaitya Caves is as follows: first, in the 1st century BCE, Cave 9 at Kondivite Caves and then Cave 12 at the Bhaja Caves, which both predate Cave 10 of Ajanta. Then, after Cave 10 of Ajanta, in chronological order: Cave 3 at Pitalkhora, Cave 1 at Kondana Caves, Cave 9 at Ajanta, which, with its more ornate designs, may have been built about a century later, Cave 18 at Nasik Caves, and Cave 7 at Bedse Caves, to finally culminate with the \"final perfection\" of the Great Chaitya at Karla Caves.\n\n"}
{"id": "3638345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3638345", "title": "Poetry Society", "text": "Poetry Society\n\nThe Poetry Society is a membership organisation, open to all, whose stated aim is \"to promote the study, use and enjoyment of poetry\".\n\nThe Society was founded in London in February 1909 as the Poetry Recital Society, becoming the Poetry Society in 1912. Its first President was Lady Margaret Sackville. \n\nFrom its current Covent Garden, London, premises, The Poetry Society publishes \"Poetry Review\", Britain's leading poetry magazine, which provides a forum for poems from both new and established poets. Its current Editor is the poet Emily Berry, who succeeded Maurice Riordan in 2017. The magazine's editor from 2005 to 2012 was Fiona Sampson.\n\nThe Society organises several competitions, including the British National Poetry Competition, the Foyle Young Poets of the Year Award, The Popescu Prize, The Ted Hughes Award for New Work in Poetry and the Geoffrey Dearmer Award. The society also ran the Alice Hunt Bartlett Prize from 1986 to 1997.\n\nThere is a Poetry Café on its Ground Floor, and performance space in the basement, rooms being available for hire.\n"}
{"id": "36369060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36369060", "title": "Reveal (narrative)", "text": "Reveal (narrative)\n\nThe reveal (also known as the big reveal) is a plot device in narrative structure, and is the exposure to the reader or audience of a previously unseen key character or element of plot or of the performance.\n\nA reveal is different from Aristotle's \"anagnorisis\", in which something is revealed to a character rather than to the audience.\n\nThe reveal may result in a plot twist, and could be the key plot turn or unexpected coda in the story – in the mystery genre, for example. It may also be used as a device (particularly in the climax) in stage magic by an illusionist or escape artist.\n\nIn a magician's act, \"the reveal\" may refer to\n\n\"Reveal\" is also used for two distinct cinematographic techniques:\n\nIn the sense of first-time showing of a character, a \"reveal\" is similar to, but usually not same as, the opening shot or Establishing shot that gives the location or context of a new scene.\n"}
{"id": "271025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271025", "title": "Screen test", "text": "Screen test\n\nA screen test is a method of determining the suitability of an actor or actress for performing on film or in a particular role. The performer is generally given a scene, or selected lines and actions, and instructed to perform in front of a camera to see if they are suitable. The developed film is later evaluated by the relevant production personnel such as the casting director and the director. The actor may be asked to bring a prepared monologue or alternatively, the actor may be given a script to read at sight (\"cold reading\"). In some cases, the actor may be asked to read a scene, in which another performer reads the lines of another character.\n\nScreen tests can also be used to judge the suitability of costume, make-up and other details, but these are generally called costume or make-up tests. Different types of actors can have different tasks for each individual test. For example, a lead for a musical theater-type movie could be requested to sing a popular song or learn a dance routine. Screen tests are routinely used in films and commercials. They are also used for short films.\n\nInternational actors such as Bruce Lee were given screen tests to demonstrate that they are sufficiently articulate in the relevant language. In Lee's case, for the role of Kato in \"The Green Hornet\", he was asked to converse about Chinese culture in English to judge his grasp of the language, then to demonstrate some martial arts moves to show off his physical skills.\n\n"}
{"id": "5163519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5163519", "title": "Studio executive", "text": "Studio executive\n\nThe studio executive is an employee of a film studio or a corporation doing business in the entertainment industry.\n\nA studio executive may be a Chief executive officer, a Chief financial officer, a Chief operating officer, or be employed to serve in a variety of Vice presidential capacities, such as Senior vice president of corporate relations.\n\nA studio executive may oversee production or may serve in a role identical to a corporation that is not involved in the entertainment industry.\n\nStudio executive is commonly used to describe someone who takes responsibility for all interests, financial or otherwise, between the film studio and the production company of a film.\n"}
{"id": "34000502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34000502", "title": "Study of a Kneeling Nude Girl for The Entombment", "text": "Study of a Kneeling Nude Girl for The Entombment\n\nStudy of a Kneeling Nude Girl for The Entombment is a drawing of c. 1500–1501 by Michelangelo, now in the Louvre Museum. It is in black chalk, with pen and ink and white highlighting, on pink prepared (coloured) paper, and measures 26.6 cm x 15.1 cm. It is a figure study made in preparation for his painting \"The Entombment\", and is Michelangelo's only surviving study that was probably drawn from a nude female model. It also may be the earliest extant European drawing of a nude female model.\n\nThe figure in the drawing relates to a woman seated in the lower left foreground of the painting. Included in the study are narrative details such as the nails of the cross, held in her left hand, and the crown of thorns in her right. Although the drawing's attribution has been doubted, it is now accepted as authentic. The elaboration of the plaited hair suggests that the drawing was made from life using a young girl as the model. The drawing was made in three stages: first it was lightly laid down in black chalk, then gone over with pen and light bistre, and finally drawn over completely with a finer pen and darker ink. Lateral strokes were placed at the bottom to indicate the ground plane, and touches of white body color were added to details of the figure. Rare for a drawing by Michelangelo is the pink ground, in this case achieved by rubbing crushed red chalk onto the paper.\n\nBecause the use of nude female models was controversial, relatively few such drawings were made before the 17th century, when academic life classes were established. Before that boys or young men, typically studio apprentices, were used as models for figures of both sexes, as is sometimes rather apparent. Exceptions from the Italian Renaissance include Raphael, who made nude drawings, apparently of his mistress, and Lorenzo Lotto, who recorded in his account book having used women of ill repute as life models. In Florence, Michelangelo and Raphael initiated the practice of making preparatory studies of the nude prior to painting the figure fully clothed, in order to better understand the underlying structure of the body.\n\n"}
{"id": "49133811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49133811", "title": "Tess Morris", "text": "Tess Morris\n\nTessa Jo Morris (born April 1977) is a British screenwriter. She was named one of BAFTA's Breakthrough Brits of 2015 after her success writing the romantic comedy \"Man Up\". She co-hosts the romantic-comedy focused podcast \"You Had Us At Hello\", and currently writes on Hulu's \"Casual\". She has been referred to as a \"key voice standing up for the romantic comedy genre\".\n\nMorris was born and raised in Wandsworth, London.\n\nShe attended university in South London where she completed a TV and Film degree. In 1997, while she was still in university, Morris wrote a short film titled \"Beer Goggles\". The short was directed by David Mackenzie as part of the Lloyds Bank/Channel Four Film Challenge. Her team's film won first place and was broadcast on Channel 4.\n\nAfter university, Morris became a journalist for teen news publishers where she regularly interviewed the cast of \"Hollyoaks\", a British soap opera. After hearing of scriptwriting job opportunities, Morris became a writer for \"Hollyoaks\" at the age of 23. She wrote 18 episodes over the following two years, gaining a reputation on the show for her comedic scripts.\n\nLooking for work outside \"Hollyoaks\", Morris wrote a pilot for a sitcom based on her relationship with her Jewish grandmother titled \"Granny and Annie,\" but had no luck in getting it made. However, this pilot did get Morris noticed by the UK production company DLT Entertainment, who then hired her to write for their sitcom, \"My Family\". After writing for one season of \"My Family\", Morris spent a few years writing several spec scripts with different co-writers but never managed to sell any of them.\n\nAfter struggling to sell her TV spec scripts, Morris got a job as a script reader for the BFI and Film4. During this time, she co-produced a short film called \"Rise of the Appliances\" with producer Richard Holmes. Morris claims she began to miss screenwriting and, based on some of the BFI script submissions she deemed were bad, she decided she would be able to write her own feature script. After a break-up, Morris moved back in with her parents and promised them that if her feature script did not get picked up, she would find a \"proper job\". In 2008, she was chosen for the BFI/Skillset Think Shoot Distribute Scheme for emerging talent in the British film industry.\n\nMorris came up with the premise for her feature, \"Man Up,\" when she was approached by a stranger at Waterloo Station who asked her if she was his blind date, which made her wonder what may have happened if she had lied and told him yes.\n\nShe began writing \"Man Up\" in January 2011. Her inspirations for this film were Nora Ephron, Woody Allen and Nancy Meyers. The films which inspired her the most are \"When Harry Met Sally\", \"Moonstruck\" and \"As Good as it Gets\". To help her build the cinematic structure, Morris read Billy Mernit's book, \"Writing for the Romantic Comedy\". Morris finished the spec script in three months then submitted it to Big Talk Productions who optioned it.\n\nMan Up was directed by Ben Palmer, and starred Simon Pegg and Lake Bell. It was released in May 2015.\n\nSince the release of \"Man Up\", Morris has continued to work with Big Talk. She is writing a romantic comedy for Big Talk and BBC Films as well as a TV pilot for Lucky Giant and NBC.\n\nMorris and Mernit host the romantic comedy-focused podcast \"You Had Us At Hello\".\n\nIn 2017, she joined the writing staff of Hulu's comedy-drama series \"Casual\".\n\n"}
{"id": "38227046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38227046", "title": "The Artist and the Model", "text": "The Artist and the Model\n\nThe Artist and the Model (French: \"L'artiste et son modèle\") is a 2012 French-language Spanish drama film directed by Fernando Trueba and written by Trueba and Jean-Claude Carrière. In 2012, Fernando Trueba was nominated for the Golden Shell and won the Silver Shell for Best Director at the San Sebastián International Film Festival. The year after, the film was nominated for 13 categories in the 27th Goya Awards, including Best Film and Best Director.\n\nIn the summer of 1943 in occupied France, a famous sculptor, tired of life, finds a desire to return to work with the arrival of a young Spanish woman who has escaped from a refugee camp and becomes his muse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23335172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23335172", "title": "The Back-up Plan", "text": "The Back-up Plan\n\nThe Back-up Plan (previously known as Plan B) is a 2010 American romantic comedy film, starring Jennifer Lopez and Alex O'Loughlin. It was released theatrically in the U.S. on April 23, 2010, and later in other regions. This was Tom Bosley's final acting role before his death in October that year.\n\nZoe (Jennifer Lopez) gives up on finding the man of her dreams, decides to become a single mother and undergoes artificial insemination. The same day she meets Stan (Alex O'Loughlin) when they both try to hail the same taxi. They run into each other twice more at a farmers market and a pet store. Stan convinces Zoe to go on a no-obligations date. Zoe is still uncertain whether she is pregnant or not and if she should tell Stan. The night she takes the test, Stan takes her for a romantic dinner in a garden. Things don't turn out as well as planned when he spills the wine and a fire occurs. At the end of the night Stan asks her to come to his farm during the weekend and Zoe finds out that she is pregnant.\n\nShe goes to the farm determined to tell him that she is pregnant. They have sex and afterwards Stan is confused and angry that she didn't tell him before and Zoe leaves the next morning believing that things are over between them. However, Stan decides he still wants to be with her and they reconcile. They go to the doctor and find out that Zoe is actually carrying twins. Overwhelmed, Stan goes to a children's playing area to figure out what it means to be a father, but is suspected to be a pervert; this is soon cleared up. He finds a friend there that he can talk to about the pregnancy throughout the movie, while Zoe gets little support from her Single Mothers and Proud group when the group members discover she is no longer single. Stan takes the next step to becoming a father and orders a stroller for the twins. After many misunderstandings and comedic revelations, Zoe and Stan are walking into the Market when they run into Stan's ex-girlfriend. Due to Stan's remark that the twins are not his, Zoe believes that he is not ready to become a father to them, and breaks off the relationship.\n\nLater, the stroller that Stan ordered arrives and Zoe figures out that Stan was never planning to leave. At her grandmother's wedding, Zoe's water breaks and on the way to the hospital they make a pit stop at the Market. Zoe apologizes to Stan and they begin to work things out. He pulls out the penny that she turned over when they first met and Zoe promises to trust him more. Zoe gives birth to twin girls, one of whom they name Penny. In the end, Stan opens a store/restaurant next to Zoe's pet shop and after the Grand Opening speech Stan asks Zoe to marry him and she says yes. On their way home, she spontaneously throws up into a trash can and realizes that she may be yet again pregnant.\n\nThe film, originally titled \"Plan B\", was written by Kate Angelo and produced by Todd Black, Jason Blumenthal and Steve Tisch. Lopez's casting was announced in December 2008 by multiple sources. Digital Spy announced in February 2009 that Alan Poul was in \"final talks\" to direct \"Plan B\", which would be his first feature film. On April 8, 2009, \"The Arizona Republic\" reported that O'Loughlin was \"in negotiations to nab the romantic male lead\". \"The Back-up Plan\" was Lopez's first film in three years, and she confessed to feeling \"really nervous\". Filming began on May 11, 2009, in Los Angeles, California. The film was also filmed in Pasadena, California where Lopez was spotted wearing her prosthetic pregnancy belly. The film's production budget was $35 million.\n\nThe soundtrack and the score were released on March 26, 2010 on iTunes. They are available on Amazon.com since April 13, 2010. The soundtrack has various artists, while the score was composed entirely by Stephen Trask.\n\nThe film's score was composed by Stephen Trask.\n\nThe film was moderately a box office success. \"The Back-up Plan\" earned $4,257,676 in 3,280 theaters on its Friday debut, but managed to make #1 at the box office. It dropped to #2 at the weekend box office with a gross of $12,201,710, averaging $3,720 per theater. In its 2nd week it dropped to #4 with $7,255,762, averaging $2,212 per theater. In its 3rd week the film dropped to #5 grossing $5,033,471, averaging $1,676 per theater. The following week it dropped to #6 grossing $2,387,480, averaging $956 per theater. As of July 14, it had grossed $77,237,270 worldwide, and is CBS Films' highest-grossing film to date. \"The Back-up Plan\" reached #1 on Top Ten Hot Movies On Demand.\n\nThe film received negative reviews from critics, with most critics panning the script, but reacting positively to Lopez's performance. Rotten Tomatoes reported that 18% of critics gave the film positive reviews based on 145 reviews with an average score of 3.6/10. Its consensus states \"Jennifer Lopez is as appealing as ever, but \"The Back-up Plan\" smothers its star with unrelatable characters and a predictable plot.\" Another review aggretator, Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average from 0 to 100 on top reviews of mainstream critics, gave the film an average score of 34% based on 32 reviews.\n\nKirk Honeycutt of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" gave the film a positive review saying, \"A winning performance by Jennifer Lopez overcomes a formulaic and predictable rom-com that involves a planned pregnancy.\" \"The New York Times\" film critic Manohla Dargis wrote that the film is \"not very good\" and \"bland\". Amy Biancolli of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" praised the cast in her review writing \"Lopez does a fine job mortifying herself in pursuit of physical humor, shifting her center of gravity in more ways than one. O'Loughlin, in the blander role, acts hurt or shocked or besotted where required, but the supporting players nearly steal the show.\" \"Chicago Sun-Times\" film critic Roger Ebert gave the film 1/4 stars, claiming the film \"plays like an unendurable TV commercial about beautiful people with great lifestyles and not a thought in their empty little heads.\"\n\nJennifer Lopez received 2 nominations for Best Romantic Comedy Actress and Best Romantic Comedy for The Back-Up Plan at the Teen Choice Awards.\n\n\"The Back-up Plan\" was released on August 24, 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray and sold 277,183 ( $4.7 million) copies in its first week of release debuting at #2 on the charts behind the sixth season of \"Lost\". \"The Back-up Plan\" also ranked #1 at both the Top 10 Renting DVD Titles and Top 10 Selling DVD Titles at U.S. BLOCKBUSTER stores, as well as #1 at the Top 10 Online Renting DVD Titles at Blockbuster.com. #3 at Top 10 Renting Blu-ray Titles at U.S. BLOCKBUSTER stores, #1 at Top 10 Selling Digital Titles on BLOCKBUSTER On Demand. \"The Back-up Plan\" also reached #1 on Top Movie Sales on iTunes.\n\n"}
{"id": "23005715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23005715", "title": "The Princess and the Marine", "text": "The Princess and the Marine\n\nThe Princess and the Marine is a 2001 American made-for-television romantic movie based on the true story of American Marine Jason Johnson and Bahrain Princess Meriam Al-Khalifa, with stars Mark-Paul Gosselaar and Marisol Nichols in the roles of Jason and Meriam.\n\nMeriam Al Khalifa (Marisol Nichols) is a Bahraini royal who is not content to be in an arranged marriage, even though her strict Muslim parents would never allow a union with a non-Muslim. In the movie, Meriam is allowed to go to the local mall and watch and listen to American pop culture.\n\nOne day, she desperately makes some random calls to strangers, including a Marine stationed at the U.S. embassy named Jason Johnson (Mark-Paul Gosselaar). After meeting, the two become friends and later fall in love, but Meriam doesn't tell anyone because of her parents. After being caught kissing at the Tree of Life, her mother forbids any more contact between the two. Meriam and Jason exchange letters with the help of a jeweler in the mall, and plan to run away to America with a fake passport for Meriam and pass her off as a fellow Marine.\n\nOnce in America, Meriam is taken in by the local authorities for being an illegal immigrant and is separated from Jason. Meriam is released after asking for asylum, saying she'd be disowned or even killed if she returned to Bahrain. Meriam and Jason marry in Las Vegas, and he is stripped of his insignia and rank to Private in the Marines.\n\nThe film concludes with Meriam and Jason stationed at a base, looking outside at an American flag, while a Marine holding a copy of the Quran salutes. It is then that Meriam tells Jason that this is what she believes in (America - freedom).\n\n\nMarisol Nichols was nominated for ALMA Awards-Outstanding Actress for her role in this movie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8340564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8340564", "title": "TheatreWorksUSA", "text": "TheatreWorksUSA\n\nTheatreworks USA is a professional, not-for-profit theatre for young and family audiences founded in 1961. The company is based out of New York City, but has touring productions that run through forty-nine states as well as parts of Canada. Plays and musicals produced by Theatreworks have reached over 90 million children, teachers and families since the company's founding.\n\nSince 1989 Theatreworks USA's Free Summer Theatre has provided young people and families with original, professional theatre free of charge. Each summer, tickets are distributed to children in over 200 social service and youth programs throughout the five boroughs. To date, over 300,000 children have attended free productions of some of the company's most popular shows, including \"Junie B. Jones\", \"Romeo and Juliet\", and \"Sarah, Plain and Tall\". According to its own literature, Theatreworks believes \"all children should experience the excitement of going to the theatre, regardless of their financial circumstances.\" Roma Torre, a NY1 reporter, has said the following of the program:\n\nTheatreworks USA's production of \"The Civil War\" made its Off-Broadway debut at the Lucille Lortel Theatre for the 2013 Free Summer Theatre program. \"The Civil War\" ran from July 15, 2013 until August 16, 2013.\n\nIn addition to their plays and musicals, Theatreworks USA offers educational presentations by artists and groups, for school and public performances. Included are historical productions, as well as stories, songs and dance from many cultures featuring authentic artists who entertain as well as teach about their traditions.\n\nTheatreworks has a history of giving young actors, writers, directors, and designers their first professional break. Amongst the alumni are four-time Tony Award winning director Jerry Zaks, Robert Jess Roth (\"Beauty and the Beast\"), Michael Mayer (\"Thoroughly Modern Millie\"), Gabriel Barre; writers Marta Kauffman and David Crane (TV's \"Friends\"), Lynn Ahrens and Stephen Flaherty (\"Ragtime\", \"Once on This Island\"), Jason Robert Brown (\"Parade\"), Larry O'Keefe (\"\"), Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx (\"Avenue Q\"); Kristen Anderson-Lopez (Disney's \"Frozen\", with Lopez); and Tony-winning actors Roger Bart, Chuck Cooper, John Lloyd Young, and John Glover. Esteemed performers Jesse Tyler Ferguson, F. Murray Abraham, Daphne Rubin-Vega, Henry Winkler, Kathryn Boule and Judy Kuhn also got their start with Theatreworks.\n\nTheatreworks has won many awards in its long history. Some of these honors include:\n\n\nIn 2000, Theatreworks established Chelsea Studios, a rehearsal studio in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. In addition to providing a rehearsal space for Theatreworks's productions, Chelsea also rents its studios out to casting agents, touring productions, exercise classes, and various other clients.\n\n"}
{"id": "1168199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168199", "title": "Theatre Royal, Newcastle", "text": "Theatre Royal, Newcastle\n\nThe Theatre Royal is a historic theatre, a Grade I listed building situated on Grey Street in Newcastle upon Tyne.\n\nThe theatre was designed by local architects John and Benjamin Green as part of Richard Grainger's grand design for the centre of Newcastle, and was opened on 20 February 1837 with a performance of \"The Merchant of Venice\". One of the first managers here was Thomas Ternan who employed his wife, Frances Ternan as the main actress.\n\nThe shareholders of the Proprietors` Committee appointed lessees to manage and programme the theatre. The longest running individual lessee, before Ltd companies, was Edward D Davis from 1845 to 1870 during which in 1867 the interior was redesigned by architect Charles J. Phipps. William Glover and George Francis, both of the Theatre Royal, Glasgow took over from 1871 to 1878; to be followed by Charles Bernard of the Gaiety Theatre, Glasgow until 1882. James Howard and Fred Wyndham of Edinburgh and Glasgow became lessees from 1883 to 1887. Due to their intention, carried out, of also leasing the Tyne Theatre and Opera House, the shareholder committee did not renew their lease of the Royal. \n\nInstead, Robert Arthur of Glasgow and now lessee of Her Majesty`s Theatre, Dundee took over in 1888. After the fire of 1899 he instructed architect Frank Matcham to totally redesign the interior, re-opening in 1901. The venues of Robert Arthur Theatres Ltd in Scotland and England, which had many shareholders in Tyneside, prospered until losses overwhelmed the company in 1911. At this point the Arthur shareholders, led by the family of Joseph Cowen MP, appointed a new chairman of the lessee company, Michael Simons, of Glasgow, who in 1895 had created Howard & Wyndham Ltd. \nFrom 1912 onwards the Theatre Royal Newcastle was an important part of the Howard & Wyndham group, led successfully by chairman Simons, followed by the Cruikshank family, whose King's Theatre, Edinburgh joined the group in 1928. Newcastle City Council took over ownership in 1967. \n\nNewcastle, Glasgow and Edinburgh formed a triangle of industry, commerce and entertainment business from the 1870s onwards. From 1962 and increasingly from the 1970s the interchange of shows and pantomimes was joined by tours each year of Scottish Opera and of Scottish Ballet. Opera North joined in.\nFollowing a performance of William Shakespeare's play \"Macbeth\", a huge fire destroyed the interior of the building in 1899. It had its interior redesigned by Frank Matcham and reopened on 31 December 1901. Externally, the building is exactly as it was when it was first built.\n\nIt underwent a major refurbishment and restoration in the latter part of the 1980s, reopening on 11 January 1988 with a performance of \"A Man For All Seasons\" starring Charlton Heston.\n\nThe Theatre Royal went dark on 14 March 2011 due to a major restoration of the auditorium, box office, bars and restaurant. The restoration restored the theatre to the original 1901 Frank Matcham Edwardian interior. The whole interior was stripped apart from the original plasterwork which was carefully preserved. The proscenium arch, tiers and boxes were gold leafed and the plasterwork restored. On all levels the seats were replaced with Edwardian-style theatre seats in keeping with the restoration. The amphitheatre which was removed during previous renovations was restored to offer more leg room and better views than the gallery. This took the theatre to five distinct seating areas, the stalls, grand circle, upper circle, amphitheatre and gallery. Wheelchair spaces were installed on levels which had previously been inaccessible. As well as the boxes near the stage, boxes at the rear of the grand and upper circles were also restored taking the total number of boxes up to ten. The stage lift and orchestra pit were replaced to offer better facilities for opera and musicals. A new ventilation system was put in place to improve comfort levels in the theatre. New frescos for the lobby and upper circle were commissioned and put in place. This £4.75m project introduced higher standards of comfort and improved energy. The Theatre Royal reopened on 12 September 2011 with Alan Bennett’s epic period drama \"The Madness of George III\"; George III was in fact the monarch who gave the Theatre Royal its charter.\n\nThe theatre currently hosts a variety of shows, including ballet, contemporary dance, drama, musicals and opera.The Christmas pantomime is one of the UK's most popular.\n\nAlmost all of the shows that come to the Theatre Royal are part of national British tours, and in a typical year the theatre will have 30 to 35 visiting shows. For the annual pantomime, and any visiting musicals and opera performances, there is a sizeable orchestra pit available which can seat 60 musicians if necessary. The stage itself is also of substantial size, and can house 50 singers, dancers, actors and musicians.\n\nNewcastle's original Theatre Royal opened on 21 January 1788. Its location on Mosley Street obstructed plans for the redevelopment of the city centre (as it was on the route of Grey Street), so it was demolished to make way for the present building. One of the theatre's most successful managers at this time was Stephen Kemble of the famous Kemble family, who managed the theatre from 1791 to 1806. The original theatre's final performance was on 25 June 1836.\n\nThe current theatre has a proscenium stage, and accommodates a variable orchestra pit on 2 lifts - which reduces the stall seating. The audience is seated on four levels: stalls (501), grand circle (252), upper circle (249) and gallery (247).\n\nProject A is a one-year actor training programme led by an artistic director and supported by leading industry specialists. Delivered from within the Theatre Royal over an academic year (3 terms) participants gain professional standard actor training culminating in a production term to be performed in the Studio Theatre and toured nationally.\n\nThe course started in September 2015 with the first year free for the successful actors. The programme is seen as an alternative to drama school and is expected to lift the actors involved into the industry.\n\nThe Royal Shakespeare Company have very strong ties to the theatre and are involved with the programme heavily in the second term.\n\n"}
{"id": "9537900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9537900", "title": "Time Transfixed", "text": "Time Transfixed\n\nTime Transfixed (La Durée poignardée) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. It is part of the permanent collection of the Art Institute of Chicago and is usually on display in the museum's new Modern Wing.\n\nThe painting was one of many done for surrealist patron and Magritte supporter Edward James. This was the second painting delivered to James for his London ballroom. The first was the portrait of James, \"Not to be Reproduced\". \"Time Transfixed\" was purchased by the Art Institute from James in 1970 when he was raising capital to build his surrealist sculpture garden Las Pozas.\n\nThe painting depicts an LMS 4-6-0 Locomotive jutting out of a fireplace, at full steam, in an empty room. Above the mantelpiece is a tall mirror. Only the clock and one candlestick standing on the mantelpiece are reflected in the mirror.\n\nThe title of the painting translates to English literally as Ongoing Time Stabbed by a Dagger, and Magritte was reportedly unhappy with the generally accepted translation of \"Time Transfixed\". Magritte hoped that James would hang the painting at the base of his staircase so that the train would \"stab\" guests on their way up to the ballroom. James instead chose to hang the painting above his own fireplace.\n\nMagritte described his motivation for this painting:\n"}
{"id": "7348259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7348259", "title": "Waterlow and Sons", "text": "Waterlow and Sons\n\nWaterlow and Sons Limited was a major worldwide engraver of currency, postage stamps, stocks and bond certificates based in London, Watford and Dunstable in England. The company was founded as a family business in 1810. It was acquired in 1961 by De La Rue.\n\nWaterlow and Sons originated from the business of James Waterlow, who began producing lithographic copies of legal documents at Birchin Lane in London in 1810. The company gradually grew; it began printing stamps in 1852, and Waterlow' sons Alfred, Walter, Sydney and Albert joined the business. James Waterlow died in 1876, and the company became a limited-liability company. In 1877, due to a family dispute, the company split, and Alfred and his sons formed Waterlow Bros. & Layton. The two companies later reunited in 1920.\n\nIn 1924, the company printed 1, 5 and 10 toman banknotes that bore the watermark of Lion and Sun for the first time.\n\nWaterlow's was involved in the Portuguese Bank Note Crisis of 1925. The Banco de Portugal sued Waterlow & Sons in the High Court in London because of counterfeiting. In one of the most complex trials in legal history, the case was finally settled in favour of the Bank in 1932.\n\nIn 1921 the Bank of England gained a legal monopoly on the issue of banknotes in England and Wales, a process that started with the Bank Charter Act of 1844 when the ability of other banks to issues notes was restricted.\n\nOn 22 November 1928 the Bank issued notes for ten shillings and one pound for the first time when the Bank took over responsibility for these denominations from the Treasury which had issued notes of these denominations three days after the declaration of war in 1914 in order to remove gold coins from circulation. The treasury bills had been printed by Waterlows, and the loss of the contract contributed to the closure of Waterlow's operations at Milton Street in Watford.\n\nWaterlow's was acquired by Purnell and Sons in 1961, but Purnell sold Waterlow's segment that printed banknotes, postage stamps, traveler's checks, and bonds to De La Rue soon after.\n\nIn 2003 De La Rue acquired the banknote printing operations of the Bank of England, 75 years after Waterlow's had lost the business.\n\nWaterlow and Sons Ltd was dissolved in January 2009.\n\n\n"}
