{"id": "27410343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27410343", "title": "Academia.edu", "text": "Academia.edu\n\nAcademia.edu is an American social networking website for academics. The platform can be used to share papers, monitor their impact, and follow the research in a particular field. It was launched in September 2008, with 36 million unique visitors per month as of December 2017 and over 20 million uploaded texts. Academia.edu was founded by Richard Price, who raised $600,000 from Spark Ventures, HOWZAT Partners, Brent Hoberman, and others.\n\nThe website allows its users to create a profile, upload their work(s), select areas of interests and then the user can browse the networks of people with similar interests among the almost, as of December 2017, 58 million users from around the world.\n\nAcademia.edu's competitors include ResearchGate, Google Scholar and Mendeley. Compared to ResearchGate, in 2016 Academia.edu reportedly had more registered users (about 34 million versus 11 million) and higher web traffic, but ResearchGate was substantially larger in terms of active usage by researchers. The fact that ResearchGate restricts its user accounts to people at recognized institutions and published researchers may explain the disparity in active usage, as a high percentage of the accounts on Academia.edu are lapsed or inactive.\n\nAcademia.edu claims it supports the open science or open access movements and, in particular, instant distribution of research, and a peer-review system that occurs alongside distribution, instead of prior to it. Accordingly, the company stated its opposition to the proposed (since withdrawn) 2011 U.S. Research Works Act, which would have prevented open-access mandates in the U.S.\n\nHowever, Academia.edu is not an open access repository and is not recommended as a way to pursue green open access by Peter Suber and experts, who instead invite researchers to use field-specific repositories or general-purpose repositories like Zenodo.\n\nAcademia.edu is not a university or institution for higher learning and so under current standards it would not qualify for the \".edu\" top-level domain. However, the domain name \"Academia.edu\" was registered in 1999, prior to the regulations requiring .edu domain names to be held solely by accredited post-secondary institutions. All .edu domain names registered prior to 2001 were grandfathered in, even if not an accredited post-secondary institution.\n\nA critic, Kathleen Fitzpatrick, the Director of Scholarly Communication at the Modern Language Association, said she finds the use of the \".edu\" domain name by Academia.edu to be \"extremely problematic\", since the domain name might mislead users into thinking the site is part of an accredited educational institution rather than a for-profit company.\n\nOn its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company uses the legal name Academia Inc.\n\nIn November 2011, Academia.edu raised $4.5 million from Spark Capital and True Ventures. Prior to that, it had raised $2.2 million from Spark Ventures and a range of angel investors including Mark Shuttleworth, Thomas Lehrman, and Rupert Pennant-Rea. In September 2013, the company raised $11.1 million from Khosla Ventures, True Ventures, Spark Ventures, Spark Capital and Rupert Pennant-Ream, bringing its total equity funding to $17.7 million.\n\nMany academics are happy about the increased publicity their research can garner due to the website, but some are worried about the effect on research and science in general, especially since Academia.edu refuses to make its business model public. \"TechCrunch\" remarked that Academia.edu gives academics a \"powerful, efficient way to distribute their research\" and that it \"will let researchers keep tabs on how many people are reading their articles with specialized analytics tools\", and \"also does very well in Google search results\".\nAcademia.edu seems to reflect a combination of social networking norms and academic norms.\n\nMonths after its acquisition of Academia.edu rival Mendeley, Elsevier sent thousands of takedown notices to Academia.edu, a practice that has since ceased, following widespread complaint by academics, according to Academia.edu founder and chief executive Richard Price.\n\nIn early 2016, some users reported having received e-mails from Academia.edu where they were asked if they would be interested in paying a fee to have their papers recommended by the website's editors. This led some users to start a campaign encouraging users to cancel their Academia.edu accounts.\n\nOther criticisms include the fact that Academia.edu uses a \"vendor lock-in\" model: \"It's up to Academia.edu to decide what you can and can't do with the information you've given them, and they're not likely to make it easy for alternative methods to access\". This is in reference to the fact that, although papers can be read by non-users, a free account is needed in order to download papers: \"you need to be logged in to do most of the useful things on the site (even as a casual reader)\".\n\nA registered user, in order to use advanced search on the site and several other functions, needs to subscribe to premium ($100- per year, or $10- per month) as explained on the site when using basic title search. \n\nIn December 2016, Academia.edu announced new premium features that includes data analytics on work and the professional rank of the viewers, which have also received criticism.\n"}
{"id": "32808843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32808843", "title": "Albert T. Corbett", "text": "Albert T. Corbett\n\nAlbert T. Corbett is an associate research professor emeritus of human–computer interaction at Carnegie Mellon University. He is widely known for his role in the development of the Cognitive Tutor software, leading to one article with over 1,000 citations. Along with John Robert Anderson, he developed the Bayesian Knowledge Tracing algorithm, which is used in Cognitive Tutor software. This work has been particularly influential in the educational data mining community—over half of the EDM conference papers published in 2011 and 2012 cited Bayesian Knowledge-Tracing.\nCorbett studied psychology at Brown University, and obtained a doctorate in psychology from the University of Oregon. His doctoral advisor was Wayne Wickelgren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11335091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11335091", "title": "Architects' Registration Council of the United Kingdom", "text": "Architects' Registration Council of the United Kingdom\n\nUnder an Act passed by the UK Parliament in 1931, there was established an Architects' Registration Council of the United Kingdom (ARCUK), referred to in the Act as \"the Council\". The constitution of the Council was prescribed by the First Schedule to the Act. The Act made the Council a body corporate by the name Architects' Registration Council of the United Kingdom. It was habitually referred to colloquially by the acronym ARCUK.\n\nWhen the Warne Report was published in 1993, it was found that its principal recommendation was abolition of this body. Instead, after a consultation process conducted by the Department of the Environment this body has been reconstituted and renamed as the Architects Registration Board. It now operates under the Architects Act 1997.\n\nThe originating Act was the Architects (Registration) Act, 1931. Its long title was \"An Act to provide for the Registration of Architects and for purposes connected therewith\". It stated that the Council's duty was to set up and maintain a register, referred to in the Act as \"the Register of Architects\". The Act required the Council to cause to be entered in the Register the name and address of every person entitled to be registered under the Act, and annually to publish and offer for sale copies of the Register, setting forth the names of the registered persons in alphabetical order according to their surnames, with their regular business address.\n\nHard bound copies of all volumes in the annual series so produced, from volume 1 for 1933 and continuing into the years after the name of the registration body was changed to the Architects Registration Board, have been available for inspection by members of the public at the British Architectural Library of the Royal Institute of British Architects, London.\n\nFor ascertaining whether a person who claimed to be entitled to be registered was duly qualified, the Act required the Council to appoint annually a Board of Architectural Education referred to in the Act as \"the Board\", and a committee referred to in the Act as \"the Admissions Committee\".\n\nThe constitution of the Board was prescribed by the Second Schedule to the Act. By the Act two duties were ascribed to the Board, namely, to hold examinations in architecture in accordance with the Act, and to make recommendations to the Council in two respects, namely:\n\nThe constitution of the Admissions Committee was prescribed in the Third Schedule to the Act. The duty ascribed by the Act to the Admissions Committee was to consider every application for registration under the Act and to report thereon to the Council as to whether the applicant was, in the opinion of the Committee, qualified for registration.\n\nBefore a person who had duly applied to the Council could become entitled to be registered, the Act required the Council to be satisfied on a report of the Admission Committee that the applicant was qualified in one of four respects, namely:\nThe Council was required to make regulations in respect of anything which by the Act was to be prescribed, but no regulations of the Council were to be of any force or validity without the prior approval of the Privy Council.\n\nAmong other things, the 1996 Act abolished the statutory Board of Architectural Education and the Admissions Committee (subsection 118(2)).\n\nThe long title of the originating Act of 1931 was \"An Act to provide for the Registration of architects and for purposes connected therewith\". By subsection 3(3) of this Act the register which the Council was required to set up, maintain and publish annually was to be called the Register of Registered Architects; and under section 10 of the originating Act persons who were entitled to apply for registration could thereby claim \"to take and use the name of 'Registered Architect'\" as a statutory right, with effect from 1932.\n\nBy subsection 3(3) of the Architects Registration Act, 1938 the name of this statutory register was changed to the Register of Architects, and this continues under the Architects Act 1997.\n\nThe change of name was made in connection with the introduction of statutory restrictions on the use of the vernacular word \"architect\", which were to apply to all persons, including fully qualified practising members of the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) or other chartered bodies of architects, or societies or associations. This innovation was imposed under threat of penalty on prosecution in the Magistrates Courts for infringement.\n\nThe Discipline Committee which was constituted under the 1931 Act was abolished under subsection 118(2) of the 1996 Act. Instead there is a Professional Conduct Committee which operates under Part III of the 1997 Act.\n\nFor sources, references and further information see:\n\n"}
{"id": "10568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10568", "title": "Association football", "text": "Association football\n\nAssociation football, more commonly known as football or soccer, is a team sport played with a spherical ball between two teams of eleven players. It is played by 250 million players in over 200 countries and dependencies, making it the world's most popular sport. The game is played on a rectangular field called a pitch with a goal at each end. The object of the game is to score by moving the ball beyond the goal line into the opposing goal.\n\nAssociation football is one of a family of football codes, which emerged from various ball games played worldwide since antiquity. The modern game traces its origins to 1863 when the Laws of the Game were originally codified in England by The Football Association.\n\nPlayers are not allowed to touch the ball with hands or arms while it is in play, except for the goalkeepers within the penalty area. Other players mainly use their feet to strike or pass the ball, but may also use any other part of their body except the hands and the arms. The team that scores most goals by the end of the match wins. If the score is level at the end of the game, either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time or a penalty shootout depending on the format of the competition. Association football is governed internationally by the International Federation of Association Football (FIFA; ), which organises World Cups for both men and women every four years.\n\nThe rules of association football were codified in England by the Football Association in 1863 and the name \"association football\" was coined to distinguish the game from the other forms of football played at the time, specifically rugby football. The first written \"reference to the inflated ball used in the game\" was in the mid-14th century: \"Þe heued fro þe body went, Als it were a foteballe\". The \"Online Etymology Dictionary\" states that the \"rules of the game\" were made in 1848, before the \"split off in 1863\". The term \"soccer\" comes from a slang or jocular abbreviation of the word \"association\", with the suffix \"-er\" appended to it. The word \"soccer\" (which arrived at its final form in 1895) was first recorded in 1889 in the earlier form of \"socca.\"\n\nWithin the English-speaking world, association football is now usually called \"football\" in the United Kingdom and mainly \"soccer\" in Canada and the United States. People in Australia, Ireland, South Africa and New Zealand use either or both terms, although national associations in Australia and New Zealand now primarily use \"football\" for the formal name.\n\nAccording to FIFA, the Chinese competitive game \"cuju\" (蹴鞠, literally \"kick ball\") is the earliest form of football for which there is evidence. \"Cuju\" players could use any part of the body apart from hands and the intent was kicking a ball through an opening into a net. It was remarkably similar to modern football, though similarities to rugby occurred. During the Han Dynasty (206 BC – 220 AD), \"cuju\" games were standardised and rules were established.\n\n\"Phaininda\" and \"episkyros\" were Greek ball games. An image of an \"episkyros\" player depicted in low relief on a vase at the National Archaeological Museum of Athens appears on the UEFA European Championship Cup. Athenaeus, writing in 228 AD, referenced the Roman ball game \"harpastum\". \"Phaininda\", \"episkyros\" and \"harpastum\" were played involving hands and violence. They all appear to have resembled rugby football, wrestling and volleyball more than what is recognizable as modern football. As with pre-codified \"mob football\", the antecedent of all modern football codes, these three games involved more handling the ball than kicking. Other games included \"kemari\" in Japan and \"chuk-guk\" in Korea.\n\nAssociation football in itself does not have a classical history. Notwithstanding any similarities to other ball games played around the world FIFA has recognised that no historical connection exists with any game played in antiquity outside Europe. The modern rules of association football are based on the mid-19th century efforts to standardise the widely varying forms of football played in the public schools of England. The history of football in England dates back to at least the eighth century AD.\n\nThe Cambridge Rules, first drawn up at Cambridge University in 1848, were particularly influential in the development of subsequent codes, including association football. The Cambridge Rules were written at Trinity College, Cambridge, at a meeting attended by representatives from Eton, Harrow, Rugby, Winchester and Shrewsbury schools. They were not universally adopted. During the 1850s, many clubs unconnected to schools or universities were formed throughout the English-speaking world, to play various forms of football. Some came up with their own distinct codes of rules, most notably the Sheffield Football Club, formed by former public school pupils in 1857, which led to formation of a Sheffield FA in 1867. In 1862, John Charles Thring of Uppingham School also devised an influential set of rules.\n\nThese ongoing efforts contributed to the formation of The Football Association (The FA) in 1863, which first met on the morning of 26 October 1863 at the Freemasons' Tavern in Great Queen Street, London. The only school to be represented on this occasion was Charterhouse. The Freemason's Tavern was the setting for five more meetings between October and December, which eventually produced the first comprehensive set of rules. At the final meeting, the first FA treasurer, the representative from Blackheath, withdrew his club from the FA over the removal of two draft rules at the previous meeting: the first allowed for running with the ball in hand; the second for obstructing such a run by hacking (kicking an opponent in the shins), tripping and holding. Other English rugby clubs followed this lead and did not join the FA and instead in 1871 formed the Rugby Football Union. The eleven remaining clubs, under the charge of Ebenezer Cobb Morley, went on to ratify the original thirteen laws of the game. These rules included handling of the ball by \"marks\" and the lack of a crossbar, rules which made it remarkably similar to Victorian rules football being developed at that time in Australia. The Sheffield FA played by its own rules until the 1870s with the FA absorbing some of its rules until there was little difference between the games.\n\nThe world's oldest football competition is the FA Cup, which was founded by C. W. Alcock and has been contested by English teams since 1872. The first official international football match also took place in 1872, between Scotland and England in Glasgow, again at the instigation of C. W. Alcock. England is also home to the world's first football league, which was founded in Birmingham in 1888 by Aston Villa director William McGregor. The original format contained 12 clubs from the Midlands and Northern England.\nThe laws of the game are determined by the International Football Association Board (IFAB). The board was formed in 1886 after a meeting in Manchester of The Football Association, the Scottish Football Association, the Football Association of Wales, and the Irish Football Association. FIFA, the international football body, was formed in Paris in 1904 and declared that they would adhere to Laws of the Game of the Football Association. The growing popularity of the international game led to the admittance of FIFA representatives to the International Football Association Board in 1913. The board consists of four representatives from FIFA and one representative from each of the four British associations.\n\nToday, football is played at a professional level all over the world. Millions of people regularly go to football stadiums to follow their favourite teams, while billions more watch the game on television or on the internet. A very large number of people also play football at an amateur level. According to a survey conducted by FIFA published in 2001, over 240 million people from more than 200 countries regularly play football. Football has the highest global television audience in sport.\n\nIn many parts of the world football evokes great passions and plays an important role in the life of individual fans, local communities, and even nations. R. Kapuscinski says that Europeans who are polite, modest, or humble fall easily into rage when playing or watching football games. The Côte d'Ivoire national football team helped secure a truce to the nation's civil war in 2006 and it helped further reduce tensions between government and rebel forces in 2007 by playing a match in the rebel capital of Bouaké, an occasion that brought both armies together peacefully for the first time. By contrast, football is widely considered to have been the final proximate cause for the Football War in June 1969 between El Salvador and Honduras. The sport also exacerbated tensions at the beginning of the Yugoslav Wars of the 1990s, when a match between Dinamo Zagreb and Red Star Belgrade degenerated into rioting in May 1990.\n\nWomen may have been playing \"football\" for as long as the game has existed. Evidence shows that an ancient version of the game (Tsu Chu) was played by women during the Han Dynasty (25–220 CE). Two female figures are depicted in Han Dynasty (25–220 CE) frescoes, playing Tsu Chu. There are, however, a number of opinions about the accuracy of dates, the earliest estimates at 5000 BCE.\n\nAssociation football, the modern game, also has documented early involvement of women. An annual competition in Mid-Lothian, Scotland during the 1790s is reported, too. In 1863, football governing bodies introduced standardised rules to prohibit violence on the pitch, making it more socially acceptable for women to play. The first match recorded by the Scottish Football Association took place in 1892 in Glasgow. In England, the first recorded game of football between women took place in 1895.\n\nThe most well-documented early European team was founded by activist Nettie Honeyball in England in 1894. It was named the British Ladies' Football Club. Nettie Honeyball is quoted, \"I founded the association late last year [1894], with the fixed resolve of proving to the world that women are not the 'ornamental and useless' creatures men have pictured. I must confess, my convictions on all matters where the sexes are so widely divided are all on the side of emancipation, and I look forward to the time when ladies may sit in Parliament and have a voice in the direction of affairs, especially those which concern them most.\" Honeyball and those like her paved the way for women's football. However, the women's game was frowned upon by the British football associations, and continued without their support. It has been suggested that this was motivated by a perceived threat to the 'masculinity' of the game.\n\nWomen's football became popular on a large scale at the time of the First World War, when employment in heavy industry spurred the growth of the game, much as it had done for men fifty years earlier. The most successful team of the era was Dick, Kerr's Ladies of Preston, England. The team played in the first women's international matches in 1920, against a team from Paris, France, in April, and also made up most of the England team against a Scottish Ladies XI in 1920, and winning 22-0.\n\nDespite being more popular than some men's football events (one match saw a 53,000 strong crowd), women's football in England suffered a blow in 1921 when The Football Association outlawed the playing of the game on Association members' pitches, on the grounds that the game (as played by women) was distasteful. Some speculated that this may have also been due to envy of the large crowds that women's matches attracted. This led to the formation of the English Ladies Football Association and play moved to rugby grounds.\n\nAssociation football has been played by women since at least the time of the first recorded women's games in the late 19th century. It has traditionally been associated with charity games and physical exercise, particularly in the United Kingdom. In the late 1960s and early 1970s women's association football was organised in the United Kingdom, eventually becoming the most prominent team sport for British women.\n\nThe growth in women's football has seen major competitions being launched at both national and international level mirroring the male competitions. Women's football has faced many struggles. It had a \"golden age\" in the United Kingdom in the early 1920s when crowds reached 50,000 at some matches; this was stopped on 5 December 1921 when England's Football Association voted to ban the game from grounds used by its member clubs. The FA's ban was rescinded in December 1969 with UEFA voting to officially recognise women's football in 1971. The FIFA Women's World Cup was inaugurated in 1991 and has been held every four years since, while women's football has been an Olympic event since 1996.\n\nAssociation football is played in accordance with a set of rules known as the Laws of the Game. The game is played using a spherical ball of circumference, known as the \"football\" (or \"soccer ball\"). Two teams of eleven players each compete to get the ball into the other team's goal (between the posts and under the bar), thereby scoring a goal. The team that has scored more goals at the end of the game is the winner; if both teams have scored an equal number of goals then the game is a draw. Each team is led by a captain who has only one official responsibility as mandated by the Laws of the Game: to represent his or her team in the coin toss prior to kick-off or penalty kicks.\n\nThe primary law is that players other than goalkeepers may not deliberately handle the ball with their hands or arms during play, though they must use both their hands during a throw-in restart. Although players usually use their feet to move the ball around they may use any part of their body (notably, \"heading\" with the forehead) other than their hands or arms. Within normal play, all players are free to play the ball in any direction and move throughout the pitch, though players may not pass to teammates who are in an offside position.\nDuring gameplay, players attempt to create goal-scoring opportunities through individual control of the ball, such as by dribbling, passing the ball to a teammate, and by taking shots at the goal, which is guarded by the opposing goalkeeper. Opposing players may try to regain control of the ball by intercepting a pass or through tackling the opponent in possession of the ball; however, physical contact between opponents is restricted. Football is generally a free-flowing game, with play stopping only when the ball has left the field of play or when play is stopped by the referee for an infringement of the rules. After a stoppage, play recommences with a specified restart.\n\nAt a professional level, most matches produce only a few goals. For example, the 2005–06 season of the English Premier League produced an average of 2.48 goals per match. The Laws of the Game do not specify any player positions other than goalkeeper, but a number of specialised roles have evolved. Broadly, these include three main categories: strikers, or forwards, whose main task is to score goals; defenders, who specialise in preventing their opponents from scoring; and midfielders, who dispossess the opposition and keep possession of the ball to pass it to the forwards on their team. Players in these positions are referred to as outfield players, to distinguish them from the goalkeeper. These positions are further subdivided according to the area of the field in which the player spends most time. For example, there are central defenders, and left and right midfielders. The ten outfield players may be arranged in any combination. The number of players in each position determines the style of the team's play; more forwards and fewer defenders creates a more aggressive and offensive-minded game, while the reverse creates a slower, more defensive style of play. While players typically spend most of the game in a specific position, there are few restrictions on player movement, and players can switch positions at any time. The layout of a team's players is known as a \"formation\". Defining the team's formation and tactics is usually the prerogative of the team's manager.\n\nThere are 17 laws in the official Laws of the Game, each containing a collection of stipulation and guidelines. The same laws are designed to apply to all levels of football, although certain modifications for groups such as juniors, seniors, women and people with physical disabilities are permitted. The laws are often framed in broad terms, which allow flexibility in their application depending on the nature of the game. The Laws of the Game are published by FIFA, but are maintained by the International Football Association Board (IFAB). In addition to the seventeen laws, numerous IFAB decisions and other directives contribute to the regulation of football.\n\nEach team consists of a maximum of eleven players (excluding substitutes), one of whom must be the goalkeeper. Competition rules may state a minimum number of players required to constitute a team, which is usually seven. Goalkeepers are the only players allowed to play the ball with their hands or arms, provided they do so within the penalty area in front of their own goal. Though there are a variety of positions in which the outfield (non-goalkeeper) players are strategically placed by a coach, these positions are not defined or required by the Laws.\n\nThe basic equipment or \"kit\" players are required to wear includes a shirt, shorts, socks, footwear and adequate shin guards. An athletic supporter and protective cup is highly recommended for male players by medical experts and professionals. Headgear is not a required piece of basic equipment, but players today may choose to wear it to protect themselves from head injury. Players are forbidden to wear or use anything that is dangerous to themselves or another player, such as jewellery or watches. The goalkeeper must wear clothing that is easily distinguishable from that worn by the other players and the match officials.\n\nA number of players may be replaced by substitutes during the course of the game. The maximum number of substitutions permitted in most competitive international and domestic league games is three in ninety minutes with each team being allowed one more if the game should go into extra-time, though the permitted number may vary in other competitions or in friendly matches. Common reasons for a substitution include injury, tiredness, ineffectiveness, a tactical switch, or timewasting at the end of a finely poised game. In standard adult matches, a player who has been substituted may not take further part in a match. IFAB recommends \"that a match should not continue if there are fewer than seven players in either team.\" Any decision regarding points awarded for abandoned games is left to the individual football associations.\nA game is officiated by a referee, who has \"full authority to enforce the Laws of the Game in connection with the match to which he has been appointed\" (Law 5), and whose decisions are final. The referee is assisted by two assistant referees. In many high-level games there is also a fourth official who assists the referee and may replace another official should the need arise.\n\nGoal line technology is used to measure if the whole ball has crossed the goal-line thereby determining if a goal has or hasn't been scored, this was brought in to prevent there being controversy. Video assistant referee (VAR) has also been increasingly introduced to assist officials through video replay to correct clear and obvious mistakes. There are four types of calls that can be reviewed: mistaken identity in awarding a red or yellow card, goals and whether there was a violation during the buildup, direct red card decisions, and penalty decisions.\n\nThe ball is spherical with a circumference of between , a weight in the range of , and a pressure between at sea level. In the past the ball was made up of leather panels sewn together, with a latex bladder for pressurisation but modern balls at all levels of the game are now synthetic.\n\nAs the Laws were formulated in England, and were initially administered solely by the four British football associations within IFAB, the standard dimensions of a football pitch were originally expressed in imperial units. The Laws now express dimensions with approximate metric equivalents (followed by traditional units in brackets), though use of imperial units remains popular in English-speaking countries with a relatively recent history of metrication (or only partial metrication), such as Britain.\n\nThe length of the pitch, or field, for international adult matches is in the range of 100–110 m (110–120 yd) and the width is in the range of 64–75 m (70–80 yd). Fields for non-international matches may be 90–120 m (100–130 yd) length and 45–90 m (50–100 yd) in width, provided that the pitch does not become square. In 2008, the IFAB initially approved a fixed size of 105 m (344 ft) long and 68 m (223 ft) wide as a standard pitch dimension for international matches; however, this decision was later put on hold and was never actually implemented.\n\nThe longer boundary lines are \"touchlines\", while the shorter boundaries (on which the goals are placed) are \"goal lines\". A rectangular goal is positioned at the middle of each goal line. The inner edges of the vertical goal posts must be apart, and the lower edge of the horizontal crossbar supported by the goal posts must be above the ground. Nets are usually placed behind the goal, but are not required by the Laws.\n\nIn front of the goal is the penalty area. This area is marked by the goal line, two lines starting on the goal line 16.5 m (18 yd) from the goalposts and extending 16.5 m (18 yd) into the pitch perpendicular to the goal line, and a line joining them. This area has a number of functions, the most prominent being to mark where the goalkeeper may handle the ball and where a penalty foul by a member of the defending team becomes punishable by a penalty kick. Other markings define the position of the ball or players at kick-offs, goal kicks, penalty kicks and corner kicks.\n\nA standard adult football match consists of two halves of 45 minutes each. Each half runs continuously, meaning that the clock is not stopped when the ball is out of play. There is usually a 15-minute half-time break between halves. The end of the match is known as full-time. The referee is the official timekeeper for the match, and may make an allowance for time lost through substitutions, injured players requiring attention, or other stoppages. This added time is called \"additional time\" in FIFA documents, but is most commonly referred to as \"stoppage time\" or \"injury time\", while \"lost time\" can also be used as a synonym. The duration of stoppage time is at the sole discretion of the referee. Stoppage time does not fully compensate for the time in which the ball is out of play, and a 90-minute game typically involves about an hour of \"effective playing time\". The referee alone signals the end of the match. In matches where a fourth official is appointed, towards the end of the half the referee signals how many minutes of stoppage time he intends to add. The fourth official then informs the players and spectators by holding up a board showing this number. The signalled stoppage time may be further extended by the referee. Added time was introduced because of an incident which happened in 1891 during a match between Stoke and Aston Villa. Trailing 1–0 and with just two minutes remaining, Stoke were awarded a penalty. Villa's goalkeeper kicked the ball out of the ground, and by the time the ball had been recovered, the 90 minutes had elapsed and the game was over. The same law also states that the duration of either half is extended until the penalty kick to be taken or retaken is completed, thus no game shall end with a penalty to be taken.\nIn league competitions, games may end in a draw. In knockout competitions where a winner is required various methods may be employed to break such a deadlock; some competitions may invoke replays. A game tied at the end of regulation time may go into extra time, which consists of two further 15-minute periods. If the score is still tied after extra time, some competitions allow the use of penalty shootouts (known officially in the Laws of the Game as \"kicks from the penalty mark\") to determine which team will progress to the next stage of the tournament. Goals scored during extra time periods count towards the final score of the game, but kicks from the penalty mark are only used to decide the team that progresses to the next part of the tournament (with goals scored in a penalty shootout not making up part of the final score).\n\nIn competitions using two-legged matches, each team competes at home once, with an aggregate score from the two matches deciding which team progresses. Where aggregates are equal, the away goals rule may be used to determine the winners, in which case the winner is the team that scored the most goals in the leg they played away from home. If the result is still equal, extra time and potentially a penalty shootout are required.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, the IFAB experimented with ways of creating a winner without requiring a penalty shootout, which was often seen as an undesirable way to end a match. These involved rules ending a game in extra time early, either when the first goal in extra time was scored (\"golden goal\"), or if one team held a lead at the end of the first period of extra time (\"silver goal\"). Golden goal was used at the World Cup in 1998 and 2002. The first World Cup game decided by a golden goal was France's victory over Paraguay in 1998. Germany was the first nation to score a golden goal in a major competition, beating Czech Republic in the final of Euro 1996. Silver goal was used in Euro 2004. Both these experiments have been discontinued by IFAB.\n\nUnder the Laws, the two basic states of play during a game are \"ball in play\" and \"ball out of play\". From the beginning of each playing period with a kick-off until the end of the playing period, the ball is in play at all times, except when either the ball leaves the field of play, or play is stopped by the referee. When the ball becomes out of play, play is restarted by one of eight restart methods depending on how it went out of play:\n\n\nA foul occurs when a player commits an offence listed in the Laws of the Game while the ball is in play. The offences that constitute a foul are listed in Law 12. Handling the ball deliberately, tripping an opponent, or pushing an opponent, are examples of \"penal fouls\", punishable by a direct free kick or penalty kick depending on where the offence occurred. Other fouls are punishable by an indirect free kick.\n\nThe referee may punish a player's or substitute's misconduct by a caution (yellow card) or dismissal (red card). A second yellow card in the same game leads to a red card, which results in a dismissal. A player given a yellow card is said to have been \"booked\", the referee writing the player's name in his official notebook. If a player has been dismissed, no substitute can be brought on in their place and the player may not participate in further play. Misconduct may occur at any time, and while the offences that constitute misconduct are listed, the definitions are broad. In particular, the offence of \"unsporting behaviour\" may be used to deal with most events that violate the spirit of the game, even if they are not listed as specific offences. A referee can show a yellow or red card to a player, substitute or substituted player. Non-players such as managers and support staff cannot be shown the yellow or red card, but may be expelled from the technical area if they fail to conduct themselves in a responsible manner.\n\nRather than stopping play, the referee may allow play to continue if doing so will benefit the team against which an offence has been committed. This is known as \"playing an advantage\". The referee may \"call back\" play and penalise the original offence if the anticipated advantage does not ensue within \"a few seconds\". Even if an offence is not penalised due to advantage being played, the offender may still be sanctioned for misconduct at the next stoppage of play.\n\nThe referee's decision in all on-pitch matters is considered final. The score of a match cannot be altered after the game, even if later evidence shows that decisions (including awards/non-awards of goals) were incorrect.\n\nAlong with the general administration of the sport, football associations and competition organisers also enforce good conduct in wider aspects of the game, dealing with issues such as comments to the press, clubs' financial management, doping, age fraud and match fixing. Most competitions enforce mandatory suspensions for players who are sent off in a game. Some on-field incidents, if considered very serious (such as allegations of racial abuse), may result in competitions deciding to impose heavier sanctions than those normally associated with a red card. Some associations allow for appeals against player suspensions incurred on-field if clubs feel a referee was incorrect or unduly harsh.\n\nSanctions for such infractions may be levied on individuals or on to clubs as a whole. Penalties may include fines, points deductions (in league competitions) or even expulsion from competitions. For example, the English Football League deduct 12 points from any team that enters financial administration. Among other administrative sanctions are penalties against game forfeiture. Teams that had forfeited a game or had been forfeited against would be awarded a technical loss or win.\n\nThe recognised international governing body of football (and associated games, such as futsal and beach soccer) is FIFA. The FIFA headquarters are located in Zürich, Switzerland. Six regional confederations are associated with FIFA; these are:\n\nNational associations oversee football within individual countries. These are generally synonymous with sovereign states, (for example: the Fédération Camerounaise de Football in Cameroon) but also include a smaller number of associations responsible for sub-national entities or autonomous regions (for example the Scottish Football Association in Scotland). 209 national associations are affiliated both with FIFA and with their respective continental confederations.\n\nWhile FIFA is responsible for arranging competitions and most rules related to international competition, the actual Laws of the Game are set by the International Football Association Board, where each of the UK Associations has one vote, while FIFA collectively has four votes.\n\nThe major international competition in football is the World Cup, organised by FIFA. This competition takes place every four years since 1930 with the exception of 1942 and 1946 tournaments, which were cancelled due to World War II. Approximately 190–200 national teams compete in qualifying tournaments within the scope of continental confederations for a place in the finals. The finals tournament, which is held every four years, involves 32 national teams competing over a four-week period. The World Cup is the most prestigious association football tournament in the world as well as the most widely viewed and followed sporting event in the world, exceeding even the Olympic Games; the cumulative audience of all matches of the 2006 FIFA World Cup was estimated to be 26.29 billion with an estimated 715.1 million people watching the final match, a ninth of the entire population of the planet. The current champion is France, which won its second title at the 2018 tournament in Russia. FIFA Women's World Cup has been held every four years since 1991. Under the tournament's current format, national teams vie for 23 slots in a three-year qualification phase. (The host nation's team is automatically entered as the 24th slot.) The current champion is the United States, after winning their third title in the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup.\n\nThere has been a football tournament at every Summer Olympic Games since 1900, except at the 1932 games in Los Angeles. Before the inception of the World Cup, the Olympics (especially during the 1920s) were the most prestigious international event. Originally, the tournament was for amateurs only. As professionalism spread around the world, the gap in quality between the World Cup and the Olympics widened. The countries that benefited most were the Soviet Bloc countries of Eastern Europe, where top athletes were state-sponsored while retaining their status as amateurs. Between 1948 and 1980, 23 out of 27 Olympic medals were won by Eastern Europe, with only Sweden (gold in 1948 and bronze in 1952), Denmark (bronze in 1948 and silver in 1960) and Japan (bronze in 1968) breaking their dominance. For the 1984 Los Angeles Games, the IOC decided to admit professional players. FIFA still did not want the Olympics to rival the World Cup, so a compromise was struck that allowed teams from Africa, Asia, Oceania and CONCACAF to field their strongest professional sides, while restricting UEFA and CONMEBOL teams to players who had not played in a World Cup. Since 1992 male competitors must be under 23 years old, and since 1996, players under 23 years old, with three over-23 year old players, are allowed per squad. A women's tournament was added in 1996; in contrast to the men's event, full international sides without age restrictions play the women's Olympic tournament.\nAfter the World Cup, the most important international football competitions are the continental championships, which are organised by each continental confederation and contested between national teams. These are the European Championship (UEFA), the Copa América (CONMEBOL), African Cup of Nations (CAF), the Asian Cup (AFC), the CONCACAF Gold Cup (CONCACAF) and the OFC Nations Cup (OFC). The FIFA Confederations Cup is contested by the winners of all six continental championships, the current FIFA World Cup champions and the country which is hosting the Confederations Cup. This is generally regarded as a warm-up tournament for the upcoming FIFA World Cup and does not carry the same prestige as the World Cup itself. The most prestigious competitions in club football are the respective continental championships, which are generally contested between national champions, for example the UEFA Champions League in Europe and the Copa Libertadores in South America. The winners of each continental competition contest the FIFA Club World Cup.\n\nThe governing bodies in each country operate league systems in a domestic season, normally comprising several divisions, in which the teams gain points throughout the season depending on results. Teams are placed into tables, placing them in order according to points accrued. Most commonly, each team plays every other team in its league at home and away in each season, in a round-robin tournament. At the end of a season, the top team is declared the champion. The top few teams may be promoted to a higher division, and one or more of the teams finishing at the bottom are relegated to a lower division.\n\nThe teams finishing at the top of a country's league may be eligible also to play in international club competitions in the following season. The main exceptions to this system occur in some Latin American leagues, which divide football championships into two sections named Apertura and Clausura (Spanish for \"Opening\" and \"Closing\"), awarding a champion for each. The majority of countries supplement the league system with one or more \"cup\" competitions organised on a knock-out basis.\n\nSome countries' top divisions feature highly paid star players; in smaller countries, lower divisions, and most of women's clubs, players may be part-timers with a second job, or amateurs. The five top European leagues – the Bundesliga (Germany), Premier League (England), La Liga (Spain), Serie A (Italy), and Ligue 1 (France) – attract most of the world's best players and each of the leagues has a total wage cost in excess of £600 million/€763 million/US$1.185 billion.\n\nFootball hooliganism is the term used to describe disorderly, violent or destructive behaviour perpetrated by spectators at football events.\n\nVariants of football have been codified for reduced-sized teams (i.e. five-a-side football) play in non-field environments (i.e. beach soccer, indoor soccer, and futsal) and for teams with disabilities (i.e. paralympic association football).\n\nCasual games can be played with only minimal equipment – a basic game can be played on almost any open area of reasonable size with just a ball and items to mark the positions of two sets of goalposts. Such games can have team sizes that vary from eleven-a-side, can use a limited or modified subset of the official rules, and can be self-officiated by the players.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2726813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2726813", "title": "Burning of books and burying of scholars", "text": "Burning of books and burying of scholars\n\nThe burning of books and burying of scholars () refers to the supposed burning of texts in 213 BCE and live burial of 460 Confucian scholars in 212 BCE by the First Emperor of the Qin dynasty of Imperial China. The event caused the loss of many philosophical treatises of the Hundred Schools of Thought. The official philosophy of government (\"legalism\") survived.\n\nModern scholars doubt the details of the story in the \"Records of the Grand Historian\"—the main source—since Sima Qian, the author, wrote a century or so after the events and was an official of the Han dynasty, which could be expected to portray the previous rulers unfavorably. While it is clear that the First Emperor gathered and destroyed many works which he regarded as subversive, two copies of each school were to be preserved in imperial libraries. These were destroyed in the fighting following the fall of the dynasty. It is now believed that there likely was an incident, but they were not Confucians and were not \"buried alive.\"\n\nAccording to the Sima Qian's \"Records of the Grand Historian\" (Shiji), after Qin Shi Huangdi, the first emperor of China, unified China in 221 BCE, his chancellor Li Si suggested suppressing intellectual discourse to unify thought and political opinion. \nThree categories of books were viewed by Li Si to be most dangerous politically. These were poetry (particularly the \"Shi Jing\"), history (\"Shujing\" and especially historical records of other states than Qin), and philosophy. The ancient collection of poetry and historical records contained many stories concerning the ancient virtuous rulers. Li Si believed that if the people were to read these works they were likely to invoke the past and become dissatisfied with the present. The reason for opposing various schools of philosophy was that they advocated political ideas often incompatible with the totalitarian regime.\n\nThe extent of the damage to Chinese intellectual heritage is difficult to assess, for details have not been recorded in history. Several facts, however, indicate that the consequences of this event, although enduring, had not been extensive. First, it is recorded in Li Si's memorial that all technological books were to be spared. Secondly, even the \"objectionable\" books, poetry and philosophy in particular, were preserved in imperial archives and allowed to be kept by the official scholars.\n\nOf the various categories of books mentioned, history suffered one of the greatest losses of its ancient time. Extremely few state history books before Qin have survived. Li Si stated that all history books not in the Qin interpretation were to be burned. It is not clear whether copies of these books were actually burned or allowed to stay in the imperial archives. Even if some histories were preserved, they possibly would have been destroyed in 206 B.C. when enemies captured and burnt the Qin imperial palaces in which the archives were most likely located.\n\nAt the end of the Qin, the Epang Palace's national records were destroyed by fire. Tang dynasty poet Zhang Jie () wrote a poem (titled 焚书坑, \"Fen Shu Keng\", \"Pits for Book-burning\") about the policy of destruction by both the Qin dynasty and the rebels (of which Liu Bang and Xiang Yu were the examples cited as they entered the capital city Xianyang one after the other.):\n\nTradition had it that after being deceived by two alchemists while seeking prolonged life, Qin Shi Huang ordered more than 460 scholars in the capital to be buried alive in the second year of the proscription. The belief was based on this passage in the \"Shiji \" (chapter 6):\n\nAn account given by Wei Hong in the 2nd century added another 700 to the figure.\n\nThe scholar Michel Nylan observes that despite its mythic significance, the Burning of the Books legend does not bear close scrutiny. Nylan suggests that the reason Han dynasty scholars charged the Qin with destroying the Confucian Five Classics was partly to \"slander\" the state they defeated and partly because Han scholars misunderstood the nature of the texts, for it was only after the founding of the Han that Sima Qian labeled the Five Classics as “Confucian.” Nylan also points out that the Qin court appointed classical scholars who were specialists on the \"Classic of Poetry\" and the \"Book of Documents\", which meant that these texts would have been exempted, and that the \"Book of Rites\" and the \"Zuozhuan\" did not contain the glorification of defeated feudal states which the First Emperor gave as his reason for destroying them. Martin Kern adds that Qin and early Han writings frequently cite the Classics, especially the \"Documents \"and the \"Classic of Poetry\", which would not have been possible if they had been burned, as reported.\n\nSima Qian’s account of the execution of the scholars has similar difficulties. First, no text earlier than the \"Shiji\" mentions the executions, the \"Shiji \"mentions no Confucian scholar by name as a victim of the executions, and in fact, no other text mentions the executions at all until the 1st century AD. The earliest known use of the famous phrase “burning the books and executing the Confucians” is not noted until the early 4th century.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20561058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20561058", "title": "Colegio Militar de la Nación", "text": "Colegio Militar de la Nación\n\nThe National Military College () is the institution in charge of the undergraduate education of officers of the Argentine Army. It is located at El Palomar, Buenos Aires.\n\nEstablished on October 11, 1869, by President Domingo Sarmiento at the height of the Paraguayan War, its original quarters were opened in where the Parque Tres de Febrero stands today, with Col. Juan F. Czetz as the first superintendent. It was transferred to San Martín in 1892, and to its present location, the site of the 1852 Battle of Caseros that deposed mid-19th century strongman Juan Manuel de Rosas, in 1938.\n\nIts present facilities were inaugurated in 1937. \"El Palomar\" and \"La Casa de Caseros\", installations involved in the Battle of Caseros, were declared a National Historic Monument.\n\nTraditionally, most cadets belonged to high- or middle-class families, with many of them having a long military tradition. This has changed in recent years, the Corps of Cadetes becoming more representative of lower-class families.\n\nWomen were first admitted in the College in 1999, and allowed into Infantry and Cavalry arms in 2013.\n\nThere are four different type of courses in the College:\n\nRegular, four-year course. For officers of the five combat arms (Infantry, Cavalry, Artillery, Engineers and Signals), plus Quartermater and Ordnance corps. Cadets graduate as second lieutenant and get a degree in administration.\n\nCourse for professional nurses. Cadets spend three years at the College, graduate as second lieutenants, and a fourth year at the Central Military Hospital, after which they obtain their degree.\n\nOne-year course for officers of the professional corps. For university graduates (in medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, biochemistry, veterinary, law, information technology and physical training) and private aviators. Graduate as either a lieutenant or second lieutenant (according to the duration of the previous career) in the relevant branch.\n\nTwo-year course for band officers. For band NCOs with at least five years of service. Graduate as second lieutenant.\n\nA system of short courses for reserve officers was established in 2000, but was discontinued after a few years due to the poor performance of the graduates.\n\nAdmission is on a competitive basis, and consists of academic (according to the course of choice), medical, psychological and physical training examinations. For the four- and three-year courses, a high school diploma is the minimum previous education requirement, although a number of applicants usually have at least one year of college-level education.\n\nCadets are not referred to as freshmen, sophomores, juniors, or seniors. Instead they are officially called fourth class, third class, second class, and first class cadets. Unlike most academies the Regiment of Cadets marches on parade in the following order of precedence, in full dress uniforms:\n\n\nFormerly the College sported a horse artillery battery which used the walk or the trot march of the cavalry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28129098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28129098", "title": "Community Scholars, Inc.", "text": "Community Scholars, Inc.\n\nCommunity Scholars is a non-profit organization established in El Paso, Texas. The youth leadership development program hires high school sophomores/juniors and college students to study public policy and economic development topics in the Paso del Norte Region. The program offers paid internships to students who academically rank in the top 20 percent in their class and who also have demonstrated a record of academic rigor and community service.\n\nBy offering paid internships, the organization seeks to address El Paso's \"brain drain,\" and begin to attract young talent back to their hometown to help move the community forward. Interns analyze all policy matters in small groups, ultimately understanding how policy comes to fruition and how numerous policy decisions affect the community. Topics generally focus on the areas of healthcare, education, workforce development, infrastructure, transportation and any other issue that is affecting the region.\n\nThe organization is well known for its 1999 report regarding El Paso branch financial institution's lending practices, analyzing whether the banks were meeting the credit and depository needs of El Paso. The report was received negatively by local financial and business institutions, including the chambers of commerce and some of the University of Texas at El Paso's business department professors.\n\nThe organization has received constant criticism for its reliance on local school districts to provide a majority of its funding. It annually approaches school districts to partner with the organization to provide youth leadership skills to its students. The organization reports back to the districts on an annual basis to allow participants in the program to discuss the impact the internship experience has had on them.\n"}
{"id": "33387949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33387949", "title": "Complex and Adaptive Systems Laboratory", "text": "Complex and Adaptive Systems Laboratory\n\nComplex and Adaptive Systems Laboratory (CASL) is an interdisciplinary research institute in University College Dublin. It is formed around four research clusters. The institute houses research groups from a number of Schools within UCD, notably computer science.\nIt is located in the Belfield Business Park at the northern end of the main UCD campus. The institute is involved in all aspects of research into complex systems from atomistic models, through to societal modelling.\n\nLed by Dr. Mike O'Neill this cluster studies computational systems inspired by the Natural World, including complex, physical, social and biological systems, and optimisation and model induction methods in their broader sense. The main facets of the cluster are: nature-inspired problem solving, understanding natural systems, exploiting natural processes as computational machines, and developing the next generation of optimisation and model induction methods. Groups in this cluster develop and apply methods to a broad range of problem domains including Finance, Computer Science, Design, Architecture, Music, Sound Synthesis, Bioinformatics, Engineering and Telecommunications.\n\nThe Networks and Data Analysis cluster is concerned with the analysis of complex data from and about networks. These networks may be social networks (in the broadest sense), biological networks, sensor networks or communications networks. The defining characteristic of the research in this cluster is the significance of the network structure in the data. The research concerns the discovery of interesting structure in the data and the fusion of data from different sources.\n\nThe Security and Trust cluster seeks to combine fundamental mathematics, computer science and engineering, with practical software engineering expertise and knowledge of human behaviour, to study problems in the areas of security and trust. Research topics include cryptography, security, privacy, trust, voting issues, information security, network coding and network information theory, watermarking, steganography, error correction, modulation, signal processing.\n\nThis cluster aims to study and link the broad common underpinning causes of extreme weather, market crashes, social fads, and global epidemics using simulation science as the tool of discovery.\n\nA number of structured PhD Programmes provide post-graduate education throughout the Institute: \n"}
{"id": "39278567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39278567", "title": "Computer Arimaa", "text": "Computer Arimaa\n\nComputer Arimaa refers to the playing of the board game Arimaa by computer programs.\n\nIn 2002, Indian American computer engineer Omar Syed published the rules to Arimaa and announced a $10,000 prize, available annually until 2020, for the first computer program (running on standard, off-the-shelf hardware) able to defeat each of three top-ranked human players in a three-game series. The prize was claimed in 2015, when a computer program played 7:2 against three human players. The game has been the subject of several research papers.\n\nThe number of different ways that each player can set up their pieces at the beginning of the game is:\n\nformula_1\n\nThe player can put 8 rabbits on 16 possible squares, followed by 2 cats on the 8 remaining squares, 2 dogs on the 6 remaining squares, 2 horses on the four remaining squares, one camel on one of the two remaining squares, and the elephant on the final unused square.\n\nBecause each player can start the game with one of 64,864,800 opening setups, the total state space for the opening is:\n\nformula_2\n\nAs Christ-Jan Cox said in his Master's thesis, because the number of possible initial states is so large, \"[i]t follows that it is very difficult to develop complete databases of opening moves.\"\n\nIt is important for the computer to be able to evaluate the value of the pieces on the board so it can assess whether or not a capture or exchange would be desirable. Assessing the relative value of pieces is an area of ongoing Arimaa research. Some currently-used systems are DAPE and FAME.\n\nThe following techniques are used by some or all of the artificial intelligence programs that play Arimaa:\n\n\nSeveral aspects of Arimaa make it difficult for computer programs to beat good human players. Because so much effort has gone into the development of strong chess-playing software, it is particularly relevant to understand why techniques applicable to chess are less effective for Arimaa.\n\nTop chess programs use brute-force searching coupled with static position evaluation dominated by material considerations. Chess programs examine many, many possible moves, but they are not good (compared to humans) at determining who is winning at the end of a series of moves unless one side has more pieces than the other. The same is true for Arimaa programs, but their results are not as good in practice.\n\nWhen brute-force searching is applied to Arimaa, the depth of the search is limited by the huge number of options each player has on each turn. Computationally, the number of options a player has available to them governs the number of different paths play can go down. This is known as the branching factor. The average branching factor in a game of Chess is about 35, whereas in Arimaa it is about 17,000.\n\nThese differing branching factors imply that a computer which can search to a depth of eight turns for each player in chess, can only search about three turns deep for each player in Arimaa:\n\nformula_3\n\nBrute force search depth, for chess software, is nearly doubled by alpha-beta pruning, which allows the software to conclude that one move is better than another without examining every possible continuation of the weaker move. If the opponent can crush a certain move with one reply, it isn't necessary to examine other replies, which dramatically increases search speed. In Arimaa, however, the side to move switches only every four steps, which reduces the number of available cutoffs in a step-based search.\n\nFurthermore, the usefulness of alpha-beta pruning is heavily dependent on the order in which moves are considered. Good moves must be considered before bad ones in order for the bad ones to be neglected. In particular, checking and capturing moves are key for pruning, because they are often much better than other moves. In Arimaa software the speedup provided by alpha-beta pruning is less, because captures are rarer. In rated games played on arimaa.com, only 3% of steps result in capture, compared to about 19% of chess moves that result in capture.\n\nIn most Arimaa positions, particularly toward the beginning of the game when the board is still crowded, a competent player can avoid losing any pieces within the next two turns. Compared to chess, Arimaa allows either player to delay captures for longer. Indeed, the median move number of the first capture in chess is turn 6, whereas in Arimaa it is turn 12. The struggle is initially more positional in Arimaa, and revolves around making captures unavoidable at some point in the future. This magnifies the importance of correctly judging who is gaining ground in non-material ways. Thus the strength of computer programs (examining millions of positions) is not as significant as their weakness (judging the position apart from who has more pieces).\n\nThe weakness of Arimaa programs in the opening phases is further magnified by the setup phase. In chess every game starts from the same position. By compiling before the game a list of stock replies to all standard opening moves, chess programs may often make a dozen or more excellent moves before starting to \"think\". Humans do the same, but have a smaller and less reliable memory of openings, which puts humans at a relative disadvantage in chess. Arimaa, in contrast, has millions of possible ways to set up the pieces even before the first piece moves. This prevents programs from having any meaningful opening book.\n\nAs the game progresses, exchanges and the advancement of rabbits tend to make the position more open and tactical. Arimaa programs typically play better in this sort of position, because they see tactical shots which humans overlook. However, it is usually possible for humans to avoid wide-open positions by conservative play, and to angle for strategic positions in which computers fare worse. Against a conservative opponent it is almost impossible to bust open the position in Arimaa, whereas in chess it is merely difficult. One must beat defensive play by the accumulation of small, long-term advantages, which programs do not do very well.\n\nOne additional technique from computer chess which does not apply to Arimaa is endgame tablebases. Master-level chess games sometimes trade down into unclear endgames with only a few pieces, for example king and knight vs. king and rook. It is possible to build, by retrograde analysis, an exhaustive table of the correct move in all such positions. Programs have only to consult a pre-generated table in such positions, rather than \"thinking\" afresh, which gives them a relative advantage over humans. Arimaa, in contrast, seldom comes to an endgame. Equal exchanges of pieces are less common than in chess, so it is rare for a game of Arimaa to \"trade down\" and still be unclear. An average game of Arimaa has only eight captures (compared to seventeen for chess), and top humans can often defeat top programs in Arimaa without losing a single piece, for example the second game of the 2014 Challenge match. Another example of low capture density is this semifinal game of the 2012 World Championship, featuring only a single capture, a goal-forcing elephant sacrifice.\n\nOmar Syed hopes that, because traditional artificial intelligence techniques are only moderately effective for Arimaa, programmers will be forced to use new artificial intelligence techniques to create a strong Arimaa-playing program. The successful quest to build a world-championship-caliber chess program has produced many techniques to successfully play games, but has contributed essentially nothing to more general reasoning; in fact, the techniques of chess playing programs have been excluded from some definitions of artificial intelligence; a goal for Arimaa is that the techniques involved in playing it will help the larger goals of artificial intelligence.\n\nThe structure of Syed's man-against-machine challenge is focused on rewarding advances in AI software and not advances in hardware. In the annual challenge, programs are run on machines chosen and provided by Syed himself, under the criterion that it be a typical, inexpensive, off-the-shelf home computer. The challenge would not be open to anyone requiring expensive multi-processor machines such as those used to challenge top-level chess players, much less something like the custom-built supercomputer Deep Blue, even though it was the success of this hardware-intensive approach which inspired Arimaa's invention. Syed believes that even the computer used in the 2004 challenge match (a Pentium 4 2.4 GHz system with 512 MB of RAM) had sufficient hardware to win the challenge prize if only it was running the proper software. Supercomputers might already have the power to conquer Arimaa by brute force using conventional AI software, and eventually personal computers will too, if hardware continues to advance at the current rate. This is why the Arimaa challenge prize is offered only until the year 2020.\n\nIt has been argued that a computer has beaten the world chess champion but not beaten the human in the Arimaa Challenge (until 2015) because of six reasons:\n\n\nHowever, the Arimaa community disputes this argument point by point. To the first point, Arimaa is a new game, so the playing community is still small and even the best players are not professional players and have only been playing the game for a few years. Thus the human players in the Arimaa Challenge are much weaker than the human players in the chess challenge. The weakness of human players should make the Arimaa Challenge easier to conquer than chess, which compensates developers for having studied the problem for a shorter time.\n\nThe remaining five points compare the Arimaa Challenge only to Kasparov vs. Deep Blue, ignoring all other man vs. machine chess matches in which computers have prevailed. The chess match which can most closely be compared to the Arimaa Challenge match is the Man vs Machine World Team Championship. In 2004 and 2005 a team of humans played against a team of computer opponents. In both years the computers won by wide margin. In 2005 all three humans lost, the computers won 2/3 of the total points, the chess engines were commercially available for the humans to study, and the machine hardware used was not a supercomputer, but rather comparable to hardware used in the Arimaa Challenge.\n\nMan-vs.-machine chess matches since 2005 have shown increasing computer dominance. For example, the 2006 Deep Fritz vs. Vladimir Kramnik and 2007 Rybka vs. Jaan Ehlvest matches gave additional advantages to the human player, but the computers (running on commodity hardware) prevailed anyway.\n\nThe Arimaa Engine Interface, developed by Brian Haskin, defines a protocol that allows an Arimaa engine to communicate with a controller.\n\nAccording to the documentation: \"An engine is a program capable of taking the state of an Arimaa game and selecting a legal move to make. A controller is anything that wants to communicate with and control an engine. This could be anything from a simple script to have the engine analyse a single position to a GUI program that allows games to be played with humans or other engines.\"\n\nThe Arimaa Engine Interface includes an implementation of an engine and controller, documentation, and various scripts to control the engine and play games on any website which supports the protocol, including the official Arimaa website.\n\n"}
{"id": "50570748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50570748", "title": "Etibar Babayev", "text": "Etibar Babayev\n\nEtibar Babayev (15 December 1950 Baku) — scientist, tele-journalist, pedagogue. A candidate to art, associate professor. A rector of Teleradio Academy under AzTV. Babayev won the \"Hacı Zeynalabdin Tağıyev\" national award, \"Qızıl qələm\" journalistic award.\n\nEtibar Babayev was born on December 15, 1950 in Baku. Etibar Babayev finished secondary school in 1968, in 1973 he graduated from theatre science faculty Azerbaijan State Art İnstitute named M.Aliyev. He got second higher education on politology in Baku Supreme Party School. Began his career cooperation with Azərbaycan Teleradio verilişləri Komitəsi editorship in 1971. He gained favor of audience as an author and an anchorman of popular telecasts like \"Tələbə klubu\", \"Yeddinci qitə\", \"Sözlü-nəğməli İstanbul\", \"Kanal-6 təqdim edir\". Etibar Babayev worked an instructor in Central Committee of Azerbaijan Komsomol, a chief of notification and mass urbane affairs, an instructor in a department of culture in Central Committee of Azerbaijan Communist Party, a chief of a notification of agitation department in Party Committee of Baku city in 1981-1988. He was elected a deputy of Baku city Sovet for four challenges in 1981-1989. In 1989-1992, he worked as a manager of \"Azərbaycantelefilm\" and a vice-president of Azerbaijan State TV and Radio Organization. Etibar Babayev worked in several responsible posts in Baku Executive Power in 1993-2001. He was a president of independence TV and Radio organization of Space in 2001-2006.\n\nAs a candidate to art, Etibar Babayev also deals with scientific-pedagogical affairs. He was a tutor in Azerbaijan State Culture in 2001 and Art University and later, Baku Slavianic University. From 2009, associate professor E.Babayev works as a head of department in Journalism faculty. He was charged as a rector to newly created TV and Radio Academy under Azərbaycan Televiziya və Radio verilişləri Qapalı Səhmdar Cəmiyyəti.\n\nE.Babayev was honored to \"Hacı Zeynalabdin Tağıyev\" national award, \"Qızıl qələm\" journalistic award, Yusif Mammadaliyev’s medal, and various honorable certificate and diplomas.\n\nHe doesn’t attend any party membership.\n\nBabayev made business trips to USA, England, France, Russia, Spain, Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, Hungary, Austria, Romania, Poland, Turkey, Senegal, Egypt, Vietnamese, Cuba, DRC, Iran, Sweden, Switzerland and other different countries, met with outstanding social-political, scientific and artistic figures, and saw popular faces of business world, and took exclusive interviews. He took part in international conferences, forms in an official group. Babayev is an author of different publicist writings, scientific articles that published in Azerbaijan and abroad, books such as \"Bu da bir imtahandır\", \"Yalana heykəl\", \"Düz söz əyri qulağa necə girər?\" and documentaries that showed on television several times like \"Sağalmaz yara\", \"Birincilər\", \"Bir millət, iki dövlət\", \"Zirvə\", \"Çiçək yağışı\".\n"}
{"id": "51634540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51634540", "title": "Gamest", "text": "Gamest\n\n\"Gamest\" arose from the bimonthly fanzine which was also called edited by .\n\nOn the cover of the first issue of read . Initially it covered arcade games with an emphasis on 2D Shoot 'em ups.\n\nFrom issue 6 on, it appeared monthly and from issue 116 (1994) the magazine was published twice a month.\n\nIn the mid-90s, the magazine covered mainly the then booming beat 'em ups.\n\nIn 1999, the magazine was discontinued without a final issue due to the sudden bankruptcy of the publisher \"Shinseisha\".\n\nThereafter, much of the \"Gamest\" staff transferred to the publisher \"ASCII\" (currently Enterbrain) who launched the arcade game magazine .\n\n\"Gamest\" was subdivided into the following sections:\n\n"}
{"id": "24995014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24995014", "title": "Gangster High", "text": "Gangster High\n\nGangster High is a 2006 South Korean action film written and directed by Park Ki-hyung. \n\nIn 1991, studious soccer enthusiast Sang-ho creates a soccer club called \"Tigers\" along with his friends Jae-gu and Chang-bae. Through Jae-gu, he meets an attractive, rebellious girl named Su-hee, who turns out to be Jong-suk's girlfriend, leader of a gang called TNT. The two gangs soon become embroiled in intense and violent conflict. When Jae-gu is killed in a car accident related to a gang fight with Jong-suk, the Tigers decide to avenge him. The two gangs meet in a billiards club, and, despite the pleas of Su-hee, a vicious and brutal fight ensues. Three people end up dying, and the rest permanently damaged, including some of Sang-ho's friends. Sang-ho, being the person who started the fight and the only one to walk away relatively unscathed, is charged with the murder of the three people and is sent to prison, where he reminisces upon the fact that the Tiger soccer club was initially created for the enjoyment of soccer and friendship.\n\n\"Gangster High\" opened in South Korea in October, 2006, and premiered at the European Film Market in Germany on February 8, 2007. In the United States, Derek Elley of \"Variety\" described it as bleak and violent, but praised it as \"well drawn in all its diversity (and with occasional humor) by a good cast.\" James Mudge of \"Beyond Hollywood\" gave it a positive review: \"Although its premise may sound overly familiar, \"Gangster High\" certainly stands as one of the best teen violence films of recent years, with Park proving that he has not lost his touch when it comes to dealing with tales of troubled youth. Hard-hitting and gripping, it offers a different and arguably more convincing take on the usual themes, and contains enough vicious action to entertain as well as provoke.\"\n\nThe film was distributed in the Netherlands on DVD in 2009 by Splendid Film.\n\n"}
{"id": "38675500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38675500", "title": "Higher School of Communication of Tunis", "text": "Higher School of Communication of Tunis\n\nSup'Com (or SUP'COM or Higher School of Communication of Tunis) () , founded in 1998, is the main school of educating engineers in telecommunications in Tunisia. It is affiliated to the University of Carthage and occupies the advanced ranks in the competitive examination for the access to the engineering studies.\n\nBeyond its national and international radiance, Sup’Com is known for its distinguished academic training and the high level of its skilled graduates and researchers.\n\nAs a school of elites, Sup’Com evenly benefits from the tutelage of both, the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Researchand the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology.\n\nMember of the Réseau Méditerranéen des Ecoles d'Ingénieurs (Mediterranean engineering schools’ network), Sup’Com was admitted since december 2008 as an associated member in the Conférence des Grandes Écoles (CGE), it is furthermore the first foreign school to be associated internationally with the Institut Mines-Télécom.\n\nSup’Com is an engineering school, which main objectives are:\nWith the admission, of the first 150 candidates over 8500, in the competitive examination for the access to the engineering studies, Sup’Com made the choice of quality and the distinguished pedagogical and scientific supervision.\n\nThe biannual teaching is organized into modules provided in diverse forms (integrated courses, practical, customized works and mini projects).\n\nThere are 4 departments in Sup’ Com:\n\nThe supervised practice, important component of engineer’s course, takes place in the diverse laboratories of the university:\n\nSUP' COM awards the following diplomas:\n\n"}
{"id": "36323320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36323320", "title": "Hilary Shuard", "text": "Hilary Shuard\n\nHilary Bertha Shuard CBE (14 November 192824 December 1992) was an internationally known expert on mathematics in primary schools.\n\nShe was deputy principal of Homerton College, Cambridge, England and was president of the Mathematical Association for 1985-1986.\n"}
{"id": "31160936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31160936", "title": "IPDC-UNESCO Prize for Rural Communication", "text": "IPDC-UNESCO Prize for Rural Communication\n\nThe IPDC-UNESCO Prize for Rural Communication is awarded by the UNESCO-sponsored International Programme for the Development of Communication. Its aim is to recognize initiatives for improving communication in rural communities, mainly in developing countries.\n\nThe prize was established in 1985 by the Executive Board of UNESCO and consists of a sum of US$20,000. It is awarded to no more than two winners every two years.\n\nThe winner of the 1985 Prize was the Kheda Communication Project. The prize was won in 1999 by Radio Tanzania, and in 2003 by Radio Toco of Trinidad & Tobago. In 2012 the prize was shared by the Kenyan Arid Lands Information Network (ALIN) and the Nepal Forum of Environmental Journalists.\n"}
{"id": "15155323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15155323", "title": "Instituto Cultural Dominico-Americano", "text": "Instituto Cultural Dominico-Americano\n\nInstituto Cultural Dominico-Americano is an organization based in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. It is a collaboration between the Dominican and US governments. They operate the Colegio Domínico-Americano, (in English, the School of the Dominican American Institute).\n"}
{"id": "612754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612754", "title": "James Samuel Coleman", "text": "James Samuel Coleman\n\nJames Samuel Coleman (May 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995) was an American sociologist, theorist, and empirical researcher, based chiefly at the University of Chicago. He was elected president of the American Sociological Association. He studied the sociology of education and public policy, and was one of the earliest users of the term \"social capital.\" His Foundations of Social Theory influenced sociological theory. His \"The Adolescent Society\" (1961) and \"Coleman Report\" (Equality of Educational Opportunity, 1966) were two of the most cited books in educational sociology. The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory, reshape national education policies, and it influenced public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States.\n\nAs the son of James and Maurine Coleman, he spent his early childhood in Bedford, Indiana, but he moved to Louisville, Kentucky. After graduating in 1944, he enrolled in a small school in Virginia but left to enlist in the US Navy during World War II. Coleman received his bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Purdue University in 1949.\n\nHe initially enrolled to study chemistry but became interested in sociology and continued his graduate studies at Columbia University. In 1955, while studying to receive his Ph.D. from Columbia, he was influenced by Paul Lazarsfeld.\n\nColeman achieved renown with two studies on problem solving: \"An Introduction to Mathematical Sociology\" (1964) and \"Mathematics of Collective Action\" (1973). He taught at Stanford University and the University of Chicago. In 1959, he moved to Johns Hopkins University, where he taught as an associate professor. In 1965 he became involved in Project Camelot, an academic research project funded by the United States military through the Special Operations Research Office to train in counter-insurgency techniques. He eventually became a full professor in social relations until 1973, when he returned to Chicago.\n\nUpon his return, he became the professor and senior study director at the National Opinion Research Center. In 1991, Coleman was elected President of the American Sociological Association. In 2001, Coleman was named among the top 100 American intellectuals, as measured by academic citations, in Richard Posner's book, \"Public Intellectuals: A Study of Decline.\"\n\nColeman is widely cited in the field of sociology of education. In the 1960s, he and several other scholars were commissioned by the US Office of Education, to write a report on educational equality in the US. It was one of the largest studies in history, with more than 650,000 students in the sample. The result was a massive report of over 700 pages. The 1966 report, titled \"Equality of Educational Opportunity\" (otherwise known as the \"Coleman Report\"), fueled debate about \"school effects\" that is still relevant today. The report is commonly presented as evidence that school funding has little effect on student achievement, a key finding of the report and subsequent research. It was found as for physical facilities, formal curricula, and other measurable criteria, there was little difference between black and white schools. Also, a significant gap in the achievement scores between black and white children already existed in the first grade. Despite the similar conditions of black and white schools, the gap became even wider by the end of elementary school. The only consistent variable explaining the differences in score within each racial group or ethnic group was the educational and economic attainment of the parents., meaning that student background and socioeconomic status are more important in determining educational outcomes of a student. Specifically, the attitudes of parents and caregivers at home and peers at school of students toward education. Additionally, differences in the quality of schools and teachers, has a small positive impact on student outcomes. The report led to extensive further research. Modern research has led to similar conclusions.\n\nEric Hanushek criticised the focus on the statistical methodology and the estimation of the impacts of various factors on achievement took attention away from the achievement comparisons in the Coleman Report. The study had tested students around the country, and the differences in achievement by race and region were enormous. The average black twelfth grade student in the rural South was achieving at the level of a seventh grade white in the urban Northeast. At the fiftieth anniversary of the report's publication, Eric Hanushek assessed the closure in the black-white achievement gap. He found that achievement differences had narrowed, largely from improvements in the South, but that at the pace of the previous half century it would take two and a half centuries to close the math achievement gap. \n\nIn 1975, Coleman published new research that further investigated the effects of school busing systems, intended to bring lower-class black students to upper-class, racially integrated schools. Upon advancements in school desegregation, white parents began to move their children out of integrated schools in large numbers. The mass exodus was termed white flight. In 1966, Coleman wrote an article explaining that black students benefited from integrated schooling only if most of the students were white.\n\nColeman's findings regarding \"white flight\" were not well received in some quarters, particularly among some members of the American Sociological Association. In response, efforts sprang up during the mid-1970s to revoke his membership. Still, Coleman remained a member and eventually became its president.\n\nIn \"Foundations of Social Theory\", Coleman discusses his theory of social capital, the set of resources found in family relations and in a community's social organization. Coleman believed that social capital is useful for the cognitive or social development of a child or young person. He discusses three main types of capital: human, physical and social.\n\nHuman capital is an individual's skills, knowledge, and experience, which determine their value in society. Physical capital, being completely tangible and generally a private good, originates from the creation of tools to facilitate production. In addition to social capital, the three types of investments create the three main aspects of society's exchange of capital.\n\nAccording to Coleman, social capital and human capital are often complementary. By having certain skill sets, experiences, and knowledge, an individual can gain social status and so receive more social capital.\n\nWith the exchange of capital, comes Coleman's theories on obligations and expectations. He describes the situation of doing favors for someone as \"credit slips.\" Should an individual need a favor, he is essentially giving someone else a credit slip, which signifies that they will be paid back for their goods and/or services. For an individual to believe that their favor will be reciprocated, Coleman believe there are two vital conditions. There needs to be a level of trustworthiness in a social environment to be able to believe the obligation will be met. Also, the individual needs to take into account the extent of the obligation.\n\nWhile social capital has value in use, it is something that is not easily exchanged. Coleman explores the idea of relative capital. He believed that capital's value was truly dependent on the social environment and the individual. With that being the case, the value of human capital and physical capital will change as well.\n\nColeman also explores the idea that social capital is less easy to invest in than human and physical capital. To invest in physical capital is usually a good decision both financially and economically. To invest in human capital is to make oneself more intelligent and experienced, surely a positive thing. When it comes to social capital, the incentive to invest is not always personally appealing.\n\nAccording to Coleman, when individuals invest in social capital, they are not necessarily investing in themselves. Investment in social capital leads to investment in the social structure, which the capital lies, which, in turn, will benefit those individuals and populations part of that particular social structure.\n\nColeman was a pioneer in the construction of mathematical models in sociology with his book, \"Introduction to Mathematical Sociology\" (1964). His later treatise, \"Foundations of Social Theory\" (1990), made major contributions toward a more rigorous form of theorizing in sociology based on rational choice. Coleman wrote more than thirty books and published numerous articles. He also created an educational corporation that developed and marketed \"mental games\" aimed at improving the abilities of disadvantaged students. Coleman made it a practice to send his most controversial research findings \"to his worst critics\" prior to their publication, calling it \"the best way to ensure validity.\"\n\nAt the time of his death, he was engaged in a long-term study titled the \"High School and Beyond\", which examined the lives and careers of 75,000 people who had been high school juniors and seniors in 1980.\n\nColeman published lasting theories of education, which helped shape the field. With his focus on the allocation of rights, one can understand the conflict between rights. Towards the end of his life, Coleman questioned how to make the education systems more accountable, which caused educators to question their use and interpretation of standardized testing.\n\nColeman's publication of the \"Coleman Report\" included greatly influential findings that pioneered aspects of the desegregation of American public schools. His theories of integration also contributed. He also raised the issue of narrowing the educational gap between those who had money and others. By creating a well-rounded student body, a student's educational experience can be greatly benefited.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45614173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45614173", "title": "Jennifer Taylor (architect)", "text": "Jennifer Taylor (architect)\n\nJennifer Evelyn Taylor (; 12 April 1935 – 7 December 2015) was an Australian architect, professor, critic and author who made a significant contribution to writing on contemporary Australian, Japanese and South Pacific architecture.\n\nAustralian by birth, Taylor began studying architecture at the School of Architecture, Oxford Brookes University after taking a course in nursing. She then completed a B.Arch (1967) and M.Arch (1969) at the University of Washington, Seattle. Her Master of Architecture (History) was in part by thesis entitled, \"An Inquiry into Some Aspects of Recent Unorthodox Trends in Architecture\".\n\nTaylor spent much of her working life in Europe, America and Asia, and taught in architectural schools throughout the world. She was appointed as an academic to the Architecture department of the University of Sydney from 1970 to 1998, and later taught at the Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane. She was awarded the inaugural Royal Australian Institute of Architects (RAIA) National Education Prize in 2000.\n\nTaylor was a founding member of International Council on Monuments and Sites Australia, DOCOMOMO (Australian Working Party for Documentation and Conservation of Buildings, Sites and Neighbourhoods of the Modern Movement) Australia, and the Australian Architectural Association.\n\nTaylor credited the Japanese modernist architect, Fumihiko Maki—whom she first met during a Japan Foundation Professional Fellowship in 1975—as playing a major role in her career. Maki was appointed Taylor’s mentor and after initially looking at contemporary Japanese gardens, she realised, \"I became very interested in contemporary architecture in Japan. I loved it. I just kept going back. I started writing on Japan. I have been influenced, unquestionably, by Japanese work.\"\n\nTaylor was also the first Australian architect to establish a contemporary architectural dialogue with Asia—bringing leading Japanese and Chinese figures to lecture at Sydney University, and travelling to the region and lecturing there herself.\n\nTaylor contributed extensively to international publications, conferences, architectural criticism, and also sat on numerous architectural juries and competitions. She was awarded the inaugural Royal Australian Institute of Architects (RAIA) Marion Mahony Griffin Prize in 1998—a prize established by the NSW Chapter of the Institute of Architects to \"a knowledge a female architect for a distinctive body of architectural work.\"\n\nIn 2010, Taylor was awarded the inaugural Royal Australian Institute of Architects (RAIA) National President’s Prize for her \"lifetime commitment to architecture as a thinker, writer, critic and historian.\"\n\n\nTaylor's father, James Bogle, was a practicing doctor who also had an early career as a cricketer for Australia. She had two children. Her partner, architect and planner James Conner, survives her.\n"}
{"id": "34707531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34707531", "title": "John D'Agata", "text": "John D'Agata\n\nJohn D’Agata (born 1975 on Cape Cod, Massachusetts) is an American essayist. He is the author of six books of nonfiction, including \"The Next American Essay\" (2003), \"The Lost Origins of the Essay\" (2009) and \"The Making of the American Essay\"—all part of the trilogy of essay anthologies called \"A New History of the Essay.\" He also wrote \"The Lifespan of a Fact\", \"Halls of Fame,\" and \"About a Mountain.\"\n\nHe's the recipient of fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Endowment for the Arts, the Howard Foundation and the Lannan Foundation. He is the M.F. Carpenter Professor of Writing in the Nonfiction Writing Program at the University of Iowa.\n\nAfter growing up in Boston and on Cape Cod, Massachusetts, D’Agata attended the liberal preparatory school Northfield Mount Hermon on a scholarship. He graduated from Hobart College with a bachelor's degree in classics and English literature.\n\nIn 1998 D’Agata moved to Iowa City, where he went on to complete his MFA in poetry at the University of Iowa Writers’ Workshop, and then an additional MFA in nonfiction at the University’s Nonfiction Writing Program. He subsequently taught writing and research at a number of different schools, including Colgate University, Columbia University, and the California Institute of the Arts in Los Angeles, before returning to the University of Iowa in 2006, where he now directs the Nonfiction Writing Program.\n\nD’Agata is the editor of a 3-volume series on the history of the essay, entitled \"A New History of the Essay\". It is made up of the volumes: \"The Next American Essay\" (2003), \"The Lost Origins of the Essay\" (2009), and \"The Making of the American Essay\" (2016) for which the critic James Wood provided a foreword in which he writes:For well over a decade now, John D’Agata has been the renovator-in-chief of the American essay. As practitioner and theorist, writer and anthologist, as example and the enabler of examples, D’Agata has refused to yield to the idea of non-fiction as stable, fixed, already formed. . . . Instead, he has pushed the essay to yield more of itself, to find within itself an enactment of its own etymology—an essaying, a trying, a perpetual attempt at something (after the French verb essayer, to try). He has emphasized that the essay should make, and not merely take; that it should gamble with the fictive and not just trade in the real; that it should entertain uncertainty as often as it hosts opinion; that the essay can be as lyrical, as fragmented, as self-interrupting, and as self-conscious as the most experimental fiction or verse.D’Agata is also the author of \"Halls of Fame\" is a collection of experimental nonfiction about which David Foster Wallace wrote, \"In nothing else recent is the compresence of shit and light that is America so vividly felt and evoked,\" calling D'Agata \"one of the most significant U.S. writers to emerge in the past few years.\" \"About a Mountain\" is a book-length rumination on the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository. \"The New York Times Book Review\" called the book \"a breathtaking piece of writing\" and listed it among the 100 best nonfiction books ever written.\n\nCalled by NPR \"the most improbably entertaining book ever written,\" \"The Lifespan of a Fact\" is a retrospectively reconstructed and embellished exchange between D'Agata and his one-time fact-checker, Jim Fingal. The book illustrates their heated seven-year battle over a single essay by D'Agata that was ultimately published in The Believer magazine. In the book, D'Agata and Fingal discuss whether it is appropriate to change facts in writing that is both nonfiction and art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33349935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33349935", "title": "John Friend (yogi)", "text": "John Friend (yogi)\n\nJohn Friend (born May 30, 1959) is an American yoga teacher and creator of Anusara Yoga.\n\nFriend first learned of yoga at the age of 8 in Youngstown, Ohio when his mother, Ann Friend, read him stories of yogis with hidden knowledge and supernatural powers. By age 13, he began studying yoga philosophy with the Bhagavad Gita and Upanishads, and also began an asana practice by following Swami Satchidananda's book \"Integral Hatha Yoga.\"\n\nAt 17, Friend began a regular practice of sitting meditation with a Sufi group as well as members of the Theosophical Society. At age 19 he moved to Houston, Texas where he studied various styles of hatha yoga including Ananda Yoga, Sivananda Yoga, and Kundalini Yoga. He also began teaching yoga part-time while working as a financial analyst.\n\nIn 1984, Friend began practicing the Ashtanga Vinyasa Yoga Primary Series and, in 1986, quit his analyst job to teach yoga full-time. In 1987, Friend graduated to Secondary Series while studying with Ashtanga founder K. Pattabhi Jois in California where he also studied with Iyengar Yoga teacher Judith Lasater. That same year, Friend attended an Iyengar Yoga convention in Boston, where he met B.K.S. Iyengar, after which Friend focused his studies and practice mainly in Iyengar Yoga. Between 1990 and 1995, John earned Iyengar's Introductory and Junior Intermediate teaching certificates and also served on the Board of Directors for the Iyengar Yoga National Association before departing in 1997 to found Anusara Yoga.\n\nFriend set up Anusara as a style of hatha yoga founded on a Tantric philosophy of intrinsic goodness and based on bio mechanical principles of alignment. Friend derived the name \"Anusara\" as meaning 'flowing with Grace,' 'flowing with Nature' and 'following your heart,'\" as interpreted from the Sanskrit \"\", meaning \"custom, usage, natural state or condition\". Founded on Iyengar's system of alignment, Friend streamlined everything into five \"Universal Principles of Alignment\", which corresponded to other quinary aspects of the world, such as the five elements, five regular polygons, five fingers on the hand, and so on. Friend also developed refinements to his quinary system, which included what he called \"the Three A's of Anusara\" (attitude, alignment and action), seven energy loops that comprise the human body, and various cues to assist in teaching.\n\nAnusara's philosophical system drew from Friend's knowledge in Indian schools of thought, including Samkhya, Advaita Vedanta, Vajrayana Buddhism, and non-dual Hindu Tantric schools, particularly non-dual Shaivism, which he refers to as Shiva-Shakti Tantra. Friend also incorporates his other studies, such as Taoism, Sufism, Kabbalah, Theosophy, Wicca, quantum physics, sacred geometry, and western psychology.\n\nIn February 2012, an anonymous tipster published accusations on \"jfexposed.com\" (short for \"John Friend exposed\"), which later appeared on the blog \"YogaDork\". These allegations of mismanagement and abuse were later reported on at length in an article in \"The Washington Post\". The four key accusations against Friend were:\n\n\nFriend announced in March 2012 that he would step down from the leadership, while retaining the sole ownership, of Anusara Yoga to take a short leave of absence to consider his next steps in the yoga community. In September 2012, Friend returned to teaching, offering a set hatha yoga sequence of 54 asanas called \"The Roots\", originally created by Desi and Micah Springer, owners of Vital Yoga in Denver, CO. In 2013, Friend and Desi Springer co-founded Sridaiva with and rebranded their postural alignment method as \"The Bowspring.\"\n\nIn 2013, John Friend began working with Colorado-based yoga teaching sisters Desi and Micah Springer to help systematize a yoga methodology they had developed. Originally called \"The Roots\" practice, the yoga system was rebranded in 2013 as Sridaiva (Sanskrit for \"divine destiny\") as coupled with an alignment methodology called Bowspring. Friend teaches the Bowspring method at Vital Yoga Studio as well as on international teaching tours with Springer.\n"}
{"id": "12038990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12038990", "title": "Krishna Reddy (artist)", "text": "Krishna Reddy (artist)\n\nKrishna Reddy (15 July 1925 – 22 August 2018) was an Indian printmaker, sculptor and teacher. He was considered a master intaglio printer and known for viscosity printing.\n\nKrishna Reddy was born in 15 July 1925, in a small village called Nandanoor, near Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh, in India.\n\nReddy studied at Visva-Bharati University's Kala Bhavana (Institute of Fine Arts) with Nandalal Bose, from 1941 to 1946, and graduated with a degree in fine arts. From 1947 to 1949, he was head of the art section at Kalakshetra Foundation and was also teaching art at the Montessori Teachers' Training Centre in Madras. It was at this time that he took interest in sculpture and painting.\n\nIn 1949, he moved to London, and continued his sculpture studies with Henry Moore at the University of London's Slade School of Fine Arts. In 1950, Reddy moved to Paris and met artist Constantin Brâncuși. Through Brâncuși, he was introduced to cafe discussions on art and met many famous artists during studio visits. During his time in Paris he studied sculpture under Ossip Zadkine and engraving under Stanley William Hayter.\n\nIn 1957, he traveled to Academia Di Belle Arti Di Brera (Brera Academy) in Milan to study under Marino Marini.\n\nReddy was considered a master in intaglio printmaking and after 1965 was an associate director at Hayter's Atelier 17. Atelier 17, a thriving artist workshop was founded in 1927 by Hayter and was originally located in Paris; however between 1939 and 1940 the workshop moved to New York City and in 1950 back to Paris. Atelier 17 has always been a meeting place to experiment with their art practices for both European and American artists including Joan Miró, Pablo Picasso, Alberto Giacometti, Juan Cardenas, Constantin Brâncuși, and Zarina Hashmi.\n\nReddy's technique and style distinguished him as an important printmaker. Reddy's prints are abstract, created with subtle grid-like designs on plates with intricate texturisations. The myriad complex colour that he introduced in prints are marked by a contemplative approach to the infinite mysteries of nature. While working at Atelier 17, Reddy was instrumental in developing a new printing process to produce multi-coloured prints from a single printing matrix by exploiting the viscosity and tackiness of the inks, subsequently named viscosity printing.\n\nReddy received the Padma Shri award in 1972, in recognition of his distinguished contributions to art.\n\nReddy was a guest professor and lecturer at many universities in the United States including Maryland Institute College of Art, Pratt Institute, Ruskin College School of Fine Art and Drawing, University of Texas and many more.\n\nAmong Reddy's pupils is the painter and printmaker Elaine Breiger.\n\nKrishna Reddy died on 22 August 2018 in New York, at the age of 93. He is survived by his wife, artist Judy Blum Reddy, and daughter Aparna.\n\n"}
{"id": "3092718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3092718", "title": "Lee Foundation", "text": "Lee Foundation\n\nLee Foundation is Singapore's largest private charitable foundation. It was founded in 1952 by philanthropist and businessman Lee Kong Chian, and has since supported various educational causes, healthcare and medical endowments as well as disaster relief efforts. It is run by a board composed of Lee's descendents and non-family members. The foundation is also shareholder of OCBC Bank and Singapore Press Holdings.\n\nThe Lee Foundation was established in March 1952 with a funding of $3.5 million from business magnate Lee Kong Chian. Lee had been donating to schools like Kuo Chuan Girls’ School, Nan Chiau Girls’ High School, Chinese High School, Methodist Girls’ School, St Margaret's School, Singapore Chinese Girls’ School, Anglo Chinese School (ACS), the University of Malaya and Nanyang University. He had also donated to community institutions such as the Hokkien Huay Kuan Building, the Chinese Swimming Club and the National Library. Several institutions took on the name of Lee Kong Chian's father, Lee Kuo Chuan, as Lee had initially requested them not to use his name. Examples of institutions and buildings named after the elder Lee includes the Kuo Chuan Presbyterian School, Lee Kuo Chuan auditoriums in ACS (Barker Road) and Maris Stella High School, indoor stadium of Anglican High School, Lee Kuo Chuan Nursery Home and the Lee Kuo Chuan Creche. Lee Foundation was also registered in Malaysia in 1960. It was reported that Lee Kong Chian transferred half his shares in Lee Rubber Group to the foundation in 1964, it is alleged that he had bequeathed half of his wealth as proceeds to the foundation in his will.\n\nLee Seng Gee, eldest son of Lee Kong Chian and chairman of the Lee Rubber Group, was the chairman of the foundation from 1957 till his death in 2016. Board members include members of the Lee family such as businessman Lee Seng Tee (second son of Lee Kong Chian), YS Lee, Lee Han Shih (investor and former journalist for the \"Business Times\"), Lee ST, (director of OCBC),\n\nSince its creation up till 2015, the foundation donated approximately S$1 billion to various causes, regardless of race, language, religion, nationality, and geographical location. Seventy-five percent of that amount went to education. Notable contributions included the following\n\nThe Lee Kong Chian NUS-Stanford Initiative on Southeast Asia, founded in 2007, establishes a Distinguished Visiting Fellowship on Southeast Asia to help advance scholarly and policy-relevant consideration of this region. \n\nIn 2015, the sister foundation in Malaysia also donated a total of RM50 million to Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman (UTAR) for the construction of its new campus building in Sungai Long, Kuala Lumpur. In honor of the foundation's founder, the university has named its engineering and science faculty as the Lee Kong Chian Faculty of Engineering and Science.\n\nThe generosity of the foundation has earned them many accolades such as the Distinguished Patron of the Arts Award by the National Arts Council for several years, and the National Volunteerism and Philanthropy Award Special Recognition Award in 2004 for Pioneers of philanthropy work in Singapore. Chairman Lee Seng Gee was awarded the Distinguished Service Order by the President of Singapore. In line with its original mission, the Lee Foundation continues to drive and promote education in socially relevant disciplines, e.g. in health and medical-related fields, and especially for disadvantaged students in Singapore, Malaysia and worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "10063044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10063044", "title": "List of school-related attacks", "text": "List of school-related attacks\n\nThis is a list of attacks that have occurred on school property or related primarily to school issues or events. A narrow definition of the word \"attacks\" is used for this list so as to exclude warfare, public attacks (as in political protests), accidental shootings, and suicides and murder-suicides by rejected spouses or suitors. Incidents that involved only staff who work at the school have been classified as belonging at List of workplace killings. It also excludes events where no injuries take place, if an attack is foiled. Accounts without reliable sources will be deleted.\n\nThe list is divided into three main chronological sections according to school classification: primary, secondary, and post-secondary. Additionally, a list is provided for foiled school-related attack plots that resulted in a conviction of perpetrator(s).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30997145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30997145", "title": "Maintenance management professional", "text": "Maintenance management professional\n\nThe maintenance management professional designation (MMP) is a registered professional designation in Canada issued on the authority of the President of Plant Engineering and Maintenance Association of Canada (PEMAC) to individuals who successfully complete a series of eight courses and who are members in good standing of PEMAC. The series of courses is designed to provide participants with an understanding of the various concepts necessary to be an effective maintenance and physical asset management professional. At this time, the courses are offered through 14 training institutions in Canada.\n\nThe program is broken down into a series of 8 courses, or modules, as follows:\n\n\nEnterprise asset management\n"}
{"id": "11037364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11037364", "title": "Maria Newell", "text": "Maria Newell\n\nMaria Newell Gützlaff (4 August 1794 – 16 February 1831) was an English missionary, teacher and translator.\n\nMaria was born at Stepney, Middlesex, in England, the child of Samuel Newell, tallow chandler, and Mary Duchesne.\n\nMaria studied Chinese under Robert Morrison during his furlough in the 1820s, and was appointed the first female missionary of the London Missionary Society (LMS). The plan was for her to carry on female education among the Chinese immigrants. Before this time sending unmarried female missionaries was absolutely unheard of. She sailed from England on 11 April 1827 (in the company of Maria Dyer) and reached Malacca, Straits Settlements, on 26 August 1827.\n\nOn 26 November 1829 she was married to Karl Gutzlaff, after their marriage she went with her husband to Siam on 11 February 1830. \"These two devoted themselves to studying Siamese and translating, hardly allowing themselves time to eat or sleep, and daily employing a number of copyists. Thus they succeeded in evolving a very imperfect translation of the whole Bible in Siamese, a considerable portion of it into the Lao and Cambodian languages, and preparing a dictionary and grammar of the Siamese and Cambodian. These translations were later delivered by Mr. Gutzlaff to Mr. Robinson of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions and the dictionary was taken over by Mr. Jones of the Baptist Board and became the foundation of the dictionary later prepared by Eliza Grew Jones.\"\n\nOn 16 February 1831 Maria gave birth to twin daughters at Bangkok, Siam. She died a few hours later. One child died at birth, the other was left for a time with her Siamese nurse, later, when it became possible she was put in the care of a Mrs. Thomson in Singapore, she lived about four months.\n\nMaria and the small children were buried by special permit at the upper side of the Portuguese Consulate gate. This plot continued to be the burial ground of the missionaries and others until King Mongkut made a grant for this purpose in 1853, and in 1893 this earliest cemetery which had eventually been bought by the Baptist Mission, was sold and the graves moved to the new Protestant Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "51059801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51059801", "title": "Media portrayals of the Canadian Indian residential school system", "text": "Media portrayals of the Canadian Indian residential school system\n\nThe list of media portrayals of the Canadian Indian residential school system includes examples of works created to highlight lived experiences the Canadian Indian residential school system, a network of schools established by the Canadian government and administered by church officials to assimilate Indigenous students.\n"}
{"id": "44436713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44436713", "title": "Michael Chatfield", "text": "Michael Chatfield\n\nMichael Chatfield (1930s-2004) was an American economist, accounting historian, and Emeritus Professor of Accounting at the Southern Oregon University, known for his work on the history of accounting and accounting thought, and particularly for his \"History of Accounting: An International Encyclopedia,\" edited with Richard Vangermeersch.\n\nChatfield obtained his BA and MBA from the University of Washington, and his DBA for the University of Oregon in 1966, and his Certified Public Accountant degree in the Los Angeles Chapter in 1968.\n\nAfter his graduation at the University of Washington Chatfield had started his career in industry at the Burroughs Corporation. After obtaining his Doctor of Business Administration in 1966 he joined the University of California, where he was appointed Assistant Professor of Accounting, and in 1970 Professor of Accounting. After a long period at the University of California he moved to the Southern Oregon University, where he became Professor of Accounting.\n\nChatfield was awarded the Hourglass Award of the Academy of Accounting Historians twice, in 1974 solo and in 1996 with Richard Vangermeersch.\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "22754161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22754161", "title": "Minister of Higher Education and Training (South Africa)", "text": "Minister of Higher Education and Training (South Africa)\n\nThe Minister of Higher Education and Training is a Minister in the Cabinet of South Africa, with the responsibility of overseeing the higher education and training components of the Department of Education. Before 10 May 2009 the portfolio formed part of the Ministry of Education, with responsibility for both basic education and higher education, the former now being the responsibility of the Minister of Basic Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "20912119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20912119", "title": "Museo Pambata", "text": "Museo Pambata\n\nThe Museo Pambata (\"Children's Museum\" or \"Museum for Children\") is a children's museum in the Ermita district of Manila, near Rizal Park, in the Philippines. It is located in the former Elks Club Building, built in 1910, along Roxas Boulevard at the corner of South Drive.\n\nThe Museo Pambata is a children's interactive museum. Unlike traditional museums where items are stored behind glass and touching is highly discouraged, Museo Pambata invites visitors to learn with the exhibits by using their total senses. It envisions itself as a discovery museum and resource center promoting Filipino global culture, children's advocacy programs, and creative educational programs with linkages to global communities. The museum also has regular programs and events for various sectors.\n\nOpened in 1994, Museo Pambata is dream come true of Nina Lim-Yuson, an early childhood educator and mother of four, who once brought her young children to the Boston Children’s Museum in America. They had so much fun with the museum's hands-on exhibits that she wished there was a similar place back home where her kids - and the millions of Filipino children - can learn and have fun at the same time.\n\nIn March 1993, Yuson, together with her mother, former Department of Social Welfare and Development secretary Estefania Aldaba-Lim, presented a proposal of their dream museum, to be situated in the historical Elks Club Building in Manila, to then Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim. Much to their joy and surprise, he readily approved it.\n\nThe Museo Pambata officers were elected in the first Board of Trustees meeting held in June 1993. Educators, visual artists, architects, museum workers and other professionals met regularly to brainstorm. Concepts were then translated into several theme rooms designed and produced pro bono by architect and stage designer Joselito Tecson.\n\nIn December 1993, the City Council of Manila, in a memorandum of agreement (MOA) granted the Museo Pambata a 10-year-free-of-lease-use of the Elks Club Building. The funds raised by the board of trustees were used to start its rehabilitation.\n\nIn March 1994, the recognition dinner for Museo's first Ninongs and Ninangs, (sponsors who gave one million pesos each) namely Luis H. Lim Foundation, Juan and Lualhati Cojuangco Foundation, A.Y. Foundation, Petron Corporation, Fe S. Panlilio, Don Emilio T. Yap, Helena Z. Benitez, Security Bank and Trust Company, Landbank and GSIS.\n\nFinally, on December 21, 1994, after a year of preparatory work, the museum opened its doors to children, youth and parents as the country's pioneering children's museum.\n\nWith a strong leadership, a definite plan of action and imminent success, the list of Ninongs and Ninangs has grown longer: Department of Tourism, PAGCOR, Department of Environment and Natural Resources, Department of Health, Sen. Ramon Magsaysay, Jr., Consuelo Alger Foundation, Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office, Coca-Cola Foundation, Development Bank of the Philippines, PHINMA Group, Splash Foundation, Aldaba-Lim Foundation, WS Family Foundation, Sen. Francis Pangilinan, E. Zobel Foundation, Globe Telecom, Inc., C Com Foundation, and Ford Foundation Philippines.\n\nIn March 2012, Museo Pambata was shortlisted and received a Special Commendation from the jury of the First Children’s Museum Award in Bologna, Italy “for inspiring the creation of new children’s museums in the Philippines and Asia.”\n\nMuseo Pambata also received a Best Soft Power Cultural Organization nomination in the 2016 Leading Cultural Destinations Awards (“the Oscars for museums”)\n\nThere are eight theme rooms in Museo Pambata, namely:\n\n\nThe museum also has a children's library, changing exhibits hall, gift shop, three venues for various events, playground, and parking space.\n\nMuseo Pambata’s educational programs and special activities are anchored on the advocacy of children’s rights, primarily on their right to education, health, recreation, and mental and physical development.\n\nAn outstanding activity held in the Karapatan Hall, an area in the museum dedicated to children’s rights, is the Rights of the Child Awareness Tournament in 1995. It was followed by Mag-ROCK Tayo! (Rights Of the Child Kontest) in 2001-2002. In cooperation with the Council for the Welfare of Children (CWC), Plan International, UNICEF, Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), Department of Education (DepEd), and the Manila City schools, these projects familiarized children with their basic rights as stated in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nKanino ba ang CRC? was a three-day children’s summit held in November 2009 to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The summit brought together 50 children who are living in different, often difficult situations. The summit aimed to raise awareness on the Convention on the Rights of the Child by posing the question “Whose responsibility is the CRC?”. Children participants, in plenary and discussions in workshops, shared their views of the rights and responsibilities of the child and crafted messages to people and agencies concerned. The summit was organized with the help of the DSWD, UNICEF, National Council of Social Development, Children’s Lab, CHILDHOPE Asia-Philippines, and other private donors.\n\nStarted in 1995, the Mobile Library Program is a reading campaign for the economically disadvantaged children and out-of-school youth of Manila. It aims to impart the value of reading to children through storytelling and book-lending sessions. Six years later, the Mobile Library van was inaugurated through a grant from Ford Foundation Philippines. It is a six-wheeler roving library with over 3,000 children’s books and other learning aids for the benefit of the children of Manila and neighboring cities. In 2011, the van was refurbished through the help of Atty. Ging Gonzalez-Montinola and Pilipinas Hino, Inc.\n\nIn line with the Philippine Centennial celebration in 1998, Museo Pambata launched Aklat: Karapatan at Kapangyarihan para sa Kabataan (The Book: The Right and Empowerment of the Youth) or Aklat:KKK. It had two components: the outreach and the in-house programs. Four minilibraries were turned over to the Manila barangays as part of the outreach component, while storytelling sessions became regular Friday and Saturday activities at the Museo Pambata Library and Resource Center.\n\nIn 1999, the Office of Manila Mayor Lito Atienza and Museo Pambata launched Sa Aklat Sisikat!, a Manila-wide literacy campaign to promote the habit of reading among children in Manila’s public schools. This innovative pilot campaign addressed the alarming decline in reading abilities and literacy rate in the country, particularly among public schoolchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "28035101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28035101", "title": "Museum of Science and the Cosmos", "text": "Museum of Science and the Cosmos\n\nThe Museum of Science and the Cosmos (), is an astronomy, technology, and science museum located in the city of San Cristóbal de La Laguna on Tenerife island, in the Spanish Canary Islands of Macaronesia. \n\nIt belongs to the Cabildo de Tenerife and the Tenerife Organization of Museums and Centers. The museum opened in 1993 under the initiative of the Cabildo and the Instituto de Astrofisica de Canarias (IAC). \n\nIt is considered the primary astronomy and science museum of the Canary Islands and the Macaronesian archipelago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1561691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561691", "title": "National Council of Teachers of Mathematics", "text": "National Council of Teachers of Mathematics\n\nThe National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM) was founded in 1920. It has grown to be the world's largest organization concerned with mathematics education, serving members throughout the United States and Canada.\n\nThe National Council of Teachers of Mathematics presents itself as \"the public voice of mathematics education, supporting teachers to ensure equitable mathematics learning of the highest quality for all students through vision, leadership, professional development, and research.\"\n\nNCTM holds annual national and regional conferences for teachers and publishes five journals. Its published standards have been highly influential in the direction of mathematics education in the United States and Canada.\n\nNCTM publishes five journals. All are available in print and online versions.\n\n\"Teaching Children Mathematics\", an official journal of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM), supports improvement of pre-K–6 mathematics education by serving as a resource for teachers so as to provide more and better mathematics for all students. It is a forum for the exchange of mathematics idea, activities, and pedagogical strategies, and or sharing and interpreting research.\n\n\"Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School\", an official journal of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, supports the improvement of 5–9 mathematics education by serving as a resource for practicing and prospective teachers, as well as supervisors and teacher educators. It is a forum for the exchange of mathematics idea, activities, and pedagogical strategies, and or sharing and interpreting research.\n\n\"Mathematics Teacher\", an official NCTM journal, is devoted to improving mathematics instruction for grades 8–14 and supporting teacher education programs. It provides a forum for sharing activities and pedagogical strategies, deepening understanding of mathematical ideas, and linking mathematical education research to practice.\n\n\"Mathematics Teacher Educator\" contributes to building a professional knowledge base for mathematics teacher educators that stems from, develops, and strengthens practitioner knowledge. The journal provides a means for practitioner knowledge related to the preparation and support of teachers of mathematics to be not only public, shared, and stored, but also verified and improved over time (Hiebert, Gallimore, and Stigler 2002).\n\nNCTM does not conduct research in mathematics education, but it does publish the \"Journal for Research in Mathematics Education\" (\"JRME\"), the most influential periodical in mathematics education research worldwide and the fourth most-cited educational research journal of any kind. Summaries of the most important findings in mathematics educational research in regard to current practices can be found on their website. \"JRME\" is devoted to the interests of teachers of mathematics and mathematics education at all levels—preschool through adult. \"JRME\" is a forum for disciplined inquiry into the teaching and learning of mathematics. The editors encourage the submission of a variety of manuscripts: reports of research, including experiments, case studies, surveys, philosophical studies, and historical studies; articles about research, including literature reviews and theoretical analyses; brief reports of research; critiques of articles and books; and brief commentaries on issues pertaining to research.\n\nNCTM has published a series of math Standards outlining a vision for school mathematics in the USA and Canada. In 1989, NCTM developed the \"Curriculum and Evaluation Standards for School Mathematics,\" followed by the \"Professional Standards for Teaching Mathematics\" (1991) and the \"Assessment Standards for School Mathematics\" (1995). Education officials lauded these math standards, and the National Science Foundation funded several projects to develop curricula consistent with recommendations of the standards. The Department of Education cited several of these programs as \"exemplary\". However, implementation of the reform has run into strong criticism and opposition, including parental revolts and the creation of antireform organizations such as Mathematically Correct and HOLD. These organizations object especially to reform curricula that greatly decrease attention to the practice and memorization of basic skills and facts. Critics of the reform include a contingent of vocal mathematicians, and some other mathematicians have expressed at least some serious criticism of the reformers in the past.\n\nIn 2000, NCTM released the updated \"Principles and Standards for School Mathematics\".\n\"Principles and Standards\" is widely considered to be a more balanced and less controversial vision of reform than its predecessor.\n\nIn 1944, NCTM created a postwar plan to help World War II have a lasting effect on math education. Grades 1-6 were considered crucial years to build the foundations of math concepts with the main focus on algebra. In the war years, algebra had one understood purpose: to help the military and industries with the war effort. Math educators hoped to help their students see the need for algebra in the life of an everyday citizen. The report outlined three strategies that helped math educators emphasize the everyday usage of algebra. First, teachers focused on the meanings behind concepts. Before, teachers were expected to use either the Drill or the Meaning Theory. Now, teachers gave students purpose behind every concept while providing an ample number of problems. Second, teachers abandoned the informal technique of teaching. This technique was popular during the 1930s and continued during the war, and in essence depended on what the students wanted to learn, based on their interests and needs. Instead, math teachers approached the material in an organized manner. The thinking was that Math itself had a very distinct organization that could not be compromised simply because the student was uninterested in the matter. Third, teachers learned to adapt to the students by offering the proper practice students needed in order to be successful.\nAfter the sixth year, seventh and eighth grades were considered key in ensuring students learned concepts, and were increasingly standardized for all pupils. During these years, teachers verified all key concepts learned in the previous years were mastered, while preparing students for the sequential math courses offered in high school. The army credited poor performance of males during the war to the men forgetting math concepts; it was recommended that reinforcing past concepts learned would solve this problem. The report lists the organization of the topics that should be taught in these years. \"(1) number and computation; (2) the geometry of everyday life; (3) graphic representation; (4) an introduction to the essentials of elementary algebra (formula and equation).\" At the same time, these years were meant to help students gain critical thinking skills applicable to every aspect of life. In middle school, students should gain maturity in math, and confidence in past material.\nIn ninth grade, NCTM expressed the need for a two track curriculum for students in large schools. Those who have a greater desire to study math would go on one track, studying algebra. Those who did not have a large interest in math would go another route, studying general mathematics, which eliminated the problem of students being held back.\nFinally, grades 10-12 built math maturity. In the tenth year, courses focused on geometry through algebraic uses. The eleventh year focused on a continuation of more advanced algebra topics. These topics were more advanced than those discussed in the ninth grade. However, if the student took an advanced algebra class during the ninth year, then he took two of the semester classes offered the twelfth year.\n\nNCTM participated in promoting the adoption of the \"New Mathematics\" also known at that time as \"Modern Mathematics\". In 1960, NCTM with the financial support of the National Science Foundation, conducted eight Regional Orientation Conferences in Mathematics in various parts of the United States, pushing to \"make a concerted effort toward rapid improvement of school mathematics\". In 1961 it issued a report \"The Revolution in School Mathematics\" subtitled \"A Challenge for Administrators and Teachers\". \n\nMorris Kline, a Professor of Mathematics, asserted in his book \"Why Johnny Can't Add\" that \"The Revolution in School Mathematics\" described the New Math curricula as a necessary milestone for establishing new and improved mathematics programs, and \"implied that administrators who failed to adopt the reforms were guilty of indifference or inactivity\". Most school administrators \"did not have the broad scientific background to evaluate the proposed innovations\", so they faced the choice of either adopting one of the modern programs, or admit that they are not competent to judge the merits of any one. Ultimately, \"many principals and superintendents urged the modern curricula on their teachers just to show parents and school boards that they were alert and active\".\n\nKline critiqued the \"Modern Mathematics\" approach to mathematics education and disparaged the adoption of the term \"Modern Mathematics\" as \"pure propaganda\". He noted that \"traditional connotes antiquity, inadequacy, sterility, and is a term of censure. Modern connotes the up-to-date, relevant, and vital\".\n\nThe controversial 1989 NCTM Standards called for more emphasis on conceptual understanding and problem solving informed by a constructivist understanding of how children learn. The increased emphasis on concepts required decreased emphasis on direct instruction of facts and algorithms. This decrease of traditional rote learning was sometimes understood by both critics and proponents of the standards to mean elimination of basic skills and precise answers, but NCTM has refuted this interpretation.\n\nIn reform mathematics, students are exposed to algebraic concepts such as patterns and the commutative property as early as first grade. Standard arithmetic methods are not taught until children have had an opportunity to explore and understand how mathematical principles work, usually by first inventing their own methods for solving problems and sometimes ending with children's guided discovery of traditional methods. The Standards called for a de-emphasis of complex calculation drills.\n\nThe standards set forth a democratic vision that for the first time set out to promote equity and mathematical power as a goal for all students, including women and underrepresented minorities. The use of calculators and manipulatives was encouraged and rote memorization were de-emphasized. The 1989 standards encouraged writing in order to learn expression of mathematical ideas. All students were expected to master enough mathematics to succeed in college, and rather than defining success by rank order, uniform, high standards were set for all students. Explicit goals of standards based education reform were to require all students to pass high standards of performance, to improve international competitiveness, eliminate the achievement gap and produce a productive labor force. Such beliefs were considered congruent with the democratic vision of outcome-based education and standards based education reform that all students will meet standards. The U.S. Department of Education named several standards-based curricula as \"exemplary\", though a group of academics responded in protest with an ad taken out in the Washington Post, noting selection was made largely on which curricula implemented the standards most extensively rather than on demonstrated improvements in test scores.\n\nThe standards soon became the basis for many new federally funded curricula such as the Core-Plus Mathematics Project and became the foundation of many local and state curriculum frameworks. Although the standards were the consensus of those teaching mathematics in the context of real life, they also became a lightning rod of criticism as \"math wars\" erupted in some communities that were opposed to some of the more radical changes to mathematics instruction such as Mathland's Fantasy Lunch and what some dubbed \"rainforest algebra\". Some students complained that their new math courses placed them into remedial math in college, though later research found students from traditional curricula were going into remedial math in even greater numbers. (See Andover debate.)\n\nIn the United States, curricula are set at the state or local level. The California State Board of Education was one of the first to embrace the 1989 standards, and also among the first to move back towards traditional standards.\n\nThe controversy surrounding the 1989 standards paved the way for revised standards which sought more clarity and balance. In 2000, NCTM used a consensus process involving mathematicians, teachers, and educational researchers to revise its standards with the release of the Principles and Standards for School Mathematics, which replaced all preceding publications. The new standards were organized around six principles (Equity, Curriculum, Teaching, Learning, Assessment, and Technology) and ten strands, which included five content areas (Number and Operations, Algebra, Geometry, Measurement, and Data Analysis and Probability) and five processes (Problem Solving, Reasoning and Proof, Communication, Connections, and Representation). \"Principles and Standards\" was not perceived to be as radical as the 1989 standards and did not engender significant criticism. The new standards have been widely used to inform textbook creation, state and local curricula, and current trends in teaching.\n\nIn September 2006, NCTM released \"Curriculum Focal Points for Prekindergarten through Grade 8 Mathematics: A Quest for Coherence\". In the Focal Points, NCTM identifies what it believes to be the most important mathematical topics for each grade level, including the related ideas, concepts, skills, and procedures that form the foundation for understanding and lasting learning. In the Focal Points, NCTM made it clear that the standard algorithms were to be included in arithmetic instruction.\n\nMathematics curricula in the United States are often described as “a mile wide and an inch deep” when compared with curricula from other countries. State content expectations per grade level range anywhere between 26 and 89 topics. At just three per grade (plus a few additional \"connection\" topics), the focal points offer more than headings for long lists, providing instead descriptions of the most significant mathematical concepts and skills at each grade level and identifying important connections to other topics. NCTM believes that organizing a curriculum around these described focal points, with a clear emphasis on the processes that Principles and Standards addresses in the Process Standards—communication, reasoning, representation, connections, and, particularly, problem solving—can provide students with a connected, coherent, ever expanding body of mathematical knowledge and ways of thinking.\n\nThe Focal Points were one of the documents used in creating the 2010 Common Core State Standards, which have been adopted by most states as the basis for new math curricula.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58206919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58206919", "title": "Observatory on Digital Communication", "text": "Observatory on Digital Communication\n\nThe Observatory on Digital Communication (OCCAM) was established in 1996 by UNESCO in Milan, with the Agreements signed by the Director General, Federico Mayor and Mayor Marco Formentini in June 1996. The acronym stands for Observatory for Cultural and Audiovisual Communication in the Mediterranean.\n\nSince 2003, OCCAM has been associated with the United Nations \"Department of Public Information\", while in 2005 it received Special Consultative Status at the UN's Social and Economic Council (ECOSOC). Since 2006 OCCAM is leader of the \"e-service for development\" Community of Expertise within the \"Global Alliance for Information and Communications Technologies and Development\" (UN - GAID), initiative launched by the UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nThe president of the Observatory is the architect Pierpaolo Saporito, who founded it during his presidency at the UNESCO \"International Council of Cinema and Television\" (CICT- IFCT), nominated High Level Advisor of the \"United Nations Global Alliance for ICT and Development.\"\n\nOCCAM was founded with the mission to fight poverty as effectively as possible using the new technologies and to promote sustainable development actions in the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), and works to support the UN strategies for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), former Millennium Development Goals (MDGs, 2000-2015).\n\nOCCAM's actions, besides its function of Observatory on Digital Communication with studies and research, focuses also on two other main initiatives:\n\n\nAs part of the Infopoverty program, OCCAM promoted the foundation of the Infopoverty Institute at the University of Oklahoma in 2004, to spread the Infopoverty vision in the American academic world, having as its scope to improve the living conditions of the population with ICT.\n\nInfopoverty World Conference is one of the best-known initiatives of OCCAM, founded in 2001.\n\nSince then, the conference has been held annually at the UN seat in New York. Considered as one Flagship Event, over the years it has seen more than a thousand representatives of large international organizations and institutions, avant-garde companies, universities and pioneers of the digital revolution, to find winning digital solutions for fighting poverty and sustainable development.\n\nSince its inception, the IWC has reached a high government level, thanks to the presence of high-ranking officials such as: Staffan de Mistura, General Secretary Personal Representative; Armida de Lopez Contreras, Vice President of Honduras; John Negroponte, former US Ambassador, Israel Chris, Deputy Secretary US department of Commerce (which announced in 2003 the creation of the Millennium Challenge Account by the Bush administration); Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux, President of the UNESCO General Assembly; Hisanori Isomura, president of CICT-UNESCO and ambassador of Japan in Paris; Mario Baccini, Italian foreign minister; Carlos A. Braga, director of the World Bank; Donaldo Ochoa, director of the Central American Bank for Economic Intregation; Giuseppe Gargani, president of the European Parliament's Media and Culture Committee; Adriana de Kanter, director of the US Department of Education; Guido Podestà, Vice-President of the European Parliament; Arturo Vallarino, Vice-President of the Republic of Panama; John Shirley, President of the Navajo Nation; John Gage, co-founder Sun Microsystems; Hamadoun Touré, Secretary General ITU; Shashi Tharoor, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations Communications and Public Information; Montassar Ouali, Tunisian Minister of Communication; Enrique Planas, Secretary of the Pontifical Commission for Social Communication; Sarbuland Khan, Director UN – GAID; and many others.\n\nIn 2003, the ICT Village model, a project that is still active in the Infopoverty Programme, was formalized during the first phase of the World Summit Information Society (WSIS) in Geneva.\n\nIn 2002 the Infopoverty Programme was born from the Conference to promote the validated projects and implement them concretely in the countries most in need.\n\nThe conferences over the years have been organized in partnership with the European Parliament, Office of Milan, and have received the high patronage of the President of the Republic, the patronage of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and other national and international institutions.\n\nThe annual editions of Infopoverty held at the UN seat in New York are always in videoconference with other institutional offices in the world, such as: Brussels, European Commission; Paris, Unesco; Milan, (Office of the European Parliament, the University of Milan, the Catholic University of Milan and the Polytechnic University of Milan) and numerous other locations around the globe.\n\nThe 2018 edition of the conference, the 18th, entitled \"Collective creativity and digital innovation: forging inclusive partnerships to sustain peace and development\", was held on April 13, 2018 as usual at the UN NY, room 12 and saw 49 speakers. This latest edition, like the previous ones starting in 2012, has been made accessible by the UN TV streaming site.\n\nComplete list of the 18 editions of the conference\n\n\nAs a follow-up to the Infopoverty Conferences held annually in spring at the UN seat in New York, OCCAM was invited to hold in-depth seminars at the Palais des Nations in Geneva.\n\nIn particular, in 2003 the Seminar was held during the first phase of the WSIS (World Summit on the Information Society), where the Infopoverty Programme was launched.\n\nIn 2005, in the next phase of Tunis, OCCAM organized a second Seminar during which they presented the WSIS ICT Village in Borji Ettouil as a model of large-scale application. Furthermore, a memorandum was signed with ITU (International Communication Union) and Navajo Nation for the creation of the Indigenous Portal, and managed the WSIS-TV, on ITU delegation.\n\nOther Infopoverty seminars were held later, always at the Palais des Nations in Geneva, in conjunction with the work of the UN Commission for Science and Technology or the Annual Ministerial Review, accompanied by illustrative expositions at the ECOSOC biennial Innovation Fair.\n\nThe Infopoverty programme, born at the instigation of the Infopoverty Conferences as a moment of implementation of the related resolutions, deals with the development of operational projects in favor of the most disadvantaged communities, using new technologies, from solar to web, providing internet connections and digital services, oriented towards the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).\n\nMany projects have been launched over the years, including ICT Villages to redeem poorer communities (SDG 1) from poverty, eMedMed for telemedicine (SDG 3), World Food & Health Security e-Center for agricultural development and food security, (SDG 2). The Program is updated annually at each UN Infopoverty conference and illustrated with specific exposures.\n\nThe ICT Village project stems from the need to provide technologies and services to the most disadvantaged communities to enable them to promote their own development. The replicable model of ICT Village focuses on three types of intervention: i) ensuring an education to young people aimed at enhancing local resources and creating jobs, ii) ensuring a basic level of health, iii) providing internet access to the whole community to strengthen its capacity for socio-economic development.\n\nThe ICT Village model, developed and launched by OCCAM has had a large echo, influencing deeply different levels of the society: the model has even been cited by the USSTRATCOM Global Innovation and Strategy Center in one of its document concerning the Village Infrastructure Kit-Alpha (VIKA).\n\nThe first ICT village project was carried out in 1999 in Honduras, hit by the devastating hurricane Mitch. With the support of the Ministry of Science and Technology (COHCIT) and the local University (UCyT) and the main international organizationsit was possible to implement two projects initially called Solar Village in the communities of San Ramon and San Francisco de Lempira. Thanks to the use of solar panels and the first satellite equipped for the Internet of OnSatNet, the supply of electricity was guaranteed, and a connection to 108 mb / sec, a real record for the time, able to provide more than 30,000 people the first e-learning and telemedicine services provided, allowing the population to use these new technologies advantageously and to connect to the rest of the world through e-commerce and e-government initiatives.\n\nPresented and discussed in the various IWC 2001-2003, the model is proposed to the Government of Tunisia for an experimentation in the village of Borji Ettouil at the WSIS Summit in November 2003. The success of this WSIS -ICT Village - supported by the National Solidarity Fund and visited by numerous government delegations and personalities, who appreciated the operational applications of telemedicine, e-learning and internet community access - allows validating their effectiveness and opens the doors to numerous invitations to replicate it over the years in various countries, including Peru, Ethiopia, Dominican Republic, Lesotho, Tunisia, Ghana, South Lebanon, Navajo Nation, Madagascar.\n\nIn particular, in the village of Meiss al-Jabal, in South Lebanon, born from a collaboration with Staffan de Mistura, High Representative of the UN Secretary General in the region, as a support action for the refugee communities, it was provided with two digitized classrooms, satellite connection and various specialized devices for remote consultation and assistance services, obtaining a rapid professionalization of the students, to offer them hope for the future. Unfortunately, with the war events of 2006, many villages have been destroyed, including Meiss al-Jabal. In Lebanon. Moreover, OCCAM promoted the birth of the Beirut Film Festival with the Ministry of Culture and the International Council for International Cinema and Television, and the reconstruction of the National Film Archive to make a contribution to the UN Peacekeeping action.\n\nAnother important project is the Navajo Nation Portal, announced in 2005 during the intervention at the WSIS in Tunis by John Shirley, president of the Navajo Nation co-signatory of the Memorandum of understanding with ITU and OCCAM, for the development of digitalization in indigenous populations, which sees the creation in many pueblos of access and training centers.\n\nA longlasting project is the ICT Village of Sambaina, born also thanks to the support of the then President of the Malgasy Republic S.E. Marc Ravalomanana.\n\nHere the project has been developed focusing on:\n\n• telemedicine, with the establishment of a new digitalized health unit, especially on maternal care, achieving a reduction in pre-postpartum and early childhood mortality,\n\n• e-learning, with classes equipped with computers and other digital devices and courses.\n\n• center for internet access for the population of the district.\n\nAll the vast territory, after a first satellite coverage provided by Eutelsat / Skylogic, was connected in broadband using the state frequencies, so that hospitals, schools, municipalities, operated without charges, stating the principle, then decided in UNGAID, that public services must be able to take advantage of public broadband networks.\n\nSambaina soon arouses international attention, including the visit of Jeffrey Sachs, director of the UN Millenium Project and Special Advisor of the Secretary General Kofi Annan, who proclaimed him in 2006 the first and only one of its kind, Millennium Village towards which both UNDP and the Millennium Challenge Corporation USA will launch support programs.\n\nIn support of Sambaina and the other ICT Village, OCCAM launched the Ville Village Project in 2005 to encourage direct collaboration between communities in developing countries and cities in advanced countries, which have greatly encouraged the integration in the perspective of mutual cultural and social enrichment and in order to optimize the resources put in place by both local authorities and NGOs in development cooperation projects.\n\nThe first Ville-Village realization was ratified with the agreement signed by the Ambassador of Madagascar in Itala, SE Jean Pierre Razafi, on December 4, 2008, and the mayor of Lodi Lorenzo Guerini, Within this initiative the city of Lodi has been selected to better employ the excellences of its territory, such as the Padano Technology Park, the Hospital (already active in the telemedicine sector) and the NGOs operating in its territory. Innovative digital development service centers have also been created, focusing on e-phytopathology, and e-veterinary.\n\nThe ICT Village of Mahobong, in Lesotho, experimented in 2007 the Digital Services Global Platform, both in the field of Food Security with applications of e-phytopathology and parasitology and of telemedicine, through a new ultrasound device, which allow remote ultrasounds suitable for prevent pre- and post-natal mortality and assist emergency interventions. The project realized by OCCAM in collaboration with the Department of Protection of Agrifood and Urban Systems and Biodiversity Valorization of the University of Milan and with the International Telemedicine Institute (IITM), supported by the Municipality of Milan, has allowed to export knowledge in the field of cultivation and protection of plants and food and limit production losses caused to production, giving considerable development to the communities involved.\n\neMedMed is the project born in the context of the Union for the Mediterranean; it aims to promote a more widespread and efficient diffusion of the health service in Tunisia, Morocco, Libya and Egypt, through telemedicine. It is the result of the experimentation of over 15 years of applications in the various ICT Village in the field of maternal care, emergencies, cardiology, and traumatology.\n\nIt has been selected among the most relevant projects for the development of the Mediterranean by the French Senate. On the 20th June 2014, it was presented during the Conference \"Au-delà des frontières: les partenariats euro-méditerranéens par ceux qui les font\"\n\nThe project was validated at the UN in 2015 at the XV Infopoverty World Conference, where it was illustrated for OCCAM by the scientific director, Luigi De Vecchis, in collaboration with the Dedalus Group, by Giorgio Moretti, for the software clinical health.\n\nThe goal is to improve health conditions in the Southern Mediterranean countries through the participation of a network of clinical centers and European experts connected with local structures through a specific platform with ICT Solutions and innovative scientific m-devices. The system integrates the resources of hospitals and service centers in the area and the data collected in the field (diagnostic imaging, medical records, patient records, consultations, training etc.) through the network, optimizing, which would also allow in our country, the 'home care of the patient, reducing costs and optimizing the use of resources. Focal moment for the operational definition of the project was the XXI Euromediterranean Conference, held in Catania on 26–27 February 2016, in which the E-MedMed Memorandum of Understanding was signed in the presence of representatives of the Italian Government, OCCAM and the Municipality of Catania to create the \"Hub Center of Catania for Health Security, Migrant Emergency and Solidarity Development in the Mediterranean Basin\".\n\nThe project had the chance to collaborate with the IRCCS Bonino health facilities Pulejo of Messina and Provincial Health Authority of Catania, while numerous actors have participated in the development of the Hub: IItm (International Institute of TeleMedicine), Nile Badrawi Foundation for Education and Development in Egypt, Tripoli National Diabetes Hospital and the National Center for Disease Control in Libya, Moroccan Society for TeleMedicine and e-Health in Morocco, Association for Promoting Pulmonology and Allergology in Tunisia. in order to strengthen their capacity to use existing resources - often completely neglected - and start them towards a path of self-sustainable development that respects the environment and human rights.\n\nThe Centre was created for MilanEXPO 2015 and launched at the International Conference \"Beyond EXPO: The New Digital Services for Food Security\" held at the Palazzo Lombardia in Milan in October 2015. The Center was adopted on 17 November 2016 at the COP22 - UN summit on climate change in Marrakech, as a tool able to provide rapid and low-cost solutions to rural communities, thanks to digital services provided by prestigious centers of excellence and networking of connected service providers thanks to the Infopoverty platform, able to share expertise with remote users, transfer data and support and connect local institutions with the main facilities for assistance. The center is also distinguished by the use of sustainable and modular technologies, which rely on clean energy like the ones obtained from photovoltaics.\n\nThe Center, validated at the XVIII Infopoverty World Conference on the 13th of April 2018, can provide phytopathology, parasitology, remote diagnosis and analysis, soil and food evaluation, crop monitoring and soil protection. and analysis of water potability; telemedicine services such as radiology, ultrasound, extended to basic veterinary and cold chain testing services along the food supply chain. Moreover, the hub will form, thanks to new ICT technologies, new generation of experts and technicians, through a network of service providers such as AISSA (Italian Association of Agricultural Scientific Societies), the University of Milan, the University of Milan. of Sassari, the Padano Technology Park, Smithers Foundation and other associated international centers of excellence.\n\nThe Center's structure is configured as a telecommunication hub with its own platform capable of providing and receiving, through broadband connectivity, remote data which, analysed by the Center, sends ad hoc solutions to the Service Users regarding the various problems submitted, in strict coordination with local government policies, according to precise protocols. The economic sustainability of the Center will be guaranteed by the benefits produced in the field, enhanced in blockchain mode, in order to guarantee maximum transparency and sharing of results.\n\nSimultaneously with the various conferences and seminars, OCCAM has set up exhibitions illustrating its activities and the results achieved. In particular, there are the exhibitions in the Bramante Cloisters of the Catholic University of Milan 2001, at the Polytechnic of Milan, at the Palais des Nations in Genevra for the WSIS 2003 and the Ecosoc Innovation Fair 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013 in the central pavilion of the 2005 WSIS in Tunis and also at the Glass Palace in New York. A large Infopoverty Exhibition, entitled \"New technologies for development\" was held in 2007 at the Milan Fair on the occasion of the BUILD UP event with the virtual reconstruction of an ICT Village, where were presented the most interesting innovations in the ICT4D field at the service of sustainable development, by all the partners of the Program: UNESCO, ESA, European Parliament, International Federation of the Red Cross, City of Milan, Casa della Carità, Polytechnic of Milan, Bicocca University, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, University of Oklahoma, Eutelsat, Pathologists, and delegation of the Dominican Republic and of Peru, over the border; S. Donato Hospital. A fixed Space TV station guaranteed the constant transmission of all the daily meetings.\n\nOCCAM co-produced in 2010 for the UN pavilion at EXPO in Shanghai the film \"The Earth, Our Home\" directed by Pierpaolo Saporito and Vittorio Giacci, which illustrates the effects of human action on climate change. The film was screened at UNESCO in 2012. Many numerous well-known names and Oscar awards collaborated in the making of the film including Ennio Morricone composer of the musical themes of the first and last chapter, F. Murray Abraham who participated as narrator, Luis Bacalov, Michel Nyman, Arvo Part, Philip Glass, Ayub Ogada, Nello Salza, Andrea Bocelli.\n\nThe Observatory is organized into 5 segments:\n\n\nCommunication and secretariat. OCCAM makes use of qualified high-level advisors, grouped in specific task forces, with a promotion and development committee.\n\nThe observatory has two representations at the UN, one in New York and one in Geneva and an international head of Institutional Relations.\n\nSince its foundation, the Observatory has had a close relationship with UNESCO, which originated it in 1996 as a special project associated with the Mediterranean Program, a network of agencies and institutions aimed at supporting the Barcelona Agreement of 1995 on free trade Euro-Mediterranean.\n\nIn this context, OCCAM assisted the organization of the \"1st Euro-Mediterranean Conference on Cinema\", under the patronage of the President of the Italian Republic, held in Venice in September 1995, with the UNESCO Conseil International du Cinema et de la Television, and the European Parliament, Rome office.\n\nThese annual conferences form a forum where the various protagonists of the Region work on the role that cinema and new media can play in the process of integration of the Mediterranean, identifying and promoting concrete initiatives to support the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue; in twenty years, the Euro-Mediterranean Conferences on Cinema have seen among its participants representatives of governments, international organizations, public and private institutions, experts in the new media and men and women of culture; this initiative has promoted and supported important initiatives in the Mediterranean, such as: the Euromed Audiovisuel program for cinema support policy; the Copeam for public televisions; the Film Festivals of Tirana, Ohrid, Zagreb, Beirut, Gaza, Kouribka, Kalamata, Menorca; the rencontres cinèma of Hammammet; the relaunch of the Antalya Festival in Turkey, the first Euro-Asian festival.\n\nIn 2016 the XXI Conference was held on February 26 and 27 in Catania with the theme of the Mediterranean in the Digital Era and focused on \"Health Security, Migrant Emergency and Solidarity Development in the Mediterranean Basin\", with important contributions from the Mayor of Catania Enzo Bianco, the ministerial undersecretaries Giuseppe Castiglione, Domenico Manzione, Vito De Filippo and Benedetto Della Vedova, senior representatives of the coastal countries, partners of the eMedMed project, and the President of OCCAM and Infopoverty Pierpaolo Saporito, who underlined how the conference goes beyond cinema and television to widen the field of digital communication, and can be integrated as a regional contribution to the worldwide mission of Infopoverty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1555010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1555010", "title": "Official bilingualism in Canada", "text": "Official bilingualism in Canada\n\nThe official languages of Canada are English and French, which \"have equality of status and equal rights and privileges as to their use in all institutions of the Parliament and Government of Canada,\" according to Canada's constitution. Official bilingualism is the term used in Canada to collectively describe the policies, constitutional provisions, and laws that ensure legal equality of English and French in the Parliament and courts of Canada, protect the linguistic rights of English and French-speaking minorities in different provinces, and ensure a level of government services in both languages across Canada.\n\nIn addition to the symbolic designation of English and French as official languages, official bilingualism is generally understood to include any law or other measure that:\n\nAt the provincial level, New Brunswick officially recognizes the equal status of French and English. While French has equal legal status in Manitoba restored due to a court ruling that struck down seventy-year-old English-only laws in 1985, in practice, French language services are only provided in some regions of the province. Quebec has declared itself officially unilingual (French only). Alberta and Saskatchewan are also considered unilingual (English only). In practice, all provinces, including Quebec, offer some services in both English and French and some publicly funded education in both official languages up to the high school level (English language postsecondary education institutions are also present in Quebec, as are French language postsecondary institutions in other provinces, in particular in Manitoba, Ontario and New Brunswick). English and French are official languages in all three territories. In addition, Inuktitut is also an official language in Nunavut, and nine aboriginal languages have official status in the Northwest Territories.\n\nLinguistic diversity existed in northern North America long before the arrival of the French and the English. Due to the widespread trade that occurred between many linguistic communities, indigenous linguistic knowledge across northern North America appears to have consisted of bilingualism in the mother language and a pidgin as a standard. The known Pidgins included:\n\n\nFrench has been a language of government in the part of Canada that is today Quebec, with limited interruptions, since the arrival of the first French settlers in Canada in 1604 (Acadians) and in 1608 in Quebec, and has been entrenched in the Constitution of Canada since 1867. English has been a language of government in each of the provinces since their inception as British colonies.\n\nInstitutional bilingualism in various forms therefore predates the Canadian Confederation in 1867. However, for many years English occupied a \"de facto\" privileged position, and French was not fully equal. The two languages have gradually achieved a greater level of equality in most of the provinces, and full equality at the federal level. In the 1970s French in Quebec became the province's official language.\n\nVilma Sindona Eichholz wrote in a book published in 1982:\n\n‘The first Europeans after the Vikings came not as settlers but to exploit the country by trade with the Indians. They were both English and French speaking and had wars among themselves to gain access to this trade. The actual settling of the land took place much later. The French were the first settlers in 1617, but as early as 1660 a German was mentioned as a settler in the records of Quebec. The first English settlers came only a hundred years later, and here we discover a great paradox: These first ten ships full of ‘English’ settlers were exclusively German. In 1745 they founded Waldoburg and 8 years later Lunenburg in the province we now know as Nova Scotia. These protestant Germans were actually recruited in Germany by the British Government to offset the existing French Catholics. Later the governor of Nova Scotia who had already settled in Pennsylvania to move to “Nova Scotia, which will be materially strengthened by the acquisition of these frugal, laborious, and industrious people who will not only improve and enrich their property, but if need be, pertinaciously defend it.” It may surprise us that these first German settlers are “virtually the first English-speaking Canadians” (A.R. Lower). They were English not because of their origin, but because they learned English fast, anglicized their names, and wrote themselves as ‘English’ into the records.\n\n‘It is important to pause here and to investigate why people from a highly civilized country wanted to forget their own language and culture and adopted a false ancestry. It is particularly important, because they were the first but not the last to behave like this. Their reasons for doing so may give us a clue as to why all Caucasian ethnic groups, except the English, behaved likewise including even members from the geographically well-protected French group […].\n\n‘The reason for this strange behaviour is to be found in the ‘almost militant pride’ of the English in their origin. The lost wars against the Americans, who seceded from the English crown, had seriously hurt their pride. Compensating for this, they wanted to create a precise replica of their beloved England in Canada. They displayed an “ultra-British attitude which was heavy with emotion and excluded rational discussion.” They tried to be English to the core in political and social institutions and in their whole life-style. It is here that we find the seeds for the difficulties we face today. This attitude allowed a snobbism to develop, so much resented openly by French-Canadians today and felt by all the other groups too, even if they do not yet feel secure enough to voice their objection. Certain English families demanded special “public favours, power, and office as their birthright.” The desire to have the same privileges for a good start caused the Germans to choose to give up their identity rather than be second class citizens. Today many may say that this was a smart move, especially in light of the fate of another group of German settlers who came later to Ontario.\n\n‘The 64 German families to whom Toronto owes its existence had not made an attempt to anglicize and did not fare as well as their earlier compatriots in Nova Scotia. The Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Canada, John Graves Simcoe, found the strategic spot where Canada’s most populous city, Toronto, now stands. Actually this place existed only on paper until 1794 when 180 Germans, under the leadership of the first architect of Upper Canada, Albrecht Ulrich Moll, came, cleared Yonge Street and built the first houses. They accomplished this completely on their own. In return, each family was promised to receive 1000 acres one year later, but the government broke its word to the “suspicious aliens” who “could neither be trusted nor legally hold land before seven years’ residence here as subjects of the Crown. In desperation Moll travelled to the king of England to save his people, who had used up all their reserves during that one year of hard pioneer work. Though the king acknowledged that the settlers had kept their side of the contract and were therefore entitled to the 64 000 acres guaranteed to them, he made it dependent of the approval of the government of Upper Canada, which did not honour the agreement. A disastrous time of famine and death followed for the betrayed group of pioneers.\n\n‘The Germans participated not only in the earlier stages of settlement but came in great numbers to Canada. [...] They also fought in the French and English armies, even in leading positions. For example, in 1755, a Baron von Dieskau from Saxony was appointed Supreme commander of the French troops in North America and General von Riedesel was commander of the German troops fighting under British colours. His wife introduced the first illuminated Christmas tree in Canada in 1781. Of special interest is the Proclamation of Lord Dorchester from July 24, 1788. It created four new districts which had German names and were to become the provinces of Upper Canada, namely Luneburg, Mecklenburg, Nassau and Hesse.\n\n‘The right to have German schools was also granted to the Mennonites who came shortly after Mooll’s unlucky settlers. Many of these reliable industrious farmers left Canada when, after the First World War, this right was rescinded. Learning these facts, one gets the impression that the existence of early German settlers as well as their contributions and loyalty to Canada have been either misrepresented or silenced.’\n\nFrom 1876 to 1996, the Government of Canada operated the Canadian Indian residential school system which the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada described as cultural genocide. This system, combined with education, immigration, and other policies promoting English and French, contributed greatly to the promotion of English and French across Canada.\n\nVilma Sindona Eichholz wrote:\n\n‘John Alexander Macdonald, the first Prime Minister of Canada, is credited with creating a nation through the construction of this band of steel [the transcontinental railroad] linking the Atlantic with the Pacific Ocean. But in order to transform this dream into reality not only political battles had to be won. Thousands of tough labourers had to be found willing to do the actual work which, particularly in the granite canyons of the Western mountains, was not just hard but outright dangerous. Not many Canadians were willing to work for $1.50 a day, considered low even in those days. It soon became apparent that only by the hiring of 6000 collies from China could the railroad be built. They were even willing to work for $1.00 a day and had to give a percentage from that to the company that brought them over. And they worked well. A white foreman was amazed at their endurance and willingness: “I moved 2000 Chinese with all their belongings on their backs 25 miles and they were working normally the next day. With white workers this would have taken me a week.” Instead of either lowering their own expectations or just accepting the fact that foreigners were willing to work for less and get the railroad built, Canadians changed the virtues of these industrious foreigners into a crime. Anti-Chinese feelings ran high, even in areas where the Chinese were unknown such as Winnipeg, whose ‘Times’ wrote about the ‘immoral children of China’ who had ‘no sense whatever of any principle of morality’ and even dared to add: “it is an established fact that dealings with the Chinese are attended with evil results.” But according to their white foreman, not a single incident of dishonesty was known during all the years the Chinese worked on the railroad.\n\n‘It had been the intention of these coolies to go back to their homeland after having earned a few hundred dollars in Canada. But for very few indeed this dream came true. Many had died either in accidents on the job or from scurvy because of bad food. [...] No records were kept about Chinese deaths and let alone any inquiries held. Only a few survivors could save enough to pay their trip back. Most Chinese eventually died separated from their loved ones, rejected by the hostile land they served so well. But some did manage to get their wives over here. They settled mostly in British Columbia.’\n\nEnglish and French have had limited constitutional protection since 1867. Section 133 of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\" guarantees that both languages may be used in the Parliament of Canada, in its journals and records, and in court proceedings in any court established by the Parliament of Canada. The section also mandates that all Acts of the Parliament of Canada be printed and published in both languages. Guarantees for the equal status of the two official languages are provided in sections 16–23 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\", which became law in 1982. Sections 16–19 guarantee the equal status of both languages in Parliament, in all federal government institutions, and in federal courts. These sections also mandate that all statutes, records and journals of Parliament be published in both languages, with the English and French versions both holding equal status before the courts. Section 20 guarantees the right of the Canadian public to communicate in English and French with any central government office or with regional offices where there is \"a significant demand for communication with and services from that office\". Significant demand is not defined in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. One of the purposes of the \"Official Languages Act\" of 1988 was to remedy this omission.\n\nThe \"Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" includes similar constitutional obligations making New Brunswick the only officially bilingual province in Canada.\n\nSection 21 ensured that the new Charter of Rights and Freedoms would be read as supplementing, rather than replacing any rights of the English and French languages, which had been constitutionalized prior to 1982. Section 22 ensured that the new Charter of Rights and Freedoms would not be interpreted by the courts as placing any new restrictions on non-official languages.\n\nSection 23 provides a limited right to receive publicly funded primary and secondary-schooling in the two official languages when they are \"in a minority situation\"—in other words, to English-language schooling in Quebec, and to French-language schooling in the rest of the country.\n\nThe right applies asymmetrically because section 59 of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\", provides that not all of the language rights listed in section 23 will apply in Quebec. Specifically:\nNone of these education language rights precludes parents from placing their children in a private school (which they pay for) in the language of their choice; it applies only to subsidized public education.\n\nOne practical consequence of this asymmetry is that all migrants who arrive in Quebec from foreign countries only have access to French-language public schools for their children. This includes immigrants whose mother tongue is English and immigrants who received their schooling in English. On the other hand, Section 23 provides a nearly universal right to English-language schooling for the children of Canadian-born anglophones living in Quebec.\n\nSection 23 also provides, subject only to the \"where numbers warrant\" restriction, a right to French-language schooling for the children of all francophones living outside Quebec, including immigrants from French-speaking countries who settle outside Quebec, and who are Canadian citizens.\n\nHowever, admission to French-language schools outside Quebec remains restricted in some ways it is not in Quebec. In particular, rights holder parents who choose to enrol their child in English school may thereby deprive that child's descendants of the right to attend French school. In Quebec, under article 76.1 of the \"Charter of the French Language\", rights holders do not deprive their descendants of the right to an English-language education by choosing to enroll their children in French school. (This applies if certain administrative steps are taken at each generation. Otherwise, the right may still be transmitted to grandchildren under article 76.)\n\nAnother element of asymmetry between Quebec and most anglophone provinces is that while Quebec provides public English-language primary and secondary education throughout the province, most other provinces provide French-language education only \"where numbers warrant\".\n\nThere are some further restrictions on minority-language education rights:\n\nThe phrase, \"where numbers ... warrant\" is not defined in Section 23. Education is under provincial jurisdiction, which means that it has not been possible for Parliament to enact a single nationwide definition of the term, as the 1988 \"Official Languages Act\" did for the constitutional obligation to provide federal services where “there is a sufficient demand.” As a result, disputes over the extent of the right to a publicly funded minority-language education have been the source of much litigation.\n\nThe defining case was \"Mahe v. Alberta\" (1990), in which the Supreme Court of Canada declared that section 23 guaranteed a \"sliding scale\". In certain circumstances, the children whose parents could exercise the right might be so few that literally no minority language education may be provided by the government. With a greater number of children, some schools might be required to provide classrooms in which the children could receive minority language education. An even greater number would require the construction of new schools dedicated solely to minority language education. More recent cases, which have significantly extended these rights, include \"Arsenault-Cameron v. Prince Edward Island\" (2000) and \"Doucet-Boudreau v. Nova Scotia (Minister of Education)\" (2003).\n\nMany of the documents in Canada's Constitution do not have an official French-language version; for legal purposes only the English-language version is official and any French translations are unofficial. In particular, the \"Constitution Act, 1867\" (which created Canada as a legal entity and still contains the most important provisions of governmental powers) has no official French-language version, because it was enacted by the United Kingdom Parliament, which functions in the English language exclusively. Similarly, all other parts of the Constitution that were enacted by the United Kingdom (with the important exception of the \"Canada Act 1982\") have no official French-language version.\n\nSections 55–57 of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\" set out a framework for changing this situation. Section 55 calls for French versions of all parts of the Constitution that exist only in English to be prepared as quickly as possible. Section 56 provided that, following adoption of the French versions, both the English-language and French-language versions would be equally authoritative. To avoid the situation where an inaccurately translated French version would have a weight equal to the English original, Section 55 requires that the French-language versions be approved using the same process under which actual constitutional amendments are adopted.\n\nPursuant to section 55, a French Constitutional Drafting Committee produced French-language versions of all the British North America Acts in the decade following 1982. However, these versions were never ratified under the Constitution’s amendment procedure, and therefore have never been officially adopted.\n\nSection 57 states that the “English and French versions of this Act [ie. the \"Constitution Act, 1982\"] are equally authoritative.” The purpose of this provision is to clear up any ambiguity that might have existed about the equal status of the two versions as a result of the novel way in which this part of Canada's supreme law came into force. Had the \"Constitution Act, 1982\" been enacted as most preceding amendments to Canada's constitution had been, as a statute of the British parliament, it would, like any other British statute, have been an English-only document. Instead, the British parliament enacted a very concise law, (the \"Canada Act 1982\"), written in English only. The operative clauses of the \"Canada Act, 1982\" simply state that an appendix to the Act (the appendix is formally referred to as a \"schedule\") is to be integrated into the Canadian constitution. The schedule contains the complete text of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\", in both English and French.\n\nCanada adopted its first \"Official Languages Act\" in 1969, in response to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism. The current \"Official Languages Act\" was adopted in 1988 to improve the 1969 law's efforts to address two basic policy objectives: (1) to specify the powers, duties and functions of federal institutions relevant to official languages; (2) to support the development of linguistic minority communities. As well, following the adoption in 1982 of the \"Charter of Rights\", it was necessary to create a legislative framework within which the Government of Canada could respect its new constitutional obligations regarding the official languages.\n\nIn addition to formalizing Charter provisions in Parts I through IV, the Act adopts several specific measures to achieve these objectives. For example, Part V specifies that the work environment in federal institutions in the National Capital Region and other prescribed bilingual regions be conducive to accommodating the use of French and English at work. Part VI mandates that English-speaking Canadians and French-speaking Canadians not be discriminated against based on ethnic origin or first language learned when it comes to employment opportunities and advancement.\n\nFinally, the Act establishes a Commissioner of Official Languages and specifies their duties to hear and investigate complaints, make recommendations to Parliament, and delegate authority in matters pertaining to official languages in Canada. Canada's current Commissioner of Official Languages is Raymond Théberge.\n\nSection 32 of the \"Official Languages Act\" authorizes the Governor in Council (i.e., the federal cabinet) to issue regulations that define the geographic regions where the federal government offers services in the relevant minority language (English in Quebec and French elsewhere).\n\nThis provides a legal definition for the otherwise vague requirement that services be provided in the minority official languages wherever there is \"significant demand.\" The definition used in the regulations is complex, but basically an area of the country is served in both languages if at least 5,000 persons in that area, or 5% of the local population (whichever is smaller), belongs to that province's English or French linguistic minority population.\n\nRegulations were first promulgated in 1991.\n\nBook I Chapter 1.C of the report of the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism, published on 8 October 1967, acknowledges the international influence on Canadian language policy:\n\nThe issue of proportional hiring and promotion of speakers of both official languages has been an issue in Canadian politics since before Confederation. Members of each linguistic group have complained of injustice when their group have been represented, in public service hiring and promotion, in numbers less than would be justified by their proportion of the national population. For the greater part of Canada’s history, French-speakers were underrepresented, and English-speakers were overrepresented in the ranks of the public service, and the disproportion became more pronounced in the more senior ranks of public servants. However, this trend has reversed itself in recent decades.\n\nThe first high-profile complaint of preferential hiring took place in 1834. One of the Ninety-Two Resolutions of the Lower Canadian House of Assembly drew attention to the fact that French Canadians, who at the time were 88% of the colony's population, held only 30% of the posts in the 157-member colonial civil service. Moreover, the resolution stated, French Canadians were, \"for the most part, appointed to the inferior and less lucrative offices, and most frequently only obtaining even them, by becoming the dependent of those [British immigrants] who hold the higher and the more lucrative offices...\"\n\nWith the advent of responsible government in the 1840s, the power to make civil service appointments was transferred to elected politicians, who had a strong incentive to ensure that French Canadian voters did not feel that they were being frozen out of hiring and promotions. Although no formal reform of the hiring and promotion process was ever undertaken, the patronage-driven hiring process seems to have produced a more equitable representation of the two language groups. In the period between 1867 and the turn of the Twentieth Century, French-Canadians made up about one-third of the Canadian population, and seem also to have represented about one-third of civil service appointments at junior levels, although they had only about half that much representation at the most senior level.\n\nCanada's thirteen provinces and territories have adopted widely diverging policies with regard to minority-language services for their respective linguistic minorities. Given the wide range of services, such as policing, health care and education, that fall under provincial jurisdiction, these divergences have considerable importance.\n\nOf Canada's ten provinces, only one (New Brunswick) has voluntarily chosen to become officially bilingual. New Brunswick's bilingual status is constitutionally entrenched under the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\". Sections 16–20 of the \"Charter\" include parallel sections guaranteeing the same rights at the federal level and at the provincial level (New Brunswick only).\n\nManitoba is the only province that was officially bilingual at the time of its establishment.\nFollowing the Red River Rebellion led by the Francophone Métis Louis Riel, the Manitoba Act was passed, creating the province and mandating the equal status of English and French in all legislative bodies, legislative records, laws and court proceedings. At this time, Manitoba had a majority Francophone population, but within 20 years mass immigration from Ontario and non-Francophone countries had reduced the Francophone proportion of the population to less than 10%. In 1890, the provincial government of Thomas Greenway stripped funding from the French school system and revoked the equal status of French, a controversial move that caused tension between French and English speakers throughout Canada.\n\nDespite the protests of Franco-Manitobans that the Manitoba Act had been violated, Manitoba remained monolingual in practice until the early 1980s, when legal challenges created a crisis that threatened to invalidate almost all laws passed in Manitoba since 1890, on the grounds that these statutes were not published in French as required by the Manitoba Act. The provincial government under Howard Pawley tried and failed to address the crisis, with the opposition refusing to attend legislative sessions. In 1985 the Supreme Court ruled that the Manitoba Act had been violated and that all provincial legislation must be published in both French and English, restoring the legal equality of the languages that had existed when the province was created. While this restoration of legal equality faced overwhelming public opposition at the time, polls taken in 2003 showed a majority of Manitobans supported provincial bilingualism.\n\nDue to Manitoba's unique history, it has a complex bilingual profile combining that of a province with a \"small official-language minority and one with constitutional protection of said minority\". Currently, the \"French Language Services Policy\" guarantees access to provincial government services in French, though in practice French language services are available only in some areas. Public primary and secondary education is provided in both French and English, and parents are free to choose instruction in either language. \nPost-secondary Francophone education is provided by the Université de Saint-Boniface,\nthe oldest university in Western Canada.\n\nFrench has been the only official language in Quebec since 1974, when the Liberal government of Robert Bourassa enacted \"The Official Language Act\" (better-known as \"Bill 22\"). However, the province's language law does provide for limited services in English. As well, the province is obliged, under Section 133 of the Constitution Act, 1867, to allow the provincial legislature to operate in both French and English, and to allow all Quebec courts to operate in both languages. Section 23 of the Charter applies to Quebec, but to a more limited degree than in other provinces. Quebec is required to provide an education in English to all children whose Canadian citizen parents were educated in English in Canada, while all other provinces are required to provide an education in French to the children of Canadian citizen parents who either received their education in French in Canada or whose native tongue is French.\n\nIn 1977, the Parti Québécois government of René Lévesque introduced the \"Charter of the French Language\" (better known as \"Bill 101\") to promote and preserve the French language in the province, indirectly disputing the federal bilingualism policy. Initially, Bill 101 banned the use of all languages but French on most commercial signs in the province (except for companies with four employees or fewer), but those limitations were later loosened by allowing other languages on signs, as long as the French version is predominant. Bill 101 also requires that children of most immigrants residing in Quebec attend French-language public schools; the children of Canadian citizens who have received their education in Canada in English may attend English-language public schools, which are operated by English-language school boards throughout the province. The controversy over this part of Quebec's language legislation has lessened in recent years as these laws became more entrenched and the public use of French increased.\n\nQuebec's language laws have been the subject of a number of legal rulings. In 1988, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in the case of Ford v. Quebec (A.G.) that the commercial sign law provisions of Bill 101, which banned the use of the English language on outdoor signs, were unconstitutional. In 1989, the Quebec National Assembly invoked the \"Notwithstanding Clause\" of the Charter of Rights to set aside enforcement of the court ruling for five years. A UN appeal of the 'McIntyre Case' resulted in a condemnation of Quebec's sign law — regardless of the legality of the notwithstanding clause under Canadian law. In response, in 1993 Quebec enacted amendments to the sign law, availing itself of the suggestions proposed in the losing 1988 Supreme Court ruling by allowing other languages on commercial signs, subject to French being \"markedly predominant\" .\n\nOn March 31, 2005, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled unanimously that the interpretation made by the provincial administration of the \"major part\" criterion in Quebec's \"language of instruction\" provisions violated the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. This criterion allows students who have completed the \"major part\" of their primary education in English in Canada to continue their studies in English in Quebec. The Court did not strike down the law but, as it had done in its 1988 ruling on sign laws, presented the province with a set of criteria for interpreting the law in conformity with the \"Charter of Rights\", broadening the interpretation of the phrase \"major part\".\n\nFrench and English are official languages in Canada's three federal territories: Yukon, Nunavut, and the Northwest Territories. Nunavut and the Northwest Territories also accord official language status to several indigenous languages. Inuktitut and Inuinnaqtun are official languages in Nunavut because of the territory's Inuit population. The Northwest Territories accords official status to nine aboriginal languages (Chipewyan, Cree, Gwich’in, Inuinnaqtun, Inuktitut, Inuvialuktun, North Slavey, South Slavey and Tłįchǫ/Dogrib). NWT residents have the right to use any of the territory's eleven official languages in a territorial court and in debates and proceedings of the legislature. However, laws are legally binding only in their French and English versions, and the government publishes laws and other documents in the territory's other official languages only when asked by the legislature. Furthermore, access to services in any language is limited to institutions and circumstances where there is significant demand for that language or where it is reasonable to expect it given the nature of the services requested. In practice, this means that only English language services are universally available, and there is no guarantee that any particular government service will use other languages except the courts. Following a 2006 territorial supreme court ruling, \"Fédération Franco-Ténoise v. Canada (Attorney General)\", universal French-language services are also mandatory.\n\nAlthough no Canadian province has officially adopted English as its sole official language, English is the de facto language of government services and internal government operations in Canada's seven remaining provinces. Service levels in French vary greatly from one province to another (and sometimes within different parts of the same province).\n\nFor example, under the terms of Ontario's 1986 \"French Language Services Act\", Francophones in 25 designated areas across the province—but not in other parts of the province—are guaranteed access to provincial government services in French. Similarly, since 2005, the City of Ottawa has been officially required under Ontario law, to set a municipal policy on English and French.\n\nIn Alberta, the \"Alberta School Act\" protects the right of French-speaking people to receive school instruction in the French language in the province.\n\nThere is considerable variation across Canada concerning the right to use English and French in legislatures and courts (federal, provincial and territorial). Rights under federal law are consistent throughout Canada, but different provinces and territories have different approaches to language rights. Three provinces (Manitoba, New Brunswick and Quebec) have constitutional guarantees for bilingualism and language rights. Three other provinces (Alberta, Ontario and Saskatchewan) have statutory provisions relating to bilingualism in the legal system, as do each of the three territories (Northwest Territories, Nunavut and Yukon). Four provinces (British Columbia, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island) are unilingual English.\n\nLanguage rights in the legal system are summarized in the following table:\n\nOfficial bilingualism should not be confused with personal bilingualism, which is the capacity of a person to speak two languages. This distinction was articulated in the 1967 report of the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism, which stated:\n\nAt least 35% of Canadians speak more than one language. Moreover, fewer than 2% of Canadians cannot speak at least one of the two official languages. However, of these multilingual Canadians, somewhat less than one fifth of the population (5,448,850 persons, or 17.4% of the Canadian population) are able to maintain a conversation in both of the official languages according to a self-assessment. However, in Canada the terms \"bilingual\" and \"unilingual\" are normally used to refer to bilingualism in English and French. In this sense, nearly 83% of Canadians are \"unilingual\".\n\nKnowledge of the two official languages is largely determined by geography. Nearly 95% of Quebecers can speak French, but only 40.6% speak English. In the rest of the country, 97.6% of the population is capable of speaking English, but only 7.5% can speak French. Personal bilingualism is most concentrated in southern Quebec and a swath of territory sometimes referred to as the \"bilingual belt\", which stretches east from Quebec through northern and eastern New Brunswick and west through Ottawa and that part of Ontario lying to the east of Ottawa, as well as north-eastern Ontario. There is also a large French-speaking population in Manitoba. In all, 55% of bilingual Canadians are Quebecers, and a high percentage of the bilingual population in the rest of Canada resides in Ontario and New Brunswick. Statistics Canada collects much of its language data from self-assessments.\n\nCanada’s thirteen provincial and territorial education systems place a high priority on boosting the number of bilingual high school graduates. For example, in 2008 New Brunswick's provincial government reconfirmed its goal of boosting the percentage of bilingualism among graduates from its current rate of 34% to 70% rate by 2012. In 2003, the federal government announced a ten-year plan of subsidies to provincial education ministries with the goal of boosting bilingualism among all Canadian graduates from its then-current level of 24% to 50% by 2013.\n\nThree methods of providing French second-language education (known as \"FSL\") exist side-by-side in each of the provinces (including Quebec, where extensive French-language education opportunities are available for the province’s large population of non-Francophone children):\n\nNon-Francophone students learn French by taking courses on the French language as part of an education that is otherwise conducted in English. In Quebec and New Brunswick, French classes begin in Grade 1. In the other provinces, French classes typically start in Grade 4 or 5. Students normally receive about 600 hours of French-language classes by the time of graduation. The goal of “Core French” programs is not to produce fully bilingual graduates, but rather \"to provide students with the ability to communicate adequately in the second language, and to provide students with linguistic tools to continue their second-language studies by building on a solid communicative base\". There are no mandatory core French class in British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan, and second-language courses are mandatory only in BC.\n\nOne result of this is that comprehension levels are often lower than parents would prefer. A scholar who interviewed a former New Brunswick premier, as well as the province's deputy ministers of education and health and the chairman of its Board of Management and Official Languages Branch reports: \"[A]ll expressed reservations about the effectiveness of the Core program in promoting individual bilingualism and believed the program must be improved if anglophone students are to obtain a level of proficiency in the French language.\"\n\nNon-Francophone students with no previous French-language training learn French by being taught all subjects in the French language, rather than by taking courses on the French language as part of an education otherwise conducted in English. In \"early immersion\", students are placed in French-language classes starting in kindergarten or Grade 1.\n\nIn \"late immersion\", children are placed in French-language classes in a later grade. Currently, 7% of eligible students outside of Quebec are enrolled in French immersion programs.\n\nSome schools in Ontario offer a third method of FSL education: the Extended French program. Students enter into this program as early as Grade 4—the starting grade is set by each region's school board—and may continue the program through to graduation. The program can also be entered when beginning secondary school; however, as there is a prerequisite number of previous instruction hours, usually only students previously enrolled in the Extended French or French Immersion programs can enter. In this program, at least 25% of all instruction must be in French. From Grades 4 through 8, this means that at least one course per year other than \"French as a Second Language\" must be taught solely in French. From Grades 9 through 12, along with taking the Extended French language course every year, students must complete their mandatory Grade 9 Geography and Grade 10 Canadian History credits in French. Students who complete these required courses and take one extra credit taught in French receive a certificate upon graduation in addition to their diploma.\n\nIntensive French is a method of FSL education that originated in Newfoundland. \nIn 2004, Intensive French began in some schools in British Columbia. Intensive French is a choice program (in offering schools) during the grade 6 year. For the first five months of the school year students spend 80% of their time learning French, with the other 20% being for math. The rest of the core curriculum (Social Studies, Science, and Language Arts in English) is condensed for the second half of the year, comprising 80% of the time, with one hour for French. In the grade 7 year students continue to have one hour of core French per day. This results in 600 hours of French instruction over the two years.\n\nNew Brunswick, being an officially bilingual province, has both anglophone and francophone school districts.\nQuebec's educations system provides ESL on a more restricted basis to the children of immigrants and to students who are members of the province's Francophone majority.\n\nPage 5 of a Report of the OECD-CERI Learning Sciences and Brain Research titled \"Shallow vs. Non-shallow Orthographies and Learning to Read Workshop\", published in 2005, states:\n‘A comparative study by Seymour \"et al\"., undertaken in 2003 […], shows that after one year of instruction, English children show the lowest percentage of correct word reading on a scale in comparison to other European countries, with only 30-40% correct words compared to German, Greek and Finnish, with close to 100%.’\n\nThe same report ranks French orthography among the more difficult European ones to learn too.\n\nOrthographic, grammatical, lexical, and other rules and exceptions to and redundancies in them determine a language’s ease of learning. On page 81 of \"L’enseignement des langues étrangères comme politique publique\", produced at the request of the \"Haut Conseil de l’Evaluation de l’École\" (in France) in 2005, François Grin quotes a study from the Department of Pedagogical Cybernetics of the University of Paderborn that reveals how a French-speaker can reach the same level after 150 hours of Esperanto as he can after more than 1,000 of Italian and 1,500 of English.\n\nAccording to the Conference Board of Canada, referencing functional literacy in an official language in 2011: ‘Forty-eight per cent of Canadian adults have inadequate literacy skills—a significant increase from a decade ago.’\n\nIn \"Parlez-vous francais? The advantages of bilingualism in Canada\", published by the Canadian Council on Learning, page 6 states:\n\n‘Although most Canadian school children are taught English or French as a second language in school, these lessons often fail to yield functional bilingualism. For example, New Brunswick’s French Second Language Commission recently reported that fewer than 1% of the students who enrolled in “core French” in 1994 had met the provincial minimum goal by 2007. And fewer than 10% of students who enrolled in early-French immersion in 1995 had attained the provincial goal by 2007.’\n\"The state of French-Language Education Programs in Canada: Report of the Standing Committee on Official Languages\", published in 2014, presents the following quote from the Peel District School Board’s Committee from 2011-2012:\n\n‘The review committee found that although principals were finding it very difficult to hire teachers who are qualified to teach French immersion, qualifications alone were not enough to ensure a quality program.\n‘The review committee heard repeatedly from different stakeholders regarding instances where a teacher had the requisite paper qualifications but was not fluent in French. Furthermore, the review committee heard that qualified and fluent teachers sometimes chose to leave the French immersion program to teach in the English program. The review committee heard that although it is very difficult for principals to find French immersion teachers for permanent contract teaching assignments, it is even more problematic for them to find FI teachers for long-term occasional assignments.’\n\n\"Section 4.6 of L’amélioration de l’enseignement de l’anglais, langue seconde, au primaire : un équilibre à trouver\", published by the Conseil supérieur de l’éducation (in Quebec) in 2014 reveals a struggle to recruit enough qualified second-language teachers for public schools in Quebec too.\n\nJean Delisle stated in an article tilted \"Fifty Years of Parliamentary Interpretation\":\n\n‘Interpretation is a good barometer of government activity. In the 1960s, a decade that interpreter Ronald Després called the “golden age of simultaneous interpretation,” it was not unusual for interpreters to put in 80-hour weeks. Marguerite Ouimet said that she spent more time in a booth than at home, as did many of her colleagues. From the mid-1970s onward, technician Jean-Pierre Dulude, whose outstanding skill was widely recognized in interpretation circles, supervised the installation of some 60 interpreters’ booths on Parliament Hill, and in federal departments and buildings across the country. He took great care to ensure that the booths met national standards.’\n\nThe article goes on to state:\n\n‘The House cannot sit without interpreters and it has adjourned when the interpretation system experienced technical difficulties.’\n\nA report of the Advisory Working Group on the Parliamentary Translation Services of the Standing Committee on Internal Economy, Budgets and Administration revealed on 15 March 2018:\n\n‘Many of the respondents cited inconsistency and quality control as major issues when it came to translation. The quality of the service varies greatly from one translator to another and there are often errors in the translations even when a request for a secondary review is made. Some respondents noted that the two language versions of committee reports often do not convey the same meaning and that, in some cases, the translation is simply erroneous. Much time is reportedly spent by senators and staff reviewing the documents in question and ensuring that the translation is accurate. Other respondents reported that longer documents that had been translated by more than one individual were disjointed and difficult to read because a common style had not been used. Recommendations ranged from the need to hire specialized translators to facilitate the translation of committee reports on technical matters, to ensuring proper revision of translations before their delivery, and to the need to provide for a feedback mechanism that could be used to alert the Translation Bureau when errors were detected.\n\n‘Issues related to the quality of interpretation were also raised. Some senators reported hearing literal translations that did not convey the true meaning of what the speaker had said. Others noted that regional expressions were not properly interpreted. Many respondents asked if it would be possible to have the same interpreters covering the Chamber and specific committees as this would ensure continuity. The need to upgrade the Senate's technological equipment was raised as devices in some committee rooms did not work properly. Some committee clerks noted that a more modern way for clerks to provide material to the interpreters was needed. Such technological upgrades could make communication of information quicker and more efficient.’\n\nIn Official Language Policies of the Canadian Provinces: Costs and Benefits in 2006, published by the Fraser Institute in 2012, we read on page xii:\n\n‘In our previous study, Official Language Policies at the Federal Level in Canada: Costs and Benefits in 2006, we estimated that the total cost of federal bilingualism at $1.8 billion. Since these expenditures include transfers to provinces that are spent by them on official language programs (Vaillancourt and Coche, 2009: 25, table 1), aggregating federal, provincial, and local spending must net out these transfers to avoid double counting. Once transfers are netted out, we have $1.5 billion at the federal level and $868 million at the local and provincial level for a total rounded of $2.4 billion or $85 per capita for 2006/07.’\n\nIn \"Parlez-vous francais? The advantages of bilingualism in Canada\", published by the Canadian Council on Learning, page 4 states:\n\n‘The bilingual advantage appears to extend to individual income. According to the 2001 Canadian census, people who speak both official languages had a median income ($24,974) that was nearly 10% higher than that of those who speak English only ($22,987) and 40% higher than that of those who speak French only ($17,659). Similar gaps remain after controlling for individual characteristics such as educational attainment and work experience.’\n\nIn an Article in the National Post of 10 November 2017, Member of Parliament Romeo Saganash stated in reference to requiring Supreme-Court judges to speak English and French:\n\n“All Indigenous people in Canada speak one official language or the other, English or French,” Saganash argued. “To exclude that part of the population from the possibility of sitting on the Supreme Court has always seemed unacceptable to me.”\n\nSenator Murray Sinclair has opposed requiring Supreme Court judges to know both official languages too.\n\nThe linguistic provisions of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, the Official Languages Act, the Consumer Packaging and Labelling Act, the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act, and other laws obligate a greater demand for English and French speakers than a freer linguistic market would require. This, combined with English and French being more difficult to learn than some languages due to their orthographic (especially for the Deaf, dyslexics, and Deaf-dyslexics), grammatical, and lexical particularities, accentuates the wealth gap between official and Deaf, indigenous, and other unofficial language communities by limiting market supply and blocking equal access to Federal and federally-regulated employment ranging from the packaging and labelling industries all the way up to appointments to the Supreme Court of Canada for unofficial language communities. Perry Bellegarde and Romeo Sagansh have addressed this concern as it applies to indigenous peoples.\n\nThe mandate of the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism was to \n\nThe same report clarifies the status of Canada’s indigenous peoples relative to ‘the two founding races’ in its Book I, General Introduction, Paragraph 21:\n\nChapter I, Paragraph 19 states:\n\nBook II, Chapter V.E.1, Paragraph 325 indicates that the government's policy with reference to indigenous Canadians was ‘to integrate these students as completely as possible into the existing provincial school systems.’\n\nCommissioner J. B. Rudnyckyj wrote a separate statement challenging his colleagues’ proposals for an exclusively Anglo-French language policy. Esperanto Services, Ottawa; the Indian-Eskimo Association of Canada, Toronto; and other organizations representing different indigenous and other unofficial linguistic communities likewise presented briefs that presented alternative notions to that of 'two founding races.'\n\nEnglish and French Canadians of the Pacific Northwest sometimes used Chinook Jargon (also known as Chinuk Wawa) to interact not only with the local indigenous, Chinese, and other populations but even with one another up until at least 1900 after which it began to decline as a result of the Spanish flu, World War I, and the Canadian Indian residential school system. Some English and French Canadians have turned to Esperanto since at least 1901 in Quebec when A. P. Beauchemin founded the Esperanto group La Lumo (published from 1902 to 1904 and read by 1710 readers).\n\nBoth Esperanto and Chinook Jargon (possibly fed in part by a combination of the low rate of success in official-second-language instruction in Canada's public schools, a growing belief in the need for reconciliation, the comparative ease of learning of these languages, the comparative grammatical precision of Esperanto conferring on it an advantage as a source language for translation and machine translation, the relative decline of English in an increasingly international world economy, and the advantages of direct communication in a standard language over translation and broken language) have experienced revivals since the 2000s leading to the publication of a self-instruction book for Chinuk Wawa in Esperanto in 2018.\n\nPeople have made use of the mobile application Amikumu to network with one another in Esperanto since 22 April 2017 and in other languages since the LangFest in Montreal on 25 August 2017. It has since spread to 130 countries speaking 525 languages.\n\nIn Lament for a Notion, Scott Reid proposes maintaining the present official languages but deregulating them, limiting them mostly to the official sphere, and applying the territoriality principle except where numbers warrant it.\n\nFormer Quebec Premier Jean Charest had called on the Federal Government to apply the Charter of the French Language to all federally-regulated institutions operating in the province of Quebec.\n\nQuebec has tended to oppose calls on the part of French-speakers to broaden French-language rights outside of that province such as when it opposed the Commission scolaire francophone du Yukon’s case at the supreme Court of Canada fearing that a victory for the French-language school board in the Yukon could have negatively affected the promotion of French in Quebec.\n\nIn an article written by Gloria Galloway and published in the Globe and Mail on 8 July 2015, Galloway writes about how the Assembly of First Nations wants to make all of Canada’s indigenous languages official. She writes:\n\n‘The head of the Assembly of First Nations is calling for the nearly 60 indigenous languages spoken in Canada to be declared official along with English and French, an expensive proposition but one that he says is becoming more urgent as the mother tongues of aboriginal peoples disappear.\n‘Perry Bellegarde, who was elected National Chief of the AFN last fall, agrees it would not be easy to require translations of all indigenous languages to be printed on the sides of cereal boxes and milk cartons.\n\n‘\"That would be the ultimate goal,\" Mr. Bellegarde said in an interview on Wednesday at the three-day annual general meeting of the AFN, Canada's largest indigenous organization. \"But let's do small steps to get there.\"’\nRomeo Saganash has expressed the belief that Members of Parliament have a constitutional right to speak any of Canada’s indigenous languages in Parliament.\n\nGiven the logistic and economic challenges of official multilingualism based on the personality principle, some proponents of an equal right to the indigenous language have proposed a policy of official indigenous unilingualism based on the territoriality principle whereby a local or regional government would have an obligation to provide services only in the local indigenous languages but not in any other of Canada’s indigenous languages.\n\nSome have proposed that Canada adopt ‘sign language’ as one of its official languages.\n\nIn Esperanto in the Modern World, compiled by Rüdiger and Vilma Sindona Eicholz in 1982, Vilma Sindona Eicholz writes in her essay A Fair Bilingualism for Canada, in the section subtitled Steps for a Better Canada, on pages 381-382:\n\n‘For every child the same amount of money should be allotted for education. Parents should have the right to send their children to a school which teaches in the language of their choice. Education standards in all non-linguistic fields should be the same, but in all schools the first language, after the language of instruction, should be Esperanto. It should be taught for one year only on a daily basis. After this year, one subject, possibly geography, should be taught in Esperanto in order to keep the language skills alive.\n\n‘In some areas there will probably not be enough children in certain languages to pay for teachers and schools. It should be up to the parents to choose the most suitable of many alternatives. Here are a few possibilities: A. Raising the necessary additional money among themselves and/or negotiating a lower salary for the teacher. B. Bussing the student to a school which teaches in the desired language. The parents would have to pay the additional expense. C. Boarding the students close to such a school. D. Putting children from a multitude of language backgrounds into one school, where the language of instruction in all subjects is Esperanto, except for lessons in the mother tongue, which would be taught separately for Croatians, Estonians, Vietnamese and Chileans for example. If there are enough students, subjects taught in the mother tongue could be enlarged. E. Let the children visit the school of another language group, but give them separate instruction in their mother tongue. F. Teach the students at home, possibly with help from cable TV or videorecorders.\n‘The only groups which I believe need and deserve our special care with respect to language rights are the Indians and the Inuit, on whose former land we live. [...] If students want to continue formal education in trade schools, high schools or universities, they might have to switch over to Esperanto as the language of instruction, because they might have to join the natives or other Canadians speaking other languages. But never should a native be instructed in the language of another ethnic group.’\n\nSuch a policy would conform to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Section 26 (3):\n‘Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.’\n\nPolls show that Canadians consistently and strongly support two key aspects of Canadian official languages policy: \nHowever, among English-speaking Canadians there is only limited support for broadening the scope of official bilingualism, and reservations exist among Anglophones as to the intrusiveness and/or fairness of the policy. Among Francophones, polls have revealed no such reservations.\n\nAmong Anglophones, support for providing federal French-language services to French-speakers living outside Quebec has remained consistently high over a quarter-century period—79% in 1977 and 76% in 2002. Over the same period, support among English-speakers for the \"right to French language education outside Quebec where numbers make costs reasonable\" has ranged from 79% to 91%. Among French-speaking Canadians, support for these policies was even higher.\n\nThe national consensus has, at times, broken down when other aspects of official bilingualism are examined. However, a significant shift in anglophone opinion has occurred since the mid-2000s, in favour of bilingualism.\n\nAccording to a review of three decades' worth of poll results published in 2004 by Andre Turcotte and Andrew Parkin, \"Francophones in Quebec are almost unanimous in their support of the official languages policy\" but \"there is a much wider variation in opinion among Anglophones ...\"\n\nThis variation can be seen, for example, in responses to the question, \"Are you, personally, in favour of bilingualism for all of Canada?\" Between 1988 and 2003, support for this statement among Francophones ranged between 79% and 91%, but among Anglophones support was never higher than 48%, and fell as low as 32% in the early 1990s. The ebb in support for bilingualism among anglophones can likely be attributed to political developments in the late 1980s and 1990s, including the failure of the Meech Lake Accord, and the 1995 referendum on Quebec independence.\n\nBy 2006, affirmative responses to the question \"Are you personally in favour of bilingualism for all of Canada?\" had increased considerably, with 72% of Canadians (and 64% of anglophones) agreeing. 70% of Canadians, and 64% of anglophones were \"in favour of bilingualism for [their] province\". Support for bilingualism is thought likely to continue to increase, as young anglophones are more favourable to it than their elders.\n\nAccording to Turcotte and Parkin, other poll data reveal that \"in contrast to Francophones, Anglophones, in general, have resisted putting more government effort and resources into promoting bilingualism ... What is revealing, however, is that only 11% of those outside Quebec said they disagreed with bilingualism in any form. Opposition seems to be directed to the actions of the federal government, rather than to bilingualism itself ... [T]his distinction is key to understanding public opinion on the issue.\" This helps to explain results that would otherwise seem contradictory, such as a 1994 poll in which 56% of Canadians outside Quebec indicated that they either strongly or moderately supported official bilingualism, but 50% agreed with a statement that \"the current official bilingualism policy should be scrapped because it's expensive and inefficient.\"\n\nIn English Canada, there is some regional variation in attitudes towards federal bilingualism policy, but it is relatively modest when compared to the divergence between the views expressed by Quebecers and those expressed in the rest of the country. For example, in a poll conducted in 2000, only 22% of Quebecers agreed with the statement, “We have gone too far in pushing bilingualism,” while positive response rates in English Canada ranged from a low of 50% in the Atlantic to a high of 65% in the Prairies.\n\nBoth French-speaking and English-speaking Canadians tend to regard the capacity to speak the other official language as having cultural and economic value, and both groups have indicated that they regard bilingualism as an integral element of the Canadian national identity. Once again, however, there is a marked divergence between the responses of French-speaking and English-speaking Canadians. In a 2003 poll, 75% of Francophones indicated that \"having two official languages, English and French\" made them proud to be Canadian. Among English-speakers, 55% said that bilingualism made them proud, but far higher percentages (86% and 94%, respectively) indicated that multiculturalism and the Charter of Rights made them feel proud.\n\nFrom time to time, boards or panels are commissioned, either by the federal government or the government of one of the provinces, to conduct hearings into the public’s views on matters of policy. Some of these hearings have dealt largely, or even primarily, with official languages policy, and the responses that they have collected provide snapshots into the state of public opinion at particular points in time.\n\nThe \"Advisory Committee on the Official Languages of New Brunswick\" was commissioned by the provincial legislature as a way of determining the response of the population to the 1982 Poirier-Bastarache Report, which had recommended a considerable expansion of French-language services. Public hearings were conducted in twelve cities and towns across the province in 1985, and a report was submitted by the committee in 1986.\n\nThe briefs submitted to the Advisory Committee were subsequently summarized in an academic study of the hearings in the following terms:\n\nIn late 1990, a six-man \"Citizens’ Forum on Canada’s Future\" was established by the federal government with a mandate to engage in \"a dialogue and discussion with and among Canadians ... to discuss the values and characteristics fundamental to the well-being of Canada\". The Forum, which was headed by former Commissioner of Official Languages Keith Spicer, published a report in June 1991, which included a detailed discussion of Canadians’ reactions to a variety of issues, including federal official languages policy.\n\nThese comments, which probably represent the most extensive consultation ever with Canadians on the subject of official bilingualism, were compiled statistically by the Spicer Commission, and tend to reinforce the findings of pollsters, that Canadians are favourable towards bilingual services, but frustrated with the implementation of official languages policy. Thus, for example, nearly 80% of group discussions sponsored by the Commission produced favourable comments from participants on what the Commission's report refers to as \"bilingualism generally\", but nearly 80% of these discussions produced negative comments on \"official languages policy\".\n\nThese results prompted Spicer to write,\n\nA number of groups exist, which, as part of their mandate, seek to promote official bilingualism or to extend the scope of the policy (although advocacy is not always the sole, or even the primary activity, of the groups). Among these groups:\n\nA number of groups have existed, since the first \"Official Languages Act\" was proclaimed in 1969, which sought to end official bilingualism or to reduce the scope of the policy. Among these groups:\n\nIn the first decade or so following the 1969 adoption of the Act, opposition to the new policy sometimes took a radical form that has subsequently nearly disappeared. Books such as Jock V. Andrew's \"Bilingual Today, French Tomorrow\", advocated either the repeal of the \"Official Languages Act\" or an end to the policy of official bilingualism. Leonard Jones, the mayor of Moncton, New Brunswick, was an aggressive opponent of bilingualism in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Jones challenged the validity of the \"Official Languages Act\" in court, arguing that the subject matter was outside the jurisdiction of the federal government. In 1974, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled against Jones, and found the law constitutional. In 1991, a local resurgence in anti-bilingualism sentiments allowed the Confederation of Regions Party to win 21.2% of the vote in New Brunswick's provincial election and to briefly form the official opposition with eight seats in the provincial legislature.\n\nSome organizations or individuals within certain movements also propose introducing a more inclusive language policy either via official multilingualism, or an official unilingual language policy in an auxiliary language so as to intrude minimally into the first-language choice of residents. Such ideas are sometimes inspired by Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights relating to discrimination on the basis of language, and Article 26(3) of the same Declaration so as to give parents the freedom “to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.” Others can be inspired by religious or other beliefs.\n\nAssembly of First Nations: National First Nations Language Strategy, presented by the Assembly of First Nations on 5 July 2007, inspired by previous statements including the report of the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples presented in 1996, rejects official bilingualism in favour of linguistic equality for speakers of indigenous languages:\n\n“First Nations seek legislated protection via a First Nations Languages Act that would be consistent with First Nations and Government of Canada laws dealing with languages.”\n\nThe issues on which Canada’s political parties have most recently shown divergent voting patterns are two private members’ bills.\n\nThe first, \"An Act to amend the Official Languages Act (Charter of the French Language)\" (Bill C-482), was introduced by Bloc MP Pauline Picard. If adopted, it would have had the effect of amending the \"Official Languages Act\", the \"Canada Labour Code\", and the \"Canada Business Corporations Act\", to cause them to conform to the \"Charter of the French Language\", “effectively making the federal government French-only in the province,” according to \"Maclean’s\". This bill was defeated on May 2008, with Bloc and NDP MPs voting in favour and Conservative and Liberal MPs opposed.\n\nThe second private member’s bill is NDP MP Yvon Godin’s \"Act to amend the Supreme Court Act (understanding the official languages)\" (Bill C-232). If adopted, this bill will have the effect of blocking any candidate who is not already sufficiently bilingual to understand oral arguments in both official languages from being appointed to the Supreme Court. This bill was passed at third reading on March 31, with all NDP, Liberal and Bloc members in support and all Conservative MPs opposed. but did not pass the Senate.\n\nThe Conservative Party of Canada was created in 2003 by the merger of the old Progressive Conservative Party of Canada and the Canadian Alliance. The new party adopted the principles of the old Progressive Conservatives as its founding principles, with only a handful of changes. One of these was the addition of the following founding principle, which is lifted almost verbatim from Section 16(1) of the \"Charter of Rights\":\n\n\"A belief that English and French have equality of status, and equal rights and privileges as to their use in all institutions of the Parliament and Government of Canada.\"\n\nAt its founding convention in 2005, the new party added the following policy to its \"Policy Declaration\" (the official compilation of the policies that it had adopted at the convention):\n\nPrior to this, in the 1980s and 1990s, the Reform Party of Canada had advocated the policy's repeal. However, the party's position moderated with time. By 1999, the \"Blue Book\" (the party's declaration of its then-current policies) stated that \"The Reform Party supports official bilingualism in key federal institutions, such as Parliament and the Supreme Court, and in critical federal services in parts of the country where need is sufficient to warrant services on a cost-effective basis.\" By 2002, the policy declaration of the Reform Party's political successor, the Canadian Alliance, had been moderated further, and stated that it was \"the federal government's responsibility to uphold minority rights\" by providing services in both languages in any \"rural township or city neighbourhood where at least ten percent of the local population uses either English or French in its daily life\".\n\nThe Liberal Party sees itself as the party of official bilingualism, as it was a Liberal prime minister, Pierre Trudeau, who enacted the first \"Official Languages Act\" in 1969 and who entrenched detailed protections for the two official languages in the \"Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" in 1982.\n\nThe depth of the party’s commitment to official bilingualism is demonstrated by the fact that the constitution of the Liberal Party contains provisions modelled almost word-for-word on Section 16(1) of the \"Charter of Rights\": \"English and French are the official languages of the Party and have equality of status and equal rights and privileges as to their use in all federal institutions of the Party. In pursuing its fundamental purposes and in all its activities, the Party must preserve and promote the status, rights and privileges of English and French.\"\n\nNew Democrat MPs voted in favour of the 1969 \"Official Languages Act\", the 1988 \"Official Languages Act\", and the protections for the two official languages contained in the \"Charter of Rights\". More recently, the party has edged towards supporting an asymmetrical version of bilingualism. Early in 2008, the party’s languages critic, Yvon Godin, stated that its MPs would vote in favour of a bill, sponsored by the Bloc Québécois, which would cause federal institutions to operate on a French-preferred or French-only basis in Quebec.\n\nIn 2017, NDP MP Romeo Saganash spoke forcefully against making Anglo-French bilingualism a requirement for Supreme-Court judges in addition to criticizing official bilingualism generally due to the linguistic barriers it imposes on indigenous candidates.\n\nAlthough the main objective of the Bloc Québécois is to assist in the secession of Quebec, the party’s parliamentary caucus has maintained an active interest in issues relating to official languages policy (for example, sending MPs to participate in the standing Commons committee on official languages). The party seeks to alter federal language policy, as it applies within Quebec, so as to eliminate the statutory equality of English that is guaranteed under the \"Official Languages Act\" and other federal legislation. In recent years, this has included introducing a private member's bill titled \"An Act to amend the Official Languages Act (Charter of the French Language)\" (better known as Bill C-482), intended to supersede the \"Official Languages Act\" with the \"Charter of the French Language\" for all federally regulated corporations within Quebec.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6700088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6700088", "title": "Rebecca Wright", "text": "Rebecca Wright\n\nRebecca Wright (5 December 1945, Springfield, Ohio – 29 January 2006, Chevy Chase, Maryland) was an American ballerina, teacher, choreographer and ballet school director.\n\nHer background in gymnastics and tap dance was a pivotal influence in early dance training under Josephine Schwarz at the Dayton Ballet. In 1966 she joined the then prominent but small Joffrey Ballet as a principal until 1975, becoming a soloist with American Ballet Theatre (ABT) until her retirement from dance in 1982. She can be seen on television and on DVD as The Doll in Mikhail Baryshnikov's production of \"The Nutcracker\", which was first telecast in 1977.\n\nAfter her retirement she married fellow dancer George de la Peña (who also appears in the Baryshnikov \"Nutcracker\") and turned to teaching and choreographing before becoming director of the Washington School of Ballet in 2004.\n\nDe la Peña and Wright had two children before they separated.\n\nShe held a dance professorship at the University of California at Los Angeles and was director of dance programs at Adelphi University in Garden City, NY. She also spent several years as director of dance programs at the private St. Paul's School in Concord, NH.\n\nIn 2004 she succeeded Mary Day, the legendary founder of the Washington School of Ballet and Washington Ballet, who had run the school for 60 years. Under Wright's leadership school enrollment grew from 350 to 450 students.\n\nShe died in 2006 at her home in Chevy Chase, Maryland, of cancer.\n"}
{"id": "3477886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3477886", "title": "Response to intervention", "text": "Response to intervention\n\nIn education, response to intervention (commonly abbreviated RTI or RtI) is an approach to academic intervention used in the United States to provide early, systematic, and appropriately intensive assistance to children who are at risk for or already underperforming as compared to appropriate grade- or age-level standards. RTI seeks to promote academic success through universal screening, early intervention, frequent progress monitoring, and increasingly intensive research-based instruction or interventions for children who continue to have difficulty. RTI is a multileveled approach for aiding students that is adjusted and modified as needed if they are failing.\n\nIn terms of identifying students with specific learning disabilities (SLD), RTI was proposed as an alternative to the ability–achievement discrepancy model, which requires children to exhibit a significant discrepancy between their ability (often measured by IQ testing) and academic achievement (as measured by their grades and standardized testing). Methods to identify students with SLD have been controversial for decades and proponents of RTI claim that the process brings more clarity to the Specific Learning Disability (SLD) category of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEA 2004), while opponents claim that RTI simply identifies low achieving students rather than students with learning disabilities.\n\nRTI is originally a special education term that has broadened into general education framework that involves research-based instruction and interventions, regular monitoring of student progress, and the subsequent use of these data over time to make a variety of educational decisions, including, but not limited to SLD eligibility. To facilitate this broadened conception of RTI, a shift to labeling this as one of the approaches of a Multi-Tier System of Supports (MTSS) occurring in schools and the professional literature. Key to the RTI process is the application of scientifically based interventions that have been demonstrated to work in randomized controlled trials. A goal of the RTI process is to apply accountability to educational program by focusing on programs that work rather than programs that simply look, sound, or feel good.\n\nRTI follows a number of core assumptions: \n\nA learning disability is defined as a neurological disorder that affects the brain's ability to receive, process, store, and respond to information. They are a group of disorders that can impact many areas of learning, including reading, writing, spelling, math, listening, and oral expression.\n\nIn the process of identifying learning disabilities, RTI differs from the formerly standard \"ability–achievement discrepancy\" approach in that decisions are based on outcomes of targeted interventions rather than mathematical discrepancies between scores achieved on standardized assessments.\n\nIn the RTI process, service delivery is typically divided into three levels (tiers) of support, with the intensity of interventions increasing with each level. Tier 1 is focused specifically within the core curriculum, with instruction and interventions targeting all students. Approximately 80% to 85% of the general student body should be able to meet grade level norms without additional assistance beyond the first tier. Students who consistently do not perform within the expected level of performance through Tier 1 instruction are then provided with additional supplementary interventions at Tier 2, which typically involves small group instruction. Approximately 3% to 6% of students will continue to have difficulties after Tier 2 interventions; these students will then receive Tier 3 intervention services, which is the most intense level of intervention (often one-on-one) provided in the regular education environment. As RTI is a regular education initiative, all three tiers of services are intended to be provided as supplements to, not replacements for, the regular education curriculum; there are some, however, who view Tier 3 as special education.\n\nThe first level of data collected in the RTI process comes from universal school-wide screenings. These screening assessments are typically given to all students within targeted grade levels, and cover basic academic subjects such as reading and mathematics. Most screening measures aim to be practical and efficient to administer, with the goal of identifying students who may require further assessments and interventions.\n\nTo evaluate student performance on the screening measures, scores are compared to specific criteria (\"criterion referenced\") or to broad norms (\"norm referenced\"). When specific criteria are used, \"cut scores\" are established to evaluate students against a specific level of proficiency (e.g., achieving a score of 15 or above); in a normative comparison, students' scores are compared against those of a larger group (e.g., scoring above the 25th percentile compared to a national sample of 3rd grade students).\n\nScreenings usually occur three times per year (fall, winter, and spring), and the data from these assessments help to guide instruction through the three tiers of the RTI process. This is important not only for identifying students who are having difficulties, but also for identifying possible areas of improvement in the general classroom instruction in the cases where too many students fall below expectations. \nBecause a single universal screening at the beginning of the year can over-identify students who require preventative intervention, the National Research Center on Learning Disabilities recommends that schools also integrate at least five weeks of weekly progress monitoring to identify students who require preventative intervention.\n\nCore curriculum in the classroom should be research-based and field tested. This means, based on evidence from congregating research, that the core curriculum contains all the fundamentals found necessary to efficiently teach reading and has a recognized record of achievement. Such curriculum is to be delivered by \"highly qualified\" teachers adequately trained to deliver the selected instruction as intended, that is, with fidelity to design.\n\nProgress monitoring is a set of assessment procedures for determining the extent to which students are benefiting from classroom instruction and for monitoring effectiveness of curriculum.\n\nCurriculum-based measurement (CBM) is often used to collect data on interventions and their effectiveness to determine what works best for an individual student. Additional methods are attempted until students \"respond\" to the intervention and improve their skills. Students that do not respond, or respond at significantly low rates, may be deemed to have biologically based learning disabilities, rather than simply learning difficulties.\n\nProgress monitoring is the scientifically based practice of assessing students' academic performance on a regular basis for three purposes: \n\nThree tiers of Scientifically Research-Based Interventions (SRBIs) of increasing intensity incorporate the key components of RTI and help ensure the academic growth and achievement of students.\n\nThe first tier states that all students receive core classroom instruction that is differentiated and utilizes strategies and materials that are scientifically research-based. Assessment in the classroom should be ongoing and effective in that it clearly identifies the strengths and weaknesses for each learner. Any necessary interventions at this level are within the framework of the general education classroom and can be in the form of differentiated instruction, small group review, or one-on-one remediation of a concept.\n\nProgress monitoring in Tier 1 uses universal screening assessments to show individual student growth over time and to determine whether students are progressing as expected. In this process, data are collected, students are identified using benchmark scores, and measurable goals are set for the next data collection point for those who display difficulties. The team then follows a problem-solving process to determine interventions for at-risk students that will work within whole-class instructions. The classroom teacher implements the interventions, observations are conducted to ensure the fidelity of the classroom instruction, and the problem-solving team periodically reviews the progress of students.\n\nIn the second tier, supplemental interventions may occur within or outside of the general education classroom, and progress monitoring occurs at more frequent intervals. Core instruction is still delivered by the classroom teacher, but small groups of similar instructional levels may work together under a teacher's instruction and/or guidance. This type of targeted instruction is typically for 30 minutes per day, two to four days per week, for a minimum of nine weeks. This targeted instruction may occur in the general education setting or outside in a smaller group setting with a specialized teacher (such as a Literacy Support teacher for struggling readers).\n\nIn Tier 2, the main purpose of progress monitoring is to determine whether interventions are successful in helping students learn at an appropriate rate. Decision rules are created to determine when a student might no longer require extra interventions, when the interventions need to be changed, or when a student might be identified for special education.\n\nOral language abilities at the onset of reading intervention programs are an excellent predictor of final outcomes. Both English as a first language and English-language learners demonstrate that the greater the oral language impairment, the greater the associated growth from RTI. Phonics-based RTI programs are most effective prior to grade 1, however, after grade 1 comprehension and mixed RTI programs are associated with greater effect sizes.\n\nTier three is for students who require more intense, explicit and individualized instruction and have not shown sufficient response to Tier 1 and Tier 2 interventions. This type of targeted instruction is delivered for a minimum of two 30-minute sessions every week for nine to twelve weeks. The interventions in this tier may be similar to those in Tier 2 except that they are intensified in focus, frequency, and duration. The instruction in Tier 3 is typically delivered outside of the general education classroom. Programs, strategies, and procedures are designed and employed to supplement, enhance, and support Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruction by remediation of the relevant area and development of compensatory strategies. If Tier 3 is not successful, a child is considered for the first time as potentially having a learning disability.\n\nIn some cases, Tier 3 is considered to be special education, with instruction being provided to individual students or small groups by special education teachers \"in place of\" general education instruction (rather than as a supplement). Initial goals are established through an individualized education program (IEP), which is guided by the results of a comprehensive evaluation, and ongoing progress monitoring helps to direct the teaching process. Special education instruction likely will be considerably longer than the 10 to 12 weeks of supplemental instruction delivered in Tier 2 and beyond. The frequency of special education instruction depends upon student need, and the criteria to exit special education are specified and monitored so that placement can be flexible.\n\nThe number of schools implementing RTI continues to grow and 61% of schools surveyed in 2010 indicated that they had fully implemented or were in the process of implementing RTI. However, most schools in the survey indicated that the continued to focus on reading interventions at the elementary school. RTI is primarily implemented by grade-level teams or professional learning communities as part of a school-wide problem-solving plan, and previous research found that implementing RTI resulted in several positive outcomes such as reductions in students referred to and placed into special education, more students passing state accountability tests, and increased academic skills among students at-risk for reading failure.\n\nIn an RTI model, fidelity is important at both the school level (e.g., implementation of the process) and the teacher level (e.g., implementation of instruction). Although the concept of fidelity of implementation is supported by research and is generally viewed as common sense, there are practical challenges associated with achieving high levels of fidelity.\nFactors that can reduce fidelity when implementing instruction include:\nFactors that can increase fidelity when implementing an RTI model include:\n\nRTI is a general education process that is used in schools to ensure students receive the supports they need to be successful and excel in school. In the educational literature, RTI is often referred to as a \"Standard Protocol Approach\", as a \"Problem Solving Model.\", or as a hybrid of the two. However, some have challenged a dichotomous view of RTI because both models incorporate problem solving to identify the academic or social-emotional difficulty the student is having and both use a systematic, universal screening procedure during Tier 1 to determine which students are having difficulties meeting age or grade level benchmarks for a specific skill. Typically, Curriculum Based Measurement (CBM) or other predictive data are used to flag the students who are not meeting expected levels of performance. In the problem-solving model approach, the teacher typically refers the student to a problem-solving team to ascertain the challenges a student is having within the classroom. Using information collected from the classroom teacher and others, observations, etc., the team determines what additional supports the student might need to address the learning gap. Standard-protocol approaches tend to rely more on grade-level teams and professional learning communities to make intervention decisions, but both approaches use a problem-solving procedure to make decisions, which makes the distinction somewhat meaningless. Many schools rely on grade-level teams to make intervention decision and use a standardized intervention for tier 2, but then rely on a problem-solving team to develop individualized interventions for tier 3.\n\nWhen a student is identified as having difficulties in school, a team provides interventions of increasing intensity to help the child catch up with the rest of his or her peers. When students continue to struggle, even when appropriate evidence-based practices have been delivered with fidelity, students may be referred for a special education evaluation. Parents can request a special education evaluation at any time in this process, however. While the RTI process can be a way to ensure that each student is afforded the opportunity to learn, some opponents feel that it allows school districts to avoid or delay identifying students who need special education services. Proponents would point out that RTI is not the process of identifying students with a learning disability by starting tiered interventions when a disability is suspected, but is the process of examining data that already exist from implementing a tiered intervention model, which should expedite the identification process. The expected outcome of RTI is improved instruction that will result in improved outcomes for all students\n\nThere are at least four main reasons for implementing RTI: 1) to increase achievement for all students; 2) to reduce racial/ethnic disproportionate representation of minority students in special education; 3) to increase collaboration and integration of general and special education; 4) and to identify students with learning disabilities through a different lens than the IQ-achievement discrepancy model. RTI proponents claim that when interventions work, fewer children, particularly minority children, are referred for special education, and that the RTI model acts as a safeguard, ensuring that a child is not given a label of a disability inappropriately. In addition, proponents state that RTI helps school districts by eliminating unnecessary referrals, which drain time and resources. Critics express concern, however, that in attempting to eliminate unnecessary referrals, RTI may also delay or eliminate necessary referrals.\n\nProponents feel that response to intervention is the best opportunity for giving all students the additional time and support needed to learn at high levels, and see great benefit in that it applies to the classroom teachers, paraeducators, counselors, and the administration. The RTI process can help identify students who are at-risk, guide adjustments to instruction, monitor student progress, and then make other recommendations as necessary. The objective is that with minor adjustments or simple interventions, students may respond and achieve at higher levels.\n\nRTI is also very useful when working with students who have severe emotional problems. The structure and evaluation of RTI will help this particular group of students to be successful in the academic environment.\n\nReading difficulties is one of the most common reasons students need intervention support. Reading goals can develop reading self-concept, which influence reading fluency skills and promotes the importance of goal setting in reading intervention programs. It is imperative that students monitor these goals and celebrate their progress. Students involved in multiple-component reading intervention programs show significant improvement, and students in different socioeconomic, racial, and intellectual quotient groups make equivalent gains.\n\nThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) was revised and signed into law in 2004 and became effective in July 2006. According to the law, a specific learning disability is a disorder of one or more of the basic psychological processes that adversely affects academic achievement in one or more domains (e.g., reading, writing, math, language). There are three methods of SLD identification under IDEA, as defined in §300.8(c)(10) (OSERS Final Regulations-8/06):\n(The \"third method\" is often considered a \"processing strengths and weaknesses\" model.)\n\nThe 2004 reauthorization of IDEA makes mention of RTI as a method of part of the process of identifying SLD: \n\nRTI was included in the regulations due to considerable concerns raised by both the House and Senate Committees regarding proponents of RTI claims about the use of IQ tests to identify learning disabled students. There was also recognition in these committees of a growing body of scientific research supporting methods of pre-referral interventions that resolved learning difficulties short of classification. However, the final regulations also allow a third method of SLD identification, often considered a processing strengths and weaknesses model.\n\nThe IDEA Committee Conference Report (CCR) discusses the use of scientifically based early intervention programs, describes a model response-to-intervention program, and recommends the development of the most effective implementation of responsiveness to intervention models. The report describes such a model as an essential service for reducing the need to label children as disabled.\n\nFirst, it should be noted that whatever procedures are used to evaluate students as eligible for special education in the category of specific learning disabilities (SLD) must conform to the requirements of the IDEA regulations (2006), which indicate that a full and individual evaluation of a student suspected as having an SLD must address four qualifications. First, the evaluation must document that \"...the child does not achieve adequately for the child's age or to meet State-approved grade-level standards in one or more of the following areas, when provided with learning experiences and instruction appropriate for the child's age or state-approved grade-level standards: oral expression, listening comprehension, written expression, basic reading skill, reading fluency skills, reading comprehension, mathematics calculation, mathematics problem-solving\" (§300.309[a][1]). Second, the evaluation must document that \"...(t)he child does not make sufficient progress to meet age or State-approved grade-level standards in one or more of the areas identified ...when using a process based on the child's response to scientific, research-based intervention; or (t)he child exhibits a pattern of strengths and weaknesses in performance, achievement, or both, relative to age, State-approved grade-level standards, or intellectual development, that is determined by the group to be relevant to the identification of a specific learning disability, using appropriate assessments (§300.309[a][2). Third, the evaluation must establish that the child's academic deficiencies are not the results of \"...visual, hearing, or motor disabilities; mental retardation; emotional disturbance; cultural factors; environmental or economic disadvantage; or Limited English proficiency\" (§300.309[a][3]) or of a lack of instruction ((§300.309[a][4]). Notably, a child must demonstrate qualifications under all four of these criteria to be identified with an SLD.\n\nKovaleski, VanDerHeyden and Shapiro (2013) used these IDEA regulations to operationalize how evaluation teams could utilize data collected during the provision of a multi-tier system of support in the evaluation process, particularly those data that inform the second SLD criterion of the child's failure to make sufficient progress in response scientific, research-based intervention (namely, RTI). Although evaluation teams may collect additional data after parents give permission for a full and individual evaluation, there should be ample data collected during three tiers of core instruction and robust intervention that can be analyzed to address all four of the SLD criteria.\n\nIn regard to the first SLD criterion, students undergoing multiple tiers of support have typically undergone multiple assessments of their academic skills, including annual state tests, universal screenings of all students that schools typically conduct three times per year, and academic assessments by specialists who deliver increasingly intense academic interventions. To qualify under this first criterion, the preponderance of these data should indicate a significant academic deficiency in at least one of the identified areas.\n\nWhen using RTI as a component of eligibility decision-making, the school entity (school district, state) establishes a policy that identifies the option of using RTI to address the second SLD criterion (and opts not to select the option to use an assessment of the student's pattern of strengths and weaknesses). The determination that the student fails to make sufficient progress toward age or grade standards is based on an analysis of the progress-monitoring data that are collected during the provision of intensive intervention, typically at tiers 2 and 3 of a multi-tier system of support. These data consist of the results of short assessments of key academic indicators that are administered as often as once or twice weekly. These data are graphed and rates of improvement calculated so that school teams can determine whether their interventions are working. These data are then compared to the rates of improvement made by typically performing students to determine whether the interventions that are being implemented in general education are sufficient to allow the student to reach grade standards. If not, a need for special education is indicated, and the student meets the second qualification for SLD.\n\nThe process for ruling out other disabilities or conditions when using RTI is similar to that employed in other special education evaluations, and consists of procedures to ensure that sensory or intellectual disabilities or environmental disadvantage or cultural/linguistic differences are not the true cause of the student's assessed academic deficiencies. Establishing that the student's deficiencies are not the result of a lack of instruction, however, requires that the evaluation team document that the school has sufficiently provided good core instruction in the basic skills and robust interventions when students have failed to profit from typical instructional practices. The evaluation team must also show evidence that the school personnel conducted repeated assessments of the student's academic problems and communicated the results of those assessments to the student's parents. Schools that use a multi-tier system of support at a high degree of fidelity can typically readily rule out lack of instruction as a cause of the student's academic concerns. On the other hand, in enacting this provision, Congress was demonstrating a concern that students might be identified with a disability (SLD) when the actual cause of their academic failure was ineffective schooling. Identifying students with SLD in failing schools is arguably problematic.\n\nCriticisms point to delays in identifying students needing special education (which was also a concern in a 2010 OSERS Memorandum), difficulties in accurately determining the presence of a learning disability, and the amount of training needed by general education teachers. RTI can require additional work for teachers, and a potentially significant change in expectations represents a great source of resistance toward RTI.\n\nAnother criticism of RTI is that while its core assumptions include \"that the educational system can effectively teach all children,\" interpretations of the approach often do not account for gifted education. An inverted pyramid showing analogous increasing interventions for gifted children could be added to the model so that all children are addressed. A framework for such an approach has been developed by the Montana Office of Public Instruction.\n\nCriticisms of the RTI model first surfaced in 2004 when IDEA identified it as a viable method for use in SLD eligibility determination Some feel that RTI is valuable for prevention, but see little empirical support for using RTI to determine learning disabilities, and have concern that it could be used to delay or deny services to children with learning disabilities. Some also argue that there are many unanswered questions about RTI implementation, and that proponents have tended to gloss over or ignore criticisms of the RTI approach. Several major research efforts have supported these contentions through findings suggesting that RTI does not produce reliable sets of responders and non-responders. If RTI does not produce reliable sets of responders/nonresponders, it would be difficult to use this approach to determine learning disabilities.\n\nTechnology is becoming increasingly important in improving instructional practices and student achievement. Tools that educators can utilize within their classrooms include weblogs, wikis, RSS aggregators, social bookmarking, online photo galleries, audio/visual casting, Twitter, and social networking sites. Many of these tools can be used for team-based learning and in facilitating students' use of higher forms of thinking such as analysis, evaluation, and synthesis.\n\nProperly integrated technology can increase student learning in areas such as motivation, collaborative learning, critical thinking, and problem solving. Some techniques that have been found to work in education include: identifying similarities and differences; summarizing and note taking; reinforcing effort and providing recognition; assigning homework and practice; utilizing graphic representations of concepts; cooperative learning; providing objectives and feedback; generating and testing hypotheses; providing cues and questions; and using advanced organizers. Technology-rich environments can also be effective for at-risk students, and can motivate students to stay in school and hopefully lessen the achievement gap.\n\nComputer Assisted Instruction (CAI), has been studied for its effects on lower achieving students. The effectiveness has been attributed to it being non-judgmental and motivational, while giving immediate and frequent feedback, individualizing learning to meet the students' needs, allowing for more student autonomy, and providing multi-sensory components (Barley \"et al.\", 2002, p. 97). A review of 17 different studies found that CAI positively affected scores in mathematics and literacy for all grade levels and significantly improving scores for students labeled \"at-risk\" (Barley \"et al.\", 2002, p. 105).\n\nTechnology can also effectively help teach basic literacy skills such as phonemic awareness, alphabetic principle, word recognition, alliteration, and comprehension. Today the use of specialized educational software applications can help support and enhance students' literacy skills. Presentation software such as PowerPoint can be used to enhance young children learning experience. The use of pictures, colors, sounds, animation, slide designs, or slide transitions can be easily implemented into a literacy lesson, and such software has been used, for example, to help students with autism learn and respond to activity schedules.\n\nFor young learners, the use of animation directs their attention to important features and prompts them to help ensure correct responses. Teachers can create literacy lessons with attention-grabbing elements such as moving graphic images. For example, a teacher might focus on the initial /d/ sound in the word \"dog\" as an instructional goal; a presentation slide for this would show a picture of a dog, and the teacher would select three possible letters to represent the initial sound in dog, such as /b/, /c/, and /d/. After showing the picture of the dog, and then displaying each of the three letter choices one-by-one, the teacher would ask the student what letter he or she thinks \"dog\" starts with. Other types of presentation software for literacy instruction, such as Photo Story, can allow teachers to add a variety of special effects, soundtracks, captions, and their own voice narration to the photo stories.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23911980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23911980", "title": "Show and tell (education)", "text": "Show and tell (education)\n\nShow and tell is the practice of showing something to an audience and telling them about it. In the United Kingdom, North America, New Zealand and Australia, it is a common classroom activity at early elementary school. It is used to teach young children the skills of public speaking. For example, a child will bring an item from home and will explain to the class why they chose that particular item, where they got it, and other relevant information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33767742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33767742", "title": "Silent protest", "text": "Silent protest\n\nSilent protest is an organized effort where the participants stay quiet to demonstrate disapproval. It is used as a form of civil disobedience and nonviolent resistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "29503688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29503688", "title": "Stefan Richarz", "text": "Stefan Richarz\n\nStefan Richarz (25 November 1874 – 13 July 1934) was a German priest, missionary and geologist.\n\nRicharz was born in Richrath near Cologne, Germany in 1874. He joined the Divine Word Missionaries in 1893 at Steyl, Netherlands. He studied theology in the school of the order Sankt Gabriel in Maria Enzersdorf near Mödling and received his ordination to the priesthood in 1901. Richarz studied geology, paleontology, petrology and chemistry at the University of Vienna and later mineralogy, philosophy and geology at the University of Munich. He received his phD for work with Ernst Weinschenk and Ernst Freiherr Stromer von Reichenbach in 1919 from the University of Munich on basalts from a quarry near Groschlattengrün.\n\nIn the following years he taught geology and astronomy at the school of the order Sankt Gabriel. In 1921 he changed to the school of the Divine Word Missionaries in Techny, Illinois where he lectured on geology, chemistry, mathematics and astronomy. In 1933 Richarz became dean of the science department of the Catholic University of Peking. In his first year, he went on a geological field trip to Mengyin County, South Shantung, China where he died 13. July, 1934.\n"}
{"id": "26376568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26376568", "title": "The Western Heritage", "text": "The Western Heritage\n\nThe Western Heritage is an American history textbook used for the study of Western civilization and European history. It was published in 1979, and has gone through ten editions. It was written by Donald Kagan, Steven Ozment, and Frank M. Turner. It soon became a \"standard survey text\" and is published in two volumes.\n\nConsidered conservative and old-fashioned when it was published, reviewers chided it for ignoring the Byzantines and Ottomans as well as giving short shrift to Russia and Poland. Others indicated lack of attention to the role of the Islamic states and ignorance of Islamic sources. It \"could be plausibly described as consistently following something close to a biblical-literalist line\" on the history of Ancient Israel.\n"}
{"id": "16856868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16856868", "title": "Toi Ohomai Institute of Technology", "text": "Toi Ohomai Institute of Technology\n\nToi Ohomai Institute of Technology is a New Zealand tertiary education institute with campuses in Rotorua, Tauranga, and other towns in the Bay of Plenty region. It was formed in May 2016 after the amalgamation of the Bay of Plenty Polytechnic and Waiariki Institute of Technology. Toi Ohomai is the largest tertiary provider in the Bay of Plenty, and the third largest institute of technology in New Zealand.\n\nThe \"Waiariki Community College\" was opened in Rotorua in April 1978. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, the college established additional campuses in Tokoroa, Whakatane, Taupo, Turangi and Kawerau. In 1998, the college was renamed \"Waiariki Institute of Technology\". The institute provided education in various areas, such forestry, Māori studies, business management, journalism, sport and music.\n\nIn 1982, the \"Bay of Plenty Community College\" was opened in Tauranga (later known as \"Bay of Plenty Polytechnic\"). The college initially ran various administration, engineering, and agriculture courses, later expanding to other areas such as hospitality, tourism and television. By 1991, the polytechnic had expanded to two main centres - the Windermere Campus in Poike, and the Bongard Centre in downtown Tauranga. In 2010, a total of 9,443 students were studying at Bay of Plenty Polytechnic.\n\nOn 1 May 2016, the two institutions merged to form Toi Ohomai Institute of Technology. The new name was gifted by local iwi, and means \"to aim high and achieve great heights; to be awakened by learning.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9013193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9013193", "title": "Trans World (video game)", "text": "Trans World (video game)\n\nTrans World is a business simulation computer game for the Commodore 64 published by Starbyte Software in 1990.\n\nThe player takes control of a new trucking company and competes against up to either three other human or computer players to make the most money. The game has two modes to choose from, a continuous play mode that plays indefinitely or a timed mode that runs a select number of turns. Players control all aspects of the company from purchasing new trucks to hiring mechanics to building new offices. Each round of the game controls one day of game time with each player taking a turn. Periodically, a random event will happen which can either help or hinder the player's company. Some events are offers to have goods delivered while others are sick days that skip the player's turn. The game ends when a player chooses to end it or when the selected number of rounds have been completed. The winner is the player with the most money at the game's end.\n"}
{"id": "15684659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15684659", "title": "Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo", "text": "Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo\n\nIt has its origins in a college founded in 1540 by Vasco de Quiroga in Pátzcuaro, the \"Colegio de San Nicolás Obispo\". This school gained the royal seal and patronage in 1543. In 1566, colonial religious authorities took over the school, and in 1574, academics began to be under the jurisdiction of the Jesuits. With the Episcopal seat changed to Valladolid (modern day Morelia), the school moved also in 1580, and was fused with the already existing Colegio de San Miguel Guayangareo. The school was reformed in the 17th century and its curriculum was redesigned in the 18th to include courses in philosophy, religious law, civil law and other subjects. At the end of the 18th century, the school became one of New Spain’s main centers of learning and academia, producing scholars such as Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla, José María Morelos, José Sixto Verduzco, José María Izazaga and Ignacio López Rayón, most of whom would have a role in the upcoming Mexican War of Independence. The school closed during the war but was reopened in 1847 with the name Primitivo y Nacional Colegio de San Nicolás de Hidalgo, focusing more on secular studies such as chemistry, physics, mathematics, and biology, based on the European university model. After the Mexican Revolution (1910-1917), the school was reorganized and renamed again to the Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo, which consolidated a number of other schools and disciplines into the new organization.\n\nThe University has several campuses, located at Morelia, Ciudad Hidalgo, and Apatzingan.\n\nThe University is accredited at the national level by the \"Asociación Nacional de Universidades e Instituciones de Educación Superior\"\n\nThe University is divided into several academic \"facultades\". Prospective students must have a high school degree, preferably from a college preparatory high school, and pass a university entrance exam to be admitted into the academic division of their choice. The University integrates various programs amongst its extracurricular offerings.\n\n"}
{"id": "41966024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41966024", "title": "Valuation of Nonmarket Housework", "text": "Valuation of Nonmarket Housework\n\nThe valuation of nonmarket housework comprises attempts to attach value to non-exchange domestic tasks. Housework may include a variety of activities, particularly those traditionally associated with housekeeping (or homemaking), along with child care and nurturing. These activities have recognizable economic and social significance, but are not included in standard economic measurements, such as the gross domestic product (GDP). While the symbolic or subjective benefits of housework are difficult to measure, various attempts have been made to attach value to economically productive household activity.\n\nTraditional means of tracking economic activity, such as the gross domestic product (GDP), do not take account of non-exchange, nonmarket household activity. Therefore, various adjustments to GDP calculations and novel measurements have been proposed, such as the GPI or GHP.\n\nIn 2012, the US Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) created an adjusted measure of GDP to account for productive household activity. By using detailed time use surveys for the period 1965-2010, the BEA found that incorporating “nonmarket household production” raises the GDP measure by 39% in 1965 and 26% in 2010. The surveys used seven categories of time use in American household production (housework, cooking, odd jobs, gardening, shopping, child care, and domestic travel) and the BEA assigned a low-end market wage to the hours spent on each activity.\n\nThe declining impact on the adjusted GDP reflects the steadily decreasing number of (nonmarket) hours households spent on home production. While men increased their weekly hours of home production in the time span from 14 to 17, this increase was more than offset by the decline in women's home production from 40 to 26 hours. The BEA explains this shift by increased women's participation in the work force as well as the steadily decreasing market wages of household workers (such as cleaners and nannies), raising the opportunity costs of self-participation and encouraging outsourcing.\n\nThe GPI is an alternative to GDP as a measure of economic growth that is generally designed to incorporate environmental and social factors that are not traditionally included. While much of the focus is typically placed on environmental costs, most GPI measurements explicitly include additions for the value of household work and parenting.\n\nOne of the most well-known examples is the GPI measure used across Atlantic Canada. In a 1999 report GPI Atlantic describes the household production infrastructure as akin to the access to raw materials, labour and markets required for the business sector. The Atlantic GPI employs time use variables and assigns explicit monetary values to unpaid work according to its replacement value in the market. According to their (1999) measurements, “unpaid work contributes $325 billion worth of services to the Canadian economy annually” and they argue that GPI analysis should be explicitly incorporated into policy considerations.\n\nGross household product is a specific estimation of the economic value added by the unpaid work and capital of households. It does not include many of the additional factors typically included in GPI determinations but focuses specifically on the “household economy.” Duncan Ironmonger defines a country's Gross Economic Product as comprising both the Gross Market Product (typically defined as GDP) and Gross Household Product. Using one of the same time use surveys as the BEA study referenced above (the American Time Use Survey), Ironmonger estimates the USA's 2011 GHP at 11.6 trillion dollars (as compared to a GDP of 13.3 trillion).\n\nThe OECD report \"Cooking, Caring and Volunteering: Unpaid Work Around the World\" defines unpaid work as, “the production of goods and services by household members that are not sold on the market” . It uses the “third-person” rule to distinguish between work and leisure, claiming that if a third person can be paid to do the activity while benefiting the household, it is work.\n\nWhile paid work outside of the home is readily measurable, housework is much more difficult to calculate. A number of models have been created to determine the value of work in the home, each with different conceptualizations of the process. There is currently no consensus on the appropriate approach.\n\nThese methods are generally divided into two main camps: the opportunity cost approach and the market value approach. The former views housework as equivalent to the amount one would make in the labour market. Housework is therefore evaluated at the wage rate that the member would otherwise have received. The market value approach bases the value of work done in the home on the cost of hiring someone to do the same job. Neither method is without criticism.\n\nThe opportunity cost method is flawed in that it is difficult to pinpoint a comparator group. Not all workers have their choice of job, nor the number of hours they work. Furthermore, wages vary depending on the location of the job and the gender of the employee, and the time it takes to get to and from work is not factored into the calculation. Age, level of education, and work experience are good predictors of what one would make in the labour market, but they are simply a subset of the aspects that can be used to calculate what a house worker would make. Therefore, while many studies regarding the valuation of work in the home have attempted to come up with a standard wage and multiply it by the number of hours worked, there is no agreement as to how this standard wage should be determined.\n\nThe market value approach comes with its own set of flaws. One type of approach within this category is the Direct Output Method, which is based on the value of production rather than the hours of labour performed in the household. It solves the problem of having to come up with a standard wage, but it is inherently difficult to obtain data on production output (e.g., number of pants folded) in the home. Furthermore, comparing the value of individual tasks performed to the average market price it would cost to get that same task completed may not be accurate, as multiple tasks can and are often done simultaneously in the home. To counteract this problem, one can construct a valuation based on the total wages of a housekeeper who performs a similar set of tasks. Yet, even then, the model does not take into account that men and women in the labour market often do housework, but hire housekeepers to do specific jobs that may require particular skills or expertise and demand a higher wage as a result.\n\nOverall, while these methods have attempted to create ways to determine the value of household labour, there is no accepted approach.\n\nDespite women's increased participation in the work force, several North American studies show that women still engage in significantly more housework activity than men.\n\nA recent study by Statistics Canada indicates that while men and women participate (nearly) equally in the labour force, women spend far more hours on unpaid housework, such as child care and domestic work (including house cleaning, cooking, yard work and home maintenance). For example, it was found that men spend an average of 24.4 hours per week on child care, while women spend 50.1 hours on the same tasks. In the domestic work category, men conduct 8.3 hours of unpaid work, compared with 13.8 hours per week for women.\n\nAccording to GPI Atlantic, “[t]ime use surveys reveal that Canadian women spend about twice as much time on total unpaid household work, including child and elder care, as men. They spend three times as long cooking and washing dishes, and nearly seven times as much time cleaning house and doing laundry”. This is despite a doubling of the female labour force from 1960-1999. The report argues that due to the invisibility of unpaid household production in traditional economic measures (like GDP), women are subject to wage and gender discrimination that has significant adverse effects on their economic well-being.\n\nBy contrast, the US Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis found a smaller discrepancy between genders on productive (but nonmarket) housework. According to their May 2012 report, women spend approximately 26 hours per week on home production, as opposed to 17 hours for men. Note, however, that the tasks included vary significantly between studies.\n"}
{"id": "24362833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24362833", "title": "Verville Fellowship", "text": "Verville Fellowship\n\nThe A. Verville Fellowship is an American senior scholarship established in the name of aviation pioneer Alfred V. Verville at the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum. The Verville Fellowship is a competitive nine- to twelve-month in-residence fellowship for researching the history of aviation. The fellowship includes a $50,000 stipend with limited additional funds for travel and miscellaneous expenses.\n\nCandidates for the fellowship should pursue programs of research and writing that support publication of works that are scholarly in tone and substance. These materials should appeal to an audience with broad interests. Outstanding manuscripts resulting from this program may be offered to the Smithsonian Institution Press for publication.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32010377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32010377", "title": "Watts Lectures", "text": "Watts Lectures\n\nThe F. B. Watts Memorial Lectures, commonly known as the Watts Lectures, is a series of public lectures held at the University of Toronto Scarborough several times annually. It was established in 1970 and named after Fred Watts, a former professor of geography at the University of Toronto and founding member of the University of Toronto Scarborough, initially known as Scarborough College, who deceased a year before the inception of the lecture series. The series was inaugurated by Lester B. Pearson, former Prime Minister of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1837265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1837265", "title": "Weekly Reader", "text": "Weekly Reader\n\nWeekly Reader was a weekly educational classroom magazine designed for children. It began in 1928 as My Weekly Reader. Editions covered curriculum themes in the younger grade levels and news-based, current events and curriculum themed-issues in older grade levels. The publishing company also created workbooks, literacy centers, and picture books for younger grades.\n\nIn 2012, \"Weekly Reader\" ceased operations as an independent publication and merged with its new owner, \"Scholastic News\", due primarily to market pressures to create digital editions as well as decreasing school budgets.\n\nFormerly \"My Weekly Reader\", the \"Weekly Reader\" was a weekly newspaper for elementary school children. It was first published by the American Education Press of Columbus, Ohio, which had been founded by Charles Palmer Davis in 1902 to publish \"Current Events\", a paper for secondary school children. The first issue of \"My Weekly Reader\" appeared on September 21, 1928.\n\nThe first editor was Martha Fulton, who had been hired that summer by Preston Davis, the major owner of the Press, and Harrison Sayre, who became managing editor. Sayre, also the editor of \"World News\", a paper for high school students, had been urged to start a paper for grade schools by teachers he had met in June 1928, while on a sales trip in Indiana. Martha Fulton, who was a friend of Sayre's wife, Mary, and a graduate of Wells College, enjoyed travel and adventure. During World War I, she had been an American Red Cross worker in France. She also had \"a remarkable rapport with children and had lively interests in every direction.\" The lead article was about the boyhoods of Herbert Hoover and Al Smith. There were two shorter articles: \"Wings for Safety\", about street crossing guards; and, \"Sky Medicine\", which was about the healthful qualities of the Sun. The most popular was a letter from \"Uncle Ben\" about a ride in a German glider on Cape Cod. Fulton wrote all these articles. Her sister Peg was the first artist, though soon replaced by her friend Mary Sherwood Wright. Beginning with the third issue, Eleanor Johnson, director of elementary schools in York, Pennsylvania, designed tests for the back page.\n\n\"My Weekly Reader\" was an instant success. By December, circulation was 99,000. In 1929, a second edition was started for younger children, and their combined circulation was 376,000. By 1931, there were four editions, with a combined circulation of 1,099,000.\n\nThe secrets of its early success were the timely news articles that had a children's angle, and the Uncle Ben letters describing new inventions and discoveries that excited children's imaginations. For example, the second issue's lead article, \"A Village Moves to the South Pole\", was about Admiral Byrd's 75-man expedition, their sled dogs, and Paul Siple, a Boy Scout who was with them. Uncle Ben wrote about planned \"Seadromes\", floating airports that airplanes could use to hop across the Atlantic. The third issue, published on October 5, 1928, began with \"How Mother Nature Prepares for Winter\". Uncle Ben described seeing his \"first radio television set\", even though the paper itself had yet to print even a photograph—illustrations for the \"Reader\" having only been drawings to date. On October 12, he wrote about Zeppelins, and the first \"Reader\" photographs appeared. They depicted \"Mr. and Mrs. Hoover\" and \"Mr. and Mrs. Smith and Grandchildren\".\n\nHarrison Sayre, who became president of the American Education Press while remaining managing editor of \"My Weekly Reader\", gave Martha Fulton the major credit for the newspaper's popularity. In his memoirs, Sayre quoted Gertrude Wolff, another editor who shared an office with Fulton: \"As I had had some editorial experience, she at times sought my advice on minor details, but the conception and execution of those first issues were hers alone. With her imagination, enthusiasm, intuitive understanding of a child's world, she sensed what would appeal to her young readers. Her very personal stamp on the new publication distinguished the succeeding issues during her years as editor.\"\n\nAs the new editions for upper and lower grades were added, Fulton remained the principal writer, even after her marriage in 1930 (to Clarence L. Sager, a New York City lawyer) and her moves to New York City and Old Greenwich, Connecticut. Sayre remembered that Fulton wrote for the papers for 12 years, adding that \"men of the composing room...testify that with her square, legible, longhand copy, she never missed a deadline.\"\n\nOther people who were important to the newspaper's early years were Laura E. Zirbes, a reading expert at the Ohio State University laboratory school, and Dr. Charles H. Judd of the University of Chicago, who introduced Sayre to Dr. William S. Gray, who in turn supplied Fulton with graded vocabulary lists. In 1930, Eleanor Johnson moved from York to Lakewood, Ohio, where she was assistant superintendent of schools until 1934, when she moved to Columbus and later became a managing editor.\n\nIn 1934, a fifth edition was added for the fifth and sixth grades. The price was twenty cents per semester. Circulation continued to rise, passing two million in 1942. Many people still fondly remember the papers they read as children and how they looked forward to Friday afternoons when their teachers handed out the latest issue.\n\nIn 1949, the American Education Press was sold to Wesleyan University and became American Education Publications, a division of the Wesleyan University Press. Editorial offices were moved to Middletown, Connecticut, but printing continued to be done in Columbus, Ohio. There were then six editions, one for each elementary grade, with a total circulation of 4,269,000. Total circulation of AEP papers was 5,605,000. In 1965, Wesleyan sold American Education Publications to the Xerox Corporation. By then, there was also a kindergarten edition. Eleanor Johnson was editor-in-chief of all editions. In later years, there were other owners, including the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and Field Publications.\n\nA pre-kindergarten edition was added in 1980. There were also curriculum-specific magazines for middle and high school students, including areas such as health, science, careers, reading, and writing.\n\nWeekly Reader Publishing, which began with the publication of the first \"Current Events\" on May 20, 1902, celebrated its 100th birthday in 2002.\n\nAt various times through its publishing history, the magazine was known as \"My Weekly Reader\" or \"Weekly Reader\".\n\nIn 2007, Weekly Reader Corporation became part of The Reader's Digest Association, based in Chappaqua, New York. \"Weekly Reader\"s main office was relocated from Stamford, Connecticut, to Chappaqua at the end of May 2007. Financial difficulties marred the publication during its time under Reader's Digest ownership; the magazine made efforts to launch an online presence for the magazine but were unable to secure the funds from the parent organization to do so, a factor in the magazine's decline.\n\nIn February 2012, \"Weekly Reader\" was acquired by Scholastic, which operated the competing \"Scholastic News\". Scholastic announced that it would be shutting down \"Weekly Reader\" publication and moving some of its staff to \"Scholastic News\". Following the completion of the merger, the merged magazines are:\n\nOne of the best-known events in the magazine's history is its quadrennial \"Weekly Reader Student Presidential Election Poll\". The poll is an educational exercise in which \"Weekly Reader\"-subscribing teachers conduct mock elections to find their students' preference for president. Teachers tabulate the results, then send them to \"Weekly Reader\". (Since the 2000, the surveys have been developed with, and tabulated by, the Zogby International polling organization.) This survey of students in grades K through 12 began in 1956, when readers chose Dwight Eisenhower over Adlai Stevenson.\n\nThe poll has now been conducted 14 times, most recently in 2008, and the students have voted for the person who became president 13 out of 14 times. The exception was in 1992, when George H.W. Bush garnered more votes than Bill Clinton. Third-party candidate Ross Perot, whose presence on the national ballot was important during the actual election, was not on the \"Weekly Reader\" ballot that year.\n\nIn 2005, Weekly Reader Publishing's literary magazine, \"Read\", launched \"Word\", a blog that features student writing and other literary news. It also offers interactive opportunities for reading and writing, including its \"What's Your Story?\" program, which features \"The Weekly Writer\", where students can help authors such as Stephen King and R. L. Stine finish an original story. \"Read\" magazine has pioneered \"electronic issues\" around literary themes, including \"Canterbury Tales\", William Shakespeare, and Edgar Allan Poe; these interactive websites incorporate video and film, music and sound effects, rap renditions and flash animation. In the 2009-2010 school year, the company extended these \"e-issues\" to four other \"Weekly Reader\" publications, including \"Weekly Reader\" editions 3 and Senior (4-6 grades), \"Current Events\" and \"Current Science\" magazines.\n\n"}
{"id": "873556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873556", "title": "William Carey (missionary)", "text": "William Carey (missionary)\n\nWilliam Carey (17 August 1761 – 9 June 1834) was a British Christian missionary, Particular Baptist minister, translator, social reformer and cultural anthropologist who founded the Serampore College and the Serampore University, the first degree-awarding university in India.\n\nHe went to Kolkata, West Bengal, India in 1793, but was forced to leave the British Indian territory by non-Baptist Christian missionaries. He joined the Baptist missionaries in the Danish colony of Frederiksnagar in India (Serampore). One of his first contributions was to start schools for impoverished children where they were taught reading, writing, accounting and Christianity. He opened the first theological university in Serampore (India) offering divinity degrees, and campaigned to end the practice of sati.\n\nCarey is known as the \"father of modern missions.\" His essay, \"An Enquiry into the Obligations of Christians to Use Means for the Conversion of the Heathens\", led to the founding of the Baptist Missionary Society. The Asiatic Society commended Carey for “his eminent services in opening the stores of Indian literature to the knowledge of Europe and for his extensive acquaintance with the science, the natural history and botany of this country and his useful contributions, in every branch.”\n\nHe translated the Hindu classic, the Ramayana, into English, and the Bible into Bengali, Oriya, Assamese, Marathi, Hindi and Sanskrit. William Carey has been called a reformer and illustrious Christian missionary.\n\nWilliam Carey, the oldest of 5 children, was born to Edmund and Elizabeth Carey, who were weavers by trade, in the hamlet of Pury End in the village of Paulerspury, Northamptonshire. William was raised in the Church of England; when he was six, his father was appointed the parish clerk and village schoolmaster. As a child he was naturally inquisitive and keenly interested in the natural sciences, particularly botany. He possessed a natural gift for language, teaching himself Latin.\n\nAt the age of 14, Carey's father apprenticed him to a cordwainer in the nearby village of Piddington, Northamptonshire. His master, Clarke Nichols, was a churchman like himself, but another apprentice, John Warr, was a Dissenter. Through his influence Carey would eventually leave the Church of England and join with other Dissenters to form a small Congregational church in nearby Hackleton. While apprenticed to Nichols, he also taught himself Greek with the help of a local villager who had a college education.\n\nWhen Nichols died in 1779, Carey went to work for the local shoemaker, Thomas Old; he married Old's sister-in-law Dorothy Plackett in 1781 in the Church of St. John the Baptist, Piddington. Unlike William, Dorothy was illiterate; her signature in the marriage register is a crude cross. William and Dorothy Carey had seven children, five sons and two daughters; both girls died in infancy, as well as son Peter, who died at the age of 5. Thomas Old himself died soon afterward, and Carey took over his business, during which time he taught himself Hebrew, Italian, Dutch, and French, often reading while working on his shoes.\n\nCarey acknowledged his humble origins and referred to himself as a cobbler (one who repairs shoes). However, the local community often knew him by the higher status of a shoemaker (or \"cordwainer\"). John Brown Myers entitled his biography of Carey \"William Carey the Shoemaker Who Became the Father and Founder of Modern Missions\".\n\nCarey became involved with a local association of Particular Baptists that had recently formed, where he became acquainted with men such as John Ryland, John Sutcliff, and Andrew Fuller, who would become his close friends in later years. They invited him to preach in their church in the nearby village of Earls Barton every other Sunday. On 5 October 1783, William Carey was baptised by Ryland and committed himself to the Baptist denomination.\n\nIn 1785, Carey was appointed the schoolmaster for the village of Moulton. He was also invited to serve as pastor to the local Baptist church. During this time he read Jonathan Edwards' \"Account of the Life of the Late Rev. David Brainerd\" and the journals of the explorer James Cook, and became deeply concerned with propagating the Christian Gospel throughout the world. John Eliot (c. 1604 – 21 May 1690), Puritan missionary in New England, along with David Brainerd (1718–47) and the Apostle Paul himself, became the \"canonized heroes\" and \"enkindlers\" of Carey.\n\nCarey's friend Andrew Fuller had previously written an influential pamphlet in 1781 titled \"The Gospel Worthy of All Acceptation,\" answering the hyper-Calvinist belief then prevalent in the Baptist churches, that all men were not responsible to believe the Gospel. At a ministers' meeting in 1787, Carey raised the question of whether it was the duty of all Christians to spread the Gospel throughout the world. John Collett Ryland is said to have retorted: \"Young man, sit down; when God pleases to convert the heathen, he will do it without your aid and mine.\" However Ryland's son, Dr. John Ryland, disputed that his father made this statement.\n\nIn 1789 Carey became the full-time pastor of Harvey Lane Baptist Church in Leicester. Three years later in 1792 he published his groundbreaking missionary manifesto, \"An Enquiry into the Obligations of Christians to use Means for the Conversion of the Heathens\". This short book consists of five parts. The first part is a theological justification for missionary activity, arguing that the command of Jesus to make disciples of all the world (Matthew 28:18–20) remains binding on Christians. \nThe second part outlines a history of missionary activity, beginning with the early Church and ending with David Brainerd and John Wesley.\nPart 3 comprises 26 pages of tables, listing area, population, and religion statistics for every country in the world. Carey had compiled these figures during his years as a schoolteacher. The fourth part answers objections to sending missionaries, such as difficulty learning the language or danger to life. Finally, the fifth part calls for the formation by the Baptist denomination of a missionary society and describes the practical means by which it could be supported. Carey's seminal pamphlet outlines his basis for missions: Christian obligation, wise use of available resources, and accurate information.\n\nCarey later preached a pro-missionary sermon (the so-called Deathless Sermon), using Isaiah 54:2–3 as his text, in which he repeatedly used the epigram which has become his most famous quotation: \nCarey finally overcame the resistance to missionary effort, and the \"Particular Baptist Society for the Propagation of the Gospel Amongst the Heathen\" (subsequently known as the \"Baptist Missionary Society\" and since 2000 as BMS World Mission) was founded in October 1792, including Carey, Andrew Fuller, John Ryland, and John Sutcliff as charter members. They then concerned themselves with practical matters such as raising funds, as well as deciding where they would direct their efforts. A medical missionary, Dr. John Thomas, had been in Calcutta and was currently in England raising funds; they agreed to support him and that Carey would accompany him to India.\n\nCarey, his eldest son Felix, Thomas and his wife and daughter sailed from London aboard an English ship in April 1793. Dorothy Carey had refused to leave England, being pregnant with their fourth son and having never been more than a few miles from home; but before they left they asked her again to come with them and she gave consent, with the knowledge that her sister Kitty would help her give birth. En route they were delayed at the Isle of Wight, at which time the captain of the ship received word that he endangered his command if he conveyed the missionaries to Calcutta, as their unauthorised journey violated the trade monopoly of the British East India Company. He decided to sail without them, and they were delayed until June when Thomas found a Danish captain willing to offer them passage. In the meantime, Carey's wife, who had by now given birth, agreed to accompany him provided her sister came as well. They landed at Calcutta in November.\n\nDuring the first year in Calcutta, the missionaries sought means to support themselves and a place to establish their mission. They also began to learn the Bengali language to communicate with others. A friend of Thomas owned two indigo factories and needed managers, so Carey moved with his family north to Midnapore. During the six years that Carey managed the indigo plant, he completed the first revision of his Bengali New Testament and began formulating the principles upon which his missionary community would be formed, including communal living, financial self-reliance, and the training of indigenous ministers. His son Peter died of dysentery, which, along with other causes of stress, resulted in Dorothy suffering a nervous breakdown from which she never recovered.\n\nMeanwhile, the missionary society had begun sending more missionaries to India. The first to arrive was John Fountain, who arrived in Midnapore and began teaching school. He was followed by William Ward, a printer; Joshua Marshman, a schoolteacher; David Brunsdon, one of Marshman's students; and William Grant, who died three weeks after his arrival. Because the East India Company was still hostile to missionaries, they settled in the Danish colony at Serampore and were joined there by Carey on 10 January 1800.\n\nOnce settled in Serampore, the mission bought a house large enough to accommodate all of their families and a school, which was to be their principal means of support. Ward set up a print shop with a secondhand press Carey had acquired and began the task of printing the Bible in Bengali. In August 1800 Fountain died of dysentery. By the end of that year, the mission had their first convert, a Hindu named Krishna Pal. They had also earned the goodwill of the local Danish government and Richard Wellesley, then Governor-General of India.\n\nThe conversion of Hindus to Christianity posed a new question for the missionaries concerning whether it was appropriate for converts to retain their caste. In 1802, the daughter of Krishna Pal, a Sudra, married a Brahmin. This wedding was a public demonstration that the church repudiated the caste distinctions.\n\nBrunsdon and Thomas died in 1801. The same year, the Governor-General founded Fort William, a college intended to educate civil servants. He offered Carey the position of professor of Bengali. Carey's colleagues at the college included pundits, whom he could consult to correct his Bengali testament. One of his colleagues was Madan Mohan Tarkalankar who taught him the Sanskrit language. He also wrote grammars of Bengali and Sanskrit, and began a translation of the Bible into Sanskrit. He also used his influence with the Governor-General to help put a stop to the practices of infant sacrifice and suttee, after consulting with the pundits and determining that they had no basis in the Hindu sacred writings (although the latter would not be abolished until 1829).\n\nDorothy Carey gave birth to Jim Carey. Then later she died in 1807. Due to her debilitating mental breakdown, she had long since ceased to be an able member of the mission, and her condition was an additional burden to it. John Marshman wrote how Carey worked away on his studies and translations, \"…while an insane wife, frequently wrought up to a state of most distressing excitement, was in the next room…\".\n\nLater that same year Carey made the following entry in his diary: \"Tuesday, Dec. 8, 1807. This evening Mrs. Carey died of the fever under which she has languished some time. Her death was a very easy one; but there was no appearance of returning reason, nor any thing that could cast a dawn of hope or light on her state.\"\n\nSeveral friends and colleagues had urged William to commit Dorothy to an asylum. But he recoiled at the thought of the treatment she might receive in such a place and took the responsibility to keep her within the family home, even though the children were exposed to her rages.\n\nIn 1808 Carey remarried. His new wife Charlotte Rhumohr, a Danish member of his church was, unlike Dorothy, Carey's intellectual equal. They were married for 13 years until her death.\n\nFrom the printing press at the mission came translations of the Bible in Bengali, Sanskrit, and other major languages and dialects. Many of these languages had never been printed before; William Ward had to create punches for the type by hand. Carey had begun translating literature and sacred writings from the original Sanskrit into English to make them accessible to his own countryman. On 11 March 1812, a fire in the print shop caused £10,000 in damages and lost work. Among the losses were many irreplaceable manuscripts, including much of Carey's translation of Sanskrit literature and a polyglot dictionary of Sanskrit and related languages, which would have been a seminal philological work had it been completed. However, the press itself and the punches were saved, and the mission was able to continue printing in six months. In Carey's lifetime, the mission printed and distributed the Bible in whole or part in 44 languages and dialects.\n\nAlso, in 1812, Adoniram Judson, an American Congregational missionary en route to India, studied the scriptures on baptism in preparation for a meeting with Carey. His studies led him to become a Baptist. Carey's urging of American Baptists to take over support for Judson's mission, led to the foundation in 1814 of the first American Baptist Mission board, the \"General Missionary Convention of the Baptist Denomination in the United States of America for Foreign Missions\", later commonly known as the Triennial Convention. Most American Baptist denominations of today are directly or indirectly descended from this convention.\nIn 1818, the mission founded Serampore College to train indigenous ministers for the growing church and to provide education in the arts and sciences to anyone regardless of caste or country. The King of Denmark granted a royal charter in 1827 that made the college a degree-granting institution, the first in Asia.\n\nIn 1820 Carey founded the Agri Horticultural Society of India at Alipore, Kolkata, supporting his enthusiasm for botany. When William Roxburgh went on leave, Carey was entrusted to maintain the Botanical Garden at Calcutta. The genus \"Careya\" was named after him.\n\nCarey's second wife, Charlotte, died in 1821, followed by his eldest son Felix. In 1823 he married a third time, to a widow named Grace Hughes.\n\nInternal dissent and resentment was growing within the Missionary Society as its numbers grew, the older missionaries died, and they were replaced by less experienced men. Some new missionaries arrived who were not willing to live in the communal fashion that had developed, one going so far as to demand \"a separate house, stable and servants.\" Unused to the rigorous work ethic of Carey, Ward, and Marshman, the new missionaries thought their seniors – particularly Marshman – to be somewhat dictatorial, assigning them work not to their liking.\n\nAndrew Fuller, who had been secretary of the Society in England, had died in 1815, and his successor, John Dyer, was a bureaucrat who attempted to reorganise the Society along business lines and manage every detail of the Serampore mission from England. Their differences proved to be irreconcilable, and Carey formally severed ties with the missionary society he had founded, leaving the mission property and moving onto the college grounds. He lived a quiet life until his death in 1834, revising his Bengali Bible, preaching, and teaching students. The couch on which he died, on 9 June 1834, is now housed at Regent's Park College, the Baptist hall of the University of Oxford.\n\nMuch of what is known about William Carey's missionary life in India is from missionary reports sent to Britain. Historians such as Comaroffs, Thorne, Van der Veer and Pennington note that the representation of India in these reports must be examined in their context and with care for its evangelical and colonial ideology. The reports by Carey were conditioned by his background, personal factors and his own religious beliefs. The polemic notes and observations of Carey, and his colleague William Ward, were in a community suffering from extreme poverty and epidemics, and they constructed a view of Indian culture and Hinduism in light of their missionary goals. These reports were by those who had declared their conviction in foreign missionary work, and the letters describe experiences of foreigners who were resented by both the natives as well the British colonial officials and competing Christian groups. Their accounts of culture and Hinduism were forged in impoverished Bengal (modern West Bengal and Bangladesh) that was physically, politically and spiritually difficult. Pennington summarizes the accounts reported by Carey and his colleagues as follows,\n\nWilliam Carey recommended that British people in India must learn and interpret Sanskrit in a manner \"compatible with colonial aims\". Carey wrote, \"To gain the ear of those who are thus deceived, it is necessary for them to believe that the speaker has a superior knowledge of the subject. In these circumstances, knowledge of Sanskrit is valuable.\" Carey lacked understanding and respect for Indian culture, writes Rao, describing Indian music as \"disgusting\" and bringing to mind practices dishonorable to God. Such prejudices affected the literature authored by Carey and colleagues.\n\nBiographies of Carey, such as those by F. D. Walker and J. B. Myers, only allude to Carey's distress caused by the mental illness and subsequent breakdown suffered by his wife, Dorothy, in the early years of their ministry in India. More recently, Beck's biography of Dorothy Carey paints a more detailed picture: William Carey uprooted his family from all that was familiar and sought to settle them in one of the most unlikely and difficult cultures in the world for an uneducated eighteenth century English peasant woman. Faced with enormous difficulties in adjusting to all of this change, she failed to make the adjustment emotionally and ultimately, mentally, and her husband seemed to be unable to help her through all of this because he just did not know what to do about it. Carey even wrote to his sisters in England on 5 October 1795, that \"I have been for some time past in danger of losing my life. Jealousy is the great evil that haunts her mind.\"\n\nDorothy's mental breakdown (\"at the same time William Carey was baptizing his first Indian convert and his son Felix, his wife was forcefully confined to her room, raving with madness\") led inevitably to other family problems. Joshua Marshman was appalled by the neglect with which Carey looked after his four boys when he first met them in 1800. Aged 4, 7, 12 and 15, they were unmannered, undisciplined, and even uneducated.\n\nBesides Iain Murray's study, \"The Puritan Hope\", less attention has been paid in Carey's numerous biographies to his postmillennial eschatology as expressed in his major missionary manifesto, notably not even in Bruce J. Nichols' article \"The Theology of William Carey.\" Carey was a Calvinist.” and a postmillennialist. Even the two dissertations which discuss his achievements (by Oussoren and Potts) ignore large areas of his theology. Neither mention his eschatological views, which played a major role in his missionary zeal. One exception, found in James Beck's biography of his first wife, mentions his personal optimism in the chapter on \"Attitudes Towards the Future,\" but not his optimistic perspective on world missions, which he derived from postmillennial theology.\n\nCarey devoted great efforts and time to the study not only of the common language of Bengali, but to many other Indian vernaculars including the ancient root language of Sanskrit. In collaboration with the College of Fort William, Carey undertook the translation of the Hindu classics into English, beginning with the three-volume epic poem the Ramayana. He then translated the Bible into Bengali, Oriya, Marathi, Hindi, Assamese, Sanskrit and parts of it into other dialects and languages. For 30 years Carey served in the college as the professor of Bengali, Sanskrit and Marathi.\n\nThe Serampore Mission Press that Carey founded is credited as the only press which “consistently thought it important enough that costly fonts of type be cast for the irregular and neglected languages of the Indian people.\" Carey and his team produced textbooks, dictionaries, classical literature and other publications which served primary school children, college-level students and the general public, including the first systematic Sanskrit grammar which served a model for later publications.\n\nIn the latter 1700s and early 1800s in India, only children of certain social strata received education, and even that was limited to basic accounting and Hindu religion. Only the Brahmins and writer castes could read, and then only men, women being completely unschooled. Carey started Sunday Schools in which children learned to read using the Bible as their textbook. In 1794 Carey opened, at his own cost, what is considered the first primary school in all of India. The public school system that Carey initiated expanded to include girls in an era when the education of the female was considered unthinkable. Carey’s work is considered to have provided the starting point of what blossomed in to the Christian Vernacular Education Society providing English medium education across India.\n\nCarey has at least nine schools named after him: William Carey Christian School (WCCS) in Sydney, NSW, William Carey International University in Pasadena, California, Carey Theological College in Vancouver, British Columbia, Carey Baptist College in Auckland, New Zealand, Carey Baptist Grammar School in Melbourne, Victoria, Carey College in Colombo, Sri Lanka, William Carey University, Hattiesburg, Mississippi and Carey Baptist College in Perth, Australia. The William Carey Academy of Chittagong, Bangladesh teaches both Bangladeshi and expatriate children, from kindergarten to grade 12, and the William Carey Memorial School, (A Co-ed English Medium), operates in Serampore, Hooghly.\n\nWilliam Carey has been referred to as the \"father of modern missions\", and as \"India's first cultural anthropologist.\"\n\nHis motto, which has inspired many across the centuries, was “Expect great things from God and attempt great things for God.”\n\nHis teaching, translations, writings and publications, his educational establishments and influence in social reform are said to have “marked the turning point of Indian culture from a downward to an upward trend.” \nThus Carey significantly contributed to the birth of Indian nationalism.\n\nCarey’s life inspired the founding of a number of educational institutions. He was instrumental in launching Serampore College near Calcutta, Today, Serampore is recognized as the standard for Christian theological accreditation throughout much of India.\n\nCarey’s passionate insistence on change resulted in the founding of the Baptist Missionary Society which today supports over 350 workers in 40 countries.\n\nWilliam Carey University, founded in 1892, has campuses in Hattiesburg and Biloxi, Mississippi\n\nInspired by Carey’s life, in 1976 missiologist Ralph Winter founded William Carey International University and the Venture Center. Its 17-acre campus in Pasadena, California includes a children’s school, Bible school, publishing department, library, spacious meeting hall and offices for a number of charitable Christian organizations.\n\nAn English Medium School named William Carey International School was established on 17 August 2008 at 70-D/1, Indira Road, Tejgaon, Dhaka 1215, Bangladesh.\n\nBy the time Carey died, he had spent 41 years in India without a furlough. His mission could count only some 700 converts in a nation of millions, but he had laid an impressive foundation of Bible translations, education, and social reform.\n\nCarey is also credited with setting up \"The Statesman\" and bringing the potato to the then undivided Bengal Province. \n\nSt James Church in Paulerspury, Northamptonshire, where Carey was christened and attended as a boy, has a William Carey display. Carey Baptist Church in Moulton, Northamptonshire, also has a display of artefacts related to William Carey, as well as the nearby cottage where he lived. Harvey Lane Baptist Church in Leicester, the last church in England where Carey served before he left for India, was destroyed by a fire in 1921. Carey's nearby cottage had served as a 'Memories of Carey' museum from 1915 until it was destroyed to make way for a new road system in 1968. The artefacts from the museum were given to Central Baptist Church in Charles Street, Leicester.\nThe Angus Library and Archive in Oxford holds the largest single collection of Carey letters as well as numerous artefacts such as his Bible and the sign from his cordwainer shop. There is a large collection of historical artifacts including letters, books, and other artifacts that belonged to William Carey at the Center for Study of the Life and Work of William Carey at Donnell Hall on the William Carey University Campus in Hattiesburg, MS.\n\nCarey is honoured with a feast day in the Calendar of Saints of some churches of the Anglican Communion on 19 October.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54310644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54310644", "title": "William E. Schevill", "text": "William E. Schevill\n\nWilliam Edward \"Bill\" Schevill (July 2, 1906 – July 25, 1994) was an American paleontologist famous for his part in dynamiting out the nodules of the most complete skeleton of the short-necked pliosaur \"Kronosaurus queenslandicus\" discovered in Hughenden in Queensland, Australia, in 1932. He later became known as an authority on the sounds of whales. Schevill had the title of scientist emeritus at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, where he had begun working in 1943, technically retiring in 1985.\n\nBorn July 2, 1906 in Brooklyn, New York, William E. Schevill grew up in Manhattan, New York, and St Louis, Missouri. Prior to going to college he spent nearly a year in Silver City, New Mexico where, working a ranch, he earned the rank of wrangler. Graduating from Harvard College in 1927, he saw the rejuvenation of the Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ) as initiated by the new director Thomas Barbour and, in 1929 Bill Schevill earned an A.M. with and was made the assistant of Percy Raymond, MCZ Professor and Curator of Invertebrate Palaeontology. Soon promoted to Associate Curator, Schevill traveled with Professor Raymond on \"significant fossil-collecting expeditions to the Burgess Shale, British Columbia (1930) and to Estonia, Norway and Sweden (1934).\" \n\nIn 1931 the (MCZ) sent an expedition to Australia for the dual purpose of procuring specimens - the museum being \"weak in Australian animals and...desires[ing] to complete its series\" - and to engage in \"the study of the animals of the region when alive.\" The Harvard Australian Expedition (1931–1932), as it became known, was a six-man venture led by Harvard Professor William Morton Wheeler, with the others being Dr. P. Jackson Darlington, Jr. (a renowned coleopterist), Dr. Glover Morrill Allen and his student Ralph Nicholson Ellis, medical officer Dr. Ira M. Dixon, and William E. Schevill. MCZ director Thomas Barbour said at the time \"We shall hope for specimens' of the kangaroo, the wombat, the Tasmanian devil and Tasmanian wolf,\" and the mission was a success with over a hundred mammals and thousands of insect specimens returning to the United States. Yet Mr. Schevill, the team's fossil enthusiast, remained in Australia after the others had departed and, in the winter of 1932, was told by the rancher R.W.H. Thomas of rocks with something \"odd\" poking out of them on his property near Hughenden. The rocks were limestone nodules containing the most complete skeleton of a \"Kronosaurus\" ever discovered. After dynamiting the nodules out of the ground (and into smaller pieces weighing approximately four tons) with the aid of a British migrant trained in the use of explosives, Scheville had the fossils shipped back to Harvard for examination and preparation. The skull—which matched the holotype jaw fragment of \"K. queenslandicus\"—was prepared right away, but time and budget constraints put off restoration of the nearly complete skeleton - most of the bones of which remained unexcavated within the limestone blocks - for 20 years.\n\nFollowing his return from the expedition, William E. Schevill was made a librarian of the MCZ from 1935 to 1943, \"and Barbour noted in 1937 that he had 'a decided taste for bibliography'.\" Unsurprisingly, Mr. Schevill became a founding member of the \"Society for the Bibliography of Natural History\" in 1936. During this period he earned a Master's degree in paleontology from Harvard, and met his future wife, Vassar College student Barbara Lawrence. They married December 23, 1938, and would have two children: a daughter name Lee, and a son named Edward.\n\nBecoming an Associate in Physical Oceanography at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) in Massachusetts in 1943, Bill Schevill's first work regarded US Naval auspices investigating echo-location of U-boats. Indeed, he had been rejected for military service because of chronic iritis, he joined a small group that worked with Allied submariners on observing the temperature of the ocean's upper levels so as to exploit it for stealth when dealing with enemy sonar. As he later wrote in 1962: \"During World War II many people on both sides listened to underwater sounds for military reasons. Not only the wanted sounds (those made by enemy ships), but a bewildering variety of others were heard. Most of these were ascribed to animals living in the sea, usually as “fish noises” ... Some were ascribed to whales, in part correctly, but without identification of the kind of whale; most military listeners were not biologists, and in any case the traditional naval sonar room is woefully deficient in windows.\" Such maritime work inspired him and, leaving Palaeontology behind, led William E. Schevill become \"one of the world's most innovative whale biologists and an undisputed pioneer in the field of whale sounds,\" performing the first recordings of underwater sounds and extrapolating their purpose from these recordings. In accordance with his groundbreaking work, Dr. Schevill would publish over fifty papers on whale phonation and thus provide the framework for “literally hundreds of scientific studies produced by other workers from the 1960s until the present day.\" However, it is worthy of note that his wife Barbara Lawrence, by now the MCZ's Curator of Mammals, often co-wrote these documents with him. However, in spite of his change in field, it is reported that Bill Schevill split his time equally between the MCZ and the WHOI - his work with the latter likely relating to Cetology as opposed to fossil studies.\n\nWilliam E. Schevill's study of whales also at one point harked back to the U.S. Naval operations that first set him down this path. As noted upon his death by the Society for the Bibliography of Natural History, \"Bill helped defuse a tense moment between the USA and Soviet Union during the Cold War. The US military suspected that low frequency blips were being used by the Soviets to locate American submarines, whereas Bill showed these were produced by fin whales (Balaenoptera physalus) hunting prey.\"\n\nWilliam E. Schevill technically retired in 1985, though he continued to work unofficially even after, and died of pneumonia Monday July 25, 1994 at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass, where he lived; survived by his wife, daughter, and son.\n\n"}
{"id": "36548030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36548030", "title": "Zetech University", "text": "Zetech University\n\nZetech University is a private university located in Kenya. Zetech was founded by Engineer Ken Mbiuki in 1999 and is registered by the Ministry of Higher Education Science and Technology.\n\nIt collaborated with the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology to offer various programmes from the institution and now offers its own university programmes.\n\nThe University comprises: School of Business and Economics, School of ICT and Engineering, School of Hospitality and Tourism, School of Education and Social Arts and the Department of Media Arts and Design.\n\nThe current chancellor is Professor Susan Alfano, and the Vice Chancellor is Prof. Njenga Munene.\n\nAlthough Zetech University was officially founded in 1999, Ken Mbiuki had been offering basic IT training in his dorm room since 1997, where he operated under the name \"Zenith Technologies\" while pursuing his undergraduate studies at the University of Nairobi. At the time, computing technology was fairly new in Kenya.\n\nIn 1999 Ken Mbiuki leased office space in Summit House and registered an academic institution under the name Zetech College – a fusion of the words 'Zenith' and 'Technology'. The college initially offered purely I.T.-based courses and has slowly grown over the years. It is now accredited as Zetech University by the Commission for University Education.\n\nZetech University's main campus is located off Thika road in Ruiru, about 20 km from capital city of Nairobi:\n\nThe structured state-of-the-art University Complex in Ruiru, the Thika Road Campus, marks the transition of the college into a fully fledged chartered university that will offer degree courses and award students a Zetech University Certificate upon the successful completion of their curriculum. Officially launched by the President of Kenya H.E President Uhuru Kenyatta, the complex is a home away from home for students.\n\nThe 750-seater capacity library in the newly proposed Zetech University facility serves as Zetech's main Library, superior facilities including an expansive 3 floor library fitted with an all round digital experience. The library can hold up to a total of 750 students at one go and is expected to provide the ultimate room for a thorough academic research. The facility comprises approximately 2,500 titles and incorporates computer-based learning support facilities to provide access to up-to-date research information. Also the library features wi-fi Internet access as well as an automated Integrated Library System. The same library collections are also housed in its Pioneer Campus Library.\n\nZetech University offers a wide range of certificate, diploma, and degree programmes to government sponsored and privately funded students. Committed to providing quality education to provide quality education to thousands of students from Kenya and beyond, the ISO 9001:2015 certified institution has invested in a skilled and experienced faculty team to ensure students enjoy the Zetech Experience. Additionally, the institution has ultra modern facilities to creating an amicable and rewarding learning experience for all students.\n\nThe University also provides digital learning through the Zetech Digital School to allow students from other countries to access quality higher education at their convenience.\n\nThe Zetech University student body is governed by the Zetech University Students' Association (ZUSA), which provides student representation within and outside the institution.\n\nThe school offers football and basketball teams. Other sporting activities that students heavily engage in include Rugby, Netball and Chess.\nThe football team is the reigning Universities and Colleges Football Leagues champions and the trophy in 2011 and 2012 seasons. The university Basketball team is the reigning DSTV Kenya Basketball Federation Division One champions and play in the national men’s Kenya Basketball Federation League.\n\n\nThe university offers a Health and Counseling Centre which operates as a single service provider for professional medical and counseling services to students. The facility is open from 8am to 6pm and can handle emergencies such as chest pain, seizures, and injuries.\n\nThe Universities mandate is primarily the pursuit of secular education. The institution, however, generally subscribes to values of the Christian Faith. Students from diverse religious backgrounds are allowed to practice their faith without hindrance, so long as these practices do not make demands on or interfere with the smooth running of university operations, and university academic programs in particular. All students are expected to accord due respect and exhibit tolerance towards members of the different faiths.\n"}
