{"id": "50044232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50044232", "title": "2016 PDP National Convention", "text": "2016 PDP National Convention\n\nThe 2016 PDP National Convention was held on Saturday, 21 May 2016 at the Sharks Stadium in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. It marked the first time the National Convention took place outside Abuja, Nigeria's federal capital. The convention drew delegates from the 36 states, as well as the 12 governors of the PDP, national and state assembly members, former governors, Board of Trustees members and former National Working Committee members. Among those who graced the convention were the Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, Senator Godswill Akpabio and former Senate President David Mark. \n\nAlthough well attended, incumbent acting chair of the National Working Committee Ali Modu Sheriff withdrew from the event earlier that day. Sheriff had announced a postponement of the convention over legal issues. This however didn't go down\nwell with some members who declared that the convention must go on as scheduled. After Sheriff's departure, the convention simply continued. Ahmed Makarfi, a former governor, was appointed alongside 6 others to replace Sheriff and the NWC in a caretaker capacity. They will run the affairs of the party until a National Working Committee is elected within 90 days.\n\nThe Convention Committee was set up on 5 April 2016 to help plan, organize and coordinate the event. Members of the executive include Ezenwo Nyesom Wike (Chairman), Darius Ishaku (Deputy Chairman) and Dave Umahi (Secretary).\nThe committee's inaugural meeting was held at Government House, Port Harcourt on 9 April 2016. The meeting had 17 of its prominent members in attendance.\n\nThe setting up of a Caretaker Committee to manage the affairs of the party prior to the election of a new National Working Committee was approved by delegates present at the convention venue. \n\nChairperson of the Committee is former governor, Ahmed Makarfi while the Secretary is Ben Obi. Other members of the Committee include: Odion Ugbesia (Financial, Treasury and Audit), Prince Dayo Adeyeye (Publicity), Abdul Ningi (Organization and Mobilization), Aisha Aliyu (Women and Youth) and Barrister Kabiru Usman (Legal).\n"}
{"id": "51105517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51105517", "title": "2016–present purges in Turkey", "text": "2016–present purges in Turkey\n\nThe 2016–present purges in Turkey are an ongoing purges by the government of Turkey enabled by a state of emergency in reaction to the 15 July failed \"coup d'état\". After the immediate arrest of military personnel accused of making the coup attempt, arrests were expanded to include further elements of the Turkish military service, as well as various civil servants and private businesses. These later actions, reflecting a power struggle between secularist and Islamist political elites in Turkey, which began to be known as a purge, affected people who were not active in nor aware of the coup as it happened, but who were alleged to be connected with the Gülen movement, a group which the government blames for the coup. Even the mere possession of books authored by Gülen may be considered evidence of such a connection and cause for arrest.\n\nTens of thousands of public servants and soldiers were purged in the first week following the coup. For example, on 16 July 2016, just one day after the coup was foiled, 2,745 judges were dismissed and detained. This was followed by the dismissal, detention or suspension of over 100,000 officials, a figure that had increased to over 110,000 by early November 2016, over 125,000 after the 22 November decree, reaching at least 135,000 with the 7 January's decrees, about 160,000 after 29 April 2017's suspensions and arrests decree and 180,000 after July 8th 2018's massive dismissal decree. This make up about 10% of Turkey's 2 million public employees.\n\nIn the business sector, the government forcefully seized assets of over 1000 companies worth between $11 and $50-60 billions, on the charge of being related to Gülen and the coup. \nBy late 2017 over a thousand companies and their assets owned by individuals allegedly affiliated with the movement had been seized and generally such things as goods produced by such companies had become boycotted by the public.\n\nThe purges also extend to the media with television channels, newspapers and other media outlets that were seen as critical of the government being shut down, critical journalists being arrested and Wikipedia being blocked since April 2017. Since early September 2016, the post-coup emergency state allowed a turn against Kurdish groups and Kurdish culture, most notably with the dismissal of about 12,000 Kurdish teachers and 24 elected mayors and arrest of the co-chairs of the Peoples' Democratic Party for alleged links with the PKK. In August 2018, the Turkish Parliament approved a new “anti-terror” law to replace the state of emergency.\n\nIn January 2014, during a major corruption inquiry in Turkey, 96 judges and prosecutors, including the chief prosecutor of İzmir, Huseyin Bas, were transferred to new locations, ending the investigations. Bas was transferred to Samsun. Altogether 120 judges and prosecutors were reassigned. At the time, \"The Daily Telegraph\" described the events as \"the biggest purge of the judiciary in [Turkey's] history\". From 2014 to mid-2016, repeated purges of civilian, military and judicial officials took place in Turkey, mainly aimed at followers of Fethullah Gülen, a former colleague of the Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.\n\nDuring the first post-coup speech Erdoğan could address to the nation upon landing at Atatürk airport, he said, \"This uprising is a gift from God to us because this will be a reason to cleanse our army\".\n\nAn extensive purge of the Turkish civil service began with Erdoğan warning his opponents that \"they will pay a heavy price for this.\" \"The New York Times\" described the purges as a \"counter-coup\" and expected Erdoğan to \"become more vengeful and obsessed with control than ever, exploiting the crisis not just to punish mutinous soldiers but to further quash whatever dissent is left in Turkey\".\n\nOn 18 July, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry urged Turkish authorities to halt the increasing crackdown on its citizens, indicating that the crackdown was meant to \"suppress dissent\". French Foreign Minister and former Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault voiced concern, warning against a \"political system which turns away from democracy\".\n\nThe United Nations have been accused of being unresponsive against the purges, while at the same time also failing to condemn the coup and resulting violence, due to disagreement between Egypt and other Security Council members on the wording of a resolution in that direction.\n\nPrime Minister Binali Yıldırım announced on 16 July 2016 that 2,839 soldiers of various ranks had been arrested. Among those arrested were at least 34 generals or admirals. A number of students of the Kuleli Military High School, enough to fill five buses, were also arrested. By 18 July 2016, a total of 103 generals and admirals have been detained by Turkish authorities in connection with the coup.\n\nYasemin Özata Çetinkaya, the governor of Sinop Province, was removed from her duty and her husband, a colonel in the Turkish army, arrested. Turkish military conducted a raid on the Turkish Air Force Academy in Istanbul as well.\n\nMajor General Cahit Bakir, who commanded Turkish forces under NATO in Afghanistan, and Brigadier General Sener Topuc, responsible for education and aid in Afghanistan, have been detained by authorities in Dubai in connection with Turkey's failed coup.\n\nGeneral Bekir Ercan Van, the commander of Incirlik Air Base, which the U.S. uses to carry out airstrikes against ISIL, was arrested by Turkish authorities for his alleged role in plotting the failed military coup. He sought asylum from the United States but was denied.\n\nOn 16 July 2016, the Supreme Board of Judges and Prosecutors of Turkey (HSYK) removed 2,745 Turkish judges from duty and ordered their detention. Of these judges, 541 were in administrative judiciary and 2,204 were in criminal judiciary. This amounted to approximately 36% of all judges in Turkey at the time. Two judges from the Constitutional Court of Turkey, Alparslan Altan and , were detained by Turkish authorities for supposed ties with the Gülen movement, while 5 members of the HSYK had their membership revoked and 10 members of the Turkish Council of State were arrested on charges of being members of the parallel state. Furthermore, arrest warrants were issued for 48 members of the Council of State and 140 members of the Court of Cassation.\n\nBy 18 July 2016, the Turkish government had suspended 8,777 government officials across the country for alleged links to the coup perpetrators. Among those suspended include 7,899 police officers, 614 gendarmerie officers, 47 district governors and 30 regional governors. , 755 judges and prosecutors had been arrested in relation to the coup attempt.\n\nHüseyin Avni Mutlu, ex-governor of İstanbul, was dismissed on 19 July 2016. Deputy Mayor of Istanbul's Şişli District, Cemil Candaş, was shot in the head in his office by an unidentified assailant on 18 July 2016. Meanwhile, Turkish parliament was evacuated due to unidentified security concerns.\n\nStarting in September, the purges pushed upon the largely Kurdish HDP political formation. Over 1,478 politically active kurds and 78 democratically-elected mayors have been jailed. HDP coheads Selahattin Demirtas and Figen Yüksekdağ being jailed, with prosecutor seeking up to 142 and 83 years in jail for each, respectively. The main charge is the allegation of \"managing a terrorist organization [(the HDP)]\".\n\nFollowing a series of arrests and purges throughout the government, Prime Minister Yıldırım announced on 18 July 2016 that annual leave for all civil servants was suspended, and all those on leave were to return to work. Over three million civil servants were affected. In addition, public sector employees were banned from leaving the country.\n\nBy the evening of 19 July 2016, the number of public sector employees suspended had reached 49,321. In the Ministry of Finance, more than 1500 employees were suspended. In the Prime Ministry, 257 employees, including six advisers, were suspended. The Presidency of Religious Affairs suspended 492 employees, among them three provincial muftis. The numbers of suspended personnel in the National Intelligence Organization and Ministry of Family and Social Policy were 100 and 393 respectively.\n\nOn 20 July 2016, the Youth and Sports Minister Akif Çağatay Kılıç announced that 245 personnel within his ministry had been laid off. The Energy Ministry reports 300 employees were let go, and the Customs Ministry indicated 184 employees were dismissed.\n\nBy far the greatest purge was in the Ministry of National Education, where 15,200 teachers were suspended. The licenses of 21,000 teachers in the private sector were also cancelled. The Council of Higher Education asked all deans of state and private universities, numbering 1577, to resign. 626 educational institutions, mostly private, were shut down. For example, in Burdur, one school, one cram school and four student hostels were shut down on 20 July. In addition, a travel ban was placed on academics, preventing them from leaving the country.\n\nOn 23 July 2016, Erdoğan shut down 1,043 private schools, 1,229 charities and foundations, 19 trade unions, 15 universities and 35 medical institutions in his first emergency decree under the newly adopted emergency legislation.\n\nThe licenses of 24 radio and television channels and the press cards of 34 journalists accused of being linked to Gülen were revoked. Two people were arrested for praising the coup attempt and insulting Erdoğan on social media. On 25 July, Nazlı Ilıcak was taken into custody.\n\nOn 27 July 2016, Erdoğan shut down 16 television channels, 23 radio stations, 45 daily newspapers, 15 magazines and 29 publishing houses in another emergency decree under the newly adopted emergency legislation. The closed outlets notably include Gülen-affiliated Cihan News Agency, Samanyolu TV and the previously leading newspaper \"Zaman\" (including its English-language version \"Today's Zaman\"), but also the opposition daily newspaper \"Taraf\" which was known to be in close relations with the Gulen Movement.\n\nIn late October 2015, Turkish authorities shut down 15 media outlets, including one of the world’s only women’s news agencies, and detained the editor-in-chief of the prominent secularist Turkish newspaper Cumhuriyet, \"on accusations that they committed crimes on behalf of Kurdish militants and a network linked to the US-based cleric Fethullah Gülen\".\n\nTurkey has imprisoned more than 160 journalists, making it the world's biggest jailer of journalists. In May 2018, at a press conference with British PM Theresa May, Turkish President Erdoğan called Turkey's jailed journalists \"terrorists\".\n\nGovernment authorities had revoked almost 11,000 passports by 22 July; by 30 July, more than 50,000 passports were cancelled.\n\nIn August 2016 Erdoğan gave the United States an ultimatum, demanding the extradition of Fethullah Gülen, the cleric believed to be behind the failed 15 July coup attempt. Turkey demanded that Greece extradite eight Turkish soldiers who had fled there after the coup. On 11 August 2016, Bulgaria extradited Abdullah Büyük, a Turkish businessman being linked with the Gülen movement.\n\nThe bulk of the purges happened in the 10 days following the coup. The government releasing data documenting the issue :\nOn 17 August 2016, the government dismissed 2,300 more officers from the police force, 136 military officers and 196 employees from the information technology authority.\n\nOn 18 August 2016, arrest warrants were issued for 187 suspects, including CEOs of leading companies in Turkey, with prosecutors also ordering the seizure of their assets.\n\nOn 2 September 2016, Turkey announced a purge of about 11,500 teachers with alleged links to PKK. The move was denounced by Kurdish and Turkish opposition parties for lacking due process and evidences. An anonymous former Turkish diplomat said the move sharply weakened the pacifist wing of Kurdish voices, pushing the Kurdish movement toward more radical means.\n\nOn 12 September 2016, Turkey removed two dozen elected mayors, members of the opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), for alleged links to Kurdish militants.\nOn 4 October 2016, Turkish authorities suspend nearly 12,800 more police officers from duty over their suspected links with U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen.\n\nOn 29 October 2016, by decree, Turkey dismissed 10,131 more civil servants, while about 15 more media outlets were closed for alleged ties to terrorist organizations and cleric Fethullah Gülen.\n\nIn early November 2016, security forces began mass arrests of opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs, including co-leaders Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. Internet and social web services were blocked across southeastern Turkey. Out of 59 HDP's MPs, 15 were researched, 12 MPs were detained, 2 MPs were travelling abroad, and one not located.\n\nOn 22 November 2016, a decree announced 15,726 dismissals (security forces: 7,600, ministry of interior: 2,700, education: 1,200). \nPeople were affected for being “related, belonging to or in contact with terror organizations and structures that are considered by the National Security Council as acting against national security.” Passports of these affected people were canceled.\nWith this decree 550 associations, 9 medias, and 19 private medical structures have been closed. \nThe financial assets and properties of those organizations were to be seized by the Turkish Treasury.\n\nOn 12 December 2016, in reaction to prior Istanbul double bombing and Kurdistan Freedom Falcons (TAK) claims, 118 HDP officials and supporters were arrested.\n\nOn 21 December 2016, Turkey suspended another 1,980 teachers and school employees for alleged connections to the coup attempt.\n\nOn 25 December 2016, Turkey probes around 10,000 social media users for allegedly insulting government officials or supporting \"terror-related activity.\"\n\nOn 7 January 2017, and via three decrees, 8,390 more civil servants were dismissed (2,687 police officers, 1,699 civil servants from the justice ministry, 838 health officials, and hundreds others from other ministries, 631 academics, 8 members of the Council of State).\n\nIn early February 2017, the Turkish government dismissed more than 4,400 public servants from their jobs, including over 300 university teachers.\n\nOn 14 February 2017, the Turkish government arrested 834 people with alleged links with PKK. The mass arrest has been linked to the constitutional referendum, to which most Kurdish factions are opposed.\n\nAfter the April 16 referendum, 38 activists denouncing irregularities were detained.\n\nOn 26 April 2017, 1009 police officers were accused of being a secret Gulenist network within the Turkish police force, and were detained. 9,100 policemen have been suspended\n\nOn 29 April 2017, Turkey blocked Wikipedia and dismissed 3,974 more civil servants. The NYT qualified the move as \"an expand[ing] crackdown on dissent and free expression\".\n\nOn 5 June, the Turkish interior ministry announces that 130 people, living outside the country and suspected of militant links, will lose their citizenship unless they return to Turkey within three months and meet government standards. Named suspects include U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gülen, and Peoples' Democratic Party leaders Faysal Sariyildiz, Tuğba Hezer, and Özdal Üçer. (Reuters)\n\n15 June 2017, UN Mechanism for International Criminal Tribunals judge Aydin Sedaf Akay was sentenced to 71⁄2 years on charges of \"membership in [to the Gulen movement, itself] a terrorist organization\", despite Mr. Akay having diplomatic immunity due to his position at the UN MICT.\n\nOn 15 July, 7,400 more police were dismissed.\n\nOn December 24, 2017, a decree announce the dismissal of 2,700 public officers.\n\nOn July 8, 2018, right before Erdogan new presidency with enlarged executive powers and the promised end of the state of emergency, 18,632 public officiers were dismissed by decree. Among them, 9,000+ are police officers, 6,000+ are members of the Turkish military, +1000 are from judiciary, about 650 are teachers and about 200 academics. Three newspapers, one TV channel and 12 associations were also shut down.\n\nOn July 25, 2018, Turkey passed new anti-terrorism bill to replace emergency rule. According to the Human Rights Watch, the new law \"will allow authorities under the presidency, for the next three years, to dismiss judges and all other public officials arbitrarily. It also would allow the authorities to restrict movement within Turkey, ban public assemblies, and allow police to hold some suspects for up to 12 days without charge and repeatedly detain them in the same investigation.\" CHP parliamentary group leader Özgür Özel said that \"With this bill, with the measures in this text, the state of emergency will not be extended for three months but for three years. They make it look like they are lifting the emergency, but in fact they are continuing it.\"\n\nOn August 14, 2018, Turkish police arrested another German citizen on terrorism-related charges. German authorities said nine German nationals are currently in detention in Turkey for \"political reasons.\"\n\nHuman rights in Turkey are governed by international law treaties, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights that Turkey signed in 2000, that take precedence over Turkish legislation according to Article 90 of the 1982 Constitution. After protesters chanted for reintroduction of the death penalty, abolished by Turkey in 2004, Erdoğan stated that this was a possibility that would be discussed in parliament, and that in a democracy, the will of the people must be respected. On 21 July, the Turkish government announced that it would suspend the European Convention on Human Rights during a temporary state of emergency.\n\nOn 24 July 2016, Amnesty International called for the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture to make an emergency visit to Turkey to observe the conditions in which the detainees were held.\n\nJohannes Hahn, the European Commissioner dealing with Turkey's bid to become a member state of the European Union (EU), said that it appears Turkey's government had prepared arrest lists of political opponents before the coup attempt and had been waiting for the right time to act. The usage of social medias monitoring is suspected.\n\nAnonymous-and-paid denunciations are officially declared as the main source for identifying suspects. Most of the over 140 thousands people affected by the purges were affected following denunciations by coworkers and other citizens. The system have been legalized via a 31 August 2015's decree by the Ministry of interior. The rewarded anonymous denunciation's grid is public and online, divided in 5 category according to the threat, and pointing to major suspects, mainly Kurds, then Gulenist, then Islamists (ISIS).\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, during the July 2016 purges, detainees were denied food for up to three days and water for up to two days, were denied medical treatment, were reportedly raped with police truncheons or fingers, and were subjected to other forms of torture. Amnesty said that three hundred male soldiers held in the Ankara police headquarters were beaten during their detention, with injuries including bruises, cuts and broken bones. Forty soldiers were unable to walk because of their injuries, and two were unable to stand. Amnesty also said that detainees' shirts were covered in blood during their interrogations by prosecutors and that detainees during the purges were mostly prevented from contacting their families and lawyers.\n\nGiven overcrowded conditions, the Turkish government published a decree on 16 August announcing that 38,000 inmates whose criminal offense pre-dated 1 July were now eligible for sentence reduction. Inmates with two years or less to serve are eligible, while inmates who have served half of their sentence can ask for parole. The decree applies to crimes committed before 1 July 2016, excluding convictions for murder, domestic violence, sexual abuse, terrorism or crimes against the state.\n\nTurkish human rights lawyer Orhan Kemal Cengiz was detained for three days in July 2016. He was \"provisionally released\" and remains subject to a travel ban. Serdar Kuni, a doctor from Cizre, who assisted the respected Human Rights Foundation in documenting violations in the town, and arrested on poorly defined charges of \"being a member of a terrorist organization\" for treating injured locals.\n\nOn 6 June 2017, Taner Kılıç, the Chair of Amnesty International Turkey, and another 22 lawyers were detained in İzmir by the Turkish police on the suspicion of having links with the Fethullah Gülen movement and later charged with \"membership of a terrorist organisation\". The detention and prosecution was condemned by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch who asked for his immediate release. Hugh Williamson, Europe and Central Asia director at Human Rights Watch, stated that \"detaining Kılıç on suspicion of terrorist offenses looks like a tactic aimed at discrediting his legitimate human rights work.\"\n\nAbout 1,000 Gülen movement schools exist worldwide, with 300 of them in Turkey. Turkey requested closure of affiliated schools in 50 countries.\n\nThe purges were criticized by Western governments and human rights groups. Human Rights Watch warned the Turkish government against \"[using] the coup attempt to justify a witch-hunt against those it regards as opponents\". Andrew Gardner, Amnesty International's researcher for Turkey, said: \"We are witnessing a crackdown of exceptional proportions in Turkey at the moment. While it is understandable, and legitimate, that the government wishes to investigate and punish those responsible for this bloody coup attempt, they must abide by the rule of law and respect freedom of expression.\"\n\nConversely, the purges were praised by Judicial Commission of Indonesia chairman Aidul Fitriciada Azhari. Azhari pointed to the purges as a positive example of external oversight of a judicial system and the exercise of executive power by a judicial commission, referring to the Supreme Board of Judges and Prosecutors.\n\nJohannes Hahn, the European Commissioner dealing with Turkey's bid to become a member state of the European Union (EU), said that it appeared Turkey's government had prepared arrest lists of political opponents before the coup attempt and had been waiting for the right time to act. EU High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini condemned the purges, saying: \"What we're seeing especially in the fields of universities, media, the judiciary, is unacceptable.\"\n\nHorst Seehofer, the minister-president of Bavaria, urged the EU to suspend Turkey's accession negotiations: \"If one sees how Turkey is dismantling the rule of law... then these (EU membership) negotiations must be stopped immediately. No democratic constitutional state acts like this.\"\n\nOn 22 November 2016 the European Parliament voted 497 to 37 in favour of a non binding freeze on membership talks with Turkey in response to \"disproportionate repressive measures taken in Turkey since the failed military coup attempt.\"\n\nThe Czech University Council compared the purges of educational institutions in Turkey to events which took place under Communist dictatorship in former Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe European University Association (EUA) joined by the European University Foundations (EUF) “strongly and unconditionally” condemned the forced resignation of hundreds of deans from higher education institutions in Turkey in the wake of the failed coup attempt in the country, and called on all European governments, universities and scholars to speak out against these developments and to support democracy in Turkey, including institutional autonomy and academic freedom for scholars and students.\n\nBelgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders said Turkish authorities' reaction to the failed coup needed to be \"proportionate,\" and that he was alarmed by the arrests of judges and calls for reinstatement of the death penalty against coup participants.\n\nFrench Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault voiced concern, warning against a \"political system which turns away from democracy\" in response to the purges.\n\nU.S. President Barack Obama said he was concerned by pictures showing the rough treatment of some of the arrested coup plotters, some of whom appeared stripped to their underwear and handcuffed behind their backs. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry urged Turkish authorities to halt the crackdown on its citizens, expressing concern that the aim of the crackdown was to \"suppress dissent.\"\n\nThe commander of U.S. Central Command, General Joseph Votel, said that several of the U.S. military’s closest partners in the Turkish military have been jailed. In response, Erdoğan accused Votel of being on the side of coup plotters. On 29 July, Votel said in a statement: \"Any reporting that I had anything to do with the recent unsuccessful coup attempt in Turkey is unfortunate and completely inaccurate. ... We appreciate Turkey's continuing cooperation and look forward to our future partnership in the counter-ISIL fight.\"\n\nOn August 1, 2018, President Donald Trump's administration sanctioned two top Turkish government officials, Turkish Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gül and Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu, over the detention of American pastor Andrew Brunson. The indictment alleged that American pastor had ties with Gülen's network. Daniel Glaser, the former Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing under President Barack Obama, said: \"It’s certainly the first time I can think of\" the U.S. sanctioning a NATO ally. \"I certainly regard it as a human rights violation to unlawfully detain somebody, so I think it falls within the scope of the Global Magnitsky Act.\"\n\nIn July 2016, the U.S., with the support of Britain, drafted language for the United Nations Security Council that would have expressed grave concern over the situation, called upon on all parties to \"respect the democratically elected government of Turkey\" and the rule of law, and urged the parties to show restraint and avoid violence. However, Egypt blocked the proposed statement. Egyptian diplomats argued that the Council is \"in no position to qualify, or label [the Turkish] government – or any other government for that matter – as democratically elected or not\". Objection by the United States and the UK – permanent members of the Security Council – led to Egypt proposing a new statement calling for all sides to \"respect the democratic and constitutional principles and the rule of law\", which was rejected, preventing the condemnation of the coup attempt by the Security Council.\n\nIn August 2016, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein decried the purge. Zeid said that while he opposed the coup attempt, the wide-ranging purge showed a \"thirst for revenge\" that was alarming. Later that month, a group of experts in the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights issued a joint statement saying that the purges may violate international law, specifically Turkey's obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The statement said: \"While we understand the sense of crisis in Turkey, we are concerned that the government's steps to limit a broad range of human rights guarantees go beyond what can be justified in light of the current situation. Turkey is going through a critical period. Derogation measures must not be used in a way that will push the country deeper into crisis.\"\n\nIn March 2018 Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights issued a report on the impact of the state of emergency on human rights in Turkey. The report indicates interference of the executive with the work of the judiciary and curtailment of parliamentary oversight over the executive branch of government; arbitrary mass dismissals of civil servants and private sector employees; arbitrary closure of civil society organizations, including prominent human rights NGOs and media; arbitrary detention of people arrested under state of emergency measures; the use of torture and ill-treatment during pre-trial detention; restrictions of the rights to freedoms of expression and of movement; arbitrary expropriation of private property; and methods of collective punishment targeting family members of individuals suspected of offences under the state of emergency. OHCHR noted with concern that the routine extensions of the state of emergency may lead to an enduring system of governing characterized by a large number of arbitrary decisions that profoundly affect the lives of many individuals and families. \n\nCan Dündar, Editor-in-chief of the Turkish daily \"Cumhuriyet\", described the purges as part of a historical pattern of political power in Turkey shifting back and forth between the secular military versus religious institutions, with democrats in the middle having little power to prevent the repeated oscillations, but worse than previous cycles. He described the 2016 purges as \"the biggest witch-hunt in Turkey's history\". Historians and analysts including Henri J. Barkey, Director of the Middle East Program of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, compared the 2016 Turkish purges to Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution that started in 1966 and the Iranian Cultural Revolution in which Iranian academia was purged during 1980–1987. The government of Turkey has been analysed to blame Western forces and raise anti-Americanism in order to distract the public from real intranational tensions, as well as to take an upper ground for negotiations. According to the \"New York Times\", \"Searching for historical parallels, analysts have made comparisons with Joseph McCarthy’s anti-Communist witch hunt in 1950s America, the Stalinist purges of the 1930s and the Cultural Revolution in China in the 1960s and ’70s.\" Other comparisons have been made with Hitler's use of the Reichstag fire to consolidate his power, and with Atatürk's use of the 1926 assassination plot on his life to purge Turkey of his political opponents and rivals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10009165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10009165", "title": "AUSTUDY Scheme", "text": "AUSTUDY Scheme\n\nThe AUSTUDY scheme was an Australian educational assistance scheme that provided financial assistance to eligible students between 16 and 64 years of age. The program commenced on 1 January 1987 and ceased on 30 June 1998.\n\nUpon commencement on 1 January 1987, AUSTUDY replaced the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme (TEAS) which was introduced by the Whitlam Government in 1973 for students enrolled at university or other tertiary education institutions, and Adult Secondary Education Assistance Scheme (ASEAS) and Secondary Allowances Scheme (SAS) for those who needed financial assistance while enrolled at high school.\n\nAUSTUDY was administered through the provisions of the \"Student Assistance Act 1973\" and AUSTUDY Regulations.\n\nThe AUSTUDY scheme had 3 categories:\n\nIn general, it provided financial assistance in the form of:\n\nOn 1 July 1998, the Australian Government introduced new provisions for this payment to be paid under the \"Social Security Act 1991\". At the same time, the AUSTUDY scheme was renamed to Youth Allowance for 16- to 24-year-old students and Austudy Payment for students between 25 and 64 years of age. The pensioner education supplement program was retained, but its provisions were also moved to the \"Social Security Act 1991\". The payment was administered through various Australian Government Departments including the Department of Education, the Department of Employment, Education, Training and Youth Affairs (DEETYA), the Department of Education, Training and Youth Affairs (DETYA) and Centrelink.\n\n"}
{"id": "37936522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37936522", "title": "All-Ukrainian Congress of Soviets", "text": "All-Ukrainian Congress of Soviets\n\nThe All-Ukrainian Congress of Soviets (, ) was the supreme governing body of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic from 1917–22. From 1922 to 1938 the Constitution of the Ukrainian SSR designated after the 1918 Russian Constitution mandated that Congress to be convened at least twice a year. The 1926 Constitution (in correspondence to all Soviet constitutions) lowered the minimum to once a year.\n\nIn total there were 14 Congresses of Soviets that for the most of the time took place in Kharkiv. Importance in conducting the congress of Soviets advised the People's Commissar in Affairs of Nationalities of the Russian Sovnarkom Joseph Stalin in his recommendations to a representative of Central Committee of Ukrainian Social Democratic Labour Party Mykola Porsh and a member of the Kiev regional committee of RSDLP(b) Sergei Bakinsky on November 30, 1917. The congress was intended to replace the Central Council of Ukraine.\n\nThe very first Congress of Soviet initially took place in Kiev on December 17 (December 4, old style), 1917 in the hall of the M.Sadovsky Theater (also known as Trinity Public House). Over 2500 delegates participated at the congress. The Congress was called by the Kiev regional soviet of workers' and soldiers' deputies on the request of the Bolshevik organizations of Ukraine. Concurrently on December 16–18, 1917 in Kiev was taken place a regional congress of Bolsheviks of Ukraine. The Bolshevik Congress created a united political party of Ukraine the \"RSDLP(b) - Social-Democracy of Ukraine\" headed by the Chief Committee.\n\nThe first addressed issue was the election of the Congress presidium which was headed by the honorary chairman of congress Mykhailo Hrushevsky. The central question on the congress agenda was the \"Ultimatum of the Sovnarkom of Russia to the Central Council of Ukraine\". On December 18, 1917 the congress condemned the ultimatum. The Bolshevik faction leader and member of organizational committee Vladimir Zatonsky announced that there has been a misunderstanding as too many delegates that were present at the congress without a right of vote. Zatonsky proposed to announce a break and check credentials of all delegates. As an answer to the proposal, the leader of the Peasant Association Mykola Stasyuk declared that the regional committee of Soviets of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies wished to falsify the will of Ukrainian people by giving preference to workers and soldier who in addition were not even Ukrainians over peasants. Therefore, the central committee of the Peasant Association took care on its part to increase the peasant representation at the congress. After that Bolsheviks proposed to recognize the congress as a consultative meeting. When the proposal was rejected, the 127 supporters of Bolsheviks left the congress in protest. The rest participating delegates recognized the assembly as a competent congress. On December 18, 1917 the 124 delegates from 49 Soviets who left the Kiev Congress gathered at a separate meeting in the Kiev Central Bureau of Trade Unions.\n\nOn December 21, 1917 the Red Guards of the Soviet Russia led by Vladimir Antonov-Ovseyenko occupied Kharkiv. At night on December 22, 1917 the Russian Red Guards with local Bolsheviks disarmed Ukrainian military units and arrested leaders of the Kharkiv City Council and garrison. On December 23, 1917 Bolsheviks established a revkom (revolutionary committee). The headquarters of a local Red Guard was established on December 14, 1917 and was located in the Stock Exchange building at Market Square (today Ploshcha Konstytutsii - Constitution Square).\n\nOn December 24–25, 1917 in the (Market Square) in Kharkiv took place another First Congress of Soviets. The congress gathered initially 964 participants, amount of which later grew to 1250. The congress reviewed several issues: attitudes towards the Central Council of Ukraine, war and peace as well as about organization of military force, about Ukraine and Soviet Russia, estate and financial issues and others.\n\nThe congress approved the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk between Russian SFSR and Central Powers, declared the independence of the Soviet Ukrainian People's Republic as a federative republic of Soviet Russia, Law about socialization of land adopted by the 3rd All-Russian Congress of Soviets, \"About state system\", decrees on 8-hour work day and labor control, organization of the Workers-Peasant Red Army of Ukraine. The policy of the Central Council of Ukraine in the resolution \"About political moment\" was condemned requesting withdrawal of the Austrian and German Armed Forces from Ukraine. Participants elected the new composition of the Central Executive Committee of Ukraine of 102 members headed by Vladimir Zatonsky.\n\nThe Second All-Ukrainian Congress of Soviets took place in Katerynoslav.\n\nThe Congress ceased to exist at the end of the constitutional reform of 1936-1937, when the first on the union and then at the republican levels indirect election to Soviets were replaced by direct elections at all levels with the Supreme Soviet as the highest body.\n\nThe Congress was formed of representatives of city councils (soviets) (1 delegate per 25,000 voters) and the congresses of the provincial (oblast) and autonomous republican council (1 deputy for every 125 thousand inhabitants).\n\nThe exclusive jurisdiction of the Congress consisted of:\nOn the other issues the Congress and Central Executive Committee had the same authority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3648055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3648055", "title": "American Society of Pharmacognosy", "text": "American Society of Pharmacognosy\n\nThe American Society of Pharmacognosy (ASP) is a scientific society that promotes the growth and development of pharmacognosy through presentation of research achievements and publication of meritorious research.\n\nASP was founded in 1959 as an outgrowth of the Plant Science Seminar established in 1923. ASP has over 1,100 active and associate members. Appromimately 40 percent of the active members reside outside the U.S. and Canada in more than 60 countries.\n\nPharmacognosy includes the study of the physical, chemical, biochemical and biological properties of drugs, drug substances, or potential drugs or drug substances of natural origin as well as the search for new drugs from natural sources. Research problems in pharmacognosy include studies in the areas of phytochemistry, microbial chemistry, biosynthesis, biotransformation, chemotaxonomy and other biological and chemical sciences.\n\nASP publishes the quarterly \"ASP Newsletter\" and co-publishes the \"Journal of Natural Products\" with the American Chemical Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3176961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176961", "title": "Arbetarnas bildningsförbund", "text": "Arbetarnas bildningsförbund\n\nArbetarnas bildningsförbund (ABF) (the Workers' Educational Association) is the educational section of the Swedish labour movement. ABF conducts seminars, classes and study circles on a variety of subjects, including workshops, languages and music.\n\nABF was founded on 16 November 1912, by the Swedish Social Democratic Party and some of the trade unions. Today, the main members of ABF are the Social Democrats and the Left Party.\n\nThere are ABF locations in almost every Swedish town and several in the major cities. Its headquarters are on , near Sveavägen street in Stockholm. In Gothenburg, the ABF building is on Olof Palmes Gata, near Järntorget square.\n\nThe Moa Award () is an annual literary prize awarded jointly by ABF and the Moa Martinson Society to a person who writes in the spirit of Moa Martinson. The prize has been awarded since 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41991149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41991149", "title": "Army Plots (1641)", "text": "Army Plots (1641)\n\nThe Army Plots of 1641 were two real or alleged attempts by Royalist supporters of Charles I of England to use the army to crush dissent among members of the English parliament in the run-up to the English Civil War. The plan was to move the army stationed in York down to London and to use it to reassert royal authority. It was also claimed that the plotters were seeking French military aid and that they planned to seize and fortify towns to become Royalist strongholds.\n\nThe exposure of the plots by leading Parliamentarians such as John Pym allowed the Parliament faction to gain the upper hand by imprisoning or forcing into exile many of the king's supporters, including his wife Henrietta Maria. According to Conrad Russell, it remains unclear \"who plotted with whom to do what\" and that \"Charles I's plots, like his grandmother's lovers, are capable of growing in the telling\". Nevertheless, there were clearly real attempts to negotiate the movement of troops to London.\n\nThe so-called \"first army plot\" unfolded between March and May 1641. It emerged after discontent in the English army with parliament grew following the grant of funds for the Scottish army which had earlier been intended for the English. George Goring proposed that the army at York should march south to threaten Parliament. The poet-soldiers William Davenant and John Suckling, along with Henry Jermyn, supported the move and hoped to occupy the Tower of London. This was linked to a plan to free the king's supporter, Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford, who had been imprisoned in the Tower by Parliament. Meanwhile, Henry Percy was also independently planning to petition Parliament for financial support for the army.\n\nAt a meeting with the king and queen, Percy and Goring discussed the proposal to bring the main army south. Rumours began to circulate that the king would take command of the army and that French troops would be sent in support. However, the main body of the soldiery refused to accept the proposals and so it was abandoned. Goring told Mountjoy Blount, 1st Earl of Newport, of the plans. Blount passed on the information indirectly to leading Parliamentarian John Pym in April. Davenant and Suckling, however, still planned to seize the Tower. Soldiers loyal to the king were placed in position, but the situation soon became known to Parliament, and a stand-off developed. Soldiers loyal to Parliament quickly took control of the Tower.\n\nIn the ensuing investigation, much was made of claims that the king and queen were plotting to obtain French military support. It was claimed that the queen had diverted her personal funds to the port of Portsmouth, of which Goring was in command, in order to turn it into a Royalist fortress. Evidence was also produced that the king was gathering funds to win military men over to his side.\n\nAs soon as the plot was discovered Percy sought to flee to France, but was assaulted and wounded by country people in Sussex. He was forced to go into hiding. He wrote a letter to his brother, giving an account of events, which the Parliamentarians later used as proof of the reality of the plot. After his capture, he tried to blame others. Royalists condemned him for betraying the King. Goring too distanced himself from the plans of Davenant and Suckling. His submission to Parliament allowed him to retain control of Portsmouth. Davenant, Jermyn and Suckling all fled to France, where Suckling died shortly afterwards, probably by suicide. The failure of the plot contributed to the condemnation and execution of Strafford as a traitor, and alienated many moderate Royalists from the king.\n\nA few months after the first plot, there were claims that a second plot to bring the army south in support of royal power was in motion. In May, the king had sent Daniel O'Neill to negotiate with army leaders, suggesting that they might move their forces south to \"protect\" both the king and moderate parliamentarians. O'Neill also sought to ensure that Scottish leaders would remain neutral (Scotland was still a separate kingdom, but Charles was king in both England and Scotland). Pym sought to rally support to put local militias on alert against the proposed move, which again failed to find sufficient support among army commanders.\n\nWilliam Legge, who had been questioned after the first plot, was directly involved with the second. Along with two other M.P.s, Henry Wilmot, 1st Earl of Rochester was expelled from the Long Parliament in December 1641 for alleged complicity in the Second Army Plot and was placed under arrest. O'Neill escaped to France, but soon returned and was arrested and imprisoned. This time Percy was also expelled from the House of Commons in December, after which he too left for France.\n\nThe two army plots had the effect of hardening the differences between the two sides, and ultimately of strengthening the Parliamentary cause by allowing Parliament to gauge the extent of support for the king among army commanders. Pym was also able to establish the conditions for militias and pro-Parliamentary factions to defend towns potentially threatened by the Royalists. Leading Royalists were either forced into exile or deprived of power, further strengthening Parliament's hand.\n\nThe events made it increasingly clear that the king would not be able to impose his will with a threat of force. His attempt to arrest his leading opponents in Parliament without army backing in January 1642, was an abject failure. He fled from London to his strongholds in the Midlands a few days later. The queen left the country. When Charles made clear his intention to fight, Goring, still in control of Portsmouth, immediately declared in favour of the king. Jermyn and Davenant both returned to England to join the king. O'Neill escaped from prison in 1642 dressed as a woman, and also joined the Royalists. Percy and Wilmot joined the Royalists, but eventually fell out of Charles' favour for advocating negotiations with Parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "44750857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44750857", "title": "Asia Region Funds Passport", "text": "Asia Region Funds Passport\n\nThe Asia Region Funds Passport is an economic initiative to provide regional management of funds throughout member states in Asia. It is led by Australia, Singapore, New Zealand and the Republic of Korea, all of whom signed a Statement of Intent on 20 September 2013 at the APEC Finance Ministers’ meeting in Nusa Dua, Bali.\n\nThe ministers from these economies signed with a view that their economies can potentially become members of the passport once it is launched in 2016, and that they agree with the principles set out in the framework document. This document forms the basis of the future passport arrangements.\n\nThe possibility exists for the passport to grow beyond Asia to Europe, if a mutual recognition agreement is signed.\n\nThe passport was first mentioned in the 2010 Johnson report by the Australian Financial Centre Forum.\n\nPWC released a report commissioned by the Australian Financial Services Council in November 2010, that provided a qualitative analysis of reception to the ARFP idea and potential upside.\n\nIn partnership with Volguard, APEC published a quantitative study in July 2014, of the economic benefits and costs of the ARFP to the individual economies and the Asia region. Through the extensive assessment conducted by Volguard Analytics, the potential gains from the ARFP were measured against their potential risks.\n"}
{"id": "280774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280774", "title": "Bolivarian Revolution", "text": "Bolivarian Revolution\n\nThe Bolivarian Revolution is a political process in Venezuela led by late Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, the founder of the Fifth Republic Movement and later the United Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV). The Bolivarian Revolution is named after Simón Bolívar, an early 19th-century Venezuelan and Latin American revolutionary leader, prominent in the Spanish American wars of independence in achieving the independence of most of northern South America from Spanish rule. According to Chávez and other supporters, the Bolivarian Revolution seeks to build an inter-American coalition to implement Bolivarianism, nationalism and a state-led economy.\n\nOn his 57th birthday, while announcing that he was being treated for cancer, Chávez announced that he had changed the slogan of the Bolivarian Revolution from \"Motherland, socialism, or death\" to \"Socialist motherland and victory. We will live, and we will come out victorious\".\n\nAs of 2018, the vast majority mayoral and gubernatorial offices are held by PSUV candidates, while the opposition Democratic Unity (MUD) coalition won two thirds of parliamentary seats in 2015. Political hostility between the PSUV and MUD have lead to several incidents where both pro-government and opposition demonstrations have turned violent, with an estimated 150 dead as a result in 2017. Additionally, there are claims and counterclaims relating to the imprisonment of opposition figures, with the government claiming that their political status neither impedes nor motivates prosecution for the crimes that they have been convicted of, while the opposition claims that these arrests and charges are politically motivated. As a result of populist policies initiated by the Bolivarian government, the economy of Venezuela has rapidly deteriorated, leading to hyperinflation, shortages of food and medicine and a rising crime rate.\n\nSimón Bolívar has left a long lasting imprint on Venezuela's history in particular and South America in general. \n\nAs a military cadet, Hugo Chávez was \"a celebrant of the Bolivarian passion story\". Chávez relied upon the ideas of Bolívar and on Bolívar as a popular symbol later in his military career as he put together his MBR-200 movement which would become a vehicle for his 1992 coup-attempt.\n\nSouth America in the late 1980s and early 1990s was just recovering from the Latin American debt crisis of the mid-1980s and many governments had adopted austerity and privatization policies to finance International Monetary Fund (IMF) loans. Following the end of the Cold War and the fall of the military dictatorships in Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, social movements including labor and indigenous currents opposed the austerity and called for debt forgiveness, sometimes resulting in clashes with the state (see Caracazo and 2000 Ecuadorian coup d'état). It was in this context that Chávez and MBR-200 (as the Fifth Republic Movement) won the 1998 elections and initiated the constituent process that resulted in the Venezuelan Constitution of 1999.\n\n\"Chavismo\" policies include nationalization, social welfare programs (Bolivarian missions) and opposition to neoliberalism (particularly the policies of the IMF and the World Bank). According to Hugo Chávez, Venezuelan socialism accepts private property, but this socialism seeks to promote social property too. \"Chavismo\" also support participatory democracy and workplace democracy. In January 2007, Chávez proposed to build the communal state, whose main idea is to build self-government institutions like communal councils, communes and communal cities.\n\nAccording to the United States Army Combined Arms Center: A few year after Chávez rose to power in 1999, he began implementing a political-strategic plan he called the 'Bolivarian Revolution,' which threatened Latin American peace. Chávez's plan was characterized by a hostile and confrontational posture toward the United States, actions designed to export Chávez's autocratic, socialist model to other countries of the region, and a foreign policy that embroiled Venezuela in international-level conflicts.\n\nChávez was seen as a leader of the \"pink tide\", a turn towards left-wing governments in Latin American democracies. Analysts have pointed out additional anti-American, populist and authoritarian-leaning traits in those governments.\n\nChávez refocused Venezuelan foreign policy on Latin American economic and social integration by enacting bilateral trade and reciprocal aid agreements, including his so-called \"oil diplomacy\", making Venezuela more dependent on using oil (its main commodity) and increasing its longterm vulnerability. Though Chávez inspired other movements in Latin America to follow his model of \"chavismo\" in an attempt to reshape South America, it was later seen as being erratic and his influence internationally became exaggerated, with the pink tide beginning to subside in 2009.\n\nThe social programs (called \"missions\" in Venezuela) that came into being during the term of Hugo Chávez sought to reduce social disparities and were funded in large part by oil revenues. The sustainability and design of the welfare programs have been both praised and criticized. Specific examples of social programs are listed below.\n\nPlan Bolívar 2000 was the first of the Bolivarian Missions enacted under of administration of Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez. According to the United States Department of State, Chávez wanted to \"send the message that the military was not a force of popular repression, but rather a force for development and security\". The United States State Department also commented that this happened \"only 23 days after his inauguration\" and that he wanted to show his closest supporters \"that he had not forgotten them\". The plan involved around 40,000 Venezuelan soldiers engaged in door-to-door anti-poverty activities, including mass vaccinations, food distribution in slum areas and education. Several scandals affected the program as allegations of corruption were formulated against Generals involved in the plan, arguing that significant amounts of money had been diverted.\n\nThe mission was to provide comprehensive publicly funded health care, dental care and sports training to poor and marginalized communities in Venezuela. \"Barrio Adentro\" featured the construction of thousands of iconic two-story medical clinics—\"consultorios\" or doctor’s offices—as well as staffing with resident certified medical professionals. \"Barrio Adentro\" constitutes an attempt to deliver a \"de facto\" form of universal health care, seeking to guarantee access to quality and cradle-to-grave medical attention for all Venezuelan citizens. As of 2006, the staff included 31,439 professionals, technical personnel, and health technicians, of which 15,356 were Cuban doctors and 1,234 Venezuelan doctors. The Latin American branch of the World Health Organization and UNICEF both praised the program. Though positive outcomes have come from the mission, there have been some struggles as well. In July 2007, Douglas León Natera, chairman of the Venezuelan Medical Federation, reported that up to 70% of the modules of Barrio Adentro were either abandoned or were left unfinished. In 2014, residents in Caracas also complained of the service despite large funding from the Venezuelan government.\n\nMission Habitat's goal is the construction of thousands of new housing units for the poor. The program also seeks to develop agreeable and integrated housing zones that make available a full range of social services—from education to healthcare—which likens its vision to that of New Urbanism. According to Venezuela's \"El Universal\", one of the Chávez administration's outstanding weaknesses is the failure to meet its goals of construction of housing. Chávez promised to build 150,000 houses in 2006, but in the first half of the year completed only 24 percent of that target, with 35,000 houses.\n\nThe Mission involves a state-run company called Mercados de Alimentos, C.A. (MERCAL), which provides subsidised food and basic goods through a nationwide chain of stores. In 2010 Mercal was reported as having 16,600 outlets, \"ranging from street-corner shops to huge warehouse stores\", in addition to 6,000 soup kitchens. Mercal employs 85,000 workers. In 2006, some 11.36 million Venezuelans benefited from Mercal food programs on a regular basis. At least 14,208 Mission Mercal food distribution sites were spread throughout Venezuela and 4,543 metric tons of food distributed each day. In recent times, customers who had to wait in long lines for discounted products say that there were a lack of products in Mercal stores and that items available at the stores change constantly. Some customers complained about rationing being enforced at Mercal stores due to the lack of products. In some cases, protests have occurred due to the shortages in stores.\n\nThe program uses volunteers to teach reading, writing and arithmetic to the more than 1.5 million Venezuelan adults who were illiterate prior to Chávez's election to the presidency in 1999. The program is military-civilian in nature and sends soldiers to—among other places—remote and dangerous locales in order to reach the most undereducated, neglected and marginalized adult citizens to give them regular schooling and lessons. On 28 October 2005, Venezuela declared itself a \"Territory Free of Illiteracy\", having raised in its initial estimates the literacy rate to around 99%, although the statistic was changed to 96%. According to UNESCO standards, a country can be declared \"illiteracy-free\" if 96% of its population over age 15 can read and write.\n\nAccording to Francisco Rodríguez and Daniel Ortega of IESA, there has been \"little evidence\" of \"statistically distinguishable effect on Venezuelan illiteracy\". The Venezuelan government claimed that it had taught 1.5 million Venezuelans to read, but the study found that \"only 1.1m were illiterate to begin with\" and that the illiteracy reduction of less than 100,000 can be attributed to adults that were elderly and died. David Rosnick and Mark Weisbrot of the Center for Economic and Pplicy Research responded to these doubts, finding that the data used by Rodríguez and Ortega was too crude a measure since the Household Survey from which it derived was never designed to measure literacy or reading skills and their methods were inappropriate to provide statistical evidence regarding the size of Venezuela's national literacy program. Rodríguez responded to Weisbrot's rebuttal by showing that Weisbrot used biased, distorted data and that the illiteracy argument Weisbrot used showed the exact opposite of what Weisbrot was attempting to convey.\n\nFollowing the death of Hugo Chávez, his successor Nicolás Maduro faced the consequences of Chávez's policies, with Maduro's approval declining and protests in Venezuela beginning in 2014. The Chávez and Maduro administrations often blamed difficulties that Venezuela faced on foreign intervention in the country's affairs.\n\nAs of 2016, Bolivarian Venezuela suffered from hyperinflation and a dramatic loss of jobs and income (consumer prices rose 800% and the economy contracted by 19% during 2016), widespread hunger (the \"Venezuela's Living Conditions Survey\" (ENCOVI) found nearly 75% of the population had lost an average of at least 8.7 kg in weight due to a lack of proper nutrition) and a soaring murder rate (90 people per 100,000 had been murdered in Venezuela in 2015 compared to 5 per 100,000 in the United States according to the Observatory of Venezuelan Violence).\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch To silence critics, the government has conducted widespread arrests and other repression. Since 2014, we have been documenting the violent response of security forces to protests, with beatings and arrests of peaceful demonstrators and even bystanders and torture in detention. The Venezuelan Penal Forum, a nongovernmental group that provides legal assistance to detainees, counts more than 90 people it considers political prisoners.According to the \"International Policy Digest\", \"[t]he Bolivarian revolution is a failure not because its ideals were unachievable but because its leaders were as corrupt as those they decry\", with the Bolivarian government relying on oil for its economy, essentially suffering from Dutch disease. As a result of the Bolivarian government's policies, Venezuelans suffered from shortages, inflation, crime and other socioeconomic issues, with many Venezuelans resorting to leave their native country to seek a better life elsewhere.\n\nFollowing the Bolivarian Revolution, many wealthy Venezuelans have sought residence in other countries. According to \"Newsweek\", the \"Bolivarian diaspora is a reversal of fortune on a massive scale\" where the reversal is a comparison to when in the 20th century \"Venezuela was a haven for immigrants fleeing Old World repression and intolerance\". \"El Universal\" explains how the \"Bolivarian diaspora\" in Venezuela has been caused by the \"deterioration of both the economy and the social fabric, rampant crime, uncertainty and lack of hope for a change in leadership in the near future\".\n\nIn 1998, the year Chavez was first elected, only 14 Venezuelans were granted asylum in the United States. In just twelve months in September 1999, 1,086 Venezuelans were granted asylum according to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. It has been calculated that from 1998 to 2013 over 1.5 million Venezuelans, between 4% and 6% of the Venezuela's total population, left the country following the Bolivarian Revolution. Many of former Venezuelan citizens studied gave reasons for leaving Venezuela that included lacking of freedom, high levels of insecurity and lacking opportunity in the country. It has also been stated that some parents in Venezuela encourage their children to leave the country in protection of their children due to the insecurities Venezuelans face. This has led to human capital flight occurring in Venezuela.\n\nIn November 2018, UNHCR (the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) and the IOM (International Organization for Migration) said the number of refugees had risen to 3 million, most of which had gone to other Latin American countries and the Caribbean.\n\nBolivarianism was emulated in Bolivia and Ecuador, which experienced crises of political parties. According to a 2017 study, Bolivarianism failed to spread further through Latin America and the Caribbean \"in nations where political parties and democratic institutions remained functioning, and where the left and civil society valued democracy, pluralism, and liberal rights due to brutal autocratic experiences\". The study also found that \"the fear of Bolivarianism also led to a coup against president Zelaya in Honduras\".\n\nAspects of Bolivarianism were adapted by the Spanish political party Podemos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1326145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1326145", "title": "Breton Liberation Front", "text": "Breton Liberation Front\n\nThe Breton Liberation Front (, or FLB) is a militant group founded in 1963 to promote the \"liberation of Brittany from France\". Brittany is a province in northwest France, and formed an independent Duchy of Brittany until the treaty of union in 1532.\n\nBreton Nationalism had been a significant force in the early 20th century through the Breton National Party, but it has been discredited by its association with collaborationism in World War II. The FLB represented a new wave of nationalist politics associated with anti-colonialist ideology. The group claimed that Brittany was oppressed by France acting as a colonial power.\n\nCitizens of Brittany, or, Bretons, retain their own national identity including an independent language from that of France, music and other cultural details. Bretons are considered an ethnic Celtic group with English, German and French roots.\n\nThe group was linked to surviving members of earlier nationalist groups, notably Yann Goulet, who was operating from Ireland. The first known FLB attack occurred in June 1966 when a municipal tax office in Saint-Brieuc was bombed, and a note signed by the FLB claimed that they would continue to carry out a campaign of violence against these \"occupying symbols of Brittany.\"\n\nIn the following years, the FLB carried out attacks against administrative structures, such as electrical installations, police barracks and statues—mainly by bombing them. The number of attacks peaked in 1968. However, the FLB ensured that no physical injuries or deaths would result from their attacks, which they wished to remain purely symbolic. In this they followed the model of the earlier group Gwenn ha du. They thus gained a reputation in the international community as the \"smiling terrorists.\" There are even reports that the only two known FLB victims during this period were two FLB members themselves, who were killed while trying to defuse a bomb they were afraid may hurt civilians.\n\nFactions in the FLB emerged in the early 1970s, leading to the creation of the militant Breton Revolutionary Army (\"Armée révolutionnaire bretonne\", or ARB). This group acted separately from the FLB and proved to be the durable faction that still exists today. There were several Breton liberation groups that were distinct from the FLB.\n\nThe first known FLB attack occurred in June 1966 when a municipal tax office in Saint-Brieuc was bombed, and a note signed by the FLB claimed that they would continue to carry out a campaign of violence against these \"occupying symbols of Brittany.\" In the following years, the FLB carried out attacks against administrative structures, such as electrical installations, police barracks and statues—mainly by bombing them. Though the group peaked in 1968 there have been attacks reported as recently as 2014 using incineration tactics. .\n\nThe FLB ensured that no physical injuries or deaths would result from their attacks, which they wished to remain purely symbolic; in this they followed the model of the earlier group Gwenn ha du, founded 1930. There are reports that the only two known FLB victims during this period were two FLB members themselves, who were killed while trying to defuse a bomb they were afraid may hurt civilians. They thus gained a reputation in the international community as the \"smiling terrorists.\"\n\nOne of their most notorious acts was the 1978 bombing of the Palace of Versailles.\n\nIt was in 1969 that the police intervened, confiscating propaganda and weaponry. More than 60 people were arrested, those directly involved in previous attacks were given brief sentences, however within a few months many had been granted amnesty, or pardons, and released. Although created by young Bretons in the early 1960s, the FLB enjoyed popular support, evident during these arrests which revealed that members came from very diverse backgrounds: businessmen, housewives, students, farmers, and even clergy.\n\nThough most had favorable outcomes for the organization, trials bolstered the Breton \"liberation\" movement as the trials were perceived to be further suppressive action by the government. This period was also marked with a rise in the number of students enrolling in Breton language courses, as being able to speak Breton was seen as legitimizing one's position as a Breton militant.\n\nYann Fouere\n\nMain article: Yann Fouéré\n\nYann was a prominent force in the Breton Liberation Front, so much so that he fled to Ireland 1948, seeking political asylum. He was an author, businessman and, in some ways politician. In 1999 he formed the \"Party for the Organization of Free Brittany\" which he led until 2004.\n\nYann was involved in a \"Pro-German witch Hunt\" in 1944, where he was held in custody for a year. Upon escape, he was sheltered by fellow Nationalists in Wales. While hidden he was sentenced to life in prison and was forced out of Brittany and into the Republic of Ireland, where he secured citizenship. In 1955 He was given a retrial in France and came back, innocent, to form the \"Movement for the Organization of Brittany.\"\n\nIn 1973 Yann ran for political office, lost, then was arrested two years later for involvement with the Breton Liberation Front's bombings. He was released conditionally until 1979 when he and 22 others were charged with security-related offences .\n\nHe died in Ireland at 101 years old in 2011, where he spent his last days advocating for Breton Nationalism and avoiding being tried as a \"wartime collaborator.\"\n\nYann Puillandre\n\nDr. Gourves\n\nFr. Le Breton\n"}
{"id": "37696987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37696987", "title": "Center for European Democracy Studies", "text": "Center for European Democracy Studies\n\nThe Centre for European Democracy Studies was established in Brussels in 2008 by a group of researchers studying Europe's political history and the current state of democracy in the continent. The research establishment serves as a place of regular events covering studies of the European democracy institution, key threats existing today, as well as countries on the way to democracy establishment and development in Europe. \n\nThe Centre holds conferences, workshops and other events resulting in formulation of recommendations to the European governmental authorities and public organizations aiming to strengthen the democracy and political stability fundamentals.\n\n"}
{"id": "7213498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7213498", "title": "Child and Adult Care Food Program", "text": "Child and Adult Care Food Program\n\nThe Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) is a type of United States federal assistance provided by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to states in order to provide a daily subsidized food service for an estimated 3.3 million children and 120,000 elderly or mentally or physically impaired adults in non-residential, day-care settings. It is a branch within the Policy and Program Development Division of the Child nutrition programs, along with the School Programs Branch, which runs the National School Lunch Program. The program is commonly referred to as the Child Care, Child Care Food, Adult Care, or Adult Care Food Program, and is often operating in conjunction with other child and adult day-care programs, such as the Head Start. Its federal identification number, or CFDA number, is 10.558. Section 17 of the National School Lunch Act, and USDA issues the program regulations under 7 CFR part 226.\n\nThe program’s benefits consist of nutritious meals and snacks served to eligible children and adults who are enrolled for care at participating child care centers, adult day care centers, outside-school-hours care centers, after-school at-risk programs, family and group day care homes, and homeless and emergency shelters. These centers and shelters can be public and private non-profit centers, proprietary organizations, schools, private homes, and elderly centers, among others, on condition that they all comply with federal, state and local licensing and approval requirements. Through CACFP, children and older adults gain access to \"nutritious foods that contribute to the wellness, healthy growth, and development of young children, and the health and wellness of older adults and chronically impaired disabled persons.\"\n\nThe USDA's Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) administers the program through grants-in-aid to states. The program is administered within most states by its designated educational agency, such as New York’s Education Department. In certain states, the program is administered by an alternate agency, such as the state department of health, family and/or social services. At the discretion of the state’s governor, different agencies may administer the program’s child-care and adult day-care components, such as Wildwood C.A.C.F.P in Colorado. In the state of Virginia, the program is directly administered by the Food and Nutrition Service Mid-Atlantic Regional Office (MARO).\n\nActual federal assistance provided to states and their designated agencies are in the form of cash reimbursement for meals served, and any other donation by the USDA to provide such meals. Program funds are provided to states through letters of credit issued under the FNS Agency Financial Management System. The states, in turn, use the funds to reimburse institutions for costs of actual operations (e.g., providing meals), as well as to support state administrative expenses. Generally, a state’s claim to cash reimbursement from the USDA is computed by first determining the number of meals served (by category and type), and multiplying the amount of service by a per-unit payment rate, also known as the “reimbursement rate.” The “type” of meal refers to the kind of meal service for which the institution seeks reimbursement, such as breakfasts, lunches, snacks, supplements, and dinners served. The “category” refers to the type of economic need of the child or adult to whom a meal is served, which can be categorized as “paid,” “reduced price,” or “free” meals.\n\nChild-care, adult day-care, and outside-school-hours centers may charge a single fee to cover tuition, meals, and all other day care services to recoup certain costs; however, the vast majority of these centers operate non-pricing (free) programs. Nevertheless, all institutions must determine the eligibility of children and adults enrolled at these centers (e.g. ,low-income, mentally or physically disabled, etc.) for free or reduced price meals because such eligibility determinations affect the reimbursement rates for meals served to the participants. Homeless children residing at a participating homeless shelter are considered categorically eligible for meals served by that shelter. After-school at-risk programs, emergency shelters, and family day care homes are prohibited from charging separately for meals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "197003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197003", "title": "Chris Ofili", "text": "Chris Ofili\n\nChristopher Ofili, known as Chris Ofili (born 10 October 1968), is a Nigerian British Turner Prize-winning painter who is best known for his paintings incorporating elephant dung. He was one of the Young British Artists. Since 2005, Ofili has been living and working in Trinidad and Tobago, where he currently resides in Port of Spain. He also lives and works in London and Brooklyn.\n\nOfili was born in Manchester to May and Michael Ofili. When he was eleven, his father left the family and moved back to Nigeria. Ofili was for some years educated at St. Pius X High School for Boys, and then at Xaverian College in Victoria Park, Manchester. Ofili completed a foundation course in art at Tameside College in Ashton-under-Lyne in Greater Manchester and then studied in London, at the Chelsea School of Art from 1988 to 1991 and at the Royal College of Art from 1991 to 1993. In the fall of 1992, he got a one-year exchange scholarship to Universität der Künste Berlin.\n\nOfili visited Trinidad for the first time in 2000, when he was invited by an international art trust to attend a painting workshop in Port of Spain. He permanently moved to Trinidad in 2005. He lives with his wife Roba, former singer with trip-hop band Attica Blues, whom he married in 2002. He maintains a studio on Lady Chancellor Road, about ten minutes from downtown Port of Spain, in Trinidad.\n\nOfili's early work was heavily influenced by Jean-Michel Basquiat, Georg Baselitz, Philip Guston, and George Condo. Peter Doig was doing graduate work at the Chelsea College of Arts when Ofili was an undergraduate, and they soon became friends. In 2014, art critic Roberta Smith held that Ofili has much in common with painters like Mickalene Thomas, Kerry James Marshall, Robert Colescott and Ellen Gallagher, and with more distant precedents such as Bob Thompson, Beauford Delaney and William H. Johnson.\n\nOfili was established through exhibitions by Charles Saatchi at his gallery in north London and the travelling exhibition \"Sensation\" (1997), becoming recognised as one of the few British artists of African / Caribbean descent to break through as a member of the Young British Artists group. Ofili has also had numerous solo shows since the early 1990s, including at the Serpentine Gallery. In 1998, Ofili won the Turner Prize, and in 2003 he was selected to represent Britain at the Venice Biennale of that year, where his work for the British Pavilion was done in collaboration with the architect David Adjaye.\n\nIn 1992 he won a scholarship that allowed him to travel to Zimbabwe. Ofili studied cave paintings there, which had some effect on his style.\n\nBetween 1995 and 2005, Ofili focused on a series of watercolors, each about 9½ by 6½ inches and produced in a single sitting. They predominantly feature heads of men and women, as well as some studies of flowers and birds. Ofili's paintings also make reference to blaxploitation films and gangsta rap, seeking to question racial and sexual stereotypes in a humorous way. In a series of faces that Ofili called \"Harems\", each arrangement consists of one man with as many as four women on each side of him.\n\nOfili's work is often built up in layers of paint, resin, glitter, dung (mainly elephant) and other materials to create a collage. Though Ofili's detractors often state that he \"splatters\" elephant dung on his pictures, this is inaccurate: he sometimes applies it directly to the canvas in the form of dried spherical lumps, and sometimes, in the same form, uses it as varnished foot-like supports on which the paintings stand.\n\nOfili has been founder and prime mover behind the short-lived \"Freeness Project\". This project involved the coming together of artists, producers and musicians of minority ethnic groups (Asian and African) in an attempt to expose the music that may be unheard in other spaces. Freeness allowed the creativity of unsigned contemporary British ethnic minority artists to be heard. The result of months of tours to 10 cities in the UK resulted in \"Freeness Volume 1\" - a compilation of works that were shown during the tour.\n\nAfter relocating to Trinidad in 2005, Ofili began a series of blue paintings inspired by the \"Jab Jab\" or \"blue devils\" who participate in the Trinidad and Tobago Carnival, and the Expressionist group of German and Russian artists, \"Der Blaue Reiter.\" These paintings often employed the use of a silver, acrylic background with layers of dark oil pigment on top. Later iterations of these works were shown at Ofili's solo show \"Chris Ofili: Day and Night\" at The New Museum of New York which were installed in a very dimly lit room, causing viewers to adjust their eyes to the darkness in order to see the paintings.\n\nOfili was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2017 New Year Honours for services to art.\n\nOfili's work was featured in a museum in the 1995 exhibition \"Brilliant! New Art from London\" at the Walker Art Center. Significant solo exhibitions include the Arts Club of Chicago (2010), Kestnergesellschaft, Hanover (2006), the Studio Museum in Harlem, New York (2005), and Southampton City Art Gallery (1998). In 2010, Tate Britain presented the most extensive exhibition of his work to date. In 2014, The New Museum in New York presented the first, major solo show of Ofili's work in the U.S. titled \"Chris Ofili: Night and Day\".\n\nOne of his paintings, \"The Holy Virgin Mary\", a depiction of the Virgin Mary, was at issue in a lawsuit between the mayor of New York City, Rudy Giuliani, and the Brooklyn Museum of Art when it was exhibited there in 1999 as a part of the \"Sensation\" exhibit. The painting depicted a Black Madonna surrounded by images from blaxploitation movies and close-ups of female genitalia cut from pornographic magazines, and elephant dung. These were formed into shapes reminiscent of the cherubim and seraphim commonly depicted in images of the Immaculate Conception and the Assumption of Mary. Following the scandal surrounding this painting, Bernard Goldberg ranked Ofili No. 86 in \"100 People Who Are Screwing Up America\". Red Grooms showed his support of the artist by purchasing one of Ofili's paintings in 1999, even after Giuliani famously exclaimed, \"There’s nothing in the First Amendment that supports horrible and disgusting projects!” The painting was owned by David Walsh and was on display at the Museum of Old and New Art in Hobart, Tasmania. Steven A. Cohen then owned it for three years and donated the painting to the Museum of Modern Art.\n\n\"The Upper Room\" is an installation of 13 paintings of rhesus macaque monkeys by Ofili in a specially designed room. It was bought by the Tate Gallery in 2005 and caused controversy as Ofili was on the board of the Tate Trustees at the time of the purchase. In 2006 the Charity Commission censured the Tate for this purchase.\n\nHis \"Orgena\", a glittery portrait of a black woman created by the artist for his Turner Prize-winning exhibit at the Tate in 1998 was sold to an American collector for a record GBP 1.8 million, over its GBP 1 million high estimate, at Christie's London in 2010. In 2015, art collector David Walsh sold Ofili’s 8-foot-tall \"The Holy Virgin Mary\" for 2.9 million pounds at Christie’s.\n\n"}
{"id": "43471488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43471488", "title": "Coign and livery", "text": "Coign and livery\n\nCoign and livery or coyne and livery () in Gaelic Ireland was the free entertainment which a chief exacted from his subjects for his servants and followers. Originally in Brehon law it took the form of a feast held when the chief passed through a subject's lands. By the late medieval period it was often an oppressive charge to billet and supply the chief's professional soldiers (kern and gallowglasses), enforced by those same soldiers. It was the most important of the exactions which lesser chiefs resented of their superiors. The surrender and regrant and composition imposed by the English during the Tudor conquest of Ireland sought to abolish Gaelic customs of chiefship and replace all exactions with a single rent charged on land holdings. This was accordingly supported by the lesser chiefs, but opposed by the over chiefs such as Gerald FitzGerald, 11th Earl of Kildare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12249967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12249967", "title": "Common Community Commission", "text": "Common Community Commission\n\nThe Common Community Commission (, ) is responsible for Brussels community matters that are common to both the French Community and the Flemish Community and for institutions that fall within the competencies of the Communities but do not belong exclusively to either Community in the Brussels-Capital Region of Belgium. Examples of this include the bilingual hospitals in the Brussels Region.\n\nThe primary responsibilities of the Common Community Commission are health policy (curative and preventive medicine) and assistance to individuals (protection of youth, social welfare, aid to families, immigrant assistance services, etc...).\n\nThe Common Community Commission is composed of a council, the United Assembly, and an executive, the United College. The United Assembly consists of the members of both the Council of the Flemish Community Commission and the Assembly of the French Community Commission, and is equal to the membership of the Brussels Parliament (which is a regional, rather than a community parliament). The United College comprises all members of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region, except the Secretaries of State. The United College is presided over by the Minister-President of the Brussels Region, who only has an advisory vote. As a result, there are two French-speaking and two Flemish members with the right to vote.\n\nThe United Assembly can legislate by ordinance. In order to adopt an ordinance, a majority of its members must be present and an absolute majority of the votes cast must be in favour. However, there must be also be a majority in each of the two language groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "42434081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42434081", "title": "Corruption in Sri Lanka", "text": "Corruption in Sri Lanka\n\nPetty corruption remains a problem in Sri Lanka, and weak whistleblower protections have negative impacts on citizen's willingness to stand up against corruption. Despite some recent institutional reforms by the government in order to fight corruption, whistleblower protections need to be improved.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 91st place out of 180 countries. \n\n"}
{"id": "32175613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32175613", "title": "District of Columbia Compensated Emancipation Act", "text": "District of Columbia Compensated Emancipation Act\n\nThe District of Columbia Compensated Emancipation Act, or simply Compensated Emancipation Act, was a law that ended slavery in Washington, D.C. by paying slave owners for releasing their slaves. Although not written by him, the act was signed by U.S. President Abraham Lincoln on April 16, 1862. April 16 is now celebrated in the city as Emancipation Day.\n\nProposals to emancipate all slaves in the District of Columbia date back to at least 1839. In 1848, New York Representative Daniel Gott gave an impassioned speech to the House of Representatives against the proposed emancipation of slaves in the District of Columbia. Gott described the actions of abolitionists of the northern states as \"impertinent interference with the slaves\" and \"impertinently intruding themselves into the domestic and delicate concerns of the South, understanding neither the malady to be corrected nor the remedy to be applied.\"\n\nIn 1849, when he was a Representative, Lincoln introduced a plan to eliminate slavery in Washington, D.C., by compensated emancipation; the bill failed.\n\nIn December 1861, a bill was introduced in Congress for the abolition of slavery in Washington, D.C. Written by Thomas Marshall Key, and sponsored by Senator Henry Wilson of Massachusetts, the bill passed the Senate on April 3 by a vote of 29 in favor and 14 against. It passed the House of Representatives on April 11. Lincoln had wanted the bill to include a provision to make emancipation effective only after a favorable vote from the citizens of the District of Columbia. He also wanted the bill to delay implementation until after a certain amount of time after the bill was signed. Neither provision was included in the bill. Lincoln signed the bill on April 16, 1862, amid ongoing Congressional debate over an emancipation plan for the border states. Following the bill's passage, Lincoln proposed several changes to the act, which were approved by the legislature.\n\nThe passage of the Compensated Emancipation Act came nearly nine months before the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation. The act, which set aside $1 million, immediately emancipated slaves in Washington, D.C., giving Union slaveholders up to $300 per freed slave. An additional $100,000 allocated by the law was used to pay each newly freed slave $100 if he or she chose to leave the United States and colonize in places such as Haiti or Liberia.\n\nIn Washington, D.C., April 16 has been celebrated as Emancipation Day since 1866. An annual parade was held to commemorate the signing of the act until 1901, when a lack of financial and organizational support forced the tradition to stop; it restarted in 2002. In 2000, the Council of the District of Columbia made April 16 a private holiday—or one on which city employees are not given a free day off—and on July 9, 2004, council member Vincent Orange proposed making the day a public holiday. 2005 marked the first year that Emancipation Day was celebrated as an official city holiday in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe emancipation plan relied on a three-person Emancipation Commission to distribute the allotted funding. In order to receive compensation, former slaveholders were required to provide written evidence of their ownership, as well as state their loyalty to the Union. Most of the petitioners were white, but some blacks also filed for compensation, having once bought their family members away from other owners. In the end, almost all of the $1 million appropriated in the act had been spent.\n\nAs a result of the act's passage, 3,185 slaves were freed. However, the older fugitive slave laws were still applied to slaves who had run from Maryland to Washington, D.C. The slaves were still subject to the laws, which supposedly applied only to states, until their 1864 repeal.\n\nAlthough the compensated emancipation model was not later adapted by the U.S. government, the act signified the forthcoming demise of slavery in the United States. The act was the only compensated emancipation plan enacted in the United States.\n\nThe act has one characteristic that remains to this day. When the limit to file income tax returns in the United States, April 15, falls on a Sunday, the due date would normally be advanced to Monday, April 16. However, since April 16 is a holiday in the District of Columbia, it applies to IRS offices there as well, thus the due date is advanced for the entire country to Tuesday, April 17.\n\nFollowing Lincoln's concerns over the version of the bill that he signed, the U.S. Senate approved a supplement to the original Compensated Emancipation Act. The amendment passed on July 12, 1862, allowing former slaves to petition for compensation if their masters had not done so. Under the supplemental act, claims made by blacks and whites were weighted equally, whereas previously, the testimonies of blacks—enslaved or free—were discarded if challenged by a white person.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1337133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1337133", "title": "Ethel Voynich", "text": "Ethel Voynich\n\nEthel Lilian Voynich, \"née\" Boole (11 May 1864 – 27 July 1960) was an Irish novelist and musician, and a supporter of several revolutionary causes. She was born in Cork, but grew up in England. Voynich was a significant figure, not only on the late Victorian literary scene, but also in Russian émigré circles. She is best known for her novel \"The Gadfly\", which became hugely popular in her lifetime, especially in Russia.\n\nEthel Lilian Boole was born on 11 May 1864, at Lichfield Cottage, Blackrock, Ballintemple, Cork, the youngest daughter to the mathematician George Boole (father of Boolean logic), and the feminist philosopher Mary Everest, who was the niece of George Everest and a writer for \"Crank\", an early-20th-century periodical. Her father died six months after she was born. Her mother returned to her native England with her daughters, and was able to live off a small government pension until she was appointed librarian at Queen's College, London. When she was eight, Ethel contracted erysipelas, a disease associated with poor sanitation. Her mother decided to send her to live in Lancashire with her brother, believing that it would be good for her health. Described as \"a religious fanatic and sadist\", who regularly beat his children, he apparently forced Ethel to play the piano for hours on end. Ethel returned to London at the age of ten. She became withdrawn, dressing in black and calling herself \"Lily\".\n\nAt the age of eighteen, she gained access to a legacy. This allowed her to study piano and musical composition at the Hochschule für Musik in Berlin, which she attended between 1882 and 85. During this period she became increasingly attracted to revolutionary politics. Back in London she learned Russian from Sergei Kravchinski, known as Stepniak who encouraged her to go to Russia. From 1887 to 1889 she worked as a governess in St. Petersburg, where she stayed with Kravchinski's sister-in-law, Preskovia Karauloff. Through her, she became associated with the revolutionary Narodniks. After her return to the UK, she settled in London, where she became involved in pro-Revolutionary activity. With Kravchinski she founded the Society of Friends of Russian Freedom, and helped to edit \"Free Russia\", the Narodniks's English-language journal.\n\nIn 1890 she met Michał Habdank-Wojnicz, a Polish revolutionary who had escaped from Siberia. Soon he also became Ethel Boole's life-partner. By 1895, they were living together and she was calling herself Mrs. Voynich. They married in 1902. In 1904 he anglicised his name to Wilfrid Michael Voynich and became an antiquarian book dealer, giving his name eventually to the Voynich manuscript.\n\nIn 1897 she published \"The Gadfly\", which was an immediate international success. She published three more novels \"Jack Raymond\" (1901), \"Olive Latham\" (1904) and \"An Interrupted Friendship\" (1910), but none matched the popularity of her first book.\n\nThe Voyniches emigrated to the United States in 1920, after Wilfred had moved the main base of his book business to New York. She concentrated more on music from this point on, working in a music school, but she continued her writing career as a translator, translating from Russian, Polish and French. A final novel, \"Put off thy Shoes\", was published in 1945.\n\nVoynich was unaware of the vast sales of \"The Gadfly\" in the Soviet Union until she was visited in New York by a Russian diplomat in 1955, who told her how highly regarded she was in the country. The following year Adlai Stevenson secured an agreement for the payment of $15,000 royalties to her.\n\nAccording to the British journalist Robin Bruce Lockhart, Sidney Reilly – a Russian-born operative employed by the émigré intelligence network of Scotland Yard's Special Branch – met Ethel Voynich in London in 1895. Lockhart, whose father, R.H. Bruce Lockhart knew Reilly, claims that Reilly and Voynich had a sexual liaison and voyaged to Italy together. During their romance Reilly is said to have bared his soul and revealed to her the story of his espionage activities. After their brief affair, Voynich published \"The Gadfly\", whose central character Arthur Burton was based on Reilly. In 2004, writer Andrew Cook suggested that Reilly may have been reporting on Voynich and her political activities to William Melville of the Metropolitan Police Special Branch. In 2016, new evidence surfaced from archived communication between Anne Fremantle, who attempted a biography of Ethel Voynich, and a relative of Ethel's on the Hinton side. The evidence demonstrates that a liaison of some sort took place between Reilly and her in Florence, 1895.\n\nShe is most famous for her first novel \"The Gadfly\", first published in 1897 in the United States (June) and Britain (September), about the struggles of an international revolutionary in Italy. This novel was very popular in the Soviet Union and was the top bestseller and compulsory reading there, where it was seen as ideologically useful; for similar reasons, the novel has been popular in the People's Republic of China as well. By the time of Voynich's death \"The Gadfly\" had sold an estimated 2,500,000 copies in the Soviet Union and had been made into two Russian movies, first in 1928 in Soviet Georgia (\"Krazana\") and then again in 1955.\n\nThe 1955 film of the novel, by the Soviet director Aleksandr Fajntsimmer is noted for the fact that composer Dmitri Shostakovich wrote the score (see \"The Gadfly Suite\"). Along with some other excerpts, the \"Romance\" movement has since become very popular. Shostakovich's \"Gadfly\" theme was also used in the 1980s, in the BBC TV series \"Reilly, Ace of Spies\". In 1980 the novel was adapted again as a TV miniseries \"The Gadfly\", featuring Sergei Bondarchuk as Father Montanelli. Various other adaptations exist, including at least three operas and two ballets.\n\nVoynich's other four novels never achieved the same success as \"The Gadfly\", but two of them extended its narrative. \"An Interrupted Friendship\" (1910) elaborates on \"The Gadfly\"'s protagonist's backstory, and \"Put Off Thy Shoes\" (1945), Voynich's last novel, further focuses on the life of the protagonist's family and ancestors; a \"lengthy, multi-generational chronicle\" set in the 18th century.\n\nHer second novel, \"Jack Raymond\" (1901), was quickly followed by her third, \"Olive Latham\" (1904)\".\" Nearly a decade later, Voynich took a hiatus from writing and focused on music.\n\nVoynich began composing music around 1910. She joined the Society of Women Musicians during World War I. After she and her husband moved to New York, she devoted herself much more to music, creating many adaptations and transcriptions of existing works. In 1931 she published an edited volume of Chopin's letters. From 1933 to 1943 she worked at the Pius X School of Liturgical Music in Manhattan. While there she composed a number of cantatas and other works that were performed at the college, including \"Babylon\", \"Jerusalem\", \"Epitaph in Ballad Form\" and \"The Submerged City\". She also researched the history of music, compiling detailed commentaries on music of various eras. Most of her music remains unpublished and is held at the Library of Congress. Recent evaluation in 2005 of the cantata \"Babylon\" by an eminent English composer was not very favourable. 'The general impression is of amateurism and gaucheness'.\n\nA minor planet 2032 Ethel discovered in 1970 by Soviet astronomer Tamara Mikhailovna Smirnova is named after her.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1900863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1900863", "title": "Ethiopian general election, 2005", "text": "Ethiopian general election, 2005\n\nEthiopia held general elections on May 15, 2005, for seats in both its national House of Peoples' Representatives and in four regional government councils. Under pressure from the international community, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi promised that this election would be proof that more democracy would come in this multi-ethnic nation; international elections observers from the European Union (EU) and the U.S.-based Carter Center were present to observe the results. This election succeeded in attracting about 90% of the registered voters to the polls. A government ban on protests was imposed throughout the election period.\n\nEU observers remarked on the \"significantly enlarged freedoms for political campaigning in comparison to previous elections\". Political parties campaigned actively, and opposition parties appeared to be increasingly active in the rural areas. The observer mission described the atmosphere \"during the campaign was calm, culminating in two massive, peaceful rallies in Addis Ababa, one by the EPRDF and one by the opposition.\"\n\nDespite this, opposition parties alleged numerous cases of intimidation, and arrests of its supporters. While the EU observers could not investigate all of the alleged cases, it did confirm those it investigated. International human rights groups likewise cataloged a number of cases of human rights violations. However, the EU observers wrote in their final report, they \"recorded no arrests of EPRDF supporters for campaign offences.\"\n\nTowards the close of the campaigning, the language became more vicious, with each side accusing the other of numerous violations of the campaigning rules. \"Campaign rhetoric became insulting,\" the EU observer's report noted, then continued:\nThe most extreme example of this came from the Deputy Prime Minister, Addisu Legesse, who, in a public debate on 15 April, compared the opposition parties with the \"Interhamwe\" militia, which perpetrated the 1994 Rwandan genocide. The Prime Minister made the same comparison on 5 May in relation to the CUD. The EPRDF made the same associations during its free slots on radio and TV. The opposition coalition UEDF then used the comparison against the government in a TV spot showing footage of the movie \"Hotel Rwanda\". Such rhetoric is unacceptable in a democratic election.\n\nEarly results showed the opposition with a big lead, sweeping all of the contested seats in the capital Addis both in the race for parliamentary as well as local government. By the afternoon of 16 May, the opposition claimed it was halfway towards winning a majority in the national parliament with only about a third of the constituencies reporting complete results. Later that day, trailing badly in the preliminary report covering just under 200 seats released by the National Election Board, the ruling Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) announced that it had won more than 317 seats out of 547, while conceding that opposition parties won all 23 seats in the capital city Addis Ababa. The two major opposition parties, the Coalition for Unity and Democracy (CUD) and the United Ethiopian Democratic Forces (UEDF) claimed on that same day that they had won 185 of the approximately 200 seats for which the National Election Board of Ethiopia (NEBE) had released preliminary results. That was a significant improvement over the 12 seats the opposition had in the previous parliament.\n\nBy law, the NEBE was required to announce the official results on 8 June. However, the vote tallying process was jeopardized when the opposition claimed that the Addis Ababa vote was rigged and during the evening of 16 May, the Prime Minister declared a state of emergency, outlawed any public gathering, assumed direct command of the security forces, and replaced the capital city police with federal police and special forces drawn from elite army units. The NEBE, simultaneously, ordered the vote tallying process to stop, an order which was not rescinded for nearly a week, yet another action against which the opposition and the independent election monitors strongly objected.\n\nThe next official report from the NEBE, released on 27 May, showed that the EPRDF had won 209 seats, and affiliated parties 12 more. The report indicated the opposition parties had won 142 seats. \"These results are provisional, and these results could change because we are looking into complaints by some of the parties,\" said NEBE spokesman Getahun Amogne.\n\nObservers from the European Union afterwards \"assessed the closing and counting processes negatively in almost half of urban polling stations observed, a very high figure for international observers to record, and even worse in rural polling stations observed.\" Counting was slow, a remarkably high number of ballots were ruled invalid, and there was a lack of transparency in the results. \"Result sheets were only displayed at 29 per cent of rural polling stations observed and 36 per cent of urban polling stations observed at the completion of counting. In 25 per cent of polling stations observed, political party representatives were not provided with a copy of the results.\"\n\nThe situation only deteriorated with the following day, according to the observers, \nstarting with a blanket ban, issued immediately after the end of voting, on freedom of assembly in the capital. Media coverage also worsened. State media published statements by government/EPRDF personnel claiming victory in the elections, despite the fact that counting was still underway, but refused to publish opposition statements. Incidents involving students started on the night of 5 June and extended on 6 and 7 June with hundreds being arrested. During a demonstration in Addis Ababa on 8 June, security forces killed at least 36 citizens and in the aftermath arrested thousands of persons, mostly linked to the opposition, who were accused of spreading \"political unrest\".\n\nThe CUD lodged complaints in 139 constituencies, the UEDF lodged 89 complaints, while the EPRDF has raised concerns over irregularities in more than 50 seats. Including the complaints lodged by small parties, complaints concerning the results in 299 parliamentary seats were lodged. According to an official of the NEBE, political parties had until June 3 to provide evidence of fraud, or their complaints would be dismissed. However investigations led to elections being re-run at a minimum of 16 voting stations, and affecting elections for at least six seats. Writing in November of that year, scholar Christopher Clapham noted that \"the official results of the elections are both complex in themselves, and deeply affected by fraud\". On one hand, he pointed out that the EPRDF lost heavily in those cities of Ethiopia which were bellwethers of public opinion; on the other, \n\nProvisional results were scheduled to be released on May 23, but the need to investigate claims of voting irregularities and disruptions in two southern regions — Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples Region and Oromia — delayed the release of these results until June 8, the date originally scheduled for releasing the official results. When the ruling party was unofficially reported the winner of the election, demonstrations protesting alleged election fraud broke out, and continued into June. Hundreds of students were arrested in at least nine cities, including Gondar, Bure, Bahir Dar, Debre Marqos, Dessie and Awassa for demonstrating despite a month-old ban on protests imposed on the government. At the same time, security forces arrested dozens of locally prominent CUD members in Gondar, Dessie, Wondo Genet, Kombolcha and Jinka; unconfirmed reports of arrests following a similar pattern came from several other towns. On June 8, police shot 42 people gathering at the Piazza and Merkato markets of Addis Ababa. The government afterwards stated that an appropriate level of force was used and accused the CUD of fomenting dissent; the CUD denied these accusations, and claimed that the government was attempting to distract attention from election fraud. This led to the leaders of the CUD, including head Hailu Shawul, being put under house arrest while hundreds of security forces patrolled the streets of the capital.\n\nOn July 8, the NEBE released the first official results for 307 of the 547 national parliamentary seats. Of the 307 seats, the EPRDF had won 139, while CUD and UEDF won 93 and 42, respectively. Smaller parties and independent candidates won the remaining 33 seats. However, Berhanu Nega, vice-chairman of the CUD, had criticized the process on July 20, claiming that \"The investigation process was a complete failure. Our representatives and witnesses have been harassed, threatened, barred and killed upon their return from the hearings.\"\n\nMeanwhile, the NEBE investigated voting fraud and other irregularities, while also arranging new polls to resolve some disputes. On August 9, official results were released, acknowledging that the ruling EPRDF had won 296 of the total 524 seats — about 56% — enabling it to form a government, while its allied parties won 22 seats. The UEDF won 52 seats. Berhanu said his party, which had officially won 109 seats, was debating whether they would challenge the results in court. Repeat elections were scheduled for August 21 in 31 areas where either irregularities were reported or results were challenged.\n\nOpposition parties had decided to boycott the related August 21 elections in the Somali Region. The CUD withdrew 10 of the 17 candidates it was fielding in Somali region, while the Western Somali Democratic Party, the Somali Democratic Alliance Forces and Del Wabe People's Democratic Movement who had planned to field 43 candidates for the Federal Parliamentary Assembly and 273 candidates for the regional parliament in the regional capital of Jijiga, also announced that they would boycott this election.\n\nOn September 5, the NEBE released its final results, in which the EPRDF retained its control of the government with 327 seats, or 59% of the vote. Opposition parties won 174 seats, or 32% of the vote. The CUD alone won 20% of the vote.\n\nProtests of the results, led by Coalition for Democracy and Unity, began on November 1, 2005, and have prompted more than 60,000 arrests. Live gunfire from government forces has been directed at protesters and bystanders, killing at least 42. A number of policemen were also killed suggesting that violence was not all on the side of the state.\n\nOn October 18, 2006, the draft report of a 10-member public inquiry into election-related unrests was released to Associated Press (AP). It concludes that a total of 199 people (193 civilians and six policemen) were killed and 763 were injured, a significantly higher figure than the Ethiopian government's claim that 61 civilians and seven policemen were killed. The vice chairman of the inquiry, judge Wolde-Michael Meshesha, who fled Ethiopia a month prior after he had received anonymous death threats, told AP that \"this was a massacre ... these demonstrators were unarmed yet the majority died from shots to the head.\" He added that the government attempted to pressure and intimidate members of the inquiry after learning about its controversial finding. The Ethiopian government did not immediately comment on the leaked report, but the next day, it told BBC that its contents were \"hearsay.\" The European Union's chief observer during the elections, Ana Maria Gomes, stated that the draft report \"only confirms what we have said in our report on the elections,\" and \"that indeed there were massive human rights violations.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17464223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17464223", "title": "Flavio Alves", "text": "Flavio Alves\n\nFlávio Pimenta Alves (born 30 November 1969) is a Brazilian writer, screenwriter, and film director resident in America since 1998. His movies consistently feature elderly characters as protagonists. He is best known for the film \"Tom in America\", starring Burt Young and Sally Kirkland.\n\nAlves was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and served the Brazilian navy for several years before coming to America in 1997. He was granted political asylum in the United States in 1998 based on political opinion and sexual orientation after he wrote the book, \"Toque de Silêncio\" (\"Call to Silence\", 1997), describing his life as a gay man in the Brazilian navy. His request was granted because, according to Alves, he received death threats upon publishing his book. Although various human rights organizations, LGBT activists, and former São Paulo mayor Marta Suplicy supported his claim, it has also divided the Brazilian gay community. He attended Columbia University in New York City, where he earned an undergraduate degree in Political Science. In the early 2000s he worked as an assistant for then-Congressman Anthony Weiner (D-NY) and then-New York Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY).\n\nIn 2007, Alves left politics and enrolled at New York University to study film production. While there he wrote and directed, \"Even in My Dreams\", which received the Technisphere Award from NYU for best student film, and was screened at a variety of film festivals around the world. The film was also the winner of the Golden Palm Award at the 2009 Mexico International Film Festival, and the Golden Ace Award at the 2009 Las Vegas International Film Festival. In June 2010, Flavio released his short film \"The Secret Friend\", starring Viola Harris and Siobhan Fallon in the major roles.\nThe film received multiple awards and nominations after its premiere at the Palm Springs International Film Festival in 2010, where it was chosen as \"Best of the Fest\". \n\nAlves’ most recent film, \"Tom in America\", starring Academy Award nominees, Burt Young and Sally Kirkland, has been screened at over 140 film festivals worldwide, and was also featured on the cable network HereTV. Flavio is currently in post-production for his upcoming film, \"The Garden Left Behind\", starring Michael Madsen and Ed Asner. \"The Garden Left Behind\" is Alves’s first feature length film as a director and it is scheduled to be released Spring 2019. \n\nIn 2018, Alves was selected by the Film Society of Lincoln Center to the Artist Academy. The program is designed to support the next generation of filmmakers from a variety of backgrounds as they develop their careers and build audiences within the film community. \n\nWhile in pre-production for his upcoming film, \"The Garden Left Behind\", Alves and his team pioneered the use of eBay as a crowdfunding platform, where they raised more than $100,000. The unprecedented success experienced during this campaign revamped typical crowdfunding methods. The film became the first independent film to be funded substantially through donations and sales via eBay.\n\nFlavio lives in Forest Hills, New York. In April 2010, Alves became a US citizen. As of 2013, he has been a member of the National Board of Review. In 2012, Grupo Gay da Bahia, the oldest LGBTQ advocacy association in Brazil, awarded Alves, among 21 other militants, an honorary title recognizing his sacrifices and contributions to the LGBTQ community.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42226487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42226487", "title": "Humming Heads", "text": "Humming Heads\n\nHumming Heads Inc. is an EIP (Enterprise Information Protection) software developer based in Japan.\n\nHumming Heads Inc. was founded in 1999 to focus on the computer security. It shipped its first product, Security Platform (SeP) in 2001, as an anti-virus software. Taking SOX seriously, Humming Heads introduced functionality preventing unauthorized access and confidential information theft from the electronic systems. Further Humming Heads came with its own implementation of the desktop file manager. In 2017 the firm entered the US market.\n\nSeP prevents unauthorized information access from the PC as well as from the external devices. SeP client is controlling all the storage devices, and automatically performs operations like encryption. It also keeps log of the user operations, which is stored at the server side and can be analyzed if needed. One of important features of SeP is that it has marginal effect in client's PC performance.\nOriginally SeP is available in Japanese language. Chinese and English versions of the SeP software are under development.\n\n"}
{"id": "31943896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31943896", "title": "Jay Golden", "text": "Jay Golden\n\nJay S. Golden, PhD, MPhil, Cantab is Vice Chancellor at East Carolina University (ECU) and a tenured full professor of engineering while holding a secondary appointment in supply chain. Dr. Golden oversees research, economic development and engagement at ECU which, is the only university in North Carolina with a medical school, dental school and a college of engineering. An institution of the University of North Carolina system, ECU is home to approximately 30,000 students and is located in Greenville, N.C.\n\nGolden was born in Los Angeles, California. In college he played lacrosse both for Arizona State University and for Cambridge University and was a member of Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity. Golden is married with two daughters. Prior to his academic career Golden served seven years as a police office, hazardous materials specialist and environmental crimes detective. He received a life saving medal, two meritorious medals, two distinguished service medals the International Association of Chiefs of Police J. Stannard Baker award and the Sons of the American Revolution Law Enforcement Commendation Medal. \n\nGolden received his doctorate in engineering from the University of Cambridge (Division of Geotechnical, Petroleum and Sustainable Engineering) under the supervision of Professor Peter Guthrie, Royal Academy of Engineering and Order of the British Empire. Golden is an alumnus of Wolfson College at the University of Cambridge. \n\nPrior to his PhD, he earned his master’s degree in environmental engineering and sustainable development as part of the first cohort of an international joint program between the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Cambridge (CMI Institute). Golden also holds an Organizational Master of Project Management from Stanford University and an MLE from Harvard University, as well as a bachelor’s degree in management.\n\nDuke University: Dr. Golden was an Associate Professor of the Practice for Sustainable Systems Analysis at the Nicholas School of the Environment and Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University. Golden was the faculty director of the Business & Environment graduate program and served as the Director of the Duke Center for Sustainability & Commerce at Duke University Golden’s teaching and research focus on \"examining organizational and technology intervention strategies in regards to regional and global social and environmental impacts from population and consumptive patterns\".\n\nArizona State University: Prior to September 2010, Golden was an Assistant Professor and Honors Faculty in the School of Sustainability at Arizona State University (2006–2010) after its formation from the Center for Environmental Studies (2003–2006). In 2006 he founded and became the Director of The National Center of Excellence on SMART Innovations for Urban Climate & Energy and in 2008 he was the Founder and Co-Director of The Sustainability Consortium, both positions held until his transition to Duke in 2010. Golden also held a joint appointment with the School of Civil, Environmental and Sustainable Engineering (2007–2010).\n\nIn 2017 Dr. Golden was appointed to the EPA Board of Scientific Counselors. He was inducted into Phi Kappa Phi Honors Society in 2017.\n\nIn 2012, Scientific American listed the Sustainability Index developed by Dr. Golden and the Sustainability Consortium which he co-founded and co-directed as one of the Top 10 World Changing Ideas. In September 2009, Golden received the Faculty Pioneer Award from the Center for Business Education at the Aspen Institute. The Aspen Institute’s Faculty Pioneer Award is the \"Oscars of the business school world\" according to The Financial Times. Award recipients are recognized for demonstrating \"leadership and risk-taking in integrating ethical, environmental and social issues into the business curriculum.\"\n\nGolden was recognized as a \"Rising Star\" for his commitment to \"developing curriculum that fosters multidisciplinary approaches to solving pressing sustainability imperatives for business and society\" and his roles as director of ASU’s Certificate of Sustainable Technologies and Management program and founder and co-director of the summer Sustainable Energy Fellowship program with colleagues from MIT, Cornell, Duke and the University of Michigan. Also highlighted by the Aspen Institute was the research published by Golden and his Sustainability Consortium, the results of which have \"provided a platform for the development of a more holistic approach to quantifying the sustainability of consumer products that accounts for all phases of a product’s life cycle.\"\n\nIn December 2009, Golden was designated Number 23 of the 100 Most Influential People in Business Ethics by Ethisphere Magazine for his work (as Co-Director of the Sustainability Consortium) with Wal-Mart on their sustainability index initiative. This recognition was given to individuals that had a \"significant impact in the realm of business ethics over the course of the year [2009]\".\n\nGolden was also awarded an Industrial Ecology Fellowship by AT&T in 2004.\n\nGolden is best known for his translational work on Sustainable Systems exploring the theoretical underpinnings and drivers on the science of sustainability and applying those theories and models to intervention strategies. Golden's research worked to build on the late Jay Forrester of MIT and members of his lineage at MIT including Donela Meadows, one of the lead authors of Limits to Growth. His early work was focused on exploring the dynamics of radiative forces on urban infrastructure and the resultant impacts to energy, climate and environmental systems. His later and current work has been focused on Production-Consumption Systems and the role that institutions play using control theory and process life cycle assessment modeling. Golden in partnership with Dr. Robert Handfield, the Bank of American Distinguished Professor of Supply Chain Management at North Carolina State University have co-authored multiple reports to Congress on the environmental and economic impacts of the emergent biobased economy. \n\nGolden who has published over 150 articles has been a Guest Editor and author for the Sustainable Sciences section of the Proceedings of the National Academies of Sciences (PNAS). He has been published in Nature on the Blue Economy, COES, Journal of Industrial Ecology, International Journal of Sustainable Energy and has served as a co-editor for multiple peer-reviewed journals. He has testified before Congress and chaired Sustainable Engineering workshops and conferences for the National Academy of Engineering.\n\nGolden has worked at informal settlements in Africa as part of a Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Grant on Supercritical Oxidation to transform human wastes into potable water and energy. He has been funded by NSF, NIH/CDC, TRB, NASA, USDA, GSA, US EPA, NIST and numerous foundations and industry. Golden has also authored publications and guidebooks on Life Cycle Assessment Modeling for the United Nations Environment Programme. \n\nDr. Golden has given over 100 invited presentations including to the Chinese Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering in Korea, Royal Academy of Engineering, AAAS symposium on Sustainability Science, American Meteorological Society, Pew Center, NSF and to numerous companies and board of directors throughout the globe.\nThe Sustainability Consortium was founded in 2009 by Jay Golden (ASU) and Jon Johnson (University of Arkansas) and continues to be jointly administered by the two universities today. Walmart Stores Inc. provided the initial financial investment that allowed the creation of the Sustainability Consortium and since then several other large corporations have joined (including companies like McDonald's, Disney and Coca-Cola).\n\nRegarding the history of the Sustainability Consortium, Golden said \"It became very clear to us that no one researcher, no one institution, could do that[quantify the sustainability of products] because you're dealing with geographies around the world and with various sciences – physical, life, and engineering – and that required a multidisciplinary approach. So we outlined a proposal to Walmart to develop a consortium of academic researchers from institutions to think through the process and try to bring it to life based on the best available sound science and engineering principles available.\"\n\nWalmart’s goal in creating the Consortium was to \"develop a global database of information on the lifecycle of products – from raw materials to disposal\" in order to develop a \"worldwide sustainable product index\" which would aid in the creation of a \"simple rating for consumers about the sustainability of products\".\n\nWhen asked in July 2009 about the creation of the Sustainability Consortium Golden said \"Today an idea has come to reality, and it is even more exciting to envision the outcomes of the next part of this effort, as we create the science, technologies and strategies that vastly transform how businesses operate and how sustainability is infused into our everyday life.\"\n\nGolden emphasized the \"transparency\" of the research being done by the Consortium, with information on product lifecycle and consumer research available to all companies regardless of their membership status.\n\nIn 2004, during his time at Arizona State University, Golden created ASU’s Certificate of Sustainable Technologies and Management program. He also founded and co-directed the Sustainable Energy Fellowship, a summer program in partnership with MIT, Cornell, Univ. of Michigan, ASU and Duke that exposed undergraduate students from around the country to \"research and education in energy production, conversion, storage and sources that are environmentally friendly and renewable\" educating them on \"critical sustainability, energy, and climate change challenges faced by business.\"\n\nAlso during his time at ASU, Golden served as a Special Advisor to the Mayor of Phoenix on Sustainable Technologies, a Special Advisor for Sustainability to the management team at the Dial Corporation and helped found the ASU chapter of Engineers Without Borders. Golden was the founder and director of the EPA-designated National Center of Excellence on SMART (Sustainable Materials & Renewable Technologies) Innovations at ASU. The Center \"partners with industries and governments worldwide to develop a new generation of strategies and technologies to address climate-energy system impacts\" with a focus on \"engineering innovations for sustainable materials and renewable technologies\". \n\n"}
{"id": "30873169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873169", "title": "La Amistad International Park", "text": "La Amistad International Park\n\nThe La Amistad International Park, or in Spanish , formerly the La Amistad National Park, is a Transboundary Protected Area in Latin America, management of which is shared between Costa Rica (Caribbean La Amistad and Pacific La Amistad Conservation Areas) and Panama, following a recommendation by UNESCO after the park's inclusion in the World Heritage Site list.\n\nThe park area is equally split between Costa Rica and Panama, as part of the former \"La Amistad Reserves\" of the Talamanca mountain range. It covers 401,000 ha of tropical forest and is the largest nature reserve in Central America; together with a 15 km buffer zone, it represents a major biodiversity resource at a regional (ca 20% of the region's species diversity) and global level.\n\nThis is recognized in its strategic position in the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor and its designation as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Its cross-frontier position gives it unique potential to improve bioregional planning. The park’s buffer zone includes coffee and beef producers and indigenous subsistence farmers. As a consequence of the difficulty of the terrain, the park is relatively unexplored and the only substantial scientific explorations deep into the park have been led by the Natural History Museum London, INBio and the University of Panama in the last 6 years (2003–2008).\n\nIn 2006 the UK's Darwin Initiative funded a three-year collaborative project led by the Natural History Museum, London, INBio (Costa Rica) and ANAM (Panama). The aim of the Initiative was to generate baseline biodiversity information for the park and a map of the biodiversity. This involved a series of seven multi-disciplinary and international expeditions to remote parts of La Amistad during which over 7,500 plant, 17,000 beetle and 380 herpetological collections were made and deposited in the national collections of Costa Rica and Panama. These expeditions also led to the discovery of 12 plant species, one dung beetle species, 15 amphibian and three reptile species new to science.\n\nFive species of big cats roam the park: pumas, ocelots, margay, jaguars, and jaguarundis. It has 600 species of birds, including the three-wattled bellbird, resplendent quetzal, yellow-green finch, and bare-necked umbrellabird. Three indigenous tribes – the Naso, Bribri, and Ngöbe-Buglé – also live within the park. These indigenous groups live in small, traditional villages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49512716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49512716", "title": "Mary Childs Nerney", "text": "Mary Childs Nerney\n\nMary Childs Nerney was the Executive Secretary of the NAACP from 1912 to 1916. She was white, and often lost patience with the African-American people she was seeking to help.\n\nShe offered W.E.B. DuBois the chance to lead the campaign to ban \"The Birth of a Nation\" (1915), but he refused. Because of the lack of success in NAACP's actions to ban \"The Birth of a Nation\", on April 17, 1915, Nerney wrote to NAACP Executive Committee member George Packard: \"I am utterly disgusted with the situation in regard to \"The Birth of a Nation\" ... kindly remember that we have put six weeks of constant effort of this thing and have gotten nowhere.\"\n"}
{"id": "31284153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31284153", "title": "Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia", "text": "Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia\n\nThe Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia (, \"sakartvelos garemos datsvisa da soplis meurneobis saministro\") is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Georgia in charge of regulation of economic activity in the agricultural sector of the country and environment protection with a purpose of increasing the sector's production capacity. The ministry is headed by Gigla Agulashvili.\n\nThe ministry is headed by a minister, first deputy minister and two deputy ministers. It is subdivided into General Inspection, Management Unit for Food Safety and Risk Analysis, Department of Cooperation with International Organizations and Projects Management which overlook divisions on Rural Development, Region Rule, Legal Issues, etc. In December 2017, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection was abolished and merged into that of Agriculture, which was renamed into the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52276901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52276901", "title": "Ministry of Health and Social Development (Bahamas)", "text": "Ministry of Health and Social Development (Bahamas)\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Social Development is a ministry in the Bahamas Government. Ministry plans, supervises, licenses and coordinates the country's healthcare services.\n\nThe Ministry of Health Duane Sands seeks to provide the leadership necessary to ensure and guard the protection and promotion of the health of all residents. It provides all residents with access to comprehensive, preventive, quality healthcare services and care.\n\nThe Ministry of Health seeks to protect the health of Bahamian residents against both current and emerging health threats. This is achieved, in part, by: helping individuals acquire the skills to live responsible, healthy and independent lives; providing a range of accessible, affordable services that assist individuals, families and communities to reach their full health potential; and monitoring both current and emerging disease threats.\n\nThe Ministry operates from a social model of health, whereby improvements in health and well-being are achieved by directing efforts towards addressing the social and environmental determinants of health, among others. The delivery of healthcare in The Bahamas is integrated and co-ordinated around the needs of residents, rather than service types, professional boundaries or organisational structure.\n\nThe Technical Directorate of the Ministry is composed of the Chief Medical Officer, Director of Public Health, and Director of Nursing.\n\nThe Chief Medical Officer advises both the Minister and the Permanent Secretary on technical, health matters.\n\nThe Director of Public Health has oversight for the Department of Public Health and advises the Permanent Secretary on all Public Health Matters.\n\nThe Director of Nursing directs and advises the Permanent Secretary on all Nursing Matters.\n"}
{"id": "26171242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26171242", "title": "Mono- and diglycerides of fatty acids", "text": "Mono- and diglycerides of fatty acids\n\nMono- and diglycerides of fatty acids (E471) refers to a food additive composed of diglycerides and monoglycerides which is used as an emulsifier. This mixture is also sometimes referred to as partial glycerides.\n\nMonoglycerides and diglycerides are both naturally present in various seed oils, however their concentration is usually low and industrial production is primarily achieved by a glycerolysis reaction between triglycerides (fats/oils) and glycerol. The raw materials of this may be either vegetable or animal fats and oils.\n\nE471 is mainly produced from vegetable oils, although animal fats are sometimes used and cannot be completely excluded as being present in the product. The fatty acids from each source are chemically identical. The Vegan Society, which discourages eating animal-based foods, flags E471 as a \"thing to look out for\" that \"can be animal OR non-animal based\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80740", "title": "Moon landing conspiracy theories", "text": "Moon landing conspiracy theories\n\nMoon landing conspiracy theories claim that some or all elements of the Apollo program and the associated Moon landings were hoaxes staged by NASA, possibly with the aid of other organizations. The most notable claim is that the six manned landings (1969–72) were faked and that 12 Apollo astronauts did not actually walk on the Moon. Various groups and individuals have made claims since the mid-1970s that NASA and others knowingly misled the public into believing the landings happened, by manufacturing, tampering with, or destroying evidence including photos, telemetry tapes, radio and TV transmissions, Moon rock samples, and even killing some key witnesses.\n\nMuch third-party evidence for the landings exists, and detailed rebuttals to the hoax claims have been made. Since the late 2000s, high-definition photos taken by the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO) of the Apollo landing sites have captured the lander modules and the tracks left by the astronauts. In 2012, images were released showing five of the six Apollo missions' American flags erected on the Moon still standing; the exception is that of Apollo 11, which has lain on the lunar surface since being accidentally blown over by the takeoff rocket's exhaust.\n\nConspiracists have managed to sustain public interest in their theories for more than 40 years, despite the rebuttals and third-party evidence. Opinion polls taken in various locations have shown that between 6% and 20% of Americans, 25% of Britons, and 28% of Russians surveyed believe that the manned landings were faked. Even as late as 2001, the Fox television network documentary \"Conspiracy Theory: Did We Land on the Moon?\" claimed NASA faked the first landing in 1969 to win the Space Race.\n\nAn early and influential book about the subject of a moon-landing conspiracy, \"We Never Went to the Moon: America's Thirty Billion Dollar Swindle\", was self-published in 1976 by Bill Kaysing, a former US Navy officer with a Bachelor of Arts in English. Despite having no knowledge of rockets or technical writing, Kaysing was hired as a senior technical writer in 1956 by Rocketdyne, the company that built the F-1 engines used on the Saturn V rocket. He served as head of the technical publications unit at the company's Propulsion Field Laboratory until 1963. Kaysing's book made many allegations, and effectively began discussion of the Moon landings being faked. The book claims that the chance of a successful manned landing on the Moon was calculated to be 0.0017%, and that despite close monitoring by the USSR, it would have been easier for NASA to fake the Moon landings than to really go there.\n\nIn 1980, the Flat Earth Society accused NASA of faking the landings, arguing that they were staged by Hollywood with Walt Disney sponsorship, based on a script by Arthur C. Clarke and directed by Stanley Kubrick. Folklorist Linda Dégh suggests that writer-director Peter Hyams' 1978 film \"Capricorn One\", which shows a hoaxed journey to Mars in a spacecraft that looks identical to the Apollo craft, might have given a boost to the hoax theory's popularity in the post-Vietnam War era. She notes that this happened during the post-Watergate era, when American citizens were inclined to distrust official accounts. Dégh writes: \"The mass media catapult these half-truths into a kind of twilight zone where people can make their guesses sound as truths. Mass media have a terrible impact on people who lack guidance.\" In \"A Man on the Moon\", first published in 1994, Andrew Chaikin mentions that at the time of Apollo 8's lunar-orbit mission in December 1968, similar conspiracy ideas were already in circulation.\n\nAfter Kaysing, Moon-landing conspiracists include (in alphabetical order):\n\nThose who believe the Moon landings were faked give several theories about the motives of NASA and the United States government. The three main theories are below.\n\nMotivation for the United States to engage the Soviet Union in a Space Race can be traced to the then on-going Cold War. Landing on the Moon was viewed as a national and technological accomplishment that would generate world-wide acclaim. But going to the Moon would be risky and expensive, as exemplified by President John F. Kennedy famously stating in a 1962 speech that the United States chose to go \"because\" it was hard.\n\nHoax theory-debunker Philip Plait says in his book \"Bad Astronomy\", that the Soviets – with their own competing Moon program, an extensive intelligence network and a formidable scientific community able to analyze NASA data – would have cried foul if the United States tried to fake a Moon landing, especially since their own program had failed. Proving a hoax would have been a huge propaganda win for the Soviets. Conspiracist Bart Sibrel responded, \"the Soviets did not have the capability to track deep space craft until late in 1972, immediately after which, the last three Apollo missions were abruptly canceled.\"\n\nIn fact, the Soviets had been sending unmanned spacecraft to the Moon since 1959, and \"during 1962, deep space tracking facilities were introduced at IP-15 in Ussuriisk and IP-16 in Evpatoria (Crimean Peninsula), while Saturn communication stations were added to IP-3, 4 and 14,\" the latter having a 100 million km range. The Soviet Union tracked the Apollo missions at the Space Transmissions Corps, which was \"fully equipped with the latest intelligence-gathering and surveillance equipment.\" Vasily Mishin, in an interview for the article \"The Moon Programme That Faltered,\" describes how the Soviet Moon program dwindled after the Apollo landings.\n\nAlso, there was nothing \"abrupt\" about the Apollo cancelations, which were announced in January and September 1970 for cost-cutting reasons. (See Vietnam War below.)\n\nConspiracy theorists claim that NASA faked the landings to avoid humiliation and to ensure that it continued to get funding. NASA raised \"about US$30 billion\" to go to the Moon, and Kaysing claimed in his book that this could have been used to \"pay off\" many people. Since most conspiracists believe that sending men to the Moon was impossible at the time, they argue that landings had to be faked to fulfill Kennedy's 1961 goal, \"before this decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth.\" In fact, NASA accounted for the cost of Apollo to the US Congress in 1973, totaling US$25.4 billion.\n\nMary Bennett and David Percy have claimed in \"Dark Moon: Apollo and the Whistle-Blowers\", that, with all the known and unknown hazards, NASA would not risk broadcasting an astronaut getting sick or dying on live television. The counter-argument generally given is that NASA in fact \"did\" incur a great deal of public humiliation and potential political opposition to the program by losing an entire crew in the Apollo 1 fire during a ground test, leading to its upper management team being questioned by Senate and House of Representatives space oversight committees. There was in fact no video broadcast during either the landing or takeoff because of technological limitations.\n\nThe American Patriot Friends Network claimed in 2009 that the landings helped the United States government distract public attention from the unpopular Vietnam War, and so manned landings suddenly ended about the same time that the United States ended its involvement in the war. In fact, the ending of the landings was not \"sudden\" (see The Space Race above). The war was one of several federal budget items with which NASA had to compete; NASA's budget peaked in 1966, and fell by 42.3% by 1972. This was the reason the final flights were cut, along with plans for even more ambitious follow-on programs such as a permanent space station and manned flight to Mars.\n\nMany Moon-landing conspiracy theories have been put forward, claiming either that the landings did not happen and that NASA employees have lied, or that the landings did happen but not in the way that has been told. Conspiracists have focused on perceived gaps or inconsistencies in the historical record of the missions. The foremost idea is that the whole manned landing program was a hoax from start to end. Some claim that the technology to send men to the Moon was lacking or that the Van Allen radiation belts, solar flares, solar wind, coronal mass ejections and cosmic rays made such a trip impossible.\n\nVince Calder and Andrew Johnson, scientists from Argonne National Laboratory, have given detailed answers to conspiracists' claims on the laboratory's website. They show that NASA's portrayal of the Moon landing is fundamentally accurate, allowing for such common mistakes as mislabeled photos and imperfect personal recollections. Using the scientific process, any hypothesis that is contradicted by the observable facts may be rejected. The 'real landing' hypothesis is a single story since it comes from a single source, but there is no unity in the hoax hypothesis because hoax accounts vary between conspiracists.\n\nAccording to James Longuski (Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering at Purdue University), the conspiracy theories are impossible because of their size and complexity. The conspiracy would have to involve more than 400,000 people who worked on the Apollo project for nearly ten years, the 12 men who walked on the Moon, the six others who flew with them as Command Module pilots, and another six astronauts who orbited the Moon. Hundreds of thousands of people – including astronauts, scientists, engineers, technicians, and skilled laborers – would have had to keep the secret. Longuski argues that it would have been much easier to really land on the Moon than to generate such a huge conspiracy to fake the landings. To date, nobody from the United States government or NASA linked to the Apollo program has said the Moon landings were hoaxes. Penn Jillette made note of this in the \"Conspiracy Theories\" episode of his television show \"\" in 2005. With the number of people involved, and noting the Watergate scandal, Jillette noted that \"someone\" would have outed the hoax by now.\n\nMoon-landing conspiracists focus heavily on NASA photos. They point to oddities in photos and films taken on the Moon. Photography experts (including those unrelated to NASA) have replied that the oddities are consistent with what should be expected from a real Moon landing, and are not consistent with tweaked or studio imagery. Some main arguments and counter-arguments are listed below.\n\n1. In some photos, the crosshairs appear to be behind objects. The cameras were fitted with a Réseau plate (a clear glass plate with a reticle etched on), making it impossible for any photographed object to appear \"in front\" of the grid. Conspiracists often use this evidence to suggest that objects were \"pasted\" over the photographs, and hence obscure the reticle.\n\n2. Crosshairs are sometimes rotated or in the wrong place.\n\n3. The quality of the photographs is implausibly high.\n\n4. There are no stars in any of the photos; the Apollo 11 astronauts also stated in post-mission press conferences that they did not remember seeing any stars during EVA. Conspiracists contend that NASA chose not to put the stars into the photos because astronomers would have been able to use them to determine whether the photos were taken from the Earth or the Moon, by means of identifying them and comparing their celestial position and parallax to what would be expected for either observation site.\n\n5. The angle and color of shadows are inconsistent. This suggests that artificial lights were used.\n\n6. There are identical backgrounds in photos which, according to their captions, were taken miles apart. This suggests that a painted background was used.\n\n7. The number of photos taken is implausibly high. Up to one photo per 50 seconds.\n\n8. The photos contain artifacts like the two seemingly matching 'C's on a rock and on the ground. These may be labeled studio props.\n\n9. A resident of Perth, Western Australia, a woman named Una Ronald (a pseudonym created by the authors of the source), said that for two or three seconds she saw a Coca-Cola bottle roll across the lower right quadrant of her television screen that was displaying the live broadcast of the Apollo 11 EVA. She also said that several letters appeared in \"The West Australian\" discussing the Coca-Cola bottle incident within ten days of the lunar landing.\n\n10. The book \"Moon Shot\" contains an obviously fake composite photo of Alan Shepard hitting a golf ball on the Moon with another astronaut.\n\n11. There appear to be \"hot spots\" in some photos that look like a large spotlight was used in place of the sun.\n\n12. Who filmed Neil Armstrong stepping onto the Moon?\n\n1. The astronauts could not have survived the trip because of exposure to radiation from the Van Allen radiation belt and galactic ambient radiation (see radiation poisoning and health threat from cosmic rays). Some conspiracists have suggested that Starfish Prime (a high-altitude nuclear test in 1962) was a failed attempt to disrupt the Van Allen belts.\n\n2. Film in the cameras would have been fogged by this radiation.\n\n3. The Moon's surface during the daytime is so hot that camera film would have melted.\n\n4. The Apollo 16 crew could not have survived a big solar flare firing out when they were on their way to the Moon.\n\n5. The flag placed on the surface by the astronauts fluttered despite there being no wind on the Moon. This suggests that it was filmed on Earth and a breeze caused the flag to flutter. Sibrel said that it may have been caused by indoor fans used to cool the astronauts since their spacesuit cooling systems would have been too heavy on Earth.\n\n6. Footprints in the Moondust are unexpectedly well preserved, despite the lack of moisture.\n\n7. The alleged Moon landings used either a sound stage or were filmed outside in a remote desert with the astronauts either using harnesses or slow-motion photography to make it look like they were on the Moon.\n\n1. The Lunar Modules made no blast craters or any sign of dust scatter.\n\n2. The second stage of the launch rocket and/or the Lunar Module ascent stage made no visible flame.\n\n3. The Lunar Modules weighed 17 tons and made no mark on the Moondust, yet footprints can be seen beside them.\n\n4. The air conditioning units that were part of the astronauts' spacesuits could not have worked in an environment of no atmosphere.\n\n1. There should have been more than a two-second delay in communications between Earth and the Moon, at a distance of .\n\n2. Typical delays in communication were about 0.5 seconds.\n\n3. The Parkes Observatory in Australia was billed to the world for weeks as the site that would be relaying communications from the first moonwalk. However, five hours before transmission they were told to stand down.\n\n4. Parkes supposedly had the clearest video feed from the Moon, but Australian media and all other known sources ran a live feed from the United States.\n\n5. Better signal was supposedly received at Parkes Observatory when the Moon was on the opposite side of the planet.\n\nBlueprints and design and development drawings of the machines involved are missing. Apollo 11 data tapes containing telemetry and the high-quality video (before scan conversion from slow-scan TV to standard TV) of the first moonwalk are also missing.\n\nDr. David R. Williams (NASA archivist at Goddard Space Flight Center) and Apollo 11 flight director Eugene F. Kranz both acknowledged that the original high-quality Apollo 11 telemetry data tapes are missing. Conspiracists see this as evidence that they never existed. The Apollo 11 telemetry tapes were different from the telemetry tapes of the other Moon landings because they contained the raw television broadcast. For technical reasons, the Apollo 11 lander carried a slow-scan television (SSTV) camera (see Apollo TV camera). To broadcast the pictures to regular television, a scan conversion had to be done. The radio telescope at Parkes Observatory in Australia was able to receive the telemetry from the Moon at the time of the Apollo 11 moonwalk. Parkes had a bigger antenna than NASA's antenna in Australia at the Honeysuckle Creek Tracking Station, so it received a better picture. It also received a better picture than NASA's antenna at Goldstone Deep Space Communications Complex. This direct TV signal, along with telemetry data, was recorded onto one-inch fourteen-track analog tape at Parkes. The original SSTV transmission had better detail and contrast than the scan-converted pictures, and it is this original tape that is missing. A crude, real-time scan conversion of the SSTV signal was done in Australia before it was broadcast worldwide. However, still photos of the original SSTV image are available (see photos). About fifteen minutes of it were filmed by an amateur 8 mm film camera and these are also available. Later Apollo missions did not use SSTV. At least some of the telemetry tapes from the ALSEP scientific experiments left on the Moon (which ran until 1977) still exist, according to Dr. Williams. Copies of those tapes have been found.\n\nOthers are looking for the missing telemetry tapes for different reasons. The tapes contain the original and highest quality video feed from the Apollo 11 landing. Some former Apollo personnel want to find the tapes for posterity while NASA engineers looking towards future Moon missions believe the tapes may be useful for their design studies. They have found that the Apollo 11 tapes were sent for storage at the U.S. National Archives in 1970, but by 1984, all the Apollo 11 tapes had been returned to the Goddard Space Flight Center at their request. The tapes are believed to have been stored rather than re-used. Goddard was storing 35,000 new tapes per year in 1967, even before the Moon landings.\n\nIn November 2006, COSMOS Online reported that about 100 data tapes recorded in Australia during the Apollo 11 mission had been found in a small marine science laboratory in the main physics building at the Curtin University of Technology in Perth, Australia. One of the old tapes has been sent to NASA for analysis. The slow-scan television images were not on the tape.\n\nIn July 2009, NASA indicated that it must have erased the original Apollo 11 Moon footage years ago so that it could re-use the tape. In December 2009 NASA issued a final report on the Apollo 11 telemetry tapes. Senior engineer Dick Nafzger, who was in charge of the live TV recordings during the Apollo missions, was put in charge of the restoration project. After a three-year search, the \"inescapable conclusion\" was that about 45 tapes (estimated 15 tapes recorded at each of the three tracking stations) of Apollo 11 video were erased and re-used, said Nafzger. In time for the 40th anniversary of the Apollo 11 landing, Lowry Digital had been tasked with restoring the surviving footage. Lowry Digital president Mike Inchalik said that, \"this is by far and away the lowest quality\" video the company has dealt with. Nafzger praised Lowry for restoring \"crispness\" to the Apollo video, which will remain in black and white and contains conservative digital enhancements. The US$230,000 restoration project took months to complete and did not include sound quality improvements. Some selections of restored footage in high-definition have been made available on the NASA website.\n\nThe website Xenophilia.com documents a hoax claim that blueprints for the Saturn V rocket, Apollo Lunar Module (LM), Lunar Roving Vehicle (LRV), and associated equipment are missing. There are some diagrams of the Lunar Module and Lunar Roving Vehicle on the NASA website and on Xenophilia.com. Grumman appears to have destroyed most of their LM documentation, but copies of the blueprints for the Saturn V exist on microfilm.\n\nFour mission-worthy LRVs were built by Boeing. Three of them were carried to the Moon on Apollos 15, 16, and 17, and left there. After Apollo 18 was canceled, the other LRV was used for spare parts for the Apollos 15 to 17 missions. The 221-page operation manual for the LRV contains some detailed drawings, although not the blueprints.\n\nBart Sibrel cites the relative level of the United States and USSR space technology as evidence that the Moon landings could not have happened. For much of the early stages of the Space Race, the USSR was ahead of the United States, yet in the end, the USSR was never able to fly a manned craft to the Moon, let alone land one on the surface. It is argued that, because the USSR was unable to do this, the United States should have also been unable to develop the technology to do so.\n\nFor example, he claims that, during the Apollo program, the USSR had five times more manned hours in space than the United States, and notes that the USSR was the first to achieve many of the early milestones in space: the first man-made satellite in orbit (October 1957, Sputnik 1); the first living creature in orbit (a dog named Laika, November 1957, Sputnik 2); the first man in space and in orbit (Yuri Gagarin, April 1961, Vostok 1); the first woman in space (Valentina Tereshkova, June 1963, Vostok 6); and the first spacewalk (EVA) (Alexei Leonov in March 1965, Voskhod 2).\n\nHowever, most of the Soviet gains listed above were matched by the United States within a year, and sometimes within weeks. In 1965, the United States started to achieve many firsts (such as the first successful space rendezvous), which were important steps in a mission to the Moon. Furthermore, NASA and others say that these gains by the Soviets are not as impressive as they seem; that a number of these firsts were mere stunts that did not advance the technology greatly, or at all, \"e.g.\", the first woman in space. In fact, by the time of the launch of the first manned Earth-orbiting Apollo flight (Apollo 7), the USSR had made only nine spaceflights (seven with one cosmonaut, one with two, one with three) compared to 16 by the United States. In terms of spacecraft hours, the USSR had 460 hours of spaceflight; the United States had 1,024 hours. In terms of astronaut/cosmonaut time, the USSR had 534 hours of manned spaceflight whereas the United States had 1,992 hours. By the time of Apollo 11, the United States had a lead much wider than that. (See List of human spaceflights, 1961–1970, and refer to individual flights for the length of time.)\n\nMoreover, the USSR did not develop a successful rocket capable of a manned lunar mission until the 1980s – their N1 rocket failed on all four launch attempts between 1969 and 1972. The Soviet LK lunar lander was tested in unmanned low-Earth-orbit flights three times in 1970 and 1971.\n\nIn a televised program about the moon-landing hoax allegations, Fox Entertainment Group listed the deaths of ten astronauts and two civilians related to the manned spaceflight program as part of an alleged cover-up.\n\nTwo of the above, X-15 pilot Mike Adams and MOL pilot Robert Lawrence, had no connection with the civilian manned space program that oversaw the Apollo missions. All of the deaths listed besides Welch occurred at least 20 months \"before\" Apollo 11 and subsequent flights.\n\nAs of November 2018, four of the twelve Apollo astronauts who landed on the Moon between 1969 and 1972 are still alive, including Buzz Aldrin. Also, nine of the twelve Apollo astronauts who flew to the Moon without landing between 1968 and 1972 are still alive, including Michael Collins.\n\nThe number of deaths within the American astronaut corps during the run-up to Apollo and during the Apollo missions is similar to the number of deaths incurred by the Russians. During the period 1961 to 1972, at least eight Russian serving and former cosmonauts died:\n\nAdditionally, the overall chief of their manned-spaceflight program, Sergei Korolev, died while undergoing surgery in January 1966.\n\nIn June 1977, NASA issued a fact sheet responding to recent claims that the Apollo Moon landings had been hoaxed. The fact sheet is particularly blunt and regards the idea of faking the Moon landings to be preposterous and outlandish. NASA refers to the rocks and particles collected from the Moon as being evidence of the program's legitimacy, as they claim that these rocks could not have been formed under conditions on earth. NASA also notes that all of the operations and phases of the Apollo program were closely followed and under the scrutiny of the news media, from liftoff to splashdown. NASA responds to Bill Kaysing's book, \"We Never Went to the Moon\", by identifying one of his claims of fraud regarding the lack of a crater left on the Moon's surface by the landing of the lunar module, and refuting it with facts about the soil and cohesive nature of the surface of the Moon.\n\nThe fact sheet was reissued on February 14, 2001, the day before Fox television's broadcast of \"Conspiracy Theory: Did We Land on the Moon?\" The documentary reinvigorated the public's interest in conspiracy theories and the possibility that the Moon landings were faked, which has provoked NASA to once again defend its name.\n\nFilmmaker Stanley Kubrick is accused of having produced much of the footage for Apollos 11 and 12, presumably because he had just directed \"\", which is partly set on the Moon and featured advanced special effects. It has been claimed that when \"2001\" was in post-production in early 1968, NASA secretly approached Kubrick to direct the first three Moon landings. The launch and splashdown would be real but the spacecraft would stay in Earth orbit and fake footage broadcast as \"live from the Moon.\" No evidence was offered for this theory, which overlooks many facts. For example, \"2001\" was released before the first Apollo landing and Kubrick's depiction of the Moon's surface differs greatly from its appearance in Apollo video, film, and photography. Movements of astronauts in \"2001\" differs from that of the Apollo astronauts, and does not resemble an environment with 1/6 the gravity of Earth. Several scenes of \"2001\" show billowing of dust as spacecraft landed, something that would not happen in the vacuum environment of the Moon. Kubrick did hire Frederick Ordway and Harry Lange, both of whom had worked for NASA and major aerospace contractors, to work with him on \"2001\". Kubrick also used some 50 mm f/0.7 lenses that were left over from a batch made by Zeiss for NASA. However, Kubrick only got this lens for \"Barry Lyndon\" (1975). The lens was originally a still photo lens and needed changes to be used for motion filming.\n\nThe mockumentary based on this idea, \"Dark Side of the Moon\", could have fueled the conspiracy theory. This French mockumentary, directed by William Karel, was originally aired on Arte channel in 2002 with the title \"Opération Lune\". It parodies conspiracy theories with faked interviews, stories of assassinations of Stanley Kubrick's assistants by the CIA, and a variety of conspicuous mistakes, puns, and references to old movie characters, inserted through the film as clues for the viewer. Nevertheless, \"Opération Lune\" is still taken at face value by some conspiracy believers.\n\nAn article entitled \"Stanley Kubrick and the Moon Hoax\" appeared on Usenet in 1995, in the newsgroup \"alt.humor.best-of-usenet\". One passage – on how Kubrick was supposedly coerced into the conspiracy – reads:\n\nNASA further leveraged their position by threatening to publicly reveal the heavy involvement of Mr. Kubrick's younger brother, Raul, with the American Communist Party. This would have been an intolerable embarrassment to Mr. Kubrick, especially since the release of \"Dr. Strangelove\".\n\nKubrick had no such brother – the article was a spoof, complete with a giveaway sentence describing Kubrick shooting the moonwalk \"on location\" on the Moon. Nevertheless, the claim was taken up in earnest; Clyde Lewis used it almost word-for-word, whereas Jay Weidner gave the brother a more senior status within the party:\n\nNo one knows how the powers-that-be convinced Kubrick to direct the Apollo landings. Maybe they had compromised Kubrick in some way. The fact that his brother, Raul Kubrick, was the head of the American Communist Party may have been one of the avenues pursued by the government to get Stanley to cooperate.\n\nIn July 2009, Weidner posted on his webpage \"Secrets of the Shining\", where he states that Kubrick's \"The Shining\" (1980) is a veiled confession of his role in the scam project. This thesis was subject of refutation in an article published on Seeker nearly half a year later.\n\nThe 2015 movie \"Moonwalkers\" is a fictional account of a CIA agent's claim of Kubrick's involvement.\n\nIn December 2015, a video surfaced which allegedly shows Kubrick being interviewed shortly before his 1999 death; the video purportedly shows the director confessing to T. Patrick Murray that the Apollo Moon landings had been faked. Research quickly found, however, that the video was a hoax.\n\nIn 2002, NASA granted US$15,000 to James Oberg for a commission to write a point-by-point rebuttal of the hoax claims. However, NASA canceled the commission later that year, after complaints that the book would dignify the accusations. Oberg said that he meant to finish the book. In November 2002, Peter Jennings said \"NASA is going to spend a few thousand dollars trying to prove to some people that the United States did indeed land men on the Moon,\" and \"NASA had been so rattled, [they] hired [somebody] to write a book refuting the conspiracy theorists.\" Oberg says that belief in the hoax theories is not the fault of the conspiracists, but rather that of teachers and people (including NASA) who should provide information to the public.\n\nIn 2004, Martin Hendry and Ken Skeldon of the University of Glasgow were awarded a grant by the UK-based Particle Physics and Astronomy Research Council to investigate Moon landing conspiracy theories. In November 2004, they gave a lecture at the Glasgow Science Centre where the top ten claims by conspiracists were individually addressed and refuted.\n\nAn episode of \"MythBusters\" in August 2008 was dedicated to the Moon landings. The \"MythBusters\" crew tested many of the conspiracists' claims. Some of the testings were done in a NASA training facility. All of the conspiracists' claims examined on the show were labeled as having been \"Busted\", meaning that the conspiracists' claims were not true.\n\nMoon-landing conspiracists claim that observatories and the Hubble Space Telescope should be able to photograph the landing sites. This implies that the world's major observatories (as well as the Hubble Program) are complicit in the hoax by refusing to take photos of the landing sites. Photos of the Moon have been taken by Hubble, including at least two Apollo landing sites, but the Hubble resolution limits viewing of lunar objects to sizes no smaller than , which is insufficient resolution to see any landing site features.\n\nIn April 2001, Leonard David published an article on space.com, which showed a photo taken by the Clementine mission showing a diffuse dark spot at the site NASA says is the Apollo 15 lander. The evidence was noticed by Misha Kreslavsky, of the Department of Geological Sciences at Brown University, and Yuri Shkuratov of the Kharkiv Astronomical Observatory in Ukraine. The European Space Agency's SMART-1 unmanned probe sent back photos of the landing sites, according to Bernard Foing, Chief Scientist of the ESA Science Program. \"Given SMART-1's initial high orbit, however, it may prove difficult to see artifacts,\" said Foing in an interview on space.com.\n\nIn 2002, Alex R. Blackwell of the University of Hawaii pointed out that some photos taken by Apollo astronauts while in orbit around the Moon show the landing sites.\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" published a story in 2002 saying that European astronomers at the Very Large Telescope (VLT) would use it to view the landing sites. According to the article, Dr. Richard West said that his team would take \"a high-resolution image of one of the Apollo landing sites.\" Marcus Allen, a conspiracist, answered that no photos of hardware on the Moon would convince him that manned landings had happened. As the VLT is capable of resolving equivalent to the distance between the headlights of a car as seen from the Moon, it may be able to photograph some features of the landing sites. Such photos, if and when they become available, would be the first non-NASA-produced photos of the sites at that definition.\n\nThe Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) launched their SELENE Moon orbiter on September 14, 2007 (JST), from Tanegashima Space Center. SELENE orbited the Moon at about altitude. In May 2008, JAXA reported detecting the \"halo\" generated by the Apollo 15 Lunar Module engine exhaust from a Terrain Camera image. A three-dimensional reconstructed photo also matched the terrain of an Apollo 15 photo taken from the surface.\n\nOn July 17, 2009, NASA released low-resolution engineering test photos of the Apollo 11, Apollo 14, Apollo 15, Apollo 16 and Apollo 17 landing sites that have been photographed by the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter as part of the process of starting its primary mission. The photos show the descent stage of the landers from each mission on the Moon's surface. The photo of the Apollo 14 landing site also shows tracks made by an astronaut between a science experiment (ALSEP) and the lander. Photos of the Apollo 12 landing site were released by NASA on September 3, 2009. The \"Intrepid\" lander descent stage, experiment package (ALSEP), Surveyor 3 spacecraft, and astronaut footpaths are all visible. While the LRO images have been enjoyed by the scientific community as a whole, they have not done anything to convince conspiracists that the landings happened.\n\nOn September 1, 2009, India's lunar mission Chandrayaan-1 took photos of the Apollo 15 landing site and tracks of the lunar rovers. The Indian Space Research Organisation launched their unmanned lunar probe on September 8, 2008 (IST), from Satish Dhawan Space Centre. The photos were taken by a hyperspectral camera fitted as part of the mission's image payload.\n\nChina's second lunar probe, Chang'e 2, which was launched in 2010, can photograph the lunar surface with a resolution of up to . It spotted traces of the Apollo landings.\n\nThe Apollo program collected of Moon rocks during the six manned missions. Analyses by scientists worldwide all agree that these rocks came from the Moon – no published accounts in peer-reviewed scientific journals exist that dispute this claim. The Apollo samples are easily distinguishable from both meteorites and Earth rocks in that they show a lack of hydrous alteration products, they show evidence of having undergone impact events on an airless body, and they have unique geochemical traits. Furthermore, most are more than 200 million years older than the oldest Earth rocks. The Moon rocks also share the same traits as Soviet samples.\n\nConspiracists argue that Marshall Space Flight Center Director Wernher von Braun's trip to Antarctica in 1967 (about two years before the Apollo 11 launch) was to gather lunar meteorites to be used as fake Moon rocks. Because von Braun was a former SS officer (though one who had been detained by the Gestapo), the documentary film \"Did We Go?\" suggests that he could have been pressured to agree to the conspiracy to protect himself from recriminations over his past. NASA said that von Braun's mission was \"to look into environmental and logistic factors that might relate to the planning of future space missions, and hardware.\" NASA continues to send teams to work in Antarctica to mimic the conditions on other planets.\n\nIt is now accepted by the scientific community that rocks have been blasted from both the Martian and lunar surface during impact events, and that some of these have landed on the Earth as meteorites. However, the first Antarctic lunar meteorite was found in 1979, and its lunar origin was not recognized until 1982. Furthermore, lunar meteorites are so rare that it is unlikely that they could account for the 380 kilograms of Moon rocks that NASA gathered between 1969 and 1972. Only about 30 kilograms of lunar meteorites have been found on Earth thus far, despite private collectors and governmental agencies worldwide searching for more than 20 years.\n\nWhile the Apollo missions gathered 380 kilograms of Moon rocks, the Soviet Luna 16, Luna 20 and Luna 24 robots gathered only 326 grams combined (that is, less than one-thousandth as much). Indeed, current plans for a Martian sample return would only gather about 500 grams of soil, and a recently proposed South Pole-Aitken basin robot mission would only gather about 1 kilogram of Moon rock. If NASA had used similar robot technology, then between 300 and 2,000 robot missions would have been needed to collect the current amount of Moon rocks that is held by NASA.\n\nOn the makeup of the Moon rocks, Kaysing asked: \"Why was there never a mention of gold, silver, diamonds or other precious metals on the moon? Wasn't this a viable consideration? Why was this fact never dicussed [\"sic\"] in the press or by the astronauts?\" Geologists realize that gold and silver deposits on Earth are the result of the action of hydrothermal fluids concentrating the precious metals into veins of ore. Since in 1969 water was believed to be absent on the Moon, no geologist would bother discussing the possibility of finding these on the Moon in any great amount.\n\nAside from NASA, a number of groups and individuals tracked the Apollo missions as they happened. On later missions, NASA released information to the public explaining where and when the spacecraft could be sighted. Their flight paths were tracked using radar and they were sighted and photographed using telescopes. Also, radio transmissions between the astronauts on the surface and in orbit were independently recorded.\n\nThe presence of retroreflectors (mirrors used as targets for Earth-based tracking lasers) from the Laser Ranging Retroreflector Experiment (LRRR) is evidence that there were landings. Lick Observatory attempted to detect from Apollo 11's retroreflector while Armstrong and Aldrin were still on the Moon but did not succeed until August 1, 1969. The Apollo 14 astronauts deployed a retroreflector on February 5, 1971, and McDonald Observatory detected it the same day. The Apollo 15 retroreflector was deployed on July 31, 1971, and was detected by McDonald Observatory within a few days. Smaller retroreflectors were also put on the Moon by the Russians; they were attached to the unmanned lunar rovers Lunokhod 1 and Lunokhod 2.\n\nIn a 1994 poll by \"The Washington Post\", 9% of the respondents said that it was possible that astronauts did not go to the Moon and another 5% were unsure. A 1999 Gallup Poll found that 6% of the Americans surveyed doubted that the Moon landings happened and that 5% of those surveyed had no opinion, which roughly matches the findings of a similar 1995 \"Time/CNN\" poll. Officials of the Fox network said that such skepticism rose to about 20% after the February 2001 airing of their network's television special, \"Conspiracy Theory: Did We Land on the Moon?\", seen by about 15 million viewers. This Fox special is seen as having promoted the hoax claims.\n\nA 2000 poll conducted by the (\"ФОМ\") in Russia found that 28% of those surveyed did not believe that American astronauts landed on the Moon, and this percentage is roughly equal in all social-demographic groups. In 2009, a poll held by the United Kingdom's \"Engineering & Technology\" magazine found that 25% of those surveyed did not believe that men landed on the Moon. Another poll gives that 25% of 18- to 25-year-olds surveyed were unsure that the landings happened.\n\nThere are subcultures worldwide which advocate the belief that the Moon landings were faked. By 1977 the Hare Krishna magazine \"Back to Godhead\" called the landings a hoax, claiming that, since the Sun is 93,000,000 miles away, and \"according to Hindu mythology the Moon is 800,000 miles farther away than that\", the Moon would be nearly 94,000,000 miles away; to travel that span in 91 hours would require a speed of more than a million miles per hour, \"a patently impossible feat even by the scientists' calculations.\"\n\nJames Oberg of ABC News said that the conspiracy theory is taught in Cuban schools and wherever Cuban teachers are sent. A poll conducted in the 1970s by the United States Information Agency in several countries in Latin America, Asia, and Africa found that most respondents were unaware of the Moon landings, many of the others dismissed them as propaganda or science fiction, and many thought that it had been the Russians that landed on the Moon.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54087171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54087171", "title": "NL-Alert", "text": "NL-Alert\n\nNL-Alert is a Cell Broadcast alarm system in use by the Dutch government to quickly alert and inform citizens of hazardous or crisis situations. Using this system, authorities can send messages to users of mobile phones in specific areas by using specific cell towers to alert phones within their reach.\n\nThe system was introduced nationally on 8 November 2012 , and was first used in a large fire in Tolbert on 14 December 2012. The second use was in another fire in Meppel in 2013. NL-Alert has been used more than 200 times until December 2017 for public warning purposes (e.g. large forest & industrial fires, severe weather conditions and gas leakages).\n\nNL-Alert is an addition to the existing emergency population warning system, which works using a large amount of sirens on masts throughout the country. A key difference between these systems is that users of NL-Alert are not only warned, but also immediately informed about the situation. NL-Alert messages include the location of an incident and advice on bringing oneself to safety. NL-Alert messages have a distinct alarm sound - which only stops when the message is seen by the user. The national network of 4,200 civil sirens, with a yearly maintenace costs of 4 M€, will be switched off and dismantled as from 1 January 2020. As from 2020 the government wants to inform citizens of disasters or emergencies only via their mobile phones, using Cell broadcast message based NL-Alert and internet based social media and the crisis.nl website. \n\nReceiving NL-Alert is free. A user does not have to register to receive alerts, but may need to configure a device to receive cell broadcasts. Increasingly, mobile phones are pre-configured by their manufacturers to receive cell broadcasts, including NL-Alert, via 2G, 3G and 4G systems. \n\nNL-Alert has been used in the Netherlands for several years, and every six months a test message is sent which is broadcast throughout the Netherlands. The reach of the Control Cell Broadcast message has increased over the years resulting that in June 2018 10M citizens received the test warning Cell Broadcast message on their mobile phone and reaching with this message 11.3M people - 76% of the Dutch population of 12 years and older.\n\n"}
{"id": "6978329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6978329", "title": "Nevada Desert Experience", "text": "Nevada Desert Experience\n\nThe Nevada Desert Experience is a name for the movement to stop U.S. nuclear weapons testing that came into use in the middle 1980s. It is also the name of an anti-nuclear organization which continues to create public events to question the morality and intelligence of the U.S. nuclear weapons program, with a main focus on the United States Department of Energy's (DOE) Nevada Test Site (now renamed the Nevada National Security Site).\n\nIn the spring of 1982 activists working for social justice, environmental preservation, and international peace organized a six-week peace vigil at the entrance to the Nevada Test Site, about 60 miles (100 km) from Las Vegas, Nevada. In 1983 they repeated the vigil, calling it the 'Lenten Desert Experience'. This anarchist group of Christian organizers decided that the program had been successful enough to start an organization, which led to a faith-based aspect to the nuclear abolition movement. They named it 'Nevada Desert Experience' or NDE because of the work within the prayer-actions for peace that included learning to appreciate the Mojave and the Great Basin Deserts of North America. Organizers believed that appreciation of the beauty and power of the natural environment, coupled with a universal code of ethics (the Golden Rule) organically leads humans to make a stand for peace and environmental justice.\n\nThe movement's immediate goal of ending nuclear testing at the Nevada Test Site was met in 1992, when President George H. W. Bush signed a moratorium on underground nuclear weapons tests. The abolition movement, led by NDE and the Western Shoshone-based Shundahai Network were sparked back into action with the renewal of non-nuclear explosions at the Nevada Test Site in 1997. These \"subcritical\" bombs use fissile materials which do not reach the self-sustaining chain reaction of a typical nuclear bomb. The bombs are designed by Los Alamos National Laboratory and Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, whereby the data collected can be fed to computers to simulate full-scale nuclear explosions for the US National Security Agency (NSA) and DOE. Their explosive yield is low, and small amounts of radiation may be released. Because each sub-critical experiment costs roughly and much time from the humans working within the nuclear weapons management industry, the tests indicate to nuclear abolition activists a strong continued interest (within the U.S. Government) in favor of nuclear weapons. Therefore, the NDE continues to work for deep ecological sensitivities and social peacemaking, with one goal being to clean up and contain the contamination created by 55 years of nuclear testing in Nevada and Western Shoshone country.\n\nFrom 1986 through 1994, two years after the United States put a hold on full-scale nuclear weapons testing, 536 demonstrations were held at the Nevada Test Site involving 37,488 participants and 15,740 arrests, according to government records. In the fall of 1986, the Peace Caucus of the American Public Health Association (APHA) organized a protest at the site with over 500 APHA members participating. Over 100 APHA members, along with Carl Sagan, Victor R. Sidel and H. Jack Geiger, were arrested. In January, 1987, the actor Martin Sheen and 71 other anti-nuclear protesters were arrested at the Nevada Test Site in a demonstration marking the 36th anniversary of the first nuclear test there.\nOn February 5, 1987, more than 400 people were arrested, when they tried to enter the nation's nuclear proving grounds after nearly 2,000 demonstrators held a rally to protest nuclear weapons testing. Those arrested included the astronomer Carl Sagan, privacy advocate Phil Zimmermann, and the actors Kris Kristofferson, Martin Sheen, and Robert Blake. Five Democratic members of Congress attended the rally: Thomas J. Downey, Mike Lowry, Jim Bates, Leon E. Panetta and Barbara Boxer.\n\nIn protest over UAV attacks in Pakistan and the perceived extremely high danger of harming civilians, in an event sponsored by Nevada Desert Experience, Father Louie Vitale, Kathy Kelly, Stephen Kelly SJ, John Dear, and others were arrested outside Creech Air Force Base (adjacent to the Nevada National Security Site) on Wednesday April 9, 2009. Subsequent monthly protests have been ongoing and conducted by a number of organizations including Code Pink.\n\n\n\"Pilgrimage Through a Burning World\", by Ken Butigan, Chronicles and discusses the political and religious aspects of the nonviolent protest against nuclear testing called the Nevada Desert Experience. 2003, 256 pp., paper.\n\n"}
{"id": "50970172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50970172", "title": "OYSS Women", "text": "OYSS Women\n\nOYSS Women is a non-profit organization engaged in empowering women in India. It was founded in 1987 by women’s rights activist Manasi Pradhan.\n\nThe organization undertakes activities in the field of women education, vocational training, leadership development, women’s rights enforcement, self-defense training and legal awareness with the objective of empowering women.\n\nOYSS Women Model UN is a national-level conference of university and college students. The conference sits in different formations i.e. General Assembly, Security Council, UN Secretariat and Press & Publicity division.\nParticipants debate contemporary women issues and are awarded gold, silver or bronze medals based on their performance.\n\nSome of the periodic events organized by OYSS Women includes Nirbhaya Samaroh, Women Leadership Conclave, National Meet on Rural Women Empowerment, National Meet on Ending Violence against women, National Meet on Liquor Trade & Gender Violence and women’s rights festival.\n"}
{"id": "46846060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46846060", "title": "Odisha Government Schemes List", "text": "Odisha Government Schemes List\n\nThe Government of Odisha has come up with various schemes from time to time for the people of the State. They are detailed below:\n"}
{"id": "38880595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38880595", "title": "Oscar Soria", "text": "Oscar Soria\n\nOscar Soria (born 1974) is an Argentinian political activist, social journalist, and environmental and human rights campaigner, currently serving as senior campaigner in the international activist group Avaaz. Previously he was the global brand director of Greenpeace and afterwards the media director of WWF.\n\nSoria was also part of the directorate of the British section of Oxfam and confidant and close adviser of progressive politicians, social advocates and NGO leaders in Latin America and Asia.\n\nBorn in Santiago del Estero in a traditional political family and raised in Buenos Aires, Argentina, he went back to his province in 1984 with his family, during the beginning of the democratic transition in the aftermath of the National Reorganization Process. He led many efforts to promote transitional justice, in particular over forced disappearances and the stolen children during the dictatorship in the country.\n\nSoria started his journalism career in the newspaper El Liberal when he was 14, becoming the youngest journalist in the Argentine media, leading high-profile investigative reports on social, environmental and human rights issues. He was known for shifting the rules of covering political campaigns, by refusing visibility to rallies or negative campaigning and organising instead local debates, community forums, off-line civic and open-source journalism formats, focusing the discussions in party platforms rather than candidates.\n\nSince the age of 16, he was involved in neighborhood organizing, youth work in his community, and mass mobilizations against land grabbing.\n\nIn 1993 he founded the human rights and environmental justice movement Salus Terrae, which brought youth activists from rural areas and poor neighborhoods with university students and youth groups of the Catholic church. With this group, they campaigned for lands rights and water access, and successfully stopped deforestation and agribusiness plans, nuclear repositories and mass river engineering projects. The group were known by their high-profile exposes, denouncing illegal toxic waste and deforestation. During his campaign against the channelization project called \"Canal Federal\", there were notorious public clashes between Soria and then the governor of Santiago del Estero, Carlos Juárez, the national environmental secretary María Julia Alsogaray and the president of Argentina, Carlos Menem.\n\nIn 1999 Soria was appointed in Greenpeace, where his early adoption of mobile phones led into landmark victories in forest protection and indigenous rights in Argentina. He also designed a successful campaign towards the reduction of waste by encouraging individuals to participate in mobile campaigning.\n\nSoria later designed high-profile campaigns on GMOs, deforestation, pollution and climate change, leading mass global pressure against companies such as Nestlé, Tata Group, Volkswagen, Mattel or McDonald's, using subvertising, internet activism, mobile campaigns and other creative confrontational tactics in United States, United Kingdom, Japan, China, India, Russia, Brazil, Turkey and in the Netherlands. A political TV show called him \"the man who shakes companies\" \n\nHe also advised indigenous movements and communities opposed to mining, paper mills and agribusiness in Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay.\n\nIn February 2012 Soria left Greenpeace International to join the global group WWF in its world's headquarters in Switzerland where he led social media campaigns against illegal wildlife trade and climate change.\n\nAfter two years in WWF International, Soria left the organisation and joined the advocacy operations of Avaaz in the United States to work on a broader agenda.\n\nRepresenting Avaaz, Soria has pushed for reaching an agreement on a Global Compact on Migration and in a UNESCO conference he made a plea to religious and civil society leaders to keep political pressure on world leaders: \"There’s a painful exodus happening, where millions of the poorest of the poor are displaced by wars and environmental crises. They lost everything. An immense diaspora is seeking hope and a better future, and in that ordeal they often meet stigmatization, rejection, humiliation, slavery and even the very death they sought to escape. During my adult life, I have met many refugees and displaced people. In spite of their grief and desolation, behind their loss of hope, there’s a spirit of determination and overcoming. Despite their despair, many haven’t given up and they have dreams. And if they haven’t given up, how on Earth do we have the right to give up?\"\n\nSoria has also advocated for a stronger Catholic leadership on refugees, praising the decision of Pope Francis to wash the feet of the refugees during Easter in 2016, while calling for a political solution to the migrant crisis in Europe. He said Pope's gesture was \"a very important message to world leaders.\" Few days later, in an opinion piece in La Nación, Soria called on Argentina's president Mauricio Macri to take more leadership on refugee policy.\n\nIn August 2017, in an interview with Vice, Soria criticized the tactics of the right wing group Defend Europe against refugees in the Mediterranean Sea. The C-Star, a vessel of rented by the identitarian group, originally planned to land at Catania's harbor and prevent NGO ships from assisting migrants in danger, but the operation was aborted after citizens, unions, migrant workers, faith groups and Avaaz activists blocked the port. Soria later said, \"Our lawyers, who had examined the legal position, wanted authorities to know that they not only had the power to close the port, but should do so in order to prevent the C-Star from frustrating efforts to rescue refugees at risk at sea.\"\n\nSoria has written dozens of articles about activism and progressive causes, mainly in Spanish. He appears regularly or contributes to CNN En Español, New York Times, Vatican Radio, Vice, La Nación, Clarín and Página/12.\n\nSoria was mostly awarded for his investigative work on human rights and environmental issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "23287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23287", "title": "Passport", "text": "Passport\n\nA passport is a travel document, usually issued by a country's government, that certifies the identity and nationality of its holder primarily for the purpose of international travel. Standard passports may contain information such as the holder's name, place and date of birth, photograph, signature, and other identifying information. Many countries are moving towards including biometric information in a microchip embedded in the passport, making them machine-readable and difficult to counterfeit. , there are over 120 jurisdictions issuing these e-Passports. Previously issued passports usually remain valid until each expires.\n\nA passport holder is normally entitled to enter the country that issued the passport, though some people entitled to a passport may not be full citizens with right of abode. A passport does not of itself create any rights in the country being visited or obligate the issue country in any way, such as providing consular assistance. Some passports attest to status as a diplomat or other official, entitled to rights and privileges such as immunity from arrest or prosecution.\n\nMany countries normally allow entry to holders of passports of other countries, sometimes requiring a visa also to be obtained, but this is not an automatic right. Many other additional conditions, such as not being likely to become a public charge for financial or other reasons, and the holder not having been convicted of a crime, may apply. Where a country does not recognise another, or is in dispute with it, it may prohibit the use of their passport for travel to that other country, or may prohibit entry to holders of that other country's passports, and sometimes to others who have, for example, visited the other country.\n\nSome countries and international organisations issue travel documents which are not standard passports, but enable the holder to travel internationally to countries that recognise the documents. For example, stateless persons are not normally issued a national passport, but may be able to obtain a refugee travel document or the earlier \"Nansen passport\" which enables them to travel to countries which recognise the document, and sometimes to return to the issuing country.\n\nPassports are often requested in other circumstances to confirm identification such as checking in to a hotel or when changing money to a local currency.\n\nOne of the earliest known references to paperwork that served in a role similar to that of a passport is found in the Hebrew Bible. , dating from approximately 450 BC, states that Nehemiah, an official serving King Artaxerxes I of Persia, asked permission to travel to Judea; the king granted leave and gave him a letter \"to the governors beyond the river\" requesting safe passage for him as he traveled through their lands.\n\nPassports were an important part of the Chinese bureaucracy as early as the Western Han, if not in the Qin Dynasty. They required such details as age, height, and bodily features. These passports (\"zhuan\") determined a person's ability to move throughout imperial counties and through points of control. Even children needed passports, but those of one year or less who were in their mother's care might not have needed them.\n\nIn the medieval Islamic Caliphate, a form of passport was the \"bara'a\", a receipt for taxes paid. Only people who paid their \"zakah\" (for Muslims) or \"jizya\" (for dhimmis) taxes were permitted to travel to different regions of the Caliphate; thus, the \"bara'a\" receipt was a \"traveler's basic passport.\"\n\nEtymological sources show that the term \"passport\" is from a medieval document that was required in order to pass through the gate (or \"porte\") of a city wall or to pass through a territory. In medieval Europe, such documents were issued to foreign travelers by local authorities (as opposed to local citizens, as is the modern practice) and generally contained a list of towns and cities the document holder was permitted to enter or pass through. On the whole, documents were not required for travel to sea ports, which were considered open trading points, but documents were required to travel inland from sea ports.\n\nKing Henry V of England is credited with having invented what some consider the first passport in the modern sense, as a means of helping his subjects prove who they were in foreign lands. The earliest reference to these documents is found in a 1414 Act of Parliament. In 1540, granting travel documents in England became a role of the Privy Council of England, and it was around this time that the term \"passport\" was used. In 1794, issuing British passports became the job of the Office of the Secretary of State. The 1548 Imperial Diet of Augsburg required the public to hold imperial documents for travel, at the risk of permanent exile.\n\nA rapid expansion of railway infrastructure and wealth in Europe beginning in the mid-nineteenth century led to large increases in the volume of international travel and a consequent unique dilution of the passport system for approximately thirty years prior to World War I. The speed of trains, as well as the number of passengers that crossed multiple borders, made enforcement of passport laws difficult. The general reaction was the relaxation of passport requirements. In the later part of the nineteenth century and up to World War I, passports were not required, on the whole, for travel within Europe, and crossing a border was a relatively straightforward procedure. Consequently, comparatively few people held passports.\n\nDuring World War I, European governments introduced border passport requirements for security reasons, and to control the emigration of people with useful skills. These controls remained in place after the war, becoming a standard, though controversial, procedure. British tourists of the 1920s complained, especially about attached photographs and physical descriptions, which they considered led to a \"nasty dehumanization\".\n\nIn 1920, the League of Nations held a conference on passports, the Paris Conference on Passports & Customs Formalities and Through Tickets. Passport guidelines and a general booklet design resulted from the conference, which was followed up by conferences in 1926 and 1927.\n\nWhile the United Nations held a travel conference in 1963, no passport guidelines resulted from it. Passport standardization came about in 1980, under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). ICAO standards include those for machine-readable passports. Such passports have an area where some of the information otherwise written in textual form is written as strings of alphanumeric characters, printed in a manner suitable for optical character recognition. This enables border controllers and other law enforcement agents to process these passports more quickly, without having to input the information manually into a computer. ICAO publishes Doc 9303 \"Machine Readable Travel Documents\", the technical standard for machine-readable passports. A more recent standard is for biometric passports. These contain biometrics to authenticate the identity of travellers. The passport's critical information is stored on a tiny RFID computer chip, much like information stored on smartcards. Like some smartcards, the passport booklet design calls for an embedded contactless chip that is able to hold digital signature data to ensure the integrity of the passport and the biometric data.\n\nHistorically, legal authority to issue passports is founded on the exercise of each country's executive discretion (or Crown prerogative). Certain legal tenets follow, namely: first, passports are issued in the name of the state; second, no person has a legal right to be issued a passport; third, each country's government, in exercising its executive discretion, has complete and unfettered discretion to refuse to issue or to revoke a passport; and fourth, that the latter discretion is not subject to judicial review. However, legal scholars including A.J. Arkelian have argued that evolutions in both the constitutional law of democratic countries and the international law applicable to all countries now render those historical tenets both obsolete and unlawful.\n\nUnder some circumstances some countries allow people to hold more than one passport document. This may apply, for example, to people who travel a lot on business, and may need to have, say, a passport to travel on while another is awaiting a visa for another country. The UK for example may issue a second passport if the applicant can show a need and supporting documentation, such as a letter from an employer.\n\nMany countries issue only one passport to each national (an exception is the Family Passport, see below under \"Types\"). When passport holders apply for a new passport (commonly, due to expiration of an old passport or lack of blank pages), they may be required to surrender the old passport for invalidation. In some circumstances an expired passport is not required to be surrendered or invalidated (for example, if it contains an unexpired visa).\n\nUnder the law of most countries, passports are government property, and may be limited or revoked at any time, usually on specified grounds, and possibly subject to judicial review. In many countries, surrender of the passport is a condition of granting bail in lieu of imprisonment for a pending criminal trial.\n\nEach country sets its own conditions for the issue of passports. For example, Pakistan requires applicants to be interviewed before a Pakistani passport will be granted. When applying for a passport or a national ID card, all Pakistanis are required to sign an oath declaring Mirza Ghulam Ahmad to be an impostor prophet and all Ahmadis to be non-Muslims.\n\nSome countries limit the issuance of passports, where incoming and outgoing international travels are highly regulated, such as North Korea, where general use passports are the privilege of a very small number of people trusted by the government. Other countries put requirements on some citizens in order to be granted passports, such as Finland, where male citizens aged 18–30 years must prove that they have completed, or are exempt from, their obligatory military service to be granted an unrestricted passport; otherwise a passport is issued valid only until the end of their 28th year, to ensure that they return to carry out military service. Other countries with obligatory military service, such as Syria, have similar requirements.\n\nPassports contain a statement of the nationality of the holder. In most countries, only one class of nationality exists, and only one type of ordinary passport is issued. However, several types of exceptions exist:\n\nThe United Kingdom has a number of classes of United Kingdom nationality due to its colonial history. As a result, the UK issues various passports which are similar in appearance but representative of different nationality statuses which, in turn, has caused foreign governments to subject holders of different UK passports to different entry requirements.\n\nThe People's Republic of China (PRC) authorizes its Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau to issue passports to their permanent residents with Chinese nationality under the \"one country, two systems\" arrangement. Visa policies imposed by foreign authorities on Hong Kong and Macau permanent residents holding such passports are different from those holding ordinary passports of the People's Republic of China. A Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport (HKSAR passport) permits visa-free access to many more countries than ordinary PRC passports.\n\nThe three constituent countries of the Danish Realm have a common nationality. Denmark proper is a member of the European Union, but Greenland and Faroe Islands are not. Danish citizens residing in Greenland or Faroe Islands can choose between holding a Danish EU passport and a Greenlandic or Faroese non-EU Danish passport.\n\nIn rare instances a nationality is available through investment. Some investors have been described in Tongan passports as 'a Tongan protected person', a status which does not necessarily carry with it the right of abode in Tonga.\n\nSeveral entities without a sovereign territory issue documents described as passports, most notably Iroquois League, the Aboriginal Provisional Government in Australia and the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. Such documents are not necessarily accepted for entry into a country.\n\nPassports have a limited validity, usually between 5 and 10 years.Many countries require a remaining passport validity of no less than six months on arrival, as well as having at least two to four blank pages.\n\nOne method to measure the 'value' of a passport is to calculate its 'visa-free score' (VFS), which is the number of countries that allow the holder of that passport entry for general tourism without requiring a visa. The strongest and weakest passports are as follows:\nA rough standardization exists in types of passports throughout the world, although passport types, number of pages and definitions can vary by country.\n\n\nNon-citizens in Latvia and Estonia are individuals, primarily of Russian or Ukrainian ethnicity, who are not citizens of Latvia or Estonia but whose families have resided in the area since the Soviet era, and thus have the right to a non-citizen passport issued by the Latvian government as well as other specific rights. Approximately two thirds of them are ethnic Russians, followed by ethnic Belarusians, ethnic Ukrainians, ethnic Poles and ethnic Lithuanians.\n\nNon-citizens in the two countries are issued special non-citizen passports as opposed to regular passports issued by the Estonian and Latvian authorities to citizens.\n\nAlthough all U.S. citizens are also U.S. nationals, the reverse is not true. As specified in , a person whose only connection to the U.S. is through birth in an outlying possession (which is defined in as American Samoa and Swains Island, the latter of which is administered as part of American Samoa), or through descent from a person so born, acquires U.S. nationality but not U.S. citizenship. This was formerly the case in only four other current or former U.S. overseas possessions.\n\nThe U.S. passport issued to non-citizen nationals contains the endorsement code 9 which states: \"THE BEARER IS A UNITED STATES NATIONAL AND NOT A UNITED STATES CITIZEN.\" on the annotations page.\n\nNon-citizen U.S. nationals may reside and work in the United States without restrictions, and may apply for citizenship under the same rules as resident aliens. Like resident aliens, they are not presently allowed by any U.S. state to vote in federal or state elections, although, as with resident aliens, there is no constitutional prohibition against their doing so.\n\nDue to the complexity of British nationality law, the United Kingdom has six variants of British nationality. Out of these variants, however, only the status known as British citizen grants the right of abode in a particular country or territory (the United Kingdom) while others do not. Hence, the UK issues British passports to those who are British nationals but not British citizens, which include British Overseas Territories citizens, British Overseas citizens, British subjects, British Nationals (Overseas) and British Protected Persons.\n\nChildren born in Andorra to foreign residents who have not yet resided in the country for a minimum of 10 years are provided a provisional passport. Once the child reaches 18 years old he or she must confirm their nationality to the Government.\n\n\nFor some countries, passports are required for some types of travel between their sovereign territories. Two examples of this are:\n\n\nInternal passports are issued by some countries as an identity document. An example is the internal passport of Russia or certain other post-Soviet countries dating back to imperial times. Some countries use internal passports for controlling migration within a country. In some countries, the \"international passport\" or \"passport for travel abroad\" is a second passport, in addition to the internal passport, required for a citizen to travel abroad within the country of residence.\nSeparate passports for travel abroad existed or exist in the following countries:\n\nThe International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) issues passport standards which are treated as recommendations to national governments. The size of passport booklets normally complies with the ISO/IEC 7810 ID-3 standard, which specifies a size of 125 × 88 mm (4.921 × 3.465 in). This size is the B7 format. Passport cards are issued to the ID-1 (credit card sized) standard.\n\n\nPassport booklets from almost all countries around the world display the national coat of arms of the issuing country on the front cover. The United Nations keeps a record of national coats of arms.\n\nThere are several groups of countries, who through mutual agreement, have adopted common designs for the passports of their respective countries:\n\n\nPassports sometimes contain a message, usually near the front, requesting that the passport's bearer be allowed to pass freely, and further requesting that, in the event of need, the bearer be granted assistance. The message is sometimes made in the name of the government or the head of state, and may be written in more than one language, depending on the language policies of the issuing authority.\n\nIn 1920, an international conference on passports and through tickets held by the League of Nations recommended that passports be issued in French, historically the language of diplomacy, and one other language. Currently, the ICAO recommends that passports be issued in English and French, or in the national language of the issuing country and in either English or French. Many European countries use their national language, along with English and French.\n\nSome unusual language combinations are:\n\nFor immigration control, officials of many countries use entry and exit stamps. Depending on the country, a stamp can serve different purposes. For example, in the United Kingdom, an immigration stamp in a passport includes the formal leave to enter granted to a person subject to entry control. In other countries, a stamp activates or acknowledges the continuing leave conferred in the passport bearer's entry clearance.\n\nUnder the Schengen system, a foreign passport is stamped with a date stamp which does not indicate any duration of stay. This means that the person is deemed to have permission to remain either for three months or for the period shown on his visa if specified otherwise.\n\nVisas often take the form of an inked stamp, although some countries use adhesive stickers that incorporate security features to discourage forgery.\n\nMember states of the European Union are not permitted to place a stamp in the passport of a person who is not subject to immigration control. Stamping is prohibited because it is an imposition of a control that the person is not subject to.\n\nCountries usually have different styles of stamps for entries and exits, to make it easier to identify the movements of people. Ink color might be used to designate mode of transportation (air, land or sea), such as in Hong Kong prior to 1997; while border styles did the same thing in Macau. Other variations include changing the size of the stamp to indicate length of stay, as in Singapore.\n\nImmigration stamps are a useful reminder of travels. Some travellers \"collect\" immigration stamps in passports, and will choose to enter or exit countries via different means (for example, land, sea or air) in order to have different stamps in their passports. Some countries, such as Liechtenstein, that do not stamp passports may provide a passport stamp on request for such \"memory\" purposes. Monaco (at its tourist office) and Andorra (at its border) do this as well. These are official stamps issued by government offices. However, some private enterprises may for a price stamp passports at historic sites and these have no legal standing. It is possible that such memorial stamps can preclude the passport bearer from travelling to certain countries. For example, Finland consistently rejects what they call 'falsified passports', where travelers have been refused visas or entry due to memorial stamps and are required to renew their passports.\n\nA passport is merely an identity document that is widely recognised for international travel purposes, and the possession of a passport does not in itself entitle a traveller to enter any country other than the country that issued it, and sometimes not even then. Many countries normally require visitors to obtain a visa. Each country has different requirements or conditions for the grant of visas, such as for the visitor not being likely to become a public charge for financial, health, family, or other reasons, and the holder not having been convicted of a crime or considered likely to commit one.\n\nWhere a country does not recognise another, or is in dispute with it, entry may be prohibited to holders of passports of the other party to the dispute, and sometimes to others who have, for example, visited the other country; examples are listed below. A country that issues a passport may also restrict its validity or use in specified circumstances, such as use for travel to certain countries for political, security or health reasons.\n\n\n\n\n\nInternational travel is possible without passports in some circumstances. Nonetheless, a document stating citizenship, such as a national identity card or an Enhanced Drivers License, is usually required.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4093536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4093536", "title": "Paul Hunt (academic)", "text": "Paul Hunt (academic)\n\nPaul Hunt, a New Zealand and British national, is a human rights scholar-activist who specialises in economic, social and cultural rights. A Professor of Law at the Human Rights Centre, University of Essex (UK), he has held senior UN appointments, including Rapporteur of the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (1999–2002), UN Special Rapporteur on the right to the highest attainable standard of health (2002–2008) and Senior Human Rights Advisor to the Assistant Director-General, World Health Organization, Flavia Bustreo (2011–2013). He is a Visiting Professor at the University of Waikato, New Zealand/Aotearoa.\n\nHunt is a New Zealand and British national. For most of his formative years, he lived in Essex, Suffolk and Norfolk (UK). In 1979, he graduated from Cambridge University (UK) with a law degree. In 1995, he was awarded a Masters of Jurisprudence (1st Class Hons) by the University of Waikato (New Zealand). In 2008, he was given an Honorary Doctorate by the Nordic School of Public Health. Since 2000, he has lived in Wivenhoe, Essex.\nIn 1982, Hunt qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales. Between 1982 and 1985, he worked for Kingsley Napley (London) as a civil and criminal litigation solicitor, and assistant to the Senior Partner, Sir David Napley, formerly President of the Law Society. During this period, Hunt was elected to the National Council of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.\n\nIn 1985, Hunt left private practice and became a human rights lawyer in Israel/Palestine working for Quaker Peace and Service (now Quaker Peace and Social Witness). Between 1985 and 1987, he lived in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and researched the Israeli Military Courts. Published in 1987, \"Justice? The Military Court System in the Israeli-Occupied Territories\", examined the Military Courts through the 'lens' of Israel's international human rights obligations.\n\nOn his return to the UK, Hunt worked with Sydney Bailey on an inter-denominational project about human rights in Britain and Ireland. The project included Mary Robinson, shortly to become the President of Ireland, and David Trimble, shortly to become leader of the Ulster Unionist Party and First Minister of Northern Ireland. The project led to \"Human Rights and Responsibilities in Britain and Ireland\", edited by Bailey, and a shorter version, \"A Christian Perspective on Human Rights and Responsibilities: with Special Reference to Northern Ireland\", edited by Hunt.\n\nBetween 1987–1990, Hunt worked for the National Council for Civil Liberties/Liberty (UK) as Legal Officer, Head of the Legal and Campaign Team and Acting general secretary. He conducted national and international human rights cases, including litigation in Strasbourg under the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition to prisoners' rights, he worked on the lawfulness of Northern Ireland's emergency laws. and was responsible for one of the earliest publications in favour of incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights into UK law.\n\nBetween 1990–1992, Hunt was appointed Associate Director of the African Centre for Democracy and Human Rights Studies (Gambia), working under Raymond Sock (formerly Solicitor-General) and Hassan Jallow (then Minister of Justice). The Centre paralleled and monitored the new Gambian-based African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights established under the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights. With Jallow, Hunt co-authored one of the first publications on HIV/AIDS and human rights in Africa, as well as research on African national human rights institutions, and children's rights in the Gambia.\n\nBetween 1992–2000, Hunt was senior lecturer at the University of Waikato, New Zealand. The focus of his teaching and research was national and international public law, especially human rights. He began to specialise in economic, social and cultural rights and his study, \"Reclaiming Social Rights: International and Comparative Perspectives\", was published in 1996. This was one of the first books published on social rights. Reviewing it in the \"Human Rights Quarterly\", Barbara Stark remarked upon the book’s ambition and concluded, “Hunt succeeds brilliantly” and that the study \"dazzles\".\n\nAt the University of Waikato, Hunt looked at human rights in New Zealand and the South Pacific, including the relationship between culture and rights, as well as the rights of indigenous peoples, which led to scholarship such as \"Culture, Rights and Cultural Rights: Perspectives from the South Pacific\", co-edited with Margaret Wilson. Between 1996–97, he was a Visiting Fellow at the Harvard Law School Human Rights Program. In 2000, Hunt, Janet McLean, Bill Mansfield and Peter Cooper were commissioned by New Zealand's Attorney-General to prepare an independent report on the country's national human rights institutions. Many of their recommendations have been implemented by legislative and other reforms.\n\nIn 2000, Hunt was appointed Professor of Law at the Human Rights Centre, University of Essex (UK), a position he still holds. At Essex, his teaching and research focus is national and international human rights, with a particular emphasis on economic, social and cultural rights, as well as human rights and development. He has served as Director of the Human Rights Centre and Chair of the Democratic Audit. Presently, he leads the health-rights work stream of the University's Human Rights, \"Big Data and Technology Project\", funded by the UK's Economic and Social Research Council.\n\nIn 1998, the New Zealand Government nominated Hunt to serve as an independent expert on the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in Geneva, and he was duly elected by States. He served as the Committee's Rapporteur from 1999 to 2002. During this period, the Committee adopted several influential commentaries, known as General Comments, on economic, social and cultural rights, including on the right to adequate food,right to education, right to the highest attainable standard of health,and right to water.It also adopted some statements, including one on poverty and human rights, which broke new ground. These General Comments and statements have contributed to the growth of literature, and national and international initiatives, on economic, social and cultural rights since the turn of the century.\n\nIn light of the Committee's statement on poverty, Mary Robinson, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, asked Hunt, Manfred Nowak and Siddiq Osmani to draft detailed and operational guidance on a human rights-based approach to poverty reduction. They responded by writing \"Human Rights and Poverty Reduction: A Conceptual Framework\", followed by \"Draft Guidelines: A Human Rights Approach to Poverty Reduction Strategies\", both of which were published by the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). After a period of consultation, OHCHR revised the \"Draft Guidelines\" and they were published as \"Principles and Guidelines for a Human Rights Approach to Poverty Reduction Strategies\".\n\nIn 2002, Hunt stepped down from the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and was appointed the first UN Special Rapporteur on the right to the highest attainable standard of health ('right to health'). In this independent capacity, he reported, orally and in writing, to the UN General Assembly, UN Commission on Human Rights and UN Human Rights Council. He submitted thematic reports on a wide range of right to health issues, such as sexual and reproductive health, neglected diseases, mental disability, maternal mortality, and the health-rights responsibilities of pharmaceutical companies. He also visited, and wrote right to health reports on, countries, including India, Peru, Sweden, and Uganda. Hunt took the unorthodox step of undertaking visits to, and preparing right to health reports on, non-state actors, such as the World Trade Organization, World Bank and International Monetary Fund, and GlaxoSmithKline. Also, he prepared reports with other Rapporteurs on Guantanamo Bay, as well as the Lebanon/Israel conflict of 2006. Many people wrote to Hunt with alleged violations of their right to health and he took up some of these complaints and subsequently reported to the UN about them.\nHis reports have elicited a wide response, for example, in 2005, Cynthia Rothschild discussed the report on sexual and reproductive health, \"Hunt's 2004 report is certainly one of the UN system's most far-reaching documents to incorporate a focus on sexual orientation and gender identity and health\". Some commentators called the report “shocking” and Hunt was branded “unprofessional” in the UN Commission on Human Rights.\nOn maternal death and morbidity, Sandeep Prasad wrote, it \"was [Hunt] who first started bringing the human rights dimensions of the issue of maternal mortality to the attention of the [UN Human Rights] Council as a global health and human rights crisis.\" Following a press conference in Delhi at the end of his visit to India, during which he focussed on maternal mortality in Rajasthan and Maharashtra, the \"Indian Express\" devoted an editorial to the issue, reflected on Hunt’s findings, and agreed with his conclusion that “the situation does not befit a country of India’s stature and level of development.” \n\nFollowing Hunt’s report on Peru, Ariel Frisancho Arroyo remarked upon “[t]he key role\" played by Hunt in \"supporting the health authorities' interest on how to increase the realization of health-rights\". Following his report on Sweden, scholars wrote, “Since Hunt’s report and the resulting [Right to Health Care Initiative], most county councils have issued more generous guiding principles for the health care of local undocumented patients.\" In an editorial, \"The Lancet\" commended Hunt's thematic report on the health-rights responsibilities of pharmaceutical companies, as well as his twin report on GlaxoSmithKline. Hunt devoted three UN thematic reports to the methodological problem of how to measure the progressive realisation of the right to health and their influence is manifest in the key OHCHR publication \"Human Rights Indicators: A Guide to Measurement and Implementation\". He drew on several of his UN reports to co-author a major study on health systems and the right to health which was described by \"The Lancet\" as a “landmark” report.\n\nHunt’s reports, such as his studies on Peru and Uganda, demonstrate constructive engagement with the World Health Organization (WHO). In 2008, during his last oral report to the UN Human Rights Council as Special Rapporteur, Hunt acknowledged this co-operation but also emphasised its limits: “Over the last six years, I have enjoyed excellent cooperation with a number of WHO members of staff on a range of policy and operational issues. For this, I am extremely grateful. However, to the best of my knowledge, neither the World Health Assembly, nor the WHO Executive Board, have ever considered one of my reports. Despite requests, I have never met a WHO Director General since my appointment in 2002.” \n\nHowever, between 2011–2013, Hunt was appointed as a part-time Senior Human Rights Advisor to the Assistant Director-General, WHO, Flavia Bustreo, and he directed a project which researched whether there was evidence of impact of a human rights approach to health. This interdisciplinary and multi-author research concluded that applying human rights to women’s and children’s health policies and other interventions “not only helps governments comply with their binding national and international obligations, but also contributes to improving the health of women and children.” In 2015, Hunt co-edited a Special Issue of Harvard’s \"Health and Human Rights Journal\" which deepened analysis of this topic. \nIn September 2010, Hunt co-organised an international roundtable in Geneva on maternal mortality, human rights and accountability, and the proceedings were subsequently published. In this roundtable, and in a paper he presented at an international conference in Delhi during November 2010, Hunt began to analyse accountability as having three components: monitoring, review and remedy. This analysis was novel because, in the context of global health, accountability was usually understood as monitoring and evaluation, without the components of either independent review or remedy.\n\nIn 2010–11, Hunt sat on a Working Group of the UN Commission on Information and Accountability on Women’s and Children’s Health (COIA). The Working Group refined Hunt’s conception of accountability in its submission to COIA. In its final report, \"Keeping Promises, Measuring Results\", COIA adopted this understanding of accountability. This conception of accountability shaped COIA’s recommendations to the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, and led to the Secretary-General establishing the independent Expert Review Group on Information and Accountability for Women's and Children's Health (iERG). The iERG sat from 2011 to 2015 and was succeeded by the Independent Accountability Panel which largely shares COIA's understanding of accountability. In 2015, Julian Schweitzer wrote on the \"British Medical Journal (BMJ)\" that the COIA's \"definition of accountability – a cyclical process of monitoring, review, and action … – is now widely accepted in global health\". Hunt was the main architect of this conception of accountability in global health.\n\nHunt has recently turned his attention to social rights in the UK. In 2014–15, he sat on the statutory human rights inquiry into emergency health care established by the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission. He has joined the Board of the National Health Service (NHS) England initiative, \"Sexual and Reproductive Health Rights, Inclusion and Empowerment\" (SHRINE). He has been appointed a Patron of \"Just Fair\", a London-based think-tank on economic and social rights. With Ruth Lister, Baroness Lister of Burtersett he has written for the think-tank, \"Compass\", on social rights in the UK. In 2017 the Centre for Welfare Reform published Hunt's \"Social Rights are Human Rights - but the UK System is Rigged\". In 2018, Hunt was appointed by Nicola Sturgeon, First Minister of Scotland, to her Advisory Group on Human Rights Leadership. The Advisory Group is due to report in December 2018. On 2 October 2018, the New Zealand Minister of Justice Andrew Little (New Zealand politician) announced Hunt's appointment as the Chief Human Rights Commissioner for New Zealand. He will take up the role of Chief Human Rights Commissioner in January 2019. \n\nHunt has provided expert testimony to the European Court of Human Rights, via the Centre for Reproductive Rights, and Inter-American Court of Human Rights. In 1999–2000, he sat on the Advisory Panel of the UNDP Human Development Report, Human Rights and Human Development. He was one of the drafters of, and signatories to, the \"Yokyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity\" in 2006. In 2008, he co-founded the International Initiative on Maternal Mortality and Human Rights. Between 2009–2011, he sat on UNFPA’s External Advisory Panel. Hunt sits on the Editorial Boards of the \"Health and Human Rights Journal\" and \"International Journal on Human Rights and Drug Policy\".\n\nIn 2008 Hunt was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Nordic School of Public Health.\n\nIn 2014, he gave a TEDx talk, \"Equality – the Road Less Travelled\". In this he argues that the realisation of social rights, such as those in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), has a major contribution to make towards the enjoyment of substantive equality for all.\n\n\"Reclaiming Social Rights: International and Comparative Perspectives\" (Dartmouth, 1996)\n\nwith Margaret Wilson (eds.) \"Culture, Rights and Cultural Rights: Perspectives from the South Pacific\" (Huia, 2000)\n\nwith Willem van Genugten and Susan Mathews (eds.), \"World Bank, IMF and Human Rights: Including The Tilburg Guiding Principles on World Bank, IMF and human rights\" (Nijmegen, 2003)\n\nwith Tony Gray (eds.), \"Maternal Mortality, Human Rights and Accountability\" (Routledge, 2013)\n\nwith Flavia Bustreo et al., \"Women's and Children's Health: Evidence of Impact of Human Rights\" (World Health Organization, 2013)\n\n\"Social Rights are Human Rights - but the UK System is Rigged\" (Centre for Welfare Reform, 2017) . \n"}
{"id": "1243554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1243554", "title": "Pharmacovigilance", "text": "Pharmacovigilance\n\nPharmacovigilance (PV or PhV), also known as drug safety, is the pharmacological science relating to the \"collection, detection, assessment, monitoring, and prevention\" of adverse effects with pharmaceutical products. The etymological roots for the word \"pharmacovigilance\" are: \"pharmakon\" (Greek for drug) and \"vigilare\" (Latin for to keep watch). As such, pharmacovigilance heavily focuses on adverse drug reactions, or ADRs, which are defined as any response to a drug which is noxious and unintended, including lack of efficacy (the condition that this definition only applies with the doses normally used for the prophylaxis, diagnosis or therapy of disease, or for the modification of physiological disorder function was excluded with the latest amendment of the applicable legislation). Medication errors such as overdose, and misuse and abuse of a drug as well as drug exposure during pregnancy and breastfeeding, are also of interest, even without an adverse event, because they may result in an adverse drug reaction.\n\nInformation received from patients and healthcare providers via pharmacovigilance agreements (PVAs), as well as other sources such as the medical literature, plays a critical role in providing the data necessary for pharmacovigilance to take place. In fact, in order to market or to test a pharmaceutical product in most countries, adverse event data received by the license holder (usually a pharmaceutical company) must be submitted to the local drug regulatory authority. \"(See Adverse event reporting below.)\"\n\nUltimately, pharmacovigilance is concerned with identifying the hazards associated with pharmaceutical products and with minimizing the risk of any harm that may come to patients. Companies must conduct a comprehensive drug safety and pharmacovigilance audit to assess their compliance with worldwide laws, regulations, and guidance.\n\nPharmacovigilance has its own unique terminology that is important to understand. Most of the following terms are used within this article and are peculiar to drug safety, although some are used by other disciplines within the pharmaceutical sciences as well.\n\n\nThe activity that is most commonly associated with pharmacovigilance (PV), and which consumes a significant amount of resources for drug regulatory authorities (or similar government agencies) and drug safety departments in pharmaceutical companies, is that of adverse event reporting. Adverse event (AE) reporting involves the receipt, triage, data entering, assessment, distribution, reporting (if appropriate), and archiving of AE data and documentation. The source of AE reports may include: spontaneous reports from healthcare professionals or patients (or other intermediaries); solicited reports from patient support programs; reports from clinical or post-marketing studies; reports from literature sources; reports from the media (including social media and websites); and reports reported to drug regulatory authorities themselves. For pharmaceutical companies, AE reporting is a regulatory requirement in most countries. AE reporting also provides data to these companies and drug regulatory authorities that play a key role in assessing the risk-benefit profile of a given drug. The following are several facets of AE reporting:\n\nOne of the fundamental principles of adverse event reporting is the determination of what constitutes an Individual Case Safety Report (ICSR). During the triage phase of a potential adverse event report, it is important to determine if the \"four elements\" of a valid ICSR are present: (1) an identifiable patient, (2) an identifiable reporter, (3) a suspect drug, and (4) an adverse event.\n\nIf one or more of these four elements is missing, the case is not a valid ICSR. Although there are no exceptions to this rule there may be circumstances that may require a judgment call. For example, the term \"identifiable\" may not always be clear-cut. If a physician reports that he/she has a patient X taking drug Y who experienced Z (an AE), but refuses to provide any specifics about patient X, the report is still a valid case even though the patient is not specifically identified. This is because the reporter has first-hand information about the patient and is \"identifiable\" (i.e. a real person) to the physician. Identifiability is important so as not only to prevent duplicate reporting of the same case, but also to permit follow-up for additional information.\n\nThe concept of identifiability also applies to the other three elements. Although uncommon, it is not unheard of for fictitious adverse event \"cases\" to be reported to a company by an anonymous individual (or on behalf of an anonymous patient, disgruntled employee, or former employee) trying to damage the company's reputation or a company's product. In these and all other situations, the source of the report should be ascertained (if possible). But anonymous reporting is also important, as whistle blower protection is not granted in all countries. In general, the drug must also be specifically named. Note that in different countries and regions of the world, drugs are sold under various tradenames. In addition, there are a large number of generics which may be mistaken for the trade product. Finally, there is the problem of counterfeit drugs producing adverse events. If at all possible, it is best to try to obtain the sample which induced the adverse event, and send it to either the EMA, FDA or other government agency responsible for investigating AE reports.\n\nIf a reporter can't recall the name of the drug they were taking when they experienced an adverse event, this would not be a valid case. This concept also applies to adverse events. If a patient states that they experienced \"symptoms\", but cannot be more specific, such a report might technically be considered valid, but will be of very limited value to the pharmacovigilance department of the company or to drug regulatory authorities.\n\nAdverse event coding is the process by which information from an AE reporter, called the \"verbatim\", is coded using standardized terminology from a medical coding dictionary, such as MedDRA (the most commonly used medical coding dictionary). The purpose of medical coding is to convert adverse event information into terminology that can be readily identified and analyzed. For instance, Patient 1 may report that they had experienced \"a very bad headache that felt like their head was being hit by a hammer\" [Verbatim 1] when taking Drug X. Or, Patient 2 may report that they had experienced a \"slight, throbbing headache that occurred daily at about two in the afternoon\" [Verbatim 2] while taking Drug Y. Neither Verbatim 1 nor Verbatim 2 will exactly match a code in the MedDRA coding dictionary. However, both quotes describe different manifestations of a headache. As a result, in this example both quotes would be coded as PT Headache (PT = Preferred Term in MedDRA).\n\nAlthough somewhat intuitive, there are a set of criteria within pharmacovigilance that are used to distinguish a serious adverse event from a non-serious one. An adverse event is considered serious if it meets one or more of the following criteria:\n\nAside from death, each of these categories is subject to some interpretation. Life-threatening, as it used in the drug safety world, specifically refers to an adverse event that places the patient at an \"immediate risk of death\", such as cardiac or respiratory arrest. By this definition, events such as myocardial infarction, which would be hypothetically life-threatening, would not be considered life-threatening unless the patient went into cardiac arrest following the MI. Defining what constitutes hospitalization can be problematic as well. Although typically straightforward, it's possible for a hospitalization to occur even if the events being treated are not serious. By the same token, serious events may be treated without hospitalization, such as the treatment of anaphylaxis may be successfully performed with epinephrine. Significant disability and incapacity, as a concept, is also subject to debate. While permanent disability following a stroke would no doubt be serious, would \"complete blindness for 30 seconds\" be considered \"significant disability\"? For birth defects, the seriousness of the event is usually not in dispute so much as the attribution of the event to the drug. Finally, \"medically significant events\" is a category that includes events that may be always serious, or sometimes serious, but will not fulfill any of the other criteria. Events such as cancer might always be considered serious, whereas liver disease, depending on its CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) grade—Grades 1 or 2 are generally considered non-serious and Grades 3-5 serious—may be considered non-serious.\n\nThis refers to ICSRs (individual case safety reports) that involve a serious and unlisted event (an event not described in the drug's labeling) that is considered related to the use of the drug. (Spontaneous reports are typically considered to have a positive causality, whereas a clinical trial case will typically be assessed for causality by the clinical trial investigator and/or the license holder.) In most countries, the timeframe for reporting expedited cases is 7/15 calendar days from the time a drug company receives notification (referred to as \"Day 0\") of such a case. Within clinical trials such a case is referred to as a SUSAR (a Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reaction). If the SUSAR involves an event that is life-threatening or fatal, it may be subject to a 7-day \"clock\". Cases that do not involve a serious, unlisted event may be subject to non-expedited or periodic reporting.\n\nAlso known as SAE (serious adverse event) reporting from clinical trials, safety information from clinical studies is used to establish a drug's safety profile in humans and is a key component that drug regulatory authorities consider in the decision-making as to whether to grant or deny market authorization (market approval) for a drug. SAE reporting occurs as a result of study patients (subjects) who experience serious adverse events during the conducting of clinical trials. (Non-serious adverse events are also captured separately.) SAE information, which may also include relevant information from the patient's medical background, are reviewed and assessed for causality by the study investigator. This information is forwarded to a sponsoring entity (typically a pharmaceutical company) that is responsible for the reporting of this information, as appropriate, to drug regulatory authorities.\n\nSpontaneous reports are termed spontaneous as they take place during the clinician's normal diagnostic appraisal of a patient, when the clinician is drawing the conclusion that the drug may be implicated in the causality of the event.\nSpontaneous reporting system relies on vigilant physicians and other healthcare professionals who not only generate a suspicion of an ADR, but also report it. It is an important source of regulatory actions such as taking a drug off the market or a label change due to safety problems.\nSpontaneous reporting is the core data-generating system of international pharmacovigilance, relying on healthcare professionals (and in some countries consumers) to identify and report any adverse events to their national pharmacovigilance center, health authority (such as EMA or FDA), or to the drug manufacturer itself. Spontaneous reports are, by definition, submitted voluntarily although under certain circumstances these reports may be encouraged, or \"stimulated\", by media reports or articles published in medical or scientific publications, or by product lawsuits. In many parts of the world adverse event reports are submitted electronically using a defined message standard.\n\nOne of the major weaknesses of spontaneous reporting is that of under-reporting, where, unlike in clinical trials, less than 100% of those adverse events occurring are reported. Further complicating the assessment of adverse events, AE reporting behavior varies greatly between countries and in relation to the seriousness of the events, but in general probably less than 10% (some studies suggest less than 5%) of all adverse events that occur are actually reported. The rule-of-thumb is that on a scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being least likely to be reported and 10 being the most likely to be reported, an uncomplicated non-serious event such as a mild headache will be closer to a \"0\" on this scale, whereas a life-threatening or fatal event will be closer to a \"10\" in terms of its likelihood of being reported. In view of this, medical personnel may not always see AE reporting as a priority, especially if the symptoms are not serious. And even if the symptoms are serious, the symptoms may not be recognized as a possible side effect of a particular drug or combination thereof. In addition, medical personnel may not feel compelled to report events that are viewed as expected. This is why reports from patients themselves are of high value. The confirmation of these events by a healthcare professional is typically considered to increase the value of these reports. Hence it is important not only for the patient to report the AE to his health care provider (who may neglect to report the AE), but also report the AE to both the biopharmaceutical company and the FDA, EMA, ... This is especially important when one has obtained one's pharmaceutical from a compounding pharmacy.\n\nAs such, spontaneous reports are a crucial element in the worldwide enterprise of pharmacovigilance and form the core of the World Health Organization Database, which includes around 4.6 million reports (January 2009), growing annually by about 250,000.\n\nAggregate reporting, also known as periodic reporting, plays a key role in the safety assessment of drugs. Aggregate reporting involves the compilation of safety data for a drug over a prolonged period of time (months or years), as opposed to single-case reporting which, by definition, involves only individual AE reports. The advantage of aggregate reporting is that it provides a broader view of the safety profile of a drug. Worldwide, the most important aggregate report is the Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) and Development Safety Update Report (DSUR). This is a document that is submitted to drug regulatory agencies in Europe, the US and Japan (ICH countries), as well as other countries around the world. The PSUR was updated in 2012 and is now referred to in many countries as the Periodic Benefit Risk Evaluation report (PBRER). As the title suggests, the PBRER's focus is on the benefit-risk profile of the drug, which includes a review of relevant safety data compiled for a drug product since its development.\n\nSome countries legally oblige spontaneous reporting by physicians. In most countries, manufacturers are required to submit, through its Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance (QPPV), all of the reports they receive from healthcare providers to the national authority. Others have intensive, focused programmes concentrating on new drugs, or on controversial drugs, or on the prescribing habits of groups of doctors, or involving pharmacists in reporting. All of these generate potentially useful information. Such intensive schemes, however, tend to be the exception.\n\nRisk management is the discipline within pharmacovigilance that is responsible for signal detection and the monitoring of the risk-benefit profile of drugs. Other key activities within the area of risk management are that of the compilation of risk management plans (RMPs) and aggregate reports such as the Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR), Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Report (PBRER), and the Development Safety Update Report (DSUR).\n\nOne of the most important, and challenging, problems in pharmacovigilance is that of the determination of causality. Causality refers to the relationship of a given adverse event to a specific drug. Causality determination (or assessment) is often difficult because of the lack of clear-cut or reliable data. While one may assume that a positive temporal relationship might \"prove\" a positive causal relationship, this is not always the case. Indeed, a \"bee sting\" AE—where the AE can clearly be attributed to a specific cause—is by far the exception rather than the rule. This is due to the complexity of human physiology as well as that of disease and illnesses. By this reckoning, in order to determine causality between an adverse event and a drug, one must first exclude the possibility that there were other possible causes or contributing factors. If the patient is on a number of medications, it may be the combination of these drugs which causes the AE, and not any one individually. There have been a number of recent high-profile cases where the AE led to the death of an individual. The individual(s) were not overdosed with any one of the many medications they were taking, but the combination there appeared to cause the AE. Hence it is important to include in your/one's AE report, not only the drug being reported, but also all other drugs the patient was also taking.\n\nFor instance, if a patient were to start Drug X and then three days later were to develop an AE, one might be tempted to attribute blame Drug X. However, before that can be done, the patient's medical history would need to be reviewed to look for possible risk factors for the AE. In other words, did the AE occur with the drug or \"because\" of the drug? This is because a patient on any drug may develop or be diagnosed with a condition that could not have possibly been caused by the drug. This is especially true for diseases, such as cancer, which develop over an extended period of time, being diagnosed in a patient who has been taken a drug for a relatively short period of time. On the other hand, certain adverse events, such as blood clots (thrombosis), can occur with certain drugs with only short-term exposure. Nevertheless, the determination of risk factors is an important step of confirming or ruling-out a causal relationship between an event and a drug.\n\nOften the only way to confirm the existence of a causal relationship of an event to a drug is to conduct an observational study where the incidence of the event in a patient population taking the drug is compared to a control group. This may be necessary to determine if the background incidence of an event is less than that found in a group taking a drug. If the incidence of an event is statistically significantly higher in the \"active\" group versus the placebo group (or other control group), it is possible that a causal relationship may exist to a drug, unless other confounding factors may exist.\n\nSignal detection (SD) involves a range of techniques (CIOMS VIII). The WHO defines a safety signal as: \"Reported information on a possible causal relationship between an adverse event and a drug, the relationship being unknown or incompletely documented previously\". Usually more than a single report is required to generate a signal, depending upon the event and quality of the information available.\n\nData mining pharmacovigilance databases is one approach that has become increasingly popular with the availability of extensive data sources and inexpensive computing resources. The data sources (databases) may be owned by a pharmaceutical company, a drug regulatory authority, or a large healthcare provider. Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) in these databases are retrieved and converted into structured format, and statistical methods (usually a mathematical algorithm) are applied to calculate statistical measures of association. If the statistical measure crosses an arbitrarily set threshold, a signal is declared for a given drug associated with a given adverse event. All signals deemed worthy of investigation, require further analysis using all available data in an attempt to confirm or refute the signal. If the analysis is inconclusive, additional data may be needed such as a post-marketing observational trial.\n\nSD is an essential part of drug use and safety surveillance. Ideally, the goal of SD is to identify ADRs that were previously considered unexpected and to be able to provide guidance in the product's labeling as to how to minimize the risk of using the drug in a given patient population.\n\nA risk management plan (RMP) is a documented plan that describes the risks (adverse drug reactions and potential adverse reactions) associated with the use of a drug and how they are being handled (warning on drug label or on packet inserts of possible side effects which if observed should cause the patient to inform/see his physician and/or pharmacist and/or the manufacturer of the drug and/or the FDA, EMA)). The overall goal of an RMP is to assure a positive risk-benefit profile once the drug is (has been) marketed. The document is required to be submitted, in a specified format, with all new market authorization requests within the European Union (EU). Although not necessarily required, RMPs may also be submitted in countries outside the EU. The risks described in an RMP fall into one of three categories: identified risks, potential risks, and unknown risks. Also described within an RMP are the measures that the Market Authorization Holder, usually a pharmaceutical company, will undertake to minimize the risks associated with the use of the drug. These measures are usually focused on the product's labeling and healthcare professionals. Indeed, the risks that are documented in a pre-authorization RMP will inevitably become part of the product's post-marketing labeling. Since a drug, once authorized, may be used in ways not originally studied in clinical trials, this potential \"off-label use\", and its associated risks, is also described within the RMP. RMPs can be very lengthy documents, running in some cases hundreds of pages and, in rare instances, up to a thousand pages long.\n\nIn the US, under certain circumstances, the FDA may require a company to submit a document called a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) for a drug that has a specific risk that FDA believes requires mitigation. While not as comprehensive as an RMP, a REMS can require a sponsor to perform certain activities or to follow a protocol, referred to as Elements to Assure Safe Use (ETASU), to assure that a positive risk-benefit profile for the drug is maintained for the circumstances under which the product is marketed.\n\nPharmaceutical companies are required by law in most countries to perform clinical trials, testing new drugs on people before they are made generally available. This occurs after a drug has been pre-screened for toxicity, sometimes using animals for testing. The manufacturers or their agents usually select a representative sample of patients for whom the drug is designed – at most a few thousand – along with a comparable control group. The control group may receive a placebo and/or another drug, often a so-called \"gold standard\" that is \"best\" drug marketed for the disease.\n\nThe purpose of clinical trials is to determine:\n\nClinical trials do, in general, tell a good deal about how well a drug works. They provide information that should be reliable for larger populations with the same characteristics as the trial group – age, gender, state of health, ethnic origin, and so on though target clinical populations are typically very different from trial populations with respect to such characteristics.\n\nThe variables in a clinical trial are specified and controlled, but a clinical trial can never tell you the whole story of the effects of a drug in all situations. In fact, nothing could tell you the whole story, but a clinical trial must tell you enough; \"enough\" being determined by legislation and by contemporary judgements about the acceptable balance of benefit and harm. Ultimately, when a drug is marketed it may be used in patient populations that were not studied during clinical trials (children, the elderly, pregnant women, patients with co-morbidities not found in the clinical trial population, etc.) and a different set of warnings, precautions or contraindications (where the drug should not be used at all) for the product's labeling may be necessary in order to maintain a positive risk/benefit profile in all known populations using the drug.\n\nPharmacoepidemiology is the study of the incidence of adverse drug reactions in patient populations using drug agents.\n\nAlthough often used interchangeably, there are subtle differences between the two disciplines. Pharmacogenetics is generally regarded as the study or clinical testing of genetic variation that gives rise to differing responses to drugs, including adverse drug reactions. It is hoped that pharmacogenetics will eventually provide information as to which genetic profiles in patients will place those patients at greatest risk, or provide the greatest benefit, for using a particular drug or drugs. Pharmacogenomics, on the other hand, is the broader application of genomic technologies to new drug discovery and further characterization of older drugs.\n\nThe following organizations play a key collaborative role in the global oversight of pharmacovigilance.\n\nThe principle of international collaboration in the field of pharmacovigilance is the basis for the WHO Programme for International Drug Monitoring, through which over 150 member nations have systems in place that encourage healthcare personnel to record and report adverse effects of drugs in their patients. These reports are assessed locally and may lead to action within the country. Since 1978, the programme has been managed by the Uppsala Monitoring Centre to which member countries send their reports to be processed, evaluated and entered into an international database called VigiBase. Membership in the WHO Programme enables a country to know if similar reports are being made elsewhere. When there are several reports of adverse reactions to a particular drug, this process may lead to the detection of a signal, and an alert about a possible hazard communicated to members countries after detailed evaluation and expert review.\n\nThe ICH is a global organization with members from the European Union, the United States and Japan; its goal is to recommend global standards for drug companies and drug regulatory authorities around the world, with the ICH Steering Committee (SC) overseeing harmonization activities. Established in 1990, each of its six co-sponsors—the EU, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW), the Japanese Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA)—have two seats on the SC. Other parties have a significant interest in ICH and have been invited to nominate Observers to the SC; three current observers are the WHO, Health Canada, and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), with the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (IFPMA) participating as a non-voting member of the SC.\n\nThe CIOMS, a part of the WHO, is a globally oriented think tank that provides guidance on drug safety related topics through its Working Groups. The CIOMS prepares reports that are used as a reference for developing future drug regulatory policy and procedures, and over the years, many of CIOMS' proposed policies have been adopted. Examples of topics these reports have covered include: Current Challenges in Pharmacovigilance: Pragmatic Approaches (CIOMS V); Management of Safety Information from Clinical Trials (CIOMS VI); the Development Safety Update Report (DSUR): Harmonizing the Format and Content for Periodic Safety Reporting During Clinical Trials (CIOMS VII); and Practical Aspects of Signal Detection in Pharmacovigilance: Report of CIOMS Working Group (CIOMS VIII).\n\nThe ISoP is an international non-profit scientific organization, which aims to foster pharmacovigilance both scientifically and educationally, and enhance all aspects of the safe and proper use of medicines, in all countries. It was established in 1992 as the European Society of Pharmacovigilance.\n\nDrug regulatory authorities play a key role in national or regional oversight of pharmacovigilance. Some of the agencies involved are listed below (in order of 2011 spending on pharmaceuticals, from the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics).\n\nIn the U.S., with about a third of all global 2011 pharmaceutical expenditures, the drug industry is regulated by the FDA, the largest national drug regulatory authority in the world. FDA authority is exercised through enforcement of regulations derived from legislation, as published in the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR); the principal drug safety regulations are found in 21 CFR Part 312 (IND regulations) and 21 CFR Part 314 (NDA regulations). While those regulatory efforts address pre-marketing concerns, pharmaceutical manufacturers and academic/non-profit organizations such as RADAR and Public Citizen do play a role in pharmacovigilance in the US. The post-legislative rule-making process of the U.S. federal government provides for significant input from both the legislative and executive branches, which also play specific, distinct roles in determining FDA policy.\n\nThe \"pharmerging\", or emerging pharmaceutical market economies, which include Brazil, India, Russia, Argentina, Egypt, Indonesia, Mexico, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, South Africa, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine and Vietnam, accrued one fifth of global 2011 pharmaceutical expenditures; in future, aggregated data for this set will include China as well.\n\nChina's economy is anticipated to pass Japan to become second in the ranking of individual countries' in pharmaceutical purchases by 2015, and so its PV regulation will become increasing important; China's regulation of PV is through its National Center for Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR) Monitoring, under China's Ministry of Health.\n\nAs JE Sackman notes, as of April 2013 \"there is no Latin American equivalent of the European Medicines Agency—no common body with the power to facilitate greater consistency across countries\". For simplicity, and per sources, 17 smaller economies are discussed alongside the 4 pharmemerging large economies of Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Venzuala—Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, and Uruguay. As of June 2012, 16 of this total of 21 countries have systems for immediate reporting and 9 have systems for periodic reporting of adverse events for on-market agents, while 10 and 8, respectively, have systems for immediate and periodic reporting of adverse events during clinical trials; most of these have PV requirements that rank as \"high or medium...in line with international standards\" (\"ibid.\"). The WHO's Pan American Network for Drug Regulatory Harmonization seeks to assist Latin American countries in develop harmonized PV regulations.\n\nSome further PV regulatory examples from the pharmerging nations are as follows. In India, the PV regulatory authority is the Indian Pharmacopoeia Commission, with a National Coordination Centre under the Pharmacovigilance Program of India, in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Scientists working on pharmacovigilance share their experiences, findings, innovative ideas and researches during the annual meeting of Society of Pharmacovigilance, India. In Egypt, PV is regulated by the Egyptian Pharmacovigilance Center of the Egyptian Ministry of Health.\n\nThe EU5 (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom) accrued ~17% of global 2011 pharmaceutical expenditures. PV efforts in the EU are coordinated by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and are conducted by the national competent authorities (NCAs). The main responsibility of the EMA is to maintain and develop the pharmacovigilance database consisting of all suspected serious adverse reactions to medicines observed in the European Community; the data processing network and management system is called EudraVigilance and contains separate but similar databases of human and veterinary reactions. The EMA requires the individual marketing authorization holders to submit all received adverse reactions in electronic form, except in exceptional circumstances; the reporting obligations of the various stakeholders are defined by EEC legislation, namely Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, and for human medicines, European Union Directive 2001/83/EC as amended and Directive 2001/20/EC. In 2002, Heads of Medicines Agencies agreed on a mandate for an ad hoc Working Group on establishing a European risk management strategy; the Working Group considered the conduct of a high level survey of EU pharmacovigilance resources to promote the utilization of expertise and encourage collaborative working.\n\nIn conjunction with this oversight, individual countries maintain their distinct regulatory agencies with PV responsibility. For instance, in Spain, PV is regulated by the Agencia Española de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios (AEMPS), a legal entity that retains the right to suspend or withdraw the authorization of pharmaceuticals already on-market if the evidence shows that safety (or quality or efficacy) of an agent are unsatisfactory.\n\nThe remaining EU and non-EU countries outside the EU5 accrued ~7% of global 2011 pharmaceutical expenditures. Regulation of those outside the EU being managed by specific governmental agencies. For instance, in Switzerland, PV \"inspections\" for clinical trials of medicinal products are conducted by the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products.\n\nIn Japan, with ~12% of all global 2011 pharmaceutical expenditures, PV matters are regulated by the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) and the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare MHLW.\n\nIn Canada, with ~2% of all global 2006 and 2011 pharmaceutical expenditures, PV is regulated by the Marketed Health Products Directorate of the Health Products and Food Branch(MHPD).. Canada was second, following the United States, in holding the highest total prescription drug expenditures per capita in 2011 at around 750 US dollars per person. Canada also pays such a large amount for pharmaceuticals that it was second, next to Switzerland, for the amount of money spent for a certain amount of prescription drugs (around 130 US dollars). It was also accessed that Canada was one of the top countries that increased its yearly average per capita growth on pharmaceutical expenditures the most from 2000-2010 with 4 percent a year (with taking inflation into account) The MHPD mainly collects adverse drug reaction reports through a network of reporting centers to analyze and issue possible warnings to the public, and currently utilizes newsletters, advisories, adverse reaction centers, as well as electronic mailing lists. However, it does not currently maintain a database or list of drugs removed from Canada as a result of safety concerns. \n\nIn August of 2017, there was a government controversy in which a bill, known as “Vanessa’s Law”, to protect patients from potentially dangerous prescription drugs was not being fully realized by hospitals; Health Canada only required hospitals to report “unexpected” negative reactions to prescription drugs, rather than any and all adverse reactions, with the justification of managing “administrative overload”.[25]\n\nThe Republic of Korea, with ~1% of all global 2011 pharmaceutical expenditures, PV matters are regulated in South Korea by the Ministry Of Food And Drug Safety (MFDS)\n\nIn Kenya, PV is regulated by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board.The Pharmacy and Poisons Board provides a Pharmacovigilance Electronic Reporting System which allows for the online reporting of suspected adverse drug reactions as well as suspected poor quality of medicinal products. The Pharmacovigilance activities in Kenya are supported by the School of Pharmacy, University of Nairobi through its Master of Pharmacy in Pharmacoepidemiology & Pharmacovigilance program offered by the Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacognosy.\n\nIn Uganda, PV is regulated by the National Drug Authority.\n\nROW accrued ~7% of global 2011 pharmaceutical expenditures. Some examples of PV regulatory agencies in ROW are as follows. In Iraq, PV is regulated by the Iraqi Pharmacovigilance Center of the Iraqi Ministry of Health.\n\nDespite attention from the FDA and regulatory agencies of the European Union, procedures for monitoring drug concentrations and adverse effects in the environment are lacking. Pharmaceuticals, their metabolites, and related substances may enter the environment after patient excretion, after direct release to waste streams during manufacturing or administration, or via terrestrial deposits (e.g., from waste sludges or leachates). A concept combining pharmacovigilance and environmental pharmacology, intended to focus attention on this area, was introduced first as \"pharmacoenvironmentology\" in 2006 by Syed Ziaur Rahman and later as \"ecopharmacology\" with further concurrent and later terms for the same concept (ecopharmacovigilance [EPV], environmental pharmacology, ecopharmacostewardship).\n\nThe first of these routes to the environment, elimination through living organisms subsequent to pharmacotherapy, is suggested as the principal source of environmental contamination (apart from cases where norms for treatment of manufacturing and other wastes are violated), and EPV is intended to deal specifically with this impact of pharmacological agents on the environment.\n\nActivities of EPV have been suggested to include:\n\nA medical device is an instrument, apparatus, implant, \"in vitro\" reagent, or similar or related article that is used to diagnose, prevent, or treat disease or other conditions, and does not achieve its purposes through chemical action within or on the body (which would make it a drug). Whereas medicinal products (also called pharmaceuticals) achieve their principal action by pharmacological, metabolic or immunological means, medical devices act by physical, mechanical, or thermal means. Medical devices vary greatly in complexity and application. Examples range from simple devices such as tongue depressors, medical thermometers, and disposable gloves to advanced devices such as medical robots, cardiac pacemakers, and neuroprosthetics.\n\nGiven the inherent difference between medicinal products and medical products, the vigilance of medical devices is also different from that of medicinal products. To reflect this difference, a classification system has been adopted in some countries to stratify the risk of failure with the different classes of devices. The classes of devices typically run on a 1-3 or 1-4 scale, with Class 1 being the least likely to cause significant harm with device failure versus Classes 3 or 4 being the most likely to cause significant harm with device failure. An example of a device in the \"low risk\" category would be contact lenses. An example of a device in the \"high risk\" category would be cardiac pacemakers.\n\nMedical device reporting (MDR), which is the reporting of adverse events with medical devices, is similar to that with medicinal products, although there are differences. For instance, in the US user-facilities such as hospitals and nursing homes are legally required to report suspected medical device-related deaths to both FDA and the manufacturer, if known, and serious injuries to the manufacturer or to FDA, if the manufacturer is unknown. This is in contrast to the voluntary reporting of AEs with medicinal products.\n\nThe safety of herbal medicines has become a major concern to both national health authorities and the general public. The use of herbs as traditional medicines continues to expand rapidly across the world; many people now take herbal medicines or herbal products for their health care in different national health-care settings. However, mass media reports of adverse events with herbal medicines can be incomplete and therefore misleading. Moreover, it can be difficult to identify the causes of herbal medicine-associated adverse events since the amount of data on each event is generally less than for pharmaceuticals formally regulated as drugs (since the requirements for adverse event reporting are either non-existent or are less stringent for herbal supplements and medications).\n\n"}
{"id": "1971674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1971674", "title": "Pitchcapping", "text": "Pitchcapping\n\nPitchcapping was a form of torture used by the British military against suspected Irish rebels during the period of the 1798 rebellion, most famously on Anthony Perry, one of the leaders of the Wexford Rebels.\n\nThe process involved pouring hot pitch, or tar (mainly used at the time for lighting purposes), into a conical shaped paper \"cap\", which was forced onto a bound suspect's head, allowed to cool, then rapidly removed, taking with it a portion of the suspect's skin and tissue. Less elaborate versions included smearing a cloth or piece of paper with pitch and pressing onto the head of the intended victim such as described by Myles Byrne* in his memoirs.\n\n\"\"Flogging, half hanging, picketing, were mild tortures in comparison of the pitch caps that were applied to the heads of those who happened to wear their hair short, called croppies; the head being completely singed, a cap made of strong linen well imbued with boiling pitch was so closely put on that it could not be taken off without bringing off a part of the skin and flesh from the head : in many instances the tortured victim had one of his ears cut off to satisfy the executioner that if he escaped he could readily be discovered, being so well marked.\" \"\n\nThe torture was usually preceded by the crude shearing of the victim's hair/scalp. The effect on the skull of this controlled form of local boiling somewhat resembles scalping, earlier known as a practice used by the colonists in North America and American Indians on each other.\nPitch has long, even in antiquity, been used (like other hot liquids, even melted metal) to pour into a victim's orifices. However, both those techniques were usually faster and often lethal, so less suitable as torture proper, rather as capital punishment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54171622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54171622", "title": "Seven collegiate churches of Liège", "text": "Seven collegiate churches of Liège\n\nThe seven collegiate churches of Liège () were a group of 10th- and early-11th-century foundations in the city of Liège. Each of these collegiate churches was a privileged corporation within the city, with its own precincts and rights, while until the Liège Revolution of 1789 the canons collectively had a key corporate status in the First Estate of the prince-bishopric of Liège as the \"secondary clergy\", alongside the \"primary clergy\" belonging to the chapter of Saint Lambert's Cathedral.\n\nBy the 18th century, each of the collegiate chapters had 30 canons, all of whom were required to be graduates in Theology or Canon Law. Each chapter had its own provost, dean, cantor, scholaster and treasurer.\n\nThe seven churches were:\n"}
{"id": "1381773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381773", "title": "Slovak National Party", "text": "Slovak National Party\n\nThe Slovak National Party (, SNS) is a nationalist political party in Slovakia. The party characterizes itself as a nationalist party based on both social and the European Christian values.\n\nSince 1990 SNS has won seats in every Slovak parliament but two (in 2002 and 2012) and has been part of the government from 2006 to 2010. In that year it formed a coalition with Robert Fico's Direction – Social Democracy (Smer-SD), which resulted in suspension of Smer-SD from the Party of European Socialists (PES). The PES considered SNS a \"political party which incites or attempts to stir up racial or ethnic prejudices and racial hatred.\" However, in 2008 Smer's membership suspension ended with no further PES's demands regarding SNS. In the 2012 parliamentary election, SNS failed to meet the 5% electoral threshold and thus lost parliamentary representation. At the following party congress in October 2012, the delegates chose lawyer Andrej Danko as the new chairman of the party.\n\nThe party was founded in December 1989 and perceives itself as an ideological heir to the historical Slovak National Party. The party declares its three pillars: Christian, national and social. One of the biggest events the SNS has participated in since then was the establishment of an independent Slovakia on 1 January 1993. The SNS has had deputies in the Slovak parliament in the years 1990–2002 and 2006-2012. The party also had deputies in the Slovak government. Marián Andel, Jozef Prokeš, Jaroslav Paška and Ľudovít Černák were in the second Mečiar government (1992–1994), Ján Sitek and Eva Slavkovská in the third Mečiar government (1994–1998) and other deputies were in the government of Robert Fico from 2006–2010 (see below).\n\nBetween 2001 and 2005 there was a Real Slovak National Party (\"Pravá slovenská národná strana\", PSNS), a party of SNS splinters, which remerged with SNS later. Since 2005, there is also a United Slovak National Party (\"Zjednotená slovenská národná strana\", ZSNS), also formed of former SNS members. In February 2006, PSNS changed its name into the Slovak National Coalition – Slovak Mutuality (\"Slovenská národná koalícia – Slovenská vzájomnosť\"). However, only the Slovak National Party is currently relevant.\n\nIn 2008 a €120 million tender for establishing the rules and guidelines and logos for distribution of funds from the European Union, was won by a consortium of firms with close ties to SNS leader Ján Slota. The tender notice had been posted for only five days on a bulletin board in the ministry run by the SNS party behind a locked door, which resulted in a single bid. Following the scandal, the SNS minister in charge of the contract was fired, and the European Commission has launched an investigation. In 2009 SNS proposed law to create barriers for women seeking abortion in Slovakia.\n\nSNS entered the current Slovak government after Chairman Ján Slota and Robert Fico agreed to create a coalition government. This created an unusual situation of an alleged far-right party, SNS being accepted and taken as a partner by SMER, a party describing itself as leftist. Three SNS ministers were sworn in on 4 July 2006:\n\nFurther ministers, delegated by SNS:\n\nIn the 2016 Slovak parliamentary election, the Slovak National Party won 8.64% of the vote, and joined Fico's Third Cabinet on March 22.\n\nIn April 2008, a map was published on the official web page discussion forum of the party where the territory of Hungary was divided between Slovakia and Austria, eliminating Hungary from the map. After receiving media attention the map was promptly removed and the party has denied responsibility, referring to the free access policy of the forum section, where the map was posted. The former party leader Ján Slota is the source of considerable controversy, Slota is frequently criticized for arrogance, nationalism, and extremism. \"The Slovak Spectator\" reports that most of the media attention Slota receives is because of statements that cross \"the line not just of political but also human decency.\" Documents about party leader Slota's criminal past, detailing arson, grand theft auto and assault, were broadcast by Markíza, the leading private television station in Slovakia, which resulted in a court case \"Markíza v Slota\". During the court proceedings Slota admitted to some of the crimes and even said he was proud of assaulting and beating a Hungarian saying \"I am proud of giving that Hungarian a black eye\". Another physical assault was committed by Anna Belousovová of SNS against fellow parliamentarian Igor Matovič of SaS. The SNS politician slapped Matovič saying she disliked an article written by him.\n\nThe party under the leadership of Ján Slota had been sometimes described as ultra-nationalist, right-wing extremist, and far-right, due to its statements about Hungarians and Romani which have been characterised as racist. The alleged party's major concern after the dissolution of Czechoslovakia has been the danger of \"irredentism\". Any moves and changes toward broader rights for the national minorities living in Slovakia, especially the sizeable Hungarian minority living in southern Slovakia, was seen as a step toward territorial autonomy.\n\nThe party had been known for its inflammatory rhetoric against ethnic Roma and Hungarians. The Party of European Socialists, considered SNS as a \"political party which incites or attempts to stir up racial or ethnic prejudices and racial hatred.\" The former party's leader Ján Slota, referred to by Earthtimes as \"a xenophobic politician who has stirred anti-Hungarian sentiments\", said the best policy for dealing with the Romani was \"a long whip in a small yard.\" He is quoted as saying \"we will sit in our tanks and destroy Budapest\" and questioning if homosexuals are normal people. Slota stated that \"The Hungarians are a cancer in the body of the Slovak nation.\" Slota called the fascist leader Jozef Tiso \"one of the greatest sons of the Slovak nation\" and on 17 February 2000, 40 of the 41 city council members in Žilina, where Slota was mayor at the time, voted to dedicate a plaque honouring Jozef Tiso, who was convicted and executed for the breaking Czechoslovak state and for collaboration with Nazi Germany. Later in a move that was described as absurd by a Slovak journalist, SNS demanded the seat of deputy prime minister responsible for human rights and national minorities. The party did not manage to obtain the seat.\n\nIn the past, the SNS party was accused of being a fascist party. The allegations are sometimes connected to various statements of party members or that SNS was behind \"the continuing campaign to rehabilitate Jozef Tiso, head of the wartime fascist regime, which was responsible for the deportation of the country's Jews to the death camps\" might also be a contributing factor. One high-profile fascist allegation was when in 2006 in a live interview with Inforadio, a politician of the Party of the Hungarian Coalition, Miklós Duray described SNS as a \"fascist party\". Duray said \"one third of the Slovak government is made up of Slota's party which is fascist\" describing the 2006 governing coalition between Robert Fico's Smer, Ján Slota's SNS, and HZDS, making SNS one of the three governing parties. SNS sued for financial damages, alleging the statement caused it loss of votes, image, and reputation. The District Court ruled that Duray was to pay one million crowns as a compensation and to apologize for his statements. The Slovak Supreme Court ultimately decided that SNS is not entitled for the financial compensation, because the party did not sufficiently document the alleged damage. SNS party chairman Ján Slota denounced the Supreme Court of Slovakia for that decision.\n\nLeaders of the Slovak National Party:\n\n"}
{"id": "5292203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5292203", "title": "Soviet dissidents", "text": "Soviet dissidents\n\nSoviet dissidents were people who disagreed with certain features in the embodiment of Soviet ideology and who were willing to speak out against them. The term \"dissident\" was used in the Soviet Union in the period following Joseph Stalin's death until the fall of communism. It was used to refer to small groups of marginalized intellectuals whose modest challenges to the Soviet regime met protection and encouragement from correspondents. Following the etymology of the term, a dissident is considered to \"sit apart\" from the regime. As dissenters began self-identifying as \"dissidents\", the term came to refer to an individual whose non-conformism was perceived to be for the good of a society.\n\nPolitical opposition in the USSR was barely visible and, with rare exceptions, of little consequence. Instead, an important element of dissident activity in the Soviet Union was informing society (both inside the Soviet Union and in foreign countries) about violation of laws and human rights. Over time, the dissident movement created vivid awareness of Soviet Communist abuses.\n\nSoviet dissidents who criticized the state faced possible legal sanctions under the Soviet Criminal Code and faced the choice of exile, the mental hospital, or the labor camp. Anti-Soviet political behavior, in particular, being outspoken in opposition to the authorities, demonstrating for reform, writing books were defined in some persons as being simultaneously a criminal act (e.g., violation of Articles 70 or 190-1), a symptom (e.g., \"delusion of reformism\"), and a diagnosis (e.g., \"sluggish schizophrenia\"). \n\nIn the 1950s, Soviet dissidents started leaking criticism to the West by sending documents and statements to foreign diplomatic missions in Moscow. In the 1960s, Soviet dissidents frequently declared that the rights the government of the Soviet Union denied them were universal rights, possessed by everyone regardless of race, religion and nationality. In August 1969, for instance, the Initiating Group for Defense of Civil Rights in the USSR appealed to the United Nations Committee on Human Rights to defend the human rights being trampled on by Soviet authorities in a number of trials.\n\nOur history shows that most of the people can be fooled for a very long time. But now all this idiocy is coming into clear contradiction with the fact that we have some level of openness. (Vladimir Voinovich)\n\nThe heyday of the dissenters as a presence in the Western public life was the 1970s. The Helsinki Accords inspired dissidents in the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland to openly protest human rights failures by their own governments. The Soviet dissidents demanded that the Soviet authorities implement their own commitments proceeding from the Helsinki Agreement with the same zeal and in the same way as formerly the outspoken legalists expected the Soviet authorities to adhere strictly to the letter of their constitution. Dissident Russian and East European intellectuals who urged compliance with the Helsinki accords have been subjected to official repression. According to Soviet dissident Leonid Plyushch, Moscow has taken advantage of the Helsinki security pact to improve its economy while increasing the suppression of political dissenters. 50 members of Soviet Helsinki Groups were imprisoned. Cases of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in the Soviet Union were divulged by Amnesty International in 1975 and by The Committee for the Defense of Soviet Political Prisoners in 1975 and 1976.\n\nUS President Jimmy Carter in his inaugural address on 20 January 1977 announced that human rights would be central to foreign policy during his administration. In February, Carter sent Andrei Dmitrievich Sakharov a letter expressing his support for the latter's stance on human rights. In the wake of Carter's letter to Sakharov, the USSR cautioned against attempts \"to interfere' in its affairs under \"a thought-up pretext of 'defending human rights.'\" Because of Carter's open show of support for Soviet dissidents, the KGB was able to link dissent with American imperialism through suggesting that such protest is a cover for American espionage in the Soviet Union. The KGB head Yuri Andropov determined, \"The need has thus emerged to terminate the actions of Orlov, fellow Helsinki monitor Ginzburg and others once and for all, on the basis of existing law.\" According to Dmitri Volkogonov and Harold Shukman, it was Andropov who approved the numerous trials of human rights activists such as Andrei Amalrik, Vladimir Bukovsky, Vyacheslav Chornovil, Zviad Gamsakhurdia, Alexander Ginzburg, Natalya Gorbanevskaya, Pyotr Grigorenko, Anatoly Shcharansky, and others. According to Soviet dissident Yuri Glazov, Andropov was a paradigmatic \"Homo Sovieticus\" and personally conducted disinformation campaigns against his main opponents and dissidents Andrei Sakharov and Alexander Solzhenitsyn.\n\nIf we accept human rights violations as just \"their way\" of doing things, then we are \"all\" guilty. \n\nVoluntary and involuntary emigration allowed the authorities to rid themselves of many political active intellectuals including writers Valentin Turchin, Georgi Vladimov, Vladimir Voinovich, Lev Kopelev, Vladimir Maximov, Naum Korzhavin, Vasily Aksyonov and others. \"A Chronicle of Current Events\" covered 424 political trials, in which 753 people were convicted, and no one of the accused was acquitted; in addition, 164 people were declared insane and sent to compulsory treatment in a psychiatric hospital.\n\nAccording to Soviet dissidents and Western critics, the KGB had routinely sent dissenters to psychiatrists for diagnosing to avoid embarrassing publiс trials and to discredit dissidence as the product of ill minds. On the grounds that political dissenters in the Soviet Union were psychotic and deluded, they were locked away in psychiatric hospitals and treated with neuroleptics. Confinement of political dissenters in psychiatric institutions had become a common practice. That technique could be called the \"medicalization\" of dissidence or psychiatric terror, the now familiar form of repression applied in the Soviet Union to Leonid Plyushch, Pyotr Grigorenko, and many others. Finally, many persons at that time tended to believe that dissidents were abnormal people whose commitment to mental hospitals was quite justified. In the opinion of the Moscow Helsinki Group chairwoman Lyudmila Alexeyeva, the attribution of a mental illness to a prominent figure who came out with a political declaration or action is the most significant factor in the assessment of psychiatry during the 1960–1980s. At that time Soviet dissident Vladimir Bukovsky wrote \"A New Mental Illness in the USSR: The Opposition\" published in French, German, Italian, Spanish and (coathored with Semyon Gluzman) \"A Manual on Psychiatry for Dissidents\" published in Russian, English, French, Italian, German, Danish.\n\nIn 1977-1979 and again in 1980-1982, the KGB reacted to the Helsinki Watch Groups in Moscow, Kiev, Vilnius, Tbilisi, and Erevan by launching large-scale arrests and sentencing its members to in prison, labor camp, internal exile and psychiatric imprisonment.\n\nFrom the members of the Moscow Helsinki Group, 1978 saw its members Yuri Orlov, Vladimir Slepak and Anatoly Shcharansky sentenced to lengthy labor camp terms and internal exile for \"anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda\" and treason. Another wave of arrests followed in the early 1980s: Malva Landa, Viktor Nekipelov, Leonard Ternovsky, Feliks Serebrov, Tatiana Osipova, Anatoly Marchenko, and Ivan Kovalev. Soviet authorities offered some activists the \"opportunity\" to emigrate. Lyudmila Alexeyeva emigrated in 1977. The Moscow Helsinki Group founding members Mikhail Bernshtam, Alexander Korchak, Vitaly Rubin also emigrated, and Pyotr Grigorenko was stripped of his Soviet citizenship while seeking medical treatment abroad.\n\nThe Ukrainian Helsinki Group suffered severe repressions throughout 1977-1982, with at times multiple labor camp sentences handed out to Mykola Rudenko, Oleksy Tykhy, Myroslav Marynovych, Mykola Matusevych, Levko Lukyanenko, Oles Berdnyk, Mykola Horbal, Zinovy Krasivsky, Vitaly Kalynychenko, Vyacheslav Chornovil, Olha Heyko, Vasyl Stus, Oksana Meshko, Ivan Sokulsky, Ivan Kandyba, Petro Rozumny, Vasyl Striltsiv, Yaroslav Lesiv, Vasyl Sichko, Yuri Lytvyn, Petro Sichko. By 1983 the Ukrainian Helsinki Group had 37 members, of whom 22 were in prison camps, 5 were in exile, 6 emigrated to the West, 3 were released and were living in Ukraine, 1 (Mykhailo Melnyk) committed suicide.\n\nThe Lithuanian Helsinki Group saw its members subjected to two waves of imprisonment for anti-Soviet activities and \"organization of religious processions\": Viktoras Petkus was sentenced in 1978; others followed in 1980-1981: Algirdas Statkevičius, Vytautas Skuodys, Mečislovas Jurevičius, and Vytautas Vaičiūnas.\n\nStarting in the 1960s, the early years of the Brezhnev stagnation, dissidents in the Soviet Union increasingly turned their attention towards civil and eventually human rights concerns. The fight for civil and human rights focused on issues of freedom of expression, freedom of conscience, freedom to emigrate, punitive psychiatry, and the plight of political prisoners. It was characterized by a new openness of dissent, a concern for legality, the rejection of any 'underground' and violent struggle.\n\nThroughout the 1960s-1980s, those active in the civil and human rights movement engaged in a variety of activities: The documentation of political repression and rights violations in samizdat (unsanctioned press); individual and collective protest letters and petitions; unsanctioned demonstrations; mutual aid for prisoners of conscience; and, most prominently, civic watch groups appealing to the international community. Repercussions for these activities ranged from dismissal from work and studies to many years of imprisonment in labor camps and being subjected to punitive psychiatry.\n\nDissidents active in the movement in the 1960s introduced a \"legalist\" approach of avoiding moral and political commentary in favor of close attention to legal and procedural issues. Following several landmark political trials, coverage of arrests and trials in samizdat became more common. This activity eventually led to the founding of the \"Chronicle of Current Events\" in April 1968. The unofficial newsletter reported violations of civil rights and judicial procedure by the Soviet government and responses to those violations by citizens across the USSR.\n\nDuring the late 1960s and throughout the 1970s, the rights-based strategy of dissent incorporated human rights ideas and rhetoric. The movement included figures such as Valery Chalidze, Yuri Orlov, and Lyudmila Alexeyeva. Special groups were founded such as the Initiative Group for the Defense of Human Rights in the USSR (1969) and the Committee on Human Rights in the USSR (1970). The signing of the Helsinki Accords (1975) containing human rights clauses provided rights campaigners with a new hope to use international instruments. This led to the creation of dedicated Helsinki Watch Groups in Moscow (Moscow Helsinki Group), Kiev (Ukrainian Helsinki Group), Vilnius (Lithuanian Helsinki Group), Tbilisi, and Erevan (1976–77).\n\nThe civil and human rights initiatives played a significant role in providing a common language for Soviet dissidents with varying concerns, and became a common cause for social groups in the dissident milieu ranging from activists in the youth subculture to academics such as Andrei Sakharov. Due to the contacts with Western journalists as well as the political focus during détente (Helsinki Accords), those active in the human rights movement were among those most visible in the West (next to refuseniks).\n\nSeveral national or ethnic groups who had been deported under Stalin formed movements to return to their homelands. In particular, the Crimean Tatars aimed to return to Crimea, the Meskhetian Turks to South Georgia and ethnic Germans aimed to resettle along the Volga River near Saratov.\n\nThe Crimean Tatar movement takes a prominent place among the movement of deported nations. The Tatars had been refused the right to return to the Crimea, even though the laws justifying their deportation had been overturned. Their first collective letter calling for the restoration dates to 1957. In the early 1960s, the Crimean Tatars had begun to establish initiative groups in the places where they had been forcibly resettled. Led by Mustafa Dzhemilev, they founded their own democratic and decentralized organization, considered unique in the history of independent movements in the Soviet Union.\n\nThe emigration movements in the Soviet Union included the movement of Soviet Jews to emigrate to Israel and of the Volga Germans to emigrate to West Germany.\n\nSoviet Jews were routinely denied permission to emigrate by the authorities of the former Soviet Union and other countries of the Eastern bloc. A movement for the right to emigrate formed in the 1960s, which also gave rise to a revival of interest in Jewish culture. The refusenik cause gathered considerable attention in the West.\n\nCitizens of German origin who lived in the Baltic states prior to their annexation in 1940 and descendants of the\neighteenth-century Volga German settlers also formed a movement to leave the Soviet Union. In 1972, the West German government entered an agreement with the Soviet authorities which permitted between 6000 and 8000 people to emigrate to West Germany every year for the rest of the decade. As a result, almost 70000 ethnic Germans had left the Soviet Union by the mid-1980s.\n\nSimilarly, Armenians achieved a small emigration. By the mid-1980s, over 15000 Armenians had emigrated.\n\nThe religious movements in the USSR included Russian Orthodox, Catholic, and Protestant movements. They focused on the freedom to practice their faith and resistance to interference by the state in their internal affairs.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox movement remained relatively small. The Catholic movement in Lithuania was part of the larger Lithuanian national movement. Protestant groups which opposed the anti-religious state directives included the Baptists, the Seventh-day Adventists, and the Pentecostals. Similar to the Jewish and German dissident movements, many in the independent Pentecostal movement pursued emigration.\n\nThe national movements included the Russian national dissidents as well as dissident movements from Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Georgia, and Armenia.\n\nAmong the nations that lived in their own territories with the status of republics within the Soviet Union, the first movement to emerge in the 1960s was the Ukrainian movement. Its aspiration was to resist the Russification of Ukraine and to insist on equal rights and democratization for the republic.\n\nIn Lithuania, the national movement of the 1970s was closely linked to the Catholic movement.\n\nSeveral landmark examples of dissenting writers played a significant role for the wider dissident movement. These include the persecutions of Osip Mandelshtam, Boris Pasternak, Mikhail Bulgakov, and Joseph Brodsky, as well as the publication of \"The Gulag Archipelago\" by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.\n\nIn literary world, there were dozens of literati who participated in dissident movement, including Vasily Aksyonov, Arkadiy Belinkov, Leonid Borodin, Joseph Brodsky, Georgi Vladimov, Vladimir Voinovich, Aleksandr Galich, Venedikt Yerofeyev, Alexander Zinoviev, Lev Kopelev, Naum Korzhavin, Vladimir Maximov, Viktor Nekrasov, Andrei Sinyavsky, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, and Varlam Shalamov.\n\nIn the early Soviet Union, non-conforming academics were exiled via so-called Philosophers' ships. Later, figures such as cultural theorist Grigori Pomerants were among active dissidents.\n\nOther intersections of cultural and literary nonconformism with dissidents include the wide field of Soviet Nonconformist Art, such as the painters of the underground Lianozovo group, and artists active in the \"Second Culture\".\n\nOther groups included the Socialists, the movements for socioeconomic rights (especially the independent unions), as well as women's, environmental, and peace movements.\n\nResponding to the issue of refuseniks in the Soviet Union, the United States Congress passed the Jackson–Vanik amendment in 1974. The provision in United States federal law intended to affect U.S. trade relations with countries of the Communist bloc that restrict freedom of emigration and other human rights.\n\nThe eight member countries of the Warsaw Pact signed the Helsinki Final Act in August 1975. The \"third basket\" of the Act included extensive human rights clauses.\n\nWhen Jimmy Carter entered office in 1976, he broadened his advisory circle to include critics of US–Soviet détente. He voiced support for the Czech dissident movement known as Charter 77, and publicly expressed concern about the Soviet treatment of dissidents Aleksandr Ginzburg and Andrei Sakharov. In 1977, Carter received prominent dissident Vladimir Bukovsky in the White House, asserting that he did not intend \"to be timid\" in his support of human rights.\n\nIn 1979, the US Helsinki Watch Committee was established, funded by the Ford Foundation. Founded after the example of the Moscow Helsinki Group and similar watch groups in the Soviet bloc, it also aimed to monitor compliance with the human rights provisions of the Helsinki Accords and to provide moral support for those struggling for that objective inside the Soviet bloc. It acted as aconduit for information on repression in the Soviet Union, and lobbied policy-makers in the United States to continue to press the issue with Soviet leaders.\n\nUS President Ronald Reagan attributed to the view that the \"brutal treatment of Soviet dissidents was due to bureaucratic inertia.\" On 14 November 1988, he held a meeting with Andrei Sakharov at the White House and said that Soviet human rights abuses are impeding progress and would continue to do so until the problem is \"completely eliminated.\" Whether talking to about one hundred dissidents in a broadcast to the Soviet people or at the U.S. Embassy, Reagan's agenda was one of freedom to travel, freedom of speech, freedom of religion. There is an opinion that Star Wars program, which was launched in the US under Ronald Reagan, was a major factor in the chain of events that led to the first defeat of the USSR in the Cold War and later to the collapse of the communist regime in the country.\n\nAndrei Sakharov said, \"Everyone wants to have a job, be married, have children, be happy, but dissidents must be prepared to see their lives destroyed and those dear to them hurt. When I look at my situation and my family's situation and that of my country, I realize that things are getting steadily worse.\"\nFellow dissident and one of the founders of the Moscow Helsinki Group Lyudmila Alexeyeva wrote:\n\nAccording to Soviet dissident Victor Davydoff, totalitarian system has no mechanisms that could change the behavior of the ruling group from within. Any attempts to change this are immediately suppressed through repression. Dissidents appealed to international human rights organizations, foreign governments, and there was a result.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "155577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155577", "title": "Statism", "text": "Statism\n\nIn political science, statism is the belief that the state should control either economic or social policy, or both, to some degree. \n\nWhile the term \"statism\" has been in use since the 1850s, it gained significant usage in American political discourse throughout the 1930s and 1940s. Ayn Rand made frequent use of it in a series of articles in 1962.\n\nStatism can take many forms from minarchism to totalitarianism. Minarchists prefer a minimal state such as a night-watchman state to protect people from aggression, theft, breach of contract and fraud with military, police and courts. Some may also include fire departments, prisons and other functions. The welfare state and other moderate levels of statism also exist on the scale of statism. Totalitarians prefer a maximum, all-encompassing state.\n\nAuthoritarians view a strong, authoritative state as required to legislate or enforce morality and cultural practices. The ideology of statism espoused by fascism holds that sovereignty is not vested in the people, but in the nation state and that all individuals and associations exist only to enhance the power, prestige and well-being of the state. It repudiates individualism and the family and exalts the nation as an organic body headed by the supreme leader and nurtured by unity, force and discipline. Fascism and some forms of corporatism extol the moral position that the corporate group, usually the state, is greater than the sum of its parts and that individuals have a moral obligation to serve the state.\n\nEconomic statism promotes the view that the state has a major, necessary and legitimate role in directing the economy, either directly through state-owned enterprises and other types of machinery of government, or indirectly through economic planning.\n\nThe term \"statism\" is sometimes used to refer to market economies with large amounts of government intervention, regulation or influence over a market or mixed-market economy. Economic interventionism asserts that the state has a legitimate or necessary role within the framework of a capitalist economy by intervening in markets, regulating against overreaches of private sector industry and either providing or subsidizing goods and services not adequately produced by the market.\n\nState socialism broadly refers to forms of socialism based on state ownership of the means of production and state-directed allocation of resources. It is often used in reference to Soviet-type economic systems of former Communist states.\n\nIn some cases, when used in reference to Soviet-type economies, state socialism is used interchangeably with state capitalism on the basis that the Soviet model of economics was actually based upon a process of state-directed capital accumulation and social hierarchy.\n\nPolitically, state socialism is often used to designate any socialist political ideology or movement that advocates for the use of state power for the construction of socialism, or to the belief that the state must be appropriated and used to ensure the success of a socialist revolution. It is usually used in reference to Marxist–Leninist socialists who champion a single-party state.\n\nStatism may be used to refer to state capitalism. State capitalism refers to forms of capitalism that feature high concentrations of state-directed commercial enterprises.\n\nIn some cases, state capitalism refers to economic policies such as dirigisme, which existed in France during the second half of the 20th century; and to the present-day economies of the People's Republic of China and Singapore, where the government owns controlling shares in publicly traded companies. Some authors also define the former economies of the Eastern bloc as constituting a form of state capitalism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59027016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59027016", "title": "Union of Bukovina with the Kingdom of Romania", "text": "Union of Bukovina with the Kingdom of Romania\n\nThe union of the ex-Habsburg Duchy of Bukovina with Romania took place in late 1918, and was officially recognized by the international community in 1919 and 1920. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8358418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8358418", "title": "United States Passport Card", "text": "United States Passport Card\n\nThe U.S. Passport Card is a limited travel document issued by the federal government of the United States in the size of a credit card. It may often be used as an identity card for purposes other than international travel, such as domestic air travel. Like a U.S. passport book, the passport card is only issued to U.S. citizens and U.S. nationals exclusively by the U.S. Department of State and is compliant to the standards for identity documents set by the REAL ID Act and can be used as proof of U.S. citizenship. The passport card allows cardholders to travel by domestic air flights within the United States and to enter and exit the United States via land and sea between member states of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). However, the passport card cannot be used for international air travel.\n\nThe passport card (previously known as the People Access Security Service Card, or PASS Card) was created as a result of the WHTI which imposed more stringent documentary requirements on travelers. Applications have been accepted since February 1, 2008; production of the cards began July 14, 2008. By the end of 2016, more than 12 million Passport Cards had been issued to U.S. citizens. The card is manufactured by L-1 Identity Solutions.\n\nNational identity cards with similar utility are common inside the European Union countries for both national and international use, with the difference that such cards are often mandatory to carry in several of these countries. In contrast, there are only some states in the US which have 'stop and identify statutes' and in these states a driving licence will always suffice.\n\nAs a result of the September 11 attacks, the United States began implementing a range of measures to increase the security of its borders and its identity documents. One result of this was WHTI, which mandates that a smaller, more secure number of documents verifying both identity and citizenship be used to facilitate identification and international border crossing. Previous to WHTI, many different types of documents were acceptable to cross the border, including birth certificates issued by thousands of different authorities within the United States and Canada. As a result of WHTI, American citizens traveling to Canada would have been required to obtain a passport booklet in order to cross the border. In order to offer a less expensive and more portable alternative to border communities and frequent travelers, the passport card was developed.\n\nIn an effort to improve efficiency at land crossings, the passport card also includes a vicinity-read radio frequency identification chip with a unique identifying number tied to government databases. Unlike the passport book, the RFID chip in the passport card is designed to be readable at a greater distance, allowing border agents to access traveler information before they pull up to the inspection station. While a biometric passport contains a chip containing all of the traveler's information in electronic format, the RFID chip in a passport card does not contain any personal information beyond the identifying number, which is used to locate records in secure government databases. To prevent the RFID chip from being read when the card is not being used, the passport card comes with a sleeve designed to block RFID while inside.\n\nThe passport card is a limited travel document, valid only for land and sea travel within North America (Canada, the United States, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda). It cannot be used for international air travel. The Department of State indicates that this is because \"designing a card format passport for wide use, including by air travelers, would inadvertently undercut the broad based international effort to strengthen civil aviation security and travel document specifications to address the post 9/11 threat environment\".\n\nAside from being unable to be used for international air travel, the passport card is treated as a passport for all other purposes. A United States passport card can be used as primary evidence of United States citizenship, just like a passport booklet, and can be used as a valid proof of citizenship and proof of identity both inside and outside the United States. However, the acceptance of the passport card as an identity document by both private and governmental entities within the U.S. varies greatly, due to its unfamiliarity with many people.\n\nUnder the REAL ID Act, the passport card is also accepted for federal purposes (such as domestic air travel or entering federal buildings), which may make it an attractive option for people living in states whose driver's licenses and ID cards are not REAL ID–compliant when those requirements go into effect. TSA regulations list the passport card as an acceptable identity document at airport security checkpoints. For the purposes of state voter photo identification initiatives, the passport card has been deemed acceptable.\n\nU.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has indicated that the U.S. Passport Card may be used in the Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 process. The passport card is considered a \"List A\" document that may be presented by newly hired employees during the employment eligibility verification process to show work authorized status. \"List A\" documents are those used by employees to prove both identity and work authorization when completing the Form I-9.\n\nPassport cards are much less popular than driver licenses, a commonly used form of identification. As previously stated, in 2016 there were more than 12 million passport cards issued. In contrast, in 2009 there were 210 million licensed drivers.\n\nU.S. Passport Cards can be used \"only at land border-crossings or sea ports-of-entry\" to member states and territories of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, currently:\nThe U.S. Passport card is accepted for land travel by the immigration authorities of Canada and Mexico. The U.S. Passport Card is not valid for international air travel.\n\nSince they are not participating in the WHTI, the U.S. Passport Card cannot be used when entering the U.S. from the following countries and territories, even though they are considered part of the Caribbean:\n\nThe passport card will share the same validity period as the passport book: 10 years for persons 16 and over, 5 years for children under 16. As of April 9, 2018, the passport card renewal fee for eligible applicants (adults only, by mail) is $30; first-time applicants and those applying in person must also pay a $35 processing fee, for a total fee of $65. Passport cards for children must be applied for in person; the total fee is $50, including the $35 processing fee.\n\nAdults who already have a fully valid passport book may pay a fee of $30 to apply for the card as a passport renewal.\n\nA citizen or national is allowed to hold both a card passport and a booklet passport. A passport in either form entitles its holder to apply for the other form (or both forms) as a \"renewal\" by mail at the end of its validity period.\n\nThe passport card is formatted according to specifications for credit card (ID-1) sized travel documents, as described in ICAO Document 9303, Part 3, Volume 1. The card contains both human-readable and machine-readable information; the latter is printed in the machine-readable zone on the rear of the card as OCR-readable text in a similar format as on the identity page of the passport book. The zone starts with the letters IP (designated by ICAO for passport card), followed by the issuing country code USA and then the Passport Card's serial number (which is prefixed with a \"C\" and differs from the individual's passport book number, even if issued together). The general layout of the Passport Card is virtually identical to the layout of the Border Crossing Card issued to Mexican citizens with primarily the background imagery and entitlements varying between the two cards.\n\nIn addition to the embedded RFID chip, the front of the card features a complex multi-layer hologram consisting of an American bald eagle surrounded by the words \"United States of America Department of State\" in a small clearly readable font, further surrounded by the same words repeatedly in microprint. The card's background consists of interweaving smooth curves rich in variable color and microprint. All of the personal information on the card is created by laser engraving, with some key information produced in raised tactile engraving, including the date of birth, vertical letters \"USA\", the passport card number, and an alphanumeric sequence underneath the photograph. A second, smaller \"ghost\" photograph of the bearer is included on the right side of the card; when closely inspected this ghost image is actually an approximation of the shading in the original photo composed of various letters from the card holder's name. There is an embossed seal in the upper left hand corner of the card (partially overlapping the photograph) depicting the obverse of the Great Seal of the United States. On the rear of the card, the \"PASSsystem\" mark appears in Optically variable ink. When viewed under UV lighting, a reddish-orange bald eagle in flight appears. On newer passport cards, the eagle is surrounded by a blue ring that reads \"From Sea To Shining Sea\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1127558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127558", "title": "Welsh Language Board", "text": "Welsh Language Board\n\nThe Welsh Language Board () was a statutory body set up by Her Majesty's Government under the Welsh Language Act 1993. It was an Assembly Sponsored Public Body. It began its life under John Walter Jones OBE, and its last Chief Executive was Meirion Prys Jones, with Meri Huws acting as Chair.\n\nIt received an annual government grant of £13m which was used to \"promote and facilitate\" the use of the Welsh language.\n\nThe Board was responsible for administering the Welsh Language Act and for seeing that public bodies in Wales kept to its terms. Over 500 Welsh language schemes were agreed with a range of bodies named under the provisions of the Act.\n\nIn cases where there were concerns that public bodies were not complying with their Welsh language schemes, the Board could hold a statutory investigation. If the Board's investigations indicated that an organisation has broken its own Welsh language scheme, it could produce recommendations to the organisation and, ultimately, refer the matter to the Minister for Heritage at the Welsh Assembly Government.\n\nThe Board's Private Sector and Business team worked with a wide variety of large and small companies. Since launching the private sector Welsh language policy in November 2008, over 100 businesses produced a policy, and 150 companies signed up to the Board's \"Investing in Welsh scheme\", indicating support for the language.\n\nThe Welsh Language Board was at the forefront of promoting bilingual design, in part by making annual bilingual awards. In 2006, winners included FBA, Glass Hammer, Synergy Creative Design & Marketing, Hoffi, 6721, Elfen, Zodshop and Departures.\n\nIn winter 2004 Rhodri Morgan, previous First Minister of Wales, announced his decision to abolish the Welsh Language Board. This decision evoked a mixed reaction throughout Wales: welcomed by \"Cymdeithas yr Iaith Gymraeg\" but met with scepticism by others. It was abolished on 31 March 2012 and replaced by the Welsh Language Commissioner: Meri Huws was the first Commissioner. The Board's powers were transferred to the Welsh Government and the Commissioner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6483933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6483933", "title": "White Booklet", "text": "White Booklet\n\nWitte Boekje (English: \"White Booklet\") is the popular name for the Spelling Guide of Our Language (Spellingwijzer Onze Taal), a publication of the Genootschap Onze Taal. The first edition was released in October 1998; the latest edition is the tenth and was released in 2004. All these publications are explanations of the official spelling rules, as set by the Dutch Language Union.\n\nAlthough the words in the guide have been based on the same official rules as the Green Booklet, the spellings in the two booklets do not always match. To aid users, the differences between the White Booklet and Green Booklet are made clear by appending \"GB\" to the differently spelled words.\n\nAfter the spelling reform of 2005, the White Booklet was updated explicitly in a break with the Dutch Language Union.\n\nThe latest edition will, because of the changes, be unable to bear the official certification mark of the Dutch Language Union. The White Booklet will then become the spelling prescription of a group of media organizations and companies in The Netherlands who will boycott the new spelling rules. These parties have jointly announced in December 2005 that they will not switch to the new official spelling, and they had not done as of August 1, 2006. These are de Volkskrant, Trouw, NRC Handelsblad, Elsevier, HP/De Tijd, De Groene Amsterdammer, Vrij Nederland, Planet Internet, TekstNet, and the NOS. They will follow the spelling as determined by the White Booklet.\n\nEven though Onze Taal is a society for both Belgium and the Netherlands, no major media or publisher in Flanders uses the White Booklet.\n"}
{"id": "40856186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40856186", "title": "Women's rights are human rights", "text": "Women's rights are human rights\n\n\"Women's rights are human rights\" is a phrase used in the feminist movement. The phrase was first used in the 1980s and early 1990s. Its most prominent usage is as the name of a speech given by Hillary Rodham Clinton, the First Lady of the United States, on 5 September 1995, at the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. In this speech she sought to closely link the notion of women's rights with that of human rights. In the speech, Clinton used the phrase within the longer, bidirectional refrain, \"human rights are women's rights and women's rights are human rights.\"\n\nThe notion that \"women's rights are human rights\" was first expressed with different phrasing by the abolitionists and proto-feminists Sarah Moore Grimké and Angelina Grimké Weld in the late 1830s. In her series of \"Letters on the Equality of the Sexes\", Sarah Moore Grimké writes, \"Consequently I know nothing of man’s rights, or woman’s rights; human rights are all that I recognize\". A similar expression is used by her sister, Angelina Grimké Weld, in her speeches and personal letters. In a letter to her friend Jane Smith, she writes, \"whatever is morally right for a man to do is morally right for a woman to do. I recognized no rights but human rights.\" \n\nThe phrase \"Women's rights are human rights\" was used intermittently during the 1980s and first half of the 1990s, before Clinton's speech. Instances include in 1984, when \"The New York Times\" quoted the head of New York City's Human Rights Commission, Marcella Maxwell, using this phrase in conversation. It was again used in 1985 by Cecilia Medina, a noted Chilean jurist, in a seminal paper on feminism. The title of her work was 'Women's Rights as Human Rights: Latin American Countries and the Organization of American States (OAS).' In articulating the historic idea, Medina wrote, \"As a logical consequence of the fact that women's rights are human rights, feminism, in theory, is a movement to achieve a democratic society, without which human rights may not be fully enjoyed.\"\n\nCanadian politician Ed Broadbent, who was the head of the International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development, used the phrase in an interview with the \"Calgary Herald\" in January 1993 when he stated, \"If we believe as a society that women's rights are human rights, then it is time to stop discriminating against women in refugee policy.\" The phrase was used by Laurel Fletcher during a 1993 international law symposium called \"Human Rights Violations Against Women\", an edited version of which was published by Fletcher, Allyn Taylor and Joan Fitzpatrick in 1994. Article 3 of Malaysian Charter on Human Rights, published in December 1994 by a number of non-governmental organizations, begins with the sentence \"Women's Rights are Human Rights.\"\n\nIn planning to make her speech, the 47-year-old Clinton defied both internal administration pressure and external Chinese pressure to soften her remarks. The U.S. State Department and the National Security Agency both tried to dissuade her on the grounds that it would irritate the Chinese. While President Bill Clinton had seen the speech in advance, his aides had not, and White House Chief of Staff Thomas McLarty was under the impression that it would not say anything new or controversial. Some human rights campaigners also objected to Clinton speaking in China, fearing it would legitimize that government, and a State Department condition was that Chinese human rights activist Harry Wu be released before she would appear, which he was. Some vocal Catholic groups criticized the gathering as \"anti-family\" while some ideological conservatives said that Clinton was clearly going to push a \"radical feminist agenda\" while there.\n\nCecilia Medina was part of the United Nations Human Rights Committee in 1995 and so may have influenced the speech.\n\nOnce it happened on 5 September 1995, Clinton's speech was delivered in a large hall at the conference.\nIn it, she argued against practices abusing women around the world and in China itself. Targeting governments and organizations as well as individual females, she stated her belief that the issues facing women and girls are often either ignored or \"silenced\" and thus go unresolved. Elements brought up in the speech include dowry deaths and China's one-child policy.\n\nClinton declared \"that it is no longer acceptable to discuss women's rights as separate from human rights\". Delegates from over 180 countries heard her say:\n\nShe followed this by saying, \"As long as discrimination and inequities remain so commonplace everywhere in the world, as long as girls and women are valued less, fed less, fed last, overworked, underpaid, not schooled, subjected to violence in and outside their homes—the potential of the human family to create a peaceful, prosperous world will not be realized.\" A number of the women delegates at the conference pounded on tables and cheered as she spoke.\n\nChina's citizenry was not allowed to attend the speech, and it was blacked out on Chinese radio and television.\n\nThe speech received prominent media attention at the time. NBC News anchor Tom Brokaw said, \"In her own way, she made a direct hit on the Chinese,\" while that network's correspondent Andrea Mitchell said it was \"highly unusual\" for a U.S. first lady to engage in this kind of significant diplomatic activity. \"The New York Times\" said that Clinton spoke \"more forcefully on human rights than any American dignitary has on Chinese soil.\"\n\nThe speech is considered to be influential in the women's rights movement. Specifically, it became a key moment in the empowerment of women, and years later women around the world would recite Clinton's key phrases.\n\nThe speech was listed as number 35 in American Rhetoric's Top 100 Speeches of the 20th Century (listed by rank).\n\nIn 2011, Clinton took a similar position on LGBT rights in a speech to the United Nations on International Human Rights Day, declaring \"gay rights are human rights, and human rights are gay rights.\"\n\nIn 2013, following Clinton's stint as U.S. Secretary of State, Clinton led a review at the Clinton Global Initiative of how women's rights have changed since her 1995 speech. It concluded that progress had been made for girls in education and for women and girls in healthcare but that females around the world still suffered due to lack of political rights and security vulnerabilities. In Clinton's words: \"It’s a glass-half-filled kind of scenario.\"\n\nOn the twentieth anniversary of the speech in 2015 there were more retrospectives on it. Not everyone was enamored of it: publicly visible lawyer Bruce Fein said: “She made one statement in Beijing that wasn’t very profound — that women are human beings.”\n\nThe speech and phrase became a focal point of Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign. The campaign sold T-shirts stating \"women's rights are human rights\" at her campaign store, in reference to her speech. The campaign also sold a bag that featured the full phrase \"Human rights are women's rights and women's rights are human rights\"; on the bag it was shown in six languages. As well, the campaign sold a Tory Burch T-shirt featuring the phrase \"women's rights are human rights...\" in capital letters. The campaign also created photo references and displays of items necessary for five Halloween costumes, including \"'Women’s rights are human rights' Hillary\".\n\nIn Jennifer Lopez's 2016 music video for her song \"Ain't Your Mama\", a sample of Clinton giving part of her speech can be heard, specifically, \"Human rights are women’s rights, and women’s rights are human rights, once and for all.\"\n\nIn 2017, for International Women's Day, Madonna released a short film titled \"Her-Story\"; it ends with the message \"Women's rights are human rights.\"\n\nAs evidenced by physician Leslie Regan in \"The Journal of Sexual Medicine\", the phrase remains relevant in political discourse in the 2010s, specifically with regards to the discussion of policy regarding women's sexual health and reproductive rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "2638556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2638556", "title": "World Federation of the Deaf", "text": "World Federation of the Deaf\n\nThe World Federation of the Deaf (WFD) is an international non-governmental organization that acts as a peak body for national associations of Deaf people, with a focus on Deaf people who use sign language and their family and friends. WFD aims to promote the Human Rights of Deaf people worldwide, by working closely with the United Nations (with which it has consultative status) and various UN agencies such as the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). WFD is also a member of the International Disability Alliance (IDA).\n\nThe current 11 board members are all deaf. The offices are located in Helsinki, Finland.\n\nThe WFD was established in September 1951 in Rome, Italy, at the first World Deaf Congress, under the auspices of \"Ente Nazionale Sordomuti\" (ENS), the Italian Deaf Association. The first president of WFD was Professor Vittorio Ieralla, who was also, at that time, president of the ENS. The congress was attended by representatives from 25 countries.\n\nDr. Cesare Magarotto was one of the founders of World Federation of the Deaf and its first General Secretary (1951-1987) along with Mr. Vittorio Ieralla who was elected as the President from 1951 -1955.\n\nMr. Ieralla and Dr. Magarotto successfully convinced the Italian government to support their efforts to establish a WFD General Secretariat in Rome, in 1951. With continued support from the Italian government and later with the ENS, the WFD General Secretariat was able to establish informative and advocacy networks, with national federations of the Deaf around the world. Decades later, the WFD General Secretariat relocated to Finland (1987), with support from the Finnish government and the Finnish national of the Deaf led by the former WFD General Secretary Dr. Liisa Kauppinen (WFD President Emeritius).\n\nWFD has B-category status with the United Nations and is represented on the following groups':\n\n\nWFD provides expert advice on Deaf issues in its relationship with other international organizations and professional groups.\n\nThe legal seat of WFD is in Helsinki, Finland.\n\nAt present, emphasis is placed on the following areas:\n\n\nThe WFD claims to represent 70 million deaf people worldwide, of which more than 80 percent live in developing countries. This is done mainly through membership of national deaf organisations, where such organisations exist. , 130 national associations are members. Associate members, international members and individual members also make up WFD’s membership base.\n\nList of member associations (as of July 2014):\nThe World Congress of the World Federation of the Deaf has been held every four years since 1951. Organised by the WFD and the host country, this event is attended by thousands of Deaf people from all over the world. As well as convening the General Assembly (the highest decision-making body of the WFD) and forming the guidelines for the next four years of its work, the congress holds a large cultural program including theatre performances, cinema, exhibitions, performing arts, visits to local places of interest.\n\nDuring the 14th Congress the World Association of Sign Language Interpreters (WASLI) was established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "371680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371680", "title": "Worshipful Company of Leathersellers", "text": "Worshipful Company of Leathersellers\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Leathersellers is one of the Livery Companies of the City of London. The organisation originates from the latter part of the fourteenth century and received its Royal Charter in 1444, and thereby is the senior leather industry-related City Livery Company.\n\nThe Leathersellers' Company ranks fifteenth in the order of precedence of Livery Companies. The Company's motto is \"Soli Deo Honor et Gloria\", Latin for \"Honour and Glory to God Alone\".\n\nThe Company, which originally regulated leather merchants, continues to act as an advocate for the UK leather trade, together with its leather-associated livery partners: \"Cordwainers\", \"Curriers\", \"Girdlers\", \"Glovers\" and \"Saddlers\" . Like all these other Companies, today it is primarily involved in philanthropic, charitable and educational activities.\n\nThe Company is very closely linked with the Leathersellers' Federation of Schools (formerly Prendergast School), now comprising Prendergast Hilly Fields College, Prendergast Ladywell Fields College and Prendergast Vale College, all located within the London Borough of Lewisham. Since the mid-seventeenth century the Company has also been closely associated with Colfe's School, today an independent co-educational school located at Lee, near Lewisham, London. In addition the Company supports and maintains its longstanding connection with the Institute for Creative Leather Technologies (now a part of the University of Northampton), successor to the college which the Company founded at Bermondsey in 1909 as Leathersellers' Technical College. The Company continues to support higher education through exhibitions (grants) to university students, a practice which began in 1603 when four 'poor scholars', two at Oxford and two at Cambridge, were awarded five pounds and five shillings each \"per annum\". Today around 100 students receive exhibitions which enable them to study at various universities.\n\nThe Company is affiliated with the Royal Navy's submarine HMS \"Tireless\" and with 1st The Queen's Dragoon Guards.\n\nLike many other Livery Companies, it has a long tradition of maintaining almshouses. The first almshouses run by the Company were built circa 1543-44, close to Leathersellers' Hall, on a site behind St Ethelburga's Church and housed seven elderly people. In 1837 the Company also built almshouses at Barnet in north London. These were extended in the mid-nineteenth century. In 1866 it was decided to close the almshouses in the City and remove the residents from there to join those already at Barnet. The Company still maintains almshouses in the London Borough of Barnet, now known as Leathersellers' Close, home to about 20 residents.\n\nThe Company has had previous six Halls throughout its history, and is now in its seventh Hall, which was officially opened by HRH the Earl of Wessex in May 2017. Its first hall was on London Wall but in 1543 the Company acquired the former Benedictine Convent of St Helen, off Bishopsgate, and the subsequent Halls have all been on that site, now St Helen's Place. The fifth Hall was destroyed in May 1941 during the London Blitz. The sixth Hall was officially opened in 1960 and was demolished in 2011, though the façade of the building has been saved. The new, seventh Hall, has been designed by Eric Parry RA.\n\n"}
{"id": "4880109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4880109", "title": "Yetta Barsh Shachtman", "text": "Yetta Barsh Shachtman\n\nYetta Barsh Shachtman (1915–1996) was an American socialist politician, married to Max Shachtman, a Marxist theorist.\n\nShe wrote most of Albert Shanker's weekly columns for the \"New York Times\". At her funeral, Saul Bellow, a classmate, delivered a eulogy.\n\nYetta did not write most -- or even any -- of Al's weekly \"New York Times\" pieces. He wrote them himself -- typing with two fingers -- except during a stretch in 1975-76 when New York City was on the verge of bankruptcy and the United Federation of Teachers was on the verge of a strike (and during the strike itself).\n\nIn Memory of Yetta Barshevsky, by Saul Bellow\n"}
