{"id": "40949096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949096", "title": "Al HaMishmar", "text": "Al HaMishmar\n\nAl HaMishmar (, lit. \"On Guard\") was a daily newspaper published in Mandate Palestine and Israel between 1943 and 1995. The paper was owned by, and affiliated with Hashomer Hatzair as well as the Hashomer Hatzair Workers Party of Palestine, which became Mapam after 1948.\n\nThe paper was established under the name Mishmar on 30 July 1943 as the journal of Hashomer Hatzair. At the top of the first page of every issue was the banner \"For Zionism, Socialism and Brotherhood amongst Nations\". Its readership was mainly based on subscriptions from Kibbutz Artzi, Hashomer Hatzair and Mapam members. The name Al HaMishmar first appeared on the edition of 25 January 1948.\n\nIts journalists included Yoel Marcus, Eliezer Peri, Tom Segev, Shelly Yachimovich and Avi Benayahu, whilst Leah Goldberg, Avraham Shlonsky, Yehoshua Sobol and Yitzhak Orpaz-Auerbach were all contributors. The paper also had an Arabic version, \"al-Mersad\", of which Abd el-Aziz el-Zoubi and Muhammed Wattad were amongst the editors.\n\nFrom 1993 Kibbutz Artzi members were no longer automatically subscribers, and in 1995 the paper was closed, with the last edition on 31 March.\n\n"}
{"id": "2494935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494935", "title": "Altar cloth", "text": "Altar cloth\n\nAn altar cloth is used by various religious groups to cover an altar. It may be used as a sign of respect towards the holiness of the altar, as in the Catholic Church. Because many altars are made of wood and are often ornate and unique, cloth may then be used to protect the altar surface. In other cases, the cloth serves to beautify a rather mundane construction underneath.\n\nSpecial cloths (not necessarily made of linen) cover the altar in many Christian churches during services and celebrations, and are often left on the altar when it is not in use. In the early 20th century the Roman Catholic Church considered only linen or hemp to be acceptable as material for altar cloths, although in earlier centuries silk or cloth of gold or silver were used. The Anglican Communion had similar rules in that period.\n\nAt that time, the Roman Rite required the use of three altar cloths, to which a cere cloth, not classified as an altar cloth, was generally added. This was a piece of heavy linen treated with wax (\"cera\", from which \"cere\" is derived, is the Latin word for \"wax\") to protect the altar linens from the dampness of a stone altar, and also to prevent the altar from being stained by any wine that may be spilled. It was exactly the same size as the \"mensa\" (the flat rectangular top of the altar).\n\nAbove this were placed two linen cloths. Like the cere cloth, they were made of heavy linen exactly the same size as the mensa of the altar. They acted as a cushion and, with the cere cloth, prevented the altar from being dented by heavy vases or communion vessels placed on top. Instead of two cloths, a single long cloth folded so that each half covered the whole mensa was acceptable.\n\nThe topmost cloth was the fair linen, a long white linen cloth laid over the two linen cloths. It had the same depth as the mensa of the altar, but was longer, generally hanging over the edges to within a few inches of the floor or, according to some authorities, it should hang 18 inches over the ends of the mensa. On an altar without antependium and consisting of the mensa resting on columns or made after the fashion of a tomb the topmost linen did not have to overhang the edges at the sides. It could be trimmed with lace on the ends and could be ornamented with figures of chalices, hosts and the like. Five small crosses might be embroidered on the fair linen - one to fall at each corner of the mensa, and one in the middle of the front edge. These symbolised the five wounds of Jesus. The fair linen should be left on the altar at all times. When removed for replacement, it should be rolled, not folded. It symbolized the shroud in which Jesus was wrapped for burial.\n\n\nThe present rules of the Roman Rite are much less detailed, stating only:\n\nThere are also special linens which pertain to the Eucharist:\n\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church and the Anglican Communion all of the linen cloths are white, including their decoration. Other more decorative cloths sometimes used to decorate the front and back of the altar are:\n\n\nAccording to the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", altar-cloths were commonly used prior to the 4th century. Pope Boniface III is reputed to have passed a decree in the 7th century making the use of altar cloths mandatory. The use of three cloths most likely began in the 9th century and was obligatory for Roman Catholic churches at the time of the Catholic Encyclopedia.\n\nPreviously, all Christian Churches used altar cloths. However, today some use no cloths on the altar or only the fair linen. Several variants of the above cloths and linens are also in use. Some Churches use a frontlet and no frontal, especially where the altar is richly decorated and a frontal would hide it. Where only a frontlet is used, in many cases the frontlet is permanently attached to the linen cloth, and so the linen cloth must be replaced with the frontlet. Many Churches dispense with the cere cloth and the coverlet.\n\nMany churches of the Anglican Communion follow the tradition of the Latin Church in preparing the altar for the Eucharist. There are varying practices in the Episcopal Church; some do not use the elaborate altar dressing previously laid down for the Roman Catholic Church and usually use only a white \"fair linen\" cloth to cover the top of the altar. According to a glossary found on an Episcopal parish's website, the altar cloth they use \"... covers the top of the altar and hangs down the sides almost to the floor.\" Lutherans also use a single \"fair linen\" on their altar, though many use the coloured frontlet or frontal as well.\n\nLikewise, \"The Doctrines and Discipline of the Methodist Church\" specifies that \"The Lord's Table should have upon it a fair linen cloth.\"\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches of Byzantine Rite, the altar is referred to as the Holy Table or Throne (Church Slavonic: \"Prestol\"). Although there are variations, normally it will be completely covered on all four sides with three clothes.\n\n\nThe Antimension (Church Slavonic: \"Antimens\") is similar to the Western corporal, though it serves a function similar to an altar stone. It is a piece of silk or linen which has an icon of the Deposition from the Cross depicted on it, and relics of a martyr sewn into it. Unlike the Western corporal, the Antimension is not removed from the Holy Table after the Eucharist is over, but is kept in the center of the Holy Table, covered by the Gospel Book.\n\nThe Antimension is wrapped in a slightly larger cloth, called the Eiliton to protect it. The Eiliton is often red.\n\nThe Eastern chalice veil is called the Aër and is quite a bit larger than the chalice veil used in the West. In addition to the Aër, there are two other smaller veils. These are often cross-shaped like the Indítia and one is used to cover the chalice, and one is used to cover the \"diskos\" (paten).\n\nThere are usually one or two communion cloths (houselling cloths) kept on the Holy Table. These are made of cotton or some similar material that can be easily washed and are often dyed red. They are used like the Western purificator to wipe the lips of the communicants and to dry the chalice and other sacred vessels after the ablutions.\n\nA dust cover is frequently used, either to cover only the Gospel Book or the entire top of the Holy Table. This cover is not, strictly speaking, a liturgical object, but is purely utilitarian. Because it will rest upon the Holy Table, it is usually made of a fair material, but not normally as rich as the \"inditia\".\n\nTowels are used to dry the hands after lavabo, though their design and use are not as fixed as formerly in the West. When a bishop washes his hands, a larger and more ornate towel is used to dry his hands.\n\nAccording to the Bible the Jews were using altar \"cloths\" at the time of the Exodus, \"...And the table and his furniture, and the pure candlestick with all his furniture, and the altar of incense ... and the altar of burnt offering with all his furniture, and the laver and his foot, and the cloths of service...\" ()\n\nThe Jews traditionally used colour, \"And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths of service...\" which were to be used by the priests inside the tabernacle. Since all of the other items made from fabric for use in the tabernacle were made from fine linen it is reasonable to assume that the \"cloths of service\" were also made from linen.() Unfortunately, Exodus does not give the dimensions of the cloths, nor does it indicate how or when the cloths were to be used.\n\nThe practice of using altar cloths disappeared when the Temple in Jerusalem was destroyed in AD 70. The focus of worship turned towards the synagogue and the need for an altar disappeared. There is a table where the Torah scrolls are laid for reading, called a \"bimah\", and another lower table called an \"amud\", that is, a lectern. The lectern is covered with an embroidered cloth covering the area on which the Torah scroll will rest during the \"parashah\" (lection—see Torah reading). The Torah ark in the synagogue is covered with a cloth called the \"parokhet\" to recall the veil which covered the entrance to the Holy of Holies.\n\n"}
{"id": "26370870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26370870", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Italy", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Italy\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Italy dates from 1899 - the earliest known date for Bahá'ís in Italy. Bahá'í sources currently claim about 3,000 adherents in Italy in over 300 locations. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on projections from the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 5000 Bahá'ís in Italy in 2005.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, head of the religion from 1892 to 1921, wrote two letters to Italian Bahá'ís and mentioned Italy a few times addressing issues of war and peace as well. Though several people joined the religion before World War II by the end there may have been just one Bahá'í in the country. Soon a wave of pioneers was coordinated with the first Bahá'ís to arrive were Angeline and Ugo Giachery. By Ridván 1948 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Rome was elected. There were six communities across Italy and Switzerland when a regional national assembly was formed in 1953. The Italian Bahá'ís elected their own National Spiritual Assembly in 1962. A survey of the community in 1963 showed 14 assemblies and 18 smaller communities. Major conferences held in Italy include the Palermo Conference of 1968 to commemorate from the movement of Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the religion, from Gallipoli to the prison in Acre and the 2009 regional conference for southern Europe in Padua about the progress of the religion.\n\nJust before the founding of modern Italy Bahá'u'lláh addressed a message to Pope Pius IX a few years before the unification of the Kingdom of Italy. It was part of the series entitled Súriy-i-Haykal or Tablet of the Temple which was collected in English as part of the \"Summons of the Lord of Hosts\".\n\nAs early as 1899 there were two Bahá'ís in Italy - Edith Burr in Florence and Maria Forni. Burr was an American and a book of her poetry was published. Forni was of Polish extraction, lived in Ticino initially where she ran a private school for children with disabilities and presented Bahá'í teachings but soon she moved to Crevenna near Lake Como. Both had died by 1930. Burr was the recipient of two letters from `Abdu'l-Bahá. It was in November 1900 that Agnes Alexander learned of the religion while visiting family in Rome. While there she met Charlotte Dixon, an American Bahá'í who was just returning from a Bahá'í pilgrimage.\n\nJuliet Thompson, a prominent early Bahá'í from the United States, went through Italy in 1909 on Bahá'í pilgrimage to meet `Abdu'l-Bahá. Another, Horace Holley had set out for Europe in 1909 and met Bertha Herbert during the voyage. Herbert loaned him Myron Phelps' book about `Abdu'l-Bahá and Holley soon joined the religion. Herbert and Holley were married in October 1909 and settled in Italy. They then met `Abdu'l-Baha on both of his trips to Europe, and lived in Italy until 1912, when they moved to Paris. Maria Forni was among those who visited `Abdu'l-Bahá when he arrived in Switzerland in 1911 on his first trip to the West. On his second trip `Abdu'l-Bahá and his retinue boarded the RMS Cedric in Alexandria, Egypt bound for Naples where they arrived on March 28, 1912 though they did not disembark for fear of being confused with Turks during the ongoing Italo-Turkish War. Several Bahá'ís from America and Britain boarded the ship to travel with them. A youthful Shoghi Effendi had accompanied `Abdu'l-Bahá from Egypt but was refused further passage by reason of a minor illness and was taken ashore, though all were not convinced of the sincerity of the diagnosis and some presumed it was ill will against the voyagers as if they were Turkish. The American Bahá'ís had sent thousands of dollars for the journey, urging `Abdu'l-Bahá to leave the Cedric in Italy and travel to England to sail on the maiden voyage of the RMS Titanic. Instead he returned the money for charity and continued the voyage on the Cedric. Later a survivor met with him asking why he didn't go on the Titanic and he suggested \"God inspires man's heart.\"\nLater in April 1912 `Abdu'l-Bahá is recorded addressing that war:\n\nWhat a great tribulation there is in the countries of Italy and Turkey in these days! The fathers hear of the death of their sons and the sons are distressed on hearing the news of the death of their fathers. What cities are laid to ruin and what rising fortunes are thrown to the winds! The antidote for this great ill is world peace, which is the source of universal tranquillity.\n\nWhile in the United States `Abdu'l-Bahá had dedicated the site of the North American Bahá'í House of Worship. By 1915 Italian Bahá'ís were among those contributing to its construction. After his return to Egypt `Abdu'l-Bahá again took up mention of Italy and war. He wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The seventh of the tablets mentioned European regions and was written on April 11, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The seventh tablet was translated and presented on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919 and mentioned Italy. He says:\n\n\"In brief, this world-consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of the world the longing for universal peace is taking possession of the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.… Therefore, O ye believers of God! Show ye an effort and after this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British Isles, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portugal, Rumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shetland Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.\"\n\nWell known early Japanese Bahá'í Saichiro Fujita took a steamer to Italy about 1919-20, where he awaited `Abdu'l-Bahá's wire for him to proceed to Haifa. There was communication noted with Bahá'ís in Italy in 1923. Imogene Hoagg was noted as present in Florence in 1925. Marion Jack sailed for Italy during January, 1926. Anne Lynch fled Russia at the end of the first World War to settle in England and she accepted the Bahá'í Faith immediately upon first hearing of it in Italy in 1926 and then settled in Switzerland. A 1925 list of \"leading local Bahá'í Centres\" of Europe listed one in Italy. In 1930 a Bahá'í from Baghdad, a Mr. Toeg, was said to have moved to Milan. The first formal vote of international sanctions against aggression, taken in 1936 by the League of Nations, when Fascist Italy invaded Ethiopia causing the Second Italo-Abyssinian War, was hailed by Shoghi Effendi, head of the religion from 1921 to 1957, as: \"an event without parallel in human history\". On May 25, 1940 Shoghi Effendi and Rúhíyyih Khanum obtained passports for Britain while in Rome - a few days later Italy entered World War II.\n\nGeresina Campani of Florence may have been the only Bahá'í to remain alive and active through World War II. Starting in 1946 Shoghi Effendi drew up plans for the American Bahá'í community to send pioneers to Europe; the pioneers set up a European Teaching Committee chaired by Edna True. Possibly the first Bahá'ís after WWII to enter Italy were Angeline and Ugo Giachery. They reached Naples on 20 February 1947 and sent a telegram to Shoghi Effendi from Rome. By the end of March the first Italian convert was enrolled in Genoa. He was Augnsto Salvetti who heard of the religion from a Persian believer while he was a prisoner of war in India and investigated the religion on return to Italy. Brother Rodolfo Salvetti soon followed joining the religion - and pioneers Mr. and Mrs. Phillip Marengella arrived in Italy by mid-1947. There was also one Bahá'í in Milan - perhaps a Turkish refugee. By early 1948 two more Italians had joined the religion - Verena Venturini and Luigi Peveri. By Ridván 1948 the first Local Spiritual Assembly of Rome was elected. In 1948, Marion Little pioneered to Florence from America. Well known Bahá'í Dorothy Beecher Baker who was later named as a Hand of the Cause undertook a trip from 1948 across Europe including visiting Italy. Publications in Italian began with an introductory pamphlet which was sent to prominent citizens and to four hundred public libraries. This was followed by a new edition of John Esslemont's \"Bahá`u'lláh and the New Era\", a special copy of which, bound in tooled green leather, was sent to the archives of the Bahá'í Faith in Palestine. Until 1964 when she returned to America, she served as chairman of the Italian Publishing Committee, a field which gave scope to her artistic and administrative skills. Under her direction and guidance many of the major Writings of the Faith were translated into Italian and published. She died in 1980 and her body buried in Cap d'Ail Cemetery, near Monaco. William Sutherland Maxwell came to Italy to begin reviewing materials for the expansion of the Shrine of the Bab in 1948 which continued through 1951 with shipments to Palestine for the project. Architect Andrea Rocca, Professor Emeritus of the Beaux Arts Academy of Carrara, assisted in work with the Shrine as well as the later International Archives building. The first all-Bahá'í Italian family came to be in April 1949 followed by the conversion of 81-year-old Giuseppe Berardi by July.\n\nThe early 1950s was a big period for development of the religion in Italy. The local assemblies of Florence and Naples were elected first in 1951. Orientalist Alessandro Bausani joined the religion before April 1951 - eventually he was Professor Emeritus and Director of the School of Oriental Studies and the Institute of Islamic Studies at the University of Rome \"La Sapienza\", and he was a member of the \"Lincei\" National Academy. He helped sustain every institution or committee, national or local, on which he was called to serve. Emily Maude Waterworth Bosio (\"Maud Bosio\") was 54 years of age when she joined the religion in January 1953. During her fifteen years of service, Bosio was usually a member of the assembly of Florence. And the Bahá'í community in Sicily began in 1953.\n\nThere were six communities across Italy and Switzerland who elected 19 delegates who gathered for the convention to elect a regional national assembly in the city of Florence in the presence of Hand of the Cause Paul E. Haney and Ugo Giachary and Edna True, Chairman of the European Teaching Committee and who represented the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States at the proceedings. The proceedings included announcements of letters of `Abdu'l-Bahá to Italians, noted the attendance of 18 of the 19 delegates, elected the officers of the convention, welcomed guests, discussed the progress of the religion in the region, the role of the Bahá'í institutions, celebrated the Ridván events, and the actual secret ballot election of the national assembly. Its first members were: Dr. Ugo Giachery, Friedrich Schar, Dr. Alessandro Bausani, Marion Little, Prof. Mario Fiorentini, Anna Kunz, Stella Lanzar, Anne Lynch, and Elsa Steinmetz. Letters from the eleven other national assemblies then in existence were shared and there was an announcement that these assemblies were welcomed to a continental conference in Sweden later in the same year. Workshops at the convention were held on Bahá'í administration and tributes paid to various firsts in the community. A public session was then held at which Ugo Giachery spoke on the theme of a universal fermentation giving rise to civilization. Alessandro Bausani was a member of this regional assembly during all the years of its existence.\n\nIn October 1953 Marie Ciocca moved to Cagliari in Sardinia and was appointed by Shoghi Effendi as a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh. In January 1954 it was announced Hand of the Cause Dorothy Beecher Baker had died in a plane crash near the island of Elba en route to Rome from Pakistan where she had toured after helping an international conference in India. In February that all the goals assigned to Italy and Switzerland had all been settled by pioneers: Liechtenstein, Monaco, San Marino, and the islands of Sicily, Sardinia and Rhodes. In September Italy and Switzerland held its first summer school - 75 Bahá'ís attended the classes held in Bex les Bains. Following the work on the Shrine of the Báb further contracts were signed for materials and work for the International Archives building. The 3rd convention of the election of the Italo-Swiss assembly noted local assemblies had been elected in the goal location of Monte Carlo, Monaco. On 9 May 1955, following disruption of the Bahá'í community of Tehran Iran, the Shah's personal physician, Abdol Karim Ayadi, a Bahá'í, was told to leave the country for a while. For this reason he went to Italy for about nine months. Rita van Sombeek had been living in the Netherlands from 1947 but moved to Italy in the early 1950s where she served the interests of the religion. In 1955 the national center building of the Bahá'ís of Italy was dedicated in Rome. After causing Bahá'í divisions in 1957, Charles Mason Remey, took up residence in Florence where he died in April 1974. The local assembly of Palermo was first elected in 1958. The first spiritual assemblies of Genova and Milano were elected in 1959. By 1959 Italian Julio Savi was an active Bahá'í doing work in Ethiopia. Italian Augusto Robiati also became a Bahá'í in Ethiopia and Savi and Robiati later returned to Italy. In years to come Robiati would win peace and literary prizes. In 1959 Italian materials, after being part of the Shrine of the Báb and the building of the International Archives, began to be incorporated into the Bahá'í House of Worship in Kampala. The first local assemblies of Venice, Turin, and Perugia were all elected in 1960 (the first Baha'i arrived in Perugia in 1959.) Bahá'ís with a background or interest in pioneering gathered in Rome in November 1960 and discussed goals remaining in the country in three languages as well as holding classes on the subjects of the Universal House of Justice and \"Catholic Psychology and Bahá'í Faith\" and other topics. Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga visited many places including Sicily and mainland Italy in 1960 and again in 1971. Julio Savi was a member of the local assembly of Bologna which first formed April 1961 while the first Trieste, Padua, and Bari assemblies also formed. Hand of the Cause Shu'á'u'lláh 'Alá'i visited the Bahá'ís of Milan in 1961. In early 1962 Hand of the Cause `Alí-Akbar Furútan visited Bahá'ís in Florence and Milan. The 1962 edition of the \"Italian Books and Periodicals\", a review of Italian language publications by the government listed \"Le lezioni di San Giovanni d'Acri\" which was an independent translation of Some Answered Questions.\n\nThrough 1961-2 various public meetings began to be held. In February 1961 a joint conference of the Bahá'ís of two cities of Venice and Padua reviewed the progress of the religion there while a public meeting for the Bahá'í Naw-Rúz gathered Bahá'ís and guests from Bologna, Florence, Padua, Rimini, and San Marino. In October there were three events held to honor the United Nations. The first two were talks by Dr. Alessandro Bausani, member of the Italo-Swiss National Assembly and professor of oriental languages at the Universities of Rome and Naples, on the theme of \"United Nations and a United World\" in Florence and Bologna. The third event was Auxiliary Board member Mario Piarulli who spoke in Padua about the UN before an international audience. A feature writer of the Socialist newspaper Avanti interviewed Bausani, and then wrote an account, not only of the meeting but also of the religion in general. A public initiative in Turin drew about eighty people from Genoa, Milan, and Turin to hear Ugo Giachery speak about his slide-illustrated recent visit to Central America. This was followed by a series of six public meetings to give anyone interested an opportunity to investigate the religion. The average attendance was about seventy. In Bologna a public meeting was held where the audience heard Dr. Giachery on \"Bahá'í approaches to modern problems\". Another public meeting took place in Padua among youth.\n\nIn 1962 the Italian Bahá'í community elected its own National Spiritual Assembly. Its first members were:\nDavid Ned Blackmer Hossein Mahboubi, Teresa Taffa, Augusto Robiati, Heshmat Moayyad, Mario Fiorentini, Manutcher Majzub, Hossein Avaregan, and Mario Piarulli. Bausani was a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of Italy for twenty years until 1984. A total of 141 Bahá'ís came to the first Italian summer school, held in September near Rimini. Non-Baha'is also participated in some of the classes. Hand of the Cause Ugo Giachery gave a talk on \"The Historical, Religious and Literary Work of Shoghi Effendi.\"\n\nIn 1963 the members of the national assemblies then in existence were the delegates for the first election of the Universal House of Justice. The members of the Italian assembly were Professor Hossein Avaregan, Alessandro Bausani, David Ned Blackmer, Professor Mario Fiorentini, Manoutchehr Madjzoub, Hossein Mahboubi, Mario Piarulli, Augusto Robiati, and Teresa Taffa; six of whom were able to attend the convention itself.\n\nThe Bahá'í communities of Italy in 1963 were:\n\nIn 1963 Bahá'í Mrs. Meherangiz Munsiff of England, formerly of India, toured six cities with Indian art and slides of temples and holy places. In 1965 the International Club of the University of Padua invited the Bahá'ís to give a talk on the religion. Human Rights Day observances with Bahá'ís were also scheduled in many Italian cities - Bologna, Mantua, Padua, Milan, Genova, Turin and Florence. In December 1966 the Bahá'ís of Milan held two public conferences with members of various cultural clubs, the Press Club and others. Professor Bausani gave a presentation at the Cultural and Artistic Club of the University of Padua on religions that originated in Persia - the Bahá'í Faith in particular. In 1968 public meetings were held in Perugia, Milan, Anacapri, and in Palermo at Fiera del Mediterraneo. A public meeting for about 250 people was held at the town theater in Rimini in November 1968 with a piano recital and talk by Prof. Bausani. In May 1969 Prof. Bausani gave a talk at a public meeting in Lipari at which some 60 people attended - the subject was on \"the atomic age and the crisis in today's society\" and mentioned the religion. The series of events drew a week of attention in Mantova in November 1969. The aim was to reach the greater part of the population of the city and have the Faith known, at least in name. Copies of \"The Proclamation of Bahá'u'lláh\" were presented to leading local dignitaries and a number of events were held: public conferences, round-table discussions, a concert, and slide shows. World Religion Day was observed by the Bahá'ís in Rome with an interfaith public round table discussion at the Accademia Tiberina on the theme of \"Religion as an instrument of peace and unity\". In May 1971 a public event was held on Ischia island with youth performers. The Bahá'ís of Rimini held a conference in October 1975 in observance of International Women's Year. The city of Milan invited the Bahá'ís for a public presentation so the Bahá'ís organized a series of six lectures on various Bahá'í teachings.\n\nThe 1964 summer school was held in Bellaria, Guy Murchie was among the teachers of that year. The 1965 Italian summer school was held again in Bellaria near Rimini. This year the committee doubled reserved rooms and did so for two weeks instead of one. Happily 284 Bahá'ís attended from sixteen countries and more than twenty non-Baha'is attended. Two Hands of the Cause were present to teach classes - John Ferraby (\"The Charters of the Cause of God,\") and Abu'l-Qásim Faizi (\"The Meaning of History from the Bahá'í Point of View\"). The following year among the presentators for the 287 students was Dr. Firuz Kazemzadeh, former chairman of the National Assembly of the United States, and Prof. Alessandro Bausani, who, in addition to giving two courses, translated for the English, Persian and French speaking teachers. In 1965 the youth of Milan began holding weekend classes and a national youth committee was operating.\nA \"Youth Symposium\" was held at Rimini in March 1967 with over 120 attending; a graduate of the first training institute gave the public talk. The sixth Italian summer school took place at Contursi, near Naples, in September, 1967, with 169 participants from thirteen countries. Speakers and teachers of classes included Prof. Bausani and Dr. Giachery, Mr. Rosapepe, the attorney who obtained the recognition of the Faith in Italy and owner of the hotel where the school was held, Philip Hainsworth, member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the British Isles, Auxiliary Board member Dr. Eric Blumenthal, Augusto Robiati, Auxiliary Board member James Holmlund. The youth organized round-table discussions and afterwards a public conference was organized at the University Club. In the spring of 1968 the National Youth Committee of Italy organized a school at Passignano on the shores of Lake Trasimeno with 110 attendees. In September 1969 the seventh Italian Summer School took place at Igea Marina. Two Hands of the Cause of God, Dr. Adelbert Mlihlschlegel and Jalal Khazeh, three members of the Continental Board of Counsellors, Mrs. D. Ferraby, Mr. L. Henuzet, Dr. E. Blumenthal, as well as a professor of the University of Milan and a young assistant professor from the University of Florence. The 1971 National Baha'i Youth School was held in Pisa in April and was followed by a public conference and in June a Youth Symposium in San Marino was used to plan participation in a continental conference as well as a public meeting. In 1975 group of about 170 attended the National Youth Symposium at Florence. An additional school was held in Vieste as well. The September 1977 Bahá'í summer school was held in Giulianova - one of the speakers was Adib Taherzadeh. He was a speaker at the 1978 school along with others and a special guest Dr. Pagnanelli, director of the information center of the United Nations Organization in Rome, gave a public talk on \"The First 30 Years of the United Nations Organization.\" Eight hundred-fifty people from 19 countries attended the 1983 Italian Bahá'í summer school in the southern city of Cosenza. Special guests at the school were the Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum, who was making her first visit to the Italian Bahá'í community. About 120 children attended special classes arranged for them by the Italian National Children's Committee. The \"Austrian Dawnbreakers\" toured seven cities in Italy, presenting five concerts, taping two television shows, and appearing at former member of the ensemble, in three schools. Students in a Bahá'í children's class in 1988 in Milan raised money to sponsor a child in Haiti by paying his tuition for a year at the Anís Zunúzí Bahá'í School. About 600 youth from 20 countries gathered for the European Bahá'í Youth Conference in San Marino including some 40 youth Bahá'ís from Turkey. Guest speakers included various ministers of government of San Marino and as covered on state television and six newspapers.\n\nIn response to the 1966 Flood of the River Arno in Florence the National Spiritual Assembly of Italy appointed an \"Aid to Flood Victims Committee\" during the 1966 national conference on the progress of the religion in November. The members were: Houshyar Achraf, Mohammad Ravanbakhs, Col. Giulio Jacoviello, Sohrab Payment, and Maud Bosio. The first check received for the fund was from the Universal House of Justice. City Hall furnished Letters of introduction to the Aid Centers of the most damaged districts in Florence and Brozzi. Before October 1967 a variety of assistance was provided: seventy-five families visited; fifty-nine families assisted with more than 1,600 garments; forty-eight families given bed linen, towels, etc.; twenty-seven woolen blankets furnished; beds, mattresses, pillows, electric stoves and furniture distributed. The sum of $735 (1967 dollars) was given as emergency help to twenty families.\n\nIn 1954 a translation of John Esslemont's \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" was published. In 1956 a compilation of Bahá'u'lláh's writings was published as \"Spigolature dagli scritti\". On October 21, 1966, a review of the pamphlet, \"One God, One Truth, One People\", by Dr. Ugo Giachery, appeared in the Italian newspaper \"Il Secolo\" in Genoa Italy. It was positively reviewed by critic Nicola Ghiglione. \"Relazioni Religiose\", a press information agency dealing exclusively with religious affairs and worldwide theological developments, announced in its bulletin of February 9, 1967 the legal recognition of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Italy in an article reviewing the religion entitled \"The Religious Baha'i Community of Italy Obtains Juridical Recognition\". Augusto Robiati published a number of small books and articles in Italian including an introduction to the religion and about the role of assemblies and other works. Two books in particular were Robiati's award-winning \"Uomo Svegliati\" (1973) and \"Gli Otto Veli\"(1981). The first Italian edition in 1978 of The Dawn-Breakers was made available by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Italy. Julio Savi began to publish a number of books:\"Bahíyyih Khánum Ancella di Bahá\" (1983), and \"The Eternal Quest for God\" which was published in 1988 among them. Bausani's essays and articles were gathered together and published in one volume in 1991 by Casa Editrice Bahá'í (Roma) under the title: Saggi sulla Fede Bahá'í(Essays on the Bahá'í Faith). In 1991 a collection of essays about the Bahá'í Faith by Bausani was published. Others of his texts are used in academic religious classes in 2010. A 2001 book \"I Baha'i\" profiling the religion has been translated into Italian published through CESNUR (Centro Studi sulle Nuove Religion). Bausani was director of the Italian quarterly magazine \"Opinioni Bahá'í\" from its foundation which was published under authority of the national assembly starting in 1977. The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Italy initiated the publication of a special booklet for International Year of the Child containing quotations from the Bahá'í scriptures on the education of children.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics.\n\nThe religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482.\nItalian Association of Baha'i Studies in 1990. Baha'i Association of Socio-Economic Development named after Gianni Ballerio was established in 2003 and operates over forty projects across Regions of Italy.\n\nMore than forty youth attended the three-day conference in Florence that centered its discussion around specific challenges in Italy to the progress of the religion. Ugo Giachery met with youth and adult Bahá'ís in October and November. The first Italian Bahá'í of Mantua was Aida Neva.\n\nIn 1966 there were a number of developments. The Italian National Spiritual Assembly was able to register as an incorporated foundation under Italian law. The same year a gathering of Bahá'ís on Sardinia was coordinated and a talk given by Livia Pargentino, the first declared Sardinian Bahá'í. In 1966 two islands had their first pioneers- on the island of Capri it was Rouhaughy Fahteazam, and on the island of Lipari it was Teresa Taffa while in Sardinia there was the first Sardinian conversion occurred when Livia Pargentino joined the religion.\n\nThe first training institute for promulgating the religion in Italy was conducted by Mildred Mottahehdeh in February 1967. In 1968 a Catholic monk, Padre Marian, mentioned the religion on his television program and read the prayer by 'Abdu'l-Bahá. Also Maud Basio who aside from all her services (see below) was also mother of Mrs. Firuz Kazemzadeh, died. In 1969 the Italian Bahá'í Publishing Trust was established and the national assembly established cooperative relations with the Italian Esperanto Federation. By September 1970 Alfredo Speranza, a noted pianist who moved to Italy, joined the religion as well as the first citizen of San Marino. In May 1976 a 1,000-word article reviewing the religion was printed in La Stampa in Turin after interviewing the secretary of the national assembly A. Parsa, a member of the national assembly, was invited to start a weekly one-hour broadcast called \"Programme Baha'i\" on a station in Pisa. Other regular radio broadcasts began inBologna, Bolzano and Trofarello. Along with informational talks from Bahá'í teachings music was interspersed from various Baha'i musicians like Seals and Crofts, Dizzy Gillespie, England Dan and John Ford Coley as well as Italian artists. In February 1977 coordinated efforts focused the national community on Brescia, Cosenza and Salerno for one week and in Lipari, Messina and Trofarello the second week. At the end of the effort Salerno elected an assembly. The assembly of Trieste rented display case for Bahá'í literature at a bus terminal in Muggia and also awarded trophies for service to humanity. Cosenza was the focus of some effort in August 1977 when traveling teachers visiting the pioneer there. It was decided to show some filmstrips but the living room would not hold the more than 12 people who attended they set up to show the film outside, against the wall of the house. The neighbors were glad to cooperate. The woman downstairs handed chairs from her apartment out the window. Filmstrips like \"The Bahá'ís and the Holy Land\" and part of the \"Green Light Expedition\" about Rúhíyyih Khanum's travels in Bolivia and Peru. A month later the first assembly of Cosenza was elected.\n\nIn 1978 a diverse set of events took place in regards to the Bahá'í Faith in Italy. Some one hundred Bahá'ís met for a conference on the progress of the religion across Italy Florence in March 1978. All of the national assembly members were able to attend the April 1978 international convention to elect the Universal House of Justice which also served as an opportunity for the dedication of the Seat of the Universal House. The Italian firm \"Industria dei Marmi Vicentini\", one of the largest of Italy at least since the 1990s, produced a brochure covering the dedication and building to acquaint potential customers with the quality of its work in architectural marble. The brochure tells of the history of the religion, the role of the Universal House of Justice, and gives some details of the design of the building itself. The firm points out that its quarries would provide of \"Caesar's White\" marble similar to that from Penteliko Mountain that was used in The Parthenon which had 46 columns each high while the Seat of the Universal House of Justice has 58 columns each high. The workers were from Chiampo. The Bahá'í Publishing Trust of Italy and the Local Spiritual Assembly of Milan pooled resources to hold a booth at the 56th annual Milan Trade Fair in April. Other booths in Fairs were held in Cagliari and for the first time in Bari. The displays included Bahá'í literature - Milan's had materials in Arabic, English, Esperanto, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, as well as two books in Braille. A special guest at the Milan booth was the French Bahá'í author, Andre Brugiroux, who presented his film \"La Terre n'ext qu'un Seul Pays\" (The Earth is but One Country). The theme of the Bahá'í booths at all the fairs was the International Year of the Child. The Bahá'ís in Francavilla al Mare held their first public proclamation event June which was covered by the local newspaper, \"Il Messaggero Abruzzo\". Scandicci saw the first Bahá'í marriage ceremony and a large meeting was held in Verona using a room at the local Museum of Natural Sciences. Two of the nine large inscriptions on the remodeled facade of a Catholic church in Forlì included quotations from The Hidden Words along with Book of Jeremiah, the Talmud, the writings of Confucius, and the words of St. Francis of Assisi. In 1978 the national assembly reported the community had reached 43 assemblies and had sent one pioneer Nigeria, one to Switzerland, two to France. The January 1979 anniversary of the death of the Hand of the Cause of God Dorothy Beecher Baker was commemorated by the Baha'is of Portoferraio, Livorno and Alessandria for the ceremony at Portoferraio's City Hall. Among the guests were Roberto Bandinelli, a retired Harbor Office employee who was the first to arrive at the scene of the crash in 1954, and Domenico Barbieri, who was mayor of Portoferraio at the time.\n\nA 19-member delegation represented the Bahá'í International Community at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, France. At the 27th Sitting of the 33rd Ordinary Session the Assembly unanimously adopted Resolution No. 768 calling upon the Iranian authorities \"to extend to the Bahá'í community the constitutional guarantees with respect to religious, ethnic and philosophic minorities included in the new Iranian Constitution, \" and urging the governments of the member states of the Council of Europe to \"utilise every possible opportunity including European Community and United Nations channels, with a view to convincing the Iranian Government of the necessity to respect the law and international conventions to which it is a party.\" The Baha'i representatives, sent to Strasbourg by 16 National Spiritual Assemblies in Europe to support the work of the Baha'i International Community included Giovanni Fava form Italy. The Italian government's representative referred to UN reports drawn up on the situation then available and also during the debate specifically mentioned the treatment of the Bahá'ís in Iran. A draft of the resolution was adopted on March 11, 1982. See Persecution of Bahá'ís.\n\nIn 1983 the Bahá'í community of Italy had achieved its goal of 50 Spiritual Assemblies with the election of the first Assembly at Caserta in the Campania Region. At that time the only Regions of Italy not to have at least one Assembly were Sassari, North Sardinia, and in Campobasso, Molise. In 1985 the Italian Bahá'í community reached 55 assemblies with the first assemblies of Campobasso and San Pietro. Forty Bahá'ís from 28 localities joined the Bahá'ís of Perugia to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the formation of the SpiritUal Assembly of Perugia. At the event Dr. Giachery told the story of how, as a young wounded soldier, still ignorant of the Bahá'í Faith, he was in Perugia in 1916. A January 1988 episode of a 45-minute program in an Italian television series on \"Men and Prophets\" was devoted entirely to the religion with an independent introduction by Prof. Sergio Noia, a lecturer in languages and literature at the Catholic University of Milan describing the independent nature of the faith, explained its clear distinction from Islam, and showed that religious fanaticism has been the cause of the persecution of the religion to the present.\n\nIn March 1988 Prof. Alessandro Bausani, member of national institutions of the religion in Italy, academic and writer of numerous books, died. Hand of the Cause Dr. Giachery died while on a trip to American Samoa. In 1990 the Bahá'ís of Portici had quickly risen to 105 members and elected their first assembly.\n\nSicily had its first Bahá'í pioneers in 1953 with the arrivals of Emma Rice, and Stanley and Florence Bagley moving to Taormina and Palermo. The first local assembly of Palermo was elected in 1958 - and youth members of the community were contributing their own translations of various Bahá'í materials. By March 1961 the Sicilian Bahá'í community had sent eight pioneers to other areas.\n\nIn August 1968 the Universal House of Justice called for a conference to be held in Palermo to commemorate from the movement of Bahá'u'lláh from Gallipoli to the Most Great Prison. This event was compared with the migration of Abraham from Ur of the Chaldees to the region of Aleppo, the journey of Moses towards the Promised Land, the flight into Egypt of Mary and Joseph with the infant Jesus, and the Hegira of Muhammad. The setting for the observance was chosen, as the religion's first \"Oceanic Conference\", in light of the anniversary on the sea which bore it, as well as important steps in the progress of the religions of Christianity and Islam as well as the Bahá'í Faith (noting `Abdu'l-Bahá's journeys to the West across it.) With such themes as a backdrop it was also a purpose of the conference to raise the spirits of Bahá'ís, increase the rate of pioneers traveling to goal areas, and the state of funds. The national assembly of Italy undertook the organizing of the conference by appointing Teresa Taffa, Sohrab Payment, and Maud Bosio as coordinators of the conference. Over 2300 Bahá'ís from around the world arrived from 67 countries and served as a prelude to the visit to the Holy Land on the occasion of the Centenary of Bahá'u'lláh's arrival in 'Akká on August 31, 1868. The main site of the conference was at the Fiera del Mediterraneo. Provisions were available for simultaneous translation of the conference from English to Italian, Spanish, Persian, German and French. Professor Alessandro Bausani, as Chairman of the National Spiritual Assembly of Italy, welcomed everyone to the conference and noted the attendance of ten Hands of the Cause and all the members of the Continental Board of Counselors were introduced. Speeches reviewed a range of topics across 3 days - the circumstances of Bahá'u'lláh's trip, the cornerstone of the unity of mankind as a core teaching of the religion, the propagation of The Proclamation of Baha'u'llah as a collection of his works written around this anniversary, reports on the status of some of the communities in Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East as well as a summary of the worldwide community, the progress of the then being built Bahá'í House of Worship in Panama, a history of Akká and events in Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime. Giornale di Sicilia, a daily paper of Palermo, ran an article about interviewing Dizzy Gillespie in Bergamo noting his religion as Bahá'í in.\n\nA Sinti gypsy, Vittorio Mayer Custodino, (known as \"Spatzo\" or \"Sparrow\") came in contact with the religion while in prison in Sicily. Through him a number of Sicilian Sinti joined the religion by March 1978. In 1989 the first member of the Arbëreshë, Pietro Pandolfini, from Gela, joined the religion. In 1990 some sixty youth gathered in Gela for a conference.\n\nRespecting its regional autonomy and the depth of the Bahá'í community in 1995 the Bahá'ís of Sicily elected its own National Assembly. In September 2003 the Bahá'ís of Sicily celebrated the golden jubilee of the arrival of the religion there and which in 2003 had eleven assemblies.\n\nIn October 1953 Marie Ciocca moved to Cagliari in Sardinia and was appointed by Shoghi Effendi as a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh - Ciocca was an Italian-American and soon married James Holmlund who had also moved to Sardinia from America. In 1966 Livia Pargentino became the first native Sardinian Bahá'í. In August 1968 Ciocca was buried in the cemetery of Cagliari. In 1968 there was a public meeting in Sardinia which was also the subject of the local newspaper article. In November 1975 the local assembly of Cagliari held a booth at a 10-day fair on Sardinia as well as an observation of United Nations Day. In November 1975 a television talk program called \"Ore Venti\" out of Cagliari reviewed the religion. The interviewer opened the program with a reading from Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh. Alessandro Bausani then spoke of the history of the religion and explained Bahá'í administration. Another guest, Manuela Fanti, explained how and why she joined the religion. During the 25-minute interview Bausani stressed the universality of the religion by describing his recent trip to Bolivia. By summer 1976 Bahá'ís had been invited to address a number of religious studies classes in Cagliari and Alessandria, hour-long interviews had been granted on two Cagliari radio stations and an assembly was formed in Quartu Sant'Elena. In 1978 the Bahá'ís of Cagliari and Quartu Sant'Elena pooled resources to support a booth at the Trade Fair in 1978.\n\nIn 2002 the University of Bari established a course on ethics and economics, \"Ethics and Economy: Towards a New World Order\" that is based on Bahá'í teachings and appointed Bahá'í professor and businessman Giuseppe Robiati as its teacher. In 2008 the Baha'i community was hosting about 25 youth groups across Italy with more than 130 participants; three-fourths come from outside the Baha’i community. In February 2009 a regional conference for southern Europe was hosted for nearly 1,700 people, 300 of them children and junior youth, and 100-plus from Sicily alone, with Baha’i communities from across southern Europe. The conference was held at Abano Terme, just outside Padua. Artist presentations included two talented opera singers from Slovenia and Malta, a pianist from Romania, a Bulgarian folk singer, and a professional guitarist from Croatia, Greece sent a quintet of female singers as well as dancers from Rhodes, Sicilian folk dancers. Simultaneous translation was provided in English, Greek, Italian, and Romanian. Jamshid Varjavandi, the director of the Center for Baha’i Studies in Acuto attended. The `Irfán Colloquia regularly meet at the Center for Bahá'í Studies: Acuto, Italy since 1995.\n\nThe Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 5088 Bahá'ís in Italy in 2005. Bahá'í sources claim about 3000 adherents and are present in over 300 locations across Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31285384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31285384", "title": "Ballybough Cemetery", "text": "Ballybough Cemetery\n\nBallybough Cemetery () is a Jewish cemetery in Ballybough, Dublin. Founded in 1718, it is Ireland's oldest Jewish cemetery.\n\nThe cemetery is bounded on one side by a former Royal Irish Constabulary barracks (1830-1910). On the other side is the site of Elrington House, the 1748 home of John Dioderici (also referred to as Deoderice or Dioderice), maternal grandfather of the Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, Bishop Thomas Elrington.\n\nIn the 1700s, a small number of Jews had settled in the Annadale area off Ellis Avenue (what is now Philipsburg Avenue), Fairview; most of these marrano Jews came from Spain and Portugal (with some coming from the Netherlands), escaping the Inquisition.\n\nOn 28 October 1718, Alexander Felix (David Penso), Jacob Do Porto, and David Machado Do Sequeira, on behalf of the Ashkenazim, leased from Captain Chichester Phillips of Drumcondra Castle (an MP in the Irish Parliament) a plot of land on which the graveyard was subsequently built.\n\nThe Jewish community sought assistance from German and Polish Jews in London to build a wall around the cemetery. They were refused but were later supported by the Bevis Marks Synagogue who not only funded the wall but provided a supervisory agent from London. The title deeds for the cemetery were deposited at Bevis Marks Synagogue, where they remained as of 1906.\n\nA mortuary chapel was added in 1857 (inscribed on the front is \"Built in the Year 5618\", following the Hebrew Calendar). The cemetery itself contains more than 200 graves, the last burial there having taken place in 1958. Most of Dublin's Jewish community would be buried in Dolphins Barn cemetery now.\n\nA 1913 account in \"Life in Old Dublin\" by James Collins recounts that many headstones were removed from the cemetery by locals:\nThere were formerly a great number of tombs visible in this graveyard, but some have disappeared in a somewhat extraordinary manner. It is told in Whitlaw's and Walsh's History of Dublin, \"That they have been stolen at different times for the purpose of converting them into hearth-stones or other uses,\" and in support of this theory the following evidence is given : A Jew a short time ago (this is in 1818), paid a visit to a Christian friend in the neighbourhood of Ballybough, whom he found in the act of repairing his house. Examining his improvements he perceived near the fireplace a stone with a Hebrew inscription which intimated to the astonished Israelite that the body of his father was buried in the chimney.\"\n\nA comprehensive history of the cemetery titled \"The Jewish Cemetery at Ballybough in Dublin City\" was delivered by Bernard Shillman on 6 July 1925 at the Jewish Historical Society of England.\n\nFrom the late 1800s, the cemetery went into decline. The last burial in the 19th century was a Samuel Wachman in 1899. In the 20th century the only burials which took place were members of the Harris family: Juliette Harris (wife of Lewis Wormser Harris) in 1908; Ernest Wormser Harris (son of Juliette and Lewis Wormser Harris) in 1946; and lastly Maude Jeanette Harris, 1958. In 1898, a new cemetery was established on Aughavannagh Road in Dolphin's Barn by Robert Bradlaw and the Dolphin's Barn Jewish Burial Society. Bradlaw was one of the founders of the St. Kevin's Parade Synagogue. The new cemetery was dedicated to Sir Moses Montefiore.\n\nInspired by the old cemetery, Dublin poet Gerry McDonnell wrote a series of imaginary monologues called \"Mud Island Elegy\" in a poetry collection looking at Jewish life in 19th century Ireland.\n\nIt is sometimes incorrectly described as the graveyard that author Bram Stoker, who lived nearby, used to visit when he was young, and which influenced his novel Dracula. In fact, Stoker visited another nearby cemetery which was also sometimes called Ballybough Cemetery, known as the \"suicide plot\", which was used for suicide victims, robbers and highwaymen, through whose corpses' hearts wooden stakes were driven. This cemetery was likely located across the Luke Kelly Bridge on Clonliffe Road.\n"}
{"id": "13528160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13528160", "title": "Buddhism in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Buddhism in Saudi Arabia\n\nThe International Religious Freedom Report 2007, of U.S. Department of State, estimated that more than 8 million foreigners are living and working in Saudi Arabia, including Muslims and non-Muslims.\n\nThere are 400,000 Sri Lankans, as well as a few thousand Buddhist workers from East Asia, the majority of which are: Chinese, Vietnamese, and Taiwanese. There is also a possibility that a percentage of Nepalese immigrants also help make up the estimated 8 million foreign residents in Saudi Arabia.\n\nThis amount of foreign inhabitants makes about 1.5% of Saudi Arabia's population Buddhists, or around 400,000 nominal Buddhists, most likely giving Saudi Arabia the largest Buddhist community in the Middle East or Arab World.\n\n\nThe US State Department's International Religious Freedom Report 2007 - Saudi Arabia \n"}
{"id": "56435823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56435823", "title": "China Evangelical Seminary", "text": "China Evangelical Seminary\n\nChina Evangelical Seminary ( or ) is a private evangelical seminary based in Taipei, Taiwan.\n\nChina Evangelical Seminary was established in 1970 by James Hudson Taylor III. As founding president, Taylor saw the seminary as an institution to train university graduates in theological education.\n\nIn 1979, upon receiving an invitation to serve as general director of Overseas Missionary Fellowship, Taylor recommended to the seminary board to appoint a Chinese to lead the seminary. From 1980 to 1990, the seminary president was Timothy Lin, who also taught Old Testament and Pastoral Ministry.\n\nIn 1986, an extension campus was established in the Los Angeles suburb of Monterey Park, which is now known as the China Evangelical Seminary North America. This extension became independent in 2011.\n\nThe seminary is accredited by the Asia Theological Association and currently offers the following degrees:\n\n"}
{"id": "53129744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53129744", "title": "Colored Female Religious and Moral Society", "text": "Colored Female Religious and Moral Society\n\nThe Colored Female Religious and Moral Society was an African American women's club organized in 1818 in Salem. The group was started by forty women and they created their own constitution. The group's constitution was published in the \"Liberator\", an abolitionist paper. The members promised that they would \"be charitably watchful over each other.\" Members also were required to take an oath of secrecy. The organization was religious in nature, but they also worked to get sickness and death benefits for others. In 1833, after membership had dwindled, the society was again revived. Many of the members were \"Christian propertied elite.\"\n"}
{"id": "46533576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46533576", "title": "David Fink", "text": "David Fink\n\nRabbi Dr. David Fink is an Israeli Orthodox rabbi, PhD and expert in halacha and Jewish medical ethics.\n\nFink lived in the United States before making aliyah to Israel. Rabbi Fink received his Rabbinic ordination from Yeshivas Itri and the Mir yeshiva in Jerusalem, and was awarded his Ph.D in Semitic languages and Linguistics from Yale University. Fink has been actively teaching for more than two decades and is a well-known and an authoritative posek in Jerusalem.\n\nFink has been part of the faculty or taught at the following yeshivot in the United States and Israel:\n\n\nFink is a member of the editorial board of the \"Journal of Medical Ethics and Halacha\" published by the Dr. Falk Schlesinger Institute for Medical-Halachic Research at Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57332", "title": "David Jones (artist-poet)", "text": "David Jones (artist-poet)\n\nWalter David Jones CH, CBE (known as David Jones, 1 November 1895 – 28 October 1974) was both a painter and one of the first-generation British modernist poets. As a painter he worked chiefly in watercolour, painting portraits and animal, landscape, legendary and religious subjects. He was also a wood-engraver and designer of inscriptions. As a writer he was considered by T. S. Eliot to be of major importance, and his work \"The Anathemata\" was considered by W. H. Auden to be the best long poem written in English in the 20th century. Help in forming his work came from his Christian beliefs and Welsh heritage.\n\nJones was born on 1 November 1895 in Arabin Road, Brockley, Kent, now a suburb of South East London, and later lived in nearby Howson Road. His father, James Jones, had been born in Flintshire in north Wales, to a Welsh-speaking family but was discouraged from speaking Welsh by his father, who, in common with many Welsh-speaking parents of the time, believed that habitual use of the language might hold his child back in his career. James Jones had moved to London to work as a printer's overseer for the Christian Herald Press, and it was here that he had met his wife, Alice, a Londoner born and bred. They had three children: Harold (who died at nineteen of tuberculosis), Alice, and David.\n\nJones exhibited artistic promise at an early age, even entering his drawings into exhibitions of children's artwork. He wrote that from the age of six he knew that he would devote his life to art. In 1909, at fourteen, he persuaded his parents to allow him to abandon traditional education for art school and entered the Camberwell Art School. There he studied under A.S. Hartrick, who had worked with Van Gogh and Gauguin, Reginald Savage and Herbert Cole, and who introduced him to the work of the Impressionists and Pre-Raphaelites. At Camberwell it was mandatory to study English Literature, and in addition to his art studies Jones also developed his knowledge of literature.\n\nWith the outbreak of the First World War, Jones enlisted with the Royal Welch Fusiliers and served on the Western Front from 1915 to 1918 with the 38th (Welsh) Division. His experiences in the trenches were to prove important in his later painting and poetry, especially his involvement in the fighting at Mametz Wood. The consequences of this long period in the trenches on Jones's health were slow to emerge.\n\nIn 1919 he won a Government grant to study again at Camberwell Art School. From Camberwell, he followed its headmaster, Walter Bayes, to the Westminster School of Art in central London, where he studied under Bayes and Bernard Meninsky. The school was close to Westminster Cathedral, which Jones often visited to participate in Mass and to view the Stations of the Cross by Eric Gill. In 1921 he became a Roman Catholic and in 1922 he joined Eric Gill's Guild of St Joseph and St Dominic at Ditchling, Sussex, but not as a guild member. There Desmond Chute taught him to engrave in wood. In 1923 he first worked as an illustrator, for \"The Game\" published by Gill and H. Pepler. He returned to London in 1924, but in 1925 often visited Gill at Capel-y-ffin and the Benedictines at Caldey Island, near Tenby, and in the same year did illustrations for \"Gulliver's Travels\" for the Golden Cockerel Press.\n\nIn 1927 Jones returned to live full-time with his parents at Brockley, although he continued to move between Capel and Caldey, as well as spending time on the coast at Portslade near Hove. He was painting prolifically during this period, and exhibited seascapes and drawings of Wales at the St George's gallery. He also joined the Society of Wood Engravers. The following year he visited Salies-de-Béarn, in France with the Gills. In 1929 he exhibited at the Goupil gallery, including watercolor landscapes of France. From 1928 to 1935 he was a member of the Seven and Five Society, becoming well acquainted with Ben and Winifred Nicholson, Jim Ede and many of the artists and collectors that were associated with the group.\n\nIn 1932 the underlying stresses and memories from his time in trenches, and which were revisited in the course of writing and creating the first draft of \"In Parenthesis\", took a heavy toll and Jones suffered a severe nervous breakdown. This prevented him from painting for several years, and delayed publication of \"In Parenthesis\".\n\nJones's works were shown at Chicago in 1933, the Venice Biennale in 1934 and the World's Fair, New York, in 1939. In 1937 Faber published, \"In Parenthesis\", the epic poem based on his first seven months in the trenches. The following year it won the Hawthornden Prize, at the time the only important British literary award. In 1944 an exhibition of his art work toured Britain.\n\nIn 1947 he suffered a second nervous breakdown while staying with Helen Sutherland at Cockley Moor, and he underwent treatment in a nursing home near Harrow. He left the nursing home stronger in body and spirit – recovering through therapy in which he was encouraged to paint and draw as part of the healing process.\n\nIn 1952 Jones published \"The Anathemata\", a dramatic-symbolic anatomy of Western culture. In 1954 an Arts Council exhibition of his work toured Britain, visiting Aberystwyth, Cardiff, Swansea, Edinburgh and the Tate Gallery in London. In 1974 he published \"The Sleeping Lord\", a collection of short and mid-length poems. He had been frail and in ill-health for at least a decade, and he died in Harrow, Middlesex, in 1974. His grave can be found in Brockley and Ladywell Cemeteries near Brockley.\n\nAfter the war, Jones entered the Westminster School of Art, where he developed an interest in Post-Impressionism and studied under the British artist Walter Sickert, among other influential teachers. He also became increasingly attracted by Roman Catholicism, and in 1921 he converted, choosing \"Michael\" as his confirmation name. The priest who received Jones into the Church, Father John O'Connor (in fact the model for G. K. Chesterton's Father Brown character), suggested that he contact the Catholic artist Eric Gill. Gill ran the Guild of St Joseph and St Dominic, based on the medieval guild model, in Ditchling, Sussex. Jones joined the guild and learned wood and copper engraving as well as experimenting with wood carving. Jones soon began producing book illustrations for the St. Dominic's Press, and he would later illustrate for the Golden Cockerel Press, for which he engraved the Cockerel itself in 1925.\n\nGill split with the Guild of SS. Joseph and Dominic and moved with his family and some followers to Capel-y-ffin in southern Wales, to pursue a rural way of life. Jones spent much of the years 1924 to 1927 visiting the Gills and assorted hangers-on in a rambling former monastery there. He had already become engaged to Gill's middle daughter, Petra, whose long neck and high forehead continued as standard female features in Jones's artwork for the rest of his career, even though his engagement to her ended in 1927. Jones continued living in his family home in Brockley until the mid-1930s and some of his paintings depict the house and garden.\n\nJones's major illustrated books include wood engravings produced for editions of \"The Book of Jonah\", \"The Chester Play of the Deluge\", \"Aesop's Fables\" and \"Gulliver's Travels\" as well as for a Welsh translation of the Book of Ecclesiastes, \"Llyfr y Pregethwr\". He produced an important group of copperplate engravings for an edition of \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\". He also executed commissions for one-off engravings such as his illustration for T. S. Eliot's \"The Cultivation of Christmas Trees\". He professed great disappointment in the way that his illustrations for \"Gulliver's Travels\" had been subsequently hand-coloured by art students, and complained about the too-light reproduction of the wood engravings for \"The Chester Play of The Deluge\". Jones gave up engraving because of eye strain.\n\nAs a painter, his style changed over time from more free water colour landscapes, still lifes, and portraits to a unique mixture of pencil and water colour resulting in dense and busy works full of symbolism. His best-known paintings include early seascapes such as \"Manawydan's Glass Door\" and later works on legendary subjects, such as \"Trystan ac Esyllt\" (Tristan and Iseult).\n\nHe is also much admired for a genre that he invented later in life, which he termed \"painted inscriptions\", and these exert a continuing influence on calligraphers.\n\nAlthough he had been trying to write about his wartime experiences since 1928, it was not until 1937 that Jones published his first literary treatment of the conflict. \"In Parenthesis\", which was published by Faber and Faber with an introduction (in 1961) by T. S. Eliot, is a mixture of verse and prose-lines but the rich language establishes it as poetry, which is how Jones himself considered it. Jones's literary debut won praise from critics and from fellow-poets such as Eliot and W.B. Yeats, as well as garnering the Hawthornden Prize in the following year. Jones's style can be described as High Modernism; the poem draws on literary influences from the 6th-century Welsh epic \"Y Gododdin\" to Thomas Malory's \"Morte d'Arthur\" to the poetry of Gerard Manley Hopkins and \"Anabase\" by St. John Perse (translated by Eliot) to try to make sense of the carnage he witnessed in the trenches. An extract from \"In Parenthesis\" read by Jones himself in 1967 appears on the audiobook CD \"Artists Rifles\".\n\nHis next book, \"The Anathemata\", appeared in 1952 (again published by Faber). Inspired in part by a visit to Palestine during which he was struck by the historic parallels between the British and Roman occupations of the region, the book draws on materials from early British history and mythology and the history and myths of the Mediterranean region. The poem received largely positive reviews and was acclaimed by writers such as Herbert Read, W. H. Auden, Kathleen Raine and William Carlos Williams. Douglas Cleverdon produced dramatised readings of \"In Parenthesis\" and \"The Anathemata\" for the BBC Third Programme.\n\nUntil 1960, Jones worked on a long poem, of which \"The Anathemata\" was intended to form part. Sections of the work were published mainly in the magazine \"Agenda\", and in 1974 were published as \"The Sleeping Lord and Other Fragments\" (again by Faber). A posthumous volume of previously-unseen materials was edited by Harman Grisewood and René Hague and published by Agenda Editions as \"The Roman Quarry\".\n\nOn 11 November 1985, Jones was among sixteen Great War poets commemorated on a slate stone unveiled in Westminster Abbey's Poets' Corner. The inscription on the stone was written by a fellow Great War poet, Wilfred Owen. It reads: \"My subject is War, and the pity of War. The Poetry is in the pity.\"\n\nIn 2002, the text of three short poems was published for the first time in \"Wedding Poems\", edited by Thomas Dilworth. Two of these poems (\"Prothalamion\" and \"Epithalamion\", amounting to 271 lines) had been written while Jones was living in London during the Blitz, for the marriage of Harman Grisewood to Margaret Bailey. The third poem, \"The Brenner\" (24 lines), had been written on 18 March 1940 to mark the meeting of Benito Mussolini and Adolf Hitler on the Brenner Pass. According to their editor publication of these poems brought into print \"all the known completed poetry by David Jones\".\n\nJones wrote a number of essays on art, literature, religion and history. He wrote introductions for a few books such as a new edition of George Borrow's \"Wild Wales\"; he gave radio talks on the BBC Third Programme; he even tried his hand at an extended consideration of Coleridge's poem for a reprinting of \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\" featuring his own introduction and illustrations with a series of copper engravings. His essays were published in two collections, \"Epoch and Artist\" (Faber, 1959) and \"The Dying Gaul\" – another posthumous volume edited by a close friend and published by Faber in 1978. The most thorough exposition of David Jones's views on aesthetics and culture is his essay, \"Art and Sacrament\" (included in \"Epoch and Artist\"), which explores the meaning of signs and symbols in everyday life, relates them to Roman Catholic teachings such as the dogma of transubstantiation, and argues that human beings are the only animals which create \"gratuitous\" works, thus making them creators analogous to God. The best summary of these views is his short essay \"Use and Sign\" (in \"The Dying Gaul\").\n\nDavid Jones was a complex artist and his achievements are unusual, if not unique, in that he created admired and generally recognised important works both in the field of poetry and in the visual arts. However, according to the poet and critic Kathleen Raine, despite\"the supreme quality of his art... he has never at any time been a widely-read, still less a fashionable, writer, nor is he ever likely to become so for his work is too subtle and learned for popular tastes\" (\"Sewanee Review\", 1967).\n\nIn 1938 T. S. Eliot called \"In Parenthesis\" a 'work of genius', and Graham Greene, in 1980, \"among the great poems of the century\". W. H. Auden regarded \"The Anathemata\" as \"one of the most important poems of our time\", and called it in 1977, \"probably the finest long poem in English\" of the twentieth century. In 1962 Igor Stravinsky considered Jones \"perhaps the greatest living writer in English\", and in 1964 Herbert Read called him \"one of the greatest writers of our time\". In 1974 he was made a Companion of Honour.\n\nFollowing his death in 1974, Jones reputation declined. Artists who engaged with history and myth were not considered to be in tune with the times, either in poetry or art. Literary references in painting were anathema.\n\nA number of major exhibitions of David Jones paintings were mounted as part of the commemorations associated with the centenary of the First World War, in particular \"Vision and Memory\" at Pallant House in Chichester. At the same time much of his poetry was reissued, and subsequently a rapid reassessment has taken place, with new generations discovering his work. The impact of British television documentaries about the War Poets also brought his work to wider attention, in particular \"War of Words: Soldier-Poets of the Somme\", which was broadcast on BBC TV, with a narration by Michael Sheen. Since 2014 Jones reputation has soared and he is again being recognised as one of the most original and important poets and visual artists of the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14024326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14024326", "title": "Diotimus the Stoic", "text": "Diotimus the Stoic\n\nDiotimus () was a Stoic philosopher, who lived c. 100 BC.\n\nHe is said to have accused Epicurus of being depraved, and to have forged fifty letters, professing to have been written by Epicurus, to prove it. According to Athenaeus, who is evidently alluding to the same story in a passage where \"Diotimus\" apparently should be substituted for \"Theotimus\", he was convicted of the forgery, at the suit of Zeno the Epicurean, and put to death. We learn from Clement of Alexandria, that he considered happiness or well-being to consist, not in any one good, but in the perfect accumulation of blessings, which looks like a departure from strict Stoicism to the more sober view of Aristotle.\n"}
{"id": "263145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263145", "title": "Foras", "text": "Foras\n\nIn demonology, Foras (alternatively Forcas or Forrasis) is a powerful President of Hell, being obeyed by twenty-nine legions of demons. He teaches logic and ethics in all their branches, the virtues of all herbs and precious stones, can make a man witty, eloquent, invisible (invincible according to some authors), and live long, and can discover treasures and recover lost things.\n\nHe is depicted as a strong man.\n\nHis name seems to derive from Latin \"foras\" (out, outside).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49582973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49582973", "title": "Geziel Gomes", "text": "Geziel Gomes\n\nGeziel Nunes Gomes (Bacabal, 27 July 1940) is a religious minister, lecturer and Brazilian writer.\n\nPastor Geziel founded in 1999 the Church Missionary Evangelical Canaan and in 2010 founded the Union of Churches Mission Canaan (ÚNICA). It is owner of New Hope Publisher.\n\nSon of Pastor Francisco Assis Gomes, who was minister of the Gospel for 50 years in Brazil, and Izabel Nunes Gomes. He is married to Maura de Oliveira Gomes, who had a daughter, Keilah and five children, all pastors: Jadhiel, Joel, Geziel, Jeriel and Jesimiel.\n\nHe was ordained to the Sacred Ministry on 11 May 1960, in the temple of God's Assembly in Sao Cristovao.\n\nPastoring churches in the neighborhoods of Pottery, Long River and Governor's Island in the city of Rio de Janeiro, besides the cities of Caxambu, Minas Gerais, Sobradinho, in the Federal District, Recife, Pernambuco and Framingham, USA. Exercised missionary activities in the United States for 15 years, he lived in Indaiatuba, São Paulo, and currently resides in Florida, United States. Exerts itinerant ministry in Brazil and several countries, preaching the Word of God, and holding conferences and seminars.\n\nHe graduated in journalism in 1959, and holds a doctorate in theology at The Living Light Bible College and Theological Seminary [citation needed]. He is the author of 41 books, co-author of 3 books, and author of Little Thematic Encyclopedia of the Bible.\n\nIt was the minister chosen to celebrate, next to the Brasilia Cardinal Archbishop at the time, Don José Freire Falcão, the ecumenical service concelebrated the Black Hall of the Brazil National Congress, on the Solemn Session that was enacted the current Brazilian Constitution, 5 October 1988.\n\nWas one of the secretaries of the General Convention of the Assemblies of God in Brazil for four terms, was reviewer and then Messenger editor of Peace, official press organ of CGADB, taught classes and was commentator of several magazines Sunday School and is a member of the Lausanne Covenant of the Committee on World Evangelization.\n\n"}
{"id": "51349028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51349028", "title": "Hall of Guanyin", "text": "Hall of Guanyin\n\nThe Hall of Guanyin or Guanyin Hall ( or ) is the most important annex halls in Chinese Buddhist temples and mainly for enshrining Guanyin (Avalokiteśvara). Guanyin, also called \"Guanshiyin\" (), \"Guanshizizai\" (), \"Guanzizai\" (), etc., is the attendant of Amitabha and one of the \"Western Three Saints\" (). Guanyin is renowned for his mercy and sympathy. According to \"Chapter of the Universal Gate of Avalokiteśvara Bodhisattva\" (), if people are in danger, they just need to call his name and he will hear them and go to save them. Since he has many manifestations, different places enshrine different statues of Saint Guanyin (), Guanzizai (), and Thousand-armed and eyed Guanyin ().\n\nStatue of Saint Guanyin sits in the lotus posture with a lotus or the Yujingping in hand, wearing Keyura, necklaces and decorations and a precious crown on the head. There is a sitting statue of Amitabha () on the crown, which is the main symbol of Guanyin.\n\nStatue of Guanzizai sits with on leg crossing and one leg dropping. The Yujingping full of sweet dew and a willow branch is placed near him, representing his mercy and sympathy to spread to all the people. A boy and a girl serve as his attendants on his two sides. The boy is Sudhana (Shancai Tongzi; ) and the girl is Longnü ().\n\nThousand-armed and eyed Guanyin, has thousands of arms on both sides of the body. For statues, there are often 42 hands with one eye in each to symbolize the thousand hands. The middle two hands are in closing palm posture and other hands are holding Vajras, sutra scrolls Dharma seals and other weapons. Guanyin's thousand hands mean to protect all living creatures and the eyes mean to view over the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "6117583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6117583", "title": "Hinduism in Fiji", "text": "Hinduism in Fiji\n\nHinduism in Fiji has a following primarily among the Indo-Fijians, who are descendants of indentured workers brought to Fiji by the British, as cheap labor for colonial sugarcane plantations. Hindus, along with Indian Muslims, Christians and Sikhs, started arriving in Fiji starting with 1879 through 1920 when slavery-like indenture system was abolished by Britain. Some Indo-Fijians came to the island nation in the 1920s and 1930s. Fiji identifies people as Indo-Fijians if they can trace their ancestry to the Indian subcontinent, but not necessarily India. Most of the Hindus in Fiji, however, are of Indian descent.\n\nAccording to 1976 Census of Fiji, 40% of its population professed to be Hindus. From late 1980s through early 2000s, Fiji witnessed several coups and communal unrests, where Hindus faced persecution in Fiji. Many Hindus of Fiji emigrated to other countries. A 2004 estimate suggests about 261,000 Fijians were Hindus (33% of its 775,000 population).\n\nThe Hindu community in Fiji has built many temples, schools and community centers over time. Diwali is their primary festival of the year.\n\nFiji became part of the British colonial empire in 1874. Few years later, in 1879, the British government brought the first Indians on coolie ships, as indentured laborers to work in the sugarcane plantations of Fiji owned by British colonial officials. By 1919, about 60,000 Indians had been brought to Fiji, with job advertisements and work contracts that promised Indians right to return or right to stay, own land and live freely in Fiji after the 5 year work contract period was over. These contracts were called \"grimit\" (phonetically derived from the English word \"agreement\").\n\nNearly 85% of Indian origin people brought to Fiji as indentured laborers were Hindus (others were Indian Muslims, Indian Christians and Indian Sikhs). The indentured laborers were poor, escaping famines and poverty during the British colonial rule of India, and brought to Fiji as part of a wave that saw human migration as cheap labor from India, China and southeast Asian countries to plantations and mining operations in the Pacific Islands, Africa, Caribbean and South American nations. About a fourth of the immigrants came from South India primarily Tamil Nadu, while the remaining 75% are from northern states primarily Uttar Pradesh, but also from Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana and Punjab - each group bringing their own version of Hinduism.\n\nMany indentured Hindu laborers in Fiji preferred to return to India after their indentured labor contract was over. Estimates suggest 40% had returned by 1940, with higher return rates in early years. In 1920, after non-violent civil protests led by Gandhi against indenture system in British colonies around the world, Britain abolished the system. This stopped the inflow of new Indian labor into Fiji plantations, while Indians continued to leave Fiji plantations. The departure of productive, low cost Indian labor became a serious labor shortage problem for the British plantations. In 1929, the British colonial government granted Indo-Fijian Hindus electoral and some civil rights, in most part to stabilize exports and profits from its Fijian sugar plantations and to prevent Indian laborers from leaving from the labor-intensive plantations. But the electoral rights granted were limited, not proportional but racial quota based, and the government segregated Indo-Fijians in a manner similar to South Africa, that is on communal and racial basis from Europeans and native Fijians. This system was resisted by the Hindus, and in an act of peaceful protest, Hindus refused to accept the segregated council. However, within years, the Hindu community split along the lines of majority Sanatan Dharma group and a minority Arya Samaj group, a situation that delayed further development of Indo-Fijian political rights. A colleague of Gandhi, A. D. Patel led independence initiative in Fiji, demanding civil rights for all Fijians. However, the political segregation and unequal human rights for Hindus (and other Indo-Fijians) was retained in Fiji's first Constitution as the British empire granted independence to its colony Fiji in 1970.\n\nAccording to 1976 Census of Fiji, 295,000 people (or 50 percent of Fiji's population) were of Indo-Fijian origins, of which 80% were Hindus. In other words, 40 percent of Fiji's population were Hindus. After a period of persistent persecution from 1980s and several coups, which included burning of Hindu homes, arson of temples and rape, Fiji witnessed a wave of emigration of Hindus and other Indo-Fijians to Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Canada and India. About 50,000 of them emigrated after the 1987 coups, between 1987 and 1992 alone. The percentage population of Hindus in Fiji has declined since then, both in total and in percentage terms.\n\nAccording to the Republic of the Fiji Islands' 31 December 2004 estimate, 38.1 percent of the population of Fiji is Indo-Fijian, and 79.8 percent of Indo-Fijians are Hindus (with the rest being Sikhs, Muslims or Christians). Therefore, about 30 percent of the population of Fiji is Hindu.\n\nThe Hindu population in Fiji is not uniformly distributed. Population in some villages and towns such as Nadi and Nausori area have a Hindu majority.\n\nThe social structure among Fijian Hindus has lacked any caste structure. Scholars suggest that this lack of formation or observance of caste system among Fijian Hindus may have been because of the nature of work in Fijian plantations where everyone's profession revolved around farming, because Fijian Hindus lived together from the time they arrived in coolie ships, and because of demographic constraints faced by them. Extensive exogamy has been observed among Hindus of Fiji since the earliest days of plantation settlements, just like in other major indentured Hindu labor settlements in Mauritius, Natal (South Africa) and the Caribbean.\n\nAs with South Africa, the British colonial officials segregated people by race in Fiji. Plantation settlements in Fiji, as a policy, considered Indo-Fijian Hindus as a worker class, and did not allow them to live near or with European settlers, nor mix with native Fijian people. The segregation created a culture contact problem, that worsened over time. During the time of colonial rule, all the indigenous Fijians were proselytised and converted en masse to Christianity (mostly Methodism) by missionaries from Europe, mainly the British Isles. The Indo-Fijian Hindus, however, largely refused to convert and the great majority have remained Hindus to this very day.\n\nFijian Hindus celebrate Rama Navami, Holi and Diwali. Of these, Diwali is a public holiday in Fiji.\n\nIn the first half of 20th century, Holi was the principal festival for Hindus of Fiji. Thereafter, Diwali gained prominence. After Fiji gained independence from British rule, Diwali has eclipsed all other Hindu festivals, and is now the principal Fijian Hindu festival. John Kelly suggests that this may reflect socio-political situation in Fiji, the segregation faced by Hindus as they demanded equal political rights with European residents and native Fijian people. This shift in cultural milieu among Hindus in Fiji, posits Kelly, may be because Holi is a transcendence-oriented, all inclusive, extrospective festival, while Diwali is a perfection-oriented devotionalism and introspective festival.\n\nAmong the Hindus of Fiji, any kind of work including physical labor in farms, is culturally considered a form of \"puja\" (prayer) and religious offering.\n\nHindus began building temples after their arrival in Fiji. These served as venues for marriages, annual religious festivals, family prayers after the death of loved ones, and other social events. The Hindu temples were constructed both in northern and southern Indian styles. The Shiu Hindu temple at Nadawar in Nadi, for example, was built in 1910; however this temple was destroyed in an arson attack and communal violence against Hindus in 2008. Sri Siva Subramaniya Hindu Temple in Nadi is the largest Hindu temple in Fiji.\n\nIn addition to temples, Hindus built schools and community centers to improve the social and educational opportunities. For example, Kuppuswami Naidu, a devotee of Swami Vivekananda and who later was known as Sadhu Swami, visited various islands of Fiji and met diverse Hindu communities particularly from South India, to start the TISI Sangam initiative. This community effort over time created schools, nursing clinics, community assistance in farm technologies, temples and a community center/history museum for Hindu people in Fiji.\n\nIndo-Fijians were called upon to join the cause of allied forces during World War II. Over 5,000 Hindus in Fiji served with millions of soldiers from Australia, New Zealand, India and other British colonies during the war. Indo-Fijians served in Asia and Europe during the World War II.\n\nBy the time Fiji gained independence from the British colonial empire, Hindus and other Indo-Fijians constituted nearly fifty-percent of the total Fijian population. Nevertheless, the colonial era laws and the first constitution for Fiji, granted special rights to native Fijians. These laws relegated Hindus as unequal citizens of Fiji with unequal human rights. For example, it denied them property rights, such as the ability to buy or own land. Hindus and other Indo-Fijians have since then not enjoyed equal human rights as other Fijians. They can only work as tenant farmers for Fijian landlords. The difference in human rights has been a continuing source of conflict between \"native\" Fijians and Indo-Fijians, with native Fijians believing Fiji to be their ancestral land that only they can own, and Indo-Fijians demanding equal rights for all human beings.\n\nBeyond land ownership, Hindus have been persecuted in the Fijian communal structure. Spike Boydell states, \"the British introduced the divisive and unworkable system of communal representation and communal electoral rolls. Thus, different communities were represented by their own kind. This still extends to schooling in a prevailing quasi apartheid educational system.\"\n\nDuring the late 1990s, Fiji witnessed a series of riots by radical native Fijians against Hindus (and other Indo-Fijians). In the spring of 2000, the democratically elected Fijian government led by Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry was held hostage by a group headed by George Speight. They demanded a segregated state exclusively for the native Fijians, thereby legally abolishing any human rights the Hindu inhabitants have. Hindu owned shops, Hindu schools and temples were destroyed, vandalized and looted.\n\nThe Methodist Church of Fiji and Rotuma, and particularly Sitiveni Rabuka who led the 1987 coup in Fiji, called for the creation of a Christian State and endorsed forceful conversion of Hindus after a coup d'état in 1987. In 2012, Fiji Methodist Church's president, Tuikilakila Waqairatu, called for Fiji to officially declare Christianity as the state religion; the Hindu community leaders demanded that Fiji be a secular state where religion and state are separate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9496856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9496856", "title": "Hinduism in Lithuania", "text": "Hinduism in Lithuania\n\nHinduism is a minority religion and a fairly recent development in Lithuania. Hinduism is spread in Lithuania by Hindu organizations: ISKCON, Sathya Sai Baba, Brahma Kumaris and Osho Rajneesh.\n\nISKCON ( in lithuanian: Krišnos sąmonės judėjimo) the largest movement and oldest movement as the first Krishna followers date to 1979. and has three centres in Lithuania in Vilnius, Klaipėda and Kaunas. According to a census in 2001, 265 people identified themselves as followers of Krishna movement. The Sathya Sai Baba movement appeared in Lithuania around 1990 and according to the census had 107 followers although they officially have yet to attempt the establishment in Lithuania of that religion.\n\nBrahma Kumaris maintains the Centre Brahma Kumaris in Antakalnis, Vilnius.\n\nAccording to a census in 2001, 265 people identified themselves as followers of Hare Krishna movement,107 identified as Shri Sathya Sai Baba followers,and 12 identified as Osho Rajneesh movement ..\nA total of 384 hindus (0.01% of the population of Lithuania).\n\nAccording to 2011 census, there are 344 Krishnaites in Lithuania.\n.The number of followers of Shri Sathya Sai Baba and Osho Rajneesh movement were not published in 2011 census, they officially have yet to attempt the establishment in Lithuania of that movement.They might have been included in the 'other religion' in the 2011 census\n\nAccording to some Hindu nationalists, Lithuania was a \"Hindu-Buddhist\" society until Christianization in the 15th century. In this view, Lithuanian paganism was a dharmic religion related to Hinduism and Buddhism. This view has been proposed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a Hindu nationalist organization. It has no basis in fact, but is derived from certain similarities between the Lithuanian language and Sanskrit. It has no supporters outside of Hindu nationalist organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "45325497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45325497", "title": "Ilit Azoulay", "text": "Ilit Azoulay\n\nIlit Azoulay (born 1972) is an Israeli artist. She is best known for panoramic photo montages, depicting arrangements of different objects and materials she has collected from demolished buildings around the southern districts of Tel Aviv. She visited the buildings before demolition, exploring their rooms and examining their walls. After the demolition, Azoulay returned, searching through the remains and gathering pieces of them. In the studio, she sorted and cataloged the findings. Then photographs are made separately and used for collage preparation.\n\nAzoulay was born in the Jaffa district of Tel Aviv, Israel. She received a BFA from the Bezalel Academy of Art and Design in Jerusalem in 1998 and MFA of Bezalel Academy of Art and Design in Tel Aviv in 2010. She lives and works in Tel Aviv.\n\nShe had solo exhibitions in Andrea Meislin Gallery in New York and Herzliya Museum of Contemporary Art as well as Braverman Gallery, Tel Aviv. She also participated in numerous group exhibitions around the world. She is currently a resident at the Kunst-Werke Institute for Contemporary Art in Berlin. She has works in permanent collections of museums as well as in private collections in Israel and abroad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35025804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35025804", "title": "Inner-worldly asceticism", "text": "Inner-worldly asceticism\n\nInner-worldly asceticism was characterized by Max Weber in \"Economy and Society\" as the concentration of human behavior upon activities leading to salvation within the context of the everyday world.\n\nHe saw it as a prime influence in the emergence of modernity and the technological world, a point developed in \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\".\n\nWeber's typology of religion set off the distinction between asceticism and mysticism against that between inner-worldly and other-worldly orientations, to produce a four-fold set of religious types. According to Talcott Parsons, otherwordly stances provided no leverage upon socio-economic problems, and inner-worldly mystics attached no significance to the material world surrounding them, the inner-worldly ascetic acted within the institutions of the world, while being opposed to them, and as an instrument of God. However Stefan Zaleski showed that inner-worldly mysticism that is magic was interested in active transformation of reality.\n\nIn religions which can be characterized by inner-world-asceticim, the world appears to the religious virtuoso as his responsibility.\n\nFor Weber, the worldly ascetic is a rationalist. He rationalizes his own conduct but also rejects conduct which is specifically irrational, esthetic, or dependent upon his own emotional reactions to the world.\n\nInner-worldly asceticism, including above all Protestantism, taught the fulfillment of obligations in the world as the sole method of proving religious merit. Its emphasis on the importance of one's calling encouraged the differentiation of life-spheres, while its rationality favoured an emphasis on natural law – further aspects enhancing the impact Weber postulated such asceticism had upon the development of capitalism, or rather the particular type of capitalism Weber saw as marked by \"the rational organization and institutionalization of social relationships...rational bourgeois capitalism\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46997432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46997432", "title": "Invisible Eagle", "text": "Invisible Eagle\n\nInvisible Eagle - The History Of Nazi Occultism is a book written by Alan Baker. It was published in 2000 by Virgin Books. Among other subjects the book deals with themes of Hollow Earth theory, Welteislehre, foo fighters, Vril Society and similar speculative theories that were associated with the Third Reich.\n"}
{"id": "1187135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187135", "title": "Islam in the Comoros", "text": "Islam in the Comoros\n\nAccording to the 2006 estimate by the U.S. Department of State, roughly 98% of the population in the Comoros are Muslim. Virtually all Muslims in the Comoros are Sunni belonging to Shafi'i school of jurisprudence. Most adherents are Arab-Swahili, but there are also people of Indian, largely Gujarati, descent.\n\nLocal legend claims Islam was brought to the islands during Muhammad’s lifetime, brought by two Comorian nobles, Fey Bedja Mwamba and Mtswa Mwandze, who visited Mecca. Historical evidence suggests Arab merchants and exiled Zayidi Persian Shirazi princes first introduced the religion. Islam has long played a central role in the Comoros. Ruling families learned Arabic, performed \"Hajj\", and maintained ties with other Muslim communities, such as Kilwa, Zanzibar and Hadramawt. Several Sufi \"tariqa\", including the Shadhili, the Qadiriya, and the Rifa'i, are also active.\n\nHassan ibn Issa, a 16th-century Shirazi chief who claimed descent from the Islamic prophet Muhammad, encouraged conversion and constructed numerous \"masaajid\". In the 19th century, Sheikh Abdalah Darwesh initiated the Shadiliya \"tariqa\" in the Comoros. Born in Grande Comore, Sheikh Darwesh traveled throughout the Middle East and later converted Said Muhammad Al-Maarouf (d. 1904), who became the Shadilya’s supreme guide. Sheikh Al-Ami ibn Ali al-Mazruwi (d. 1949) was the first of the region's \"ulama\" to author Islamic literature in Swahili. Al-Habib Omar b. Ahmed Bin Sumeit (d. 1976) studied in Arab countries before serving as teacher and \"qadi\" in Madagascar, Zanzibar, and, after 1967, the Comoros.\n\nHundreds of mosques are scattered throughout the islands, as well as numerous \"madrassah\". Practically all children attend Quranic School for two or three years, usually starting around the age of five; there they learn the rudiments of Islam and Arabic linguistics. When rural children attend these schools, they sometimes move away from home and assist their teacher in working his land. In 1998, a new Grand Mosque, financed by the emir of Sharjah, was inaugurated in Moroni. The tombs of Islamic holy men and founders of ṭarīqah are frequently visited on religious occasions.\n\nComorians follow religious observances conscientiously and strictly adhere to religious orthodoxy. During colonization, the French did not attempt to supplant Islamic practices and were careful to respect the precedents of \"sharia\" as interpreted by the Shafi'i school of thought. All Muslim holidays are observed, including \"Id al-Adha, Muharram, Ashura, Mawlid, Laylat al-Mi'raj\" and Ramadan. Mawlid is marked by celebrations culminating in a feast prepared for the ulama. Many women wear the \"chirumani\", a printed cloth worn around the body. Comorians often consult mwalimus or fundi and marabouts for healing and protection from \"jinn\". \"Mwalimus\" activate \"jinn\" to determine propitious days for feasts, have a successful marriage, conduct healing ceremonies, and prepare amulets containing Quranic \"ayat\".\n\nThe chaotic economic and political climate since independence in 1975 has been detrimental to the development of human rights and social justice. Rival factions have sought to mobilize religious support both to uphold and contest political power and social inequality. Political opponents have relied on their own interpretation of the Quran and \"hadith\", advocating \"Shariah\" to rectify political corruption. Competing Islamic views have entered politics, both to justify and challenge the government. European trained government officials have adopted Western political ideologies and secularism while continuing to support leaders of Islamic brotherhoods. Islamism and Wahhabism has become increasingly as students returned from Islamic studies abroad. In response to perceived injustice and chaos within the Comorian government, Islamists hope to create an Islamic republic. Suspected al-Qaeda member Fazul Abdullah Mohammed was born in Moroni in the Comoros and has Kenyan as well as Comorian citizenship.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40020252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40020252", "title": "Jainimedu Jain temple", "text": "Jainimedu Jain temple\n\nJainimedu Jain temple is a 15th-century Jain temple located at Jainimedu , 3 km from the centre of Palakkad, Palakkad district, Kerala, India. It is dedicated to Chandraprabha, a Tirthankar of the Jain faith.\n\nThe celebrated Malayalam poet Kumaranasan, wrote his monumental poem Veenapoovu (The fallen flower) at a Jain house near here. The place name 'Jainimedu' itself is related to this temple.\n\nThe Jain temple was constructed in the 15th century by a family of diamond merchants from Karnataka. It was created by Inchana Satur. The temple was in a dilapidated condition for the past several years. At that time, there were around 400 Jain families in Jainimedu. The temple was renovated in 2013 and a Panch Kalyanak was performed. M. P. Veerendra Kumar, a prominent Keralite Jain, spoke at the event. The rituals were led by Bhuvanakeerthi Bhattakara Swamiji, the head of Kanakagiri Jain Mutt.\n\nThis is one of the few places in Kerala where the vestiges of Jainism in Kerala have survived.\n\nThe temple is 32 feet long and 20 feet wide and displays the images of Jain Tirthankaras and Yakshinis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4116424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4116424", "title": "Jewish Book Council", "text": "Jewish Book Council\n\nThe Jewish Book Council (Hebrew: ) founded in 1944, is an organization encouraging and contributing to Jewish literature. The goal of the council, as stated on its website, is \"to promote the reading, writing and publishing of quality English language books of Jewish content in North America\". The council sponsors the National Jewish Book Awards, the Sami Rohr Prize for Jewish Literature, the JBC Network, JBC Book Clubs, the Visiting Scribe series, and Jewish Book Month. It publishes an annual literary journal called \"Paper Brigade\".\n\nAs of January 1, 1994 the Jewish Book Council broke off from the JCC Association and became an independent not-for-profit 501(c)(3) corporation chartered in the State of New York. Its primary support is from individuals, and from organizations and foundations in the Jewish community.\n\nThe Council's origins date back to 1925, when Fanny Goldstein, a librarian at the West End Branch of the Boston Public Library, set up an exhibit of Judaic books as a focus of what she called Jewish Book Week. In 1927, with the assistance of Rabbi S. Felix Mendelsohn of Chicago, Jewish communities around the country adopted the event.\n\nJewish Book Week proved so successful that in 1940 the National Committee for Jewish Book Week was founded, with Fanny Goldstein as its chairperson. Dr. Mordecai Soltes succeeded her one-year later. Representatives of major American Jewish organizations served on this committee, as did groups interested in promulgating Yiddish and Hebrew literature.\n\nJewish Book Week activities proliferated and were extended to a one-month period in 1943. At the same time, the National Committee for Jewish Book Week became the Jewish Book Council, reflecting its broader scope. In March of the following year, the National Jewish Welfare Board, which would ultimately become the Jewish Community Centers Association, entered into an agreement with the Book Council to become its official sponsor and coordinating organization, providing financial support and organizational assistance. This arrangement reflected the realization that local JCCs were the primary site of community book fairs.\n\nWhile under the auspices of JCC association, the Jewish Book Council maintained an executive board, composed of representatives from major American Jewish organizations and leading figures in the literary world.\n\nFrom 1942 through 1999, the council published an annual journal called the \"Jewish Book Annual\". The journal reflected on \"the year’s events, figures, works, and community interests impacting Jewish literature and literacy.\" In 1999, the journal transformed into the \"Jewish Book World\", a quarterly magazine that was published through 2015.\n\nOn January 1, 1994, the Jewish Book Council became an autonomous organization. Convinced that the Jewish Book Council remained essential to the People of the Book, the Council's executive board voted to create an independent entity. The new organization is a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) corporation chartered in the State of New York. It is supported, to a large degree, by dedicated and interested individuals and foundations in the Jewish community.\n\nJewish Book Council's annual literary magazine, Paper Brigade, is named in honor of the group of writers and intellectuals in the Vilna Ghetto who rescued thousands of Jewish books and documents from Nazi destruction. Each issue provides a 200-page snapshot of the Jewish literary landscape in America and abroad, including essays, fiction, poetry, and visual arts.\n\nJBC helps book clubs find reading material and discussion questions, whether the book club is formal or informal; social or educational; interested in reading only books of Jewish content, just a few Jewish books throughout the year, or good literature that happens to have Jewish themes.\n\n\"Jewish Book World\" was a quarterly magazine published by the Jewish Book Council from 1982 to 2015. It was devoted to the promotion of books of Jewish interest. \"Jewish Book World\" reached over 5,000 readers with a specific interest in Jewish books, including library professionals, book festival coordinators, book group members, academicians, and lay leaders. The magazine was a tool to help them learn about new books of Jewish interest and make informed reading choices. Often called \"the \"Publishers Weekly\" of Jewish literature\", \"Jewish Book World\" brought the world of Jewish books to interested readers. \n\n\"Jewish Book World\" began as a twelve-page pamphlet that was circulated to Jewish Community Centers, featuring short blurbs on approximately 50 new books of Jewish interest. In 1994, \"Jewish Book World\" expanded from a pamphlet to a full-length magazine that was published three times a year. \"Jewish Book World\" appeared quarterly and included reviews of over 120 books per issue, updates on literary events and industry news, author profiles, and articles on the world of Jewish books.\n\nSince the discontinuance of \"Jewish Book World\", Jewish Book Council has been publishing online content such as book reviews, author interviews, and excerpts from up-and-coming Jewish books on their website, where readers can found hundreds of new reviews each year.\n\nThe Prosenpeople is the Jewish Book Council's blog. It posts book reviews, excerpts, and author interviews. The Prosenpeople also includes the Visiting Scribe series, a portion of the blog which features guest bloggers. These guest bloggers offer voices from the new Jewish literary scene and are most often Jewish Book Network authors.\n\nThe National Jewish Book Awards is the longest-running North American awards program of its kind in the field of Jewish literature and is recognized as the most prestigious. The awards, presented by category, are designed to give recognition to outstanding books, to stimulate writers to further literary creativity and to encourage the reading of worthwhile titles.\n\nThe National Jewish Book Awards program began in 1950 when the Jewish Book Council presented awards to authors of Jewish books at its annual meeting. The first book awarded the prize was \"Philo: Foundations of Religious Philosophy in Judaism, Christianity and Islam\" by Harry Austryn Wolfson. Among the past notable literary winners are Sonia Levitin, Howard Fast, Chaim Grade, Samuel Heilman, John Hersey, Bernard Malamud, Cynthia Ozick, Chaim Potok, Arthur A. Cohen, Philip Roth, I.B. Singer, Michael Chabon, Lauren Belfer, and Elie Wiesel.\n\nIn addition to the category awards, every year since 2002, one non-fiction book has been selected as the winner of the Everett Family Foundation Jewish Book of the Year Award. The last winner was Daniel Gordis. With such prominent, influential thinkers participating in the program, the awards have a significant impact on American Jewish cultural life.\n\nThe JBC Network is a membership organization of over 120 participating sites, JCCs, synagogues, , Jewish Federations and other related organizations that host Jewish book programs. Through the Network, the Jewish Book Council is able to provide extensive resources to the program coordinators, including introduction to authors interested in touring Jewish book festivals, advice from experts on topics that affect a book program, and a chance to learn from the experiences of others in the field.\n\nJewish books are an essential part of Jewish culture. Programming for Jewish book events is a vital component. In recent years, the Jewish book festivals have grown into a $3 million industry. The Jewish Book Network goes a long way towards assisting in the preparation of successful events and connecting authors of Jewish interest books with the coordinators of these programs.\n\nThe Jewish Book Council formed the JBC Network in 1999 to serve as a central address for book programming. It functions on a year-round basis, although the primary focus remains on the Fall Jewish Book Month season. The Jewish Book Council assists with program suggestions and coordinates the speaking tours of more than 260 authors who travel country-wide during the Fall season and throughout the year. The Jewish Book Council annually prepares a book providing information about the authors on tour.\n\nEach year the Jewish Book Council sponsors a conference for all JBC Network members and their lay leaders in conjunction with the annual BookExpo America. This conference begins the new season of book festival planning. In addition to workshops and networking among the Network members, the annual conference includes a program called Meet the Author. Through this event, authors are invited to speak to the members of the JBC Network in the hopes of touring and visiting with the Jewish book programs that are represented. Among the authors who were sponsored in the past are Warren Bass, Rich Cohen, Nathan Englander, Samuel G. Freedman, Jonathan Safran Foer, Myla Goldberg, Ari L. Goldman, Rabbi Irving Greenberg, Dara Horn, David Horowitz, Dr. Eric Kandel, Nicole Krauss, Rabbi Harold Kushner, Aaron Lansky, Daniel Libeskind, Tova Mirvis, Dr. Deborah Dash Moore, Judea Pearl, Naomi Ragen, Nessa Rapoport, Shulamit Reinharz, Steven V. Roberts, Jonathan Rosen, Ambassador Dennis Ross, and Dr. Jonathan Sarna.\n\nThis is an annual $100,000 prize awarded to the finest works of Jewish interest. Established in 2006 by Sami Rohr's descendants on his 80th birthday, it is one of the richest literary prizes in the world. It alternates between fiction and non-fiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "26937436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26937436", "title": "Lamin Sanneh", "text": "Lamin Sanneh\n\nLamin Sanneh (born 1942) is the D. Willis James Professor of Missions and World Christianity at Yale Divinity School and Professor of History at Yale University.\n\nSanneh was born and raised in Gambia. After studying at the University of Birmingham and the Near East School of Theology, Beirut, he earned his doctorate in Islamic History at the University of London. Since then, he has written many books and articles on the relationship between Islam and Christianity (titles include \"Faith and Power: Christianity and Islam in \"Secular\" Britain\", \"The Crown and the Turban: Muslims and West African Pluralism\", and \"Piety and Power: Muslims and Christians in West Africa\"). Sanneh converted to Christianity from Islam and is now a practicing Roman Catholic.\n\nAnother major area of Sanneh's academic work is in the study of World Christianity. He writes extensively about the translation of the Christian message, challenging a good deal of the accepted history of mission in the modern academy. In his 1989 \"Translating the Message\", he writes: \n\nIn time, Christianity expanded from Europe into Asia and Africa, among other places, and was able to break out of its Western cultural confinement by repeating the process by which the church's missionary center shifted from Jerusalem to Antioch and beyond. In some important respects, however, the modern shift was unprecedented, for it was the extraordinary multiplicity of mother-tongue idioms that became the subject of Christian mission rather than the cosmopolitan values of an ascendant West. Nonetheless, mission maintained continuity with its apostolic past. In examining the modern missionary phase, however, we should highlight important signposts in the indigenous culture, especially in the local encounter with the modern West. The translation role of missionaries cast them as unwitting allies of mother-tongue speakers and as reluctant opponents of colonial domination.\n\nHe extends these historical reflections further in his 2008 \"Disciples of All Nations\".\n\nAs a professor, Sanneh has taught and worked at the University of Ghana, the University of Aberdeen in Scotland, Harvard, and (since 1989) at Yale. He is an editor-at-large of \"The Christian Century\", and serves on the board of several other journals. According to the Yale University website, \"He is an Honorary Research Professor at the School of Oriental and African Studies In the University of London, and is a life member of Clare Hall, Cambridge University. He serves on the board of Ethics and Public Policy at Harvard University, and the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute in Birmingham, Alabama.\" Sanneh is also a Commandeur de l'Ordre National du Lion, Senegal's highest national honor. He is a member of the Pontifical Commission of the Historical Sciences and of the Pontifical Commission on Religious Relations with Muslims. Sanneh is a naturalized United States citizen.\n\nIn 2018, a new institute was created in his name, the Sanneh Institute at the University of Ghana.\n\nHis wife, Sandra Sanneh, is a professor of isiZulu at Yale University. Their son, Kelefa Sanneh writes about culture for \"The New Yorker\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35368134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35368134", "title": "Lampsace", "text": "Lampsace\n\nIn Greek legendary history, Lampsace or Lampsake (Λαμψάκη) was the eponym of the city Lampsacus, honored as a heroine and later deified. The story concerning her, known from the works of Plutarch and Polyaenus, is as follows.\n\nLampsace was the daughter of Mandron, king of the Bebryces in Pityussa (the older name for Lampsacus). Her father was assisted by Phobus of Phocaea in a military conflict against the neighboring people, and, in reward, assigned to Phobus a part of his kingdom, to where the latter led a colony from Phocaea. The colonists subsequently led several successful military campaigns and obtained plenty of trophies, which made the barbarian population of Pityussa fear and envy them. Thereupon the Bebrycians devised a plot to drive the Greeks out of their land in the absence of Mandron. Lampsace became aware of the plot and reported it to the Greeks, who then forestalled the barbarians by developing a stratagem of their own: they invited the Bebrycians to a sacrificial banquet and when those got drunk, one half of the Greeks massacred them while the other half was taking control over the city walls. The Greeks then invited Mandron to reign over them but he chose to leave, taking wives and children of those slain away with him. Lampsace was greatly honored for having informed the Greeks of the imminent threat, but she fell sick and died. The citizens gave magnificent burial to her and went on to worship her as a heroine, renaming Pityussa to Lampsacus in her honor; later on a vote was held to promote her to the status of a goddess. As such she was venerated as late as the times of Plutarch.\n\n"}
{"id": "3727255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3727255", "title": "Lapis alectorius", "text": "Lapis alectorius\n\nA lapis alectorius, alectoria or capon stone is a non-precious stone found in the gizzard of capons (young, castrated roosters). In magic it is believed to be an effective amulet, granting the wearer a heightened sense of courage and boldness. These properties are unproven.\n\n"}
{"id": "40372444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40372444", "title": "Les mille et une nuits", "text": "Les mille et une nuits\n\nLes mille et une nuits, contes arabes traduits en français (\"The Thousand and One Nights, Arab stories translated into French\"), published in 12 volumes between 1704 and 1717, was the first European version of \"The Thousand and One Nights\" tales. The French translation by Antoine Galland (1646-1715) derived from an Arabic text of the Syrian recension of the medieval work as well as other sources. It included stories that are not found in the original Arabic manuscripts — the so-called \"orphan tales\" — such as the famous \"Aladdin\" and \"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\", which first appeared in print in Galland's form. Immensely popular at the time of initial publication, and enormously influential later, subsequent volumes were introduced using Galland's name although the stories were written by unknown persons at the behest of a publisher wanting to capitalize on their popularity.\n\nGalland had come across a manuscript of \"The Tale of Sindbad the Sailor\" in Constantinople during the 1690s and in 1701 he published his French translation of it. Its success encouraged him to embark on a translation of a 14th-century Syrian manuscript of tales from \"The Thousand and One Nights\". The first two volumes of this work, under the title \"Les mille et une nuit\", appeared in 1704. The twelfth and final volume was published posthumously in 1717.\n\nGalland translated the first part of his work solely from the Syrian manuscript, but in 1709 he was introduced to another source in the form of a Syrian Christian — a Maronite scholar and monk from Aleppo whom he called Youhenna (“Hanna”) Diab. Galland's diary (March 25, 1709) records that he met Hanna through Paul Lucas, a French traveler who had brought him to Paris. Hanna recounted 14 stories to Galland from memory and Galland chose to include seven of them in his books. (For example, Galland's diary tells that his translation of \"Aladdin\" was made in the winter of 1709–10. It was included in his volumes IX and X, published in 1710.) This mysterious situation has led some scholars to conclude that Galland invented the \"orphan tales\" himself and that subsequent Arabic versions are merely later renderings of his original French.\n\nGalland adapted his translation to the taste of the times. The immediate success the tales enjoyed was partly due to the vogue for fairy stories — in French, \"contes de fees\" — which had been started in France in the 1690s by Galland's friend Charles Perrault. Galland was also eager to conform to the literary canons of the era. He cut many of the erotic passages out along with all of the poetry. This caused Sir Richard Burton to refer to \"Galland's delightful abbreviation and adaptation\" which \"in no wise represent[s] the eastern original.\"\n\nGalland’s translation was greeted with immense enthusiasm and was soon further translated into many other European languages:\n\n\nThese produced a wave of imitations and the widespread 18th century fashion for oriental tales.\n\n\"Les Mille et une Nuits\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn a 1936 essay, Jorge Luis Borges wrote:Another fact is undeniable. The most famous and eloquent encomiums of \"The Thousand and One Nights\" — by Coleridge, Thomas de Quincey, Stendhal, Tennyson, Edgar Allan Poe, Newman — are from readers of Galland's translation. Two hundred years and ten better translations have passed, but the man in Europe or the Americas who thinks of the \"Thousand and One Nights\" thinks, invariably, of this first translation. The Spanish adjective \"milyunanochesco\" [thousand-and-one-nights-esque] ... has nothing to do with the erudite obscenities of Burton or Mardrus, and everything to do with Antoine Galland's bijoux and sorceries.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37887209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37887209", "title": "List of Catholic churches in Austria", "text": "List of Catholic churches in Austria\n\nThis is a list of Catholic churches in Austria.\n\nSee: List of cathedrals in Austria#Roman Catholic\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "823302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=823302", "title": "Littlewood's law", "text": "Littlewood's law\n\nLittlewood's law states that a person can expect to experience events with odds of one in a million (defined by the law as a \"miracle\") at the rate of about one per month.\n\nThe law was framed by Cambridge University Professor John Edensor Littlewood, and published in a 1986 collection of his work, \"A Mathematician's Miscellany\". It seeks among other things to debunk one element of supposed supernatural phenomenology and is related to the more general law of truly large numbers, which states that with a sample size large enough, any outrageous (in terms of probability model of single sample) thing is likely to happen.\n\nLittlewood defines a miracle as an exceptional event of special significance occurring at a frequency of one in a million. He assumes that during the hours in which a human is awake and alert, a human will see or hear one \"event\" per second, which may be either exceptional or unexceptional. Additionally, Littlewood supposes that a human is alert for about eight hours per day.\n\nAs a result, a human will in 35 days have experienced under these suppositions about one million events. Accepting this definition of a miracle, one can expect to observe one miraculous event for every 35 days' time, on average – and therefore, according to this reasoning, seemingly miraculous events are actually commonplace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2893799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2893799", "title": "Mahpiya Ska", "text": "Mahpiya Ska\n\nMahpiya Ska (Sioux language) or White Cloud (July 10, 1996 - November 14, 2016) was an albino female buffalo primarily residing at the National Buffalo Museum located in Jamestown, North Dakota. She was on loan to the museum and the project caring for her was funded by the City of Jamestown for approximately $10,000 per year. She was certified a true Albino American Bison. She died November 14, 2016, at her birthplace herd that she had been returned to, Shirek Buffalo Ranch.\n\nWhite Cloud, like most albino buffalo, was almost totally deaf and had limited vision and joined the herd located at the museum in 1997. She gave birth to several calves, although none of them were pure white. Native Americans from all over America performed sacred pilgrimages to visit her. She was allowed to roam freely within a several hundred acre expanse of the museum grounds. The fence outside of her compound in Jamestown was tied with hundreds of prayer and ribbon bundles from Native Americans who traveled thousands of miles to offer prayers and receive blessings.\n\nAccording to \"Buffalo Tales\", the newsletter of the North Dakota Buffalo Foundation and the National Buffalo Museum, White Cloud had a white calf on August 31, 2007. According to the newsletter and the museum's website this was White Cloud's first white calf. Museum officials determined that the calf was a male, but it would not be named until January 2008. The museum solicited suggestions from the public for a name for the calf until November 30, 2007. Finally, the name Dakota Miracle was decided on. While Dakota Miracle is white, he is not albino like his mother.\n\nWhite Cloud was born on July 10, 1996 on the Shirek Buffalo Farm in Michigan, North Dakota. She was DNA tested for albino genes and cattle genes before she went to the National Buffalo Museum in Jamestown, North Dakota in May 1997. The results of those tests indicate that she is pure albino and also pure bison (commonly known as buffalo). It is not known for sure whether or not White Cloud's white calf is also a true albino. The white calf was produced when White Cloud mated with her first male calf, a normally brown-colored bison.\n\n"}
{"id": "44798671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44798671", "title": "Mangal Mahadev", "text": "Mangal Mahadev\n\nMangal Mahadev is a 33 m (108 ft) tall sculpture of the Hindu god Shiva standing with his Trishula (trident) at the entrance of Ganga Talao (Grand Bassin), a crater lake situated in the district of Savanne in Mauritius. It is a replica of the Shiva statue in Sursagar lake in Vadodara,Gujarat in India and is the tallest statue in Mauritius.\n\nMangal Mahadev Monument was inaugurated in 2007 and the \"Sthapan\" was done during the Maha Shivratri period of 2008. It is considered the most sacred Hindu place in Mauritius. There are temples dedicated to other Gods including Durga, Hanuman, Lakshmi and Ganesh around the Shiva Temple and Mangal Mahadev statue on the banks of the Grand Bassin. During Shivaratri, many pilgrims in Mauritius walk bare feet from their homes to the lake and pray at the feet of the sculpture.\n\n"}
{"id": "1218170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218170", "title": "Maximón", "text": "Maximón\n\nMaximón (pronounced or ), also called San Simón, is a Mayan deity and folk saint represented in various forms by the Maya people of several towns in the highlands of Western Guatemala. Oral tradition of his creation and purpose in these communities is complex, diverse, and born of the ancient Maya traditions centuries ago.\n\nThe worship of Maximón is believed to have begun at the time of the Spanish conquest of the Maya. The designation of Maximón as a Saint is the result of Religious syncretism.\n\nThe modern character of Maximón is thought by analysts to be a blend of several historical, biblical, and Mayan mythological figures. These include Pedro de Alvarado, Judas Iscariot, Saint Peter, and Mam.\n\nMaximón's appearance varies greatly by location. While he's popularly depicted as a man in a suit and hat, this isn't a constant. In Santiago Atitlán, he wears colorful garlands and scarves, while in Zunil, he wears sunglasses and a bandanna.\n\nMaximón is said to represent both light and dark, and to be a trickster. He is both a womanizer and a protector of couples.\n\nAccording to some legends, Maximón was an elder who reincarnated to protect his people. During the Spanish Conquest, an elder named Ri Laj Mam, upset by the evils of the Spaniards, encouraged his people to start a rebellion. He was eventually executed, but returned to life in the form of a judge named Don Ximon, who fought to give land back to the native people of Guatemala.\n\nAnother legend states that Maximón was hired by traveling fishermen to protect the virtue of their wives. Instead, Maximón disguised himself and slept with all of them.\n\nIn Santiago Atitlán, an alternative tale says that Maximón was never a man, but a wooden figure created by Shamans to defend the village from witches. However, Maximón used trickery to harm the people of the village, so the Shamans twisted his head around and broke his legs to stop him. He then did his job properly and protected the people of the town from evil.\n\nMaximón is venerated in the form of an effigy. Worship varies greatly by location. In Santiago Atitlán, Maximón's effigy resides in a different household every year. His image is normally only taken out of this house during Holy Week, whereafter it will change households, but is on display year-round due the popularity of pilgrimages. The effigy has special attendants that stay by the altar year-round, drinking and smoking alongside it. They deliver offerings from the public to the image. Popular offerings include money, tobacco, and moonshine.\n\nIn the town of San Andrés Itzapa, there is a large temple to Maximón. Here, offerings such as corn, flowers, and candles are burned in public by Shamans for the deity. Pilgrims travel to this temple from all across Latin America.\n\nGuatemalan press has claimed that the worship of Maximón has declined in recent decades, but this is difficult to measure with much certainty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "550020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550020", "title": "Michael Newdow", "text": "Michael Newdow\n\nMichael Arthur Newdow (born June 24, 1953) is an American attorney and emergency medicine physician. He is best known for his efforts to have recitations of the current version of the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools in the United States declared unconstitutional because of its inclusion of the phrase \"under God\". He also filed and lost a lawsuit to stop the invocation prayer at President Bush's second inauguration and in 2009 he filed a lawsuit to prevent references to God and religion from being part of President Obama's inauguration.\n\nNewdow is an atheist and an ordained minister of the Universal Life Church. In 1997, he started an organization called FACTS (First Atheist Church of True Science), which advocates strong separation of church and state in public institutions. He also serves on the Advisory Board of Secular Coalition for America.\n\nNewdow grew up in the Bronx and in Teaneck, New Jersey, where his nominally Jewish family moved in 1960. He graduated from Teaneck High School.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Newdow attended Brown University, where he received a Bachelor of Science degree in biology in 1974. He told \"Brown Alumni Magazine\" that he can't remember ever believing in God, saying, \"I was born an atheist.\"\n\nHe then attended the UCLA School of Medicine, earning his M.D. in 1978. He has worked as an emergency room physician at numerous hospitals, and holds medical licenses in California and several other states.\n\nNewdow attended the University of Michigan Law School, graduating with a J.D. in 1988. He subsequently passed the bar exam in Sacramento County, California (District 3) and was admitted to the State Bar of California on July 29, 2002 where he is still an active member as of August, 2018.\n\nNewdow is best known for the lawsuit which he states was filed on behalf of his daughter against inclusion of the words \"under God\" in public schools' recitals of the United States' Pledge of Allegiance. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit found that the phrase constitutes an endorsement of religion, and therefore violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. However, the decision was later overruled by the Supreme Court of the United States on procedural grounds, citing that Newdow did not have custody of his daughter and therefore did not have the right to bring suit on her behalf, nor did he meet the Court's prudential standing requirements to bring the suit on behalf of himself.\n\nNewdow filed suit again in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California regarding the same issue, but this time on behalf of three unnamed parents and their children. Citing the precedent set by the Supreme Court in the course of Newdow's previous suit, Judge Lawrence K. Karlton ruled that Newdow did not have standing to bring his lawsuit, but the other plaintiffs did have standing. Based on the previous ruling by the Ninth Circuit, the judge ruled that the pledge is unconstitutional when recited in public schools.\n\nOn March 11, 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the words \"under God\" in the Pledge of Allegiance in the case of \"Newdow v. Rio Linda Union School District\". On page 60 of the ruling the court writes: \"We hold that the California Education Code - 52720 and the School District's policy having teachers lead students in the recitation of the Pledge, and having those who do not wish to participate do so with impunity, do not violate the Establishment Clause. Therefore we reverse the decision of the district court holding that the School District's policy is unconstitutional and vacate the permanent injunction prohibiting the recitation of the Pledge by willing students.\" The court also ruled against Newdow in that he had no prudential standing to file a complaint in the first place. Senior Circuit Judge Dorothy W. Nelson joined Judge Carlos T. Bea in the ruling, but Judge Stephen Reinhardt dissented.\n\nIn November 2005, Newdow announced he wants to have \"In God We Trust\" removed from U.S. coins and banknotes. In a November 14, 2005 interview with Fox News's Neil Cavuto, Newdow compared \"In God We Trust\" appearing on United States currency with racial segregation (specifically separate drinking fountains), saying, \"How can you not compare those? What is the difference there? Both of them [whites and blacks] got equal water. They both had access. It was government saying that it's okay to separate out these two people on the basis of race. Here we're saying it's okay to separate two people on the basis of their religious beliefs.\"\n\nIn a 2006 interview on the day that the United States House of Representatives passed the Pledge Protection Act, Newdow told WERS-FM's David Goodman, \"A few hours ago, the House of Representatives of the Congress of the United States of America voted 260 to 167 to completely gut the U.S. Constitution of its separation of powers and violate numerous other clauses because they thought it was important enough to keep 'under God' in the Pledge of Allegiance. I don't think people would've done that for our political heritage or anything else. They did it because they want God in their government because it stands for a religious view that they adhere to, and they want to see that religious view espoused by government, which is exactly what the Establishment Clause forbids.\"\n\nIn June 2006, a federal judge rejected Newdow's Establishment Clause lawsuit on the grounds that the minted words amount to a secular national slogan, and do not dictate anyone's beliefs. Newdow stated that he would appeal the ruling, although it should be noted that \"Aronow v. United States\" was decided on the same grounds in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and the lower court was required to return the same ruling, likewise the Ninth Circuit does not traditionally overrule previous Ninth Circuit rulings.\n\nOn December 4, 2007, Newdow argued before a three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit to remove both \"under God\" from the Pledge of Allegiance (Roe v. Rio Linda Union School District), and \"In God We Trust\" from United States currency. The Ninth Circuit rejected Newdow's challenge. In a decision published March 11, 2010, the court held that its earlier decision in \"Aronow\", which \"held the national motto is of a \"patriotic or ceremonial character,\" has no \"theological or ritualistic impact,\" and does not constitute \"governmental sponsorship of a religious exercise,\" foreclosed Newdow's argument. In an opinion concurring only in the judgment, even the extremely liberal Judge Stephen Reinhardt agreed that \"Aronow\" was controlling precedent.\n\nNewdow also filed a lawsuit in federal court after Franklin Graham gave the invocation at George W. Bush's 2001 inauguration. The lawsuit claimed that inaugural prayer was an unconstitutional endorsement of religion. It also was unsuccessful.\n\nNewdow also represents California Parents for the Equalization of Educational Materials (CAPEEM), a group that has filed a lawsuit against the officials of California Department of Education and the California State Board of Education. The lawsuit challenges the teaching of biblical events as historical facts and was brought by CAPEEM, which was formed by Hindu parents in California. CAPEEM eventually settled the lawsuit for $175,000.\n\nOn December 31, 2008, Newdow and 17 other people, plus 10 groups representing atheists, sued Chief Justice John G. Roberts and others involved in the inauguration of Barack Obama in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, seeking to prevent the Chief Justice from saying \"so help me God.\" The Constitution specifically defines only this single oath of office of 35 words and does not include these four words.\n\nThe Associated Press ran several reports including one picked up by \"The Washington Post\" and many other affiliates that inaccurately stated that the suit was an attempt by atheists to prevent the President from saying \"so help me God.\" The suits specifically states that an injunction is not sought against the president, but rather only against the Chief Justice.\n\nIn addition, in other counts was the demand to end all religious prayer at the inauguration based on the establishment clause of the First Amendment, which he had sued to prevent in the two previous inaugurations unsuccessfully.\n\nJudge Reggie Walton refused to grant Newdow's motion for a preliminary injunction, reasoning that as a district court judge he did not feel he had the authority to issue such an order against the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, and that the inclusion of such words is an exercise of the incoming President's right of free speech, although the president's right to express his private prayer in words of his choosing was specifically not challenged in the lawsuit.\n\nNewdow later reported that he would not challenge the denial of his preliminary injunction motion, but would appeal the case through the appellate court. In \"Newdow v. Roberts\", the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the case, holding that Newdow's claims with respect to the 2009 inauguration were moot, and that he lacked standing to challenge the 2013 and 2017 inaugurations. In May 2011, the United States Supreme Court denied Newdow's request to hear the case. Justice Roberts did not take part in the consideration or decision of Newdow's petition.\n\nIn November 2002, Newdow was given the Freethinker of the Year award by the Freedom From Religion Foundation following the Pledge case. In 2004, he received the special Recognition Freethought Hero Award for his case to remove \"In God We Trust\" from currency. In May 2004, the American Humanist Association gave Newdow its Humanist Pioneer Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39981079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39981079", "title": "Miguel Paternain", "text": "Miguel Paternain\n\nMiguel Paternain, C.Ss.R. (Minas, Uruguay, 16 November 1894 – 21 October 1970) was a Uruguayan Roman Catholic cleric.\n\nOrdained 19 February 1921 in the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, he was appointed Bishop of Melo in 1929; he was ordained bishop by the Apostolic Nuncio to Argentina, Archbishop Filippo Cortesi. In 1931 his diocese is renamed Diocese of Florida-Melo, and since then, Paternain has his see at the Cathedral of Florida. Finally, in 1955 is created the Diocese of Florida, which Paternain still holds.\n\nAfter a very long, fruitful bishopric, in 1960 he resigns as Bishop of Florida; he is appointed titular bishop of Mades in February and, in September, titular archbishop of Achrida.\n\nHe passes away in 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "52041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52041", "title": "Miracle", "text": "Miracle\n\nA miracle is an event not explicable by natural or scientific laws. Such an event may be attributed to a supernatural being (especially a deity), magic, a miracle worker, a saint, or a religious leader.\n\nInformally, the word \"miracle\" is often used to characterise any beneficial event that is statistically unlikely but not contrary to the laws of nature, such as surviving a natural disaster, or simply a \"wonderful\" occurrence, regardless of likelihood, such as a birth. Other such miracles might be: survival of an illness diagnosed as terminal, escaping a life-threatening situation or 'beating the odds'. Some coincidences may be seen as miracles.\n\nA true miracle would, by definition, be a non-natural phenomenon, leading many rational and scientific thinkers to dismiss them as physically impossible (that is, requiring violation of established laws of physics within their domain of validity) or impossible to confirm by their nature (because all possible physical mechanisms can never be ruled out). The former position is expressed for instance by Thomas Jefferson and the latter by David Hume. Theologians typically say that, with divine providence, God regularly works through nature yet, as a creator, is free to work without, above, or against it as well.\n\nThe word \"miracle\" is usually used to describe any beneficial event that is physically impossible or impossible to confirm by nature. Wayne Grudem defines miracle as \"a less common kind of God's activity in which he arouses people's awe and wonder and bears witness to himself.\" Deistic perspective of God's relation to the world defines miracle as a direct intervention of God into the world. \n\nA miracle is a phenomenon not explained by known laws of nature. Criteria for classifying an event as a miracle vary. Often a religious text, such as the Bible or Quran, states that a miracle occurred, and believers may accept this as a fact.\n\nStatistically \"impossible\" events are often called miracles. For instance, when three classmates accidentally meet in a different country decades after having left school, they may consider this as \"miraculous\". However, a colossal number of events happen every moment on earth; thus extremely unlikely coincidences also happen every moment. Events that are considered \"impossible\" are therefore not impossible at all — they are just increasingly rare and dependent on the number of individual events. British mathematician J. E. Littlewood suggested that individuals should statistically expect one-in-a-million events (\"miracles\") to happen to them at the rate of about one per month. By Littlewood's definition, seemingly miraculous events are actually commonplace.\n\nThe Aristotelian view of God has God as pure actuality and considers him as the prime mover doing only what a perfect being can do, think. Jewish neo-Aristotelian philosophers, who are still influential today, include Maimonides, Samuel ben Judah ibn Tibbon, and Gersonides. Directly or indirectly, their views are still prevalent in much of the religious Jewish community. \n\nIn his \"Tractatus Theologico-Politicus\" Spinoza claims that miracles are merely lawlike events whose causes we are ignorant of. We should not treat them as having no cause or of having a cause immediately available. Rather the miracle is for combating the ignorance it entails, like a political project.\n\nAccording to the philosopher David Hume, a miracle is \"a transgression of a law of nature by a particular volition of the Deity, or by the interposition of some invisible agent\". The crux of his argument is this: \"No testimony is sufficient to establish a miracle, unless the testimony be of such a kind, that its falsehood would be more miraculous, than the fact which it endeavours to establish.\" Hume defines a miracles as \"a violation of the laws of nature\", or more fully, \"a transgression of a law of nature by a particular volition of the Deity, or by the interposition of some invisible agent.\" By this definition, a miracle goes against our regular experience of how the universe works. As miracles are single events, the evidence for them is always limited and we experience them rarely. On the basis of experience and evidence, the probability that miracle occurred is always less than the probability that it did not occur. As it is rational to believe what is more probable, we are not supposed to have a good reason to believe that a miracle occurred. \n\nAccording to the Christian theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher \"every event, even the most natural and usual, becomes a miracle as soon as the religious view of it can be the dominant\".\n\nThe philosopher Søren Kierkegaard, following Hume and Johann Georg Hamann, a Humean scholar, agrees with Hume's definition of a miracle as a transgression of a law of nature, but Kierkegaard, writing as his pseudonym \"Johannes Climacus\", regards any historical reports to be less than certain, including historical reports of miracles, as all historical knowledge is always doubtful and open to approximation.\n\nJames Keller states that \"The claim that God has worked a miracle implies that God has singled out certain persons for some benefit which many others do not receive implies that God is unfair.\"\n\nAccording to Buddhists, they do not worship a being who performs miracles, but they believe that the human mind can be trained to reveal powers which can be described as miraculous. As for Christianity, Jesus and the Virgin Mary performed miracles on God's behalf, including healing disabilities such as paralysis, walking on water and transforming water into wine. According to a 2011 poll by the Pew Research Center, more than 90 percent of evangelical Christians believe miracles still take place as well. While Christians see God as sometimes intervening in human activities, Muslims see Allah as a direct cause of all events. “God’s overwhelming closeness makes it easy for Muslims to admit the miraculous in the world.” \n\nThe \"Haedong Kosung-jon\" of Korea (Biographies of High Monks) records that King Beopheung of Silla had desired to promulgate Buddhism as the state religion. However, officials in his court opposed him. In the fourteenth year of his reign, Beopheung's \"Grand Secretary\", Ichadon, devised a strategy to overcome court opposition. Ichadon schemed with the king, convincing him to make a proclamation granting Buddhism official state sanction using the royal seal. Ichadon told the king to deny having made such a proclamation when the opposing officials received it and demanded an explanation. Instead, Ichadon would confess and accept the punishment of execution, for what would quickly be seen as a forgery. Ichadon prophesied to the king that at his execution a wonderful miracle would convince the opposing court faction of Buddhism's power. Ichadon's scheme went as planned, and the opposing officials took the bait. When Ichadon was executed on the 15th day of the 9th month in 527, his prophecy was fulfilled; the earth shook, the sun was darkened, beautiful flowers rained from the sky, his severed head flew to the sacred Geumgang mountains, and milk instead of blood sprayed 100 feet in the air from his beheaded corpse. The omen was accepted by the opposing court officials as a manifestation of heaven's approval, and Buddhism was made the state religion in 527 CE.\n\nThe \"Honchō Hokke Reigenki\" (c. 1040) of Japan contains a collection of Buddhist miracle stories.\n\nMiracles play an important role in the veneration of Buddhist relics in Southern Asia. Thus, Somawathie Stupa in Sri Lanka is an increasingly popular site of pilgrimage and tourist destination thanks to multiple reports about miraculous rays of light, apparitions and modern legends, which often have been fixed in photographs and movies.\n\nThe gospels record three sorts of miracles performed by Jesus: exorcisms, cures, and nature wonders. In the Gospel of John the miracles are referred to as \"signs\" and the emphasis is on God demonstrating his underlying normal activity in remarkable ways. In the New Testament, the greatest miracle is the resurrection of Jesus, the event central to Christian faith.\n\nJesus explains in the New Testament that miracles are performed by faith in God. \"If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, 'move from here to there' and it will move.\" (Gospel of Matthew 17:20). After Jesus returned to heaven, the book of Acts records the disciples of Jesus praying to God to grant that miracles be done in his name, for the purpose of convincing onlookers that he is alive. (Acts 4:29–31).\n\nOther passages mention false prophets who will be able to perform miracles to deceive \"if possible, even the elect of Christ\" (Matthew 24:24). 2 Thessalonians 2:9 says, \"And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of His mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of His coming: Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not the love of the Truth, that they might be saved.\" Revelation 13:13,14 says, \"And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men, and deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the wound by a sword, and did live.\" Revelation 16:14 says, \"For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.\" Revelation 19:20 says, \"And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image. These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.\" These passages indicate that signs, wonders, and miracles are not necessarily committed by God. These miracles not committed by God are labeled as false(pseudo) miracles though which could mean that they are deceptive in nature and are not the same as the true miracles committed by God.\n\nIn early Christianity miracles were the most often attested motivations for conversions of pagans; pagan Romans took the existence of miracles for granted; Christian texts reporting them offered miracles as divine proof of the Christian God's unique claim to authority, relegating all other gods to the lower status of \"daimones\": \"of all worships, the Christian best and most particularly advertised its miracles by driving out of spirits and laying on of hands\". The Gospel of John is structured around miraculous \"signs\": The success of the Apostles according to the church historian Eusebius of Caesarea lay in their miracles: \"though laymen in their language\", he asserted, \"they drew courage from divine, miraculous powers\". The conversion of Constantine by a miraculous sign in heaven is a prominent fourth-century example.\nSince the Age of Enlightenment, miracles have often needed to be rationalized: C.S. Lewis, Norman Geisler, William Lane Craig, and other 20th-century Christians have argued that miracles are reasonable and plausible. For example, Lewis said that a miracle is something that comes totally out of the blue. If for thousands of years a woman can become pregnant only by sexual intercourse with a man, then if she were to become pregnant without a man, it would be a miracle.\n\nThere have been numerous claims of miracles by people of most Christian denominations, including but not limited to faith healings and casting out demons. Miracle reports are especially prevalent in Roman Catholicism and Pentecostal or Charismatic churches.\n\nThe Catholic Church believes miracles are works of God, either directly, or through the prayers and intercessions of a specific saint or saints. There is usually a specific purpose connected to a miracle, e.g. the conversion of a person or persons to the Catholic faith or the construction of a church desired by God. The Church says that it tries to be very cautious to approve the validity of putative miracles. The Catholic Church says that it maintains particularly stringent requirements in validating the miracle's authenticity. The process is overseen by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints.\n\nThe Catholic Church has listed several events as miracles, some of them occurring in modern times. Before a person can be accepted as a saint, they must be confirmed as having performed two miracles posthumously. In the procedure of beatification of Pope John Paul II, who died in 2005, the Vatican announced on 14 January 2011 that Pope Benedict XVI had confirmed that the recovery of Sister Marie Simon-Pierre from Parkinson's disease was a miracle.\n\nAmong the more notable miracles approved by the Church are several Eucharistic miracles wherein the sacramental bread and wine are transformed into Christ's flesh and blood, such as the Miracle of Lanciano and cures in Lourdes.\n\nAccording to 17th century documents, a young Spanish man's leg was miraculously restored to him in 1640 after having been amputated two and a half years earlier.\n\nAnother miracle approved by the Church is the Miracle of the Sun, which is said to have occurred near Fátima, Portugal on October 13, 1917. According to legend, between 70,000 and 100,000 people, who were gathered at a cove near Fátima, witnessed the sun dim, change colors, spin, dance about in the sky, and appear to plummet to earth, radiating great heat in the process. After the ten-minute event, the ground and the people's clothing, which had been drenched by a previous rainstorm, were both dry.\n\nVelankanni (Mary) can be traced to the mid-16th century and is attributed to three miracles: the apparition of Mary and the Christ Child to a slumbering shepherd boy, the curing of a lame buttermilk vendor, and the rescue of Portuguese sailors from a violent sea storm.\n\nIn addition to these, the Catholic Church attributes miraculous causes to many otherwise inexplicable phenomena on a case-by-case basis. Only after all other possible explanations have been asserted to be inadequate will the Church assume \"divine intervention\" and declare the miracle worthy of veneration by their followers. The Church does not, however, enjoin belief in any extra-Scriptural miracle as an article of faith or as necessary for salvation.\n\nSt. Thomas Aquinas, a prominent Doctor of the Church, divided miracles into three types in his \"Summa contra Gentiles\":These works that are done by God outside the usual order assigned to things are wont to be called miracles: because we are astonished (\"admiramur\") at a thing when we see an effect without knowing the cause. And since at times one and the same cause is known to some and unknown to others, it happens that of several who see an effect, some are astonished and some not: thus an astronomer is not astonished when he sees an eclipse of the sun, for he knows the cause; whereas one who is ignorant of this science must needs wonder, since he knows not the cause. Wherefore it is wonderful to the latter but not to the former. Accordingly a thing is wonderful simply, when its cause is hidden simply: and this is what we mean by a miracle: something, to wit, that is wonderful in itself and not only in respect of this person or that. Now God is the cause which is hidden to every man simply: for we have proved above that in this state of life no man can comprehend Him by his intellect. Therefore properly speaking miracles are works done by God outside the order usually observed in things.<br><br>\n\nOf these miracles there are various degrees and orders. The highest degree in miracles comprises those works wherein something is done by God, that nature can never do: for instance, that two bodies occupy the same place, that the sun recede or stand still, that the sea be divided and make way to passers by. Among these there is a certain order: for the greater the work done by God, and the further it is removed from the capability of nature, the greater the miracle: thus it is a greater miracle that the sun recede, than that the waters be divided.<br><br>\n\nThe second degree in miracles belongs to those whereby God does something that nature can do, but not in the same order: thus it is a work of nature that an animal live, see and walk: but that an animal live after being dead, see after being blind, walk after being lame, this nature cannot do, but God does these things sometimes by a miracle. Among these miracles also, there are degrees, according as the thing done is further removed from the faculty of nature.<br><br>\n\nThe third degree of miracles is when God does what is wont to be done by the operation of nature, but without the operation of the natural principles: for instance when by the power of God a man is cured of a fever that nature is able to cure; or when it rains without the operation of the principles of nature.\n\nIn Hinduism, miracles are focused on episodes of liberation of the spirit. A key example is the revelation of Krishna to Arjuna, wherein Krishna persuades Arjuna to rejoin the battle against his cousins by briefly and miraculously giving Arjuna the power to see the true scope of the Universe, and its sustainment within Krishna, which requires divine vision. This is a typical situation in Hindu mythology wherein \"wondrous acts are performed for the purpose of bringing spiritual liberation to those who witness or read about them.\"\n\nHindu sages have criticized both expectation and reliance on miracles as cheats, situations where people have sought to earn a benefit without doing the work necessary to merit it. Miracles continue to be occasionally reported in the practice of Hinduism, with an example of a miracle modernly reported in Hinduism being the Hindu milk miracle of September 1995, with additional occurrences in 2006 and 2010, wherein statues of certain Hindu deities were seen to drink milk offered to them.The scientific explanation for the incident, attested by Indian academics, was that the material was wicked from the offering bowls by capillary action.\n\n\"Miracle\" in the Quran can be defined as a supernatural intervention in the life of human beings. According to this definition, miracles are present \"in a threefold sense: in sacred history, in connection with Muhammad himself and in relation to revelation\". The Quran does not use the technical Arabic word for miracle (\"Muʿd̲j̲iza\") literally meaning \"that by means of which [the Prophet] confounds, overwhelms, his opponents\". It rather uses the term 'Ayah' (literally meaning sign). The term \"Ayah\" is used in the Qur'an in the above-mentioned threefold sense: it refers to the \"verses\" of the Qur'an (believed to be the divine speech in human language; presented by Muhammad as his chief Miracle); as well as to miracles of it and the signs (particularly those of creation).\n\nTo defend the possibility of miracles and God's omnipotence against the encroachment of the independent secondary causes, some medieval Muslim theologians such as Al-Ghazali rejected the idea of cause and effect in essence, but accepted it as something that facilitates humankind's investigation and comprehension of natural processes. They argued that the nature was composed of uniform atoms that were \"re-created\" at every instant by God. Thus if the soil was to fall, God would have to create and re-create the accident of heaviness for as long as the soil was to fall. For Muslim theologians, the laws of nature were only the customary sequence of apparent causes: customs of God.\n\nSufi biographical literature records claims of miraculous accounts of men and women. The miraculous prowess of the Sufi holy men includes \"firasa\" (clairvoyance), the ability to disappear from sight, to become completely invisible and practice \"buruz\" (exteriorization). The holy men reportedly tame wild beasts and traverse long distances in a very short time span. They could also produce food and rain in seasons of drought, heal the sick and help barren women conceive.\n\nDescriptions of miracles (Hebrew \"Ness, נס\") appear in the Tanakh. Examples include prophets, such as Elijah who performed miracles like the raising of a widow's dead son (1 Kings 17:17–24) and Elisha whose miracles include multiplying the poor widow's jar of oil (2 Kings 4:1–7) and restoring to life the son of the woman of Shunem (2 Kings 4:18–37). The Torah describes many miracles related to Moses during his time as a prophet and the Exodus of the Israelites. Parting the Red Sea, and facilitating the Plagues of Egypt are among the most famous.\n\nDuring the first century BCE, a variety of religious movements and splinter groups developed amongst the Jews in Judea. A number of individuals claimed to be miracle workers in the tradition of Moses, Elijah, and Elisha, the Jewish prophets. The Talmud provides some examples of such Jewish miracle workers, one of whom is Honi HaM'agel, who was famous for his ability to successfully pray for rain.\n\nMost Chasidic communities are rife with tales of miracles that follow a \"yechidut\", a spiritual audience with a \"tzadik\": barren women become pregnant, cancer tumors shrink, wayward children become pious. Many Hasidim claim that miracles can take place in merit of partaking of the \"shirayim\" (the leftovers from the rebbe's meal), such as miraculous healing or blessings of wealth or piety.\n\nThomas Paine, one of the Founding Fathers of the American Revolution, wrote “All the tales of miracles, with which the Old and New Testament are filled, are fit only for impostors to preach and fools to believe”.\n\nThomas Jefferson, principal author of the Declaration of Independence of the United States, edited a version of the Bible in which he removed sections of the New Testament containing supernatural aspects as well as perceived misinterpretations he believed had been added by the Four Evangelists. Jefferson wrote, \"The establishment of the innocent and genuine character of this benevolent moralist, and the rescuing it from the imputation of imposture, which has resulted from artificial systems, [footnote: e.g. The immaculate conception of Jesus, his deification, the creation of the world by him, his miraculous powers, his resurrection and visible ascension, his corporeal presence in the Eucharist, the Trinity; original sin, atonement, regeneration, election, orders of Hierarchy, etc. —T.J.] invented by ultra-Christian sects, unauthorized by a single word ever uttered by him, is a most desirable object, and one to which Priestley has successfully devoted his labors and learning.\"\n\nJohn Adams, second President of the United States, wrote, \"The question before the human race is, whether the God of nature shall govern the world by his own laws, or whether priests and kings shall rule it by fictitious miracles?\"\n\nAmerican Revolutionary War patriot and hero Ethan Allen wrote \"In those parts of the world where learning and science have prevailed, miracles have ceased; but in those parts of it as are barbarous and ignorant, miracles are still in vogue\".\n\nRobert Ingersoll wrote, \"Not 20 people were convinced by the reported miracles of Christ, and yet people of the nineteenth century were coolly asked to be convinced on hearsay by miracles which those who are supposed to have seen them refused to credit.\"\n\nElbert Hubbard, American writer, publisher, artist, and philosopher, wrote \"A miracle is an event described by those to whom it was told by people who did not see it.\"\n\nBiologist Richard Dawkins has criticised the belief in miracles as a subversion of Occam's razor.\n\nMathematician Charles Hermite, in a discourse upon the world of mathematical truths and the physical world, stated that \"The synthesis of the two is revealed partially in the marvellous correspondence between abstract mathematics on the one hand and all the branches of physics on the other\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38181025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38181025", "title": "Nefarious: Merchant of Souls", "text": "Nefarious: Merchant of Souls\n\nNefarious: Merchant of Souls is a 2011 American documentary film about modern human trafficking, specifically sexual slavery. Presented from a Christian worldview, \"Nefarious\" covers human trafficking in the United States, Western and Eastern Europe, and Southeast Asia, alternating interviews with re-enactments. Victims of trafficking talk about having been the objects of physical abuse and attempted murder. Several former prostitutes talk about their conversion to Christianity, escape from sexual oppression, and subsequent education or marriage. The film ends with the assertion that only Jesus can completely heal people from the horrors of sexual slavery.\n\n\"Nefarious\" was written, directed, produced and narrated by Benjamin Nolot, founder and president of Exodus Cry, the film's distributor. Nolot, who travelled to 19 countries to collect the film's content, said that the purpose of the film is \"to draw people's attention to the issue, but also to inspire them in terms of what they can be doing … to take a stand against this injustice.\" The film was officially released on July 27, 2011, with individual grassroots screenings also taking place. Laila Mickelwait, Exodus Cry's director of awareness and prevention, screened the film in several countries in an attempt to persuade governments to make laws similar to Sweden's \"Sex Purchase Act\", which criminalizes the purchasing rather than the selling of sex. The film was released on home video on May 1, 2012.\n\nInterviewees in the film include Canadian journalist Victor Malarek, Jerusalem Institute of Justice founder Calev Myers, Christian therapist Dan Allender, clinical psychologist Melissa Farley, Piet Keesman, Baptist missionary Lauran Bethell, Agape International Missions founder Don Brewster, anti-trafficking activist Helen Sworn, former prostitute Annie Lobert, and Swedish detective superintendent Kajsa Wahlberg. Ted Baehr of \"Movieguide\", a Christian magazine, called the film \"a powerful, compelling and transformational documentary about human trafficking and sex slavery\" and commented that it covered the inherently sexual subject matter candidly without displaying nudity. Dan Preston of \"Godculture Magazine\" praised Nolot's writing and directing. \"Nefarious\" has won film awards, including the Honolulu Film Award for best screenplay, the Urban Mediamakers Film Festival best documentary feature award, and the Indie Fest feature documentary award of excellence.\n\n\"Nefarious: Merchant of Souls\" documents modern human trafficking, specifically sexual slavery. While there are men and boys who are trafficked around the world, the United States Department of State (DoS) estimates that about 80% of human trafficking victims are female, and the film focuses on them. Information is presented from a Christian worldview—despite the subject matter, there is no profanity or nudity in the film, although there are scenes showing alcohol consumption and women wearing skimpy clothing.\n\n\"Nefarious\" explores how sex trafficking differs from country to country, and suggests that all the victims are both psychologically and emotionally enslaved. One of the initial assertions in the film is that slavery has not been abolished but is increasing, and that half of this slavery is sexual in nature. \"Nefarious\" identifies political corruption and difficult socioeconomic situations as elements that prevent sex slaves from escaping exploitation, and suggests that most victims do not survive for more than seven years after initially being trafficked. While the violent acquisition of sex slaves depicted in the first sequence of the film does occur in reality, Jimmy Stewart of \"Charisma\" wrote that most girls who are sexually trafficked in Europe are recruited through a fraudulent offer of employment and an improved lifestyle overseas, neither of which ultimately materializes in the new country.\n\n\"Nefarious\" asserts that there is a link between the international sex industry and legal prostitution in the Western world, and that those who create the demand for forced prostitution around the world are of a wide variety of ages and are often considered respectable. The film contrasts the secretiveness and brutality of the sex industry in Eastern Europe with the openness of public prostitution in the Netherlands. \"Nefarious\" suggests that sex trafficking in Southeast Asia is fuelled largely by the complicity of the victims' parents, with many in Cambodia grooming and then knowingly selling their daughters into prostitution to pay for luxury goods. The film asserts that 10% of the population of Moldova has been sexually trafficked. \"Nefarious\" contrasts Las Vegas prostitutes with victims of sex trafficking in Europe, depicting the former as drawn into the sex industry by dreams of a glamorous lifestyle, and the latter as made vulnerable by child abandonment and orphanages.\n\nThe film presents human trafficking statistics and assertions from a variety of sources, prominently departments of the United States government and the United Nations. These include that human trafficking is growing faster than any other criminal industry, that the average age of those forced into prostitution in the U.S. is 13, that the commercial sexual exploitation of children victimizes almost two million children globally, that 80% of trafficked women and 50% of trafficked children are sexually exploited, that 161 UN member states engage in human trafficking, and that modern slavery has an annual revenue of —according to the film, higher than the annual revenues of Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Football League and the National Hockey League combined. The film indicates that \"trafficking is an exploitation of vulnerability\" and expresses the need to \"take away the stigma that [prostitutes] choose to be there.\" Kevin Bales of Free the Slaves is quoted as saying that there are 27 million slaves in the world. The film ends with the assertion that only Jesus can free people from sexual slavery.\n\n\"Nefarious\" covers human trafficking in the United States, Western and Eastern Europe, and Southeast Asia. Interviews are interspersed with re-enactments. The film opens with a re-enactment of a girl being kidnapped by organized criminals. She is confined with other girls in a dark room, lit by a flickering lightbulb. Men order the girls to remove their clothes, and then examine them and shout commands and threats at them, causing them to cry from fear. One girl is dragged into another room. A victim of ordeals such as these, speaking in voiceover, explains that, in this situation, girls are often taken into a separate room to have their sexual performance tested. Identifying these events as taking place near Belgrade, Serbia, the film then tracks the fictional girls through Croatia to Amsterdam's red-light district De Wallen, and to sex markets in Berlin and Las Vegas. The film states that this slavery goes unnoticed in cities where prostitution is legal. Slaves are depicted in confinement, at their places of work, and as they are sold. Many of the girls are orphans, and all are either kidnapped or tricked into forced prostitution. Traffickers in the film use hard drugs, brainwashing and sexual and physical abuse to keep the girls under control.\n\nOne of the scenes in Southeast Asia takes place near a karaoke club, and depicts groups of girls, apparently ranging in age from early to late teens, offering sexual services to customers. Benjamin Nolot interviews a police officer, who says that the bar's owner recently bought eight other similar clubs and controls around 2,000 girls. Another Southeast Asian scene shows Nolot and his crew chasing an American man out of a town where he was trying to purchase sex with a child.\n\nThe interviewees in \"Nefarious\" include former traffickers, international humanitarian workers, social workers, psychologists, human rights experts, and former victims of human trafficking. Interviewees include Canadian journalist Victor Malarek, Jerusalem Institute of Justice founder Calev Myers, Christian therapist Dan Allender, clinical psychologist Melissa Farley, Amsterdam police official Piet Keesman, Baptist missionary Lauran Bethell, Agape International Missions founder Don Brewster, anti-trafficking activist Helen Sworn, former prostitute Annie Lobert, and Swedish Detective Superintendent Kajsa Wahlberg.\n\nThe film includes an interview with a man referring to himself as \"Vlad\", who formerly trafficked in humans and drugs in Europe for eleven years. Vlad explains that traffickers control their victims by drugging them, physically abusing them, or threatening to abuse them. He claims that traffickers consider themselves most successful when the exploited girls start responding immediately to shouted, one-word commands. Vlad describes beating girls who tried to run away and says that he felt little remorse after such incidents; the large sums of money involved made him indifferent to the girls' fate. Vlad surmises that the reason global sex trafficking has expanded is that girls can be sold for sex repeatedly, while drugs can only be sold once. When asked how sex trafficking can function on an international scale, Vlad states that the two major contributory factors are organized crime and political corruption.\n\nAnother interview features an Amsterdam pimp, \"Slim\", who owns a business allowing passers-by to view scantily clad girls in a display window; they can have sex with them on a mattress in a back room. He initially says that the display window women are not in any danger while with a client in the back room, but later clarifies that the girls should \"keep a hand close to the panic button\" located on the wall. When asked by Nolot if these activities are financed by organized crime, Slim hesitates, then says no.\n\nA female human trafficking victim is interviewed with her face hidden. She describes how she and other human trafficking victims in Eastern Europe were held in buildings with security cameras, where they were forced to walk naked down a runway before a group of men who watched under the guise of attending a fashion show. She then describes being auctioned off to the audience members, who she says examined her off the runway as one might examine cattle.\n\nA 55-year-old woman from England tells the story of how she was first prostituted in Boscombe, near Bournemouth in Dorset, after being raped as a child in the council houses where she grew up. She describes running away, being raped again at the age of 13 and then being locked in a wardrobe in Manchester, and says that she found this situation normal at the time as it was the only life she knew. She eventually became addicted to heroin. She then describes a vision of Jesus that she says gave her the strength to escape sexual trafficking at the age of 40 and heroin six years later. Other victims of trafficking speak about having been the objects of physical abuse and attempted murder. Nevada prostitutes describe having gone into prostitution in Las Vegas after watching the film \"Pretty Woman\". Several former prostitutes talk about their conversion to Christianity, escape from sexual oppression, and subsequent education or marriage. Some of them cry while telling their stories. Lobert calls prostitution \"the greatest acting job\", explaining that prostitutes have to constantly feign enjoyment while actually feeling none. Before \"Nefarious\" was completed, one of the former prostitutes interviewed for the film returned to prostitution, a fact acknowledged in the film.\n\nIn her interview, Swedish Detective Superintendent Kajsa Wahlberg describes purchasing sex from a prostitute as paying to masturbate into someone. The leader of an organization working to rescue girls from prostitution in Cambodia says that it is not the poorest parents who sell their children into sexual slavery but rather the parents who are looking to buy luxury goods. He therefore argues that sex trafficking is a spiritual and moral issue that cannot be solved by education or money. In another interview, a man purchasing sex in Thailand says that he believes the girls are happy to be working as prostitutes. Another interview features an American man who had been a sex tourist in Asia.\n\n\"Nefarious\" was written, directed, produced, and narrated by Benjamin Nolot, founder and president of Exodus Cry. Exodus Cry, which distributed the film, is headquartered in Grandview, Missouri and is an organization that opposes human trafficking by raising awareness, by reintegrating victims back into society, and by prayer. Nolot founded Exodus Cry in 2007 after a woman he did not know gave him , saying that God told her to do so in order that Nolot might found an anti-human-trafficking organization. This was founded at a prayer meeting later that year where attendees prayed for human trafficking victims. The organization claims that this prayer meeting occurred on the day before the announcement of the 2007 international child pornography investigation, which involved approximately 2,400 human-trafficking-related arrests in 77 countries.\n\nFilming of \"Nefarious\" was started in 2007, marking Nolot's film debut. The initial plan was to create a short film, but the project was expanded when Exodus Cry realized the scope of the issue they were documenting. Nolot, a leader in Mike Bickle's International House of Prayer, travelled to 19 countries to collect material for the film. These filming locations included countries in the Middle East, Europe, North America, and Asia. Nolot attested to having found it difficult to produce the film due to the subject matter; he stated that \"there is not a day that goes by that I am not mindful of the horrific tragedies we uncovered.\" He further said that he did not make the film for money or for fame but did so in order to rouse people to action against human trafficking, an issue that he feels to be of great importance. Nolot said that the purpose of the film is \"to draw people's attention to the issue, but also to inspire them in terms of what they can be doing … to take a stand against this injustice.\" Steve Willis and Matthew Dickey were the film's cinematographers. Willis, founder of Underpin Photography, also served as photographer while Dickey filled the roles of associate producer and editor, also directing the re-enactment scenes. Actors in these re-enactment scenes included Bill Oberst Jr., Christian Simpson (as Christian J. Simpson), Allison Weissman, Sarah Agor, and Jess Allen. John Samuel Hanson composed the film score for \"Nefarious\" after having worked on such other projects as \"16 Blocks\", \"Constantine\", \"The Book of Eli\", and \"Lost\". As of January 2012, Nolot was producing two sequels to \"Nefarious\".\n\nThe film was officially released on July 27, 2011, with individual grassroots screenings also taking place. Nolot appeared at a screening in Appleton, Wisconsin, and afterwards led a question and answer session with a local police officer. During this time, Nolot promoted the Red Light Campaign, wherein drivers waiting at red lights pray for sex trafficking to end. Texas State representative Todd Ames Hunter attended a screening at the Summit Church in Corpus Christi, saying that human trafficking \"is a critical issue to the state of Texas that needs education and attention.\" The Justice Alliance, a Christian nonprofit organization that raises awareness about human trafficking, hosted a screening in the auditorium of El Dorado Middle School in Kansas. Florida Abolitionist, a non-governmental organization that also opposes human trafficking, sponsored a screening at the Full Sail University in Orlando, Florida. Most of the attendees were Christians. The Australian Christian Lobby (ACL) hosted two screenings of the film in 2012, one of which took place before the Parliament of Tasmania. The Government of Tasmania was considering reforms to the Tasmanian sex industry at the time and the ACL was disappointed because the only politicians who showed up to the screening were four members of the Liberal Party. The ACL planned screenings in the rest of the states of Australia as well, hoping to convince legislators that the criminalization of the purchase of sex is the only effective way of combatting sexual slavery. Another screening was held at United Nations headquarters in New York City in March 2012 during that year's session of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women.\n\n\"Nefarious\" was released on home video on May 1, 2012. On June 26, the film made its British premiere, following which an interactive panel was held in which the audience was encouraged to fight human trafficking by donating funds, raising awareness, and praying. In September, the film was screened at The Rome International Film Festival in Rome, Georgia, the Midwest Christian-Inspirational Indie Film Festival in Chicago, Illinois, and the Atlanta International Documentary Film Festival in Atlanta, Georgia. \"Nefarious\" was screened at Oaxaca FilmFest two months later. The Rose Marine Theater in Fort Worth, Texas hosted a screening in celebration of Human Rights Day in December. Other screenings have taken place in South Korea, Hong Kong, Bermuda, and Canada. The Hong Kong premiere was attended by such people as Clement Cheng, Lori Chow, Cathy Leung, Pamela Peck, Nancy Sit, and Grace Wong, and the subsequent three weeks of screenings were all sold out. In May 2013, Katarina MacLeod, a former sex slave, spoke at a screening in Peterborough, Ontario hosted by Canadian Baptist Women of Ontario and Quebec. Laila Mickelwait, Exodus Cry's Director of Awareness and Prevention, screened the film in several countries in an attempt to persuade governments to make laws similar to Sweden's \"Sex Purchase Act\", which criminalizes the purchasing rather than the selling of sex. Because Sweden now has the lowest human trafficking rate in the European Union, Mickelwait argued that such laws decrease the demand for commercial sex and effectively combat related organized crime. At some screenings, Exodus Cry solicited funds for the halfway houses it runs in Moldova called LightHouses, where victims of sex trafficking are given help.\n\nBoth Jim Uttley of \"Indian Life Newspaper\" and Pastor Jamie Bagley of \"The News of Cumberland County\" called \"Nefarious\" \"hard-hitting\". Uttley further asserted that \"Nefarious\" \"is not an easy film to watch because it deals with a subject that most of us would rather ignore\", and he went on to highly recommend the film. Jimmy Stewart of \"Charisma\" reported that the film gives a human face to trafficking statistics and instils a desire in the viewer to put an end to such criminal activity. Ted Baehr of \"Movieguide\", a Christian magazine, called the film \"a powerful, compelling and transformational documentary about human trafficking and sex slavery\" and wrote that it was amazing that the film covered an inherently sexual topic both honestly and without nudity. Baehr praised the cinematography, editing, and filmmaking, but criticized some portions of the film as being repetitive and uncompelling. The \"Movieguide\" review ends by comparing the film's opposition to modern slavery to the death of Saint Telemachus, which put an end to gladiatorial games in ancient Rome. Erica Yunghans of \"Star News Daily\" called the film \"controversial\".\n\nIn \"News Weekly\", Babette Francis called \"Nefarious\" a \"ground-breaking documentary\". Tiffany Owens of \"World\", a Christian magazine, praised the film, describing its storytelling as compelling and vivid. Jamie Rake of \"The Phantom Tollbooth\" called the film \"an engrossing, sometimes appropriately gross, exposé [that] sounds a clarion cry against … modern slavery\". Rake praises the re-enactments for being appropriately ominous, and for demonstrating the dehumanization and abuse that characterize sexual trafficking. He suggests that the film is a modern version of \"This Is the Life\", a Christian television series that dealt with social issues, and that, if Nolot applied for a Motion Picture Association of America film rating, it would be given a PG-13 rating. Dan Preston of \"Godculture Magazine\" called the film \"a hands-on, grimy, honest, explorative piece of journalism\". Preston praised Nolot's writing and directing. Jennifer Cheng of the \"South China Morning Post\" called the film \"unnerving\" and wrote that it \"offers a glimpse into how organized crime, abuse, greed, lust and humiliation intertwine to make human trafficking possible.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "95916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95916", "title": "Nei Tituaabine", "text": "Nei Tituaabine\n\nNei Tituaabine, is a red-naired maiden in Micronesian mythology, specifically in Kiribati.\n\nShe fell in love with the giant haired-skinned chief, Auriaria, but they had no children. After her death, three trees grew from her grave: a coconut from her head, a pandanus from her heels and an almond from her navel. She became a tree goddess.\n"}
{"id": "27475856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27475856", "title": "Neterkheperre Meryptah called Pipi II", "text": "Neterkheperre Meryptah called Pipi II\n\nNeterkheperre Meryptah called Pipi II was a High Priest of Ptah during the 21st Dynasty. He was High priest during the reigns of Psusennes I, Amenemope, Osochor and Siamun.\n\nPipi II is known from a genealogy known as Berlin 23673, where he is said to be a Prophet (hm nTr) during the time of Pharaoh Psusennes I. He is also mentioned in a genealogy from the Louvre, where he is given the title of High Priest of Ptah.\n\nPipi II is attested under Siamun on a temple building at Memphis. The gateway of this temple features a lintel mentioning the high priest \"Neterkheperre Meryptah who is called Piupiu\". The name \"Neterkheperre Meryptah\" adopted by Pipi II is based on the prenomen of Pharaoh Siamun.\n\n"}
{"id": "17075894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17075894", "title": "Omar (Vaishya)", "text": "Omar (Vaishya)\n\nThe Omar is an Indian Bania caste, found among mainly in Central Uttar Pradesh (Kanpur region), Magadh, Awadh, Vidarbha region and Purvanchal. They claim to have originated from Ayodhia, and then spread to other parts of Awadh, eventually settling in different parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra and Jharkhand. Some theories and ancient texts suggest that the name 'Omar' has been derived from Om which is a sacred/mystical syllable in the Dharmic or Indian religions, i.e. Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism.\n\nThe Omar is known as Umar in different parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. They use \"Omar\" \"Umar\" and \"Gupta\" as surname. A majority lives in Kanpur, Badshahpur, Shahjahanpur, Pratapgarh in suriyawan; and in Deoghar district of Jharkhand; Jamui, Sahibganj, Siwtan, Saran, and Gopalganj districts of Bihar. The standard of living varies from lower-middle class to higher upper class.\n\nA small and vibrant Omar Vaishya also well established themselves as well reputed community at Sakoli region in Vidharbha of Eastern part of Maharashtra. \n\nThe Omar have three sub-divisions, the Til Omar, Derh Omar and Dusra. Historically, the Omar were mainly shopkeepers, but many have now taken to other occupation. Their customs are similar to the Kasaundhan, another Bania community. A number of people from this caste has businesses as \"decorators for functions/festivals\" in Deoghar, and many of them work for the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "47845509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47845509", "title": "Pramansagar", "text": "Pramansagar\n\nMuni Pramansagar is a \"Digambar monk\" who took initiative in \"Dharmbachao Andolan\" to oppose the High Court's decision to ban \"Sallekhana\". He called for a massive gathering of 1 crore community members to celebrate the Supreme Court's order staying the ban on \"Sallekhana\" by chanting 1 crore hymns. Gunayatan is one of his other religious initiatives. His pravachans and \"Shanka Samadhan\" programme are aired on Jinvani channel as \"Santvani ,Paras Channel respectively\"\n\nPramansagar was born on 27 June 1967 in Hazaribagh, Jharkhand as Naveen Kumar Jain. His parents Surendra Kumar Jain and Sohni Devi Jain live near Bengali Durga Mandap. He got \"Vairagya\" on 4 March 1984 and was initiated as a \"Digambara monk\" by \"Acharya\" Vidyasagar on 31 March 1988 in Sonagiri. On the issue of \"Sallekhana\" controversy, he said \n\n\"Muni\" Pramansagar is a \"Digambar\" monk who took initiative in \"Dharmbachao Andolan\" to oppose the High Court's decision to ban \"Sallekhana\". He called for a massive gathering of 1 crore community members to celebrate the Supreme Court's order staying the ban on \"Sallekhana\" by chanting 1 crore hymns. Gunayatan is one of his other religious initiatives. His \"pravachans\" and \"Shanka Samadhan\" programme are aired on Jinvani & Parastv channel.\n\nHe was present in the Lord Bahubali’s statue anointment with 1,008 \"kalashas\". He visited Kuchaman, Rajasthan in June 2016.\n\nHis 2016 Chaturmas was in Vaishali Nagar, Ajmer, Rajasthan.\n\n\"Muni Pramansagar\" has authored several books on Jainism and Jain philosophy :-\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "25887525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887525", "title": "Psilocybe banderillensis", "text": "Psilocybe banderillensis\n\nPsilocybe banderillensis is a species of psilocybin mushroom in the family Hymenogastraceae known from the states of Veracruz and Oaxaca in Mexico. It is in the \"Psilocybe fagicola\" complex with \"Psilocybe fagicola\", \"Psilocybe oaxacana\", \"Psilocybe columbiana\", \"Psilocybe herrerae\", \"Psilocybe keralensis\", \"Psilocybe neoxalapensis\", and \"Psilocybe teofiloi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5370414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5370414", "title": "Rue des Rosiers", "text": "Rue des Rosiers\n\nThe Rue des Rosiers, which means \"street of the rosebushes,\" is a street in the 4th arrondissement of Paris, France. It begins at Rue Malher and proceeds northwest across Rue Pavée, Rue Ferdinand Duval, Rue des Écouffes, and Rue des Hospitalières Saint-Gervais before it ends at Rue Vieille du Temple.\n\nRue des Rosiers lies at the center of the Jewish quarter unofficially called \"the Pletzl\" (Yiddish for \"little place\"). Officially, this street is in the Marais district, which extends along the Rue de Rivoli a short distance away, and some refer to the area as \"Saint Paul\" because of the proximity of the .\n\nDuring the last ten years, the Rue des Rosiers has become notable for fashion. The quaint boutiques of days-gone-by have given way to gleaming minimalist showrooms for some of Europe’s trendiest labels. Not following the Western holiday schedules, Rue des Rosiers shops have become the meeting point for Parisians who want to eat out and shop on Sunday, Christmas, or during any off days.\n\nThe Rue des Rosiers is: \n"}
{"id": "3862937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3862937", "title": "Sadequain", "text": "Sadequain\n\nSyed Sadequain Ahmed Naqvi (), \"Tamgha-e-Imtiaz, Pride of Performance, Sitara-e-Imtiaz,\" also often referred to as Sadequain Naqqash, was a Pakistani artist, best known for his skills as a calligrapher and a painter. He is considered as one of the finest painters and calligraphers Pakistan has ever produced. He was also a poet, writing hundreds of rubāʿiyāt in the style of Omar Khayyam and Sarmad Kashani.\n\nSadequain was born on June 30, 1923 in Amroha, into a family of calligraphers. In late 1940s he joined the Progressive Writers and Artists Movement. His true talent was discovered by Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy who brought Sadequain into the limelight. He also spent some time in Paris augmenting his skills. Sadequain received much praise for his calligraphic style, which is widely considered iconic by many critics of South Asian art.\n\nSadequain was part of a broader Islamic art movement that emerged independently across North Africa and parts of Asia in the 1950s and known as the \"hurufiyah art movement\". Hurufiyah refers to the attempt by artists to combine traditional art forms, notably calligraphy as a graphic element within a contemporary artwork. Hurufiyah artists rejected Western art concepts, and instead searched for a new visual languages that reflected their own culture and heritage. These artists successfully transformed calligraphy into a modern aesthetic, which was both contemporary and indigenous. Prior to Sadeqain's work, only a few painters had experimented with the medium in Pakistan. Sadequain is a pioneer of the style, bringing calligraphy into a mainstream art form, and influencing subsequent generations of Pakistani artists.\n\nSalahi carried the script with a flourish in all directions, giving it the 'power of space, vigor and volume'.\n\nSadequain painted classical literature from the poetic verses of Ghalib, Iqbal and Faiz. He belonged to the school of thought which enriched realism with lyricism. His work was essentially linear. He also illustrated French Nobel Prize–winning writer Albert Camus, Ghalib, Iqbal, and Faiz. Thousand of the drawings he executed, were given away to his admirers. He wrote and published hundreds of quartets.\n\nSadequain was the most prolific painter in the period following the independence of Pakistan in 1947. He was constantly at work and he worked on large scale. He repeatedly stated that he was not interested in decorating drawing rooms of rich and powerful. He worked on large murals for public buildings, symbolic of the collective labour of humanity, and his work was mostly donated to the public.\n\nSadequain in his own words was primarily a painter of figures with allegorical significance.\n\nSadequain was a social commentator. His murals depict man's endless quest to discover and develop the potentialities that lie within him. His murals are densely filled and tightly packed with images to render adequately the lofty subject. As a master muralist some of his works adorn the halls of:\n\nHis monumental murals, in excess of thirty-five, adorn the halls of State Bank, Frere Hall Karachi; Lahore Museum; Punjab University; Mangla Dam; Aligarh Muslim University; Banaras Hindu University; Indian Institute of Geological Sciences; Islamic Institute in Delhi, and Abu Dhabi Power House, among others. His paintings and calligraphies in the building of Islamic Institute in Delhi alone cover more than seven thousand square feet. Sadequain painted his earliest murals at Jinnah Hospital and PIA headquarters in 1950s. These murals have disappeared and their fate is unknown.\n\nIn 1961 he painted the huge mural (62'X10') in the Head Office of the State Bank of Pakistan at Karachi, titled \"Treasures of Time,\" in which he showed the intellectual advance of man from the times of Socrates to that of lqbal and Einstein. It is a linear creation that shows a pageant of intellectuals and thinkers of the Greek era, mathematicians and chemists of the Middle East, the scholars of the European Renaissance, and the 20th-century laureates. This large mural has endured transportation from the State Bank to Mohatta Palace (for the exhibition The Holy Sinner), and back to State Bank and has deep scars to prove the ordeal.\n\nSadequain painted the ceiling of the Lahore museum entrance hall, depicting Evolution of Mankind, and additional nine large panels of calligraphies for the Islamic Gallery. The ceiling spans approximately 100 x . The Panjab government has recently allocated money for the restoration of the mural.\n\nPunjab University houses the mural \"Quest of Knowledge\" in its library. The mural appropriately depicts the academic theme commensurate with the institution of learning where it is housed. Young men and women are shown holding high the key to learning that unleashes riches in their lives. The mural is mounted high up against the ceiling of the main library and appears to be in good condition.\n\nThe mural in the Punjab Library (adjacent to Lahore Museum) is mounted in the library hall located on the main floor. All four sections of the mural have been disassembled and dismounted because of the damage to the building due to water seepage.\n\nThe ceiling of the Frere Hall, Karachi displays in bold, the words, \"Arz-o-Samawat\" (Earth and the Heavens) bears a historical significance, since it represents the last piece of work by Sadequain. He died before he could complete it. Before he started painting the stupendous mural on the ceiling he dedicated it to the citizens of the great city of Karachi. The mural is for the citizens to cherish and it should be treated as a national treasure. However, because of the security conditions the citizens are deprived of entry in Frere Hall and the impressive historical building along with the Mural lie in desperate need of care. The bright colours Sadequain used in the mural to depict the Earth and the Heavens are fading away because of the environmental conditions. The large mural is painted on dozens of individual panels that are put together like the pieces of a puzzle. Several of the panels are detached and hang down under their own weight. It is only a matter of time before the panels start falling apart.\n\nThe mural titled \"Saga of Labor\" by Sadequain at Mangla Dam is a glowing tribute to the working men and women of all times and places who form the backbone of any society. The mural hangs in the powerhouse of Mangla Dam and so far endured the harsh environmental conditions of the huge enclosure that also houses gigantic electric turbines.\n\nBanaras Hindu University houses one large mural. It is kept in good condition because of care provided to it by the authorities.\n\nIn addition to the murals mentioned above, Sadequain did many others, perhaps in the neighbourhood of over thirty-five in all. However, whereabouts of several of them are not certain. For example, one mural was done for the Naval Headquarters, but cannot be located. There was one done for the PIA's office in Paris, which does not exist at that location. There were murals dedicated to the War of 1965 that cannot be traced.\n\nSadequain painted thousands of paintings, drawings, and murals in his lifetime. He hardly ever sold his work and mostly gave it away; sometimes his work was simply taken, and sometimes even stolen. In his lifetime there were two galleries named after him by the authorities, but they no longer exist.\n\nIn an interview he said, \"People ask why I don't paint flowers, butterflies and landscapes? I tell them that I seek the truth and I am after reality. I am not inspired by someone posing against the backdrop of roses in a vase or pink curtains. What inspires me is a person who has gone hungry for hours and is struggling for survival. The expression that lights his face at the end of the day when he has finally found some scraps, that is what touches me. I am a painter of the expression of reality.\" Self-proclaimed \"Faqir,\" Sadequain was outside society's worldly greed or hypocrisy and called himself \"speaker of truth.\"\n\nBest known for his calligraphies, Sadequain painted abstracts, drawings, and sketches on thousands of canvases, volumes of paper, and multitudes of other conventional and unconventional materials.\n\nSadequain was responsible for the renaissance of Islamic calligraphy in Pakistan. He was one of the greatest calligraphers of Pakistan and helped transform the art of calligraphy into serious expressionist paintings. He claimed that his transformation into a calligrapher was manifested by divine inspiration. He did not follow the established tradition and created his own style of script. His alphabets exude motion, mood, and paint vivid pictures of the message of the words of Quran. Sadequain claimed that many of his paintings, especially after the seventies, had been based on calligraphic forms to portray images of cities, buildings, forests, men, and women.\n\nIn Pakistan, the art of calligraphy was relegated to a second-class status until Sadequain adapted this medium in the late nineteen sixties. Until then a few painters experimented with the medium but it remained just that, an experiment. After Sadequain transformed the art of calligraphy into a mainstream art form, most of the known Pakistani artists have followed Sadequain and calligraphic art now dominates the art scene.\n\nIn nineteen sixties Sadequain was invited by the French authorities to illustrate the award-winning novel \"The Stranger\" by French writer Albert Camus. Sadequain also illustrated on canvas the poetry of Ghalib, Iqbal and Faiz as homage to their place in classical literature. Sadequain wrote thousands of quartets, which address a common theme of social and cultural dogmas and published them.\n\nA special word is warranted about the large murals Sadequain painted, which are spread all over the subcontinent. His murals depict man's struggle, his achievements and persistent thirst to discover his endless potential. His murals are full of activity, ideas, and they read like an unfolding story about their particular theme.\n\nOne of his most powerful works is the gigantic mural measuring 200×30 feet for the Power House of Mangla Dam. He completed it in an incredible period of three months during which he worked day and night. Aptly so, the mural is titled \"The Saga of Labor,\" The mural, one of the largest in the world portrays the history of mankind. Its pays homage to its characters, which are exclusively labourers and worker, facing and struggling against the powerful elements of nature.\n\nSadequain was a social commentator. He crafted his message on canvas by the aid of powerful symbols and rich colours. Characteristically he would address particular situations through a series of paintings, which would follow a common theme and yet maintain their individuality. His symbols transformed with time as he adapted to the changing conditions.\n\nDuring the 1960s he stayed in interior Sindh, in areas surrounded by desert, where nothing could grow except cactus which would break through the rugged sandy ground. The sight of the wild cactus growing in scorching heat and surviving the harshest of conditions left a lasting impression on Sadequain. He adapted this symbol to depict labour, struggle, and persistence against natural elements of resistance and triumph of hard work.\n\nSadequain sketched numerous drawings titled Cobweb Series, Crow Series, Christ Series, Hope Series, and Sun Series during the sixties, which were commentaries on prevailing social and cultural conditions. Sadequain saw cobwebs engulfing our society rendering it speechless and motionless. The Crow Series projected men as timid worshippers of scarecrows because they have lost self-respect and spirituality. Crows however are not intimidated and gang up on humanity in flocks and pick on lifeless humans. In the Christ Series Sadequain showed the crime being committed in front of the Christ while he was still alive on the Cross.\n\nContrary to man's images portrayed in Cobweb or Crow Series of drawings, Sadequain glorified the hard work and labour of ordinary workingmen by showing them struggling with primitive tools during the stone age, developing agricultural land, discovering scientific breakthroughs, and exploring the universe. He sometimes used Kufic script to form human images and carried that theme through vast canvases. One of the representative works of this genre is titled \"The Last Supper,\" which was awarded the prestigious Binnale de Paris award in France. Sadequain was awarded first prize in National Exhibition of Pakistan in the early sixties. He was bestowed with several awards and medals in Pakistan as well as foreign counties. But he seldom attended the award ceremonies neither accepted the award money.\n\nSadequain had a commanding knowledge of literature. He wrote thousands of \"Rubaiyats,\" which he published in several books. These verses have been adjudged unique and critically acclaimed by literary elite. Like his paintings, the verses also address the topics of human nature, virtues and weaknesses of society.\n\nDuring his life Sadequain exhibited his works on all continents. His exhibitions in foreign countries were sponsored at State levels and were attended by large audiences from all walks of life. A \"faqir\" at heart he gave away most of his paintings to friends and foes, and painted gigantic murals in public buildings at no cost. He declared the giveaways as gifts to the citizens of the cities where the public buildings were situated.\n\nSadequain has been covered in the print and electronic media extensively such as the TV series \"Mojeeza-e-Fun\" which highlighted his work in a masterful documentary. \"The Holy Sinner\" is a book published in 2003, cataloguing a number of his paintings, which were exhibited at Mohatta Palace, Karachi during the same year. The massive book is one of the largest and heaviest ever published in Pakistan and it also has a collection of articles about Sadequain published previously in magazines and papers over the course of years.\n\n\nThe mammoth book \"The Holy Sinner: Sadequain\", is a tribute and celebration of this Pakistani artist's vitality, innovation, restless fervor and immense amount of energy. This book launched as the third stage of a monumental project with the same title is possibly the largest art project in the sub-continent to pay tribute to a single artist under the aegis of Mohatta Palace Museum. The first stage of the project was an exhibition of paintings of Sadequain under the same title and the second stage of the project; a black and white catalogue of Sadequain's work was launched last year. The fourth stage of the project will consist of four documentaries; both in Urdu and English language and one special feature film would be produced about the internationally recognised artist.\n\nThe book of about 700 pages, weighing 12 kg, includes the reproduction of some 400 of Sadequain's creations, supported by an anthology of critical commentaries by the artist's contemporaries and journalists including renowned artistic figures and critics. It contains essays on the great artist and plates of his paintings and sketches. The sections in the book consist of Photographic Essay, Critical Approaches, Recollections, Reproductions, Catalogue, Pictures at an Exhibition, Rubaiyat, Photo Epilogue, Afterward, Life and Works. The book is largest monograph in the region compiled and produced to pay unprecedented tribute to a single artist, setting a new trend for paying tributes to artists in South Asia.\n\nSome of the themes of the paintings in the book are 'A stranger in paradise', 'Endless purgatory', 'Rhapsody in Blue', 'Wheel in fire', 'A long day', 'Of human bondage' also included in bold form the poetic verses of Ghalib, Iqbal and Faiz.\n\nThe book is primarily based on the famous exhibition of paintings of Sadequain titled, \"The Holy Sinner: Sadequain\" which ended about a year ago and was by far the largest-attended and longest-running exhibition in the history of Pakistani art. Salima Hashmi, daughter of the late poet Faiz Ahmad Faiz and Hameed Haroon, proprietor of Dawn Publications were the co-curators of the groundbreaking exhibition. The exhibition, featuring more than 200 non-calligraphic works of the Amroha-born artist, was held at Mohatta Palace Museum and it remained open for approximately one year.\n\nThe exhibition was attended by more than 90,000 art lovers at a cost of Rs 100 each who saw rare paintings and murals by Sadequain whose commercial worth, at a low estimate, was more than Rs 500 million.\n\nSadequain was an untraditional and self-made, self-taught painter and calligrapher who created a mysterious and mystic environment with his bold and uninhibited use of media and lines had a cult-like following in his own lifetime. His unique style, whether pertaining to his paintings or calligraphy, was widely referred to as \"Khat-e-Sadequain\" primarily evolved during his stay at a Karachi seaside desert called Gadani. The Holy Sinner: Sadequain contains over 400 of his series of drawings, paintings, and murals, each representing a different phase of his career and depicting his unique strokes, style, and color schemes. It was at Gadani that Sadequain observed the wild growth of cactus in the scorching heat of desert where water was scarce and conditions were harshest. Yet the cactus grew tall, shooting upwards in defiance of all odds. The powerful symbol of defiant cactus transcends throughout Sadequain’s work and creates a lasting impression on the observer.\n\nThe exhibition was a rare opportunity for the viewers because Sadequain, who became a virtual household word for his calligraphic works did not exhibit his abstract paintings during the last days of his life and of course the large number of murals that he painted were dedicated to specific locations only. Hameed Haroon described very aptly as follows: \"Sadequain's symbols are part-calligraphic strokes, part-sacred standards or alams that first emerged in the eighth century as the symbols of the armies of Shi'ite Islam, perhaps most visible as representations of allegorical virtue in the annual Moharram ritual following the Karbala massacre; part Sufic tributes to the son-in-law of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, the martyred Ali, whose horned alif in the Kufic script provokes a militancy of sentiment and a plea for transformation based, ironically enough, on the fundamentals of early Islam.\"\n\nThe paintings in the exhibition were loaned by virtually who is who of the Pakistani elite. In his lifetime Sadequain hardly ever sold his paintings to individuals. As an ironic twist of circumstances he is perhaps the only artist with the distinction that his work is openly copied and sold for handsome profits by his imitators. Recently two news stories were printed in local papers, which testify, in the most unconventional manner, to the great stature of Sadequain. Both news stories were related to burglars, one in which a house belonging to one of the prominent artists in Karachi was broken in and the thieves got away with jewellery and other petty items, and the other incident involved the house of a well to do citizen where the stolen items included only the paintings by Sadequain.\n\nThe book, The Holy Sinner: Sadequain, includes drawings series titled, Cacti series, the Sun series, Exposition series, Cobweb series, etc. A word about the Cobweb series is appropriate because it was created during the turbulent times of 1960s and the drawings depict men and women, even the building structures immobilised by cobwebs as though in decay and transgressing instead of marching on the rocky road to the peaks of perfection.\n\nThe paintings in The Holy Sinner: Sadequain, represent various themes such as man’s struggle against natural odds, mother and child, still life figures from the early life of the artist and many others. The centerpiece of the book is its treatment of the famous mural by Sadequain commissioned for the State Bank of Pakistan. The mural titled “The Treasures of Time” depicts evolution of mankind and traces the history of great scholars, philosophers, scientists, mathematicians, poets, and writers. It is said that the mural became a turning point in the intellectual development of Sadequain. Hameed Haroon noted that from this onwards, his intellectual force entered the world of Ovid, the romance of Alexander and the Amroha-spun tales of ancient Greece and Rome, leading to a unique fusion in Pakistan's art history.\n\nIn his lifetime two art galleries were established by the official authorities, one in Islamabad called Gallery Sadequain, which was located in Block F and the second one in the Frere Hall Karachi, also called Gallery Sadequain. After he died, the Islamabad gallery was disassembled and some two hundred paintings were unaccounted for and the Frere Hall gallery is closed for all practical purposes because of the security reasons. Forty calligraphic panels on marble slabs measuring x 5 ft each have disappeared.\n\nAt the time of his death at OMI Clinic in Karachi, his attendant was present when Sadequain took his last breath at 2:00 am. The attendant did not inform the doctors of Sadequain's death and instead took off for Frere Hall where Sadequain had been working on the ceiling. The attendant loaded as many paintings as he could in a Suzuki van, took them to a safe house and then returned to the hospital to inform the doctors. The stolen paintings are resurfacing for sale at regular frequency.\n\nPIA owned Mid Way House hotel had a big Sadequain's painting at entrance and lot of other artwork by renowned Pakistani artists. After the sale of the hotel, all that art treasure is not on display or submitted to any art gallery.\n\nSadeqain died on 10 February 1987 at Karachi, Pakistan at the age of 63. He is buried in Sakhi Hassan graveyard in Karachi.\n\n\nOn 14 August 2006, Pakistan Post issued a Rs. 40 sheetlet to posthumously honour 10 Pakistani Painters. Besides Sadequain, the other 9 painters are: Laila Shahzada, Askari Mian Irani, Zahoor ul Akhlaq, Ali Imam, Shakir Ali, Anna Molka Ahmed, Zubeida Agha, Ahmed Pervez and Bashir Mirza.\n\n"}
{"id": "3456812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3456812", "title": "Schechter Day School Network", "text": "Schechter Day School Network\n\nThe Schechter Day School Network, formerly the Solomon Schechter Day School Association, located at 820 Second Avenue, New York, New York, is the organization of Jewish day schools that identify with Conservative Judaism. The network provides guidance and resources for its member schools in the United States and Canada.\n\nThe express mission of the network is to promote: the continued growth and vitality of its member schools, which serve a broad Jewish population and are characterized by Conservative thought and practice, achievement and social responsibility, in a culture of joyous spiritual engagement, caring and community. The Association of Solomon Schechter Day Schools dates back to 1965, created as part of an effort to create standards and promote cooperation between the existing Conservative day schools and promote the establishment of new schools.\n\nAmong the network's major achievements is the publication, in conjunction with the Melton Research Center, of the MaToK curriculum for the teaching of Torah in elementary schools that combines the commitment to tradition, Hebrew language, and inquiry.\n\nThe network provides mentoring for new school heads; a fellowship that helps place a recent recipient of a rabbinical degree or graduate degree in Jewish education into an educational leadership position in one of the Schechter schools; placement services; consultation in such areas as the teaching of prayer; regional conferences on educational subjects for teachers and administrators; and support for curricular and marketing initiatives.\n\nThe first Conservative day school, Beth El Day School in Rockaway Park, Queens, opened in 1951. During the 1950s and 1960s, additional schools opened throughout the country as parents began to seek schools that combined high general academic standards, authentic Jewish study and life, and open intellectual inquiry in all areas of study.\nThe first school to adopt the name of Rabbi Solomon Schechter, the founder of Conservative Judaism in its 20th century form, was the Solomon Schechter School of Queens, New York City, which opened in 1956. In 1966, Solomon Schechter School of Westchester opened in White Plains, New York. The Hillel Day School in Farmington Hills, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit, celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2007.\n\nThe first Schechter school on the West Coast of the United States was Akiba Academy in Los Angeles, brought into existence in 1968 by a loose coalition of rabbis and leaders of several congregations. As additional day schools opened in Los Angeles, it merged with its host congregation, Sinai Temple, and became known as Sinai Akiba Academy. In 2017 the school was renamed as \"Alice and Nahum Lainer School\" in honor of the Lainers' \"transformative\" donation to the school's endowment.\n\nAlso well known are the Solomon Schechter Day School of Greater Boston (located in Newton, Massachusetts, founded in 1961 and currently enrolling over 500 students); the Solomon Schechter School of Manhattan; and Perelman Academy in Philadelphia.\n\nBy 1968, a high school in Brooklyn, New York was opened. Today there are approximately 50 Solomon Schechter Day Schools, including several high schools. Despite the dropping numbers of Conservative Jews worldwide, some of the Solomon Schechter Schools have continued to increase their number of students. One such school is the Solomon Schechter Day School of Essex and Union (NJ) which has over 800 students enrolled and has grown steadily since its founding in 1965. The school is also one of the largest, consisting of two campuses, an Upper and Lower School, both located in West Orange, New Jersey.\n\nSolomon Schechter School of Westchester opened a new upper school campus in Hartsdale, New York, in 2001. The school now also has two campuses, both in Westchester, with more than 900 students in grades K-12.\n\nFrom 1993 to 2012 the network lost a third of its schools, as total enrollment dropped from 17,500 to 11,300 over the two decades. As of 2012, the Schechter Day School Network announced that it was considering seeking independence from the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism so that the network and its 45 schools would be able to raise funds independently, with options of joining the RAVSAK network also considered as an option.\n\nIn 2016 the Schechter Day School Network became part of Prizmah: Center for Jewish Day Schools, a new organization encompassing five day school groups from different Jewish denominations.\n\n"}
{"id": "48362399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48362399", "title": "Scientology in Pakistan", "text": "Scientology in Pakistan\n\nScientology in Pakistan is said to be followed among a very small number of people, mainly from the middle and upper classes of Karachi. The Dianetics Centre of Karachi for Personal Excellence, located in Gulshan-e-Iqbal, is affiliated with the Church of Scientology. The center provides introductory courses, individual counseling and life improvement courses. \n\nSeveral Scientology-affiliated organisations are active in the country. Youth Together for Human Rights Education (YTHRE), affiliated with Youth for Human Rights International, promotes human rights education and has conducted workshops on character development for thousands of participants. The Criminon program, run by the Scientologist community under the coordination of the Society for Advancement of Health, Education and the Environment (SAHEE), has been used to rehabilitate over 1,500 prisoners in Pakistani jails. Over 12,000 policemen have also attended Criminon workshops. The Study Tech teaching method developed by L. Ron Hubbard has been adopted in schools in Pakistan, a program for which Applied Scholastics has trained many teachers. Scientologist-run Assist teams have aided in several relief operations throughout the country in times of natural disasters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3860899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3860899", "title": "Sikh music", "text": "Sikh music\n\nSikh music or Shabad kirtan is Kirtan-style singing of hymns or Shabad from the Guru Granth Sahib, the central text of Sikhism.\n\nIt began in the late 16th century as the musical expression of mystical poetry, accompanied by a musical instrument \"rabab\", by Bhai Mardana an early follower of Guru Nanak –the founder of Sikhism. Following Nanak, all the Sikh gurus sang in the then-prevalent classical and folk music styles, accompanied by stringed and percussion instruments. The style was where the text was of prime significance and the music played a supporting, albeit important, role. The Gurus specified the raag for each hymn in the Sikh sacred scripture, the Guru Granth Sahib.\n\nSignificant efforts have been under way since the 1970s to revive the rich Sikh music tradition initiated and developed by the Sikh Gurus. Various terms used to refer to this tradition include \"Shabad keertan parampara\", \"Gurbani sangeet parampara\" and \"Gurmat sangeet\".\n\nDevotional and communal singing in Sikhism is called \"Kirtan\". It is typically performed at Gurdwaras (Sikh temples) but can be done publicly 'on the move' as \"Nagar Kirtan\", wherein Sikh scriptures and legends are recited in a song, set to a certain \"Raga\" and \"Taal\" and accompanied with music using the \"Sargram\" notation. \"Shabad Kirtan\" refers to the musical recitation of the Guru Granth Sahib, the primary scripture in the Sikhism tradition which is also arranged according to \"raga\". The \"Shabad Kirtan\" can be listened to silently or sung along with the gathered congregation.\n\n\"Kirtan\" in Sikh history has been the musical analog of \"Kathas\" recitation, both preferably performed by \"ragi jatha\", or professional trained performers. A Sikh Kirtan is a religious, aesthetic and social event, usually held in a congregational setting on Sundays or over certain festivals to honor the historical Gurus, but major temples in the Sikh tradition recite \"Kirtan\" everyday as a mark of daily bhakti (devotional remembrance) of God's name. The congregational setting is called a \"Sangat\" or \"Satsang\", a word that in ancient Indian texts means \"like minded individuals, or fellow travelers on a spiritual journey\".\n\nThe Gurus themselves created numourous musical instruments including the Dilruba, the Sarangi, the Esraj and a modification of the Pakhawaj creating an early form of the Tabla. Till the 1980s most of these instruments had become almost extinct but the renewed interests and the revival of the Shabad Kirtan and other music of the Sikh history brought them back to popularity.\n\n\nThree types of Sikh musicians that are rababis, ragis, and dhad.\n\nRagas have a direct relationship to human moods and the following are the connections between Ragas and feeling:\n\nA raga is a complex structure of musical melody used in Indian classical music. It is a set of rules of how to build a melody which can ignite a certain mood[1] in the reciter and listeners. The Sikh holy scripture, Guru Granth Sahib, is composed in and divided by 60 ragas. Each raga is a chapter or section in the Guru Granth Sahib starting with Asaa raag, and all the hymns produced in Asaa raag are found in this section ordered chronologically by the Guru or other Bhagat that have written hymns in that raga. There are many websites on the internet giving wrong information about raags. \n\nFollowing is the list of all sixty Raags under which Gurbani is written, in order of appearance. \n1.Asa\n2.Gujari\n3.Gauri Deepaki\n4.Dhanasri\n5.Gauri Poorabi\n6.Siri\n7.Majh\n8.Gauri Guarairee\n9.Gauri\n10.Gauri Dakhani\n11.Gauri Chaitee\n12.Gauri Bairagan\n13.Gauri Poorabi Deepaki\n14.Gauri Malva\n15.Gauri Mala\n16.Gauri Majh\n17.Gauri Sorath\n18.Asavari\n19.Asa Kafi\n20.Asa Asavari\n21.Devgandhari\n22.Bihagra\n23.Vadhans\n24.Vadhans Dakhani\n25.Sorath\n26.Jaitsri\n27.Todi\n28.Bairarri\n29.Tilang\n30.Tilang Kafi\n31.Suhee\n32.Suhee Kafi\n33.Suhee Lalit\n34.Bilaval\n35.Bilaval Dakhani\n36.Gound\n37.Bilaval Gound\n38.Ramkali\n39.Ramkali Dakhani\n40.Nut Narayan\n41.Nut\n42.Mali Gaura\n43.Maru\n44.Maru Kafi\n45.Maru Dakhani\n46.Tukhari\n47.Kedara\n48.Bhairo\n49.Basant\n50.Basant Hindol\n51.Sarang\n52.Malhar\n53.Kanra\n54.Kaliyan\n55.Kaliyan Bhopali\n56.Parbhati\n57.Parbhati Bibhas\n58.Bibhas Parbhati\n59.Parbhati Dakhani\n60.Jaijavanti\n\nRaags are used in Sikh music simply to create a mood, and are not restricted to particular times. A mood can be created by the music of the raag regardless of the time of day. There are a total of 60 raags or melodies within the Guru Granth Sahib. Each melody sets a particular mood for the hymn, adding a deeper dimension to it. The Guru Granth Sahib is incorrectly thought by many to have just 31 raags or melodies. Raag data kindly provided by Prof. Surinder Singh from Raj Academy (UK). \n\n1. Raag Aasaa (ਆਸਾ) – Aasaa has strong emotions of inspiration and courage. This Raag gives the listener the determination and ambition to put aside any excuses and to proceed with the necessary action to achieve the aim. It generates feelings of passion and zeal to succeed and the energy generated from these feelings enables the listener to find the strength from within to achieve success, even when the achievement seems difficult. The determined mood of this Raag ensures that failure is not an option and motivates the listener to be inspired. \n\n2. Raag Gujari (ਗੂਜਰੀ) – If there is a perfect simile for Raag Gujari, it would be that of a person isolated in the desert, who has their hands cupped, holding water. However, it is only when the water begins to slowly seep through their joined hands that the person comes to realise the real value and importance of the water. Similarly Raag Gujari leads the listener to realise and become aware of passing time and in this way comes to value the precious nature of time itself. The revelation brings the listener to an awareness and admission of their own death and mortality, making them utilize their remaining ‘life time’ more wisely. \n\n3. Raag Gauri Deepaki (ਗਉੜੀ ਦੀਪਕੀ) – In the Guru Granth Sahib, there is one shabad (hymn) under the title Raag Gauri Deepaki. In this shabad, Sohila is a lorrie (lullaby), which is narrating a kind of bedtime story. This Raag generates feelings of warmth and security, just like a mother singing a lullaby to her child. Lullabies were traditionally used not only as a way of comforting a child, but also as a means in which mothers shared their past experiences and knowledge. Similarly this Raag enlightens the listener through knowledge and experience and brings them to the realization that to gain the truth, you must first realize that you are in darkness. This enlightened state gives the listener a feeling of certainty, fearlessness and a new hope for the future. \n\n4. Raag Dhanasari (ਧਨਾਸਰੀ) – Dhanasari is a sense of being completely carefree. This sensation arises from a feeling of contentment and ‘richness’ from the things we have in our lives and gives the listener a positive and optimistic attitude towards the future. \n\n5. Raag Gauri Purbi (ਗਉੜੀ ਪੂਰਬੀ) – Gauri Purbi contains strong emotions of experience along with feelings of preparation, in order to go further and to achieve more. Although there are confident feelings in this Raag, there is a sense of uncertainty as there is a heartfelt request for help to achieve the desired goal. The sentiments of this Raag are well considered assessments of the circumstances, without excess confidence or extreme helplessness. \n\n6. Raag Siri Raag (ਸਿਰੀ ਰਾਗੁ) – The basis of this Raag is steeped in the traditions of mainstream Indian Classical music. Siri Raag is serious and thought provoking in its nature and creates an atmosphere where the listener is led to heed the advice given therein. The listener (the mind) is made aware of the truth of the message and with this ‘education’ is given the strength to face the future with both humility and the ‘gained’ knowledge. \n\n7. Raag Majh (ਮਾਝ) – Raag Majh was composed by the Fifth Sikh Guru (Shri Guru Arjun Dev ji). The Raag’s origins are based in Punjabi Folk Music and its essence was inspired by the Majha regions traditions of ‘Ausian’; the game of waiting and yearning for the return of a loved one. The feelings evoked by this Raag have often been compared to that of a mother waiting for her child to return after a long period of separation. She has an anticipation and hope for the child’s return, although at the same moment she is painfully aware of the uncertainty of their return home. This Raag brings to life the emotion of extreme love and this is highlighted by the sorrow and anguish of separation. \n\n8. Raag Gauri Guarairi (ਗਉੜੀ ਗੁਆਰੇਰੀ) – Gauri Guarairi contains a mixture of calmness and control in feeling, however the emotional message of the Raag is open and truthful in its approach. The emotions are conveyed in a direct and disciplined way. The balanced and focused character of this Raag is evident in its structure, in that its scale is restricted to ‘madh saptak’ (middle scale). \n\n9. Raag Gauri (ਗਉੜੀ) – Gauri creates a mood where the listener is encouraged to strive harder in order to achieve an objective. However, the encouragement given by the Raag does not allow the ego to increase. This therefore creates the atmosphere where the listener is encouraged, but still prevented from becoming arrogant and self-important. \n\n10. Raag Gauri Dakhani (ਗਉੜੀ ਦਖਣੀ) – Gauri Dakhani has a similar nature to Gauri; however, the South Indian style of this Raag, including the taal (rhythm) highlights the strict and disciplined aspect of Gauri. \n\n11. Raag Gauri Chayti (ਗਉੜੀ ਚੇਤੀ) – Gauri Chayti generates a deliberate sensation of fear by creating a conscious reminder of what may occur if we loose the things we take for granted. It awakens feelings of panic and regret, by exposing the listener to the possible outcome of what might happen should this warning not be heeded. \n\n12. Raag Gauri Bairagan (ਗਉੜੀ ਬੈਰਾਗਣਿ) – As the title suggests Gauri ‘Bairagan’ is a Raag of bairaag (sadness of separation). The listener is left with an intense feeling of sorrow and emptiness. However, the balance of Raag Gauri ensures that this sense of loss and sadness motivates the listener to try to discover exactly what is missing. Gauri Bairagan therefore evokes feelings of sadness, which become a lesson, as opposed to creating a sense of depression. \n\n13. Raag Gauri Purbi Deepaki (ਗਉੜੀ ਪੂਰਬੀ ਦੀਪਕੀ) – The tone of this Raag is that of self-assessment with a positive attitude of improvement. It creates an atmosphere of constantly progressing with confidence and experience, as well as instilling a positive belief of enduring achievement. \n\n14. Raag Gauri Majh (ਗਉੜੀ ਮਾਝ) – Gauri Majh is a well-planned emotional ‘act’, which reaches out to fulfil a yearning created by the Raag. This yearning is similar to that of Raag Majh’s regret, hope and anticipation, however in this instance it is created deliberately in order to sway the listener to react to the longing. \n\n15. Raag Gauri Malva (ਗੌੜੀ ਮਾਲਵਾ) – Gauri Malva is based on Punjabi Folk music and is influenced by the ‘Malva’ region of Punjab and the Malvaee hospitality. The nature of this Raag can be compared to the thoughtful, very serious, yet caring advice given by a true friend. The Raag persuades the listener with such truth and friendliness, that it is impossible to disagree, even if the listener does not like the advice being given. \n\n16. Raag Gauri Mala (ਗਉੜੀ ਮਾਲਾ) – The essence of Gauri Mala is a combination of good, pure, true and positive thoughts added together one by one. There is a feeling of having worked hard and an increased energy, which encourages more devotion towards the truth. \n\n17. Raag Gauri Sorath (ਗਉੜੀ ਸੋਰਠਿ) – Gauri Sorath has a definite feeling of attraction and appeal, which woos the listener’s attention to the subject matter or target. However, the feelings of being enticed and lured are balanced with a sense of duty and realisation, of needing to obey the warning given. \n\n18. Raag Aasaa Kafi (ਆਸਾ ਕਾਫੀ) – Aasaa Kafi has a carefree and self-assured nature. It is confident in its outlook and does not hold onto any false hopes. The feelings of boundless energy, along with the confidence gained by previous experiences, create an inspirational atmosphere for the listener. \n\n19. Raag Asavari (ਆਸਾਵਰੀ) – Asavari has an atmosphere of real energy and enthusiasm, which encourages the listener to complete the necessary tasks. However, the mood of this Raag is genuine and there is therefore no pretence of showing off its hardworking nature. \n\n20. Raag Aasaa Asavari (ਆਸਾ ਆਸਾਵਰੀ) – Aasaa Asavari provides a sense of assurance to achieve your desired goal with courage, love and confidence. It is a precise direction toward achieving a set outcome, with confidence and positivity fuelled with a burst of energy. The nature of this raag is to produce a strong sense of capability in the listener, converting energy into passion with the motivation to repeat this positivity. The strength of this raag churns out the best of a personality providing the individual with the necessary knowledge to bring thoughts into action. \n\n21. Raag Devgandhari (ਦੇਵਗੰਧਾਰੀ) – Devgandhari conveys the feeling of satisfaction that comes from making an achievement. These emotions make the listener feel empowered to do more and diminish any feelings of laziness. This state of satisfaction is that of extreme happiness and contentment, and leaves the listener with the feeling of being in paradise. \n\n22. Raag Bihagara (ਬਿਹਾਗੜਾ) – The mood of Bihagara is that of extreme sadness and pain, which gives rise to the need to find peace and understanding. The heightened emotional state of sadness is only harnessed by the craving for truth and meaning. \n\n23. Raag Vadhans (ਵਡਹੰਸੁ) – Vadhans is based on Punjabi Folk music and is set in the traditions of ‘Ghoreea’, ‘Suhag’ and ‘Alohnian’. The feelings instilled by this Raag can be compared to those of a bride on the day of her wedding; she is happy and sad. Although she is going to her groom, who fills her with hope and joy, she is also sad to be leaving her family. \n\n24. Raag Vadhans Dakhani (ਵਡਹੰਸੁ ਦਖਣੀ) – The mood of this Raag is very similar to Raag Vadhans, however due to its South Indian style of expression, it is more disciplined in its nature. \n\n25. Raag Sorath (ਸੋਰਠਿ) – Sorath conveys the feeling of having such a strong belief in something that you want to keep repeating the experience. In fact this feeling of certainty is so strong that you become the belief and live that belief. The atmosphere of Sorath is so powerful, that eventually even the most unresponsive listener will be attracted. \n\n26. Raag Jaitsiri (ਜੈਤਸਰੀ) – Jaitsiri conveys the heartfelt emotion of not being able to live without someone. Its mood is preoccupied with feelings of dependence and an overwhelming sense of desperately reaching out to be with that person. \n\n27. Raag Todi (ਟੋਡੀ) – Todi consists of both wisdom and humbleness. It is through these sentiments that the Raag takes a simple approach to explain things that we may be aware of, but fail to ponder upon. The Raag draws the attention of the listener to contemplate these things and gives an explanation with such conviction, that we are compelled to agree. \n\n28. Raag Bairari (ਬੈਰਾੜੀ) – Bairari stimulates the feeling of improving and continuing with a task, which has already been accomplished. It is an unmoving belief that what has been achieved is true and positive, which leads to a hunger and desire to progress to the next stage. Although there is immense confidence in the achievement, there is no conceit or vanity in the accomplishment. \n\n29. Raag Tilang (ਤਿਲੰਗ) – Tilang is full of the feeling of having tried hard to impress, but the feeling that the effort made has not been appreciated. However, the atmosphere is not of anger or upset, but of brooding, as the person you are trying to impress is very dear to you. \n\n30. Raag Tilang Kafi (ਤਿਲੰਗ ਕਾਫੀ) – As with Tilang, this Raag contains the feeling that your effort has been unappreciated, when trying to impress someone. However, in contrast to Raag Tilang, the individual is unperturbed by this feeling. This differentiating aspect arises from the deep love for the person concerned, which prevents the individual from becoming annoyed at the apparent lack of approval. \n\n31. Raag Suhi (ਸੂਹੀ) – Suhi is an expression of such devotion that the listener experiences feelings of extreme closeness and undying love. The listener is bathed in that love and genuinely comes to know what it means to adore. \n\n32. Raag Suhi Kafi (ਸੂਹੀ ਕਾਫੀ) – Suhi Kafi expresses feelings of deep love and security, like that of a child and a parent. A young child feels secure and safe, when surrounded in their parents love. The love felt is so strong that there are no worries and the individual gains a certain confidence from being so secure. \n\n33. Raag Suhi Lalit (ਸੂਹੀ ਲਲਿਤ) – Suhi Lalit contains feelings of emotional resolve. However, there is also a volatile characteristic in that although there is love in these emotions, there is a willingness to step over the line to attain the goal. \n\n34. Raag Bilaval (ਬਿਲਾਵਲ) – Bilaval conveys the emotions of great happiness that come from having attained a goal or achieved an aim. It is an overwhelming feeling of fulfilment, satisfaction and joy, that is experienced when the accomplishments is very important and dear to you. The happiness felt is like laughing out loud, there is no planning or any ulterior motive; it’s just a natural expression of heartfelt happiness arising from a sense of achievement. \n\n35. Raag Bilaval Dakhani (ਬਿਲਾਵਲ ਦਖਣੀ) – This Raag is full of energy, which is shown by the fast rhythm and singing of the South Indian style of expression. The feelings of Bilaval Dakhani are of confidence and happiness, which arises from having achieved the unachievable. \n\n36. Raag Gond (ਗੋਂਡ) – Gond is an expression of triumph, however these feelings are balanced and in perspective ensuring that there is also an aspect of humility. Therefore, although there is a sense of knowing and understanding the achievement, there is not a feeling of becoming obsessed or getting lost in the achievement itself. \n\n37. Raag Bilaval Gond (ਬਿਲਾਵਲ ਗੋਂਡ) – Bilaval Gond consists of emotions of courage and conviction. The atmosphere created by the Raag is that of abstract happiness, however it is still disciplined enough to not be out of control. This Raag expresses its emotions poignantly, with insight and has a thoughtful strategy. It expresses feelings of confidence and happiness, but without any pride. \n\n38. Raag Ramkali (ਰਾਮਕਲੀ) – The emotions in Ramkali are like those of a wise teacher disciplining their student. The student is aware of the pain of learning, but is still conscious of the fact that ultimately it is for the best. In this way Ramkali conveys the change from all that we are familiar with, to something we are certain will be better. \n\n39. Raag Ramkali Dakhani (ਰਾਮਕਲੀ ਦਖਣੀ) – The emotions created by Ramkali Dakhani are those of change from old to new and there is a surety that this alteration is advantageous. These feelings are highlighted and emphasised by the South Indian rhythm and style of expression. \n\n40. Raag Nat Narayan (ਨਟ ਨਾਰਾਇਨ) – Nat Narayan consists of feelings of hastiness and impatience, however simultaneously there is stability and control. Although there is control in the Raag, there is still the impression that it is unbalanced and prone to topple at any time. \n\n41. Raag Nat (ਨਟ) – Nat creates the impression of being wild and uncontrollable and appears extreme in its feeling. It conveys the feeling of being out of control and on the edge, however it returns from the brink, by reestablishing control and stability, and hence creating a sense of relief. This Raag uses its expertise in this way to create feelings of suspense. \n\n42. Raag Mali Gaura (ਮਾਲੀ ਗਉੜਾ) – Mali Gaura conveys the confidence of an expert, whose knowledge is self-evident in both their outlook and actions. This knowledge is learned through experience and therefore creates an air of ‘coolness’. However, this sense of ‘coolness’ is an aspect of true happiness because you have learned how to manage things with expertise and skill. \n\n43. Raag Maru (ਮਾਰੂ) – Maru was traditionally sung on the battlefield in preparation for war. This Raag has an aggressive nature, which creates an inner strength and power to express and emphasise the truth, regardless of the consequences. Maru’s nature conveys the fearlessness and strength that ensures the truth is spoken, no matter what the cost. \n\n44. Raag Maru Kafi (ਮਾਰੂ ਕਾਫੀ) – Although Maru Kafi is forceful and blunt in its nature, it still expresses its emotions in a sweet and attractive way. This Raag is uncompromising in its nature, yet it retains the ability and charm to win the listener over with its relaxed and self-assured approach. As the listener, it makes you feel willing to listen even though the sentiments are harsh and direct. \n\n45. Raag Maru Dakhani (ਮਾਰੂ ਦਖਣੀ) – Maru Dakhani expresses feelings of truth and reality in an uncompromising and outspoken way, which is emphasised by the South Indian style of expression and taal. \n\n46. Raag Tukhari (ਤੁਖਾਰੀ) – Tukhari conveys the soul’s strong ambition to highlight the greatness of The Creator to the mind. This goal is of paramount importance to the soul and it will therefore, not give up even if stubborn mind is unresponsive. This Raag illustrates the soul’s focus on its goal, by conveying its message to the mind directly and then adopting a softer approach. The feelings of this Raag are dominated by the soul’s burning desire to convince the mind to follow its plan of enlightenment and hence becoming one with Akaal (God). \n\n47. Raag Kedara (ਕੇਦਾਰਾ) – Kedara expresses and makes the mind aware of the true character and nature of the soul. It conveys the emotions of honesty, integrity and truthfulness in a practical and caring way. This approach highlights the soul’s character and is memorable, so that the mind is made aware, without arousing cynicism. \n\n48. Raag Bhairao (ਭੇਰੳ) – Bhairao embodies the soul’s faith and heartfelt devotion towards The Creator. It is a kind of fanaticism, where there is a feeling of not being aware or caring about anything else. The emotions conveyed are those of contentment and of being absorbed in a steadfast belief or faith. In this Raag, the soul is relaying the happiness that the mind could potentially experience if it joined in with this devotion \n\n49. Raag Basant (ਬਸੰਤੁ) – Basant denotes the changing of the season and the newness of spring. This Raag encourages the mind to brush away its selfishness, just like spring-cleaning removes all the cobwebs and creates a fresh start. There are feelings of hope and expectation of a new beginning and the start of a new cycle. However, these emotions are not dependent on the physical change of the season, but are an encouragement of an internal effort to change. \n\n50. Raag Basant Hindol (ਬਸੰਤੁ ਹਿੰਡੋਲ) – Basant Hindol conveys the freshness and happiness of a new start and expresses the type of contentment, which comes from working hard to make a change. This Raag is full of hope and creates a sense of being at ease and being satisfied because a new chapter is beginning. \n\n51. Raag Sarang (ਸਾਰੰਗ) – Sarangs character is soothing and has the ability to extinguish the minds smouldering selfishness and negative nature. The emotions of Sarang quench the minds burning desires, by expressing and highlighting the soul’s pure and true thoughts. This is a positive and fulfilling change. \n\n52. Raag Malhar (ਮਲਾਰ) – Malhar is a communication of feelings from the soul, to show the mind how to become cool and refreshed. The mind is always burning with the desire to reach its goals quickly and without effort, however the emotions conveyed in this Raag are able to bring composure and fulfilment to the mind. It is able to bring the mind into this calmness, bringing a sense of satisfaction and contentment. \n\n53. Raag Kaanara (ਕਾਨੜਾ) – Kaanara invokes feelings of being overcome by a personality, which is so impressive that its character is difficult to stop thinking about. The personality conveyed has a magnetism, which makes you think of them as your own and is able to win you over with its remarkable qualities and outlook. \n\n54. Raag Kalian (ਕਲਿਆਨ) – Kalian has a forceful, yet flexible nature. It conveys a desire for something and a resolve to attain it, by whatever means possible. Although determined in its desire, Kalian sometimes uses an accommodating approach and at other times has an aggressive approach, in order to reach its goal. This Raag has a determined, forceful, yet persuasive character, through which it fulfils its desire. \n\n55. Raag Kalian Bhopali (ਕਲਿਆਨ ਭੋਪਾਲੀ) – Kalian Bhopali’s nature is direct and insistent. Just as in Kaliyaan, this Raag conveys the feeling of determination to fulfil its desires. However, in contrast it is not flexible in its approach, as the desired goal is tackled head-on and in a regimented fashion. There is no hesitation and it is only focused on its goal. \n\n56. Raag Parbhati Bibhas (ਪ੍ਰਭਾਤੀ ਬਿਭਾਸ) – Parbhati Bibhas expresses the feelings of compromise between the mind and the soul; a common understanding between the selfishness of the mind and the devotion of the soul evolves. The atmosphere created is like the calmness and serenity of daybreak, along with a sense of preparation for the day to unfold. The ‘partaal’ rhythm represents the change in the method, which is induced by compromise, however it also highlights the balance of concentration. \n\n57. Raag Parbhati (ਪ੍ਰਭਾਤੀ) – The emotions conveyed in Parbhati are those of extreme devotion; there is an intense confidence and love for the entity it is devoted to. This affection arises from knowledge, common sense and a detailed study. There is therefore an understanding and a considered will to devote itself to that entity. \n\n58. Raag Parbhati Dakhani (ਪ੍ਰਭਾਤੀ ਦਖਣੀ) – The nature of Parbhati Dakhani is very similar to that of Parbhati, except that the feelings of devotion are more disciplined. This discipline arises from the South Indian style of expression of this Raag. \n\n59. Raag Bibhas Parbhati (ਬਿਭਾਸ ਪ੍ਰਭਾਤੀ) – Bibhas Parbhati has a self-assured character and has a sense of certainty, which arises from the knowledge gained through awareness. It conveys the wisdom achieved from learning, which inspires contentment. However, this wisdom is not arrogant, but is gentle in its persuasion because there is not a need to ‘show-off’ this knowledge, but a desire to share it, so the recipient is able to learn. \n\n60. Raag Jaijavanti (ਜੈਜਾਵੰਤੀ) – Jaijavanti expresses the feeling of happiness and satisfaction of achievement, however it simultaneously conveys the sadness of losing. An apt simile for this Raag is that of a king winning a battle, however he is then told that his son has perished on the battlefield. This Raag conveys a sense of having to put your duty first, no matter what your inner feelings may be. The duality of the emotions of joy and sorrow help to keep you stable and prevent you reveling in your own achievement. \n\nIn addition to raag names, there exists an indication in the titles of hymns called \"ghar\". The precise meaning of \"ghar\" is not fully understood, although recent research proposes it refers to raag variants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41196343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41196343", "title": "Syed Muhammad Jewan Shah Naqvi", "text": "Syed Muhammad Jewan Shah Naqvi\n\nSyed Muhammad Jewan Shah Naqvi is a prominent Islamic saint of Allo Mahar Sharif. He was the founder of Allo mahar sharif and great Grand son of emperor of Kharasan. It has been recorded that the first of the ancestors of Syed Muhammad Channan Shah, who came to the Allo Mahar Sharif, was Syed Muhammad Jewan Shah Naqvi, well known by the pen-name of Shair Sawar Sarkar. Sarkar came to the South Asia with a contingent of other religious Sufi leaders upon the establishment of Islamic rule in India from the Middle-East. He traces his roots to the first Arab Shaikhs descending from Muhammad through the lineage of Husayn and so he is a Sayyed. The term Shah present in his name is derived from the Persian root for leader which most members of Muhammad's family obtained upon propagating the message of Islam in Persia after his death.\nAll syed fmily of Allo Mahar is his descendants. His son Syed Amir Shah was also a saint and spiritual leader of Nqvis of Allo Mahar. His grand son Pir Syed Muhammad Channan Shah Nuri was a scholar, saint, and preacher of Islam in the South Asia. He founded the Aminia branch of the Sunni Naqshbandi order. He preached Islam in South Asia and brought non-Muslims into the fold of Islam.\n\nThe exact date of his death is not known, but his Urs is celebrated in Allo Mahar shrif on 21 October every year with love and devotion.\n\nThe most well-known treatises and reports, written by the authors of the early period are:\n"}
{"id": "6176819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6176819", "title": "Sādhaka", "text": "Sādhaka\n\nIn Jainism, Buddhism, Hinduism and Yoga, a sādhaka or sādhak or sādhaj (Sanskrit: साधक) is someone who follows a particular \"sādhanā\", or a way of life designed to realize the goal of one's ultimate ideal, whether it is merging with one's eternal Source, \"brahman\", or realization of one's personal deity. The word is related to the Sanskrit \"sādhu\", which is derived from the verb root \"sādh-\", 'to accomplish'. As long as one has yet to reach the goal, they are a \"sādhaka or sādhak\", while one who has reached the goal is called a \"siddha\". In modern usage, \"sadhaka\" is often applied as a generic term for any religious practitioner. In medieval times it was more narrowly used as a technical term for one who had gone through a specific initiation.\n\nHindu, Jain, Tantric, Yogic and Vajrayana Buddhist traditions use the term \"sadhaka or sādhak\" for spiritual initiates and/or aspirants.\n\n"}
{"id": "4610956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4610956", "title": "Tarbut", "text": "Tarbut\n\nThe Tarbut (תרבות) word means \"Culture\" in Hebrew.\nThe Tarbut movement was a network of secular, Hebrew-language schools in parts of the former Jewish Pale of Settlement, specifically in Poland, Romania and Lithuania. Its existence was primarily between World War I and Two, although some schools affiliated with the movement continue to operate today.\n\n\"Tarbut\" was a Zionist network of Hebrew-language educational institutions founded in 1922, when the first Tarbut conference was held in Warsaw. It operated kindergartens, elementary schools, secondary schools, teachers' seminaries, adult education courses, lending libraries and a publishing house that produced pedagogical materials, textbooks and children's periodicals.\n\nTarbut schools had 25,829 students in 1921; 37,000 in 1934–1935; and 45,000 students enrolled in some 270 institutions by 1939. These included about 25% of all students enrolled in Jewish schools in Poland, and 9% of Poland's entire Jewish student population. The curriculum was secular, including science, humanities, and Hebrew studies, including Jewish history.\n\nBy the time the war brought the European Tarbut schools to an end, they had long been suffering from chronic underfunding. European Jews who appealed to the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee for aid included poet Chaim Nachman Bialik and Zionist leaders Nahum Sokolow and Vladimir Jabotinsky.\n\nNonetheless, some Tarbut schools continued to operate during the war years, notably one in Bukhara, Uzbekistan, which served the large population of Jewish refugees from Nazi-occupied Poland. The school operated until the end of the war under the headmastership of Nachum Szochet (נחום שוחט). The graduating students took high school matriculation exams under the auspices of the Polish government-in-exile, and as a result were able to continue their higher education after the war.\n\nTarbut responded to the shift in Hebrew literature publishing to Palestine taking place around the time of its founding by fostering increased local Hebrew-language children's publishing. These efforts included \"Shibolim\" (\"Ears of Wheat\"), a Warsaw biweekly published during 1922-1923 which featured both vowelled and unvowelled text, making it suitable for children of all ages, and consisted largely of literature, entertainment, sports and crafts; and, from 1935-1939, the biweekly \"Olami\", a current-events-heavy series which consisted of \"Olami\" (\"My World\"), for Grades 5-7; \"Olami Hakatan\" (\"My Small World\"), for Grades 3-4; and \"Olami Haktantan\" (\"My Tiny World\"), for Grades 1-2. \"Olami\"'s material included current events in Palestine alongside information about Jewish life in Poland.\n\nThe Tarbut network no longer exists today, and so no school can today affiliate with it. Despite this, Jewish schools which share the values of the original Tarbut network have adopted the word as a part of their names:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47050369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47050369", "title": "Turkish government–Gülen movement conflict", "text": "Turkish government–Gülen movement conflict\n\nThe political conflict between the AKP-ruled Turkish government and the Gülen Movement of Fethullah Gülen began in 2013.\n\nWith similarities in ideology, the AKP and the Gülen Movement have long maintained an alliance, with the latter using their judicial influence to limit opposition from Turkey's secular establishment to the AKP's religious conservatism. Traditionally cosy relations between the AKP government and the Gülen Movement turned sour in late 2013 after Gülen criticised the government's response to the Gezi Park protests and their policy of closing down Gülen's private \"prep-schools\". The disagreement between the government and the movement escalated into a skirmish, with then-Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan accusing the Gülen Movement of trying to bring down the government by using their influence over the judiciary to cause a government corruption scandal (known as the 17-25 investigations due to the dates on which it occurred). The government subsequently responded with large-scale reforms to the police and judiciary forces to purge Gülen's sympathisers from their positions. The conflict has been referred to as a coup attempt by pro-AKP commentators and as a purge of judicial independence by critics.\n\nBranding the movement as a 'parallel structure' and accusing Gülen of setting up an 'armed terrorist group', the government's efforts to purge the influence of the Gülen Movement has become a mainstream issue in Turkish politics and has sparked nationwide concerns over judicial independence and growing government authoritarianism in Turkey.\n\nRelations between the Turkish government and the Gülen Movement date back to the premiership of Turgut Özal, who took office in 1983. The leader of the movement, Fethullah Gülen, has resided in Pennsylvania since 1999. Originating from a series of conferences and schools, the Movement gradually increased its influence in both the Turkish political and justice systems, with many of Gülen's supporters ending up occupying senior positions in the Judiciary. The Movement's influence in the Turkish government culminated in bringing forward the highly controversial Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer court cases against critics of the governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) in 2007.\n\nThe Gülen Movement's leader, Fethullah Gülen, managed to maintain a large number of supporters worldwide through the use of sympathetic media outlets, events, religious schools and charities. Several companies and organisations are affiliated with the movement, such as Samanyolu TV and Bank Asya. The movement is also supported by numerous political parties, mostly by the AKP between 2002 and 2013. Smaller parties such as the Democratic Progress Party and the Nation and Justice Party have also been accused of being sympathetic to Gülen's cause. The main opposition Republican People's Party was accused of maintaining informal links with the movement during the 2014 local elections. Independent ex-MPs, such as Hakan Şükür, are also seen as staunch followers of the movement.\n\nThe first signs of a conflict came in February 2012, where the request for the National Intelligence Organisation (MİT) undersecretary Hakan Fidan to give evidence regarding the promotion of several AKP politicians known to be close to the Gülen Movement. In response to these claims, AKP deputy leader Hüseyin Çelik claimed that 'crows would laugh' at allegations that the Gülen Movement had taken over the state.\n\nAfter environmentalists protests in Gezi Park, Taksim Square turned into general protests against government authoritarianism in June 2013, Gülen began making statements from Pennsylvania that were regarded as some to be critical of the government's perceived heavy handed response. These were seen as the first major signs that the alliance between the AKP and the Gülen Movement were waning. The government's response to the protestors were criticised internationally, with the United States condemning the disproportionate violence and the European Union stalling Turkey's accession negotiations.\n\nPrime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan refused to negotiate with protestors, calling them 'a handful of looters' and accusing several protestors of backing violent terrorist groups such as DHKP-C. In response, Gülen released a statement claiming that the future of a park was not worth a life, calling for both sides to end their respective struggles and negotiate in a peaceful manner.\n\nThe conflict between the AKP and the Gülen Movement was fully underway after the government proposed a new law that would force several private cram schools, many of which are owned by the Gülen Movement, to close. In response, the pro-Gülen media began a strong campaign against the government's proposals. The \"Zaman\" newspaper, which is the most prominent pro-Gulen newspaper in Turkey and also one of the most widely circulated, carried headlines such as \"<nowiki>'An educational coup'</nowiki>\" and \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>Such a law was never even seen in the coup years<nowiki>'</nowiki>\". Furthermore, the paper claimed that not even the employment sector wanted the colleges to be forcefully closed and also printed 1.5 million copies of a special edition accompanied by an additional brochure entitled 'Cram School' \"(Dershane)\". In response to \"Zaman's\" campaign, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan reiterated that his cabinet had agreed to put the new legislation to Parliament in November 2013. Ekrem Dumanlı, the general circulation manager of \"Zaman\", wrote an open letter to Erdoğan in his column on 25 November 2013. On the same day, Fethullah Gülen himself released a statement entitled 'We will go on without stopping!'.\n\nThe law received parliamentary approval in February 2014 and took effect a year later in February 2015.\n\nWhile the controversy was ongoing, editor Mehmet Baransu from the \"Taraf\" newspaper wrote an article on 28 November 2013 claiming that the decision to bring down the Gülen Movement had in fact been taken during a National Security Council (MGK) meeting in 2004. The article claimed that the formal decision to end the movement's political influence had been signed in August 2004 by both Prime Minister Erdoğan and President Abdullah Gül. Erdoğan's chief advisor Yalçın Akdoğan denied the claims, but his denial failed to convince the pro-Gulen media. Samanyolu TV alleged that a decision for the National Intelligence Organisation to maintain surveillance on individuals was included in the leaked documents.\n\nIn response to the leaking of MGK documents, Prime Minister Erdoğan made a statement reiterating his decision to abolish cram schools, while slamming the leak as an act of national treason.\n\nThe cram school crisis created a split within the AKP's parliamentary group, with pro-Gulen MPs openly voicing their concern over the new educational legislation. These included İdris Bal, who vocally criticised his party's policy on cram schools and was subsequently referred to the party's disciplinary board for suspension. In statements made to the press, Bal had claimed that closing cram schools would mean many youths would be unable to make it to university. When his imminent suspension became certain, Bal resigned from the AKP. He later formed the Democratic Progress Party (DGP) in November 2014, with many media outlets describing the party as the party of the Gulen Movement. Before the June 2015 general election however, Bal resigned as the leader of his new party, accusing the pro-Gulen media of limiting his party's ability to reach out to voters. This cast doubt over initial claims that the DGP was a pro-Gulen political party.\n\nAnother key resignation was that of Hakan Şükür in December 2013, who is openly a follower of Gulen and strongly critical of his party's cram school policy. Şükür revealed after his resignation that he had been to visit Gulen on numerous occasions while still an AKP Member of Parliament, telling Gulen that he wanted to resign from his party. He claimed that Gulen had delayed his decision.\n\nOn 17 December 2013, a wave of arrests targeting businessmen, bankers and most notably the sons of four serving cabinet ministers in Erdoğan's government were arrested during an anti-corruption operation. The allegations that a banknote counting machine had been found in serving Interior Minister Muammer Güler's son's house, as well as the revelation that large amounts of money had been hidden in shoe boxes in the house of the CEO of Halkbank caused a media storm. A total of 80 people were arrested, with 24 formally charged.\n\nFollowing the anti-corruption operations, Deputy Prime Minister Bülent Arınç issued a statement saying that the government knew who was behind the operations and that any intervention of a group within the governance of the state would be dealt with accordingly. Erdoğan called the arrests a 'dirty operation'.\n\nOn the same day as the operation, five branch managers from the Istanbul Directorate of Security were removed from their posts. Two new prosecutors, Ekrem Aydıner and Mustafa Erol, were assigned to deal with the corruption cases, alongside the existing two prosecutors Celal Kara and Mehmet Yüzgeç due to the extensiveness of the case. Kara and Yüzgeç, the two existing prosecutors, were late removed from the case. Mustafa Erol later resigned from the case. The entire corruption investigation was subsequently dealt by a single prosecutor, namely Ekrem Aydıner. The fact that only one prosecutor was now presiding over a case where two prosecutors had originally been assigned due to a heavy workload led to allegations that Aydıner was acting on the in favour of the government's demands.\n\nFollowing the operation, the government branded the investigation as a 'planned psychological attack', 'an illegal group within the state' and 'dirty games being played within and outside the Turkish state'. While the government did not name the Gulen Movement specifically, Gulen recorded a message full of religious imprecations. Most media and political commentators claimed that the government's accusations were clearly directed at either the Gulen Movement, or a segment within the Gulen Movement. The movement had by now been branded a 'parallel structure' operating within the state.\n\nThe three ministers that were incriminated in the corruption scandal, namely Zafer Çağlayan, Erdoğan Bayraktar and Muammer Güler, resigned from their cabinet ministers. Having also been mentioned in the corruption investigations, Egemen Bağış also lost his position in the ensuring reshuffle. Bayraktar called for the Prime Minister to resign to ease the political tensions that had resulted from the corruption scandal, though later apologised for his statement.\n\nAs a result of his party's perceived corruption, former Interior minister İdris Naim Şahin resigned from his party and called for the Prime Minister to resign. Şahin later established the Nation and Justice Party (MİLAD Party) in November 2014, with this party also being branded as pro-Gulen by media outlets close to the AKP. Şahin, like former DGP leader İdris Bal, resigned from his party before the 2015 general election after failing to seal an alliance deal with the Felicity Party and the Great Union Party.\n\nOn 27 December 2015, Ertuğrul Günay, Haluk Özdalga and Erdal Kalkan all resigned from the AKP.\n\nRealising that the ministers involved in the 17 December operations did not initially know that investigations had begun into them, the government made it compulsory for such investigations to be reported to the most senior officials in government. The Supreme Board of Judges and Prosecutors (HSYK) ruled this requirement unconstitutional.\n\nOn 25 December, the same day that the HSYK ruled that the government's demands were unconstitutional, prosecutor Muammer Akkaş issued an arrest warrant for 30 more individuals on charges of corruption, yet the Istanbul Directorate of Security refused to make the arrests. As a result, Akkaş issued a statement claiming that he was being prevented from doing his job. The government responded by accusing Akkaş of attempting to begin a second operation through unlawful means, thus taking him off the case and allegedly giving it to prosecutor Turan Çolakkadı. In the end, the case was transferred to five other prosecutors.\n\nOn 26 December, Prime Minister Erdoğan claimed that Akkaş had disgraced the judiciary by issuing such a statement and claimed that the HSYK had committed a crime by refusing the government's demands to notify senior ministers of investigations. He claimed that had he had the right, he would have 'tried' the HSYK himself, but claimed that the people would have the right to judge. A day later, the Turkish Council of State voted down the government's demands, with Erdoğan subsequently issuing a statement saying 'what needs to be done will be done, and then you will see' and claiming that the judicial changes proposed in the 2010 constitutional referendum had been a mistake. Several pro-government ministers claimed that the judicial setback was the last open attack against the AKP by the Gulen Movement.\n\nA new law that would bring the HSYK directly under the control of the Ministry of Justice was passed on 1 February 2014 despite several breakouts of violence between government and opposition MPs.\n\nOn 31 December, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, who was later himself accused of being a supporter of Gulen, claimed that the events of 17 December 2013 had been a mini-coup attempt. An intelligence report for the Prime Minister was leaked on the same day, with claims that the 'parallel structure' had branches in 27 provinces and had over 2,000 police officers and several academics, journalists and bankers under its control.\n\nPresident Abdullah Gül issued a statement on 4 January 2014 claiming that a state within a state was 'absolutely unacceptable'. Erdoğan claimed that the corruption scandal had been an attempt to tarnish the AKP's image, to worsen his relations with President Gül, to sabotage the ongoing solution process with Kurdish rebels and to stop Turkey's growth.\n\nA new spate of anti-corruption operations began on 7 January, in provinces such as İzmir, Amasya and İstanbul. These operations were mocked by the pro-AKP media.\n\nOn 1 January, lorries allegedly carrying weapons and bound for Syria were stopped in Adana, while a similar convoy of lorries were stopped on 19 June in Hatay. The prosecutor Aziz Takçı, who ordered the lorries to be stopped and searched for weapons after receiving a tip-off, was later removed from his position and branded as a member of Gulen's 'parallel structure'. The government attempted to cover up the lorries' cargo and to stop the searching of their contents on both occasions, with it becoming apparent that they belonged to the National Intelligence Organisation (MİT). The accusation that MİT lorries were carrying weapons into Syria created yet another scandal, especially at a time when the government in the centre of international controversy for their policy of inaction against Islamic State militants. Erdoğan stated that the contents of the lorries were a national secret, but later claimed that they had been carrying humanitarian aid to the Turkmen population in Syria. He branded the prosecutor and gendarmerie troops involved in the search of the lorries as parallel structure sympathisers and many were subsequently arrested.\n\nWithin 35 days of the 17 December anti-corruption operations, 5,000 police officers had been designated to positions elsewhere in the Directorate of Security. Interior Minister Efkan Ala made a live statement claiming that 1,000 officers had been moved to new positions and 5,000 officers had been moved in a routine procedure. He claimed that this was a small percentage of re-designations compared to the total workforce of 260,000 officers.\n\nAs changes to the HSYK were being debated in Parliament, several members of the HSYK that openly criticised the new legislation were removed from their posts. In the Istanbul Çağlayan Justice Palace, there was an overhaul of staff, with 90 out of 192 prosecutors being reassigned from their original positions. Prosecutors dealing with the sledgehammer and Ergenekon trials were also involved in the mass overhaul. The prosecutors dealing with the 17 December operations were removed from their positions entirely. Erdoğan later made a speech alleging that the Gülen Movement had taken over the judiciary and claimed that they had made a mistake in pushing for constitutional changes in the 2010 referendum. He further claimed that the HSYK had allowed phones to be wiretapped at will, which was why the government had put forward such significant reforms.\n\nThe government also abolished courts with special privileges \"(özel yetkili mahkemeler, ÖYM)\" as part of a democratisation package.\n\nBesides tightening control over the judiciary, the government brought forward a new law that gave significant new powers to the National Intelligence Organisation (MİT). The new law would give the Council of Ministers the right to assign duties to MİT operatives on issues of counter-terrorism, national or external security. The term 'national security' raised the most concern due to its vagueness, meaning that a minister could potentially assign the MİT to conduct an operation against any political party, group, organisation or institution simply by claiming that they were a national security threat.\n\nThe new law also gave the MİT the power to confiscate or demand access to any form of information, material or equipment contained by an organisation by overriding any other laws protecting privacy. Furthermore, leaking MİT documents was made a new crime, with long jail terms imposed on individuals who disclose information on the MİT's activities. The MİT was also given the right to conduct unlimited surveillance and a legal ground was instituted for talks between the MİT and imprisoned PKK leader Abdullah Öcalan.\n\nThe government passed a new controversial internet censorship law in 2014 that gave the Presidency of Telecommunication and Communication (TİB) to block websites without court authorisation should they reveal private or 'insulting' content. The law also made censorship much easier while also forcing websites to keep data of their users for a prolonged period of time and to disclose such information should the TİB require it. The new law was described as an open attack on social media due to the strengthening of existing censorship laws, with the lack of checks and balances on the TİB's decisions also being criticised. Social media had a significant impact on the Gezi Park protests and the organisation of other anti-government demonstrations.\n\nA week before the 2014 local elections, \"Twitter\" and \"YouTube\" were blocked using the new powers given to the TİB.\n\nThe Sledgehammer and Ergenekon cases were brought forward, allegedly as a joint effort between the AKP and Gulen Movement, in 2007 against critics of the AKP that threatened the party's hold on power. Such individuals included several military officers and journalists, including former Chief of General Staff Çetin Doğan. The cases were both riddled with claims of irregularities, though many defendants were either sentenced to life in prison for attempting a coup or charged while in jail.\n\nIn February 2014, a law limited the time in which an accused could be imprisoned while formally charged to five years, meaning several Sledgehammer or Ergenekon defendants were released. An Istanbul court ordered the release of 230 people after ruling that their rights had been breached. In 2015, Erdoğan claimed that the entire country had been misled and deceived during the Sledgehammer case.\n\nOn the evening of 25 February 2014, a recording was posted on YouTube allegedly featuring Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan telling his son Necmettin Bilal Erdoğan to 'nullify' all the cash kept in their home due to the ongoing operations occurring in other government ministers' homes. The Prime Minister called the tape a 'dastardly, shameless and nasty montage', adding that there was nothing that he could not give a justification to. He claimed that the perpetrators behind the montage were members of the parallel structure (i.e. the Gulen Movement) and committed to beginning legal proceedings into the recording, as well as proving that it was a forgery.\n\nThe recording was broadcast in Parliament by opposition leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, who claimed that new revelations would emerge in the following days and called for the Prime Minister to 'grab a helicopter and flee the country or resign'. Legal proceedings began into Kılıçdaroğlu for broadcasting the recording to Parliament, with him being accused of acquiring the recording through illegal methods. Despite the investigation later being abandoned, the court decided to restart the case in June 2015. The MHP leader Devlet Bahçeli claimed that the tapes put minds into shock, adding that the unjustifiable recording would go down in Turkish history as a disgrace.\n\nDespite claiming that the recordings were forged and vowing to bring forward evidence to prove this to be true, the government failed to bring forward proof in the first few days after a recording. The pro-government newspaper \"Star\" claimed that the government had received a report from an American company (John Marshall Media) confirming the recording to be a fake. However, the company CEO later took to Facebook stating that they did deal with legal verifications of tape recordings and stated that the report bearing their company name was a fake, announcing that they would look into possible legal action into their brand name being used unlawfully.\n\nThe main institution the government turned to for a report confirming the forgery was the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK), which examined the recording but failed to produce any proof that it was a fake. As a result, six TÜBİTAK experts at were fired in late February, with Minister Fikri Işık accusing them of supporting Gülen and accusing the parallel structure in general of infiltrating TÜBİTAK. In June 2014, TÜBİTAK eventually produced a report confirming the recordings to be a fake, though the report was found to be unconvincing and 'funny' by some vocal experts. The CHP claimed that the technology that TÜBİTAK had used (syllable analysis) to produce their report did not actually exist, taking the issue to Parliament.\n\nEnergy and Natural Resources Minister Taner Yıldız claimed that the recording had been made for an Islamist organisation called 'Selam'. Pro government newspapers \"Sabah\", \"Star\" and \"Yeni Şafak\" accused the parallel structure of wiretapping 20,000, 2,280 and 7,000 people respectively. Their estimates widely increased in the following days, with \"Yeni Şafak\" claiming that the true number was above 100,000. The Presidency of Telecommunication and Communication (TİB) stated in March that 509,000 phones had been wiretapped between 2012 and 2013, though the TİB only had court warrants to wiretap 217,863 phones.\n\nThe former Vice President of TÜBİTAK, Hasan Palaz, and two other former TÜBİTAK workers were arrested for alleged wiretapping of the Prime Ministry, though Palaz was later released. The Vice President of the TİB Osman Nihat Şen was also arrested. A total of 26 people were arrested on charges of wiretapping and spying, including five police officers.\n\nThe local elections on 30 March 2014 was the first election since the conflict began, with the AKP facing a serious test of confidence following the corruption charges. With 42.87% of the vote, the AKP won the elections with a significant proportion of councillors and mayors up for election. The CHP, hoping for a large boost in their vote share after running a fierce anti-corruption campaign, won just 26.34% of the vote (only 0.36% up from their 2011 election result). Many opposition members alleged widespread electoral fraud, especially in Ankara and Antalya, with electricity cuts and provocations during vote counting causing heavy controversy.\n\nIn a balcony speech declaring the AKP's victory, Erdoğan claimed that the population had given him a mandate to continue his fight against the parallel structure. He further stated that the parallel structure's treachery would not be forgotten and that he had been a victim of his own good intentions, which was a perceived reference to the AKP's traditionally cosy relationship with Gulen. Finally, Erdoğan pledged to have Gulen's sympathisers tried before the people and not the courts that they had 'infiltrated'.\n\nWith numerous prosecutors, soldiers, police officers and journalists known to be close to the Gulen Movement being arrested on charges of 'setting up an armed terrorist group', accusations of terrorism against the Movement have increased. A retired judge and a defendant during the Sledgehammer case, Ahmet Zeki Üçok claimed that the parallel structure had formed a terrorist cell named 'Ötüken'. It was claimed alleged that the cell had played a part in the assassination of Hrant Dink, the Zirve Publishing House massacre, the Turkish Council of State shooting and civil unrest in the Gezi Park protests. A journalist from \"Akşam\", the newspaper in which the allegations had been made, resigned.\n\nThe conflict has caused widespread controversy both politically and internationally, mainly revolving around Erdoğan's political polarising response and the uncertainty of the future of Turkish judicial independence.\n\nThe Republican People's Party (CHP), which forms the main opposition, was heavily critical of the government for their reforms to the judiciary and the corruption scandal. It was perceived by some that the newspaper \"Zaman\" had begun implicitly supporting the CHP in order to sustain the Gulen Movement's influence in politics and parliament. After opposition MPs began receiving letters from Gulen's supporters urging them to oppose the cram school law, the CHP took the law closing the schools to court. After the 2013 corruption scandal, the CHP strongly condemned the government and called for Erdoğan's resignation, to which the Prime Minister responded by accusing CHP leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu of collaborating with Gulen. The CHP also accused the government of violating the independence of the judiciary with their reforms following the scandal. During the 2014 local election campaign, the CHP took a strong anti-corruption stance while the AKP accused the CHP of being pro-Gulen. The CHP's former spokesperson Birgül Ayman Güler resigned after accusing her party of allying itself with the Gulen Movement. The CHP has also defended imprisoned \"Zaman\" journalists and have visited them in prison, while also coming out in support for Bank Asya during the government's attempt to shut it down. These actions fuelled accusations that the CHP had now become the party of the Gulen Movement. Allegedly expecting many Gulen-supporting AKP voters to defect during the local elections, the CHP only won 26.34%, an increase of just 0.36% since the 2011 general election. However, the CHP has been historically heavily critical of the Gulen Movement, having been strongly against the judicial misconduct during the Sledgehammer and Ergenekon trials. Many Sledgehammer and Ergenekon defendants such as Mustafa Balbay are now CHP MPs, having been elected in an attempt to free them from prison.\n\nConcerns have been raised by the US Congress, the European Union and several other human rights groups over the Turkish government's tightening control over the judiciary, as well as increased government censorship of social media. In January 2014, the EU issued a call for Turkey to preserve press freedom and judicial independence, criticising the large-scale reorganisation of judges and the censorship of social media networks. In January 2015, the EU Enlargement Commissioner Štefan Füle called on Ankara to restore judicial independence in order to make progress in its accession negotiations.\n\nThe United States Congress has urged Secretary of State John Kerry to push Turkey for a free press after the raids on pro-Gulen newspapers that saw the arrest of Samanyolu TV director and \"Zaman\" editor-in-chief Ekrem Dumanlı. Following the police raids on pro-Gulen media, the US Congress condemned Turkey for an \"assault on democracy\".\n\nIn 2016 a faction within the military loyal not to the state, but to Fethullah Gülen, allegedly tried to overthrow the Turkish government. 249 Turks were killed resisting the coup.\n\nIn rebuttal of these attempted-coup allegations, the London-based Hizmet Centre, a Gulen-movement source, said that Gulen had remarked within a speech broadcast August 13, 2017 \"about a rumour of a plot, that some important public figures will be assassinated in Turkey, and the blame will be put on the members of the Hizmet [Gulen] movement. Gulen’s message...was allegedly distorted by pro-Erdogan and anti-Gulen media circles as 'an order of assassination to his followers'\". \n\nTurkey’s Justice Ministry said on July 13 that 50,510 people have been arrested and 169,013 have been charged with complicity with the coup attempt. Many of those arrested or charged and are associated with the Gulen movement. The government has charged people merely associated with the Gulen movement through such means as possession of an account with Bank Asya, a Gulen-movement affiliated bank, or subscribing to \"Zaman\", a Gulen-movement affiliated newspaper.\n\n"}
{"id": "14175538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14175538", "title": "Voice of God", "text": "Voice of God\n\nIn Judaism and Christianity, the voice of God (, \"bat kol\" or \"bat ḳōl\", literally \"daughter of voice\"; Latin: \"vox dei\") is a \"heavenly or divine voice which proclaims God's will or judgment.\" It is \"identified with the Holy Spirit, even with God; but it differed essentially from the Prophets, though these spoke as the medium of the Holy Spirit.\"\n\nThe characteristic attributes of the voice of God are the invisibility of the speaker and a certain remarkable quality in the sound, regardless of its strength or weakness. A sound proceeding from some invisible source was considered a heavenly voice, since the revelation on Sinai was given in that way in Deuteronomy 4:12: \"Ye heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude; only ye heard a voice\". In this account, God reveals himself to man through his organs of hearing, not through those of sight. Even the prophet Ezekiel, who sees many visions, \"heard a voice of one that spake\" (Ezek 1:28); similarly, Elijah recognized God by a \"still, small voice,\" and a voice addressed him (I Kings 19:12–13; compare Job 4:16); sometimes God's voice rang from the heights, from Jerusalem, from Zion (Ezek. 1:25; Jer 25:30; Joel 3:16–17; Amos 1:2, etc.); and God's voice was heard in the thunder and in the roar of the sea.\n\nThe concept appears in :\n\nIn Jewish art the \"Bat Ḳol\" was often represented by the Hand of God, as in the Synagogue of Dura-Europas, which Christian art also adopted for the relevant New Testament scenes.\n\nIn the New Testament mention of “a voice from heaven” occurs in the following passages: ; ; (at the baptism of Jesus); ; ; (at the transfiguration); (shortly before the Passion); ; ; (conversion of Paul), and , (instruction of Peter concerning the clean and unclean). In the period of the Tannaim (circa 100 BCE-200 CE) the term \"bath ḳōl\" was in very frequent use and was understood to signify not the direct voice of God, which was held to be supersensible, but the echo of the voice (the \"bath\" being somewhat arbitrarily taken to express the distinction). The rabbis held that \"bath ḳōl\" had been an occasional means of divine communication throughout the whole history of Israel and that since the cessation of the prophetic gift it was the sole means of Divine revelation. It is noteworthy that the rabbinical conception of \"bath ḳōl\" sprang up in the period of the decline of Old Testament prophecy and flourished in the period of extreme traditionalism. Where the gift of prophecy was believed to be lacking – perhaps even because of this lack – there grew up an inordinate desire for special divine manifestations. Often a voice from heaven was looked for to clear up matters of doubt and even to decide between conflicting interpretations of the law. So strong had this tendency become that Rabbi Joshua (\"c\". 100 CE) felt it to be necessary to oppose it and to insist upon the supremacy and the sufficiency of the written law.\n\nIt is clear that we have here to do with a conception of the nature and means of divine revelation that is distinctly inferior to the Biblical view. For even in the Biblical passages where mention is made of the voice from heaven, all that is really essential to the revelation is already present, at least in principle, without the audible voice.\n\nJosephus (Ant., XIII, x, 3) relates that John Hyrcanus (135–104 BCE) heard a voice while offering a burnt sacrifice in the temple, which Josephus expressly interprets as the voice of God.\n\nChristian scholars interpreted Bath Kol as the Jews' replacement for the great prophets when, \"after the death of Malachi, the spirit of prophecy wholly ceased in Israel\" (taking the name to refer to its being \"the daughter\" of the main prophetic \"voice\").\n\nThe generic term \"voice of God\" is commonly used in theatrical productions and staging, and refers to any anonymous, disembodied voice used to deliver general messages to the audience. Examples may include speaker introductions, audience directions and performer substitutions.\n\nThe origin of the \"Voice of God\" narration style was most probably in Time Inc's \"March of Time\" news-radio and news-film series, for which Orson Welles was an occasional voice-over actor, and was subsequently duplicated in Welles' \"Citizen Kane\" \"News On The March\" sequence (the first reel of the film), much to the delight of Henry R. Luce, Time's president.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47391730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47391730", "title": "Yazidis in France", "text": "Yazidis in France\n\nYazidis in France may refer to people born in or residing in France of full or partial Yazidi origin.\n\n"}
