{"id": "1112531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1112531", "title": "African philosophy", "text": "African philosophy\n\nAfrican philosophy is philosophy produced by African people, philosophy that presents African worldviews, or philosophy that uses distinct African philosophical methods. African philosophers may be found in the various academic fields of philosophy, such as metaphysics, epistemology, moral philosophy, and political philosophy. African philosophy can also be defined as any epistemic endeavor that attempts to understand the world from an African perspective. It is therefore not just about Africa but about the world even if the location of the subject is Africa.\n\nMuch of modern African philosophy has been concerned with defining the ethnophilosophical parameters of African philosophy and identifying what differentiates it from other philosophical traditions. One of the implicit assumptions of ethnophilosophy is that a specific culture can have a philosophy that is not applicable and accessible to all peoples and cultures in the world, however this concept is disputed by traditional philosophers.\nFurthermore, in \"A Discourse on African Philosophy: A New Perspective on\" Ubuntu \"and Transitional Justice in South Africa\", Christian B. N. Gade argues that the ethnophilosophical approach to African philosophy as a static group property is highly problematic. His research on \"ubuntu\" presents an alternative collective discourse on African philosophy (\"collective\" in the sense that it does not focus on any individual in particular) that takes differences, historical developments, and social contexts seriously. \n\nThe Nigerian philosopher Uzodinma Nwala, prior to his employment to teach at UNN, said that there was no African philosophy available as a course of study in universities. \"All we were taught as students were Western philosophy. Nothing like African philosophy existed anywhere. In fact, many years after the introduction of the courses, there still remained arguments among experts, whether there was really African Philosophy\". He was awarded the Aimé Césaire award in 2013 at the University of Abuja for his work.\n\nAfrican philosophy can be formally defined as a critical thinking by Africans on their experiences of reality. Nigerian born Philosopher K.C. Anyanwu defined African philosophy as \"that which concerns itself with the way in which African people of the past and present make sense of their destiny and of the world in which they live.\" In this regard, African philosophy is a critical reflection on African leaderships in the administration of their duties towards their citizens; the morally blameworthiness or praiseworthiness of it. It will also provide possible solutions to the problems experienced in African governance. \n\nOne of the most basic disagreements concerns what exactly the term 'African' qualifies: the content of the philosophy and the distinctive methods employed, or the identities of the philosophers. On the former view, philosophy counts as African if it involves African themes such as perceptions of time, personhood, space and other subjects, or uses methods that are defined as distinctively African. In the latter view, African philosophy is any philosophy produced by Africans or by people of African descent, and others engaged in critiques or analysis of their works.\n\nNigerian philosopher Joseph I. Omoregbe broadly defines a philosopher as one who attempts to understand the world's phenomena, the purpose of human existence, the nature of the world, and the place of human beings in that world. This form of natural philosophy is identifiable in Africa even before individual African philosophers can be distinguished in the sources.\n\nPhilosophy in Africa has a rich and varied history, dating at least as far back to the ancient Egyptian philosophy identified in pre-dynastic Egyptian thought and culture, and continuing through the development of the major regional philosophical traditions of North Africa, West Africa, Central Africa, and the Horn of Africa.\n\nIn the early and mid-twentieth century, anti-colonial movements had a tremendous effect on the development of a distinct African political philosophy that had resonance on both the continent and in the African diaspora. There was also notable engagement in the pre-colonial and early post-colonial era with the Marxist and Communist philosophical traditions developing throughout the twentieth century, resulting in the flourishing of a distinctive African economic philosophical tradition. One well-known example of the economic philosophical works emerging from this period was the African socialist philosophy of Ujamaa propounded in Tanzania and other parts of Southeast Africa. These African political and economic philosophical developments also had a notable impact on the anti-colonial movements of many non-African peoples around the world.\n\nIn North Africa, arguably central to the development of the ancient Egyptian philosophical tradition of Egypt and Sudan was the conception of \"ma'at\", which roughly translated refers to \"justice\", \"truth\", or simply \"that which is right\". One of the earliest works of political philosophy was The Maxims of Ptahhotep, which were taught to Egyptian schoolboys for centuries.\n\nAncient Egyptian philosophers also made important contributions to Hellenistic philosophy and Christian philosophy. In the Hellenistic tradition, the influential philosophical school of Neoplatonism was founded by the Egyptian philosopher Plotinus in the 3rd century CE.\n\nIn the Christian tradition, Augustine of Hippo was a cornerstone of Christian philosophy and theology. He lived from 354 to 430 CE, and wrote his best-known work, \"The City of God\", in Hippo Regius (now Annaba, Algeria). He challenged a number of ideas of his age including Arianism, and established the notions of original sin and divine grace in Christian philosophy and theology.\n\nIn the Islamic tradition, Ibn Bajjah philosophized along neo-Platonist lines in the 12th century C.E. The purpose of human life, according to Bajja, was to gain true happiness, and true happiness is attained by grasping the universals through reason and philosophy, often outside the framework of organized religion.\n\nIbn Rushd philosophised along more Aristotelian lines, establishing the philosophical school of Averroism. Notably, he argued that there was no conflict between religion and philosophy, and instead that there are a variety of routes to God, all equally valid, and that the philosopher was free to take the route of reason while the commoners were unable to take that route, and only able to take the route of teachings passed on to them.\n\nIbn Sab'in challenged the above view, arguing that Aristotelian methods of philosophy were useless in attempting to understand the universe, because those ideas failed to mirror the basic unity of the universe with itself and with God, so that true understanding required a different method of reasoning.\n\nThe most prominent of West Africa's pre-modern philosophical traditions has been identified as that of the Yoruba philosophical tradition and the distinctive worldview that emerged from it over the thousands of years of its development. Philosophical concepts such as Omoluabi were integral to this system, and the totality of its elements are contained in what is known amongst the Yoruba as the Itan. The cosmologies and philosophies of the Akan, Dogon and Dahomey were also significant.\n\nHistorically the West African philosophical traditions have had a significant impact on Islamic philosophy as a whole as much of the Islamic philosophical tradition was subject to the influence of scholars born or working in the African continent in centres of learning such as Djenne and Timbuktu in Mali. Many of these intellectuals and scholars created a philosophical tradition in these cities.\n\nIn the Horn of Africa, there are a number of sources documenting the development of a distinct Ethiopian philosophy from the first millennium onwards. Among the most notable examples from this tradition emerge from the work of the 17th-century philosopher Zera Yacob, and that of his disciples.\n\nIn Southern Africa and Southeast Africa the development of a distinctive Bantu philosophy addressing the nature of existence, the cosmos and humankind's relation to the world following the Bantu migration has had the most significant impact on the philosophical developments of the said regions, with the development of the philosophy of Ubuntu as one notable example emerging from this worldview.\n\nMany Central African philosophical traditions before the Bantu migration into southern Central Africa have been identified as a uniting characteristic of many Nilotic and Sudanic peoples, ultimately giving rise to the distinctive worldviews identified in the conceptions of time, the creation of the world, human nature, and the proper relationship between mankind and nature prevalent in Dinka mythology, Maasai mythology and similar traditions.\n\nSome pre-Modern African diasporic philosophical traditions have also been identified, mostly produced by descendants of Africans in Europe and the Americas. One notable pre-modern diasporic African philosopher was Anthony William Amo, who was taken as a slave from Awukenu in what is now Ghana, and was brought up and educated in Europe where he gained doctorates in medicine and philosophy, and subsequently became a professor of philosophy at the universities of Halle Halle and Jena in Germany.\n\nKenyan philosopher Henry Odera Oruka has distinguished what he calls four trends in modern African philosophy: ethnophilosophy, philosophical sagacity, nationalistic–ideological philosophy, and professional philosophy. In fact it would be more realistic to call them candidates for the position of African philosophy, with the understanding that more than one of them might fit the bill. (Oruka later added two additional categories: literary/artistic philosophy, such as the work of literary figures such as Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o, Wole Soyinka, Chinua Achebe, Okot p'Bitek, and Taban Lo Liyong, and hermeneutic philosophy, the analysis of African languages in order to find philosophical content.) In the African diaspora, American philosopher Maulana Karenga has also been notable in presenting varied definitions for understanding modern African philosophy, especially as it relates to its earliest sources.\n\nEthnophilosophy has been used to record the beliefs found in African cultures. Such an approach treats African philosophy as consisting in a set of shared beliefs, values, categories, and assumptions that are implicit in the language, practices, and beliefs of African cultures; in short, the uniquely African worldview. As such, it is seen as an item of communal property rather than an activity for the individual.\n\nOne proponent of this form, Placide Tempels, argued in \"Bantu Philosophy\" that the metaphysical categories of the Bantu people are reflected in their linguistic categories. According to this view, African philosophy can be best understood as springing from the fundamental assumptions about reality reflected in the languages of Africa.\n\nAnother example of this sort of approach is the work of E. J. Algoa of the University of Port Harcourt in Nigeria, who argues for the existence of an African philosophy of history stemming from traditional proverbs from the Niger Delta in his paper \"An African Philosophy of History in the Oral Tradition.\" Algoa argues that in African philosophy, age is seen as an important factor in gaining wisdom and interpreting the past. In support of this view, he cites proverbs such as \"More days, more wisdom\", and \"What an old man sees seated, a youth does not see standing.\" Truth is seen as eternal and unchanging (\"Truth never rots\"), but people are subject to error (\"Even a four-legged horse stumbles and falls\"). It is dangerous to judge by appearances (\"A large eye does not mean keen vision\"), but first-hand observation can be trusted (\"He who sees does not err\"). The past is not seen as fundamentally different from the present, but all history is contemporary history (\"A storyteller does not tell of a different season\"). The future remains beyond knowledge (\"Even a bird with a long neck cannot see the future\"). Nevertheless, it is said, \"God will outlive eternity.\" History is seen as vitally important (\"One ignorant of his origin is nonhuman\"), and historians (known as \"sons of the soil\") are highly revered (\"The son of the soil has the python's keen eyes\"). However, these arguments must be taken with a grain of cultural relativism, as the span of culture in Africa is incredibly vast, with patriarchies, matriarchies, monotheists and traditional religionists among the population, and as such the attitudes of groups of the Niger Delta cannot be construed to the whole of Africa.\n\nAnother more controversial application of this approach is embodied in the concept of Negritude. Leopold Senghor, a proponent of Negritude, argued that the distinctly African approach to reality is based on emotion rather than logic, works itself out in participation rather than analysis, and manifests itself through the arts rather than the sciences. Cheikh Anta Diop and Mubabinge Bilolo, on the other hand, while agreeing that African culture is unique, challenged the view of Africans as essentially emotional and artistic, arguing that Egypt was an African culture whose achievements in science, mathematics, architecture, and philosophy were pre-eminent. This philosophy may also be maligned as overly reductionist due to the obvious scientific and scholarly triumphs of not only ancient Egypt, but also Nubia, Meroe, as well as the great library of Timbuktu, the extensive trade networks and kingdoms of North Africa, West Africa, Central Africa, the Horn of Africa and Great Zimbabwe and the other major empires of Southern, Southeast and Central Africa.\n\nCritics of this approach argue that the actual philosophical work in producing a coherent philosophical position is being done by the academic philosopher (such as Algoa), and that the sayings of the same culture can be selected from and organised in many different ways in order to produce very different, often contradictory systems of thought.\n\nPhilosophical sagacity is a sort of individualist version of ethnophilosophy, in which one records the beliefs of certain special members of a community. The premise here is that, although most societies demand some degree of conformity of belief and behaviour from their members, a certain few of those members reach a particularly high level of knowledge and understanding of their cultures' worldviews; such people are sages. In some cases, the sage goes beyond mere knowledge and understanding to reflection and questioning—these become the targets of philosophical sagacity.\n\nCritics of this approach note that not all reflection and questioning is philosophical; besides, if African philosophy were to be defined purely in terms of philosophic sagacity, then the thoughts of the sages could not be African philosophy, for they did not record them from other sages. Also, on this view the only difference between non-African anthropology or ethnology and African philosophy seems to be the nationality of the researcher.\n\nCritics argue further that the problem with both ethnophilosophy and philosophical sagacity is that there is surely an important distinction between philosophy and the history of ideas, although other philosophers consider the two topics to be remarkably similar. The argument is that no matter how interesting the beliefs of a people such as the Akan or the Yoruba may be to the philosopher, they remain beliefs, not philosophy. To call them philosophy is to use a secondary sense of that term, such as in \"my philosophy is live and let live.\n\nProfessional philosophy is usually identified as that produced by African philosophers trained in the Western philosophical tradition, that embraces a universal view of the methods and concerns of philosophy. Those philosophers identified in this category often explicitly reject the assumptions of ethnophilosophy and adopt a universalist worldview of philosophy that requires all philosophy to be accessible and applicable to all peoples and cultures in the world This is even if the specific philosophical questions prioritized by individual national or regional philosophies may differ. Some African philosophers classified in this category are Paulin Hountondji, Peter Bodunrin, Kwasi Wiredu, Tsenay Serequeberhan, Marcien Towa and Lansana Keita.\n\nNationalist and ideological philosophy might be considered a special case of philosophic sagacity, in which not sages but ideologues are the subjects. Alternatively, it has been considered as a subcategory of professional political philosophy. In either case, the same sort of problem arises with retaining a distinction between ideology and philosophy, and also between sets of ideas and a special way of reasoning. Examples include African socialism, Nkrumaism, Harambee and Authenticite\n\nAlthough Africa is extremely diverse, there appear to be some shared moral ideas across many ethnic groups. In a number of African cultures, ethics is centered on a person's character, and saying \"he has no morals\" translates as something like \"he has no character\". A person's character reflects the accumulation of her deeds and her habits of conduct; hence, it can be changed over a person's life. In some African cultures, \"personhood\" refers to an adult human who exhibits moral virtues, and one who behaves badly is not considered a person, even if he is considered a human.\n\nWhile many traditional African societies are highly religious, their religions are not revealed, and hence, ethics does not center around divine commands. Instead, ethics is humanistic and utilitarian: it focuses on improving social functioning and human flourishing. On the other hand, social welfare is not a mere aggregate of individual welfare; rather, there is a collective \"social good\" embodying values that everyone wants, like peace and stability. In general, African ethics is social or collectivistic rather than individualistic and united in ideology. Cooperation and altruism are considered crucial. African ethics places more weight on duties of prosocial behaviour than on rights per se, in contrast to most of Western ethics.\n\nAfricana philosophy is the work of philosophers of African descent and others whose work deals with the subject matter of the African diaspora. \n\nAfricana philosophy includes the philosophical ideas, arguments and theories of particular concern to people of African descent. Some of the topics explored by Africana philosophy include: pre-Socratic African philosophy and modern day debates discussing the early history of Western philosophy, post-colonial writing in Africa and the Americas, black resistance to oppression, black existentialism in the United States, and the meaning of \"blackness\" in the modern world.\n\nThis is a list of notable philosophers who theorize in the African tradition, as well as philosophers from the continent of Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45544765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45544765", "title": "Amelia Valcarcel", "text": "Amelia Valcarcel\n\nAmelia Valcarcel (November 16, 1950) is a Spanish philosopher and feminist. She is considered within the “philosophic feminism” as part of the “equality feminism” approach. In 2015 she is a Professor in Moral and Political Philosophy at the National University of Distance Education and since 2006 is member of the Spanish Council of State.\n\nValcárcel was born in Madrid. She studied Philosophy at the Universities of Oviedo and Valencia, in Spain.\n\nValcárcel worked at the University of Oviedo for three decades, before becoming Professor in Moral and Political Philosophy at the National University of Distance Education.\n\nShe has participated and organized numerous seminars and conferences in the fields of Philosophy, moral values and women’s rights. She has been also taken part in national and international panels and boards, as well as playing an advisory role at editorial and journal boards. She was the director of the magazine \"Leviatán\".\n\nValcárcel is actively engaged in public affairs in Spain. She has performed various public roles, including State Counsellor and Vice-President of the Real Patronage of the Museo del Prado. Between 1993 and 1995, she was Counsellor for Education, Culture, Sports and Youth in the regional government of Asturias.\n\nValcárcel’s academic life has been mainly devoted to two academic fields: philosophy and feminist studies.\n\nWithin the subject area of Feminist Philosophy, Valcárcel is considered to be part of the \"equality feminism\" approach. Her most distinctive contribution to the field of feminist thinking has been to place feminism within the canonic history of political philosophy, especially in her monograph \"Feminismo en el mundo global\" (2008). She has written several manuscripts, some of them translated into other languages. Her theoretical thinking is close to that of the equally well-known Spanish philosophers Celia Amorós and Victoria Camps.\n\nValcárcel takes the philosophical position that the nexus between women is not the nature or essence of themselves, opposite to the difference feminism arguments, it is however the patriarchal and hetero-designation, the role which patriarchal assigns to women (mother, daughter, espouse and prostitute…) and especially the role women occupy in society which has been depicted by men. Likewise, the role and common denominator that all women share is their functional status (submission) different from men.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16587636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16587636", "title": "Aref Ali Nayed", "text": "Aref Ali Nayed\n\nDr Aref Ali Nayed (Arabic: عارف علي النايض; born in 1962) is a Libyan Islamic scholar and the Libyan Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates. Nayed is the founder and director of Kalam Research & Media (KRM), based in Tripoli, Libya and Dubai. Until the outbreak of the revolution in Libya, he lectured on Islamic theology, logic, and spirituality at the restored Uthman Pasha Madrassa in Tripoli, and supervised graduate students at the Islamic Call College there.\n\nBefore the liberation of Tripoli in 2011, he was appointed by the National Transitional Council as the coordinator of the Tripoli Taskforce. When Tripoli was liberated in late August 2011, the remit was broadened and he was made the lead coordinator of the Libya Stabilization Team. Earlier in the year, he was the coordinator for the Support Offices of the Executive Team of the National Transitional Council (NTC) of Libya. He is also the secretary of the Network of Free Ulema – Libya.\n\nAccording to the Royal Aal al-Bayt Institute for Islamic Thought, Nayed is ranked 50th among the top 500 most influential Muslims in the world.\n\nAref Ali Nayed was born in Benghazi in 1962 and raised in Tripoli. In 1978, the Nayed family property and businesses were confiscated by Gaddafi and the family fled Libya, relocating to Costa Rica, Hong Kong, and finally the United States. He later went to Canada, to study at the insistence of his father, and received his BSc in Engineering from the University of Guelph in Ontario. At Guelph, he became deeply interested in philosophy and science and stayed on to complete an MA in the Philosophy of Science, and then a PhD in Hermeneutics. His doctoral work on operational hermeneutics was published in 2011 by Kalam Research and Media. Pursuing further his academic interests he studied Islamic philosophy and theology at the University of Toronto and then specialised in Christian theology at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome.\n\nHe went on to take up several academic positions and was Professor at the Pontifical Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies in Rome, and the International Institute for Islamic Thought and Civilization in Malaysia.\n\nIn the 1990s, he returned to Libya and headed an IT company with offices in Tripoli, Benghazi, Sharjah and Hyderabad.\n\nAs the former Libyan government began lifting restrictions on religious teaching, helped restore and reopen the famous Othman Pasha Madrasa in the Old Madina of Tripoli. This madrasa was a renowned centre for theological and spiritual instructions and many leading Tripolitanian scholars of the past were associated with it. Nayed taught theology, logic and spirituality there, until February 2011, when the political unrest in Tripoli escalated and the former regime's forces committed widespread violence, killings and summary arrests of those supporting the Free Libyan movement.\n\nNayed is also Senior Advisor to the Cambridge Inter-Faith Programme; Fellow of the Royal Aal Al-Bayt Institute in Jordan; and was appointed to the Board of Advisors of the prestigious Templeton Foundation.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1998 Nayed was an educator, teaching in universities in North America, Europe, North Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. In 1998, Nayed interrupted his academic career at the behest of his father and founded Agathon Systems Limited/Alada, an engineering and technology enterprise focused on building data centers, networking, and banking infrastructures across Libya. Prior to the Libyan Revolution in 2011, Agathon represented 33 global technology companies in Libya, including IBM, CITRIX, NCR, Nortel, Microsoft, and APC. Nayed directly oversaw the implementation of projects across Libya and deployed some of the earliest projects in the automation of both the oil and banking sectors of Libya. Nayed's companies introduced ATM systems across the country and was responsible for the national payment system for the Central Bank of Libya. The company has worked with every bank in Libya and built data networks for Libya's National Oil (NOC) and National Utility (GECOL) companies, and created data centers in Libya for Schlumberger, British Petroleum, and WesternGECO. Alada built the company-wide network for Total Oil. Through Alada's projects, NAted trained over 200 young Libyan engineers and helped incubate over seven IT and communications businesses on behalf of former employees.\n\nFrom 1990 Nayed devoted himself and his resources to philanthropy and social activism in Libya and abroad. He has worked to preserve traditional knowledge, promote learning and build capacities of young Libyans. Nayed endowed libraries in Libya, Mali, Turkey, and Tajikistan. With his own funds, Nayed restored the historic Uthman Pasha Madrassa and its library in Tripoli. Nayed established the first university library in Bani Walid and another 25,000 volume library in Tripoli. Nayed worked on the publication and dissemination of writings promoting the restoration of Libya's cultural heritage.\n\nNayed also funded the restoration of the Al Ahly Sports, Cultural, and Social Club in Benghazi, as well as other sports clubs across Libya. Nayed serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Al Ahly SC in Benghazi.\n\nIn, 2009 Nayed founded Kalam Research & Media based in Tripoli, Tobruk, and Bayda in Libya and Dubai, UAE. Kalam Research & Media was formed as a collegial think tank and training center dedicated to research, education, content development and capacity building in Islamic theology, philosophy, and wisdom.\n\nNayed joined the Libyan Revolution on 19 February 2011, after joining in popular demonstrations in Tripoli. He formed the Network of Free Ulema composed of Libyan scholars, which called for the immediate end to killings by the regime. When the regime ignored the call and continued killing protestors, the Network of Free Ulema sanctioned open rebellion.\n\nWhen the National Transition Council (NTC), Free Libya's de facto government, was established in Benghazi on 27 February, Nayed was called upon to set up and supervise the Support Team to the NTC Executive Office. During the early days of the revolution, Nayed was instrumental in securing regional and international support and played a major role in convincing the United Arab Emirates to become the first country to recognize the new Libyan government.\n\nNayed subsequently was appointed to form and lead the Tripoli Task Force for the liberation of the capital, a role that was broadened by the NTC and Stabilization Team to secure the nation's critical infrastructure and ensure that civilians were safe and secured and had access to essential utilities and services. In this role, Nayed led efforts to unfreeze Libyan assets and gain international humanitarian assistance to meet the immediate food, water, and healthcare needs of Libyans most affected by conflict.\n\nIn August 2011 Nayed was the first diplomat appointed by the post-Qaddafi Libyan government, serving as Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates. When elections were held in 2012, Nayed submitted his resignation, a condition he insisted on at his appointment. His resignation was rejected by the Libyan government. Since that time, Nayed has resigned five times, each resignation being rejected by successive Libyan governments. During his tenure as Ambassador, Nayed has never taken a salary nor exercised diplomatic privileges.\n\nNayed brought together a selection of major international universities and training establishments to set up the Libyan Institute for Advanced Studies. The Institute is focused in building capacity among Libya's young people in areas that would benefit the country's future.\n\nAs a Muslim theologian educated in Maliki jurisprudence and classical Sufi doctrine, Nayed studied Christian theology at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome and served as professor at the Pontifical Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies in Rome, and the International Institute for Islamic Thought and Civilization in Malaysia.\n\nNayed is one of the leading Muslim figures in the field of inter-faith relations, and has been involved in various inter-faith initiatives since 1987, including A Common Word Between Us and You, of which he was one of the original signatories. Nayed was part of the Muslim delegation at the seminal Common Word bilateral meetings between Muslims and Christians at the Vatican, Lambeth Palace, Cambridge, Yale, and Georgetown. In 2006 when Pope Benedict XVI made controversial comments on Islam in Regensburg, Germany, Nayed was one of the 138 Muslim scholars who drafted a letter inviting Catholic-Muslim dialogue. Nayed also took part in a conference of clerics who reinterpreted the 14th-century scholar Ibn Taymiyya's celebrated fatwa on jihad, arguing radical Islamists who use it to justify killing are misguided.\n\nUntil the outbreak of the Libyan Revolution, Nayed lectured on Islamic theology, logic, and spirituality at the restored Uthman Pasha Madrassa in Tripoli, and supervised graduate students at the Islamic Call College. In addition, Nayed has written extensively on Islamic theology.\n\nNayed is a Senior Advisor to the Cambridge Inter-Faith Programme, a Fellow of the Royal Aal Al-Bayt Institute for Islamic Thought in Jordan, and was appointed to the board of advisers at the Templeton Foundation.\n\nIn 2012, Nayed founded the Libyan Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS), the first private research, advisory, and education institute established after the revolution. LIAS has offices in Tripoli, Bayda, and Tobruk as well as Dubai. LIAS is focused on building capacity among Libya's young people to help them contribute to their communities and country. LIAS has eight specialized faculties and an affiliated business incubator. It offers advisory services and courses ranging from professional education to degree programs for professional and personal development.\n\nLIAS departments include Libyan Studies, Stabilization Studies, Strategic Studies, Youth and Gender, Government, Management, Media, and Sustainability.\n\nAs an internationally respected theologian, Nayed has been one of the most outspoken critics of Islamist ideologues and extremists. Nayed was among the first public figures to identify Islamists as the main destabilizing force in post-revolution Libya and as the primary enablers of the ISIL and other extremist groups. Nayed has written and lectured extensively against extremist ideologies and cooperates with global initiatives to repudiate extremism and educate Muslims on Islam as a compassionate and tolerant religion. Nayed has supported the initiatives led by Sheikh Abdallah Bin Bayyah.\n\nIn February 2015, Nayed visited Washington D.C. to warn American lawmakers against the threat of the ISIL in Libya.\n\nNayed is married to Nadia Hashani from Misrata; they have three children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17280016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17280016", "title": "Barzillai Quaife", "text": "Barzillai Quaife\n\nBarzillai Quaife (29 December 1798 – 3 March 1873) was an English-born editor, Congregational and Presbyterian minister, bookseller and teacher active in both Australia and New Zealand. He was a fierce advocate for the rights of the Māori.\n\nBorn at Lenham in Kent, Quaife was the son of a farmer, Thomas Quaife, and his wife, Amelia Austin. He entered the Hoxton Academy in London in 1824; later he served as a teacher and minister in Collompton, Devon, and St Leonards-on-Sea, Sussex, among other locations. In 1835 Quaife submitted a \"Plan to provide the New Settlement of South Australia with the means of Religious instruction on the Congregational principle\" to the South Australian Colonization Commissioners; he was not, however, appointed under this plan, nor was he allowed to serve when he applied again in 1836. He did finally reach Adelaide in September 1839, with the assistance of George Fife Angas; here he established a Bible and tract depot and spent six months writing for Archibald Macdougall's \"Southern Australian\". before being persuaded to establish his own paper in New Zealand\n\nQuaife and his family arrived at Kororareka (today Russell) on the \"Agenoria\" in May 1840. On 15 June of that year the first issue of the \"New Zealand Advertiser and Bay of Islands Gazette\" was published. It was the second newspaper to be printed in the colony, and contained government-issued material; nevertheless, Quaife exercised an editorial policy directly contrary to, and critical of, government policy. He voiced strong support for the rights of the Māori, and was displeased by poorly-performing public servants; most of his focus was on indigenous rights - especially regarding land - and criminal justice. He has been called \"New Zealand's first public anti-racist\"; among his harshest statements on the issue was one that \"when…the Governor…lays it down as an axiom…that the natives have no independent right over their own property…we see no end - looking at the Cape as an example - of the catalogue of miseries which may be entailed on this inoffensive people\". He further argued that the land act of August 1840, supported by governor George Gipps and allowing the governor of New South Wales to appoint commissioners to investigate land-related issues in New Zealand, was unenforceable and would lead to trouble.\n\nIt has been suggested that Quaife's personality, combined with a liberal education and experience with both a free colony and an unencumbered, openly critical press, meant that he was destined for problems with authority. In the event he came into conflict with the chief police magistrate and acting colonial secretary, Willoughby Shortland. Shortland was fresh from New South Wales, where the press was controlled, and in December 1840, recalling an old ordinance from that colony, he ordered Quaife to post several hundred pounds' surety and pay a fine. Should he do neither, he would face penal transportation for publishing \"tending to bring the Government into hatred or contempt\". Consequently, the last edition of the \"Advertiser\" appeared on 10 December. Undeterred, Quaife returned to publishing in 1842, launching the \"Bay of Islands Observer\". His platform was much the same as before. Foolishly, however, he printed some gossip about George Cooper, a former colonial treasurer. He apologized publicly, but was still dismissed by the paper's owners. From that time forward he devoted himself to the Kororareka Congregational Church, which he had founded as New Zealand's first Congregational church in 1840. He also taught and ran a bookshop.\n\nMay 1844 found Quaife financially exhausted and intending to return to England. He left for Sydney, intending to spend a short time there, and began preaching in Parramatta, where he stayed to form a Congregational church and build a chapel. He knew the Rev. Dr. Robert Ross of the Pitt Street Congregational Church, but their relationship was never a very easy one, and all connections between them were severed when Quaife was offered a temporary appointment to replace John Dunmore Lang at the Scots Church while the latter was away. He then continued as pastor at the Parramatta church until its closure in 1850; meanwhile, he kept up his service at the Scots Church until February 1847, when it received a Presbyterian minister. Some of the congregation wished to retain Quaife's services, and chose to leave their church and found a new one under him. This organization first met in the Wesleyan Chapel on Macquarie Street before moving to the old City Theatre in Market Street.\n\nQuaife ministered to this group until 1850, in which year Dr. Lang reopened the Australian College and appointed him to the faculty as a professor of mental philosophy and divinity. He became a foundation member of two synods, that of New South Wales in 1850 and of the reunited ones in 1865. The college's work was restricted in 1852, at which point his teaching position lapsed. He lived again in Parramatta between 1853 and 1855. In the latter year Quaife went to Paddington teaching school while ministering to a congregation at home. 1863 saw reconciliation with Congregational leaders, from whom he had become estranged, and he was invited to train three of their students for the ministry. He closed his school and brought his congregation into the Ocean Street Congregational Church in Woollahra. He tutored his three students until September 1864; in October they were transferred to the then-new Camden College. Quaife did not receive a teaching position at the school, which omission hurt him deeply. Ill health at this point forced him to withdraw from professional work until his death.\n\nQuaife died in Woollahra in 1873.\n\nOn 4 November 1834, Quaife married Maria Smith in Westminster; they would have four sons, two of whom were to survive infancy. Maria Quaife died in January 1857, and on 29 May of that year Quaife married Eliza Buttrey, with whom he had two children, a son and a daughter. Two of his sons, Frederick Harrison Quaife and William Francis Quaife, went on to become noted physicians in the Sydney area. A granddaughter, Viola Austral Quaife, married Sydney Ure Smith in 1909.\n\n\nThis last was composed of lectures from the Australian College, and has been claimed as the first serious work of philosophy to be published in Australia. Quaife also contributed articles to many publications, including the \"Atlas\", the \"People's Advocate\", the \"Press\", the \"Empire\", and the \"Illawarra Mercury\"; he edited the \"Christian Standard\" in 1849 and both forms of the \"Christian Pleader\" between 1858 and 1864.\n"}
{"id": "18125859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18125859", "title": "Bernard of Trilia", "text": "Bernard of Trilia\n\nBernard of Trilia (Bernard de la Treille, Bernardus de Trilia) (Nîmes, c. 1240 – 1292) was a French Dominican theologian and scholastic philosopher. He was an early supporter of the teaching of Thomas Aquinas. He lectured at Montpellier.\n\n"}
{"id": "1044195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1044195", "title": "Biodynamic wine", "text": "Biodynamic wine\n\nBiodynamic wines are wines made employing biodynamic methods both to grow the fruit and during the post-harvest processing. Biodynamic wine production uses organic farming methods (e.g. employing compost as fertilizer and avoiding most pesticides) while also employing soil supplements prepared according to Rudolf Steiner's formulas, following a planting calendar that depends upon astronomical configurations, and treating the earth as \"a \"living and receptive\" organism.\n\nBiodynamic methods are used in viticulture (grape growing) in a variety of countries, including France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Austria, Germany, Australia, Chile, South Africa, Canada, and the United States. In 2013 over 700 vineyards worldwide comprising more than 10,000 ha/24,710 acres were certified biodynamic. A number of very high-end, high-profile commercial growers have converted recently to biodynamic practices. According to an article in \"Fortune\", many of the top estates in France, \"including Domaine Leroy in Burgundy, Château de la Roche-aux-Moines in the Loire, Maison Chapoutier in the Rhone Valley, and Domaine Zind-Humbrecht in Alsace,\" follow biodynamic viticulture. For a wine to be labeled “biodynamic” it has to meet standards laid down by the Demeter Association, an internationally recognized certifying body.\n\nBiodynamic agriculture is based on the work of Rudolf Steiner (1861–1925), who gave \"Agriculture Course\" in 1924, predating most of the organic movement. It includes ecological principles, emphasizing spiritual and mystical perspectives. Biodynamics aims at the ecological self-sufficiency of farms as cohesive, interconnected living systems.\n\nSome grape growers who have adopted biodynamic methods claim to have achieved improvements in the health of their vineyards, specifically in the areas of biodiversity, soil fertility, crop nutrition, and pest, weed, and disease management. For example, the late Anne-Claude Leflaive of Domaine Leflaive estate in Burgundy claimed that the use of biodynamic methods saved a badly diseased vineyard, to the point that it now produces some of her most highly prized wines. A long-term study of one California winery found that improved quality for both biodynamic and organic could not be explained. This study in different vineyard blocks at a commercial vineyard in Ukiah, California found no difference between biodynamic methods with general organic farming methods with respect to soil quality, nor in the yield per vine, clusters per vine, and cluster and berry weight. However, one of the authors, Leo McCloskey has made the case that consumer quality scores, 100-point scores, are expected to be higher for both biodynamic and organic over traditional farming.\n\nBiodynamic winemakers claim to have noted stronger, clearer, more vibrant tastes, as well as wines that remain drinkable longer. Biodynamic wines are more \"floral\", according to Spanish biodynamic vintner Pérez Palacios. Biodynamic producers also claim that their methods tend to result in better balance in growth, where the sugar production in the grapes coincides with physiological ripeness, resulting in a wine with the correct balance of flavor and alcohol content, even with changing climate conditions.\n\nIn a blind tasting of 10 pairs of biodynamic and conventionally made wines, conducted by \"Fortune\" and judged by seven wine experts including a Master of Wine and head sommeliers, nine of the biodynamic wines were judged superior to their conventional counterpart. The biodynamic wines \"were found to have better expressions of \"terroir\", the way in which a wine can represent its specific place of origin in its aroma, flavor, and texture.\" Critics caution that such comparisons of wines of the same type need to be controlled for differences in soil and subsoil, and the farming and processing techniques used.\n\nCritics acknowledge the high quality of biodynamic wines, but question whether many of the improvements in vineyard health and wine taste would have happened anyway if organic farming were used, without the mysticism and increased effort involved in biodynamics. Other critics attribute the success of biodynamic viticulture to the winemakers' higher craftsmanship and meticulous attention to detail. Ray Isle, managing editor of \"Wine & Spirit\" magazine, says, \"So what if they also think burying cow horns full of manure will help them channel new life forces from the cosmos?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40500944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40500944", "title": "Buddhism, the Fulfilment of Hinduism", "text": "Buddhism, the Fulfilment of Hinduism\n\n\"Buddhism, the Fulfilment of Hinduism\" is a lecture delivered by Indian Hindu monk and expounder Swami Vivekananda on 26 September 1893 at the Parliament of the World's Religions in Chicago. In this lecture, he expressed his opinion that \"Buddhism was the fulfilment of Hinduism.\"\n\nIn 1893, Swami Vivekananda went to the United States and joined the Parliament of the World's Religions as a delegate of Hinduism and India which ran from 11 to 27 September in that year in Chicago. This event also marked the first world conference of the representatives of Eastern and Western religions. After his introductory speech to the Parliament of religions on 11 September 1893, which was of a general nature stating no religion was superior or inferior to the other, his subsequent lectures were on 15th, 19, 20 and 26 September were on specific issues of religion.\n\nThis lecture was delivered on 26 September 1893. Swami Vivekananda, also known as \"neo-Vedanti\", in his lecture at the Parliament, highlighted the fact that the Buddha is worshipped as one of the incarnations of God where as in China, Japan and Ceylon (Sri Lanka) Buddhism is the religious practice. He particularly said that Buddhism was a rebel child of Hinduism. Buddha's teachings were a \"Gift to the World\" and could be traced to Christianity. He stated that the two religious practices — Hinduism, a Vedic religion, and Buddhism of the Shakyamuni, a Hindu who \"expanded on the truths from the hidden Vedas\" — are mutually inclusive. The teachings of Buddha were not new but were rooted in Vedic scriptures and he was the first monk who initiated the proselytisation of his ethos all over the world; the other religious preachers came much later. However, one distinction he pointed out in his lecture was a comparison with other religions of the world such as Christianity in which Jews who opposed Jesus Christ crucified him, while in India in contrast Buddha was worshipped as God. He was also critical of the way Buddhism was practised in the world now.\n\nSwamiji elaborated on the reasons for the near total elimination of the Buddhist religion (Mahayana Buddhism) from India. He said that \"At the present day there is not one who calls oneself a Buddhist in India, the land of its birth.\" This was because Buddha's philosophy clashed with the \"eternal rocks of the Vedas\" to which people, Brahmin's in particular, were wedded and did not want to accept change. Thus Buddhism could not survive in India. When Buddha was asked by his Brahmin disciples to translate his works, which were in the local language of the people, to Sanskrit, his reply was \"I am for the poor, for the people; let me speak in the tongue of the people.\" Swamiji also mentioned in his speech the loss to India was the \"reforming zeal, that wonderful sympathy and charity for everybody, that wonderful leaven which Buddhism had brought to the masses.\" \n\nSwamiji also stated that Buddhism should not be confused with Vedanta, in the same way as the Salvation Army is not to be confused with Christianity. Swamiji also opined that Buddhism was the \"fulfillment of Hinduism\" and thus Buddhists were wedded to the \"brains and philosophy of the Brahmins\" and similarly the Buddhists were the heart of the Hinduism.\n\nAccording to Rabindra Kumar Dasgupta, the author of \"Swami Vivekananda on Indian philosophy and literature\", it was his \"historic address on Buddhism\". A summary of the lecture was published \"The Indian Mirror\" on 29 June 1895, which emphasised the concluding words of the lecture—\nWe cannot live without you, nor you without us. Then believe that separation has shown to us, that you cannot stand without the brain and the philosophy of the Brahman [sic], nor we without your heart. This separation between the Buddhist and the Brahman [Brahmin] is the cause of the downfall of India. That is why India has been the slave of conquerors for the past 1000 years. Let us then join the wonderful intellect of the Brahman [Brahmin] with the heart, the noble soul, the wonderful humanising power of the Great Master.\n\nThe Srilankan Buddhist Dharmapala who equally spoke at this gathering, did not contest Vivekananda's conception of Buddhism as part of Hinduïsm, rather he stressed on Buddha's word as a universal Teaching. Hence especially the Western world, raised in dialectics, did not question Vivekananda's speech which eventually led to the first lecture on Buddhism on BBC radio, spoken by an Indian gentleman who repeated Vivekananda's dream of Hinduïsm and Buddhism as one.\n\n"}
{"id": "12185843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12185843", "title": "Comparative cognition", "text": "Comparative cognition\n\nComparative cognition is the comparative study of the mechanisms and origins of cognition in various species, and is sometimes seen as more general than, or similar to, comparative psychology.\nFrom a biological point of view, work is being done on the brains of fruit flies that should yield techniques precise enough to allow an understanding of the workings of the human brain on a scale appreciative of individual groups of neurons rather than the more regional scale previously used. Similarly, gene activity in the human brain is better understood through examination of the brains of mice by the Seattle-based Allen Institute for Brain Science (see link below), yielding the freely available Allen Brain Atlas. This type of study is related to comparative cognition, but better classified as one of comparative genomics. Increasing emphasis in psychology and ethology on the biological aspects of perception and behavior is bridging the gap between genomics and behavioral analysis.\n\nIn order for scientists to better understand cognitive function across a broad range of species they can systematically compare cognitive abilities between closely and distantly related species Through this process they can determine what kinds of selection pressure has led to different cognitive abilities across a broad range of animals. For example, it has been hypothesized that there is convergent evolution of the higher cognitive functions of corvids and apes, possibly due to both being omnivorous, visual animals that live in social groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44067885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44067885", "title": "Cosmic Sex", "text": "Cosmic Sex\n\nCosmic Sex is a 2013 art-house Independent Bengali Film written and directed by Amitabh Chakraborty and produced by Putul Mahmood. The film deals with the connection between Sex and Spirituality. \"Cosmic Sex\" is the story of a young man Kripa who is on the run from sex and violence one night in Kolkata when he meets a woman Sadhavi who strangely resembles his dead mother. She gives him shelter and teaches him to travel inwards through sex. The film deals with Dehotatva (worshipping through one’s own body) and explores the connection between Sex and Spirituality. The film stars Rii Sen who won the best actress award at Osian's Cinefan Festival of Asian and Arab Cinema for her bold act in the movie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21045523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21045523", "title": "Diego de Zúñiga", "text": "Diego de Zúñiga\n\nDiego de Zúñiga of Salamanca (sometimes Latinized as Didacus a Stunica) (1536–1597) was an Augustinian Hermit and academic. He is known for publishing an early acceptance of the Copernican theory.\n\nA student of Luis de León, he taught at the University of Osuna and the University of Salamanca.\n\nHis \"In Job commentaria\" (Commentary on Job, 1584) addressed Job 9:6, in such a way as to assert that the Copernican heliocentric theory was an acceptable interpretation of Scripture. This publication made him one of a very small number of Catholic scholars of the sixteenth century who set out an explicit accommodation with the ideas of Copernicus. He did, however, subsequently change his views, on another front, philosophical rather than theological. In \"Philosophia prima pars\", written at the end of his life, he rejected Copernicanism as incompatible with Aristotelian theory on natural philosophy.\n\nThe \"Philosophia prima pars\" was a large-scale work on metaphysics, structured in accordance with current university practice, and aimed at a reform in the university teaching of philosophy. Written from an Aristotelian point of view, it aimed to fortify the Peripatetic philosophy, fending off sceptics and arguing for it as scientific. Against the sceptical attack, truth was treated under metaphysics.\n\nThe work of Zúñiga was placed on the Church's Index, together with Copernicus' \"De revolutionibus\", by a decree of the Sacred Congregation from March 5, 1616:\n\nPartial Spanish translation: Metafísica (1597) - Introducción, traducción y notas de Gerardo Bolado - Pamplona, Eunsa 2008.\nFísica (1597) - Introducción, traducción y notas de Gerardo Bolado - Pamplona, Eunsa 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11557611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11557611", "title": "Dimiter Skordev", "text": "Dimiter Skordev\n\nDimiter Skordev () (born 1936 in Sofia) is a professor in the Department of Mathematical Logic and Applications, Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science at the St. Kliment Ohridski University of Sofia. Chairman of the department in 1972-2000. Doyen and pioneer of mathematical logic research in Bulgaria who developed a Bulgarian school in the theory of computability, namely the algebraic (or axiomatic) recursion theory. He was the 1981 winner of \"Acad. Nikola Obreshkov Prize\", the highest Bulgarian award in mathematics, bestowed for his monograph \"Combinatory Spaces and Recursiveness in Them\".\n\nSkordev's field of scientific interests include computability and complexity in analysis, mathematical logic, generalized recursion theory, and theory of programs and computation.\n\nSkordev has more than 45 years of lecturing experience in calculus, mathematical logic, logic programming, discrete mathematics, and computer science. He authored about 90 scientific publications including two monographs, and was one of the authors of the new Bulgarian phonetic keyboard layout proposed (but rejected) to become a state standard in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "14372442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14372442", "title": "Efficacy of prayer", "text": "Efficacy of prayer\n\nThe efficacy of prayer is about the outcome of prayer requests. This topic has been discussed in many fields such as theology, philosophy, history, medicine, and psychology. Numerous religious traditions have complex understandings of the nature, function and expectations of prayer. For instance, within Jewish and Christian traditions there are diverse interpretations of prayers as requests for miraculous outcomes and also requests for relatively mundane outcomes. Some religious communities question whether the efficacy of prayer can be reliably measured or be meaningful since sacred texts such as the Bible have diverse situations and teachings such as stating that God shall not be coerced (Deuteronomy 6:16 - \"You shall not put the Lord your God to the test\"), some prayers for healing have been purposely rejected by God before (2 Corinthians 12:7-9 - Apostle Paul's thorn in the flesh), or specific conditions would have to be met before prayers can be heard (having guidance by the Holy Spirit). In Christianity, there is an emphasis for the need for guidance from the Holy Spirit as to what needs to be prayed for and have taught that \"God can not be coerced.\"\n\nPhilosophically, there is controversy on this topic which involving basic issues like statistical inference and falsifiability as to what it may mean to \"prove\" or \"disprove\" something, and the problem of demarcation, i.e., as to whether this topic is even within the realm of science at all.\n\nThe efficacy of prayer has been the topic of various scientific studies since Francis Galton first addressed it in 1872. In recent decades, studies on prayer have become notable in medicine. According to the \"Washington Post\", \"...prayer is the most common complement to mainstream medicine, far outpacing acupuncture, herbs, vitamins and other alternative remedies.\" Recent medical studies on prayer have generally shown mixed results when it comes to healing from illnesses. The largest study, from the 2006 STEP project, found no significant differences in patients recovering from heart surgery whether the patients were prayed for or not. The patients who knew they were receiving prayers did experience slightly higher recovery complications, possibly due to chance and the added anxiety or pressure caused from the expectations from the prayers. However, one of the authors of the study emphasized that this study did not say anything about the power of prayer itself. Dr. Fred Rosner, an authority on Jewish medical ethics, and others have expressed doubt that prayer could ever be subject to empirical analysis.\n\nSome studies on subjective well-being and personal effects of prayer have shown positive effects on the individual who prays.\n\nIn comparison to other fields that have been scientifically studied, carefully monitored studies of prayer are relatively few. The field remains tiny, with about $5 million spent worldwide on such research each year. Despite all of this, the number of courses on prayer and medicine have increased in medical curriculum.\n\nA number of studies have been performed to scientifically measure the impact of prayer, often within a medical setting. The studies performed have used different structural methods and measured both hard data (such as blood pressure variations) and soft data such as anxiety levels and number of doctor visits. They have measured \"first-person effects\" (where the beneficiary performs the prayer), \"second-person effects\" (where someone with a personal connection to the beneficiary performs the prayer), and \"third-party effects\" where a group of unknown people pray for the beneficiary.\n\nAlmost all second- and third-party studies have focused on \"intercessory prayers\" or \"direct petitions to God\", while first-person studies have measured \"meditative\" prayers as well. In general, the requested outcome for a \"prayer as petition\" may be either an event in the physical world, e.g. the recovery of a person from an ailment, or an event in the spiritual world, e.g., the repose of a soul via a prayer for the dead. There are, of course, also certain types of prayer whose efficacy can not (by definition) be measured in the physical world, e.g. Roman Catholic tradition includes specific prayers and devotions as \"acts of reparation\" which do not involve a petition for a living or deceased beneficiary, but aim to \"repair the sins of others\", e.g., for the repair of the sin of blasphemy.\n\nIn most cases, the parameters measured within the medical studies cited here have not been all-encompassing from scientific or religious viewpoints. Mental attributes such as reverence, which are emphasized by religious figures such as popes and saints, have not been measured. The studies have also not measured whether meditation prior to prayer affects the outcome.\n\nThe studies cited here have also generally not measured physical parameters, such as \"proximity to the nearest place of common worship\", e.g., does a prayer by a Christian within a church have more effect than outside a church? Does it vary by the size of church? Does the effect increase or decrease if the Christian prays inside a Buddhist temple? What about a Buddhist praying in a church? Do prayers during Christmas have more or less effect than at other times of the year? And the distance between the beneficiary and the location of the prayer has not been clarified in the studies, e.g., does prayer for a person who is a continent away have the same effect as prayers for a person who is inches away? Does the \"skill level\" of the person praying have an effect on the outcome as stipulated by Wisneski and Anderson in their book \"The Scientific Basis of Integrative Medicine\"?\n\nWisneski and Anderson also hypothesize that different individuals have varying \"prayer aptitude levels,\" just as different people have varying levels of athletic ability, and that the effect of prayer is the combined effects of ability and training. Pope John Paul II echoed that sentiment when he said: \"We have to learn to pray: as it were learning this art ever anew...\" And he opposed \"mechanical prayer\" and emphasized the need for self-reflection before prayer. The familiarity of the person praying with the words and method of praying, and their distraction level before they start to pray is not measured as a parameter in some studies.\n\nThe \"reverence\" with which the prayer is recited has been emphasized by other religious writers, such as St. Louis de Montfort in his book \"Secret of the Rosary\". In section 41, he emphasized the \"purity of intention\" and stated that it is not the length of a prayer that matters, but the fervor, purity, and respect with which it is said, e.g., a single properly said Hail Mary is worth many that are badly said. Sections 42 and 43 of Montfort's book are devoted to \"Attention\" and \"Fighting Distractions\".\n\nAn example of a study on \"meditative prayer\" was the Bernardi study in the \"British Medical Journal\" in 2001. It reported that by praying the rosary or reciting yoga mantras at specific rates, baroreflex sensitivity increased significantly in cardiovascular patients.\n\nA study published in 2008 used Eysenck's dimensional model of personality based on neuroticism and psychoticism to assess the mental health of high school students based on their self-reported frequency of prayer. For students both in Catholic and Protestant schools, higher levels of prayer were associated with better mental health as measured by lower psychoticism scores. However, among pupils attending Catholic schools, higher levels of prayer were also associated with higher neuroticism scores.\n\nMany accept that prayer can aid in recovery due to psychological and physical benefits. It has also been suggested that if a person knows that he or she is being prayed for it can be uplifting and increase morale, thus aiding recovery. (See Subject-expectancy effect.) Many studies have suggested that prayer can reduce physical stress, regardless of the god or gods a person prays to, and this may be true for many reasons. According to a study by Centra State Hospital, \"the psychological benefits of prayer may help reduce stress and anxiety, promote a more positive outlook, and strengthen the will to live.\" Other practices such as Yoga, T'ai chi, and Meditation may also have a positive impact on physical and psychological health.\n\nA 2001 study by Meisenhelder and Chandler analyzed data obtained from 1,421 Presbyterian pastors surveyed by mail and found that their self-reported frequency of prayer was well-correlated with their self-perception of health and vitality. This research methodology has inherent problems with self-selection, selection bias, and residual confounding, and the authors admitted that the direction of perceived prayer and health relationships \"remains inconclusive due to the limits of the correlational research design\".\n\nA 2008 study by Bhutkar, et al. considered only 78 subjects, but concluded that the regular practice of Surya Namaskar had a positive impact on cardio-respiratory health.\n\nOne condition that may affect the efficacy of intercessory prayer is whether the person praying has a connection to the person prayed for. A 2005 study published by \"The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine\" alleges evidence that eleven healers in a variety of \"distant intentionality\" (defined as \"sending thoughts at a distance\") modalities were able to remotely influence the MRI-measurable brain activity in chosen partners who were physically and electrically isolated. As the authors explained, \"the study is not about healing per se, but whether there is some correlation in the intention to connect at a distance with a person.\" The experiment has not yet been reproduced by the authors or by others.\n\nThe Victorian scientist Francis Galton made the first statistical analysis of third-party prayer. He hypothesized, partly as satire, that if prayer was effective, members of the British Royal Family would live longer than average, given that thousands prayed for their well-being every Sunday, and he prayed over randomized plots of land to see if the plants would grow any faster, and found no correlation in either case.\n\nThe amount of formal research performed on intercessory prayer is quite small, with about $5 million spent worldwide on such research each year. The parameters used within the study designs have varied, for instance, daily or weekly prayers, whether to provide patient photographs, with full or partial names, measuring levels of belief in prayer, and whether patients underwent surgery.\n\nThe third party studies reported either null results, correlated results, or contradictory results in which beneficiaries of prayer had worsened health outcomes. For instance, a meta-analysis of several studies related to distant intercessory healing published in the \"Annals of Internal Medicine\" in 2000 looked at 2774 patients in 23 studies, and found that 13 studies showed statistically significant positive results, 9 studies showed no effect, and 1 study showed a negative result.\n\nA 2003 levels of evidence review found evidence for the hypothesis that \"Being prayed for improves physical recovery from acute illness\". It concluded that although \"a number of studies\" have tested this hypothesis, \"only three have sufficient rigor for review here\" (Byrd 1988, Harris et al. 1999, and Sicher et al. 1998). In all three, \"the strongest findings were for the variables that were evaluated most subjectively, raising concerns about the possible inadvertent unmasking of the outcomes' assessors. Other meta-studies of the broader literature have been performed showing evidence only for no effect or a potentially small effect. For instance, a 2006 meta analysis on 14 studies concluded that there is \"no discernible effect\" while a 2007 systemic review of intercessory prayer reported inconclusive results, noting that 7 of 17 studies had \"small, but significant, effect sizes\" but the review noted that the three most methodologically rigorous studies failed to produce significant findings.\n\nApart from whether prayer affects other beneficiaries, research has suggested that prayer has benefits on the person performing the prayer, e.g. in May 2011 a study was conducted that suggested a \"significant specific indirect effect\" between meditative prayer and hope, adult attachment, and forgiveness. Research has also suggested that prayer has a direct relation to a sense of overall gratitude in life. Prayer may also aid those dealing with alcoholism, e.g. a 2010 study suggested that there is a strong correlation between prayer and reduction of alcohol consumption. Those who actively pray during the week reported half as many consumed alcoholic drinks.\n\nAn increasingly more researched area within psychology of religion has been the relational implications of prayer, e.g. a study in 2011 conducted by Lambert et al. stated that when compared to a control group that experienced positive interactions with their significant other those in the prayer condition reported much higher feelings of unity and trust toward their significant other. Studies have also shown that there are increased feelings of marital enrichment through prayer. A study conducted in 2010 has also shown a correlation between prayer within relationships and reduction of infidelity. As with other areas of research about prayer, some debate whether these effects are a result of the prayer or a \"placebo effect.\" However, Dr. Herbert Benson, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, suggests that they may not be mutually exclusive.\n\nAn article in the \"Medical Journal of Australia\" says that \"One common criticism of prayer research is that prayer has become a popular therapeutic method for which there is no known plausible mechanism.\"\n\nMedical professionals are skeptical of new claims by studies until they have been experimentally reproduced and corroborated. For instance, a 2001 study by researchers associated with Columbia University has been associated with controversy, following claims of success in the popular media.\nIn the early 20th century, Florence Nightingale, a pioneer of modern nursing, was a believer in the effects of prayer. She wrote, \"Often when people seem unconscious, a word of prayer reaches them\".\n\nToday, although different medical studies have been at odds with one another, physicians have not stopped studying or recommending prayer. This may be partly because prayer is increasingly used as a coping mechanism for patients. According to Larry Dossey M.D.: \"In 1993, only three U.S. medical schools had courses devoted to exploring the role of religious practice and prayer in health; currently, nearly 80 medical schools have instituted such courses\", though many factors other than the efficacy of prayer are involved in such courses.\n\nApart from traditional medicine, alternative approaches based on prayer have been proposed. Prayer is becoming increasingly used in approaches to healing.\n\nIn a debate/interview in Newsweek with Christian evangelical Rick Warren, atheist Sam Harris commented that most lay perceptions of the efficacy of prayer (personal impressions as opposed to empirical studies) were related to sampling error because \"we know that humans have a terrible sense of probability.\" That is, humans are more inclined to recognize confirmations of their faith than they are to recognize disconfirmations.\n\nHarris also criticized existing empirical studies for limiting themselves to prayers for relatively unmiraculous events, such as recovery from heart surgery. He suggested a simple experiment to settle the issue: Get a billion Christians to pray for a single amputee. Get them to pray that God regrow that missing limb. This happens to salamanders every day, presumably without prayer; this is within the capacity of God. I find it interesting that people of faith only tend to pray for conditions that are self-limiting.\n\nWithin Christian teachings, the comment by Harris regarding what he called the self-limiting nature of prayer had been addressed years before by multiple authors. For instance, in the 19th century William Peabody discussed the efficacy of prayer in the face of what he called the \"immutability of the laws of nature\". He said:\nNight follows day, and day night. The seasons preserve their succession... We may not hope to suspend their operation by our prayers... And yet notwithstanding all of this, we hold in an undoubting faith the doctrine of the efficacy of our prayers, or to use the language of another, \"of an influence from above as diversified and unceasing as are the requests from below\".\nPeabody then argued at length that prayers may have efficacy in a form that does not interfere with the arrangement of the laws of nature, and that God may respond in ways that are not anticipated, without changing the arrangement of nature. George Burnap echoed the same concept when he wrote:\nGod governs the universe by fixed and uniform laws, not only for the sake of order, but for\nhuman good... The fulfillment of \"every\" human desire would break up this order, and\nbring everything into disorder and confusion.\nThe view expressed by Harris above regarding the \"relatively unmiraculous\" petitions used in prayers has been addressed in religious circles in the context of miraculous outcomes for prayer. There are different theological classifications of miracles, one of the most common being the three categories: \"\"surpassing nature\" (Latin \"supra naturam\"), \"against nature\" (Latin \"contra naturam\") and \"alongside nature\"\" (Latin \"praeter naturam\").\n\nThe raising of the dead is considered a \"supra naturam\" event and is not reported\nin theological writings beyond the Christian Bible, where ten resurrection events are recorded. \"Contra naturam\" events require significant changes to the \"order of the world\" (e.g. regrowth of limbs) and are also hardly ever reported. \"Praeter naturam\" events can proceed along the laws of nature. They have been reported in a number of cases, and have been subject to a large amount of debate. Examples include the claims of miraculous cures at pilgrimage site such as Our Lady of Lourdes. Many of these claims have been analyzed and only a few have been accepted by the Lourdes Medical Bureau.\n\nThe scientific measurement of the efficacy of massive prayer requires the coordination of the activities of a large number of people, and no direct citations for the existence of such studies appear in the scientific literature. However, non-scientific instructions for massive prayer have been issued in the past, and conclusions about the effects of the prayer have been drawn by a large number of believers, outside a scientific framework.\n\nIn a historical context, in 1571 Pope Pius V called for all of Europe to pray the Rosary for victory at the Battle of Lepanto, in which the Christian belligerents included the Papal States. Trophies from the battle are now enshrined in various Christian churches which attribute the victory to the massive prayers.\n\nDirections for even more massive, long term prayers were provided by the messages of Our Lady of Fatima reported by Lucia Santos, who stated that the Virgin Mary specifically asked believers to pray for the conversion of Russia. The 9-day Fatima Novena prayer includes a petition for the conversion of Russia. With a blessing from Pope Pius XII (who called himself \"the world chief against communism\") millions of members of the Blue Army of Our Lady of Fatima were instructed to pray for several years in publications such as \"Soul Magazine\". Some Christians attribute the fall of communism in the Revolutions of 1989 to massive prayers, while economists attribute them to market forces and socioeconomic conditions.\nReligious and philosophical objections to the very study of prayer's efficacy exist. Many interpret \"Deuteronomy\" (6:16 \"You shall not put the Lord your God to the test\") to mean that prayer cannot, or should not, be examined.\n\nThe religious viewpoint objects to the claim that prayer is susceptible to experimental designs or statistical analysis, and other assumptions in many experiments, e.g. that a thousand prayers are statistically different from one. The objections also include the complaint that religion generally deals with unique, uncontrollable events; statistics, and science in general, deal with recurring phenomena which are possible to sample or control and are susceptible to general laws.\n\nReligious objections also include the complaint that as prayer starts to be measured, it is no longer real prayer once it gets involved in an experiment and that the concept of conducting prayer experiments reflects a misunderstanding of the purpose of prayer. The 2006 STEP experiment indicated that some of the intercessors who took part in it complained about the scripted nature of the prayers that were imposed to them, saying that this is not the way they usually conduct prayer: \n\nWith respect to expectation of a response to prayer, the 18th-century philosopher William Paley wrote:\n\nTo pray for particular favors is to dictate to Divine Wisdom, and savors of presumption; and to intercede for other individuals or for nations, is to presume that their happiness depends upon our choice, and that the prosperity of communities hangs upon our interest.\nDuring the 20th-century, philosopher Bertrand Russell believed that religion and science \"have long been at war, claiming for themselves the same territory, ideas and allegiances\". And Russell believed that the war had been decisively won\nby science. Almost 40 years earlier, a 22-year-old Russell also wrote: \"For although I had long ceased to believe in the efficacy of prayer, I was so lonely and so in need of some supporter such as the Christian God, that I took to saying prayers again when I ceased to believe in their efficacy.\"\nThe 21st-century evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, describing how Richard Swinburne explained away the STEP experiment's negative results \"on the grounds that God answers prayers only if they are offered up for good reasons\", says that some elements of religion are testable.Other theologians joined NOMA-inspired sceptics in contending that studying prayer in this way is a waste of money because supernatural influences are by definition beyond the reach of science. But as the Templeton Foundation correctly recognized when it financed the study, the alleged power of intercessory prayer is at least in principle within the reach of science. A double-blind experiment can be done and was done. It could have yielded a positive result. And if it had, can you imagine that a single religious apologist would have dismissed it on the grounds that scientific research has no bearing on religious matters? Of course not.\n\nSome Christian authors have contended for long that the efficacy of prayer involves the action of the Holy Spirit, e.g. referring to the Gospel of Luke ,\n\nJohn Tillotson, the 17th-century Archbishop of Canterbury argued that the efficacy of prayer depends on the Holy Spirit. Reformed Presbyterian scholar Wayne R. Spear argues that the person praying needs to be \"guided by the Holy Spirit\" as to what needs to be prayed for and that given the \"right petition\" the Holy Spirit will then intercede for the prayer.\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church states that:\n\nChristian existentialist philosopher and theologian Paul Tillich argued that prayer is not possible in a subject-object dichotomy in which the person is separated from God, for God cannot be the object of a prayer without being at the same time the subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "541339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541339", "title": "Evald Ilyenkov", "text": "Evald Ilyenkov\n\nEvald Vassilievich Ilyenkov (; 18 February 1924 – 21 March 1979) was a Marxist author and Soviet philosopher.\n\nEvald Ilyenkov did original work on the materialist development of Hegel's dialectics, notable for his account of concrete universals. His works include \"Dialectical Logic\" (Russian, 1974; English trans. 1977), \"Leninist Dialectics and the Metaphysics of Positivism\" (Russian, 1980 (posthum.); English trans. 1982) and \"The Dialectics of the Abstract and Concrete in Marx's Capital\" (Russian, 1960; English trans. 1982). Ilyenkov committed suicide in 1979.\n\nDavid Bakhurst wrote in his article; \"Meaning, Normativity and the Life of Mind\":\n\nAn abridged version of his article, \"Marx and the Western World,\" was published in English in a book of the same name in 1967, but this work is little known.\n\nOn the other hand, Ilyenkov's work (especially his masterpiece, the study on \"Dialectics of the Abstract and the Concrete in Marx's Capital\" from 1960, and the collection of essays entitled \"Dialectical Logic\" from 1974) deeply influenced the reception of Marx' economic writings from the 1960s onwards, in the Soviet Union and the GDR as well as in the West. His influence can be witnessed in the international research effort concerned with the publication of Marx' economic manuscripts (in Marx/Engels: \"Gesamtausgabe\", or MEGA, section II, 1976 ff.). His influence is also evident in the intense debates on economic reform that was going on in the Soviet Union in the 1970s (e.g., in the works of A. K. Pokrytan).\n\nIlyenkov's works have been published in about 20 languages. His \"Dialectical Logic\" (1974) was published in English by Progress Publishers in Moscow in 1977. A German translation of his \"Dialectics of the Abstract and the Concrete in Marx’s Capital\" (1960), was published by the same publisher in 1979 (and simultaneously by \"Das europäische Buch\", West Berlin); an English translation of the book was published by Progress Publishers in Moscow in 1982. \"Leninist Dialectics and the Metaphysics of Positivism\" (first published in Russian in 1980) was published by New Park Publications in 1982.\n\nBooks:\n\nArticles:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12272", "title": "George Pappas", "text": "George Pappas\n\nGeorge Sotiros Pappas (born 1942) is a professor of philosophy at Ohio State University. Pappas specializes in epistemology, the history of early modern philosophy, philosophy of religion, and metaphysics. He is of Greek and English origin.\n\nHe is the author of the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy entry on Internalist versus Externalist conceptions of epistemic justification.\n\nHe was co-editor (with Marshall Swain) of \"Essays on Knowledge and Justification\" (1978), regarded as a key anthology of essays relating to the Gettier problem and used as a core text in undergraduate epistemology courses.\n\nGeorge Pappas is an editorial consultant of Berkeley Studies.\n\nGeorge S. Pappas is known to be a leading Berkeley scholar; his essay \"Berkeley and Scepticism\" was in 1993 awarded the International Berkeley Prize. Professor Pappas is a regular participant of International Berkeley Conferences. At one such conference, celebrating the 300th anniversary of George Berkeley's birth, Mr. Pappas propounded a new approach to the relationship between Berkeley's anti-abstractionism and \"esse est percipi\" principle. On Pappas reading, Berkeley's two theses — that there are no abstract ideas and that sensible objects must be perceived in order to exist — entail one another.\n\nPappas' interpretation of Berkeley's esse\" is \"percipi thesis has sparked much discussion. In 1989, the Garland Publishing Company brought out a 15-volume collection of major works on Berkeley; Pappas' paper \"Abstract ideas and the 'esse is percipi' thesis\" was included in the third volume, as it was considered to be a significant contribution to Berkeley scholarship.\n\nPappas developed his treatment of Berkeley's \"esse est percipi\" principle to repudiate the \"inherence interpretation of Berkeley\", upon which Edwin E. Allaire, among others, elaborated\n\nThat account is put forward to answer an extremely perplexing question in the history of philosophy: Why did Berkeley embrace idealism, i. e., why did he hold that esse est percipi, that to be is to be perceived? \n\nAfter emerging in the early 1960s, the \"inherence account\" attracted numerous proponents and became an influential element of contemporary Berkeley scholarship. In his paper \"Ideas, minds, and Berkeley\" Pappas revealed some discrepancies between fountain-head evidences and Allaire's approach to a reconstruction of Berkeley's idealism. Pappas' critical examination of the \"inherence account\" is greatly appreciated by Berkeley scholars. Pappas' penetrating remarks compelled Edwin B. Allaire to revise and improve his conception. Even those who share Allaire's account of Berkeley's idealism acknowledge Pappas' article to be \"an excellent review and critique of the IA [inherence account].\"\n\nIn 2000 George Pappas published his monograph \"Berkeley's thought\" in which some parts were based on earlier papers of his. While writings by A. A. Luce or Geoffrey Warnock are long out dated, the book \"Berkeley's thought\" written by Dr Pappas is often included in lists of recommended literature on Berkeley's philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "26320377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26320377", "title": "Global Tamil Forum", "text": "Global Tamil Forum\n\nGlobal Tamil Forum(GTF) is an International Tamil organization meant to further Tamil causes in Tamil areas of Sri Lanka GTF supports self-determination for Tamils and wants Justice for War crimes against Tamils. It is headed by S. J. Emmanuel. In UK it works with both Labour and Conservative Parties . It consists of Tamil organizations across the world and to create a united Tamil voice.\n\n"}
{"id": "21989233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21989233", "title": "Gustavo Bueno", "text": "Gustavo Bueno\n\nGustavo Bueno Martínez (1 September 1924 – 7 August 2016) was a Spanish philosopher.\n\nGustavo Bueno is the main proponent of the philosophical system known as philosophical materialism. Philosophical materialism excludes any possibility of spiritual life without reference to organic life. Its ontology and theories of knowledge are not based on mechanic materialism or dualistic historical materialism, but on the reality of current sciences and on a rich interpretation of the main systems defended by the different traditions available in the History of Philosophy.\nThe founder of academic (scholar) philosophy, Plato, defended in \"Sophist\" the principle of Symploké that Bueno uses to support both determinism and pluralism: \"nothing is isolated from everything else, but not everything is connected to everything else; otherwise, nothing could be known.\" Thus, Bueno opposes both monism and skepticism. Some of Bueno's works have been translated into English, German and Chinese.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32441841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32441841", "title": "Heo Mok", "text": "Heo Mok\n\nHeo Mok (Hangul: 허목; Hanja: 許|穆; December 11, 1595 – April 27, 1682) was a Korean politician, scholar, and calligrapher during the Joseon Dynasty. Heo was most commonly known by the pen name Misu.\n\nMok was known as the best Chinese calligrapher of his time due to his unique style of calligraphy. He became a governor at the age of 81, and was the first person in Korean history to hold such a high-ranking position without taking the Gwangeo civil service exam.\n\nHeo Mok was born at Changseonbang (창선방) in Hanseong (Seoul). His father, Heo Kyo, was a member of the lower bureaucracy, while his great-grandfather, Heo Ja, once served as the vice-prime minister of the Joseon Dynasty.\n\nHeo Mok's maternal grandfather, Lim Je, was a student of Seo Gyeong-deok. His father, Heo Kyo, was a student of Park Ji-hwa. Seo Kyung-deok and Park Ji-hwa's more academic and ideologically-successful pupils were to join the Eastern Man Party (동인;東人) of the Joseon Court. However, a schism divided court politics between the newly-formed Southern Man Party(남인;南人) and the Northern Man Party(북인;北人), with the Eastern Man Party being assimilated into the Northern Man Party. Mok's family were thus members of the Northern Man Party.\n\nHeo Mok's early years were spent as a disciple to both Yi San-hae and Lee Won-ik's distinct private scholarly institutions.\n\nIn 1613, he married Lady Jeonju, who was the granddaughter of Ohri Lee Won-ik. The marriage initially met opposition from his wife's family, but Lee Won-ik's support made it successful. In 1615, Heo Mok and his cousin Heo Hoo went to study at Hangang Jeong Gu's private educational institute, where they remained until 1620.\n\nAfter the death of his master Jeong Gu, Heo Mok went to Jeong Gu's best pupil Yeo-hun Chang Hyon-kwang's private educational institute. In later years, Heo Mok went to Mountin, known in ancient times as the place devoted to the reading and study of Confucianism. Jeong Gu had studied under Cho Shik and Yi Hwang. Yi Hwang's more academically and ideologically successful pupils joined the Eastern Man Party and later the Southern Man Party. Cho Shik's pupil and academic successor--Jeong Gu--was in the Eastern Man Party(동인;東人), and later the Northern Man Party. Cho Shik was Jeong Gu's one teacher Yi Hwang's relations for join to Southern Man Party.\n\nIn 1623, he was King Injo of Joseon's flatter scholars Park Ji-gyes hammering, also angry King Injo was deprivation to seize of his exam application eligibility and also he renounced bureaucracy.\n\nIn 1651, he was commended for his philosophical learning skill, and appointed to Naesikyokwan(내시교관;內侍敎官), but years later, he resigned. In 1656, Jojiseobyuljwa, that 7월, Gongjojwarang after that month, appointed Yonggunghyungam(용궁현감;龍宮縣監), he was resignations. In 1657, Gongjojwarang(공조좌랑;工曺佐郞), Saheonbu Jupyung(사헌부장령;司憲府掌令), Saboksi Jubu(사복시주부;司僕侍主簿). In 1658, he was reappointed to Saheonbu Jupyung, and he was to be the leader of the Southern Man Party, but he refused and chose to be the leader of the intra-parties clique, Blue Southern(청남파;淸南派), a group of aggressive hardliners of the Western Man Party.\n\nIn 1659, Hyojong appointed him to Saheonbu Changryung(사헌부장령;司憲府掌令) and Buhogun(부호군;副護軍), and later that September, he became head of Jangakwon(장악원정;掌樂院正). In December, he was appointed leader of Sanguiwon (상의원정;尙衣院正), but, in 1659 King Hyojong's dropped dead, and even during Hyojong's funeral period, he was in conflict with Song Si-yeol and Song Jun-kil. At that time, living to King Injo's second wife Queen Jangryeol. but King Hyojong's funeral time to Queen Jangryeol's funeral rite problem.\n\nIn early 1660, Song Si-yeol and Song Jun-kil, two header of Western Man Party(서인;西人) was King Hyojong's for Injo's second son, so become Great Queen Jaui's mourning was ather many childs funeral time mourning. but Heo Mok and Yun Hyu was Hyojong was successor to Injo, then Hyojong for Injo's practically first sons. so Great Queen Jaui's mourning was three years.\n\nHeo Mok and two Song ideology Disputation for First of Yesong Ronjaeng(제1차 예송 논쟁;第一次禮訟論爭). ather Song Si-yeol's assert Joseon Dynastys to small Sinocentrism country also Heo Mok assert to Kingdom Joseon was the \"special country\"(방외별국;方外別國). original plan, that disputation was stand face to face, but Yun Seon-do said, \"Song Si-yeol and Song Jun-kil was denial King Hyojongs right of King succession legitimacy\" argument. afterwards, ideology disputation to generate electricity emotion fight and treason stricture.\n\nShortly Yun Seon-do to imprisonment and Heo was complicity to demotion, appointed to Mayor of Samcheok(삼척부사;三陟府使). In 1663 he was refusal Mayor of Samcheok. Later years he was more China and Japan, Korean classical books reading and Confucianism teaching.\n\nThat times he was write to Ki eun(기언;記言) and Eastern history(동사;東史). Eastern history was Korean history book, that Eastern history was regulation for Korean national ancestor was Dangun. But collision to rush up against Western Man Party. they idea to Korean national ancestor was Gija.\n\nIn 1674, Hyojong's wife Queen Inseon's death. that time was growth to revive disputation, Queen Inseon of King Injo's first daughter-in-low or Second daughter-in-low. that time living to King Injos second wife Queen Jangryeol. but Queen Inseon's funeral time Queen Jangryeol's rite problem. Song Si-yeol was Queen Inseon's husband King Hyojong's for Injo's second son, So funeral mourning to 9 month. but Heo Mok and Yun Hyu was King Hyojong was successor to King Injo, then Queen Inseon for Injo's practically first daughter-in-law and also Funeral mourning for one year.\n\nBut King Hyunjong felt unpleasant to 'King Hyojong's Second' title. That time, King Hyunjong was ruling party Western Man Party and that header to Song Si-yeol. King Hyunjong was cabinet reshuffle for seize power for Southern Man Party and also victory to Heo Mok and Yun Hyu. But King Hyunjong's drop death.\n\nHeo Mok was taken into confidence, regardless of King Hyunjong's death. In November 1674 he was appoint to Yijochamui(이조참의;吏曺參議) and continuously Saheonbu Daesaheon(사헌부대사헌;司憲府大司憲). In 1675 he was successive for Yijochampan(이조참판;吏曺參判), Bibyungukdangsang(비변국당상;備邊局堂上), JwaChamchan(좌참찬;左參讚), Yijopanseo(이조판서;吏曺判書), Wuchamchan(우참찬;右參讚). In 1676, Heo Mok was special promotion to right vice-prime minister of Joseon dynastys\n\nIn 1679, a Party member and Prime minister Heo Juk's illegitimate son Heo Gyeon of abuse of power, Heo Mok was attack to Heo Juk, but King Sukjong and ather Southern Man Party member to take sidesof Heo Gyeon. Heo Mok was disappointment, recuse and go to Wangjing in Majeon. that years he was appoint to judge of Privy Council(중추부판사;中樞府判事).\n\nIn 1680, amidst party members bad and arrogation, King Sukjong was purge and cabinet reshuffle to Southern Man Party. He was take the expulsion to duties and title also he went to Wangjing in Majeon. In 1682, he died in a thatched house in Wangjing town, Majeon county in Gyeonggi Province, aged 87 or 89.\n\nBut Western Man Party attacked Heo Mok and Yun Hyu, the member of Western Man Party's politicians was called to Samunanjeok(사문난적;斯文亂賊). also sarcastic to Heo Mok names to Hyung Mok(흉목;凶穆) and the \"poisonous\". In 1689, he was rehabilitation to rehabilitate. that years, In 1692 he was posthumous conferment of honors to Prime minister. also award to a peerage, duke of Munjeong(문정공;文正公).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50796942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50796942", "title": "Host switch", "text": "Host switch\n\nIn parasitology and epidemiology, a host switch (or host shift) is an evolutionary change of host specificity. All symbiotic species, such as parasites, pathogens and mutualists exhibit a certain degree of host specificity. They occur in the body (or on the body surface) of a single host species or – more often – on a limited set of host species. In the latter case, the suitable host species tend to be taxonomically related, sharing similar morphology and physiology.\n\nFor example, the human immunodeficiency virus used to occur in non-human primates in West-central Africa, and have switched to humans in the early 20th century.\n\nRecent studies proposed to discriminate between two different types of evolutionary changes in host specificity.\n\nAccording to this view, host switch is a sudden and accidental colonization of a new host species by a few parasite individuals that are capable to establish a new and viable population there. After the switch, the new population is more-or-less isolated from the parasite population on the donor host species. It does not affect the further fate of the conspecific parasites on the donor host, and it may finally lead to parasite speciation. It is more likely to target an increasing host population that harbours a relatively poor parasite/pathogen fauna, such as the pioneer populations of invasive species.\n\nContrarily, host-shift is a gradual change of the relative role of a particular host species as primary versus secondary host, in case of a multi-host parasite species. The former primary host slowly becomes a secondary host or even becomes totally abandoned, while the former secondary host becomes a new primary host species. This process is slower and more predictable, and it does not increase parasite diversity. Predictably, it more often occurs in shrinking host populations that harbours a relatively (considering the small host population size) rich parasite/pathogen fauna.\n"}
{"id": "41608207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41608207", "title": "Human Rights between the Sexes", "text": "Human Rights between the Sexes\n\nHuman Rights between the Sexes is an analysis of the human rights of intersex people in 12 countries. It was written by Dan Christian Ghattas of the \"Internationalen Vereinigung Intergeschlechtlicher Menschen\" (the Organisation Intersex International (OII) in Germany) and published in October 2013 by the Heinrich Böll Foundation. The countries studied were Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, New Zealand, Serbia, South Africa, Taiwan, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine and Uruguay.\n\nThe report is believed to be the first comparative international analysis of the human rights of intersex people. It found that intersex people are discriminated against worldwide.\n\nGhattas states:\nGhattas found that:\n\nGhattas makes five conclusions for human rights organisations:\n\nThe book is published in German as \"Menschenrechte zwischen den Geschlechtern\".\n\nThe book can be downloaded for free in either English or German.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28257292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28257292", "title": "Illumos", "text": "Illumos\n\nillumos is a free and open-source Unix operating system. It derives from OpenSolaris, which in turn derives from SVR4 UNIX and Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD). illumos comprises a kernel, device drivers, system libraries, and utility software for system administration. This core is now the base for many different open-sourced OpenSolaris distributions, in a similar way in which the Linux kernel is used in different Linux distributions.\n\nThe maintainers write \"illumos\" in lowercase since some computer fonts do not clearly distinguish a lowercase \"L\" from an uppercase \"i\" (see homoglyph). The name is derived from the Latin \"illuminare\" meaning \"to enlighten\", and \"OS\" for \"operating system\".\n\nillumos was announced via webinar on Thursday, 3 August 2010, as a community effort of some core Solaris engineers to create a truly open source Solaris by swapping closed source bits of OpenSolaris with open implementations.\n\nThe original plan explicitly stated that illumos would not be a distribution or a fork. However, after Oracle announced discontinuing OpenSolaris, plans were made to fork the final version of the Solaris ON kernel allowing illumos to evolve into a kernel of its own.\n\n, efforts focused on libc, the NFS lock manager, the crypto module and many device drivers to create a Solaris-like OS with no closed, proprietary code. , development emphasis includes transitioning from the historical compiler, Studio, to GCC. The \"userland\" software is now built with GNU make and contains many GNU utilities such as GNU tar.\n\nillumos is lightly led by founder Garrett D'Amore and other community members/developers such as Bryan Cantrill and Adam Leventhal, via a Developers' Council.\n\nThe illumos Foundation has been incorporated in the State of California as a 501(c)6 trade association, with founding board members Jason Hoffman (formerly at Joyent), Evan Powell (Nexenta), and Garrett D'Amore. As of August 2012 the foundation was in the process of formalizing its by-laws and organizational development.\n\nAt OpenStorage Summit 2010, the new logo for illumos was revealed, with official type and branding to follow over.\n\nIts primary development project, illumos-gate, derives from OS/Net (aka ON), which is a Solaris kernel with the bulk of the drivers, core libraries, and basic utilities, similar to what is delivered by a BSD \"src\" tree. It was originally dependent on OpenSolaris OS/Net, but a fork was made after Oracle silently decided to close the development of Solaris and unofficially killed the OpenSolaris project.\n\n\n\nDistributions, at illumos.org\n\n"}
{"id": "216613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216613", "title": "Invisible Pink Unicorn", "text": "Invisible Pink Unicorn\n\nThe Invisible Pink Unicorn (IPU) is the goddess of a parody religion used to satirize theistic beliefs, taking the form of a unicorn that is paradoxically both invisible and pink. She is a rhetorical illustration used by atheists and other religious skeptics as a contemporary version of Russell's teapot, sometimes mentioned in conjunction with the Flying Spaghetti Monster.\n\nThe IPU is used to argue that supernatural beliefs are arbitrary by, for example, replacing the word \"God\" in any theistic statement with \"Invisible Pink Unicorn\". The mutually exclusive attributes of pinkness and invisibility, coupled with the inability to disprove the IPU's existence, satirize properties that some theists attribute to a theistic deity.\n\nRussell's teapot is an analogy first coined by the philosopher Bertrand Russell (1872–1970) to illustrate that the philosophic burden of proof lies upon a person making scientifically unfalsifiable claims rather than shifting the burden of proof to others, specifically in the case of religion. Russell wrote that, if he claims that a teapot orbits the Sun somewhere in space between the Earth and Mars, it is nonsensical for him to expect others to believe him on the ground that they cannot prove him wrong. Russell's teapot is still referred to in discussions concerning the existence of God.\n\nThe IPU seems to have become notable primarily through online culture: in addition to alt.atheism, where IPU still frequently comes up in discussions, there are now a number of web sites dedicated to her. An early documented reference to the IPU was on July 7, 1990, on the Usenet discussion group alt.atheism. Other sources concerning IPU state that she was \"revealed to us\" on alt.atheism.\n\nThe concept was further developed by a group of college students from 1994 to 1995 on the ISCA Telnet-based BBS. The students created a manifesto that detailed a nonsensical (yet internally consistent) religion based on a multitude of invisible pink unicorns. It is from this document that the most famous quotation concerning IPUs originated:\n\nIt is common when discussing the Invisible Pink Unicorn to point out that because she is invisible, no one can prove that she does not exist (or indeed that she is not pink). This is a parody of similar theistic claims about God—that God, as creator of the universe, is not subject to its laws and thus not physically detecting him tells us nothing about his existence or lack thereof. The Invisible Pink Unicorn is an illustration which attempts to demonstrate the absurdity of citing attributes and a lack of evidence as proof of a deity's existence. Her two defining attributes, invisibility and color (pink), are inconsistent and contradictory; this is part of the satire. The paradox of something being invisible yet having visible characteristics (e.g., color) is reflected in some East Asian cultures, wherein an invisible red string is said to connect people who have a shared or linked destiny.\n\nThere are humorous mock debates amongst her \"followers\" concerning her other attributes, such as whether she is completely invisible, or invisible to most, but visible to those who have faith in her (bearing similarities to \"The Emperor's New Clothes\"). Some arguments are quite elaborate and tortuous, satirizing the disputatiousness and intricacy of the theological debates that occur in many religions.\n\nThe Invisible Pink Unicorn is also used to de-deify religious texts. The goal is to have the reader experience the text without heavily loaded concepts that many readers will associate with omnipotence, or will read with an unquestioned faith. It is argued that when someone re-reads the same text with all direct references to God replaced with the Invisible Pink Unicorn, the reader may see the text in a new and more critical way: \nIn 1996, a unicorn that no one can see was adapted as a teaching device at Camp Quest, the first free-thought summer camp for children established in the United States, by Dr. L. Wilson. As reported years later in the July 21, 2006 \"Cincinnati Enquirer\", \"Campers must try to prove that imaginary unicorns—as a metaphor for God—don't exist.\"\nRichard Dawkins alluded to unicorns in this connection in his 2006 book \"The God Delusion\", writing that \"Russell's teapot, of course, stands for an infinite number of things whose existence is conceivable and cannot be disproved. [...] A philosophical favorite is the invisible, intangible, inaudible unicorn.\"\n\nIn the essay \"The Dragon in my Garage\" from the book \"The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle In the Dark\", Carl Sagan uses the example of an invisible dragon breathing heatless fire that someone claims lives in his garage. The supposed dragon cannot be seen, heard, or sensed in any way, nor does it leave footprints. There is no reason to believe this purported dragon exists.\n\nIn the \"South Park\" episode \"The Poor Kid\", a strict agnostic couple tell their foster children that God \"might\" exist, but then again, it's equally possible that there might be a \"giant reptilian bird in charge of everything\". At the end of the episode, the bird actually does appear and eats Kenny.\n\nThe Church of the Invisible Pink Unicorn often faces criticism from monotheistic religions for comparing their sacred beings with a fantastic invented character as well as trying to masquerade it as a religion while lacking the scripture, principles, ideologies, and broader social community necessary to be considered a legitimate religion. Many followers have responded to these critiques by improvising new literature, rituals, and customs, frequently written as farcical narrative that parodies not only scripture and rites itself but also the perceived importance or relevance of such scripture and customs. Invisible Pink Unicorn scripture and customs seek to evoke the mysticism of the unicorn and to simultaneously lampoon similar literature in other faiths per the IPU's main tenet.\n\n"}
{"id": "16110111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16110111", "title": "John of Reading", "text": "John of Reading\n\nJohn of Reading (; died 1346) was an English Franciscan theologian and scholastic philosopher. He was an early opponent of William of Ockham, and a follower of Duns Scotus. He wrote a commentary on the \"Sentences\" around 1320, at the University of Oxford. He argued for the unity of science. \n\nIn 1322 he moved to a teaching position at Avignon, then the seat of the Avignon Papacy. Reading is buried at Avignon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33466026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33466026", "title": "Jose Acacio de Barros", "text": "Jose Acacio de Barros\n\nJosé Acacio de Barros (born 1967, Barra Mansa, RJ, Brazil) is a Brazilian-American physicist and philosopher with contributions to the foundations of quantum mechanics, quantum cosmology, and quantum cognition. Dr. de Barros received his PhD in Physics from the Centro Brasileiro de Pesquisas Fisicas (CBPF) in 1991 under the supervision of Francisco Antonio Doria and Antonio Fernandes da Fonseca Teixeira (he was also informally under the supervision of Newton da Costa). Since 2007 he has been in the Liberal Studies faculty of San Francisco State University. Before going to San Francisco, he was an Associate Professor of Physics at the Federal University at Juiz de Fora, Brazil, and he was a Visiting Associate Professor at the Center for the Study of Language and Information at Stanford University, and has also held visiting positions at the Centro Brasileiro de Pesquisas Fisicas. Dr. de Barros has been a long-term collaborator of Philosopher Patrick Suppes, with whom he published extensively on the foundations of quantum mechanics and joint probabilities. Among his most influential work is his joint research with Nelson Pinto-Neto, in which Bohm's interpretation of quantum mechanics was applied to quantum cosmology, paving the way for bouncing models using realistic interpretation of quantum mechanics. His recent work attempts to give a neurophysiological foundation to quantum-like effects in psychology. He is also among the main proponents, in collaboration with Gary Oas, of the use of negative probabilities to understand quantum systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "23484105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23484105", "title": "Juan Manuel Guillén", "text": "Juan Manuel Guillén\n\nJuan Manuel Guillén Benavides (born November 24, 1941) is a Peruvian philosopher and politician. In 2007, he became President of the Arequipa Region.\n\nGuillén was born on November 24, 1941 in Arequipa city. Guillén's initial education was at school Nº9513 and Nº951 followed by the Colegio Nacional Independencia Americana. Between 1960 and 1964, Guillén studied philosophy at the National University of St Augustin of Arequipa (UNSA), earning a PhD. From 1973 to 1975, Guillén was director of the philosophy program at UNSA.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2002, Guillén was mayor of Arequipa. He was credited with leading the 2002 protests against plans to privatize the region's electrical utilities. Guillén was President of the Arequipa region from January 2007 through June 2010, and again from October 2010 through December 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16687621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16687621", "title": "Kali's Child", "text": "Kali's Child\n\nKali's Child: The Mystical and the Erotic in the Life and Teachings of Ramakrishna is a book on the Indian mystic Ramakrishna by Hindu studies scholar Jeffrey J. Kripal, published in 1995 by the University of Chicago press. It argues for a homoerotic strain in Ramakrishna's life, rituals, and teachings.\n\nThe book won the American Academy of Religion's History of Religions Prize for the Best First Book of 1995. It has been criticised by Ramakrishna's followers and several scholars, and became the object of an intense controversy among both Western and Indian audiences. Critics have argued that the book's conclusions were arrived at through mistranslation of Bengali, misunderstanding of tantra, and misuse of psychoanalysis. Two attempts have been made to have the book banned in India, in 1996 and 2001, but did not pass in the Parliament. Kripal published a second edition in 1998 and several essays and rebuttals, but as of 2004 the controversy still continued.\n\nThe book was developed from Kripal's Ph.D. dissertation on Ramakrishna at the University of Chicago, advised by Wendy Doniger. According to Kripal, he adopted a Freudian approach to uncover the connections between tantric and psychoanalytic hermeneutical traditions. In the preface, Kripal writes that he was fascinated and interested in the relation between \"human sexuality and mystical experience\". He also mentions that \"Kali's Child\" was influenced by Wendy Doniger whose, \"voluminous work, both in its rhetoric style and its erotic content provided me with a scholarly context, a genre if you will, in which I could write and defend my own ideas.\"\n\nThe primary thesis of \"Kali's Child\" is that a Ramakrishna's mystical experiences were generated by the lingering results of childhood traumas, and sublimated homoerotic and pedophiliac passions; and that \"Ramakrishna’s mystical experiences...were in actual fact profoundly, provocatively, scandalously erotic.\" Kripal has argued that the same view was expressed 12 years earlier by Malcolm McLean, in his English translation of the \"Kathamrita\".\n\nKripal examines a series of remarks made by Ramakrishna to some of his intimate disciples regarding his mystical experiences and visions which, following Ramakrishna, he calls \"secret talks\" (\"guhya katha\"). Kripal argues that Ramakrishna's attitudes and orientations were well known to some of his contemporaries (though not to Ramakrishna himself) and were hidden and suppressed, initially by his own disciples and later by members of the Ramakrishna Order. He argues a systematic whitewashing of details and a general cover-up carried out by the biographers and translators of Ramakrishna.\n\nThe book won the American Academy of Religion's History of Religions Prize for the Best First Book of 1995. In the following years, the book was reviewed in several Western academic journals of religion and South Asian culture. In 1999, the Bengali scholar Brian Hatcher wrote that while several reviewers expressed some misgivings, their overall evaluation of \"Kali's Child\" was positive, and at times highly laudatory, including one in 1997 by Malcolm McLean, a scholar of Bengali literature who has translated the \"Sri-Sri-Ramakrishna-Kathamrta\" and the poetry of Ramprasad. Hatcher cited a sample Bengali text from the Kathāmṛta in his own article, arguing that Kripal accurately translated the passage in a way that Swami Nikhilananda's translation did not.\n\nOn the other hand, in 1995 Cambridge scholar Jean Openshaw criticized Kripal's book for what she saw as \"sleight of hand by which strained or confessedly speculative arguments are subsequently transformed into a firm base for further such arguments\". She also faulted the book for \"slippage between an entirely appropriate scepticism towards the sources, and an unthinking acceptance of them when it suits the argument\". In her opinion, Ramakrishna could not be regarded as a misogynist. She found Kripal's familiarity with a variety of Bengali texts \"impressive\", but noted several translation slips. For example, Kripal wrote that the faith of an associate of Ramakrishna had \"homoerotic dimensions\" on the grounds that he \"liked to look at pictures of men, for they aroused in him feelings of 'tenderness' and 'love'\". Openshaw wrote that the word \"manus\" which Kripal had translated as \"men\" actually means \"human being\" without gender specificity. She also noted that Kripal had taken \"body\" (\"ga-\" or \"an\"+\"ga\") and \"lap\" (\"kol\") to mean \"genitals\" and \"a normally defiled sexual space\", whereas in Bengali culture the lap has a strong maternal association. In her view, Kripal had fallen \"into a reductionist trap by sexualising his language in a way quite inappropriate to the material.\" She wrote that Kripal's disclaimer \"certainly many of my conclusions are speculative\", but did not agree with his statement that \"taken together their combined weight adds up to a convincing argument\".\n\nRajat Kanta Ray, a Bengali scholar in his 1997 review wrote that the historical evidence Kripal offers in favour of Ramakrishna’s homosexuality is \"shaky\" and some of Kripal's own evidence \"seems to contradict it, and opens up the possibility of an alternative interpretation. A number of his translations from the primary text-Ramakrishna Kathamrita-are wrong; his psychoanalytical proceedings with the text, without the verifications psychoanalysts derive from patients under the ’free-association method’, fills me with doubt, especially as regards his identifications of some Tantrik symbols.\" Ray writes that \"here and there\" in the Kathamrita, he comes across \"evidence which does not fit\", and which ought to have made Kripal \"rethink his formulations.\"\n\nIn his 1997 review, Bhaskar Mukhopadhyay of Goldsmiths, University of London begins by describing Kali's Child's as an \"invigorating read\" and an \"iconoclastic thesis ... supported by solid textual scholarship\". Despite this initial impression, Mukhopadhyay found Kirpals's method of 'reading' Ramakrishna's life to be problematic. Mukhopadhyay criticizes Kripal’s method of \"sexualisation\" of Ramakrishna’s body and writes that Kripal does not take culture into consideration. Mukhopadhyay writes, \"I demand that Ramakrishna’s visions be taken at their face value and not interpreted as some kind of a confused expression of his sexuality.\" Criticizing the \"obvious glee in Kripal's tone which sometimes verges on flippancy\", Mukhopadhyay continues, \"Ramakrishna is a very serious matter and real theoretical sophistication is needed to deal with this enigmatic character. With his pop psychoanalysis, bop prose and a crude sense of humour, Kripal is nowhere near those serious scholars...\". Towards the end, he writes that the book has \"enough nuisance value to perturb\nthose who are at the helm of affairs at Ramakrishna Mission.\"\n\nIn 1997, Gerald Larson of Indiana University wrote that Kripal's book lacked balance and proper contextualization, and considered that it fell into the trap of monocausal reductionism. In his opinion, the book would have been much more balanced if Kripal had sought a review outside the context of his teachers and colleagues, including the Swamis of the Ramakrishna Mission (but not allow them to censor) and professionals within the psychoanalytic community. Larson attributed the problem of reductionism to the attitude pervading the American Academy of Religion on the relation between modern secular intellectuals and believing communities. He wrote that psychoanalytic interpretations are \"exceedingly problematic even with the extensive and current evidence of daily psychoanalytic therapy\" and that psychoanalysts would be very cautious about asserting relationships between sexual fantasies and mystical or religious experience. On the whole, Larson argued that Kripal's thesis, of \"Ramakrishna's homosexual tendencies\" having determined the manner in which he created his self-defined states, was \"thoroughly implausible\" and that a psychoanalyst would be unlikely to say that Ramakrishna's \"homoerotic energies\" \"were\" his mysticism. Larson wrote that the evidence presented in the book did not support \"a cause-effect relation between the erotic and the mystical (or the religious), much less an identity\".\n\nIn a 1997 review, Pravrajika Vrajaprana discussed Kripal reliance on unreliable sources, such as a report of \"a particularly bizarre method Ramakrishna supposedly used to control lust\", which Kripal at one point \"doubt[ed] seriously\" the incident ever occurred, but which he later used to confirm his conclusion.\n\nWilliam Radice wrote in early 1998 that \"[Ramakrishna's] homosexual leanings and his horror of women as lovers should not be the issue: there was plenty of evidence before the exposure of the \"guhya katha\" [\"secret talk\"]. Radice compared the book to a \"majar kuti\" (\"mansion of fun\"), wrote that \"occasionally one stops to ask if one has not been hoodwinked by the charm of [Kripal's] arguments\", and wondered whether the book could be a game \"no more playful than Ramakrishna's own earthy banter\".\n\nReviewer Hugh Urban criticized Kripal for ignoring the social and historical context of late nineteenth-century Bengal. Urban also criticized Kripal for what he saw as a \"tendency toward sensationalism and at times an almost journalistic delight in playing on the \"sexy,\" \"seedy,\" \"scandalous,\" and shocking nature of his material\".\n\nControversy over the book left the bounds of academia in January 1997, when \"The Statesman\", Calcutta's leading English-language newspaper, published a full-page review of the book by historian Narasingha Sil (whom Kripal had thanked in the preface of \"Kali's Child\") that ended with the words \"plain shit\". Sil himself had previously written a psychoanalytic study of Ramakrishna, which suggested that Ramakrishna's mystical experiences were pathological and originated from alleged childhood sexual trauma. According to Hugh Urban, Sil's \"Statesman\" review of \"Kali's Child\" presented Kripal as \"a shoddy scholar with a perverse imagination who has thoughtlessly 'ransacked' another culture\". \"The Asian Age\" also published a negative review by its editor, Tapti Roy, in the same year.\n\nIn a 1997 letter to a Ramakrishna Mission official (published in 2001), Narasingha Sil added a negative view of Kripal's scholarship and proficiency in the Bengali. Sil argued that Kripal translated Bengali terms through Bengali-English dictionaries by picking the meanings that would be most appropriate to make his point, disregarding the primary, secondary, tertiary meanings. He also argued that Kripal was unable even to converse in Bengali. In another 1997 article, Sil charged Kripal with \"willful distortion and manipulation of sources\", and with, while criticising Swami Nikhilananda's translation of the \"Kathamrita\", having \"committed similar crime[s] of omission and commission to suit his thesis.\"\n\nSil's review in the \"Statesman\" provoked a flurry of angry letters to the editors. The daily published 38 of them and then decided to close the issue, apparently an unprecedented decision in the newspaper's history. Kripal wrote that Willian Radice twice tried to publish a defence of the book in the \"Statesman\", but the editors refused to do so. Kripal soon found himself and the book embroiled in a long-running dispute. Censoring the book was even debated (unsuccessfully) in the Parliament of India. Kripal claimed, however, that less than 100 copies had been sold in India and only a few thousands in the US; and that few of its \"opponents\" had actually read the book.\n\nA critical review of Kripal's book was published in 1997 by Ramakrishna Mission's Swami Atmajnanananda. He argued that Kripal's book contained many translation and interpretation errors, such as translating \"māgi\" as \"bitch\" instead of \"woman\". Atmajnananda argued that Kripal had mis-interpreted many of the passages that he had cited, sometimes interpolating words in the translation that were not present in the original. He wrote, for example, that Krishna's traditional depiction in Hindu iconography, the \"tribhanga\" pose, \"bent in three places\" (i.e., bent at the knee, waist and elbow, with flute in hand) which is sacred to Hindus, had been translated by Kripal as \"cocked hips\". He wrote that Kripal's thesis was \"nothing more than smoke and mirrors, a house of cards which collapses at the merest touch\".\n\nAtmajnananda also disputed Kripal's arguments of concealment of sources by the Ramakrishna Order.\n\nKripal published a second edition of \"Kali's Child\" in 1998. In its preface he claimed to have corrected the translation errors pointed out by Atmajnananda. Kripal called the corrections \"a set of minor errors\" which he \"happily corrected\", since they did not contradict his main thesis.\n\nIn a 1998 response to Gerald Larson's review, Kripal denied the critic's claims that his final conclusions were monocausally reductive, saying that Larson had seriously misunderstood him, as in \"Kali's Child\" he had adopted a \"nondual methodology\" and expressed \"consistent rejection of Freudian reductionism\". Kripal argued that Larson lifted a few lines out of context to show that Kripal's concluding analysis was a \"reductionistic reading\". for Larson's suggestion that he should have \"vetted\" the text to the Ramakrishna Mission before publishing it, Kripal cited Christopher Isherwood, who wrote in 1981 that \"there were limits\" to what he could say in \"Ramakrishna and His Disciples\" once the book became a project of the Order. Kripal wrote about other similar incidents and argued to have avoided submitting is book to the Mission in order to protect his own intellectual freedom. Kripal argued that if he had done so, he \"indeed would not, \"could not\", have written [Kali's Child], but not because of some idealized balance\" but because he \"would have been too afraid\".\n\nIn a rejoinder Larson added that by \"vetting\", he did not mean any sort of \"public\" debate or confrontation. Larson maintained that reductionism would have been avoided if Kripal has selected one or two Swamis within the Ramakrishna order and one or two practising psychoanalysts for some \"critical feedback\" prior to the publication of the manuscript and they would have alerted him to the \"serious problems of lack of balance and reductionism that are readily apparent in his 'Conclusion: Analyzing the Secret.'\" Larson also disagreed with Kripal that he had lifted a few lines out of context to indicate \"reductionistic reading\", wrote that he \"invite[d] any reader to read the book's conclusion in order to determine whether the final analysis is reductionist or not\", and argued that the conclusions were \"doubly reductionist.\"\n\nIn 2000, Swami Tyagananda, minister of the Ramakrishna-Vedanta Society in Boston and a Hindu chaplain at Harvard University produced a tract entitled \"“Kali’s Child Revisited or Didn’t Anyone Check the Documentation,”\" which was distributed at the 2000 annual meeting of AAR and later published in journal \"Evam\". In the long, meticulously argued tract, Tyagananda questioned Kripal's linguistic competence of the Bengali language on which the thesis was built and argued that Kripal had distorted the meaning of passages throughout the \"Kathamrita\". Tyagananda also argued about other alleged errors by Kripal. For example, Kripal had called \"boy\" a devotee Kedar who, according to Tyaganada, was actually a fifty-year-old accountant; \"boy of fifteen\" a person of thirty-four or thirty-five years; and \"boy disciples\" a group of people in their forties. He asserted that Kripal's claims of child eroticism had been built on these mistranslations.\n\nIn 2010, Swami Tyagananda and Pravrajika Vrajaprana wrote \"\".\nIn this book, the authors argued with cross-references to the source texts that Kripal had a \"piecemeal\" knowledge of the Bengali language and lack of understanding of the Bengali culture, which led him to misinterpret the texts and fabricate a Ramakrishna conforming to his own \"feels like\" factor rather than a historical figure preserved well through honest documentation. They disputed positive reviews by Western academics writing that the \"great majority of those who accepted the latter thesis were not in a position to assess the translation since most of the reviewers were not Bengali readers.\" They wrote that its \"extremely unlikely\" that any reviewer did a \"close or extensive comparison\" of the \"Kathamrita\" with that of Nikhilananda and Kripal's translations.\n\nResponding to Swami Tyagananda's \"Kali's Child Revisited\", Kripal wrote:\nKripal complained that Tyagananda's questioning of his personal motives for writing the book turned the critique into an \"ad hominem\" attack, and denied Tyagananda's charges of \"willful distortion and manipulation of sources\" and \"purposefully deceitful use of citations.\" He wrote to \"deeply regret\" the fact that his book has offended many Hindus, but claimed that this fact says nothing about the historical Ramakrishna, \"just as the offended responses of innumerable pious Christians [to academic investigations of Jesus] tell us absolutely nothing about the historical Jesus\". He also denied having any negative attitude about homosexuality or Ramakrishna, and suggested that Tyagananda's reading of his book \"as an ill-intentioned condemnation of Ramakrishna\" was not shared by \"numerous reviewers and readers (with Hindus among them)\". He argued that he had never called Ramakrishna \"a homosexual\" and \"never argued something as simplistic as that Ramakrishna 'sexually abused children' or that he was a 'pederast'\", and that \"these are other people’s words\" but not his. He also charged Tyagananda with misquoting his words (such as claiming that Kripal had used \"sodomy\" when he in fact had not) and argued that he had omitting from his own citations of the \"Kathamrita\" parts that would support Kripal's thesis.\n\nAs for the alleged translation errors, Kripal argued that he had corrected many of them in the second edition, acknowledged that others still needed to be corrected (such as those about the ages of some persons) and that he would \"be happy to make any appropriate corrections in any future printings\". He denied that any of those errors had been intentional, and argued that all of them could be easily corrected without altering the substance or conclusions of the book, as they amounted to a very small part of the material he had used to demonstrate his thesis. On the other hand, he argued that many of them were not \"errors\" but simply different interpretations, and that he still stood by them. He counter-charged Tyagananda and other critics with \"textual literalism\" by sticking only with the primary meanings of words like \"uddipana\", \"tribhanga\", \"tana\", \"vyakulata\", \"rati\", and \"ramana\", not recognizing their alternate meanings; so that his was not \"mistranslation\" but rather \"good translation\". Additionally, Kripal argued (following modern literary theory) that all interpretations, his own included, are products of the interaction of the reader’s horizon of understanding with that of the author’s.\n\nConcerning the charge that he does not understand Tantra, he argued that Tyagananda’s version of Tantra is the \"right-handed\" ascetic path, as expounded by neo-Vedanta, while the Tantra of Ramakrishna's milieu was the \"left-handed\" path, which integrates the sexual with the spiritual. In the second edition of \"Kali's Child\", Kripal argued that the \"philosophical expositions\" of Tantra are inauthentic that are \"designed to rid Tantra of everything that smacked of superstition, magic, or scandal\".\n\nIn 2001, Huston Smith wrote in a letter to the editor of the \"Harvard Divinity School Bulletin\" that, \"I doubt that any other book—not even those of early, polemical, poorly informed, and bigoted missionaries — has offended Hindu sensibilities so grossly. And understandably, despite Kripal's protestations to the contrary in \"Secret Talk: The Politics of Scholarship in Hindu Tantrism\", \"Kali's Child\" is colonialism updated.\"\n\nIn 2002, religious scholar Peter Heehs wrote that there is no direct evidence of homosexuality in the \"Kathamrta\" or \"anywhere else\", and Kripal himself admits that his interpretations are often \"speculative\". Heehs wrote that the \"sensationalism\" of Kripal's approach \"vitiates the overall value of his book\", which does \"make a number of interesting points\".\n\nIn her 2001 review, Renuka Sharma of Melbourne University and a psychoanalyst disputed \"Kali's Child\" as being built upon \"veneer of psychoanalysis and symbolic deconstruction...The imperialistic use of some outdated dogmas of psychoanalysis...\" She writes that psychoanalysis employed by Kripal is \"doubtful ... as a science\".\n\nIn 2004, John Hawley revised his initial positive evaluation of \"Kali's Child\", and wrote in his study \"The Damage of Separation\" that neither the gopis’ torment nor Ramakrishna's must be allowed to devolve to a bodily level. He also argued that communities of people who respond to different sexual orientations should not indiscriminately impose their thoughts on religious communities.\n\nSomnath Bhattacharyya argued that Ramakrishna cannot be regarded as a misogynist, since he spoke about \"\"indriya sukha\" (sense pleasures), \"deha sukha\" (bodily pleasures), \"vishaya sukha\" (object gratification), \"kama\" (lust), and \"bhoga\" (enjoyment) as impediments to spiritual growth\" and not because of fear of women. Bhattacharyya also argues that Ramakrishna's lifelong love and devotion for the Goddess Kali does not fit into the homoerotic thesis.\n\nIn their 2007 book Invading the Sacred, Krishnan Ramaswamy and Antonio de Nicolas, argued that the American Academy of Religion does not have a well-informed understanding of Hinduism. Ramaswamy and de Nicolas argue that translation errors continued into the second edition of \"Kali's Child\". They argued that instead of winning a prize, Kripal's book should have been reviewed as a possible violation of academic due process and ethical norms.\n\nThe main faults that critics have argued in \"Kali's Child\" are:\n\nThe alleged translation errors include:\n\n\nCritics have argued that several instances where Kripal allegedly had misquotes or misinterpretations:\n\n\nGayatri Spivak argued that Kripal has misinterpreted \"Ramakrishna's life as a \"bhakta\", as tantric practice\" and \"unfortunately the book is so full of cultural and linguistic mis-translations that the general premise cannot be taken seriously.\"\n\nIn his 2000 extensive review, Swami Tyagananda argued that Kripal had misquoted Ramakrishna's disciple Christopher Isherwood as confirming the master's homosexuality, when Isherwood had said in fact said that he \"couldn't honestly claim him [Ramakrishna] as a homosexual, even a sublimated one\", even though he \"would have liked to be able to do so.\" According to Tyagananda, Sarkar's statement that Tantric worship (\"upasana\") is \"looking upon a woman as mother\" (\"janani ramani\") was misquoted by Kripal to mean the opposite, that the mother is the lover.\n\nSeveral critics — including Tyagananda, Sil, Urban, and Radice — argue that Kripal misrepresents Tantra to support the thesis.\nIn a 1997 article, Sil wrote that Kripal had tried \"to fit the square peg of a Tantrika Ramakrishna into the round hole of a homosexual Paramahamsa\". Urban argued that Kripal has a prejudiced view of Tantra as \"something scandalous, seedy, sexy, and dangerous\". Tyagananda argues that Kripal dismisses the \"philosophical expositions\" of Tantra as inauthentic, to support his thesis. Tyagananda argued that the Kripal's view that Ramakrishna's world was a \"Tantric world\" overlooks other religious practices undertook by Ramakrishna, such as \"Vaishnava\", \"Shakti\", \"Vedanta\", Islamism and the Christianity. Radice wrote that erotic-Tantric lens is not the only one through which the \"Kathamrta\" can be read.\" Amiya Prosad Sen writes about Kripal's \"confusion\" over chronology. Sen writes that arguments made by Kripal that some of Ramakrishna's mystic visions are but subconscious revelations of his actual Tantric experiences with Bhairavi are chronologically not possible. For instance Ramakrishna's vision describing a probing human tongue exploring—what Kripal translates as—\"vagina shaped lotuses\" as alleged sexual encounter with Bahiravi. Sen writes that this vision (around 1855–1858) was before his first meeting of Bhairavi (1861).\n\nKripal labeled some of Ramakrishna's words \"secret talk\" and believed them to be \"too troubling or important to reveal to any but [Ramakrishna's] most intimate disciples\"\n\nSeveral critics, including Tyagananda, Openshaw, Larson, and Radice object to Kripal use of the word \"secret\", which did not exist in the original source. In a 1997 review, Colin Robinson noted that the texts \"exposed\" by Kripal had been readily available in Bengali since 1932, when the final volume of the \"Kathamrita\" was published; and that Kripal used the thirty-first edition of the Kathamrita (1987).\n\nOpenshaw argued that it was highly unlikely that any act considered \"homosexual\" would have been defended by the disciples (homosexuality was rigorously repressed in Indian society of the time), let alone immortalised in print by a devotee.\n\nLarson wrote that \"Even Freud, with all of his reductionist tendencies, would have been highly suspicious and critical\" about Mahendranath Gupta's so-called \"secret\" material, if for no other reasons than the temporal distance between his notes and the publication of the \"Kathamrita\".\n\nRadice wrote of the discrepancy between the small amount of \"secret talk\" cited by Kripal (18 occurrences) and the amount of analysis he derived from them, and asked \"Has Kripal made a mountain out of molehill?\" He then quoted Kripal's claim that those passages, plus other non-\"secret\" passages that touch on similar themes, are the key to Ramakrishna's mysticism and a lens through which one can validly read the whole \"Kathamrta\".\n\nIn his extensive 2000 review, Tyagananda wrote that Ramakrishna's \"secret\" talks were neither troubling nor secret, having been said in the presence of a large number of visitors, with the doors open. According to Tyagananda, Kripal's \"secret talks\" is a mistranslation of \"guhya katha\", which in the context means the \"esoteric\" or \"deeper meaning\" of a scripture.\n\nKripal's understanding and application of psychological theory has been criticized by several experts, such as psychoanalyst Alan Roland, author of books and articles on applying psychoanalysis to eastern cultures, Somnath Bhattacharyya (emeritus professor and former head of the Psychology Department at Calcutta University), and Gerald Larson argued that neither Kripal nor his advisor Wendy Doniger were trained as psychologists and in psychoanalysis. These critics observe that neither Kripal nor Wendy Doniger are trained in psychoanalysis or psychology.\n\nRoland argued that Freudian approaches are not applicable to Asian cultures. Other critics questioned the propriety of applying Freudian analysis to third parties via native informants or posthumously.\n\nIn the 1995 edition of the book, Kripal argued that the Ramakrishna Mission was hiding or \"bowdlerizing\" key biographical sources on Ramakrishna, in order to hide inconvenient secrets. These views were denied by the Mission, and some of them were retracted by Kripal shortly thereafter.\n\nAccording to Kripal, the unusual five-volume, non-chronological structure of Mahendranath Gupta's \"Kathamrita\" was designed to \"conceal a secret\", and Gupta \"held back\" the secret in the first volume, \"hinted at\" it in the second, \"toyed with\" it in the third, \"revealed it\" in the fourth and found that he had hardly any material left for the fifth.\n\nHowever, Tyagananda wrote that portions from Gupta's diaries (which are in the possession of his descendants) were published in various Bengali journals long before they appeared in book form as the \"Kathamrita\". According to Tyagananda, there was no textual evidence that Gupta was thinking of writing a book when he began writing his diaries. He pointed out that at least four generations of Bengalis had read the \"Kathamrita\", and he wrote that their perception of Ramakrishna was in most respects diametrically opposite to the picture presented in \"Kali's Child\". Furthermore, Tyagananda wrote that Ramakrishna Mission had published a two-volume edition of the \"Kathamrita\" rearranged in chronological order, after the copyright which rested with Gupta's descendants expired.\n\nDisputing the idea that Mahendranath Gupta ran out of material, Amiya Prosad Sen writes that the fifth volume (published posthumously) had \"no note of finality\" and ended \"abruptly\". Amiya Sen writes that \"M.\" was contemplating at least six to seven volumes and after which he hoped to rearrange the entire material chronologically, within a single volume. Sen further writes that maintaining a \"strictly chronological order\" have meant postponing publication, and alternatively Gupta \"sacrificed\" chronological order to accommodate the short notice period. Sen also writes that Gupta faced other practical problems like finding a willing publisher.\n\nIn his book, Kripal also wrote that Swami Nikhilananda's \"The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna\", which purports to be \"a literal translation\" of the \"Kathamrita\", contains in fact substantial alterations from Gupta's text. Besides combining the five parallel narratives into a single volume (which is often sold as a two-volume set), Nikhilananda would also have deleted some passages (\"only a few pages\") which supposedly were \"of no particular interest to English-speaking readers\".\n\nExamples of missing passages quoted by Kripal include a declaration of Ramakrishna to a disciple: \"In that state [during a Tantric ritual with a female guru] I couldn't help but worship the little penises [\"dhan\"] of boys with flowers and sandal-paste\". Another example was the description by Ramakrishna of one of his visions, which in the Bengali original, according to Kripal, read \"This is very secret talk! I saw a boy of twenty-three exactly like me, going up the subtle channel, erotically playing [\"ramana kara\"] with the vagina-shaped [\"yoni-rupa\"] lotuses with his tongue! but was translated by Nikhilananda as \"[...] communing with lotuses with his tongue\".\n\nIn his 1997 review, Swami Atmajnanananda wrote that \"there are some other instances which, at first, seem to substantiate Kripal's cover-up theory\" but he too believed that they were all motivated by respect the Western decorum. He argued that, had Nikhilananda been fearful of revealing hidden secrets, \"he certainly would have eliminated far more of Ramakrishna's remarks than he did\". Atmajnanananda also argued that Kripal's translation of the missing parts was more misleading than Nikhilananda's omissions. In 2000, Swami Tyagananda added that Nikhilananda had attempted to faithfully convey the ideas, which might have been misunderstood if he had opted for a literal translation; and that the \"Gospel\" was translated in the 1940s and one should consider the Western sense of decorum as it existed then. Somnath Bhattacharya wrote that anybody with knowledge of Bengali could check that an overwhelming majority of the passages marked \"guhya-katha\" had been translated by Nikhilananda faithfully to the letter as well as to the spirit of the original.\n\nKripal also described the book \"Sri Sri Ramakrishna Paramahamsadever Jivanvrittanta\" by Ramchandra Dutta as a scandalous biography of Ramakrishna that was suppressed by Ramakrishna's followers.\n\nIn response, Pravrajika Vrajaprana and Swami Atmajnanananda wrote that the book had been published in nine Bengali editions as of 1995. In 1998 Kripal wrote that he had \"overplayed the degree\" of his alleged suppression, noting that \"to my wonder (and embarrassment), the Ramakrishna Order reprinted Datta's text the very same summer Kali's Child appeared, rendering my original claims of a conscious concealment untenable.\"\n\nKripal also wrote a long response to Rajiv Malhotra's essay \"RISA LILA—I:Wendy's Child Syndrome\" which argued that the Freudian psychoanalytical approach had been discredited even among Western psychologists. Kripal lamented the \"angry tone and \"ad hominem\" nature\" of the text, and charged Rajiv of spreading \"a number of falsehoods\" over the internet that involved his person and reputation, and of having got \"just about everything wrong\" about his ideas and translations, claiming that his criticisms were merely a repeat of Tyagananda's.\n\nBy late 2002, Kripal combined his primary replies on his website, and wrote:\nKripal argued that gender and spirituality are intricately linked, and that the history of mysticism in all the world's religions is erotic. Kripal argued that the mysticism of Teresa of Ávila, John of the Cross and other European Roman Catholics were erotic and similar to Ramakrishna's ecstasy. Kripal strongly denied that \"Kali's Child\" was intended as a slur either against Ramakrishna specifically or Hinduism in general. Kripal later published his second book, \"Roads of Excess, Palaces of Wisdom\" which studied the alleged eroticism in Western mysticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17710572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17710572", "title": "Karel Sabina", "text": "Karel Sabina\n\nKarel Sabina (pen names include Arian Želinský and Leo Blass) (29 December 1813 – 8 November 1877) was a Czech writer and journalist.\n\nKarel Sabina grew up in poverty as an extramarital child of a daughter of a sugar producing factory's director in the family of a bricklayer and a washerwoman. Sabina later claimed that he was an illegitimate son of a Polish noble. Studied philosophy and law, but did not graduate. In 1848 Sabina became one of the leaders of the Czech radical democrats, the founder of a secret radical political circle \"Repeal\" (the name inspired by Irish revolutionaries), a member of the National Committee and the Czech congress. Sabina published many articles (several of which were censored) to magazines during this period.\n\nIn 1849 he was arrested for taking part in the \"May Coup\" (a plan to make an uprising, inspired by Bakunin, then present in Prague) and in 1851 sentenced to death together with 24 other men; but these sentences were changed by the Emperor to 18 years in the Olomouc prison; in 1857 he was released, following the Emperor's general amnesty of May 8. He came back to Prague and lived as a freelance writer.\n\nIn 1870 the newspaper \"Vaterland\" accused Sabina of being a police informant. Sabina successfully sued the newspaper for a libel. In 1872, in an unofficial trial by a self-appointed jury of eight Czech intellectuals (including Jan Neruda and Vítězslav Hálek), Karel Sabina was found guilty of being an informant. Sabina, unable to find exile abroad, was forced to live in hiding in Prague. For the rest of his life, Karel Sabina denied the accusations. The reasons of Sabina's alleged cooperation with the police are not quite clear; if it happened, it might have been a combination of disillusion with the failed revolution which resulted in his long imprisonment, constant police pressure afterwards and his extreme poverty. Being an outcast - his books were no longer sold, on posters (such as the one for the \"Prodaná nevěsta\" - whose libretto was seen by some people as Sabina's refutation of the accusations until Miroslav Ivanov's investigation in 1971 published in Ivanov's book \"Labyrint\" proved them incorrect) his name was replaced by his initials, and he risked physical attacks whenever he appeared on the streets. However, he continued to write under pen names, some of which are unknown today, thus greatly complicating the historians' effort to make Sabina's bibliography of articles complete.\n\nSabina died in poverty and scorn in 1877, the general exhaustion being given as the cause of death.\n\nAs a journalist, he wrote mainly for \"Květy\", \"Moravský Týdenník\", \"Humorist\", \"Lípa\", \"Pražské noviny\" and \"Wčela\" (he was an editor in the last two, replacing Karel Havlíček Borovský in both of them).\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKarel Sabina is mentioned in several poems in prose by Ivan Wernisch.\n\n"}
{"id": "50152188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50152188", "title": "Klaus Döring", "text": "Klaus Döring\n\nKlaus Döring (born 5 April 1938 in Hamburg) is a German classical philologist and philosophical historian.\n\nDöring studied Classical philology, philosophy and musicology at the Universities of Kiel, Würzburg, Hamburg and Freiburg from 1957 to 1964. In 1964 he took the first state examination in Greek and Latin. From 1966, he wrked at the University of Freiburg, initially in an assistant position. After he received his doctorate in 1970, he became an Academic Assistant. In 1976 he achieved his habilitation in classical philology at Freiburg. From 1978 to 1980 he completed a clerkship at the South Baden higher education authority. In 1980 he was appointed to the academic council of the University of Freiburg.\n\nIn 1981, Döring became Professor of Classical Philology (Greek) at the University of Bamberg. In 2003 he retired.\n\nDöring's research focus was ancient Greek philology and its contemporary reception. He focussed on the various philosophical schools and movements (Sophism, Socrates, the Socratics, Plato, Cynicism and Stoicism). Until 1999 he was editor of the (AKAN) series with Bernard Herzhoff and Georg Wöhrle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "652038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652038", "title": "Language of thought hypothesis", "text": "Language of thought hypothesis\n\nThe language of thought hypothesis (LOTH), sometimes known as thought ordered mental expression (TOME), is a view in linguistics, philosophy of mind and cognitive science, forwarded by American philosopher Jerry Fodor. It describes the nature of thought as possessing \"language-like\" or compositional structure (sometimes known as \"mentalese\"). On this view, simple concepts combine in systematic ways (akin to the rules of grammar in language) to build thoughts. In its most basic form, the theory states that thought, like language, has syntax.\n\nUsing empirical data drawn from linguistics and cognitive science to describe mental representation from a philosophical vantage-point, the hypothesis states that thinking takes place in a language of thought (LOT): cognition and cognitive processes are only 'remotely plausible' when expressed as a system of representations that is \"tokened\" by a linguistic or semantic structure and operated upon by means of a combinatorial syntax. Linguistic tokens used in mental language describe elementary concepts which are operated upon by logical rules establishing causal connections to allow for complex thought. Syntax as well as semantics have a causal effect on the properties of this system of mental representations.\n\nThese mental representations are not present in the brain in the same way as symbols are present on paper; rather, the LOT is supposed to exist at the cognitive level, the level of thoughts and concepts. The LOTH has wide-ranging significance for a number of domains in cognitive science. It relies on a version of functionalist materialism, which holds that mental representations are actualized and modified by the individual holding the propositional attitude, and it challenges eliminative materialism and connectionism. It implies a strongly rationalist model of cognition in which many of the fundamentals of cognition are innate.\n\nThe hypothesis applies to thoughts that have propositional content, and is not meant to describe everything that goes on in the mind. It appeals to the representational theory of thought to explain what those tokens actually are and how they behave. There must be a mental representation that stands in some unique relationship with the subject of the representation and has specific content. Complex thoughts get their semantic content from the content of the basic thoughts and the relations that they hold to each other. Thoughts can only relate to each other in ways that do not violate the syntax of thought. The syntax by means of which these two sub-parts are combined can be expressed in first-order predicate calculus.\n\nThe thought \"John is tall\" is clearly composed of two sub-parts, the concept of John and the concept of tallness, combined in a manner that may be expressed in first-order predicate calculus as a predicate 'T' (\"is tall\") that holds of the entity 'j' (John). A fully articulated proposal for what a LOT would have to take into account greater complexities such as quantification and propositional attitudes (the various attitudes people can have towards statements; for example I might \"believe\" or \"see\" or merely \"suspect\" that John is tall).\n\n\nThe language of thought hypothesis has been both controversial and groundbreaking. Some philosophers reject the LOTH, arguing that our public language \"is\" our mental language—a person who speaks English \"thinks\" in English. But others contend that complex thought is present even in those who do not possess a public language (e.g. babies, aphasics, and even higher-order primates), and therefore some form of mentalese must be innate. \n\nThe notion that mental states are causally efficacious diverges from behaviorists like Gilbert Ryle, who held that there is no break between the cause of mental state and effect of behavior. Rather, Ryle proposed that people act in some way because they are in a disposition to act in that way, that these causal mental states are representational. An objection to this point comes from John Searle in the form of biological naturalism, a non-representational theory of mind that accepts the causal efficacy of mental states. Searle divides intentional states into low-level brain activity and high-level mental activity. The lower-level, nonrepresentational neurophysiological processes have causal power in intention and behavior rather than some higher-level mental representation.\n\nTim Crane, in his book \"The Mechanical Mind\", states that, while he agrees with Fodor, his reason is very different. A logical objection challenges LOTH’s explanation of how sentences in natural languages get their meaning. That is the view that “Snow is white” is TRUE if and only if \"P\" is TRUE in the LOT, where \"P\" means the same thing in LOT as “Snow is white” means in the natural language. Any symbol manipulation is in need of some way of deriving what those symbols mean. If the meaning of sentences is explained regarding sentences in the LOT, then the meaning of sentences in LOT must get their meaning from somewhere else. There seems to be an infinite regress of sentences getting their meaning. Sentences in natural languages get their meaning from their users (speakers, writers). Therefore, sentences in mentalese must get their meaning from the way in which they are used by thinkers and so on \"ad infinitum\". This regress is often called the homunculus regress.\n\nDaniel Dennett accepts that homunculi may be explained by other homunculi and denies that this would yield an infinite regress of homunculi. Each explanatory homunculus is “stupider” or more basic than the homunculus it explains, but this regress is not infinite but bottoms out at a basic level that is so simple that it does not need interpretation. John Searle points out that it still follows that the bottom-level homunculi are manipulating some sorts of symbols.\n\nLOTH implies that the mind has some tacit knowledge of the logical rules of inference and the linguistic rules of syntax (sentence structure) and semantics (concept or word meaning). If LOTH cannot show that the mind knows that it is following the particular set of rules in question, then the mind is not computational because it is not governed by computational rules. Also, the apparent incompleteness of this set of rules in explaining behavior is pointed out. Many conscious beings behave in ways that are contrary to the rules of logic. Yet this irrational behavior is not accounted for by any rules, showing that there is at least some behavior that does not act by this set of rules.\n\nAnother objection within representational theory of mind has to do with the relationship between propositional attitudes and representation. Dennett points out that a chess program can have the attitude of “wanting to get its queen out early,” without having representation or rule that explicitly states this. A multiplication program on a computer computes in the computer language of 1’s and 0’s, yielding representations that do not correspond with any propositional attitude.\n\nSusan Schneider has recently developed a version of LOT that departs from Fodor's approach in numerous ways. In her book, The Language of Thought: a New Philosophical Direction, Schneider argues that Fodor's pessimism about the success of cognitive science is misguided, and she outlines an approach to LOT that integrates LOT with neuroscience. She also stresses that LOT that is not wedded to the extreme view that all concepts are innate. She fashions a new theory of mental symbols, and a related two-tiered theory of concepts, in which a concept's nature is determined by its LOT symbol type and its meaning.\n\nConnectionism is an approach to artificial intelligence that often accepts a lot of the same theoretical framework that LOTH accepts, namely that mental states are computational and causally efficacious and very often that they are representational. However, connectionism stresses the possibility of thinking machines, most often realized as artificial neural networks, an inter-connectional set of nodes, and describes mental states as able to create memory by modifying the strength of these connections over time. Some popular types of neural networks are interpretations of units, and learning algorithm. \"Units\" can be interpreted as neurons or groups of neurons. A learning algorithm is such that, over time, a change in connection weight is possible, allowing networks to modify their connections. Connectionist neural networks are able to change over time via their activation. An activation is a numerical value that represents any aspect of a unit that a neural network has at any time. Activation spreading is the spreading or taking over of other over time of the activation to all other units connected to the activated unit.\n\nSince connectionist models can change over time, supporters of connectionism claim that it can solve the problems that LOTH brings to classical AI. These problems are those that show that machines with a LOT syntactical framework very often are much better at solving problems and storing data than human minds, yet much worse at things that the human mind is quite adept at such as recognizing facial expressions and objects in photographs and understanding nuanced gestures. Fodor defends LOTH by arguing that a connectionist model is just some realization or implementation of the classical computational theory of mind and therein necessarily employs a symbol-manipulating LOT.\n\nFodor and Zenon Pylyshyn use the notion of cognitive architecture in their defense. Cognitive architecture is the set of basic functions of an organism with representational input and output. They argue that it is a law of nature that cognitive capacities are productive, systematic and inferentially coherent—they have the ability to produce and understand sentences of a certain structure if they can understand one sentence of that structure. A cognitive model must have a cognitive architecture that explains these laws and properties in some way that is compatible with the scientific method. Fodor and Pylyshyn say that cognitive architecture can only explain the property of systematicity by appealing to a system of representations and that connectionism either employs a cognitive architecture of representations or else does not. If it does, then connectionism uses LOT. If it does not then it is empirically false.\n\nConnectionists have responded to Fodor and Pylyshyn by denying that connectionism uses LOT, by denying that cognition is essentially a function that uses representational input and output or denying that systematicity is a law of nature that rests on representation.\n\nSince LOTH came to be it has been empirically tested. Not all experiments have confirmed the hypothesis;\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "368946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368946", "title": "Legal ethics", "text": "Legal ethics\n\nLegal ethics, principles of conduct that members of the legal profession are expected to observe in their practice. They are an outgrowth of the development of the legal profession itself.\n\nIn the U.S., each state or territory has a code of professional conduct dictating rules of ethics. These may be adopted by the respective state legislatures and/or judicial systems. The American Bar Association has promulgated the Model Rules of Professional Conduct which, while formally only a recommendation by a private body, have been influential in many jurisdictions. The Model Rules address many topics which are found in state ethics rules, including the \"client-lawyer relationship\", duties of a lawyer as \"advocate\" in adversary proceedings, dealings \"with persons other than clients\", \"law firms and associations\", \"public service\", \"advertising\", and \"maintaining the integrity of the profession\". Respect of client confidences, candor toward the tribunal, truthfulness in statements to others, and professional independence are some of the defining features of legal ethics.\n\nThe Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination (MPRE) is used to measure examinees' knowledge and understanding of established standards related to the professional conduct of lawyers. The MPRE is a prerequisite or corequisite to the bar examination for admission as an attorney at law in 48 of the 50 states of the United States, as well as the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Republic of Palau. Of the 56 jurisdictions within the United States, only Maryland, Puerto Rico, and Wisconsin do not use the MPRE; however, these jurisdictions still incorporate local ethics rules in their respective bar examinations.\n\nMaynard Pirsig, published one of the first course books on legal ethics, \"Cases and Materials on Legal Ethics\", 1949. Maynard Pirsig also published the definition of \"Legal Ethics,\" in \"Encyclopedia Britannica\", 1974.\n\nSome U.S. states, including New York, require applicants seeking to become attorneys to have taken a course in professional responsibility during law school.\n\nEvery state in the United States has a regulatory body (usually called a state bar association) that polices lawyer conduct. When lawyers are licensed to practice in a state, those lawyers subject themselves to this authority. Overall responsibility often lies with the highest court in a state (such as state supreme court). The state bar associations, often in consultation with the court, adopt a set of rules that set forth the applicable ethical duties. As of 2013, 48 states have adopted a version of the American Bar Association's model rules. California is the only state that has not adopted either—instead these states have written their own rules from scratch. There was once some debate over whether state ethical rules apply to federal prosecutors. The Department of Justice has held differing opinions through different administrations, with the Thornburgh Memo suggesting these rules do not apply, and the Reno Rules asserting that they do apply. Now, 28 U.S.C. § 530B provides that government attorneys are subject to the state ethics laws in the state in which they practice.\n\nLawyers who fail to comply with local rules of ethics may be subjected to discipline ranging from private (non-public) reprimand to disbarment.\n\nIn India, under the Advocates Act of 1961, the Bar Council of India is responsible for creating rules for registering advocates, regulation of legal ethics, and for administering disciplinary action.\n\nIn New South Wales, reforms commencing from July 1, 2015 brought a uniform regulatory system to the legal profession regarding billing arrangements, discipline procedures and complaints handling processing. An inter jurisdictional Legal Services Council was established in order to regulate the legal profession and its delivery of legal services. This resulted in the creation of the Legal Profession Uniform Law Australian Solicitors’ Conduct Rules 2015 and the Legal Profession Uniform Conduct Barristers' Rules 2015.\n\nThe States and Territories of Australia are regulated through co-regulation, self-regulation and independent regulation. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "25259314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25259314", "title": "Levi Hedge", "text": "Levi Hedge\n\nLevi Hedge (April 19, 1766 – January 3, 1844) was an American educator.\n\nLevi Hedge was born in Hardwick, Massachusetts. He graduated from Harvard University in 1792. His independent stand against hazing while still a student was instrumental in ridding Harvard of the injustice associated with its \"hat law\". He was a Teacher at Westford Academy in Westford, MA from 1792 - 1794 (3)\n\nHe was appointed a tutor at Harvard in 1795. In 1801, he married Mary Kneeland, with whom he had eight children, including Frederic Henry Hedge, who became a clergyman, transcendentalist, scholar of German literature, and also a Harvard professor. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1805. In 1810, Hedge became professor of logic and metaphysics. He was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1816. He published \"Elements of Logick\" (Cambridge, 1816), which went through many editions, and was translated into German. In 1827 he moved to the Alford professorship of natural religion, moral philosophy, and civil polity. That year, also prepared an abridgment of Thomas Brown's \"Mental Philosophy\" (1827). An attack of paralysis compelled him to resign from Harvard in 1830. He died in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1844.\n\n"}
{"id": "14023243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14023243", "title": "List of Turkish philosophers and scientists", "text": "List of Turkish philosophers and scientists\n\nThis is a list of Turkish philosophers and scholars .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7950118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7950118", "title": "List of schools of philosophy", "text": "List of schools of philosophy\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13132439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13132439", "title": "Martial Gueroult", "text": "Martial Gueroult\n\nMartial Gueroult (; 15 December 1891 – 13 August 1976) was a French philosopher of the early and mid- 20th Century. His primary areas of research were in 17th- and 18th-century philosophy as well as the history of philosophy.\n\nGueroult was born on 15 December 1891 in the city of Le Havre in northwestern France. A veteran of both the First and Second World Wars, he was awarded the Légion d’Honneur [Legion of Honour] and twice with the Croix de Guerre [Cross of War]. It was during his time as a prisoner of war in Germany that Gueroult began drafting his first philosophical work on Johann Gottlieb Fichte, later to become \"L’Évolution et la structure de la doctrine de la science chez Fichte\" [\"The Evolution and Structure of Fichte’s Doctrine of Science\"].\n\nGueroult’s first academic appointment was to the University of Strasbourg. In the 1930s, Gueroult spent some time at the University of São Paulo in Brazil where he worked along with other French intellectuals such as Roger Bastide, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Pierre Monbeig and Ferdinand Braudel to develop the newly founded university’s social science programs. He would return to France to accept a position at the Sorbonne but in 1951, was named successor to Étienne Gilson at the Collège de France. Gueroult re-titled his position as \"Histoire et technologie des systèmes philosophiques\" [\"History and Technology of Philosophical Systems\"] and it is here he would remain until his retirement in 1962.\n\nGueroult's work was characterized by a close attention to the History of Philosophy---which he considered as noble as philosophy itself—as well as a strong demand for systematicity. He also refused philosophical recourse to transcendence. A polemical debate opposed him to Ferdinand Alquié concerning Descartes, as Gueroult was studying him \"according to the order of reasons\" (synchronically), while Alquié was more interested in his historical evolution, studying him diachronically. Gueroult was interested in the \"conditions of possibility of a history of philosophy\" in general. He died before completing his opus titled \"Dianoématique\", which was composed of two books, the first one being titled \"History of the history of philosophy\" and the second one \"Philosophy of the history of philosophy\". The second volume asked the question: how is a history of philosophy possible, given that philosophy aims as studying eternal truths, and that history is a school of skepticism?\n\nGueroult's influence has primarily been confined to France where his works have come to be seen as classics in the history of philosophy. He was highly influential on the thought of 20th-century French thinkers such as Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Jules Vuillemin, Michel Foucault, Pierre Bourdieu, Gilles Deleuze and Geneviève Rodis-Lewis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1439425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1439425", "title": "Michael Ruse", "text": "Michael Ruse\n\nMichael Ruse, (born 21 June 1940) is a British-born Canadian philosopher of science who specializes in the philosophy of biology and works on the relationship between science and religion, the creation–evolution controversy, and the demarcation problem within science. Ruse currently teaches at Florida State University.\n\nRuse was born in Birmingham, England, attending Bootham School, York. He took his undergraduate degree at the University of Bristol (1962), his master's degree at McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario (1964), and Ph.D. at the University of Bristol (1970).\n\nRuse taught at the University of Guelph in Ontario, Canada for 35 years. Since his retirement from Guelph, he has taught at Florida State University and is the Lucyle T. Werkmeister Professor of Philosophy (2000–present). In 1986, he was elected as a Fellow of both the Royal Society of Canada and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He has received honorary doctorates from the University of Bergen, Norway (1990), McMaster University, Ontario, Canada (2003) and the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada (2007). In September 2014 he was made an Honorary Doctor of Science by University College London.\n\nRuse was a key witness for the plaintiff in the 1981 test case (\"McLean v. Arkansas\") of the state law permitting the teaching of \"creation science\" in the Arkansas school system. The federal judge ruled that the state law was unconstitutional.\n\nHis 1996 book on the idea of progress in biology (orthogenesis), \"Monad to Man\", had a mixed reception from other philosophers of biology. \nPeter J. Bowler described it as an important and controversial book on the status of evolutionism. \nRon Amundson called Ruse an analytic and empiricist philosopher, but found Ruse's handling of structuralism \"less satisfactory\" than of the adaptationist, Darwinian traditions. He called Ruse's writing style \"bluff, unselfconscious, and opinionated\" and finds Ruse sarcastic, \"scarcely a neutral observer\". \nMichael Ghiselin criticised Ruse as a \"politically correct\" \"academic bigot\", disagreed with Ruse's narrative about phylogenetics, and accused him of \"completely ignor[ing] recent work such as by Carl Woese, \"neglect[ing] data\" that contradict his thesis. Ironically, in Ghiselin's view, Ruse's own epistemological ideal for science relied on the idea of Progress.\n\nRuse delivered some of the 2001 Gifford Lectures in Natural Theology at the University of Glasgow. His lectures on Evolutionary Naturalism, \"A Darwinian Understanding of Epistemology\" and \"A Darwinian Understanding of Ethics,\" are collected in \"The Nature and Limits of Human Understanding\" (ed. Anthony Sanford, T & T Clark, 2003). Ruse debates regularly with William A. Dembski, a proponent of intelligent design. Ruse takes the position that it is possible to reconcile the Christian faith with evolutionary theory. Ruse founded the journal \"Biology and Philosophy\", of which he is now Emeritus Editor, and has published numerous books and articles. He cites the influence of his late colleague Ernan McMullin.\n\nSince 2013, Ruse has been listed on the Advisory Council of the National Center for Science Education.\n\nIn 2014, Ruse was named the Bertrand Russell Society's award winner for his dedication to science and reason.\n\nRuse has sought to reconcile science and religion, a position which has brought him into conflict with Richard Dawkins and \"Pharyngula\" science blogger PZ Myers. Ruse has engaged in heated exchanges with new atheists. According to Ruse in 2009, \"Richard Dawkins, in his best selling \"The God Delusion\", likens me to Neville Chamberlain, the pusillanimous appeaser of Hitler at Munich. Jerry Coyne reviewed one of my books (Can a Darwinian be a Christian?) using the Orwellian quote that only an intellectual could believe the nonsense I believe in. And non-stop blogger P. Z. Myers has referred to me as a 'clueless gobshite.'\" Ruse said new atheists do the side of science a \"grave disservice\", a \"disservice to scholarship\", and that \"Dawkins in \"The God Delusion\" would fail any introductory philosophy or religion course\", and that \"The God Delusion\" makes him \"ashamed to be an atheist\". Ruse concluded, saying \"I am proud to be the focus of the invective of the new atheists. They are a bloody disaster\".\n\nRuse has two children from his first marriage, and has been married to his second wife since 1985, with whom he has three children. Ruse is an atheist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23385833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23385833", "title": "Neoplatonism", "text": "Neoplatonism\n\nNeoplatonism is a term used to designate a strand of Platonic philosophy that emerged in the third century AD against the background of Hellenistic philosophy and religion. The term does not encapsulate a set of ideas as much as it encapsulates a chain of thinkers which began with Ammonious Saccas and his student Plotinus (c. 204/5 – 270 AD) and which stretches to the sixth century AD. Even though Neoplatonism primarily circumscribes the thinkers who are now labeled Neoplatonists and not their ideas, there are some ideas that are common to Neoplatonic systems, for example, the monistic idea that all of reality can be derived from a single principle, \"the One\". \n\nAfter Plotinus there were three distinct periods in the history of Neoplatonism: the work of his student Porphyry; that of Iamblichus and his school in Syria; and the period in the fifth and sixth centuries, when the Academies in Alexandria and Athens flourished.\n\nNeoplatonism had an enduring influence on the subsequent history of philosophy. In the Middle Ages, Neoplatonic ideas were studied and discussed by Islamic, Christian, and Jewish thinkers. In the Islamic cultural sphere, Neoplatonic texts were available in Arabic translations, and notable thinkers such as al-Farabi, Solomon ibn Gabirol (\"Avicebron\"), Avicenna, and Moses Maimonides incorporated neoplatonic elements into their own thinking. Latin translations of late ancient neoplatonic texts were first available in the Christian West in the ninth century, and became influential from the twelfth century onward. Thomas Aquinas had direct access to works by Proclus, Simplicius and Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite, and he knew about other Neoplatonists, such as Plotinus and Porphyry, through secondhand sources. The mystic Meister Eckhart (c. 1260 – c. 1328) was also influenced by Neoplatonism, propagating a contemplative way of life which points to the Godhead beyond the nameable God. \n\nNeoplatonism also had a strong influence on the Perennial philosophy of the Italian Renaissance thinkers Marsilio Ficino and Pico della Mirandola, and continues through nineteenth-century Universalism and modern-day spirituality and nondualism.\n\n\"Neoplatonism\" is a modern term. The term \"neoplatonism\" has a double function as a historical category. On the one hand, it differentiates the philosophical doctrines of Plotinus and his successors from those of the historical Plato. On the other, the term makes an assumption about the novelty of Plotinus's interpretation of Plato. In the nearly six centuries from Plato's time to Plotinus', there had been an uninterrupted tradition of interpreting Plato which had begun with Aristotle and with the immediate successors of Plato's academy and continued on through a period of Platonism which is now referred to as Middle Platonism. The term \"neoplatonism\" implies that Plotinus' interpretation of Plato was so distinct from those of his predecessors that it should be thought to introduce a new period in the history of Platonism. Some contemporary scholars, however, have taken issue with this assumption and have doubted that \"neoplatonism\" constitutes a useful label. They claim that merely marginal differences separate Plotinus' teachings from those of his immediate predecessors.\n\nWhether neoplatonism is a meaningful or useful historical category is itself a central question concerning the history of the interpretation of Plato. For much of the history of Platonism, it was commonly accepted that the doctrines of the neoplatonists were essentially the same as those of Plato. The Renaissance Platonist Marsilio Ficino, for instance, thought that the neoplatonic interpretation of Plato was an authentic and accurate representation of Plato's philosophy. Although it is unclear precisely when scholars began to disassociate the philosophy of the historical Plato from the philosophy of his neoplatonic interpreters, they had clearly begun to do so at least as early as the first decade of the nineteenth century. Contemporary scholars often identify the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher as an early thinker who took Plato's philosophy to be separate from that of his neoplatonic interpreters. However, others have argued that the differentiation of Plato from neoplatonism was the result of a protracted historical development that preceded Schleiermacher's scholarly work on Plato.\n\nNeoplatonism started with Plotinus in the third century. Three distinct phases in classical neoplatonism after Plotinus can be distinguished: the work of his student Porphyry; that of Iamblichus and his school in Syria; and the period in the fifth and sixth centuries, when the Academies in Alexandria and Athens flourished.\n\nNeoplatonism synthesized ideas from various philosophical and religious cultural spheres. The most important forerunners from Greek philosophy were the Middle Platonists, such as Plutarch, and the neopythagoreans, especially Numenius of Apamea. Philo, a Hellenized Jew, translated Judaism into terms of Stoic, Platonic and neopythagorean elements, and held that God is \"supra rational\" and can be reached only through \"ecstasy\". Philo also held that the oracles of God supply the material of moral and religious knowledge. The earliest Christian philosophers, such as Justin and Athenagoras, who attempted to connect Christianity with Platonism, and the Christian Gnostics of Alexandria, especially Valentinus and the followers of Basilides, also mirrored elements of neoplatonism, albeit without its rigorous self-consistency.\n\nAmmonius Saccas (died ; Greek: Ἀμμώνιος Σακκᾶς) was a teacher of Plotinus. Through Ammonius Saccas, Plotinus may have been influenced by Indian thought. The similarities between neoplatonism and the Vedanta philosophies of Hinduism have led several authors to suggest an Indian influence in its founding, particularly on Ammonius Saccas.\n\nBoth Christians (see Eusebius, Jerome, and Origen) and pagans (see Porphyry and Plotinus) claimed him a teacher and founder of the neoplatonic system. Porphyry stated in \"On the One School of Plato and Aristotle\", that Ammonius' view was that the philosophies of Plato and Aristotle were in harmony. Eusebius and Jerome claimed him as a Christian until his death, whereas Porphyry claimed he had renounced Christianity and embraced pagan philosophy.\n\nPlotinus ( – ; Greek: Πλωτῖνος), born in upper Egypt, was a major Egyptian philosopher of the ancient world who is widely considered the father of neoplatonism. Much of our biographical information about him comes from Porphyry's preface to his edition of Plotinus' \"Enneads\". While he was himself influenced by the teachings of classical Greek, Persian and Indian philosophy and Egyptian theology, his metaphysical writings later inspired numerous Christian, Jewish, Islamic and Gnostic metaphysicians and mystics over the centuries.\n\nPlotinus taught that there is a supreme, totally transcendent \"One\", containing no division, multiplicity, nor distinction; likewise, it is beyond all categories of being and non-being. The concept of \"being\" is derived by us from the objects of human experience and is an attribute of such objects, but the infinite, transcendent One is beyond all such objects and, therefore, is beyond the concepts which we can derive from them. The One \"cannot be any existing thing\" and cannot be merely the sum of all such things (compare the Stoic doctrine of disbelief in non-material existence) but \"is prior to all existents\".\n\nPorphyry (Greek: Πορφύριος, c. 233–c. 309) was a Syrian neoplatonist philosopher. He wrote widely on astrology, religion, philosophy, and musical theory. He produced a biography of his teacher, Plotinus. He is important in the history of mathematics because of his Life of Pythagoras and his commentary on Euclid's Elements, which Pappus used when he wrote his own commentary. Porphyry is also known as an opponent of Christianity and as a defender of Paganism; of his Adversus Christianos (Against the Christians) in 15 books, only fragments remain. He famously said, \"The gods have proclaimed Christ to have been most pious, but the Christians are a confused and vicious sect.\"\n\nIamblichus, also known as Iamblichus Chalcidensis ( – ; Greek: Ἰάμβλιχος), was a Syrian neoplatonist philosopher who determined the direction taken by later neoplatonic philosophy and, perhaps, by western philosophical religions themselves. He is perhaps best known for his compendium on Pythagorean philosophy.\nIn Iamblichus' system, the realm of divinities stretched from the original One down to material nature itself, where soul, in fact, descended into matter and became \"embodied\" as human beings. The world is thus peopled by a crowd of superhuman beings influencing natural events and possessing and communicating knowledge of the future, and who are all accessible to prayers and offerings.\nIamblichus had salvation as his final goal (see henosis). The embodied soul was to return to divinity by performing certain rites, or theurgy, literally, 'divine-working'.\n\nAfter Plotinus' (around 205–270) and his student Porphyry (around 232–309) Aristotle's (non-biological) works entered the curriculum of Platonic thought. Porphyry's introduction (Isagoge) to Aristotle's \"Categoria\" was important as an introduction to logic, and the study of Aristotle became an introduction to the study of Plato in the late Platonism of Athens and Alexandria. The commentaries of this group seek to harmonise Plato, Aristotle, and, often, the Stoa. Some works of neoplatonism were attributed to Plato or Aristotle. \"De Mundo\", for instance, is thought not to be the work of a 'pseudo-Aristotle' though this remains debatable.\n\nHypatia ( – 415) was a Greek philosopher and mathematician who served as head of the Platonist school in Alexandria, Egypt, where she taught philosophy, mathematics and astronomy prior to her murder by a fanatical mob of Coptic Parabalani monks because she had been advising the Christian prefect of Egypt Orestes during his feud with Cyril, Alexandria's dynastic archbishop. The extent of Cyril's personal involvement in her murder remains a matter of scholarly debate.\n\nProclus Lycaeus (February 8, 412 – April 17, 485), surnamed \"The Successor\" or \"diadochos\" (Greek Πρόκλος ὁ Διάδοχος Próklos ho Diádokhos), was a Greek neoplatonist philosopher, one of the last major Greek philosophers (see Damascius). He set forth one of the most elaborate, complex, and fully developed neoplatonic systems, providing also an allegorical way of reading the dialogues of Plato. The particular characteristic of Proclus' system is his insertion of a level of individual ones, called henads between the One itself and the divine Intellect, which is the second principle. The henads are beyond being, like the One itself, but they stand at the head of chains of causation (seirai or taxeis) and in some manner give to these chains their particular character. They are also identified with the traditional Greek gods, so one henad might be Apollo and be the cause of all things apollonian, while another might be Helios and be the cause of all sunny things. The henads serve both to protect the One itself from any hint of multiplicity and to draw up the rest of the universe towards the One, by being a connecting, intermediate stage between absolute unity and determinate multiplicity.\n\nThe \"Enneads\" of Plotinus are the primary and classical document of neoplatonism. As a form of mysticism, it contains theoretical and practical parts. The theoretical parts deal with the high origin of the human soul, showing how it has departed from its first estate. The practical parts show the way by which the soul may again return to the Eternal and Supreme. The system can be divided between the invisible world and the phenomenal world, the former containing the transcendent One from which emanates an eternal, perfect, essence (\"nous\"), which, in turn, produces the world-soul.\n\nFor Plotinus, the first principle of reality is \"the One\", an utterly simple, ineffable, unknowable subsistence which is both the creative source and the teleological end of all existing things. Although, properly speaking, there is no name appropriate for the first principle, the most adequate names are \"the One\" or \"the Good\". The One is so simple that it cannot even be said to exist or to be a being. Rather, the creative principle of all things is \"beyond\" being, a notion which is derived from Book VI of the \"Republic\", when, in the course of his famous analogy of the sun, Plato says that the Good is beyond being (ἐπέκεινα τῆς οὐσίας) in power and dignity. In Plotinus' model of reality, the One is the cause of the rest of reality, which takes the form of two subsequent \"hypostases\", Nous and Soul. Although neoplatonists after Plotinus adhered to his cosmological scheme in its most general outline, later developments in the tradition also departed substantively from Plotinus' teachings in regards to significant philosophical issues, such as the nature of evil.\n\nFrom the One emanated the rest of the universe as a sequence of lesser beings. \n\nThe original Being initially emanates, or throws out, the \"nous\", which is a perfect image of the One and the archetype of all existing things. It is simultaneously both being and thought, idea and ideal world. As image, the \"nous\" corresponds perfectly to the One, but as derivative, it is entirely different. What Plotinus understands by the \"nous\" is the highest sphere accessible to the human \"mind\", while also being pure \"intellect\" itself. \"Nous\" is the most critical component of idealism, Neoplatonism being a pure form of idealism. The demiurge (the \"nous\") is the energy, or \"ergon\" (does the work), which manifests or organises the material world into perceivability.\n\nThe image and product of the motionless nous is the \"world-soul\", which, according to Plotinus, is immaterial like the \"nous\". Its relation to the \"nous\" is the same as that of the \"nous\" to the One. It stands between the \"nous\" and the phenomenal world, and it is permeated and illuminated by the former, but it is also in contact with the latter. The \"nous/spirit\" is indivisible; the world-soul may preserve its unity and remain in the \"nous\", but, at the same time, it has the power of uniting with the corporeal world and thus being disintegrated. It therefore occupies an intermediate position. As a single world-soul, it belongs in essence and destination to the intelligible world; but it also embraces innumerable individual souls; and these can either allow themselves to be informed by the \"nous\", or turn aside from the nous and choose the phenomenal world and lose themselves in the realm of the senses and the finite.\n\nThe soul, as a moving essence, generates the corporeal or phenomenal world. This world ought to be so pervaded by the soul that its various parts should remain in perfect harmony. Plotinus is no dualist in the same sense as sects like the Gnostics; in contrast, he admires the beauty and splendour of the world. So long as idea governs matter, or the soul governs the body, the world is fair and good. It is an image – though a shadowy image – of the upper world, and the degrees of better and worse in it are essential to the harmony of the whole. But, in the actual phenomenal world, unity and harmony are replaced by strife or discord; the result is a conflict, a becoming and vanishing, an illusive existence. And the reason for this state of things is that bodies rest on a substratum of matter. Matter is the indeterminate: that with no qualities. If destitute of form and idea, it is evil; as capable of form, it is neutral. Evil here is understood as a parasite, having no-existence of its own (parahypostasis), an unavoidable outcome of the Universe, having an \"other\" necessity, as a harmonizing factor.\n\nLater neoplatonic philosophers, especially Iamblichus, added hundreds of intermediate beings such as gods, angels, demons, and other beings as mediators between the One and humanity. The neoplatonist gods are omni-perfect beings and do not display the usual amoral behaviour associated with their representations in the myths.\n\nNeoplatonists did not believe in an independent existence of evil. They compared it to darkness, which does not exist in itself but only as the absence of light. So, too, evil is simply the absence of good. Things are good insofar as they exist; they are evil only insofar as they are imperfect, lacking some good which they should have. \n\nNeoplatonists believed human perfection and happiness were attainable in this world, without awaiting an afterlife. Perfection and happiness— seen as synonymous— could be achieved through philosophical contemplation.\n\nAll people return to the One, from which they emanated.\n\nThe neoplatonists believed in the pre-existence, and immortality of the soul. The human soul consists of a lower irrational soul and a higher rational soul (mind), both of which can be regarded as different powers of the one soul. It was widely held that the soul possesses a \"vehicle\", accounting for the human soul's immortality and allowing for its return to the One after death. After bodily death, the soul takes up a level in the afterlife corresponding with the level at which it lived during its earthly life. The neoplatonists believed in the principle of reincarnation. Although the most pure and holy souls would dwell in the highest regions, the impure soul would undergo a purification, before descending again, to be reincarnated into a new body, perhaps into animal form. Plotinus believed that a soul may be reincarnated into another human or even a different sort of animal. However, Porphyry maintained, instead, that human souls were only reincarnated into other humans. A soul which has returned to the One achieves union with the cosmic universal soul and does not descend again, at least, not in this world period.\n\nCertain central tenets of neoplatonism served as a philosophical interim for the Christian theologian Augustine of Hippo on his journey from dualistic Manichaeism to Christianity. As a Manichee hearer, Augustine had held that evil has substantial being and that God is made of matter; when he became a neoplatonist, he changed his views on these things. As a neoplatonist, and later a Christian, Augustine believed that evil is a privation of good and that God is not material. When writing his treatise 'On True Religion' several years after his 387 baptism, Augustine's Christianity was still tempered by neoplatonism.\n\nThe term \"Logos\" was interpreted variously in neoplatonism. Plotinus refers to Thales in interpreting Logos as the principle of meditation, the interrelationship between the Hypostases (Soul, Spirit (nous) and the 'One'). St. John introduces a relation between 'Logos' and the Son, Christ, whereas, St. Paul calls it 'Son', 'Image', and 'Form'. Victorinus subsequently differentiated the Logos interior to God from the Logos related to the world by creation and salvation.\n\nFor Augustine, the Logos \"took on flesh\" in Christ, in whom the logos was present as in no other man. He strongly influenced Early Medieval Christian Philosophy. Perhaps the key subject in this was Logos.\n\nSome early Christians, influenced by neoplatonism, identified the Neoplatonic One, or God, with Yahweh. The most influential of these would be Origen, the pupil of Ammonius Saccas; and the fifth-century author known as Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite, whose works were translated by John Scotus in the ninth century for the West. Both authors had a lasting influence on Eastern Orthodox and Western Christianity, and the development of contemplative and mystical practices and theology. \n\nNeoplatonism also had links with Gnosticism, which Plotinus rebuked in his ninth tractate of the second \"Enneads\": \"Against Those That Affirm The Creator of The Cosmos and The Cosmos Itself to Be Evil\" (generally known as \"Against The Gnostics\").\n\nDue to their belief being grounded in Platonic thought, the neoplatonists rejected Gnosticism's vilification of Plato's demiurge, the creator of the material world or cosmos discussed in the Timaeus. Neoplatonism has been referred to as orthodox Platonic philosophy by scholars like John D. Turner; this reference may be due, in part, to Plotinus' attempt to refute certain interpretations of Platonic philosophy, through his Enneads. Plotinus believed the followers of Gnosticism had corrupted the original teachings of Plato and often argued against likes of Valentinus who, according to Plotinus, had given rise to doctrines of dogmatic theology with ideas such as that the Spirit of Christ was brought forth by a conscious god after the fall from Pleroma. According to Plotinus, The One is not a conscious god with intent nor a godhead nor a conditioned existing entity of any kind, rather a requisite principle of totality which is also the source of ultimate wisdom.\n\nAfter the Platonic Academy was destroyed in the first century BC, philosophers continued to teach Platonism, but it was not until the early 5th century (c. 410) that a revived academy (which had no connection with the original Academy) was established in Athens by some leading Neoplatonists. It persisted until 529 AD when it was finally closed by Justinian I because of active paganism of its professors. Other schools continued in Constantinople, Antioch and Alexandria which were the centers of Justinian's empire.\n\nAfter the closure of the Neoplatonic academy, neoplatonic and/or secular philosophical studies continued in publicly funded schools in Alexandria. In the early seventh century, the neoplatonist Stephanus brought this Alexandrian tradition to Constantinople, where it would remain influential, albeit as a form of secular education. The university maintained an active philosophical tradition of Platonism and Aristotelianism, with the former being the longest unbroken Platonic school, running for close to two millennia until the fifteenth century\n\nMichael Psellos (1018–1078) a Byzantine monk, writer, philosopher, politician, and historian. He wrote many philosophical treatises such as \"De omnifaria doctrina\". He wrote most of his philosophy during his time as a court politician at Constantinople in the 1030s and 1040s.\n\nGemistus Pletho ( – 1452; Greek: Πλήθων Γεμιστός) remained the preeminent scholar of neoplatonic philosophy in the late Byzantine Empire. He introduced his understanding and insight into the works of neoplatonism during the failed attempt to reconcile the East–West Schism at the council of Florence. At Florence, Pletho met Cosimo de' Medici and influenced the latter's decision to found a new Platonic Academy there. Cosimo subsequently appointed as head Marsilio Ficino, who proceeded to translate all Plato's works, the Enneads of Plotinus, and various other neoplatonist works into Latin.\n\nThere were three major reasons for the prominence of neoplatonic influences in the Islamic world: \n\nVarious Arabic scholars and philosophers, including Avicenna (Ibn Sina), Ibn Arabi, al-Kindi, al-Farabi, and al-Himsi, adapted neoplatonism to conform to the monotheistic constraints of Islam. \nThe translations of the works which extrapolate the tenets of God in neoplatonism present no major modification from their original Greek sources, showing the doctrinal shift towards monotheism. Islamic adapted the concepts of the One and the First Principle to Islamic theology, attributing the First Principle to God. God is a transcendent being, omnipresent and inalterable to the effects of creation. Islamic philosophers used the framework of Islamic mysticism in their interpretation of Neoplatonic writings and concepts.\n\nThe translation and interpretation of Islamic neoplatonists had lasting effects on Western philosophers, affecting Descartes' view on the conception of being.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, neoplatonist ideas influenced Jewish thinkers, such as the Kabbalist Isaac the Blind, and the Jewish neoplatonic philosopher Solomon ibn Gabirol (\"Avicebron\"), who modified it in the light of their own monotheism. Neoplatonist ideas also influenced Islamic and Sufi thinkers such as al Farabi and Avicenna.\n\nThe works of Pseudo-Dionysius were instrumental in the flowering of western medieval mysticism, most notably Meister Eckhart.\n\nNeoplatonism ostensibly survived in the Eastern Christian Church as an independent tradition and was reintroduced to the West by Pletho ( – 1452/1454), an avowed pagan and opponent of the Byzantine Church, inasmuch as the latter, under Western scholastic influence, relied heavily upon Aristotelian methodology. Plethon's Platonic revival, following the Council of Florence (1438–1439), largely accounts for the renewed interest in Platonic philosophy which accompanied the Renaissance.\n\n\"Of all the students of Greek in Renaissance Italy, the best-known are the Neoplatonists who studied in and around Florence\" (Hole). Neoplatonism was not just a revival of Plato's ideas, it is all based on Plotinus' created synthesis, which incorporated the works and teachings of Plato, Aristotle, Pythagoras, and other Greek philosophers.\nThe Renaissance in Italy was the revival of classic antiquity, and this started at the fall of the Byzantine empire, who were considered the \"librarians of the world\", because of their great collection of classical manuscripts and the number of humanist scholars that resided in Constantinople (Hole).\n\nNeoplatonism in the Renaissance combined the ideas of Christianity and a new awareness of the writings of Plato.\n\nMarsilio Ficino (1433–99) was \"chiefly responsible for packaging and presenting Plato to the Renaissance\" (Hole). In 1462, Cosimo I de' Medici, patron of arts, who had an interest in humanism and Platonism, provided Ficino with all 36 of Plato's dialogues in Greek for him to translate. Between 1462 and 1469, Ficino translated these works into Latin, making them widely accessible, as only a minority of people could read Greek. And, between 1484 and 1492, he translated the works of Plotinus, making them available for the first time to the West.\n\nGiovanni Pico della Mirandola (1463–94) was another excelling neoplatonist during the Italian Renaissance. He could not only speak and write in Latin and Greek, but he also had immense knowledge on the Hebrew and Arabic languages. The pope banned his works because they were viewed as heretical – unlike Ficino, who managed to stay on the right side of the church.\n\nThe efforts of Ficino and Pico to introduce neoplatonic and Hermetic doctrines into the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church has recently been evaluated in terms of an attempted \"Hermetic Reformation\".\n\nIn the seventeenth century in England, neoplatonism was fundamental to the school of the Cambridge Platonists, whose luminaries included Henry More, Ralph Cudworth, Benjamin Whichcote and John Smith, all graduates of the University of Cambridge. Coleridge claimed that they were not really Platonists, but \"more truly Plotinists\": \"divine Plotinus\", as More called him.\n\nLater, Thomas Taylor (not a Cambridge Platonist) was the first to translate Plotinus' works into English.\n\nNotable modern neoplatonists include Thomas Taylor, \"the English Platonist\", who wrote extensively on Platonism and translated almost the entire Platonic and Plotinian corpora into English, and the Belgian writer Suzanne Lilar.\n\nThe science fiction writer Philip K. Dick identified as a neoplatonist and explores related mystical experiences and religious concepts in his theoretical work, compiled in The Exegesis of Philip K. Dick.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7134100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7134100", "title": "Non-essentialism", "text": "Non-essentialism\n\nOften synonymous to anti-foundationalism, non-essentialism in philosophy is the non-belief in an essence (from Latin \"esse\") of any given thing, idea, or metaphysical entity (e.g. God). Non-essentialism might also be defined cataphatically as the belief that for any entity, there are no specific traits or ground of being which entities of that kind must possess in order to be considered \"that entity.\"\n\nNon-essentialism is not restricted to simple philosophical speculation. It is also found in academic disciplines such as sociology, anthropology, theology, history/historiography and science. How non-essentialism is used in these discourses varies a bit given their different content and subject matter.\n\n"}
{"id": "54389225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54389225", "title": "Odoardo Gualandi", "text": "Odoardo Gualandi\n\nOdoardo Gualandi descended from an old and famous patrician family from Pisa. At the university of Bologna he graduated summa cum laude in civil and canon law. From 1557 till 1588 he was Bishop of Cesena in northern Italy. In that capacity Gualandi organized several synods. The synod in 1582 resulted in his first publication, \"Constitutiones, et decreta condita ab illustri...Adoardo Gualando...Caesenae\". 1584. In 1588 Gualandi retired and was succeeded as Bishop of Cesena by his nephew Camillo Gualandi. During his retirement he wrote his only known philosophical treatise, \"De civili facultate Libri XVI\". It was published by his nephew in 1598, i.e. a year after his death in Rome, 17 March 1597. The treatise shows Gualandi as an eclectic Aristotelian who attracted attention not so much as an original thinker as well as for the way he organized the material in his explanation of ethics and politics. Gualandi was reputed for his clear explanation of moral philosophy in general and that of Aristotle in particular. His fame as a teacher lasted till the beginning of the eighteenth century. Since then his name and work passed into forgetfulness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1030901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030901", "title": "Osborne effect", "text": "Osborne effect\n\nThe Osborne effect is a social phenomenon of customers canceling or deferring orders for the current soon-to-be-obsolete product as an unexpected drawback of a company's announcing a future product prematurely.\n\nThe term was coined after the Osborne Computer Corporation, in which the company took more than a year to make its next product available and eventually ran out of cash and went bankrupt in 1985.\n\nPre-announcement is done for several reasons: to reassure current customers that there is improvement or lower cost coming, to increase the interest of the media and investors in the company's future prospects, and to intimidate or confuse competitors. When done correctly, the sales or cash flow impact to the company is minimal, as the revenue drop for the current product is offset by orders or completed sales of the new product as it becomes available. However, when the Osborne effect occurs, the quantity of unsold goods increases and the company must react by either discounting or lowering production of the current product, both of which depress cash flow.\n\nThe Osborne Effect states that prematurely discussing future, unavailable products damages sales of existing products. The name comes from the planned replacement of the Osborne 1, an early personal computer first sold by the Osborne Computer Corporation in 1981. In 1983, founder Adam Osborne pre-announced several next-generation computer models (the \"Osborne Executive\" and \"Osborne Vixen\"), which had not yet been built, highlighting the fact that they would outperform the existing model. A widely held belief was that sales of the Osborne 1 fell sharply as customers anticipated those more advanced systems, leading to a sales decline from which Osborne Computer was unable to recover. This belief appeared in the media almost immediately after the company's September 1983 bankruptcy:\n\nOsborne reacted by drastically cutting prices on the Osborne 1 in an effort to stimulate cash flow. But nothing seemed to work, and for several months sales were practically non-existent.\n\nInterviews with former employees cast doubt on the idea that Osborne's downfall was caused solely by announcement ahead of availability. After renewed discussion of the Osborne Effect in 2005, columnist Robert X. Cringely interviewed ex-Osborne employee Mike McCarthy and clarified the story behind the \"Osborne effect\". Purportedly, the new Executive model from Osborne Computer was priced at US$2,195 and came with a screen, while competitor Kaypro was selling a computer with a screen for US$400 less. The Kaypro machine had already begun to cut into sales of the Osborne 1, a computer with a screen for US$1,995. After inventories of the Osborne 1 cleared out, monthly sales of the Executive were less than a tenth of the previous model, as customers switched to Kaypro.\n\nOn 20 June 2005, \"The Register\" quoted Osborne's memoirs and interviewed Osborne repairman Charles Eicher to tell a tale of corporate decisions that led to the company's demise. Apparently, while sales of the new model were relatively slow, they were starting to show a profit. Then, a vice president discovered that there was an inventory of fully equipped motherboards for the older models, worth US$150,000. Rather than discard the motherboards, the vice president sold Osborne leadership on the idea of building them into complete units and selling them. Soon US$2 million, far more money than anybody anticipated, and more than the company could afford at that time, was spent to turn the motherboards into completed units: for CRTs, RAM, floppy disk drives, and to restore production and fabricate the molded cases. In his autobiography, Osborne described this as a case of \"throwing good money after bad\". It was then that the company folded due to debt.\n\nIn 1978, North Star Computers announced a new version of their floppy disk controller, which had double the capacity, to be sold at the same price as their existing range. Sales of the existing products plummeted and the company almost went bankrupt. Other consumer electronics products have been continually been plagued by Osborne Effect as well. In the early 1990's TV set sales were depressed by talk of the imminent release of HDTV, which did not actually become widespread for another 10 years. \n\nWhen Sega began publicly discussing their next-generation system (eventually released as the Dreamcast), barely two years after launching the Saturn, it became a self-defeating prophecy. This move, combined with Sega's recent history of short-lived consoles, particularly the Sega Mega-CD and 32X which were considered ill-conceived \"stopgaps\" that turned off gamers and developers alike, led to a chain reaction that quickly caused the Saturn's future to collapse. Immediately following the announcement, sales of the console and software substantially tapered off in the second half of 1997, while many planned games were canceled, causing the console's life expectancy to shorten substantially. While this let Sega focus on bringing out its successor, premature demise of the Saturn caused customers and developers to be skeptical and hold out, which led to the Dreamcast's demise as well.\n\nAnother example of the Osborne Effect took place as a result of Nokia CEO Stephen Elop's implementation of the plan to shift away from Symbian to Windows Phone for its mobile software platform. On top of this, criticism of existing products was compared to the Ratner Effect. These two together led to the coining of the term \"Elop Effect\", to describe the combination of both premature announcement and negative comments on existing products. Although it was known for some time that Nokia's Symbian phones were no longer competitive against iOS and Android, they still generated significant profit thanks to Nokia's brand recognition until Elop's announcement \"effectively transformed the Symbian cash-cow into a dead duck\". At the same time, Nokia's first Windows Phone devices would not be ready for a year, and once they were released their sales were not enough to replace the volume and profit of Symbian devices. Furthermore, the announcement that Windows Phone 7 devices would not be able to upgrade to Windows Phone 8 hurt sales of Nokia's WP7 phones, plus it was a risky move for Microsoft which \"can ill afford to alienate people when there are scores of highly capable and affordable Android phones up for grabs. Or years-old Apple iPhones which aren't being prematurely shut out of the iOS playground.\"\n\nMakerBot appears to have fallen victim to the Osborne effect: talking openly about a future product significantly reduced the sales of their current product.\n\n"}
{"id": "334725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334725", "title": "Problem of Hell", "text": "Problem of Hell\n\nThe problem of Hell is an ethical problem in religion in which the existence of Hell for the punishment of souls is regarded as inconsistent with the notion of a just, moral, and omnibenevolent God. It derives from four key propositions: that Hell exists; that it is for the punishment of people whose lives on Earth are judged to have sinned against God; that some people go there; and there is no escape.\n\nThere are several major issues to the problem of Hell. The first is its definition, as there are several words in the original languages of the Bible that are translated into the word \"hell\" in English. A second issue is whether the existence of Hell is compatible with justice. A third is whether Hell is compatible with God's mercy, especially as articulated in Christianity. An issue particular to Christianity is whether Hell is actually populated forever or they perish, or if God will ultimately restore all immortal souls (universal reconciliation) in the World to Come.\n\nIn some aspects, the problem of Hell is similar to the problem of evil, assuming the suffering of Hell is caused by free will and something God could have prevented. The discussion regarding the problem of evil may thus also be of interest for the problem of Hell. The problem of Hell can be viewed as the worst and most intractable instance of the problem of evil.\n\nCriticisms of the doctrines of Hell can focus on the intensity or eternity of its torments, and arguments surrounding all these issues can invoke appeals to the omnipotence, omniscience, and omnibenevolence of God.\n\nIf one believes in the idea of eternal Hell, unending suffering, or the idea that some souls will perish (whether destroyed by God or otherwise), author Thomas Talbott says that one has to either let go of the idea that God wishes to save all beings, or accept the idea that God wants to save all, but will not \"successfully accomplish his will and satisfy his own desire in this matter.\" \n\nAlmost no forms of Judaism share the traditional majority Christian belief in the immortality of the soul, therefore Sheol (Hades in the Septuagint, \"the grave\" in many instances in the King James Bible) is simply the destination for all the dead, and no \"problem of Sheol\" exists. Gehenna, found in the Mishnah, is the Lake of fire or destination of the living sinners and raised wicked at Judgement Day, and the place of either of destruction, in the Mishnah or, in some rabbinical texts, eternal torment, which would potentially create a \"problem of Gehenna.\"\n\nJewish religious thinking has traditionally held, even among different schools ranging from Jewish Orthodox teachings to Reform Jewish thinking to Conservative Jewish thinking and more, that \"The righteous of all peoples have a place in the World-To-Come\", in the words of the Talmud, with humanity as a whole being 'saved'. Thus, rabbinical scholars have broadly held the inclusive view that the vast majority of people in existence, both Jewish and gentile, will be reconciled with God in the afterlife given the power of his grace and the fundamental goodness of mankind.\n\nIn Christianity, Hell has traditionally been regarded as a place of punishment for wrongdoing or sin in the mortal life, as a manifestation of divine justice. Nonetheless, the extreme severity and/or infinite duration of the punishment might be seen as incompatible with justice. However, Hell is not seen as strictly a matter of retributive justice even by the more traditionalist churches. For example, the Eastern Orthodox see it as a condition brought about by, and the natural consequence of, free rejection of God's love.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church teaches that Hell is a place of punishment brought about by a person's self-exclusion from communion with God.\n\nIn some ancient Eastern Christian traditions, Hell and Heaven are distinguished not spatially, but by the relation of a person to God's love.\nIn terms of the Bible itself, issues of salvation and access to heaven or to hell are mentioned frequently. Examples include John 3:16 \n\"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.\" which tends to show the wicked perish and the saints have everlasting life or John 3:36 (NIV), \"Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life, but whoever rejects the Son will not see life, for God's wrath remains on them\", and 2 Thessalonians 1:8–9 (NIV), \"Those who do not know God and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus, they will be punished with everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might.\"\n\nThe minority Christian doctrine that sinners perish and are destroyed rather than punished eternally such as is found in John 3:15 \"That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life.\", is referred to as Christian mortalism; annihilation for those not awarded immortal life, conditional immortality for those who are. This Christian view is found in very early Christianity, resurfaced in the Reformation, and since 1800 has found increasing support among Protestant theologians.\n\nSome opponents of the traditional doctrine of Hell claim that the punishment is disproportionate to any crimes that could be committed. Because human beings have a finite lifespan, they can commit only a finite number of sins, yet Hell is an infinite punishment. In this vein, Jorge Luis Borges suggests in his essay \"La duración del Infierno\" that no transgression can warrant an infinite punishment on the grounds that there is no such thing as an \"infinite transgression\". Philosopher Immanuel Kant argued in 1793 in \"Religion within the Bounds of Bare Reason\" that since morality lies ultimately in a person's disposition, and as disposition is concerned with the adoption of universal principles, or as he called them: \"maxims\", every human being is guilty of, in one sense, an infinite amount of violations of the law, and so consequently an infinite punishment is not unjustified.\n\nSome theists, particularly in the Thomistic tradition, have argued that God's infinite dignity requires that any transgression against him warrants an infinite punishment, and the correct punishment for a crime is proportional to the status of the wronged individual. Opponents of this view object, citing that the severity of a crime is determined by the amount of harm done to the victim, not by their lifespan or scope of being. An omnipotent being, by definition, cannot be harmed. Therefore, by condemning souls to an \"eternal\" damnation, God would be punishing souls for actions that had no effect on him.\n\nAnother apparent injustice is in being punished for something one does not know exists, as some denominations of Christianity believe that only by accepting Jesus can one be saved from Hell. However a few branches of Christianity teach that one cannot sin unless one performs an action knowing it is wrong, or performs an action knowing it could result in harm. Catholics say that as far as strict necessity is concerned, faith in Christ may suffice in implicit form, though explicit faith is better, and implicit faith in Christ may even be compatible with misled rejection of appearing Christendom.\n\nThe eternity of Hell has also been justified in the Scholastic tradition by appeal to the irrevocability of the reprobate's decision to oppose God after death. Eternity is perceived not as an infinite stretch of time, but as an unchanging present (though these may not be qualitatively different). This argument however, could be challenged by the view that if wrongdoers are to be punished in Hell they must suffer, and for this they must retain their sentience in order to experience suffering. If this sentience is retained it follows that the wrongdoers would be aware of their transgressions and capable of repenting them. Consistent with the Thomistic mode of disputation, one might also question whether a being finite in intelligence can justly be condemned to a punishment infinite/eternal in extent.\n\nAnother argument against the justice of Hell is that humans are not culpable for their sins, since sinning is unavoidable to them. \"For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God\" (Epistle to the Romans, 3:23). However, the statement \"all have sinned\" does not necessarily indicate that sin is unavoidable (Hebrews 4:15). Also, if God is omniscient/prescient, he is aware of the outcome before anyone enters into Heaven or Hell. From the reasoning that God created them in the first place, some go so far as to ascribe to Him the culpability for a person's eternal fate. The question is all the more burning if one states exactly this (positive reprobation, Calvinism). However, the (theoretically distinct) doctrine of negative reprobation without consideration of future demerits (Domingo Báñez)—God elects some, the others fall into sin on their own, but of necessity, and are then judged for their sins—will be felt not so much distinct \"in practice\". If the angels and the blessed without inconvenience to their free will partake of an irresistible grace (which is thus shown possible), even who holds an at least conditional election of every human being (Molinism and, despite notable academic success of Thomist grace theology within the Catholic pale, in practice the stand of Catholics) needs to say that God could have rescued some and did not. Here, again, the discussion shades into that on the problem of evil.\n\nAnother issue is the problem of harmonizing the existence of Hell with God's infinite mercy or omnibenevolence which is found in scripture.\n\nAs in the problem of evil, some apologists argue that the traditional view of the torments of Hell are attributable not to a defect in God's benevolence, but in human free will. Although a benevolent God would prefer to see everyone saved, he would also allow humans to control their own destinies. This view opens the possibility of seeing Hell not as retributive punishment, but rather as an option that God allows, so that people who do not wish to be with God are not forced to be. C. S. Lewis most famously proposed this view in his book \"The Great Divorce\", saying: \"There are only two kinds of people in the end: those who say to God, 'Thy will be done,' and those to whom God says, in the end, 'Thy will be done.'\"\n\nTwo problems remain regarding Christian theological teachings about grace, the first which grants that God could indeed convert the heart of every sinner and yet leave the freedom of will in its integrity. In the Thomistic tradition, God grants sufficient grace for salvation to all people, yet it only effects salvation for some. The early modern controversies on grace among the Jansenists, Jesuits and Dominicans focused in part on the question of sufficient and efficient grace, and whether these differed in kind. Secondly, an omniscient God would be aware of the future choice of the individual human's free will, to accept or reject God, prior to the creation of the individual human. This omniscient God would then exercise his/her own free will in choosing to create a human that he/she knows, a priori, would be condemned to eternal torture. God could, in this circumstance, simply choose not to create the human. Such a choice would be incompatible with God's infinite mercy or omnibenevolence.\n\nSome modern critics of the doctrine of Hell (such as Marilyn McCord Adams) claim that, even if Hell is seen as a choice rather than as punishment, it would be unreasonable for God to give such flawed and ignorant creatures as ourselves the responsibility of our eternal destinies. Jonathan Kvanvig, in \"The Problem of Hell\" (1993), agrees that God would not allow one to be eternally damned by a decision made under the wrong circumstances. One should not always honor the choices of human beings, even when they are full adults, if, for instance, the choice is made while depressed or careless. On Kvanvig's view, God will abandon no person until they have made a settled, final decision, under favorable circumstances, to reject God, but God will respect a choice made under the right circumstances. Once a person finally and competently chooses to reject God, out of respect for the person's autonomy, God allows them to be annihilated.\n\nIn Islam, Jahannam is the final destiny of evildoers and is regarded as necessary for God's divine justice. God's punishments are by definition considered to be justified, since God holds absolute sovereignty. Furthermore, with regard to predestination, one of six articles of faith in Islam, the question of how creatures be punished for their deeds arises.\n\nThe inhabitants of afterlife places are not dogmatically determined in Islam, thus it is up to individual and critical interpretation of the Qur'an as to who enters Hell. A common concern is the fate of non-Muslims and if they will be punished for not belonging to the \"right\" religion. An often-recited quranic verse implies that righteous non-Muslims will be saved on Judgement Day:\nIndeed, those who believed and those who were Jews or Christians or Sabeans—those who believed in Allah and the Last Day and did righteousness—will have their reward with their Lord, and no fear will there be concerning them, nor will they grieve. \nHowever some scholars hold this verse may be set aside as only applying before the arrival of Muhammad.\nSome non-pluraist scholars like Ibn Arabi state that every human will receive a proper message and will not be doomed for ignorance, while others claim non-Muslims are judged by their own moral standards, because of God's all-embracing mercy.\n\nAnother criteria to determine the justice of Hell's punishment derives from its duration, on which Islamic scholars disagree. Some scholars state that Hell is eternal, others hold that Hell exists to purify rather than inflict pain, and others state that Hell itself will cease to exist.\n\nWith the increasing urgency of pluralism, modern writers such as Edip Yüksel and Mouhanad Khorchide hold Hell to be finite rather than eternal: Yüksel argues that evildoers will be punished in Hell for an appropriate period then cease to exist, so that their suffering (which is described in the Quran and is balanced with descriptions of heaven) will be only a just amount. Other universalist-leaning scholars include Tariq Ramadan, Sayyid Qutb and possibly Ibn Qayyim who some argue, like his teacher Ibn Taymiyya, was not a universalist.\n\nThe degree of free will differs in Islamic thought. Based on Sunni traditions, God wrote everything that will happen on a \"tablet\" before creating the world, therefore human free will is not beyond God's influence. This results in the problem: how punishment is justified since God made humans the way they will sin. In this tradition, in Ashari thought, God created good and evil deeds, which humans decide upon—humans have their own possibility to choose, but God retains sovereignty of all possibilities. This still leaves the question of why God set out those people's lives (or the negative choice of deeds) which result in Hell, and why God created the possibility to become evil. In Islamic thought, evil is considered to be movement away from good, and God created this possibility so that humans are able to recognize good. (In contrast, angels are unable to move away from good, therefore angels generally rank lower than humans as they have reached heaven because they lack the ability to perceive the world as humans do.)\n\nAs with other Jewish writings of the Second Temple period, the New Testament text distinguishes two words, both translated \"Hell\" in older English Bibles: \"Hades\", \"the grave\", and \"Gehenna\" where God \"can destroy both body and soul\". A minority of Christians read this to mean that neither Hades nor Gehenna are eternal but refer to the ultimate destruction of the wicked in the Lake of Fire in a consuming fire, but which because of the Greek words used in translating from the Hebrew text has become confused with Greek myths and ideas. From the sixth century BC onward, the Greeks developed pagan ideas for the dead, and of reincarnation and even transmigration of souls. Christians picked up these pagan beliefs inferred by the Greek of immortality of the soul, or spirit being of a mortal individual, which survives the death of the body of this world and this lifetime, which is at odds and in contrast to the scriptural teaching that the dead go to the grave and know nothing and then at the end, an eternal oblivion of the wicked and an eternal life for the saints. Scripture makes clear that the dead are awaiting resurrection at the last judgment, when Christ comes and also when each person will receive his reward or are part of those lost with the wicked.\n\nThe Greek words used for those Bibles written in Greek, came loaded with ideas not in line with the original Hebrew, but since at the time, Greek was used as basically English is used today to communicate between people across the world, it was translated into these Greek words, and giving an incorrect understanding of the penalty of sin. In the Hebrew text when people died they went to Sheol, the grave and the wicked ultimately went to Gehenna which is the consuming by fire. So when the grave or the eternal oblivion of the wicked was translated into Greek, the word Hades was sometimes used, which is a Greek term for the realm of the dead. Nevertheless, the meaning depending on context was the grave, death, or the end of the wicked in which they are ultimately destroyed or perish. So we see where the grave or death or eventual destruction of the wicked, was translated using Greek words that since they had no exact ones to use, became a mix of mistranslation, pagan influence, and Greek myth associated with the word, but its original meaning was simple death or the destruction of the wicked at the end.\n\nChristian mortalism is the doctrine that all men and women, including Christians, must die, and do not continue and are not conscious after death. Therefore, annihilationism includes the doctrine that \"the wicked\" are also destroyed rather than tormented forever in traditional \"Hell\" or the lake of fire. Christian mortalism and annihilationism are directly related to the doctrine of conditional immortality, the idea that a human soul is not immortal unless it is given eternal life at the Second Coming of Christ and the resurrection of the dead. Such a belief is based on the many texts which state that the wicked perish:\n\nAnnihilationism asserts that God will eventually destroy or annihilate the wicked when they are consumed in the Lake of Fire at the end, leaving only the righteous to live on in immortality.\nConditional immortality asserts that souls are naturally mortal, and those who reject Christ are separated from the sustaining power of God, thus dying off on their own.\n\nThis is seen in the texts making clear the alternatives at the end are to perish or to have eternal, everlasting life:\n\nAnd that the consequence for sin at the day of judgment when God will judge both the living and the dead when He appears is death, not burning forever. God's gift is eternal life, very different from the penalty of sin:\n\nThe mortality of the soul has been held throughout the history of both Judaism and Christianity, with many biblical scholars looking at the issue through the Hebrew text, have denied the teaching of innate immortality. Rejection of the immortality of the soul, and advocacy of Christian mortalism, was a feature of Protestantism since the early days of the Reformation with Martin Luther himself rejecting the traditional idea, though his view did not carry into orthodox Lutheranism. One of the most notable English opponents of the immortality of the soul was Thomas Hobbes who describes the idea as a Greek \"contagion\" in Christian doctrine. Modern proponents of conditional immortality include as denominations the Seventh-day Adventists, Bible Students, Jehovah's Witnesses, Christadelphians, and some other Protestant Christians.\n\nSome apologists argue that Hell exists because of free will, and that Hell is a choice rather than an imposed punishment. Jonathan L. Kvanvig writes:\n\nSimilarly, Dave Hunt (1996) writes:\n\nAn example from popular culture can be found in the graphic novel series \"The Sandman\". In it, souls go to Hell because they believe that they deserve to, rather than being condemned to it by God or Satan.\n\nUniversal reconciliation is the doctrine or belief of some Christians that all will receive salvation because of the love and mercy of God. Universal reconciliation does not commit one to the position that one can be saved apart from Christ. It only commits one to the position that all will eventually be saved through Christ. Neither does universal reconciliation commit one to the position that there is no Hell or damnation—Hell can well be the consuming fire through which Christ refines those who turn from him. Universal reconciliation only claims that one day Death and Hades themselves will be destroyed and all immortal souls will be reconciled to Him.\n\nIt was traditionally claimed by some western scholars such as the Universalist historian George T. Knight (1911) and Pierre Batiffol (English translation 1914) that a form of universal salvation could be found among some theologians in early Christianity. Origen interpreted the New Testament's reference (Acts 3:21) to a \"restoration of all things\", (Greek: apocatastasis of all things), as meaning that sinners \"might\" be restored to God and released from Hell, returning the universe to a state identical to its pure beginnings. This theory of apocatastasis could be easily interpreted to imply that even devils would be saved, as was the case during the later Origenist controversies. Greek orthodox scholars do not count Gregory of Nyssa (AD 331–395) as a believer in Universal Salvation.\n\nIn the 17th century, a belief in Christian universalism appeared in England and traveled over to what has become the present-day US Christian Universalists such as Hosea Ballou argued that Jesus taught Universalist principles including universal reconciliation and the divine origin and destiny of all souls. Ballou also argued that some Universalist principles were taught or foreshadowed in the Old Testament. Critics of universalism maintain that the Bible does not teach universal salvation, while proponents insist that it does.\n\nRecent examples of advocates for the position are Kallistos Ware, a Greek Orthodox bishop and retired University of Oxford theologian who states that many of the 'Fathers of Church' postulated the idea of salvation for all, and Saint Silouan of Mt. Athos, who argued that the compassion and love of those in heaven and on earth will extend to eliminating suffering even in hell. In terms of Biblical citations, Father David A. Fisher, Pastor of St. Anthony of Padua\nMaronite Church and professor of philosophy at Ohio Central State University, has argued that total reconciliation seems to arise from the First Epistle to the Corinthians such as 1 Corinthians 15:22, \"As all die in Adam, so all will be made alive in Christ\", and 1 Corinthians 15:28, \"God will be all in all.\" Verses that seem to contradict the tradition of complete damnation and come up in arguments also include Lamentations 3:31–33 (NIV), \"For no one is cast off by the Lord forever. Though he brings grief, he will show compassion, so great is his unfailing love\", and 1 Timothy 4:10 (NIV), \"We have put our hope in the living God, who is the Savior of all people, and especially of those who believe.\"\n\nWith regards to the problem of hell, as one that can be traced to the more fundamental theological dilemma of God and the existence of good and evil, theodicy offers its own answers. The main issue holds that if God is all good, powerful, and perfect, then how can he allow evil and, by extension, hell to exist? For some thinkers, the existence of evil and hell could mean that God is not perfectly good and powerful or that there is no God at all. Theodicy tries to address this dilemma by reconciling an all-knowing, all-powerful, and omnibenevelont God with the existence of evil and suffering, outlining the possibility that God and evil can coexist. There are several thoughts or theodicies such as biblical theodicy, the theodicy attributed to Gottfried Leibniz, Plotinian, Irenean, and Augustinian, among others. These differ in their respective arguments but, overall, these theodicies - as opposed to a defense that demonstrates the existence of God and evil or hell - seek to demonstrate a framework where God's existence is plausible. It is, therefore, a logical instead of evidential answer to the problem. A theodicy explains God's reason for allowing evil, that there is a greater good that justifies such permission.\n\nSome Catholic theologians such as Karl Rahner, Gisbert Greshake, and Cardinal Hans Urs von Balthasar have at length discussed the possibility that any man may be led by a final grace to freely willed repentance if necessary at least at some point in the process of dying. This possible process is described thus by the late Munich dogmatic Prof. Michael Schmaus: \"If in terms of theology death is a meeting of a man with God in so far as God calls man and he answers obedience, readiness and love, it would be surprising if in the moment of dying the chances of taking position never were given, even contrary to the outward look. [...] One cannot apply to experience as counter-argument, because [...] what happens then in the interior and behind the physiological processes is only known by someone who experiences dying itself, and this unto its very end. We may assume that in the dissolving process of the earthly union of body and soul and with the progressing breakaway from earthly entanglements, a special awakeness accrues to man [...] in which he can say yea or nay to God.\"\n\nBalthasar was careful to describe his opinion that Hell might be empty as merely a hope, but even this claim was rejected by most conservative Catholics, including Cardinal Avery Dulles. The Syllabus says in no. 17 that we may not (even) hope for the salvation of all non-Catholics; this seems to mean conversely that there is at least one non-Catholic in all history who will not be saved. Matthew 7:21–23 seems to say that \"many\" will be reproved, which may imply hell (not some lesser purgatory). On the other hand, error no. 17 in question only speaks of those \"in the true Church of Christ,\" which need not imply the visible Church. Roman Catholicism allows for the possibility that non-Catholics can be saved, and rejected the view known as Feeneyism, which held that only people in visible communion with the Catholic Church could be saved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15948895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15948895", "title": "Richard Kilvington", "text": "Richard Kilvington\n\nRichard Kilvington (c. 1302-1361) was an English scholastic philosopher at the University of Oxford. His surviving works are lecture notes from the 1320s and 1330s. He was a Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. He was involved in a controversy over the nature of the infinite, with Richard FitzRalph, of Balliol College.\n\nIn the 1340s he worked for Richard of Bury, bishop of Durham.\n\n"}
{"id": "21030880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21030880", "title": "Spiritual naturalism", "text": "Spiritual naturalism\n\nSpiritual naturalism, or naturalistic spirituality combines mundane and spiritual ways of looking at the world. Spiritual naturalism may have first been proposed by Joris-Karl Huysmans in 1895 in his book \"En Route\" – \"In 'En Route' Huysmans started upon the creation of what he called 'Spiritual Naturalism,' that is, realism applied to the story of a soul. ...\".\n\nComing into prominence as a writer during the 1870s, Huysmans quickly established himself among a rising group of writers, the so-called Naturalist school, of whom Émile Zola was the acknowledged head...With Là-bas (1891), a novel which reflected the aesthetics of the spiritualist revival and the contemporary interest in the occult, Huysmans formulated for the first time an aesthetic theory which sought to synthesize the mundane and the transcendent: \"spiritual Naturalism\". Long before the term spiritual naturalism was coined by Huysmans, there is evidence of the value system of spiritual naturalism in the Stoics. \"Virtue consists in a will that is in agreement with Nature\".\n\nSpirituality (from the Latin root \"spiritus\" 'breath, spirit', from \"spirare\" 'breathe') is an overarching concept related to religion and \"affecting the human spirit or soul as opposed to material or physical things\". With many different definitions as scholars try to pin down exactly what it is they are defining, it has tended to have a more positive connotation than religion broadly in recent years because of its \"association with personal experiences of the transcendent\". It is seen as more positive because of trends toward privileging individuality, and so many different definitions are given it by many different people, any one of them unlikely to satisfy everyone.\n\nIn fact, the term is so broad and so dependent on who is using how, why, when, and in what context, that some have given up on trying to give it a comprehensive definition and just say that it means something different to all who use it. Perhaps a less necessarily contextual definition is found in the words of K. I. Pargament, who sees spirituality as a \"search for the sacred\" of each individual.\n\nNaturalism (from Latin \"natura\" 'birth, nature, quality') is \"the idea or belief that only natural (as opposed to supernatural or spiritual) laws and forces operate in the world\". It has been especially prominent in America, and has been a valuable tool in scientific endeavors to discover the natural laws of the universe as it believes that everything can be explained through the language and explanatory power of empirical scientific experimentation. It is not, however, necessarily a lack of religion; given a definition of religion that includes searching for the truths of the universe, naturalism is eminently describable as such. Scholar Jerome A. Stone gives the definition as \"affirm[ing] that attention should be focused on the events and processes of this world to provide what degree of explanation and meaning are possible to this life\".\n\nThe spiritual variety of naturalism finds ways to reconcile the feelings of awe and religious experience with the idea that everything is natural and can be studied using methods applicable to studying nature, including the place of humans in the universe.\n\nSpiritual Naturalism is a variety of philosophical and religious worldviews that are naturalistic in their basic viewpoint but have a spiritual and religious perspective also. Chief among modern forms of Spiritual Naturalism are religious naturalism, religious humanism, dualist pantheism, and humanistic religious naturalism. The term may also apply to the beliefs of some (naturalistic) pagans, process thinkers, many Taoists, a number of Hindus, and a variety of non-affiliated independent thinkers who base their spiritual experience directly on Nature itself rather than traditional deities and the supernatural (i.e. Epicureans). Some liberal Jewish congregations, nontheist Friends, and Unitarians have similar orientations in their adoption of Religious Naturalism beliefs.\n\nAlthough the overall movement toward these attitudes remains relatively small and loosely organized, various forms of Spiritual Naturalism have existed since time immemorial, with the pantheistic philosophies of Taoism and similar Eastern nature-mysticisms being perhaps the most notable example. At present, there is a growing interest in adopting a Spiritual Naturalism rational alternative for the modern world because many are losing their belief in more traditional spiritual avenues. This is demonstrated in the recent rapid growth of Religious Naturalism, pantheism (particularly of an avowedly naturalistic variety) and some liberal Christian perspectives. Theologians such as John Shelby Spong and Paul Tillich have embraced thinking that is non-secular naturalist.\n\nCrucial challenges for the spiritual naturalism movement in its various forms currently involve developing and promulgating a conciliate understanding of the somewhat ambiguous terms \"spirituality\" and \"naturalism\". The difference in interpreting the difference between religious and spiritual, humanist and naturalist and free will and determinism also needs a consensus. In addition the individualistic nature and thinking of many of the adherents preclude organizing cohesive communities. However recent authors (Ursula Goodenough, Chet Raymo, Karl E. Peters, Loyal Rue and Stuart Kauffman) are highlighting the paradigm via their naturalistic writings.\n\nIn addition a few modern theologians with liberal orientations have rejected some of the historical claims of some biblical doctrines and supernaturalism and moved to progressive forms of Christianity and Judaism akin to theistic naturalism. Examples are: Mordecai Kaplan, John Shelby Spong, Paul Tillich, John A. T. Robinson, William Murry and Gordon Kaufman. Some of those into process theology may also be included in this movement.\n\nSpiritual Naturalism has advocates that cover the religious spectrum including neo-theism (neo-Christianity, process theology), non-theism, and not-theism, though the advocates are by no means limited to these orientations. The majority probably are agnostic or atheistic while many prefer not to be categorized. There is a vast difference in opinions on how to address the question of a deity of some kind, if at all. There are those who see God as the creative process within/of the universe, those who define God as the totality of the universe (The All), some who use God in metaphoric ways, those who have no need to use the concept or terminology of God even as a metaphor, and some who are atheistic proclaiming there is no such entity whatsoever and rebel against usage of the term.\n\nSpiritual Naturalism is chiefly concerned with finding ways to access traditional spiritual feelings without the inclusion of supernatural elements incompatible with science and a broad naturalism. Adherents believe that nature, in all its diversity and wonder, is sufficient unto itself in terms of eliciting the intellectual and emotional responses associated with spiritual experience, and that there is no need for faith in the traditional anthropomorphic concept of 'god' or similar ideas.\n\nAdherents of Spiritual Naturalism are generally scientifically-oriented in most aspects, with their primary difference from other naturalists being their belief that the abandonment of superstition does not necessarily entail the abandonment of spirituality. To adherents, the intellectual and emotional experience of something greater than oneself is seen as a phenomenon of enduring value; spirituality may be seen as \"an emotional response to Reality\".\n\nSpiritual Naturalist ideas are most prevalent in Reconstructionist Judaism: a modern Jewish movement based on the ideas of Mordecai Kaplan. Reconstructionist Jews assert that Judaism, as a culture and as a religion, is constantly evolving and adapting to modernity. God is not perceived as a supernatural being, but as being \"manifest in the practice of kindness, justice and righteousness on the earth\". The reconstructionist conception of God is compatible with the spiritual naturalist's assertion that there is no supernatural; spirituality is manifest in the physical world. Kaplan also states that \"the reality of God henceforth will have to be experienced through the functioning of conscience in the conduct of men and nations\". To Kaplan and Reconstructionist Jews, God is the collective consciousness of the Jewish community, not a supernatural other. One strives to know God, and to know God is to know how to live morally.\n\nNaturalism in Christianity is a rarer phenomenon than in some other religions because of the intensity of belief in the personhood of God, especially through the figure of Jesus Christ. Some scholars also posit that the anthropomorphizing tendencies of such religion will not be overcome in the near future, partly because the categories of the supernatural are too well suited to our current attitude toward nature: Westernized societies tend to view nature as something to be used, not something to feel religious awe towards.\n\nWith the development of scientific thought and the discoveries in evolution, physics, etc. have come challenges to the Christian worldview. Over time, various ideas on how to reconcile these scientific truths with theological truths of the doctrines of Christianity. There is the once-popular clockwork universe theory, which states that God made the universe to run its course mechanically predetermined; however, this has lost popularity after more discoveries about the probabilistic nature of the universe. There is also the idea that God interferes supernaturally in ways that mask the presence of the supernatural—perhaps at the quantum level where scientists cannot precisely determine anything. This tends toward making a joke of everything scientists strive for.\n\nAnother interpretation, one where both truths may be simultaneous and coterminous comes from the New Testament quote \"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God... Through him all things were made; without him nothing was made that has been made.\" This can be interpreted as saying that the Word of God is not God, but the perfect expression of God that is God and is not God but brings forth creation. In the words of Rudolf Brun \"The Christian revelation about creation does not proclaim that creation is an extension or a function embedded in God. Rather, the Word of God that is and remains God is given away to creation. It is a gift that empowers creation to become itself.\" This allows God to be all things (pantheism) and in all things (panentheism) without either of those cases being true. It allows Christian belief in God to be worked into a worldview where there is no predetermined path for the cosmos, because God so loved the world that the Word was given freely to become nature in all its creativity and freedom.\n\n\"The term Tao means \"way\", \"path\", or \"principle\", and can also be found in Chinese philosophies and religions other than Taoism. In Taoism, however, Tao denotes something that is both the source of, and the force behind, everything that exists. Taoist propriety and ethics may vary depending on the particular school, but in general they tend to emphasize Wu-wei (action through non-action), \"naturalness\", simplicity, spontaneity, and the Three Treasures: compassion, moderation, and humility.\" \"Though Tao is ultimately transcendent, it is also immanent. In this secondary sense it is the way of the universe, the norm, the rhythm, the driving power in all nature, the ordering principle behind all life.\"\n\n\"Tao can be talked about, but not the Eternal Tao. \nNames can be named, but not the Eternal Name.\nAs the origin of heaven-and-earth, it is nameless:\nAs the \"Mother\" of all Things it is nameable.\"\n\n\"In a way, Spiritual Naturalism could be looked at as a form of philosophical Buddhism. There are many schools and ways of conceiving of Buddhism and practicing it. Many of Buddhism's concepts can be interpreted in naturalistic terms. Buddhism has certainly inspired the Spiritual Naturalist practices of meditation, mindfulness, compassion, and more. Therefore, there is much overlap and many people are both Buddhists and Spiritual Naturalists\". The Noble Eightfold Path and the Five Precepts of Buddhism are rooted in right relationship between the devotee, morality, and practices that align with naturalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10424672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10424672", "title": "Stephen David Ross", "text": "Stephen David Ross\n\nStephen David Ross (born 1935) is an American philosopher, currently Distinguished Research Professor of Philosophy, Interpretation, and Culture and of Comparative Literature at Binghamton University. He has published over 30 books in interdisciplinary philosophy, especially on art, literature, ethics, and metaphysics, from American pragmatism through poststructuralism, from human beings to animals and things.\n\nHe was born May 4, 1935 to Allan Ross and Bessie Schlosberg. He studied mathematics at Columbia University where he received an MA in 1957, and a PhD in philosophy in 1961. He taught philosophy at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and the University of Colorado in Boulder before moving to Binghamton University/State University of New York in 1967. He married Marilyn Gaddis Rose in 1968.\n\nHe spent the rest of his teaching career in Binghamton where he helped create two interdisciplinary PhD programs, one in Philosophy, Literature, and the Theory of Criticism in the Department of Comparative Literature, the second in Philosophy, Interpretation, and Culture (PIC), located first in the Department of Philosophy, later becoming an independent program. He was appointed Distinguished Professor of Philosophy, Interpretation, and Culture and of Comparative Literature in 2006. He is currently Alfred North Whitehead Fellow in the European Graduate School, Saas-Fee, Switzerland. He was editor of the journal International Studies in Philosophy from 1979-2011.\n\nHis career has been devoted to different possibilities of expressing and living with uncertain beliefs, unsettled experiences, and inexhaustible realities. He has explored different forms of writing and varied terminologies for expressing what resists expression, based on the conviction that such a resistance requires constant vigilance and innovative writing, the constant production and transformation of forms of knowledge, especially including philosophy, whose relations to art, literature, science, and religion enrich it profoundly with novel and imaginative questions and answers.\n\nHe began in American pragmatism, reading it to question itself fundamentally and to entail the \"inexhaustibility\" of nature and reason, the mysteriousness of things. He wrote several books on ordinality and an \"ordinal metaphysics\", influenced by his mentor, Justus Buchler. He turned then to Alfred North Whitehead and his notion of prehension or perspective. A universe of orders composed of orders composing other orders, of perspectives, is an inexhaustible universe without totality. Everything is limited, including every limit, an inexhaustible play of limit and unlimit.\n\nIn 2002 he came to believe that such a sense of inexhaustibility required a very different style of writing, more literary and oblique, and found this in post-Heideggerian writings, especially Michel Foucault, Jacques Derrida, Emmanuel Levinas, and Deleuze and Guattari. \"The Ring of Representation\" was written in sonorous and voiced verbs—ringing, sounding—avoiding all forms of the verb \"to be\" so as to question the question of Being.\n\nAn ongoing theme throughout his work was that of an infinite ethics, infinite in each decision and inclusive of all things. This led him to Levinas's notions of \"betrayal\" and \"generosity\", two notions that would deeply influence his writing. Betraying contains a double meaning, violation and revelation. He linked it with Anaximander's notion of injustice in all things, later defining it as the nonidentity of every identity with itself, a systematic and pervasive sense of how nature and reason exceed themselves, with evolution a foremost example of the first, art and literature of the second.\n\nThis was followed by seven volumes on gifts and generosity, undercutting the sense of possessing and having that color traditional views of knowledge, truth, and being. Then followed explorations of images in philosophy and art, understanding the world as images, a different way of thinking of perspectives. Images proliferate from other images, revealing and betraying them. This double movement of betraying led to books on enchantment and disenchantment, on asking and telling, to a novel, returning to an infinite and inclusive ethics through animals and other things.\n\nThese all express a sense of unceasing questioning, and questioning that questioning, that he suggests is profoundly ethical: ethical fullness.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3487305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3487305", "title": "Steve Fuller (sociologist)", "text": "Steve Fuller (sociologist)\n\nSteve William Fuller (born 12 July 1959) is an American philosopher-sociologist in the field of science and technology studies. He has published in the areas of social epistemology, academic freedom, and the subjects of intelligent design and transhumanism.\n\nFuller attended Regis High School in Manhattan. Admitted as a John Jay Scholar to Columbia University, he majored in History and Sociology and graduated \"summa cum laude\" in 1979. Awarded a Kellett Fellowship, he studied at Clare College, Cambridge, and received an M.Phil. in History and Philosophy of Science in 1981. He earned his Ph.D. in the same subject from the University of Pittsburgh in 1985, where he was an Andrew Mellon Pre-Doctoral Fellow. Fuller's doctoral dissertation, \"Bounded Rationality in Law and Science\", explored the implications of the views of Herbert A. Simon for political theory and philosophy of science.\n\nFuller held assistant and associate professorships at the University of Colorado at Boulder, Virginia Tech and the University of Pittsburgh. In 1994, he was appointed to the chair in sociology and social policy at the University of Durham, England. He moved in 1999 to the University of Warwick, England. In July 2007 Fuller was awarded a D. Litt. by Warwick in recognition of \"published work or papers which demonstrate a high standard of important original work forming a major contribution to a subject\". In 2008, Fuller served as President of the Sociology section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. In that capacity, he staged a play, \"Lincoln and Darwin—Live for One Night Only!\", at the BA's annual Festival of Science in Liverpool. The play was later produced as a podcast in Australia.\n\nFuller has been a visiting professor in Denmark, Germany, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden (where he held a Fulbright Professorship in 1995 at Gothenburg University), and the United States (UCLA).\n\nIn 2010 Fuller became a Senior Fellow at the Center for the Study of Interdisciplinarity at the University of North Texas. In 2011, the University of Warwick appointed him to the Auguste Comte Chair in Social Epistemology. In 2011, Fuller was appointed a Fellow of the UK Academy of Social Sciences. In 2012, he was appointed to an Honorary Professorship at Dalian University of Technology, China. In 2012, he was made a member of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts in Division I (Humanities).\n\nFuller is most closely associated with social epistemology as an interdisciplinary research program. Social epistemology is a normative discipline that addresses philosophical problems of knowledge using the tools of history and the social sciences. Fuller founded the first journal (1987) and wrote the first book (1988) devoted to this topic. The most obvious feature of Fuller's approach, already present in his 1988 book, is that he rejects out of hand the Cartesian problem of scepticism.\n\nAlong with 21 books, Fuller has written 65 book chapters, 155 academic articles and many minor pieces. He has given many distinguished lectures and plenary addresses, and has presented to academic and non-academic audiences throughout the world, including over 100 media interviews. His works have been translated into fifteen languages. 23 academic symposia have been published on his work. He moved to the United Kingdom in 1994, the year he organized a conference in Durham on \"Science's Social Standing\".\n\nSince moving to the UK, Fuller has increasingly oriented himself towards public intellectual expression, including television, radio and internet, which he interprets as a natural outgrowth of his version of social epistemology. Two of his books have been recognised in this regard. \"Kuhn vs. Popper\" was Book of the Month for February 2005 in the US mass circulation magazine, \"Popular Science\". However, Rupert Read wrote: \"I did not have to read far into this book in order to conclude that it is worthless. ... In sum: this book offers only a cartoon opposition of a fake 'Popper' to a fake 'Kuhn.'\" Fuller responded, coining the word \"Kuhnenstein\" (Kuhn + Wittgenstein) to capture Read's view of Kuhn, which Fuller calls a \"figment of Read's – and other's – fertile imagination.\" \"The Intellectual\" was selected as a Book of the Year in 2005 by the UK liberal-left magazine, \"New Statesman\". He periodically contributes a column to the Project Syndicate, associated with George Soros' Open Society project, which appears in several languages in newspapers across the world. In 2006 he also taught a course on the epistemology of journalism at an international summer school at the University of Lund, Sweden.\n\nFuller believes (modeled on what he takes to be the German model) that academic freedom is a freedom reserved for academics, not a special case of freedom of speech. This includes the right to \"cause reasoned offence\", if within the terms of reason and evidence appropriate to the academic profession. He believes it important for academics to be able to express intellectual opinions for further debate which can result in progress. He also argues that students are equally entitled to academic freedom.\n\nFuller has made many statements about his support for intelligent design (ID) and authored two books on the subject. In 2005, in the case of \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", he testified on behalf of a local school system in the United States that required the teaching of intelligent design. The decision of the U.S. District Court held that intelligent design was a form of creationism and that its inclusion in the curriculum violated the U.S. Constitution's prohibition on the establishment of religion. The decision repeatedly cited Fuller's testimony to undermine the school system's position. Some of Fuller's critics within the Science and Technology Studies community described his participation in the trial as \"naive\" and suggested that the field needs further development before it can constructively engage the legal community on the nature of science.\n\nFuller has said that he does not support intelligent design \"but feels that it should have a 'fair run for its money. In his book \"Dissent over Descent\", he says he sees religion in general as a motivating influence in scientific pursuits and believes that the difference between science and religion is more institutional than intellectual. Critics have called his views on science postmodernist, though others characterise them as more closely related to social constructionism.\n\nOn 21 February 2007, Fuller debated Lewis Wolpert at Royal Holloway, University of London on whether evolution and intelligent design should be accorded equal status as scientific theories. Fuller supported the proposition. Fuller endorsed a work in support of Intelligent Design, the Discovery Institute's textbook \"\" (2007).\n\nAppearing in the 2008 film \"\", Fuller told an interviewer:\nFuller openly acknowledges that while some people simply do not like or accept either 'design in nature' or that human beings were created \"in the image and likeness of God\" (\"imago Dei\"), many people do and that it has been a consistent fixture in the progress, development and motivation for doing modern science.\n\nMuch of his work focuses on questions around technological enhancements and how they can improve the capacities of human beings. Fuller argues that the pursuit for enhancements is based on a need ″to create some distance between ourselves and the other animals.″ For Fuller, transhumanism offers humanity the prospect \"to re-engineer the human body to enable us to live longer so as to work and play harder.\" \n\nHe featured in the 2016 documentary The Future of Work and Death. \n\nIn 2007, Fuller wrote \"Science Vs Religion?: Intelligent Design and the Problem of Evolution\". In addition to introductory and conclusionary chapters, it has chapters on the history of the relationship between religion and science, the thesis that modern science has its basis in an attempt by humanity to transcend itself and reach God, how Fuller believes complexity distinguishes ID from \"other versions of creationism\", legal issues, and the future of \"Darwinism\".\n\nProfessor of mathematics at Rutgers University, Norman Levitt in a review described it as \"a truly miserable piece of work, crammed with errors scientific, historical, and even theological\". Levitt took issue with the following points: \nLevitt infers that Fuller's views arise from an \"animosity to science as such and to its cognitive authority [that] still pervades academic life outside the dominion of the science faculty\".\nFuller later responded to these points, accusing Levitt of axe-grinding and questioning his understanding of the book, which Fuller claimed was less a defense of contemporary intelligent design theory than a demonstration of its rootedness in the history of science. Fuller also claims that Levitt misquotes one of the three passages Levitt cites from the book, making it mean the opposite of the original. Levitt subsequently responded at length to Fuller, concluding that \"Fuller's misreading of the politics that generated and sustains the ID movement is so complete as to constitute a peculiar pathology all its own.\" Fuller has long been highly critical of the views of science of his opponents in the Science Wars, including Levitt, dating back at least to 1994.\n\nSahotra Sarkar, a philosophy professor and integrative biologist at the University of Texas at Austin also criticised Fuller's book for presenting an \"analysis of the intellectual disputes over contemporary ID creationism [that] is almost vacuous\". Sarkar further states that the book has an idiosyncratic interpretation of the history of philosophy, including of Kant, and of logical positivism; having a limited grasp of the history of science, including making claims about Newton, Cuvier, Agassiz, Lamarck, Mendel, Pearson and Galton that are not supported by their writings; failure to engage the \"debate over naturalism that ID creationism has generated\" with \"remarks on supernaturalism [that show] him to be equally non-cognizant of the work of ... Philip Johnson\"; and other scientific errors.\n\nIn 2008 Fuller's book on the intelligent design controversy, \"Dissent Over Descent: Intelligent Design's Challenge to Darwinism\" was published. Steven Poole of The Guardian wrote: \"book is an epoch-hopping parade of straw men, incompetent reasoning and outright gibberish, as when evolution is argued to share with astrology a commitment to \"action at a distance\", except that the distance is in time rather than space. It's intellectual quackery like this that gives philosophy of science a bad name.\" Michael Ruse, Philosopher of Science at Florida State University wrote in the journal \"Science\" that Fuller's book \"is completely wrong and is backed by no sound scholarship whatsoever. In at least one case, Fuller makes his case by an egregious misreading—of something I wrote about the role of genetic drift in Sewall Wright's shifting balance theory. For the record, Charles Darwin set out to provide a cause, what he called—following his mentors like William Whewell (who in turn referred back to Newton)—a true cause or \"vera causa\". Darwin felt, and historians and philosophers of science as well as practicing evolutionary biologists still feel, that he succeeded…\" In a \"book of the week\" review by retired Divinity Professor Keith Ward in the \"Times Higher Education Supplement,\" the book was praised for providing often overlooked information and provocative interpretations, but was criticised for a number of inaccuracies and misrepresentations.\n\nA. C. Grayling, in New Humanist, wrote that the book contains a \"mark of ignorance and historical short-sightedness on Fuller's part\". In response, Fuller wrote an online response saying \"if Grayling's grasp of the history of science went beyond head-banging standards, he would realise that our current level of scientific achievement would never have been reached, and more importantly that we would not be striving to achieve more, had chance-based explanations dominated over the design-based ones in our thinking about reality.\" To which Grayling wrote: \"Steve Fuller complains, as do all authors whose books are panned, that I did not read his book properly (or at all).\" He continued, \"I'll take on Fuller any day regarding the history and theology of the various versions of Christianity with which humanity has been burdened. […] The same applies to the history of science.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1524635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524635", "title": "Supererogation", "text": "Supererogation\n\nSupererogation (Late Latin: \"supererogatio\" \"payment beyond what is due or asked\", from \"super\" \"beyond\" and \"erogare\" \"to pay out, expend\", itself from \"ex\" \"out\" and \"rogare\" \"to ask\") is the performance of more than is asked for; the action of doing more than duty requires. In ethics, an act is supererogatory if it is good but not morally required to be done. It refers to an act that is more than is necessary, when another course of action—involving less—would still be an acceptable action. It differs from a duty, which is an act wrong not to do, and from acts morally neutral. Supererogation may be considered as performing above and beyond a normative course of duty to further benefits and functionality.\n\nIn the theology of the Roman Catholic Church, \"works of supererogation\" (also called \"acts of supererogation\") are those performed beyond what God requires. For example, in 1 Corinthians 7, Paul the Apostle says that while everyone is free to marry, it is better to refrain from marriage and remain celibate to better serve God. The Roman Catholic Church holds that the counsels of perfection are supererogatory acts, which specific Christians may engage in above their moral duties. Similarly, it teaches that to determine how to act, one must engage in reasonable efforts to be sure of what the right actions are; after the reasonable action, the person is in a state of invincible ignorance and guiltless of wrongdoing, but to undertake more than reasonable actions to overcome ignorance is supererogatory, and praiseworthy.\n\nAccording to the classic teaching on indulgences, the works of supererogation performed by all the saints form a treasure with God, the \"treasury of merit,\" which the church can apply to exempt repentant sinners from the works of penitence that would otherwise be required of them to achieve full reconciliation with the church.\n\nMartin Luther's opposition of this teaching seeded the Protestant Reformation. The Church of England denied the doctrine of supererogation in the fourteenth of the Thirty-Nine Articles, which states that works of supererogation\ncannot be taught without arrogancy and impiety: for by them men do declare, that they not only render unto God as much as they are bound to, but that they do more for his sake, than of bounden duty is required: whereas Christ saith plainly, When ye have done all that are commanded to you, say, We are unprofitable servants\nLater Protestant movements followed suit, such as in the Methodist Articles of Religion.\n\nA Muslim must complete a minimum of the five daily prayers, each typically lasting an average of 5 to 10 minutes. Supererogatory prayers beyond these are known as nafl prayers, and praying them is considered to bear additional reward. There are also several other supererogatory acts in Islam, such as fasting outside of the month of Ramadhan, or giving sadaqah (charity, consisting of simple acts of kindness to financial assistance) that is not obligatory.\n\nWhether an act is supererogatory or obligatory can be debated. In many schools of thought, donating money to charity is supererogatory. In other schools of thought that regard some level of charitable donation to be duty (such as with the tithe in Judaism, zakat in Islam, and similar standards in many Christian sects), only exceeding a certain level of donation (e.g. going above the common 2.5%-of-capital-assets standard in zakat) would count as supererogatory.\n\nIn criminal law, it may be observed that state prohibitions on killing, stealing, and so on derive from the state's duty to protect one's own citizens. However, a nation state has no duty to protect the citizens of an adjacent nation from crime. To send a peacekeeping force into another country would be — in the view of the nation doing it — supererogatory.\n\nSome schools of ethics do not include supererogatory acts. In utilitarianism, an act can only be better because it would bring more good to a greater number, and in that case it becomes a duty, not a supererogatory act. The lack of a notion of supererogation in utilitarianism and related schools leads to the demandingness objection, arguing that these schools are too ethically demanding, requiring unreasonable acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "54496814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54496814", "title": "Syed Abdul Sayeed", "text": "Syed Abdul Sayeed\n\nSyed Abdul Sayeed is an Indian philosopher and professor of philosophy at The English and Foreign Languages University. He has perviously taught in Aligarh Muslim University for eighteen years. \nSayeed received his PhD in 1985 from IIT Kanpur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19648478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19648478", "title": "The Eighth Day (bioethics book)", "text": "The Eighth Day (bioethics book)\n\nThe Eighth Day is the second book of Dr. Euler Renato Westphal, originally published in Portuguese with the title O Oitavo Dia: Na era da seleção natural.\n\nIn the second book of Dr. Euler Westphal, professor of Systematic Theology and Ethical Issues, the Brazilian researcher analyses the scientific and technological advancement to propose a multidisciplinary dialogue about bioethics.\n\nThis book is at the basis of the curriculum of the Interdisciplinarity Seminarium of the Lutheran School of Theology in São Bento do Sul, Brazil. It's also an important book in the discussion of the Theology as a science, and its relationship with other sciences particularly Biology, and Philosophical Ethics.\n\nHe finds on the post-modern thinking and its concepts of performativity, utility, and lucrativity, and the Bauhaus model of bricolage a new scientific paradigm. The post-modern paradigm broke with the modern paradigm of rationality.\n\nThe post-modernism look at the nature as a good thing when it is useful to the humankind, because science and human power are coincident. In the post-modern religion the eschatological and messianic hope is no more in Jesus Christ, but in the efforts to find out a possibility to immortality, good wealth and eternal life through genetical improvement. The wishes of the post-modern man are to reach the perfect human being, the great wealth, without illness and death, the brave new world.\n\nWhen science becomes religion and the scientists become priests the humankind starts a new age of totalitarianism of science. The reality of the Almighty God, Creator and Redeemer, is no more recognized by post-modern man, who now adopt the performativity and lucrativity as a new dogma of scientific religion. Predestination is no more a Christian dogma but a concept of biotechnology. The scientist can see, as a small-great-god, who is predestined by the genetic code to develop an illness, like a cancer. Therefore, the scientist became the one who can choose life or death for a new life under formation.\n88\nThere are many risks on see the science as a religion. Or to put the science as criteria of truth, specially this kind of science that has on post-modern thinking its epistemological base. The practice of get patents of living being its one of these kinds of risks. When an economical group has the patent of a soy bean, than the farmers cannot produce soy without pay royalties to the company that has the patent rights. So poor people at south countries will have their free access to seeds for planting not allowed, in consequence they will not have food for their countries.\n\nThe bioethics is multidisciplinary subject, it dialogues with different ethical issues like philosophical ethics, medical ethics, theological ethics and so one. Theology can give its contribution on situations like abort, euthanasia, research with living beings. The Christian faith can recover the respect with life and its mystery.\n\nIn the Eighth Day the human being has created the brave new world. The little-man-god redesigned the life beings and the human being as image and likeness of the Market-God's utilitarists interests. We need to give the appropriate place to the creation and to the human beings as creation of the Triune God. All things are maintained by the presence of His Holy Spirit. Humility of the science will guarantee that science still be science and not became a religion that promise eternal life, immortality and salvation.\n"}
{"id": "16214990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16214990", "title": "Tres Dias", "text": "Tres Dias\n\nTres Dias is a Christian interdenominational three-day movement which aims to concentrate closely on the person and teachings of Jesus Christ. In 1985 Tres Dias became an international organization when communities were chartered in Korea and Germany. Tres Dias' global reach now includes Denmark, Peru, Ireland, Canada, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, and Russia.\n\nIn 2012, Tres Dias launched its Spanish-speaking set of weekends - called Tres Dias Con Dios. Normally conducted in English, if hosted in the United States, Tres Dias con Dios is conducted entirely in Spanish throughout the three-day event.\n\nThe first Tres Dias Con Dios weekend was held in Southeast TN, called Southeast TN Tres Dias con Dios—Three Days with God.\n\nIn 2015, Tres Dias launched its new website featuring testimonials from community members across the globe, updated newsletters, and blog postings.\n\nIn January 2016, Tres Dias announced a new marketing program called \"Millennial Reach\". The majority of Tres Dias weekend attendees have been between the ages of 45-85. In an effort to reach a younger attendee audience, Tres Dias launched its largest social media marketing plan in its history to date.\n\nThe list of new Tres Dias communities include:\n\n"}
{"id": "44505739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44505739", "title": "Use-of-force law in Missouri", "text": "Use-of-force law in Missouri\n\nUse-of-force law in Missouri refers to the law & legal doctrine which determine whether a member of law enforcement in the state of Missouri is justified in the amount of force used to gain control of an unruly situation or person, including situations involving death. In the United States, doctrine about use of force is primarily defined by the individual states, although there have been some Supreme Court decisions of limited scope.\n\nMissouri's legal experts have said the use of force laws in Missouri are considered more officer-friendly than that in other states. Such laws have come under national scrutiny in the wake of the shooting of Michael Brown in 2014.\n\nCurrent law governing use of force is specified in Missouri Revised Statutes chapter 563, which differ substantially from the laws of neighboring states.\n\nIn the course of their duties, law enforcement personnel use force to subdue suspects. The use of force consists of two parts: the amount of force that may lawfully be used on a continuum that includes deadly force; and the circumstances under which it may be used, including the level of imminent threat reasonably perceived by the member of law enforcement and the concern that a fleeing felon may harm the public. Doctrines are intended to balance security needs with ethical concerns for the rights and well-being of intruders or suspects. In the event that members of the public are injured, this may give rise to issues of self-defense as a justification. In the event of death during a reasonable use of force, this may be legally considered a justifiable homicide. The application of excessive force is considered Police brutality.\n\nState police in the United States are generally given considerable leeway in making the decision about the amount of force needed to save themselves or others. While there is no national definition, the United States Supreme Court has created legal standards for use of force through two key decisions. \"Objective reasonableness\" is a concept from the 1985 \"Tennessee v. Garner\" decision that stated that police officers could not shoot at a fleeing suspect simply to prevent their escape but only if the suspect posed a significant threat of death or serious harm to the community. In the 1989 decision of \"Graham v. Connor\", the court ruled that \"the reasonableness of a particular use of force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene, and its calculus must embody an allowance for the fact that police officers are often forced to make split-second decisions about the amount of force necessary in a particular situation.\" Current local and state doctrines vary in defining these decisions and are tested in civil lawsuits and criminal prosecutions on a case-by-case basis. If a case where the use of force has been applied unevenly based on a suspect's race, sex, disability, religion, or national origin, the Civil Rights Division of the United States Department of Justice is empowered to bring charges for breaking Federal law governing civil rights. When the Department of Justice investigates a pattern of use of force abuses, it can work with a state or agency to create new policies that align with national law and precedent.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies in Missouri exist at the town, county, and state levels and are subject to national guidelines, state laws, and applicable local or county policies. Use of force doctrine is defined in Missouri by state law as well as local policy. From the 1860s, when Missouri became a state, until the 1960s, individual states wrote their own codes, often using common law as a basis. In 1962, the Model Penal Code was published with recommendations to modernize and standardize penal law and criminal law nationally. The code served and continues to serve as a basis for the replacement of existing criminal codes in over two-thirds of the states. Missouri did not incorporate the recommendations. The statutes concerning use of force in Missouri included the stipulation that police officers could use deadly force to stop a fleeing suspect of a felony including the event that the felony was not of a violent nature, such as a crime against property. In 1977, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit struck down these statutes in \"Mattis v. R Schnarr\". The court found that the Missouri statute authorizing the use of deadly force by police attempting to arrest any fleeing felon was unconstitutional as \"an arbitrary imposition of death\" and violation of due process.\n\nIn \"Tennessee v. Garner\", Justice White wrote for the Majority opinion addressing the legal issue as whether the totality of the circumstances justified the deadly force. Because it deprives the suspect of his life, White concluded that deadly force should be applied only when there is a \"reasonable suspicion\" that a suspect is armed or dangerous. The legal concept derives from a prior decision in \"Terry v. Ohio\" (1968) where court recognized law enforcement's right to stop a possible suspect for a brief time and take additional steps to investigate further. In 1989, Graham v. Connor, a similar finding was held; \"\"the reasonableness of a particular use of force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene, and its calculus must embody an allowance for the fact that police officers are often forced to make split-second decisions about the amount of force necessary in a particular situation.\" Although Missouri statute still stated that law enforcement could use force including deadly force on any suspect that \"has attempted to commit or has committed a felony,\" the concept of reasonableness was included. \"...An officer may only use deadly force as permitted by other justifications such a self defense or when he reasonably believes that such use of deadly force is immediately necessary to effect the arrest and also reasonably believes that the person to be arrested a)Has committed or attempted to commit a felony; or b)\nIs attempting to escape by use of a deadly weapon; or c) May otherwise endanger life or inflict serious physical injury unless arrested without delay.\"\n\nInvestigation into possible use of force violation is first conducted internally. A state prosecutor can also apply to judge or grand jury to decide whether there is enough evidence to pursue a prosecution. The application of the standard is interpreted by a jury in criminal cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "11351776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11351776", "title": "Volunteer's dilemma", "text": "Volunteer's dilemma\n\nThe volunteer's dilemma game models a situation in which each of X players faces the decision of either making a small sacrifice from which all will benefit, or freeriding. \n\nOne example is a scenario in which the electricity has gone out for an entire neighborhood. All inhabitants know that the electricity company will fix the problem as long as at least one person calls to notify them, at some cost. If no one volunteers, the worst possible outcome is obtained for all participants. If any one person elects to volunteer, the rest benefit by not doing so.\n\nA public good is only produced if at least one person volunteers to pay an arbitrary cost. In this game, bystanders decide independently on whether to sacrifice themselves for the benefit of the group. Because the volunteer receives no benefit, there is a greater incentive for freeriding than to sacrifice oneself for the group. If no one volunteers, everyone loses. The social phenomena of the bystander effect and diffusion of responsibility heavily relate to the volunteer’s dilemma.\n\nThe payoff matrix for the game is shown below:\nWhen the volunteer's dilemma takes place between only two players, the game gets the character of the game 'chicken'.\nAs seen by the payoff matrix, there is no dominant strategy in the volunteer’s dilemma. In a mixed-strategy Nash equilibrium, an increase in N players will decrease the likelihood that at least one person volunteers, which is a result of the bystander effect.\n\nThe story of Kitty Genovese is often cited as an example of the volunteer's dilemma. Genovese was stabbed to death outside her apartment building in Queens, New York, in 1964. According to a highly influential \"New York Times\" account, dozens of people witnessed the assault but did not get involved because they thought others would contact the police anyway and did not want to incur the personal cost of getting involved. Subsequent investigations have shown the original account to have been unfounded, and although it inspired sound scientific research, its use as a simplistic parable in psychology textbooks has been criticized.\n\nThe meerkat exhibits the volunteer's dilemma in nature. One or more meerkats act as sentries while the others forage for food. If a predator approaches, the sentry meerkat lets out a warning call so the others can burrow to safety. However, the altruism of this meerkat puts it at risk of being discovered by the predator.\n\n"}
{"id": "37377896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37377896", "title": "Waidan", "text": "Waidan\n\nWaidan, translated as external alchemy or external elixir, is the early branch of Chinese alchemy that focuses upon compounding elixirs of immortality by heating minerals, metals, and other natural substances in a luted crucible. The later branch of esoteric \"neidan\" \"inner alchemy\", which borrowed doctrines and vocabulary from exoteric \"waidan\", is based on allegorically producing elixirs within the practitioner's body, through Daoist meditation, diet, and physiological practices. The practice of \"waidan\" external alchemy originated in the early Han dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE), grew in popularity until the Tang (618–907) when \"neidan\" began and several emperors died from alchemical elixir poisoning, and gradually declined until the Ming dynasty (1368–1644). \n\nThe Chinese compound \"wàidān\" combines the common word \"wài\" 外 \"outside; exterior; external\" with \"dān\" 丹 \"cinnabar; vermillion; elixir; alchemy\". The antonym of \"wài\" is \"nèi\" 內 meaning \"inside; inner; internal\", and the term \"wàidān\" 外丹 \"external elixir/alchemy\" was coined in connection with the complementary term \"nèidān\" \"internal elixir/alchemy\".\n\nThe sinologist and expert on Chinese alchemy Fabrizio Pregadio lists four generally accepted meanings of \"dan\": \"The color cinnabar, scarlet, or light scarlet\", \"The mineral cinnabar, defined as 'a red stone formed by the combination of quicksilver and sulphur'\", \"Sincerity (corresponding to \"danxin\" 丹心)\", and \"An essence obtained by the refining of a medicinal substance; a refined medicinal substance, the so-called medicine of the seekers of immortality for avoiding aging and death; a term often used for matters concerning the immortal\". Pregadio concludes that the semantic field of the word \"dan\" evolves from a root-meaning of \"essence\", and its connotations include \"the reality, principle, or true nature of an entity or its essential part, and by extension the cognate notions of oneness, authenticity, sincerity, lack of artifice, simplicity, and concentration.\" (2006: 68-70).\n\nThe date for the earliest use of the term \"waidan\" is unclear. It occurs in Du Guangting's 901 \"Daode zhenjing guangshengyi\" 道德真經廣聖義 (Explications Expanding on the Sages [Commentaries] on the \"Daodejing\"), which is quoted in the 978 \"Taiping guangji\". Liu Xiyue's 劉希岳 988 \"Taixuan langranzi jindao shi\" 太玄朗然子進道詩 (Master Taixuan Langran's Poems on Advancing in the Dao) has the earliest mention of both the terms \"neidan\" and \"waidan\" (Baldrian-Hussein 1989: 174, 178, 180).\n\n\"Jindan zhi dao\" 金丹之道 (Way of the Golden Elixir) was a classical name for \"waidan\" alchemy, and \"wàidān shù\" 外丹術 (with 術 \"art; skill; technique; method\") is the Modern Standard Chinese term.\n\nJoseph Needham, the eminent historian of science and technology divided Chinese alchemy into the \"golden age\" (400-800) from the end of the Jin to late Tang dynasty (1976: 117-166) and the \"silver age\" (800-1300) from late Tang to the end of the Song dynasty (1976: 167-207). Furthermore, Fabrizio Pregadio uses \"golden age\" in specific reference to the Tang period (2014: 25)\n\nThe extant Chinese alchemical literature comprises about 100 sources preserved in the \"Daoist Canon\". These texts show that while early \"waidan\" was mainly concerned with the performance of ceremonies and other ritual actions addressed to gods and demons, a shift occurred around the 6th or 7th century to the later tradition that used alchemical symbolism to represent the origins and functioning of the cosmos, which played a crucial role in the development of \"neidan\" (Pregadio 2008: 2002).\n\nLittle is known about the origins of alchemy in China. The historian and sinologist Nathan Sivin gives an approximate timeline: the Chinese belief in the possibility of physical immortality began around the 8th century BCE, the acceptance that immortality was attainable by taking herbal drugs started in the 4th century BCE, but the uncertain date when the idea that immortality drugs could be made through alchemy rather than found in nature was no later than the 2nd century BCE (1968: 25). Despite a later tradition that Zou Yan (c. 305-240 BCE), founder of the School of Yin Yang, was an early alchemist, his biography does not mention alchemy, and no \"waidan\" text is attributed to him (Pregadio 2006: 5).\n\nThe sinologist Homer H. Dubs proposed that the earliest historical allusion to Chinese alchemy was in 144 BCE, but other scholars are doubtful. Emperor Jing of Han's 144 BCE anti-coining edict \"established a statute (fixing) public execution for (privately) coining of cash or counterfeiting gold\" that Dubs believes also made alchemy illegal (tr. Dubs 1947: 63). However, Jing's imperial decree did not ban making alchemical elixirs but rather privately coining money; the commentary of Ying Shao (140-206 CE) explains how it abrogated the 175 BCE edict by the previous Emperor Wen that allowed people to cast coins without authorization (Pregadio 2000: 166).\n\nThe first historically reliable mention of alchemy in China concerns Li Shaojun, a \"fangshi\" \"masters of methods\" who suggested around 133 BCE that Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141-87) should prepare for the \"feng\" 封 and \"shan\" 禪 state rituals to Heaven and Earth by performing an alchemical method of transmuting cinnabar into gold (Pregadio 2008: 1002). According to the c. 94 BCE \"Shiji\",\nLi Shaojun told the Emperor: \"By making offerings to the stove (\"zao\"), one can summon the supernatural beings (\"wu\"). If one summons them, cinnabar can be transmuted into gold. When gold has been produced and made into vessels for eating and drinking, one can prolong one’s life. If one’s life is prolonged, one will be able to meet the immortals of the Penglai Island in the midst of the sea. When one has seen them and has performed the \"feng\" and \"shan\" ceremonies, one will never die. The Yellow Emperor did just so. Your subject formerly, when sailing on the sea, encountered Master Anqi (Anqi Sheng), who feeds on jujube-dates as large as melons. Master Anqi is an immortal who roams about Penglai; when it pleases him to appear to humans, he does so, otherwise he remains invisible.\" Thereupon the Emperor for the first time personally made offerings to the stove. He sent some \"fangshi\" to the sea to search for the legendary Penglai and for alchemists who could transmute cinnabar and other substances into gold. (tr. Pregadio 2006: 10) \nLi Shaojun's immortality elixir in this passage was not meant to be consumed, but used to cast alchemical gold cups and dishes that would supposedly prolong the emperor's life to the point that he could perform the thaumaturgic and ritual prerequisites to ultimately become immortal (Sivin 1968: 25). \n\nAlthough Liu An's c. 120 BCE \"Huainanzi\" does not explicitly refer to alchemy, it does have a passage on the natural evolution of minerals and metals in the earth, which became a prominent idea in later \"waidan\" cosmological texts. They state that elixir compounding reproduces the process through which nature spontaneously transmutes minerals and metals into gold, but alchemy accelerates it by compressing or \"manipulating\" (Sivin 1977) the centuries of time that the natural process requires, using \"huohou\" 火 候 \"fire times\" to match cycles of different lengths (Pregadio 2000: 184). The \"Huainanzi\" context lists \"wu-xing\" \"Five Phases/Elements\" correlations for colors, minerals, and metals. \nThe \"qi\" of balanced earth is received into the yellow heaven, which after five hundred years engenders a yellow jade [possibly realgar or amber]. After five hundred years this engenders a yellow quicksilver, which after five hundred years engenders gold [\"yellow metal\"]. After one thousand years, gold engenders the yellow dragon. The yellow dragon, going into hiding, engenders the yellow springs. When the dust from the yellow springs rises to become a yellow cloud, the rubbing together of yin and yang makes thunder; their rising and spreading out make lightning. What has ascended then descends as a flow of water that collects in the yellow sea. (tr. Major et al. 2010: 170)\nFor each of the Five Colors (yellow, bluegreen, vermillion, white, and black), the \"Huainanzi\" transmutation process involves a corresponding mineral, quicksilver (using the archaic name \"hòng\" 澒 for \"gǒng\" 汞 \"mercury; quicksilver\"), and metal (\"jīn\" 金). The other four colored metamorphoses are bluegreen malachite-quicksilver-lead, vermillion cinnabar-quicksilver-copper, white arsenolite-quicksilver-silver, and black slate-quicksilver-iron. According to Dubs, this passage omits mentioning alchemy because of its illegality, accounts for common alchemical ingredients like quicksilver, and comes from the School of Yin-Yang and perhaps even Zou Yan himself (1947: 70, 73). Major says it is considered to be \"China's oldest statement of the principles of alchemy\" (2010: 152).\n\nThe c. 60 BCE \"Yantie lun\" (Discourses on Salt and Iron) has the earliest reference to the ingestion of alchemical elixirs in a context criticizing Qin Shi Huang's patronage of anyone who claimed to know immortality techniques (Sivin 1968: 26). \"At that time, the masters (\"shi\") of Yan and Qi set aside their hoes and digging sticks and competed to make themselves heard on the subject of immortals and magicians. Consequently the \"fangshi\" who headed for [the Qin capital] Xianyang numbered in the thousands. They asserted that the immortals had eaten of gold and drunk of pearl; after this had been done, their lives would last as long as Heaven and Earth.\" (tr. Pregadio 2006: 31).\n\nThe erudite Han official Liu Xiang (77-6 BCE) attempted and failed to compound alchemical gold. The \"Hanshu\" says that in 61 BCE Emperor Xuan became interested in immortality and employed numerous \"fangshi\" specialists to recreate the sacrifices and techniques used by his great-grandfather Emperor Wu. In 60 BCE, Liu Xiang presented the emperor with a rare alchemical book entitled \"Hongbao yuanbi shu\" 鴻寳苑祕術 (Arts from the Garden of Secrets of the Great Treasure)–which had supposedly belonged to the \"Huainanzi\" compiler Liu An–that described \"divine immortals and the art of inducing spiritual beings to make gold\" and Zou Yan's \"chongdao\" 重道 \"recipe for prolonging life by a repeated method [of transmutation]\" (tr. Dubs 1947: 75). The \"chongdao\" context is also translated as \"a method of repeated (transmutation)\" (Needham et al. 1976: 14), or reading \"zhongdao\" as \"important methods by Zou Yan for prolonging life\" (Pregadio 2006: 27). Emperor Xuan commissioned Liu Xiang to produce alchemical gold, but he was ultimately unsuccessful despite having access to the best available alchemical texts in the imperial library, the expertise of numerous \"fangshi\" and metallurgist assistants, and unlimited imperial resources. In 56 BCE, the emperor ordered Liu to be executed yet later reduced the sentence. Dubs concludes that a \"more complete and adequate test of alchemy could not have been made\" (1947: 77).\n\nThe oldest extant Chinese alchemistic texts, comprising the Taiqing corpus, \"Cantong qi\", and \"Baopuzi\", date from circa the 2nd to 4th centuries.\n\nThe Daoist Taiqing 太清 (Great Clarity) tradition produced the earliest known textual corpus related to \"waidan\". Its main scriptures were the \"Taiqing jing\" 太清經 (Scripture of Great Clarity), the \"Jiudan jing\" 九丹經 (Scripture of the Nine Elixirs), and the \"Jinye jing\" 金液經 (Scripture of the Golden Fluid), which early sources say were revealed to the Han \"fangshi\" Zuo Ci at the end of the 2nd century. Both the \"Baopuzi\" (below) and the received versions of these scriptures in the Daoist Canon show that the Taiqing tradition developed in Jiangnan (lit. \"south of the Yangtze river\") in close relation to local exorcistic and ritual practices (Pregadio 2008: 1002-1003).\n\nThe \"Zhouyi Cantong Qi\" (Token for the Agreement of the Three According to the \"Book of Changes\") or \"Cantong qi\", is traditionally considered the earliest Chinese book on alchemy. Its original version is attributed to Wei Boyang in the mid-2nd century, but the received text was augmented during the Six Dynasties (220-589) period. Unlike the earlier Taiqing tradition, which focuses on ritual, the \"Cantong qi\" is based on correlative cosmology and uses philosophical, astronomical, and alchemical emblems to describe the relation of the Dao to the universe. For instance, the two main emblems are \"zhengong\" 真汞 (Real Mercury) and \"zhenqian\" 真鉛 (Real Lead), respectively corresponding to Original Yin and Original Yang (Pregadio 2008: 1003). This choice of mercury and lead as the prime ingredients for elixir alchemy limited later potential experiments and resulted in numerous cases of poisoning. It is quite possible that \"many of the most brilliant and creative alchemists fell victim to their own experiments by taking dangerous elixirs\" (Needham et al. 1976: 74). The new \"Cantong qi\" view of the alchemical process not only influenced the later development of \"waidan\", but also paved the way for the rise of \"neidan\". From the Tang period onward, the \"Cantong qi\" became main scripture of both \"waidan\" and \"neidan\" alchemies.\n\nThe Daoist scholar Ge Hong's c. 318-330 \"Baopuzi\" devotes two of its twenty chapters to \"waidan\" alchemy. Chapter 4 \"Jindan\" 金丹 \"Gold and Cinnabar\" focuses on the Taiqing corpus, whose methods are mostly based on minerals, and Chapter 16 \"Huangbai\" 黃白 \"The Yellow and the White\" contains formulas centered on metals (Pregadio 2000: 167). Ge Hong says that the ritual context of the two sets of practices was similar, but the scriptures were transmitted by different lineages (Ware l966: 261). In addition, the \"Baopuzi\" quotes, summarizes, or mentions many other \"waidan\" methods, often from unknown sources (Needham et al.1976: 81-113). \n\nChapter 4 \"Gold and Cinnabar\" (Ware 1966: 68-96) provides a variety of formulas for elixirs of immortality. Most of them involve \"shijie\" 尸解 \"liberation from the corpse\", which generates \"a new physical but immortal self (embodying the old personality) that leaves the adept's corpse like a butterfly emerging from its chrysalis\", and is verifiable when the corpse, light in weight as an empty cocoon, did not decay after death. Many \"Baopuzi\" elixirs are based on arsenic and mercury compounds, which have \"excellent embalming properties\" (Sivin 1968: 41). Some less effective elixirs only provide longevity, cure disease, or allow the adept to perform miracles. The \"Baoppuzi\" lists a total of 56 chemical preparations and elixirs, 8 of which were poisonous, with hallucinations from mercury poisoning the most commonly reported symptom (Needham et al. 1976: 89-96).\n\n\"Baopuzi\" Chapter 16 \"The Yellow and the White\" (Ware 1966: 261-278) records several methods for preparing artificial alchemical gold and silver, which when ingested will provide immortality. It also includes a few elixir formulas with effects such as providing invulnerability or reversing the course of a stream (Sivin 1968: 42). Ge Hong emphasizes that \"waidan\" alchemy grants access to higher spiritual realms and is therefore superior to other practices such as healing, exorcism, and meditation (Pregadio 2000: 168).\n\nWhat Needham calls the \"golden age of Chinese alchemy\" (c. 400-800) was from the end of the Jin to the late Tang dynasty.\n\nThe Daoist scholar and alchemist Tao Hongjing (456-536) was a founder of the Shangqing (Highest Clarity) and the compiler-editor of the basic \"Shangqing revelations\" purportedly dictated to Yang Xi by Daoist deities between 364 and 370 (Pregadio 2008: 1002). Many of these revealed texts described immortality elixirs, and Tao incorporated the core \"Taiqing\" (Great Clarity) alchemical texts into the Shangqing corpus, marking the first encounter between \"waidan\" and an established Daoist movement. Although the Shangqing texts used the \"waidan\" process mainly as a support for meditation and visualization practices, the language, techniques, and rituals in these works are mostly identical with those of the Taiqing corpus (Pregadio 2000: 168). Tao was commissioned by Emperor Wu of Liang to experiment with \"waidan\" alchemy and produce elixirs, but only achieved limited success.\n\nThe decline of the original Taiqing tradition resulted in a tendency to focus the alchemical process on two major methods: refining cinnabar into mercury and compounding lead with mercury. Advocates of the cinnabar-mercury \"waidan\" methods, such as the 8th-century alchemist Chen Shaowei 陳少微, described producing quicksilver in cosmological terms, without any reference to the \"Cantong qi\" system. During the Tang dynasty, the lead-mercury tradition based on the \"Cantong qi\" acquired importance, and \"waidan\" alchemy was transformed from an instrument for communicating with supernatural beings to a support for intellectualizing philosophical principles (Pregadio 2000: 170). Several works related to the \"Cantong qi\" rejected cinnabar-mercury methods with the rationale that \"yang\" cinnabar and \"yin\" mercury alone cannot produce the true elixir. Historically, the lead-mercury theory became the predominant method (Pregadio 2008: 1003).\n\nThe Tang period is also known for intensified imperial patronage of \"waidan\", even though elixir poisoning caused the death of Emperors Wuzong (r. 840-846), Xuanzong (r. 846-859), and likely also Xianzong (r. 805-820) and Muzong (r. 829-824) (Pregadio 2008: 1003). While elixir poisoning is sometimes designated as a reason for the decline of \"waidan\" after the Tang, the shift to \"neidan\" was the result of a much longer and more complex process. \"Waidan\" and early \"neidan\" developed together throughout the Tang and were closely interrelated (Needham and Lu 1983, 218-229).\n\nNeedham's \"silver age of Chinese alchemy\" (c. 800-1300) was from the late Tang to the end of the Song dynasty. During the Tang, \"waidan\" literature gradually changed from emphasizing ritual practices to cosmological principles. Early Taiqing tradition texts stress the performance of alchemical rites and ceremonies when compounding, and describe elixirs as tools for either summoning benevolent gods or expelling malicious spirits. Most post-Tang \"waidan\" texts related to \"Cantong qi\" alchemy stress the cosmological significance of elixir compounding and employ numerous abstract notions (Pregadio 2000: 179). After the late Tang period, \"waidan\" gradually declined and the soteriological immortality significance of alchemy was transferred to \"neidan\" (Pregadio 2008: 1003).\n\nImperial interest in alchemy continued during the Song dynasty (960-1279). Emperor Zhenzong (r. 997-1022) established a laboratory in the Imperial Academy, where the Daoist alchemist Wang Jie 王捷 \"produced and presented to the throne artificial gold and silver amounting to many tens of thousands (of cash), brilliant and glittering beyond all ordinary treasures\" (tr. Needham 1976: 186). \n\nMost \"waidan\" sources dating from the Song and later periods are either anthologies of earlier writings or deal with metallurgical techniques (Pregadio 2008: 1003). \"Waidan\" alchemy subsequently declined in the Yuan, Ming, and Qing dynasties (1974: 208-219).\n\nChinese descriptions of alchemical laboratory equipment vary among texts and traditions, but share some common terminology. The following outline concerns alchemical hardware rather than liturgical or magical artifacts such as the sword, sun and moon mirrors, and peach-wood talismans.\n\nThe alchemy laboratory was called the Chamber of Elixirs (\"danshi\" 丹室, \"danwu\" 丹屋, or \"danfang\" 丹房). Sources differ about how to construct one. One text says the Chamber is ideally built near a mountain stream on in a secluded place (compare a clandestine drug lab), and has two doors, facing east and south; another says it should never be built over an old well or tomb, and has doors facing in all directions except north (Pregadio 2000: 188).\n\nA layered \"laboratory bench\" called \"tan\" 壇 \"altar; platform\" was placed either in the center or along a wall of the Chamber (Sivin 1980: 10). It was commonly depicted as a three-tiered clay stove platform, with eight ventilating openings on each tier—8 numerologically signifying \"bafang\" 八方 (lit. \"eight directions\") \"eight points of the compass; all directions\" (Pregadio 2000: 188). The alchemist's heating apparatus, interchangeably called \"lu\" 爐 \"stove; furnace\" or \"zao\" 竈 \"(kitchen) stove\", was placed on the highest tier of the \"tan\" platform. Owing to inconsistent textual terminology, it translates as stove or furnace in some sources and as oven or combustion chamber in others (Sivin 1980: 11). Depending upon the alchemical formula, rice hulls, charcoal, or horse manure served as fuel.\n\nA \"waidan\" alchemical \"fu\" 釜 \"crucible; cauldron\" was placed over the \"zao\" stove or sometimes inside it. The \"shuangfu\" 雙釜 \"double crucible\" was commonly made of red clay and had two halves joined to each other by their mouths (Pregadio 2000: 189). Another type of crucible had an iron lower half and clay upper one (Sivin 1968: 166-168). After placing the ingredients in a crucible, the alchemist would hermetically seal it by applying several layers of a lute clay preparation inside and outside. The classic alchemical luting mixture was \"liuyini\" 六一泥 Six-and-One Mud with seven ingredients, typically alum, Turkestan rock salt (\"rongyan\" 戎鹽), lake salt, arsenolite, oyster shells, red clay, and talc (Pregadio 2000: 189).\nTwo common types of open alchemical reaction vessels were called \"ding\" 鼎 \"tripod; container; cauldron\" and \"gui\" 匱 \"box; casing; container; aludel\" (Sivin 1980: 16). \"Ding\" 鼎 originally named a \"tripod cauldron\" Chinese ritual bronze, but alchemists used the term (and \"dingqi\" 鼎器) in reference to numerous metal or clay instruments with different shapes and functions (Pregadio 2000: 189). \"Ding\" generally named both pots and various other reaction vessels to which fire was applied externally—as distinguished from \"lu\" that contained fire within (Sivin 1980: 16). \"Gui\" 匱 (an old character for \"gui\" 櫃 \"cupboard; cabinet\") was an alchemical name for a reaction vessel casing that was placed within a reaction chamber. Broadly speaking, \"gui\" had lids while \"ding\" were open at the top (Sivin 1980: 18).\n\nBesides the more open bowl-like or crucible forms of reaction vessels, whether lidded or not, many kinds of sealed containers were employed. Two common ones were the \"shenshi\" 神室 (lit. \"divine chamber\") corresponding to the aludel subliming pot used in Arabic alchemy, and the \"yaofu\" 藥釜 \"pyx; bomb\" vessel composed of two roughly hemispherical crucible-like bowls with flanges placed mouth to mouth (Sivin 1980: 22).\n\nIn addition to these basic tools, the alchemical apparatus also includes both common utensils (like mortars and pestles) and various specialized laboratory instruments for steaming, condensation, sublimation, distillation, and extraction (Sivin 1980: 26-103).\n\n\n"}
