{"id": "56281614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56281614", "title": "2017 Macron e-mail leaks", "text": "2017 Macron e-mail leaks\n\nThe 2017 Macron e-mail leaks were leaks of more than 20,000 e-mails related to the campaign of Emmanuel Macron during the 2017 French presidential elections, two days before the final vote. The leaks garnered an abundance of media attention due to how quickly news of the leak spread throughout the Internet, aided in large part by bots and spammers and drew accusations that the government of Russia under Vladimir Putin was responsible. The e-mails were shared by WikiLeaks and several American alt-right activists through social media sites like Twitter, Facebook, and 4chan.\n\nOriginally posted on a filesharing site called PasteBin, the e-mails had little to no effect on the final vote as they were dumped just hours before a 44-hour media blackout that is legally required by French electoral law.\n\nThe campaign said the e-mails had been \"fraudulently obtained\" and that false documents were mingled with genuine ones in order \"to create confusion and misinformation.\" Numerama, an online publication focusing on digital life, described the leaked material as \"utterly mundane\", consisting of \"the contents of a hard drive and several emails of co-workers and En Marche political officials.\" United States Senator from Virginia, Mark Warner cited the e-mail leak as a reinforcement of the cause behind the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee's investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections. Nonetheless, the Russian government denied all allegations of foreign electoral intervention.\n\nAfter the first round of the 2017 French presidential election produced no majority winner, the top two candidates proceeded to a runoff election to be held on 7 May of that year. Emmanuel Macron of the En Marche! party and Marine Le Pen of the National Front both began campaigning across France on their competing points of view. The election was characterized by widespread dissatisfaction with the administration of President François Hollande and the French governmental establishment as a whole.\n\nThe election was widely regarded as a referendum between the internationalist centrism of Macron and the populist far-right ideology of Le Pen. After a slew of events considered to be detrimental to globalization and a triumph of nationalism and isolationism, such as the Brexit referendum, and the election of Donald Trump, many international observers viewed the French election as another possible trendsetting event for Western politics. Le Pen's anti-immigration, anti-NATO, and anti-European Union stances attracted her the widespread support of far-right politicians and activists as far as the United States, like Donald Trump, and raised questions about possible appeasement of Russia. Russian arms of state propaganda such as Russia Today and Sputnik News consistently portrayed Le Pen in a positive light, and her campaign had even secured millions of Euros from a Russian lender in 2014.\n\nIn the United States, Le Pen was praised by President Donald Trump on several occasions, and she saw widespread support and praise by large numbers of online conservative trolls and Internet alt-right activists on social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, and 4chan, who simultaneously attacked Macron.\nThese trolls used spamming of Internet memes and misinformation as tactics to assail Macron; accusing him of being a \"globalist puppet\" and a supporter of Islamic immigration. This was not a new strategy, it had been executed to much success during the 2016 United States presidential election. Legions of pro-Trump Internet users and bots had spammed social media and rapidly spread anti-Clinton news releases and leaks across the web as was the case with the Democratic National Committee leaks and the John Podesta e-mail leaks, allegedly with aid from the Kremlin. Prior to the election, American national security officials warned the French government of the high probability of Russian digital meddling in the election, according to the Director of the National Security Agency, Mike Rogers.\n\nOn Friday 5 May 2017, two days before the scheduled vote in the presidential election, the campaign of Emmanuel Macron claimed that it had been the target of a \"massive hack\". At the same time at least 9 gigabytes of data were dumped on an anonymous file sharing site called Pastebin using a profile called 'EMLEAKS'. The drop was made just hours before an election media blackout was due to take place in advance of Sunday's elections, as legally mandated under French electoral law which prevented Macron from issuing an effective response but also limited media coverage of the hack and subsequent leak. The e-mails, totaling 21,075, along with other data was quickly posted to the anonymous message board, 4chan, where it was shared by alt-right activists, notably Jack Posobiec, on Twitter.\n\nThe e-mail leak spread swiftly under the hashtag #MacronLeaks on Twitter and Facebook. Within three and a half hours of first being used, #MacronLeaks had reached 47,000 tweets. On Jack Posobiec's Twitter, the hashtag was retweeted 87 times within five minutes, likely pointing to the use of bots. WikiLeaks mentioned the leaks in subsequent tweets 15 times, contributing the most to the news' spread. Within a short period of time, #MacronLeaks was trending in France and was on a banner on the Drudge Report homepage. In another sign of bot use the ten most active accounts using the #MacronLeaks hashtag posted over 1,300 tweets in just over three hours. One particular account, posted 294 tweets in a span of two hours. Analysis shows that the hashtag was mentioned more times by American accounts than French ones, but posts concerning them were, by a slim margin, written more often in French than English.\n\nThe leaked e-mails were claimed to show evidence of criminal wrongdoing by Macron and his campaign including the committing of tax evasion and election fraud, though these claims have not been substantiated and are likely false. A less suggestive examination of the e-mails by Numerama, a French online publication focusing on technological news, described the leaked emails as \"utterly mundane\", consisting of \"the contents of a hard drive and several emails of co-workers and En Marche political officials.\" Leaked documents included \"memos, bills, loans for amounts that are hardly over-the-top, recommendations and other reservations, amidst, of course, exchanges that are strictly personal and private — personal notes on the rain and sunshine, a confirmation email for the publishing of a book, reservation of a table for friends, etc.\"\n\nIn response to the attack, Emmanuel Macron said it was \"democratic destabilisation, like that seen during the last presidential campaign in the United States\" and said the hackers had mixed falsified documents with genuine ones, \"in order to sow doubt and disinformation.\" Vice President of the National Front Florian Philippot and Le Pen adviser said in a tweet, \"Will #MacronLeaks teach us something that investigative journalism has deliberately killed?\" The French election commission warned media in the country that publishing the e-mails or discussing them so close to the election would be a violation of the law and issued a statement that in part read, \"On the eve of the most important election for our institutions, the commission calls on everyone present on internet sites and social networks, primarily the media, but also all citizens, to show responsibility and not to pass on this content, so as not to distort the sincerity of the ballot.\" The leak did not appear to have any impact on the French presidential election which continued as scheduled and ended with a Macron victory by a margin of 32%. Despite this, French security officials commenced an investigation into the hacking shortly after the election.\n\nIn the United States, U.S. Senator from Virginia and ranking member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Mark Warner said the hacking and subsequent leak only emboldened his committee's investigation, and former Secretary of State and Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said in a tweet, \"Victory for Macron, for France, the EU, & the world. Defeat to those interfering w/democracy. (But the media says I can't talk about that).\"\n\nAn assessment by Flashpoint, an American cybersecurity firm, stated that they determined with \"moderate confidence\" that the group behind the hacking and leak was APT28, better known as 'Fancy Bear', a hacking group with ties to Russian military intelligence. Metadata pulled from the dump revealed the name 'Georgy Petrovich Roshka', likely an alias, which has ties to a Moscow-based intelligence contractor. Many similarities, including the use of social media bots in an attempt to scrub metadata, also pointed to Fancy Bear. However, on 1 June 2017, Guillaume Poupard, the head of France's premier cybersecurity agency said in an interview with the Associated Press the hack, \"was so generic and simple that it could have been practically anyone\". On 9 May, two days after the election, Mike Rogers, head of the NSA, said in sworn testimony with the United States Senate he had been made aware of Russian attempts to hack French election infrastructure, though he did not mention anything related to the identities of those behind the Macron email hacking. This followed a French announcement that electronic voting for France's overseas citizens would be discontinued in light of cybersecurity threats.\n"}
{"id": "31719968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31719968", "title": "ADI 4277 and ADPF 132", "text": "ADI 4277 and ADPF 132\n\nADI 4277 and ADPF 132 (May 5, 2011), are landmark Brazil Supreme Court cases.\n\nAfter of the decision of the Supreme Court, the same 112 rights of different-sex marriages were given to same-sex stable relationships too, creating a de facto civil union system, including the most important:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27865767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27865767", "title": "Arabs for Israel", "text": "Arabs for Israel\n\nArabs for Israel () is an organization composed of ethnic Arabs who support Israel and Middle East peace. The group was founded in February 2004 by Nonie Darwish, an Egyptian-American Muslim-born Christian. The group believes that “We can support the State of Israel and the Jewish religion and still treasure our Arab and Islamic culture”.\n\nDarwish maintains there are Muslims in America who speak out against terrorism and are pro-Israel, who are shunned by the organized Muslim community and cannot speak in mosques.\n\nWhen asked why she started \"Arabs for Israel\", she said \"to support Israel doesn't mean being anti-Arab. I love my people, but for peace to happen, we need a big leap, a new attitude; forgiveness and compassion.\" Darwish further said that she is afraid Israel will give away too much territory, making the country too small to defend. She concluded that \"My Arab people are beautiful people, and I pray to God that they will find forgiveness in their hearts.\"\n\nThe positions of \"Arabs For Israel\" include the acceptance for the existence of the State of Israel, a legitimate state that is not a threat but an asset in the Middle East. The group further states that \"Every major World religion has a center of gravity. Islam has Mecca, and Judaism has Jerusalem.\" The group says it is not \"Anti-Islam, Anti-Arab, confrontational or hateful.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57409362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57409362", "title": "As Farpas", "text": "As Farpas\n\nAs Farpas (\"The Barbs\") was a monthly publication started by the authors and journalists Ramalho Ortigão and Eça de Queirós. It first appeared in 1871, when the authors were, respectively, 35 and 26, and was published in Portugal until the end of 1882. Subtitled \"The Country and Portuguese Society\", the monthly issues presented a caricature of the society of the time and are considered an important contribution to Portuguese literature and the launching of critical journalism in the country. \n\n\"As Farpas\" was initiated in the same year in which the so-called were held in Lisbon. At these conferences a group of young writers and intellectuals presented their suggestions to revolutionize Portuguese literature and cultural society of the time, based on the realist and naturalist philosophies of the French writer, Gustave Flaubert and others. It was the censorship imposed by the authorities on the conferences that is considered to have motivated, in large part, the authors to publish \"As Farpas\".\n\nThe magazine was published monthly, beginning in May 1871. At an early stage Eça left the publication to pursue a diplomatic career in Havana, leaving responsibility with Ramalho, who continued with it until 1882. Articles in \"As Farpas\" were initially highly critical and ironic. They satirized the partisan journalism of the press; the economic, cultural, social and moral aspects of the so-called Regeneration period in the country; religion and the Catholic faith; the segregation of the social role of women; and romantic literature. For Portugal, \"As Farpas\" represented a new and innovative concept of journalism, one of ideas and social and cultural criticism. They provided an excellent sociological observation of day-to-day life in Portugal. For example, observations were made of markets and prisons and in administration offices. The authors observed fishermen at work and at home, families in church, people at the theatre and journalists in the newsrooms. Articles considered adultery, clerical life, economic decay, and political and cultural degradation, themes that would later be developed in the novels of Eça de Queirós. \n\nHowever, Eça's opinion about this work was not very positive. He said that they were “a collection of aged pimps that are not worth the paper on which they are printed” and described them as just a “huge laugh”. After his departure, the magazine under Ramalho Ortigão took on more of a pedagogical and moralizing tone, lacking the biting caricature provided by Eça de Queirós. \n\nFrom 1887 to 1890 the articles by Ramalho were reprinted in eleven volumes. The texts written by Eça were assembled in two volumes in 1890 with the title \"Uma Campanha Alegre\" (\"A Cheerful Campaign\").\n\nOriginal copies of \"As Farpas\" can be downloaded from:\n"}
{"id": "36575241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36575241", "title": "Black Native Party", "text": "Black Native Party\n\nThe Black Native Party (, abbreviated PAN) was a political party in Uruguay seeking to defend the rights of the Afro-Uruguayan community. The founders of the party were Afro-Uruguayan intellectuals whom sought to develop the party as a platform to elect Afro-Uruguayans to Congress. The party was founded in 1936 and was close to the \"Nuestra Raza\" group. The foundation of PAN followed the establishment of two other Black political parties in Latin America, in Cuba (1908) and Brazil (1931).\n\nA first reference of the project to launch a Black political party can be found in the October 24, 1935, issue of \"Nuestra Raza\". The following issues of the journal carried more editorials and articles arguing for the foundation of the party. On May 9, 1936, a preliminary assembly of the party was held. Some 30 people participated in the event. Two preparatory bodies were named, a Reporting Committee and a Provisional Board. On May 23, 1936, the manifesto of the party (drafted by the Reporting Committee) was adopted at a party meeting. The manifesto of the party was formulated along Popular Front lines, calling for struggle against fascism and imperialism.\n\nSalvador Betervide was the founding chairman of the party. Other founders included Ventura Barrios and Elemo Cabral. After Betervide's death from tuberculosis in 1936 the chairmanship of the party was taken over by Mario Méndez. On January 5, 1937, the party was recognized by the Electoral Court. In March 1937 a new manifesto was issued, following similar lines as the original party manifesto.\n\nOn July 5, 1937, a local committee of the party was established in Rivera. On December 4, 1937, a General Assembly of the party was organized. On December 18, 1937, a local committee was set up in the town of Melo.\n\nThe party published the journal \"Pan\" ('Bread') as its organ. The first issue was published on April 15, 1937. Nine issues were published until December 1937. Sandalio del Puerto was the editor of \"Pan\", until being replaced by Carmelo Gentile in October 1937.\n\nOn March 5, 1938, the party convention was opened. The convention was a public event. The majority of the 22 participants came from Montevideo. The convention was chaired by Victoriano Rivero, Isabelino José Gares and Félix Tejera. At the meeting a draft candidate list for the upcoming elections was presented. On the second day of the convention (March 7), 16 people participated. The candidate list was approved with Mario Méndez as the top candidate. Other candidates were Carmelo Gentile, Pilar Barrios, Rufino Silva Gonzalez, Juan Carlos Martinez, Rolando R. Olivera, Victoriano Rivero, Cándido Guimaraes, Sandalio del Puerto and Roberto Sosa.\n\nThe party failed to win major support as the majority of Afro-Uruguayans preferred to vote for either of the two main parties. The party launched a list of ten candidates ahead of the 1938 general election. The election campaign, carried out in Montevideo, centered around racial discrimination in employment in the state administration. The campaign had meager results, though, receiving a mere 87 votes. Following this humiliating experience, the party never contested elections again.\n\nPAN suffered a split in 1941. A group of Executive Committee members met on August 13, 1941, and voted to demote Méndez from his post as party chairman. Effectively two groups emerged that claimed to be the legitimate PAN, the group led by Méndez and another led by Anibal Eduarte, Ignacio Suarez Peña (chairman) and Ismael Arribio. I. Bello served as general secretary of the Méndez faction. On August 15, 1941, Méndez reported to police that properties at the PAN office had been stolen by the Suarez Peña faction. The Suarez Peña group responded by appealing to the Electoral Court that they be recognized as the genuine PAN. The Suarez Peña faction held a party assembly on August 23, 1941. The declaration of the assembly was signed by 49 persons.\n\nIn January 1942 the Méndez faction adopted a party hymn, composed by Victor Irrazabal and Carlos Tarama.\n\nOn January 23, 1942, the Electoral Court declared that it would not take sides in the dispute in PAN, arguing that it was not possible to determine who was the legitimate claimant to the name PAN.\n\nMéndez died on June 5, 1942. Following his death the two factions were reunited in October 1942.\n\nThe party was dissolved on June 11, 1944. The few properties of the party were donated to \"Nuestra Raza\".\n\n \n"}
{"id": "45311226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45311226", "title": "Broadmoor Sirens", "text": "Broadmoor Sirens\n\nThe Broadmoor Sirens are a series of thirteen warning sirens based in towns and villages surrounding Broadmoor Hospital in Crowthorne, Berkshire, England. They were first installed in 1952 and are based on air raid sirens with the intention of warning residents living near the high-security psychiatric hospital of an escaped patient.\n\nThe Broadmoor Sirens were installed in 1952 in response to a patient escaping from Broadmoor and murdering a child in Farley Hill, Berkshire before being recaptured. They are similar to air-raid sirens but employ shutters to produce an alternating \"high - low\" warning tone. More sirens were added in the 1960s after discussions in the House of Commons raised the issue that the sirens' radius was insufficient for nearby towns such as Camberley and Wokingham. The thirteen sirens, labelled A–M to distinguish each unit, were created with the intention of warning residents in surrounding towns and villages to remain in their homes and keep their children supervised following the escape of a Broadmoor patient. The sirens are activated as a test at 10am every Monday to ensure they are working. The sirens are susceptible to electrical interference. In 2014, the Bracknell siren was activated accidentally during an electrical storm. The thirteen satellite sirens are due to be decommissioned during 2018, with one siren remaining in the hospital grounds.\n\nThe last time the Broadmoor Sirens were activated because of an escape was in 1991, although they were activated in 1993 because of an attack at the hospital. In 2014, there were plans to remove seven of the thirteen sirens. This was because Broadmoor had added a second security fence around the hospital and intended to upgrade the remainder of the sirens so they had a radius to improve on the two-mile radius of the 1952 sirens. Local residents objected to this on safety grounds due to there being sixteen primary schools within the radius of the sirens.\nIt was reported on June 2, 2016 that the hospital plans to have twelve (possibly all thirteen) sirens scrapped by 2018 in favor of escape alerts via the internet and Twitter. However, it is possible that Siren G, the siren nearest to the hospital, will remain in operation, though it will most likely be scrapped as well and replaced by a newer siren.\n"}
{"id": "351535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351535", "title": "Business oligarch", "text": "Business oligarch\n\nThe term business oligarch is almost a synonym of the term business magnate, borrowed by the English-speaking and western media from post-Soviet parlance to label those businessmen who quickly acquired huge wealth in post-Soviet states (mostly Russia and Ukraine) during the privatization in Russia and in other post-Soviet states in the 1990s. Post-Soviet oligarchs are magnates who controls sufficient resources to influence national politics Business group might be defined as an oligarch if it satisfies the following conditions:\n(1) owners are the largest private owners in the country \n(2) it possesses sufficient political power to promote its own interests\n(3) owners control multiple businesses, which intensively coordinate their activities.\nA typical example of a post-Soviet oligarch entity is the Privat Group - a large Ukraine-based transnational business conglomerate comprising dozens of industrial companies in several markets, controlled by only three stakeholders, and not through the stock exchange. For the history of business oligarchs in post-Soviet Union states see:\n\n\nMore generally, an oligarch is a \"member of an oligarchy; a person who is part of a small group holding power in a state\".\nAristotle gave the concept of oligarchy some negative connotations, but the term does not necessarily imply wealth.\nCompare \"plutocrat\".\n"}
{"id": "763076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763076", "title": "Calcium peroxide", "text": "Calcium peroxide\n\nCalcium peroxide or calcium dioxide is the inorganic compound with the formula CaO. It is the peroxide (O) salt of Ca. Commercial samples can be yellowish, but the pure compound is white. It is almost insoluble in water. \n\nAs a solid, it is relatively stable against decomposition. In contact with water however it hydrolyzes with release of oxygen. Upon treatment with acid, it forms hydrogen peroxide.\n\nCalcium peroxide is produced by combining calcium salts and hydrogen peroxide:\nThe octahydrate precipitates upon the reaction of calcium hydroxide with dilute hydrogen peroxide. Upon heating it dehydrates.\n\nIt is mainly used as an oxidant to enhance the extraction of precious metals from their ores. In its second main application, it is used as a food additive under the E number E930 it is used as flour bleaching agent and improving agent.\n\nIn agriculture it is used in the presowing treatments of rice seed. Also, calcium peroxide has found use in the aquaculture to oxygenate and disinfect water. In the ecological restoration industry it is used in the treatment of soils. Calcium peroxide is used in a similar manner to magnesium peroxide for environmental restoration programs. It is used to restore soil and groundwater contaminated with petroleum by the process of enhanced in-situ bioremediation.\n"}
{"id": "1847576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1847576", "title": "Castle Hill convict rebellion", "text": "Castle Hill convict rebellion\n\nThe Castle Hill rebellion of 1804 was a rebellion by convicts against colonial authority of the British colony of New South Wales in the Castle Hill area, in Sydney. The rebellion culminated in a battle fought between convicts and the colonial forces of Australia on 5 March 1804 at Rouse Hill, dubbed the Second Battle of Vinegar Hill after the first Battle of Vinegar Hill which had taken place in 1798 in Ireland. It was the first and only major convict uprising in Australian history suppressed under martial law.\n\nOn 4 March 1804, according to the official accounts 233 convicts led by Philip Cunningham (a veteran of the Irish Rebellion of 1798, as well as mutiny on the convict transport ship \"Anne\") escaped from a prison farm intent on \"capturing ships to sail to Ireland\". In response, martial law was quickly declared in the Colony of New South Wales. The mostly Irish rebels, having gathered reinforcements, were hunted by the colonial forces until they were sequestered on 5 March 1804 on a hillock nicknamed Vinegar Hill. Under a flag of truce, Cunningham was arrested and troops charged and the rebellion was crushed by a raid. Nine of the rebel leaders were executed and hundreds were punished before martial law was finally revoked a week after the battle.\n\nMany convicts in the Castle Hill area had been involved in the 1798 rebellions in Ireland and subsequently transported as exiles-without-trial to the Colony of New South Wales from late 1799. Phillip Cunningham, a veteran of the 1798 rebellion, and William Johnston, another Irish convict at Castle Hill, planned an uprising in which over 685 convicts at Castle Hill intended to meet with nearly 1,100 convicts from the Hawkesbury River area, rally at Constitution Hill, and march on Parramatta and then Sydney (Port Jackson) itself. According to Helen Mackay, their goal was to establish Irish rule in the colony and obtain ships for those that wanted to return to Ireland to help revive the failed Irish Rebellion of 1803.\n\nOn the evening of 4 March 1804, John Cavenah set fire to his hut at Castle Hill at 8:00 as the signal for the rebellion to begin. While this fire was not seen by the convicts at Green Hills, today's Windsor, on the Hawkesbury River, Cunningham activated the plan to gather weapons, ammunition, food and recruits from local supporters and the government farm at Castle Hill. With Cunningham leading, about 200 to 300 rebels broke into the Government Farm's buildings, taking firearms, ammunition, and other weapons. The constables and overseers were overpowered and the rebels then went from farm to farm on their way to Constitution Hill at Parramatta, seizing more weapons and supplies including rum and spirits, and recruiting others to join their cause. Their move had been informed from the intelligence gathered a year previous when 12 convicts de-camped from Castle Hill scouring the surrounding districts seeking out friends and sympathisers. On capture each and every one had the same story – they were heading to China by crossing over the Blue Mountains.\n\nWhen news of the uprising spread there was great panic amongst the colony of around 5,000 inhabitants with officials such as Samuel Marsden fleeing the area by boat, escorting Elizabeth Macarthur and her children, as an informer had advised that an attack would be made on the farm to draw troops away from Parramatta. In Sydney, following news from Parramatta, Governor Philip King set off alone for Parramatta to assume command, while Lieutenant Colonel William Paterson, the lieutenant governor, called out the guard. One hundred and forty men from HMS \"Calcutta\", as well as the Sydney Loyal Association militia, took over guard duties, and a New South Wales Corps contingent of 56 personnel including Lieutenant William Davies and Quartermaster Sergeant Thomas Laycock were dispatched to march through the night to bolster the garrison at Parramatta. Meanwhile, the provost marshal, Thomas Smyth, was sent ahead to contact Major George Johnston at Annandale. The troops from Sydney arrived at 1:30 am, and after a quick inspection an advanced guard was sent to the west of the town. Johnston arrived at Government House in Parramatta about four hours later not long after King had declared martial law under the Mansfield doctrine of posse comitatus.\n\nKing's proclamation of martial law applied to a wide area extending from Castle Hill to the Hawkesbury and Nepean areas, and empowered citizens in the area to detain those who lacked the appropriate passes. A curfew had also been enacted and an amnesty declared, which gave those who were involved 24 hours to surrender. On Johnston's arrival at Parramatta, King delivered his orders, in writing, to Johnston and then verbally to his small detachment. Johnston was to proceed to the western gate of the park around Government House, where the rebels had been seen a few hours earlier. If they were not there, he was ordered to exploit towards Toongabbie and Castle Hill to locate them and then await further orders. He was also empowered to fire upon anyone who did not obey his directions.\n\nShortly after 5:00 am, Johnston set out to locate the main rebel force. In addition to the troops he had brought with him, a number of civilians volunteered along with the 36 armed members of the Parramatta Loyal Association militia were also called out and took over defence of the town. Over 50 enrolled in a reserve militia combined with the NSW Corps to march out and confront the rebels. Johnston decided to advance in two columns, one which he led himself towards Toongabbie, and another under a subaltern, Davies, which was sent along the Castle Hill Road.\n\nMeanwhile, the rebels at Constitution Hill (Toongabbie) were having difficulties co-ordinating their force as several parties, including one of around 70 men under Samuel Humes, had lost their way in the night. Nevertheless, Cunningham and William Johnston commenced drilling their men, while a party unsuccessfully tried to enter Parramatta, where they were to set fire to a building to signal other conspirators to begin converging on Constitution Hill. Cunningham, being involved in two previous rebellions and the mutiny on the \"Anne\", knew from experience that the most important element of a rebellion or uprising would be secrecy. However, there were two defections: an Irish convict overseer named Sloane, and Lewis Bulger. The commandant at Parramatta, Captain Edward Abbott, who had warning of the rebellion as it was happening, commenced defensive measures and sent a message to the governor in Sydney.\n\nWith their courier, John Griffen, having had second thoughts about passing on the instructions Cunningham had given him to pass on to Brian Furey and subsequently being arrested, the call out messages to Windsor, Parramatta and Sydney failed, and the uprising was confined to west of the Parramatta area. After fruitlessly waiting for a signal of a successful internal takeover of Parramatta, and the non-appearance of reinforcements, Cunningham was forced to withdraw from Parramatta to Toongabbie to re-assess his strategy. Having already declared his hand, and deprived of both surprise and facing a superior and well disciplined force of Red Coats and enthusiastic militia, the uprising under Cunningham had no recourse but to withdraw west towards the Hawkesbury hoping to pick up more recruits and meeting his missing forces on the way to add to his forces.\n\nKnowing that going forward would only see more death and possible routing, they quickly moved westward hoping to join up with those now heading east from Green Hills (Windsor) to meet in the area of today's Rouse Hill and Kellyville, recruiting or impressing against their will a number of convicts along the way. (Those later giving evidence stated they were press-ganged into service in hope of lessening their punishment.) During this phase they obtained around a third of the entire colony's armaments. Their numbers had dwindled to several hundred, eventually reaching a total of 233. During the short period of the rebellion, Cunningham was elected \"King of the Australian Empire\", and his followers declared the area \"New Ireland\".\n\nMajor Johnston's contingent, wearied by their night march, needed time to close with the retreating rebels, who were reported to number around 400, so he rode after them with a small mounted party to implement delaying tactics, while the rest of his party completed the march to Toongabbie. Initially, it was believed that the rebels were at Toongabbie, but on arrival Johnston was informed that they had moved on to Constitution Hill. A small party under a corporal was sent to outflank this position, while an assault force of around a dozen men advanced on the summit, only to find it abandoned, with the rebels having moved off towards the Hawkesbury, about away. As the morning progressed, the heat of the day threatened to stymie the efforts of the marching troops who were poorly equipped for the pursuit. Nevertheless, about from Toongabbie, Johnston located the main rebel party of around 230 to 260 men near Rouse Hill, Johnston first sent his mounted trooper on to call the rebels to surrender and take the benefit of the Governor's amnesty for early surrender. This failing, he dispatched Roman Catholic priest Father James Dixon to appeal to them. Next he rode up himself, appealing to them, then got their agreement to hear Father Dixon again.\n\nMeanwhile, the pursuing forces had closed up and Major Johnston with Trooper Analzark came again to parley, calling down the leaders Cunningham and Johnston from the hill. Demanding their surrender, he received the response \"Death or Liberty\" from Cunningham, to which some were reported to have added \"and a ship to take us home\". With the NSW Corps and militia now formed up in firing lines behind him Major Johnston and Analzark produced pistols duping, while under truce, the two leaders of the uprising, and escorting them back to the Red Coat's lines. Quartermaster Sergeant Thomas Laycock, on being given the order to engage, directed over fifteen minutes of musket fire, then charged cutting Cunningham down with his cutlass. The now leaderless rebels first tried to fire back, but then broke and dispersed.\n\nDuring the battle (at least) fifteen rebels had fallen, according to the official reports, Major Johnston prevented further bloodshed and killings by threatening his troops with his pistol tempering their enthusiasm. Several convicts were captured and others killed in the pursuit which went up to Windsor all day until late in the night, with new arrivals of soldiers from Sydney joining in the search for rebels. On Wednesday, 7 March Governor King announced that those that surrendered before 10 March would receive leniency and following this large parties who lost their way in the night turned themselves in under the amnesty or made their way back to Castle Hill where a large party of about 70 under Samuel Humes were captured by a detachment of the Loyal Parramatta Association.\n\nAccording to the official records of the day, around 230 were eventually brought in over next few days and of the convicts directly engaged in the battle, 15 were killed, and 9 including the ringleaders Cunningham and Johnston were executed, with two, Johnson and Humes, subjected to gibbeting. Two men, John Burke and Bryan McCormack, were reprieved and detained at the Governor's pleasure, seven were whipped with 200 or 500 lashes then allotted to the Coal River chain gang, while 23 others, including Cavenah were sent to the Newcastle coal mines. Another 34 prisoners were placed in irons until they could be \"disposed of\". It is not known whether some, or all of them, were sent to the Coal River. Of the remaining rebels, some were put on good behaviour orders against a trip to Norfolk Island, while the majority were pardoned and allowed to return to their places of employment as having been coerced into the uprising.\n\nCunningham, badly wounded but still alive, was court martialled under the martial law and hanged at the Commissariat Store at Windsor, which he had bragged he would burn down. Initially, military officers were intent on hanging a token number of those captured having convened a military court at the Whipping Green but this was quickly stopped by Governor Gidley King fearful of the repercussions.\n\nMartial law was eventually lifted on 10 March 1804, but this did not end the insurgency. Irish plots continued to develop, keeping the Government and its informers vigilant, with military call out rehearsals continuing over the next three years. Governor King remained convinced that the real inspirers of revolt had kept out of sight, and had some suspects sent to Norfolk Island as a preventive measure.\n\nThe battle site is believed to be to the east of the site of the Rouse Hill Estate, and it is likely that Richard Rouse, a staunch establishment figure, was subsequently given his grant at this site specifically to prevent it becoming a significant site for Irish convicts. \"The Government Farm at Castle Hill\", a plot of land around , was added in March 1986 to the (now defunct) Register of the National Estate, as a special place of international and Australian significance. Residential development has significantly diminished the area of the prison town. Less than has remained undeveloped and conserved, as Castle Hill Heritage Park, established in 2004. There is a sculpture near the battle site at Castlebrook Cemetery commemorating the sacrifice. However, there is some debate as to where the battle actually occurred.\n\nThe bicentenary of the rebellion was commemorated in 2004, with a variety of events. The re-enactment in 2004 was significant in that exact numbers were recruited to form the rebels, the militia and the military. The event was held in close proximity to the original site on a similar landscape. The re-enactment was recorded by the ABC.\n\nIn addition, the battle has been depicted on screen. An Australian 1978 TV series, \"Against the Wind\", included a dramatization over two episodes of the build-up to and ultimate defeat of the rebellion. A monument commemorating the battle was erected at Castlebrook Memorial Park, on Windsor Road, Rouse Hill. It was dedicated on 5 March 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24658466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24658466", "title": "Distressed Children &amp; Infants International", "text": "Distressed Children &amp; Infants International\n\nDistressed Children & Infants International (DCI) is a U.S.-based non-profit organization established at Yale University in 2003 and currently headquartered in Cheshire, Connecticut.\n\nDCI currently supports initiatives for children in Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Nicaragua. It works to accomplish its mission through five core programs: its flagship \"Sun Child Sponsorship\" Program, Healthcare for the Underprivileged Program, Orphan Support Program, Blindness Prevention Program, and its \"Journey for Rights and Sight\" – an ongoing series of awareness-building events throughout the United States and beyond. DCI works to implement its mission with a number of partner organizations including Rights and Sight for Children (Bangladesh), Diabetic Association of Bangladesh (Bangladesh), Ispahani Eye Hospital (Bangladesh), Tauri Foundation (Bangladesh), Kalinga Eye Hospital and Research Centre (India), Nepal Netra Jyoti Sangh (Nepal), and New Haven/León Sister City Project (Nicaragua).\n\nDCI describes its mission using two phrases: \"Rights and Sight for Children\" - to protect child rights, stop child labor, and help families lift themselves out of poverty through education, healthcare, vision care, and income generating opportunities; and \"Children Helping Children\" - to connect American youth to less fortunate children in other countries, educating them about the challenges facing children worldwide and inspiring them to take leadership roles in humanitarian causes.\n\nDistressed Children & Infants International (DCI) was founded on May 23, 2003 at Yale University by current Executive Director Dr. Ehsan Hoque and President Dr. Brian DeBroff of the Yale School of Medicine. DCI was officially recognized as a non-profit charitable organization by the United States Government and the Office of the Connecticut Secretary of the State in 2005.\n\nDCI's Flagship \"Sun Child Sponsorship\" Program was inaugurated in Bangladesh in 2005 and operates in the regions of Patuakhali, Feni, Habiganj, Nilphamari and Dhaka. According to DCI, the program utilizes a comprehensive poverty alleviation model that focuses on individual children while bringing lasting change on a community-wide scale. The program's primary objective is to provide severely underprivileged children with the resources they need to stay in school instead of having to enter the labor force, and thereafter keeping them on track to become independent and productive citizens through educational and training opportunities. In addition, the program provides health care as well as family and community support in the form of small business development and adult education.\n\nDCI's Health for the Underprivileged Program has operated in Dhaka, Bangladesh since 2008. Through a free clinic located within Kallayanpur slum, DCI provides free preventive and curative treatment, including maternal health care, to a community of approximately 9000 slum residents. The clinic operates six days per week and provides free treatment and medicine. Additionally, DCI employs social workers who visit homes to identify health needs and connect patients, especially women and children, with appropriate treatment. The workers educate women on how to better take care of their health care needs and provides information about hospital delivery of newborns. The clinic also runs awareness classes for adolescent girls with the goal of preventing child marriage and teaching female health and hygiene skills.\n\nDCI's Blindness Prevention Program was launched in 2007, with the objective of preventing and treating vision loss among underprivileged children and their families. Through this program, DCI conducts free eye screening camps and awareness campaigns for the visually disabled in all of its project locations in Bangladesh, as well as providing eyeglasses to correct refractive errors and arranging free cataract surgeries for children and adults. Similar efforts are also supported with partner organizations in India and Nepal.\n\nDCI's Orphan Support Program was established in 2010 to provide comprehensive support to orphaned children to give them the opportunity to enjoy a normal childhood and grow into well-rounded, independent and productive adult citizens. The program delivers support through DCI's own orphanage facility in Dhaka, Bangladesh, as well as supplemental support to local government-run orphanages.\n\nDCI regularly holds events throughout the United States to raise awareness about issues affecting children such as child poverty, child labor, and preventable childhood blindness.\n\nIn 2006, DCI hosted its first \"Conference on Child Rights & Sight\" at Yale University: an international conference that gathers speakers and leaders from around the world to address issues of child rights - in particular child labor - and diseases that affect vision, and discuss creative solutions. As of 2016, DCI has held five international conferences at Yale University: in 2006, 2009, 2011, and 2013, and 2015. The most recent 5th International Conference on Child Rights & Sight took place at Yale University on Saturday, October 24, 2015.\n\nDCI's Patrons and Goodwill Ambassadors include Bangladeshi actress Babita Akhtar and Bangladeshi singer Sabina Yasmin.\n\nAccording to DCI, 91% of its funds go to program services (childcare, orphan support, blindness prevention, etc.), 6% goes to fundraising, and 3% goes to management and administration. DCI states that 100 percent of all proceeds from program contributions are used to cover the costs of DCI programs and services, with no portion being used to cover administrative or fundraising costs.\n\nDCI claims to follow rigorous standards of accountability and transparency to maximize the benefit to underprivileged communities and provide donors with full confidence in the positive impact of their charitable giving. All tax returns of the organization are published on DCI's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "56154104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56154104", "title": "Enemy of the People (book)", "text": "Enemy of the People (book)\n\nEnemy of the People: How Jacob Zuma stole South Africa and how the people fought back (2017) is a book by Adriaan Basson and Pieter du Toit, political journalists from South Africa about the creation by President Jacob Zuma of a patronage network embedded in the South African government; the process of state capture that took place under Zuma's leadership; those that supported Zuma and those that resisted. The book's publisher Jonathan Ball Publishers describes it as the \"first definitive account of Zuma’s catastrophic misrule.\" The book covers scandals such as the attempt by the Gupta family, on behalf of Jet Airways, to force the state owned carrier South African Airways to relinquish its air-rout between Johannesburg and Mumbai through the appointment of compliant government ministers. \n"}
{"id": "59024614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59024614", "title": "Fabiano Contarato", "text": "Fabiano Contarato\n\nFabiano Contarato (born in Nova Venécia on 20 June 1966) is a Law Professor, police chief, and a politician from Brazil affiliated to the Rede Sustentabilidade (REDE) party. He was the most voted Senate candidate in Espírito Santo state during the 2018 Brazilian general election, with over one million votes — the first time he ran for an electoral post. Contarato is the first out member of the LGBT community to be elected for the Brazilian Senate. His win caused a seat loss for Magno Malta, an Evangelical Pastor and ally of far-right Brazilian President elect Jair Bolsonaro.\n"}
{"id": "2227387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2227387", "title": "Folkspartei", "text": "Folkspartei\n\nThe Folkspartei (, \"yidishe folkspartei\", 'Jewish People's Party, folkist party) was founded after the 1905 pogroms in the Russian Empire by Simon Dubnow and Israel Efrojkin. The party took part in several elections in Poland and Lithuania in the 1920s and 1930s and did not survive the Shoah.\n\nAccording to the historian Simon Dubnow (1860-1941), Jews are a nation on the spiritual and intellectual level and should strive towards their national and cultural autonomy in the diaspora (\"galuth\") in some way a secularized and modernized version of the Council of Four Lands under the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. He said, \"How then should Jewish autonomy assert itself? It must, of course, be in full agreement with the character of the Jewish national idea. Jewry, as a spiritual or cultural nation, cannot in the Diaspora seek territorial or political separatism, but only a social or a national-cultural autonomy.\"\n\nClose to the Bund for the emphasis on Yiddish and its culture, it differed from that party by its middle class, craftsmen and intellectual base, but also because of its ideological options. According to Dubnov, assimilation was not a natural phenomenon and the Jewish political struggle should be centered on a Jewish autonomy based upon community, language and education, and not upon class struggle as advocated by Bundist theorists. It was a liberal party in economic matters, committed to political democracy and secularism.\n\nThe Folkist Ya'akov Ze'ev Latsky (\"Bertoldi\") (former member of the Zionist Socialist Workers Party) was appointed Minister for Jewish Affairs in the Ukrainian People's Republic in April 1918, replacing Fareynikte Moishe Zilberfarb. He was succeeded by Abraham Revutzky of Poale Zion.\n\nA local organization and a newspaper, \"Warszawer Togblat\" (The Warsaw Daily), was set up in Warsaw in 1916 in order to contend for the municipal elections (under German occupation), where they gained 4 seats, including Noach Pryłucki, one of the founders of the party's newspaper, later renamed as 'Der Moment'. He was also elected at the 1919 Constituent Sejm, but had to resign for a citizenship matter. In the 1922-27 Polish Parliament (Sejm) Noach Pryłucki was the only Folkist MP out of 35 Jewish MPs (25 Zionists, but no Bundist). He was elected on the list of the Bloc of National Minorities. The party split in 1927 between the Warsaw branch, led by Pryłucki, and the Vilnius (then a part of Poland) branch, led by Dr. Zemach Shabad, less hostile to Zionism than the Warsaw branch but more Yiddish-centered. After the split the party seems to have declined, with an attempt to revitalize it in Warsaw in 1935. At the 1936 Jewish community elections in Warsaw, the Folkspartei only got 1 seat out of 50, while the Bund got 15.\n\nLawyer and banker Shmuel Landau (also spelled \"Landoi\"), later municipal councillor in Ponevezh (Lit. Panevėžys), was elected (or rather succeeded elected MP Naphtali Friedman, a nonpartisan lawyer, after his death) for the Folkspartei on a common Jewish electoral list (with the Zionist parties and Agudat Israel) at the first elected Lithuanian Parliament (Seimas) in 1920 when there were 6 Jewish parties deputies out of 112.\n\nVilnius (Yiddish: Vilna), where Jews formed the majority of the population, was incorporated into Poland in 1922-1939, and also sent at least one Folkist to the Polish Parliament (Sejm), Zemach Shabad (Szabad)(1864-1935).\n\nThe next elections (1922) were rigged against the Polish and Jewish minorities, but the Seimas was dissolved and another Folkist, the lawyer Oizer Finkelstein (also spelled \"Euser\"), was elected in 1923 on a national minorities bloc. In 1926 a coup d'état took place in Lithuania and the parliament was dissolved in 1927.\n\nThe Folkist newspaper in interwar Lithuania was the 'Folksblat', published in Kaunas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6166964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6166964", "title": "Frank Lawrence Owsley", "text": "Frank Lawrence Owsley\n\nFrank Lawrence Owsley (January 20, 1890 – October 21, 1956) was an American historian who taught at Vanderbilt University for most of his career, where he specialized in southern history and was a member of the Southern Agrarians. He is notorious for his racist essay \"The Irrepressible Conflict\" (1930) in which he lamented the economic loss of slavery for the defeated Confederacy and wrote of the \"half savage blacks\" that had been freed. He is also known for his study of Confederate diplomacy based on the false myth of \"King Cotton\" and especially his quantitative social history of the middling folk—the \"plain people\" of the Old South.\n\nBorn in rural Alabama, he attended Auburn University for his undergraduate degree. He earned his Ph.D. in history at the University of Chicago in 1924 under the tutelage of William E. Dodd. He taught at Vanderbilt University. Owsley specialized in Southern history, especially the antebellum and Civil War eras.\n\nOwsley argued in his dissertation \"State Rights and the Confederacy\" (1925) that the Confederacy \"died of states' rights\". Owsley held that during the Civil War, key Southern governors resisted the appeals of the Confederate government for soldiers. His book \" King Cotton Diplomacy: Foreign Relations of the Confederate States of America \"(1931) is the basic study of Confederate diplomacy. It emphasizes that Southerners before the war had a profound belief in the power of King Cotton to rule the industrial economy, so that Britain and France would enter the war on behalf of the Confederacy to get that cotton. The belief was not based on knowledge of Europe and failed in practice.\n\nAs an active member of the Southern Agrarians group based in Nashville, Owsley contributed \"The Irrepressible Conflict\" to the manifesto \"I'll Take My Stand\" (1930). In this work, he described \"half-savage blacks . . . some of whom could still remember the taste of human flesh and the bulk of them hardly three generations removed from cannibalism.\" He lashed out at the North for what he alleged were attempts to dominate the South spiritually and economically. In \"Scottsboro, the Third Crusade: The Sequel to Abolition and Reconstruction\" (the \"American Review\" [1933]: 257–85), he criticized northern race reformers as the \"grandchildren of abolitionists and reconstructionists.\" He announced that the South was white man's country and that blacks must accommodate that reality. Serving as president of the Southern Historical Association in 1940, Owsley castigated the North for assuming its people and thinking represented the entire nation, and for violating what he called \"the comity of section\".\n\nOwsley agreed with the other Southern Agrarians of the 1930s in espousing values which they saw being overtaken by the industrialism and modernism that had begun to influence the South. According to Owsley, the position of the South vis-à-vis the North was created not by slavery, the dominance of cotton and agriculture, or states' rights, but by the two regions' misunderstanding of each other.\n\nAfter 1940, Owsley and his wife Harriet pioneered what came to be called the \"new social history\". They studied the historical demography of the South and social mobility and produced a history called \"Plain Folk of the Old South\". Historian Vernon Burton described it as \"one of the most influential works on Southern history ever written.\" The Owsleys culled data from federal census returns, tax and trial records, and local government documents and wills. In \"Plain Folk\", they argued that Southern society was not dominated by planter aristocrats, but that yeoman farmers played a significant role. The religion, language, and culture of white common people created a democratic \"plain folk\" society, Owsley argued.\n\nOwsley's work \"Plain Folk of the Old South\" (1949) was an answer to liberal historians' emphasis on the dominance of the planter class' social and political control of the South. He regarded the future of American civilization as dependent on the survival of southern regionalism and agrarian values. Owsley's \"Plain Folk\" instead depicts a complex social structure in the South, one featuring a large middle class of yeoman farmers and not just wealthy planters and poor whites. He argues that the South was devoted to republican values generally and was not locked into race and slavery. Owsley believed the Civil War's causes were rooted in both North and South.\n\nIn rejecting the Lost Cause of the Confederacy and the New South's romantic legends, Owsley sought to uncover a \"real\" South, what he called the plain folk. He characterized the postwar South as made up of a broad class of yeoman farmers, between poor blacks, many of whom were sharecroppers in a kind of debt bondage, and poor whites at one end, and large plantation owners at the opposite end of the economic spectrum. Owsley asserted that the real South was liberal, American, and Jeffersonian, not radical or reactionary.\n\nCritics suggested Owsley was a reactionary defender of the Confederacy. They said he was attempting to rewrite the past to preserve white Southern culture. They said he overemphasized the size of the Southern landholding middle class, while excluding the large class of poor white southerners who owned neither land nor slaves. Further, they suggested Owsley's theory assumed too much commonality in shared economic interests united Southern farmers. Critics believed that he did not fully assess the vast difference between the planters' commercial agriculture and the yeoman's subsistence farming.\n\nBiographer Priscilla Roberts argues that his work on the \"Plain Folk of the Old South\":\n\nAt Vanderbilt University (1920–49), Owsley directed nearly 40 Ph.D. dissertations and was a popular teacher of undergraduates. In 1949 he went to the University of Alabama to build its history program. Reacting to attacks by critics of Southern segregation, Owsley tried to refute what he saw as their misunderstanding of the true South. He regarded the future of American civilization as dependent on the survival of southern regionalism.\n\nOwsley served as the chairman of the history department of the University of Alabama, 1951-54. Afterward, he was a guest lecturer at several universities. In 1956, Owsley embarked on a journey to Europe in the Summer of 1956, on a Fulbright Scholarship, to research in British and French archives, a task which he did not live to complete.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9685374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9685374", "title": "General Synod of the Anglican Church of Canada", "text": "General Synod of the Anglican Church of Canada\n\nThe General Synod of the Anglican Church of Canada is the chief governing and legislative body of the Anglican Church of Canada (ACC), the sole Canadian representative of the Anglican Communion. The first General Synod session was held in Toronto in 1893, with the proviso that the parameters of its authority would not undermine the local independence of dioceses.\n\nExcept in special instances when it may be called into session by the Primate of the Anglican Church of Canada or the Council of General Synod, the General Synod meets triennially at locations across Canada. The Synod next meets in 2016 in Toronto, Ontario. Other recent locales for General Synod have been:\n\n\nThe General Synod is composed of three Orders: Bishops, Clergy, and Laity. All bishops and archbishops of the ACC are members of General Synod; clergy and lay delegates are elected from each of the church's thirty dioceses, as well as the Canadian Forces and the religious orders. Unlike the Church of England or the Episcopal Church in the United States of America, the Orders are not divided into Houses which meet separately according to different rules of order. Nonetheless, voting may be done by Orders with respect to certain issues, or on demand according to the rules of order, under which conditions a given Resolution would need to be approved in all three.\n\nThe General Synod is responsible for articulating the doctrine, discipline, and worship of the Anglican Church of Canada. During its regular meetings, which generally span a week to nine days, members exchange information, set policy for the church, pass resolutions, and enact and amend canon law. Presently, there are twenty-two numbered canons, dealing with issues as prosaic as the name of the church, to ones touching on doctrine, such as matrimony and Holy Orders, to judicial disciplinary proceedings.\n\nGeneral Synod elects three of the nine officers who maintain certain executive responsibilities at and between Synods. Of those, one - the Primate - holds office until he or she resigns, is removed, retires, or dies. The other officers, elected at each General Synod, are the Prolocutor and the Deputy Prolocutor.\n\nThe Prolocutor acts as the chief deputy to the Primate, and the second executive officer of General Synod. As such, he chairs sessions of General Synod and meetings of the Council of General Synod in the absence of the Primate. The current Prolocutor is Cynthia Haines Turner; the Deputy Prolocutor is Lynne McNaughton.\n\nBetween sessions of General Synod, the Council of General Synod (COGS) administers the affairs of the ACC. COGS is composed of the Primate, the Prolocutor, the Deputy Prolocutor, the Chancellor, and representatives from the three Orders from each of the four ecclesiastical provinces, chosen by the respective delegates at General Synod, the numbers of which vary according to a complicated electoral formula. COGS appoints four of the nine officers of General Synod:\nIt also elects two Officers-at-large (one Clergy, one Laity).\n\nGeneral Synod has six standing committees, consisting of members both elected at General Synod and appointed by the Primate:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17528027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17528027", "title": "Glossary of backup terms", "text": "Glossary of backup terms\n\nThe subject of computer backups is rife with jargon and highly specialized terminology. This page is a glossary of backup terms that aims to clarify the meaning of such jargon and terminology.\n\nbackup policy\nbackup rotation scheme\nbackup site\nbackup software\nbackup window\ncopy backup\ncumulative incremental backup\ndaily backup\ndata salvaging/recovery\ndifferential backup\ndisaster recovery\ndisk cloning\ndisk image\nFlashBackup\nfull backup\nhot backup\nincremental backup\nmedia spanning\nmultiplexing\nmultistreaming\nnormal backup\nnear store\nopen file backup\nremote store\nrestore time\nretention time\nsite-to-site backup\nsynthetic backup\ntape library\ntrue image restore\ntrusted paper key\nvirtual Tape Library (VTL)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3382278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3382278", "title": "IP Justice", "text": "IP Justice\n\nIP Justice is an international civil liberties organization that promotes balanced intellectual property laws and freedom of expression in a digital world. \n\nIP Justice was founded in 2002 by cyber-rights attorney Robin Gross. IP Justice has an international board of directors, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit charity and is based in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury neighborhood.\n\nIP Justice has launched campaigns at the World Intellectual Property Organization, on the proposed Free Trade Area of the America's Treaty, the European Union directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and has been active in Internet governance discussions, including at the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) and the Internet Governance Forum (IGF). IP Justice is a founding member of several IGF Dynamic Coalitions, including coalitions on Free Expression, Access to Knowledge, an Internet Bill of Rights, Open Standards, and Privacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1191702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191702", "title": "Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance", "text": "Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance\n\nThe Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (commonly known as the Rio Treaty, the Rio Pact, or by the Spanish-language acronym TIAR from Tratado Interamericano de Asistencia Recíproca) was an agreement signed in 1947 in Rio de Janeiro among many countries of the Americas. The central principle contained in its articles is that an attack against one is to be considered an attack against them all; this was known as the \"hemispheric defense\" doctrine. The treaty was initially created in 1947 and came into force in 1948, in accordance with Article 22 of the treaty. The Bahamas was the most recent country to sign and ratify it in 1982. Several countries have however breached the treaty in multiple ocations.\n\nThe United States maintained a hemispheric defense policy relative to European influence under the Monroe Doctrine since 1823, which became increasingly interventionist with the Roosevelt Corollary in 1904. During the 1930s the US had been alarmed by Axis overtures toward military cooperation with Latin American governments; apparent strategic threats against the Panama Canal were of particular concern. These were discussed in a series of meetings of the International Conference of American States and the 1936 Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace. During the war Washington had been able to secure Allied support from all individual governments except Uruguay, which remained neutral, and Argentina, whose government was not recognized by the Allied powers. Some countries had signed the Declaration by United Nations in early 1942 and more had signed by the end of 1945. At the Inter-American Conference on the Problems of War and Peace, in Mexico City during February and March 1945, discussions of the post-war world order were held and produced the Act of Chapultepec.\n\nIn light of the developing Cold War and following the statement of the Truman Doctrine, the US wished to make those new anti-communist commitments permanent. The Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance was the first of many so-called 'mutual security agreements', and the formalization of the Act of Chapultepec. The treaty was adopted by the original signatories on 2 September 1947 in Rio de Janeiro (hence the colloquial name \"Rio Treaty\"). It came into force on 3 December 1948 and was registered with the United Nations on 20 December 1948.\n\nThe treaty was invoked numerous times during the 1950s and 1960s, in particular supporting the United States' naval blockade unanimously during the Cuban Missile Crisis. With the exceptions of Trinidad and Tobago (1967) and the Bahamas (1982), no countries that became independent after 1947 have joined the treaty; Canada is yet to become a member, though it already has separate defense commitments with the US. During the Falklands War (\"Malvinas\" in Spanish), the United States, despite having signed the Rio Treaty before the NATO alliance, arguing that Argentina was the aggressor, favored the United Kingdom, as did Chile and Colombia. This was seen by most Latin American countries as the final failure of the treaty. In 2001, the United States invoked the Rio Treaty after the September 11 attacks. In September 2002, citing the Falklands example and anticipating the Iraq War, Mexico formally withdrew from the treaty; after the requisite two years, Mexico ceased to be a signatory in September 2004.\n\nOn 2008, the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) created a new regional security council to take care of their own defence issues.\n\nOn 5 June 2012, ALBA countries Bolivia, Ecuador, Nicaragua and Venezuela, under the leadership of leftist governments, initiated the retirement from the TIAR, a decision which the Obama Administration deplored as \"unfortunate\" but respected. The treaty has been denounced by Nicaragua on 20 September 2012, Bolivia on 17 October 2012, Venezuela on 14 May 2013, and Ecuador on 19 February 2014.\n\nCurrent members:\nFormer members:\n"}
{"id": "221863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221863", "title": "Inter-Parliamentary Union", "text": "Inter-Parliamentary Union\n\nThe Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU; ) is a global inter-parliamentary institution established in 1889 by Frédéric Passy (France) and William Randal Cremer (United Kingdom). It was the first permanent forum for political multilateral negotiations. Initially, the organization was for individual parliamentarians, but has since transformed into an international organization of the parliaments of sovereign states. The national parliaments of 178 countries (the last three member countries are Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Vanuatu; Memberships were given during its 137th conference) are members of the IPU, and 12 regional parliamentary assemblies are associate members. The IPU has permanent observer status at the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nEight leading personalities of the IPU have received Nobel Peace Prizes:\n\n\nThe organisation's initial objective was the arbitration of conflicts. The IPU played an important part in setting up the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Over time, its mission has evolved towards the promotion of democracy and inter-parliamentary dialogue. The IPU has worked for establishment of institutions at the inter-governmental level, including the United Nations, an organization with which it cooperates and with which it has permanent observer status.\nNumerous bodies have expressed interest in the possibility of transforming the IPU into a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, among them the Committee for a Democratic UN, the German Bundestag and the Socialist International. The Liberal International also considers this as an option.\n\nThe headquarters of the union have been moved several times since its inception.\nLocations:\n\n\nIt is the duty of the Members of the IPU to submit the resolutions of the IPU within their respective Parliament, in the most appropriate form; to communicate them to the Government; to stimulate their implementation and to inform the IPU Secretariat, as often and fully as possible, particularly in its annual reports, as to the steps taken and the results obtained.\n\nThe participating parliamentary assemblies other than national parliaments are the following:\n\nThe organs of the Inter-Parliamentary Union are:\n\n\nThe Association of Secretaries General of Parliaments is a consultative body of the Inter-Parliamentary Union.\n\n\nThe IPU Assembly (formerly known as the Inter-Parliamentary Conference) is the principal statutory body that expresses the views of the Inter-Parliamentary Union on political issues.\n\nAny proposal to amend the Statutes shall be submitted in writing to the Secretariat of the Union at least three months before the meeting of the Assembly. The Secretariat will immediately communicate all such proposals to the Members of the Union. The consideration of such proposed amendments shall be automatically placed on the agenda of the Assembly.\n\nAny sub-amendments shall be submitted in writing to the Secretariat of the Union at least six weeks before the meeting of the Assembly. The Secretariat will immediately communicate all such sub-amendments to the Members of the Union.\n\nAfter hearing the opinion of the Governing Council, expressed through a simple majority vote, the Assembly shall decide on such proposals by a two-thirds majority vote.\n\nThe IPU marked the 50th anniversary of the United Nations, in 1995, by holding a special session in the General Assembly Hall before the start of the session, where they planned for closer cooperation with the United Nations. The General Assembly Resolution passed during that session requested the Secretary-General to put this into action. An agreement was signed between the IPU and the Secretary-General on 24 July 1996 and subsequently ratified by a General Assembly Resolution, where the United Nations recognizes IPU as the world organization of parliaments. Pursuant to this resolution, the Secretary-General submitted a report which was noted with appreciation by the General Assembly, who requested further strengthening of cooperation and another report. This report detailed the measures that had been taken, including opening a liaison office in New York, and cooperation on issues such land-mines and the promotion of representative democracy. Following an entire morning of debate the General Assembly passed a resolution which simply stated that it \"looks forward to continued close cooperation\".\n\nThe following year (1999) the Secretary-General reported on an increased number of areas of cooperation, the issue was debated for an entire afternoon (interrupted by a minute of silence held for tribute to Vazgen Sargsyan, the Prime Minister of Armenia who had just at that time been killed by gunmen), and passed a resolution requesting the IPU be allowed to address the Millennium General Assembly directly.\n\nFollowing another report, and another half-day debate, the General Assembly welcomed the IPU declaration entitled \"The Parliamentary vision for international cooperation at the dawn of the third millennium\" and called for the Secretary-General to explore new and further ways in which the relationship could be strengthened.\n\nOn 19 November 2002 the IPU was granted observer status to the General Assembly.\n\nIn the Resolution \"59/19, Cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union\", the UN General Assembly takes note of the recommendations in regard to engaging parliamentarians more systematically in the work of\nthe United Nations.\n\nThe final declaration of the Second World Conference of Speakers of Parliament, hosted at United Nations headquarters, took place in September 2005, was entitled \"Bridging the democracy gap in international relations: A stronger role for parliament\".\n\nIn the Resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly, \"61/6, Cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union\", on 27 November 2006, it calls for \"the further development of the annual parliamentary hearing at the United Nations and other specialized parliamentary meetings in the context of major United Nations meetings as joint United Nations-Inter-Parliamentary Union events\".\n\nEvery year during the fall session of the General Assembly the IPU organises a Parliamentary Hearing. A resolution on cooperation between the United Nations and the IPU allowed for circulation of official IPU documents in the General Assembly.\n\nUN and the IPU cooperate closely in various fields, in particular peace and security, economic and social development, international law, human rights, and democracy and gender issues, but IPU has not obtained the status of UN General Assembly subsidiary organ.\n\nThe fourth world conference on UN 70th anniversary marked by Ban Ki-Moon as \"UN70\" was organised in September 2015 where Speakers of all IPU(Inter-Parliamentary Union) member parliaments and of non-member parliaments were invited from across the world. The theme was on peace, democracy, and development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43966409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43966409", "title": "Intersindical Nacional dos Traballadores Galegos", "text": "Intersindical Nacional dos Traballadores Galegos\n\nThe National Inter-Union of the Galician Workers (, INTG) was a Galician union with an anticapiltalist, leftist and Galician nationalist ideology, direct heir of the Intersindical Nacional Galega (ING), and precursor of Confederación Intersindical Galega (CIG).\n\nThe INTG was founded after the 1980 union elections, in which the two galician nationalist unions ran together; the Intersindical Nacional Galega (ING) and the Central de Traballadores Galegos (CTG). Between both, they got 1679 delegates (17.5%), which was more than the 15% of the union representation required by the Spanish law to become a \"more representative union\" - which in practice, allows the presence of the union in the negotiations of the collective agreements. The strategic success represented by the unity of the ING and the CTG favored the consolidation of the unification of both unions into a single combative, leftist and Galician nationalist union, which occurred definitely in 1981 when both unions united and formed the INTG.\n\nIn January 1982, the INTG celebrated its First Congress, where Lois Ríos was elected as general secretary. That same year, the Confederación Sindical Galega, a split of the Spanish Unión Sindical Obrera (USO) and linked with the Galician Socialist Party. In that year's election, the INTG got 1649 delegates (18.5%).\n\nIn 1983, Xan Carballo, one of the main figures of the Communist Party of National Liberation (PCLN), was elected as the new general secretary of the INTG.\n\nAfter the so-called Pactos de la Castellana, the central government wanted to reconvert the public shipbuilding companies, the INTG, jointly with the Spanish trade unions CCOO and UGT called a strike in the comarca of Vigo, one of the most affected cities by the new state policy., on April 15, 1983. The tension continued to grow in the following months, and the INTG, called for a general strike on February 14, 1984: the first general strike since the Spanish Civil War, which was supported Galician Nationalist Bloc (BNG), Galiza Ceibe-OLN, the PSG-EG, the MCG and the Galician Revolutionary Students. CCOO and UGT also called to strike, but only in the cities of Vigo and Ferrol, where the main Galician shipyards were located.\n\nThe success of the strike of February 14 made CCOO join INTG in to the call for another general strike, to be celebrated on July 12. The UGT did not called to strike, due to its closed relationship with the PSOE, which at the time ruled on Spain. Further, the UGT accused CCOO and the INTG of trying to create a climate of violence and unrest in Galicia, and compared the situation in Galicia to that in the Basque Country. The strike was considered a great success by the INTG and the rest of the galician nationalist organizations, which facilitated a third call to a general strike for November 29 of that same year (1984), then against the \"New social pact\" (AES) signed between UGT and the Spanish government, which advanced in line of the dismantling of the shipbuilding industry in the Ria de Vigo area. Again, CCOO joined the call of the INTG and the strike was a new success, mobilizing a large number of Galician comarcas and especially in Vigo, where there were more than 100 000 protesters. The three general strikes generated a considerable increase in support for nationalist unionism through the figure of INTG.\n\nDespite the great success of the general strikes led by the INTG, that same year of 1984 a critical internal current with the union leadership and its general secretary, Xan Carballo, emerged. This current, called Converxencia Sindical Nacionalista (CSN), was linked with the PSG-EG, founded that year and directed by Camilo Nogueira. The CSN decided to abandon the INTG in 1985, forming the Confederación Xeral de Traballadores Galegos-Intersindical Nacional (CXTG), which celebrated in October of that year its first Congress. In it, Fernando Acuña was elected secretary general of the new union. In the union elections of 1986, the CXTG won 1087 delegates and the INTG 1067 delegates.\n\nOn the other hand, the relationship with CXTG also produced a fracture inside the INTG, that explained the four different candidates to the internal elections in the Third Congress, held in 1987. In it, the list close to the BNG reached 6 representatives, the list close to the FPG reached 3 representatives and the candidacy close to the gained APU 1 representative. Manuel Mera was elected secretary general.\n\nOn April 2, 1990, the INTG and CXTG made an unified list to the union elections, known as the Converxencia Intersindical Galega.\n\nAfter the unified candidacy in 1990, there was an organic unification in 1993, giving birth to the Confederación Intersindical Galega. Fernando Acuña, who came from the CXTG, and that was linked to the Galician Unity party, was appointed as the general secretary in the first two conferences of the union.\n\n"}
{"id": "1171476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1171476", "title": "Itavia Flight 870", "text": "Itavia Flight 870\n\nOn 27 June 1980, Itavia Flight 870 (IH 870, AJ 421), a McDonnell Douglas DC-9 passenger jet en route from Bologna to Palermo, Italy, crashed into the Tyrrhenian Sea between the islands of Ponza and Ustica, killing all 81 people on board. Known in Italy as the Ustica massacre (\"strage di Ustica\"), the disaster led to numerous investigations, legal actions and accusations, and continues to be a source of controversy, including claims of conspiracy by the Italian government and others. Former Italian President Francesco Cossiga attributed the crash to a missile fired from a French Navy aircraft, despite contrary evidence presented in a 1994 report. On 23 January 2013, Italy's top criminal court ruled that there was \"abundantly\" clear evidence that the flight was brought down by a missile.\n\nThe aircraft flown as Aerolinee Itavia Flight 870, a McDonnell Douglas DC-9-15, was manufactured in 1966 and acquired by the airline on 27 February 1972 with the serial number CN45724/22 and registration I-TIGI (formerly N902H, operated by Hawaiian Airlines).\n\nOn 27 June 1980 at 20:08 CET, the plane departed with a delay of one hour and 53 minutes from Bologna Guglielmo Marconi Airport for a scheduled service to Palermo Punta Raisi Airport, Sicily. With 77 passengers aboard, captain Domenico Gatti and first officer Enzo Fontana were at the controls, with two flight attendants. The flight was designated IH 870 by air traffic control, while the military radar system used AJ 421.\n\nContact was lost shortly after the last message from the aircraft was received at 20:37, giving its position over the Tyrrhenian Sea near the island of Ustica, about southwest of Naples.\nTwo Italian Air Force F-104s were scrambled at 21:00 from Grosseto Air Force Base to locate the accident area and search for any survivors, but failed to do so because of poor visibility.\n\nFloating wreckage and bodies were later found in the area. There were no survivors among the 81 people on board.\n\nAfter years of investigations, no official explanation or final report has been provided by the Italian government. In 1989, the Parliamentary Commission on Terrorism, headed by Senator Giovanni Pellegrino, issued an official statement concerning the disappearance of Flight 870, which became known as the \"Ustica Massacre\" (\"Strage di Ustica\").\n\nThe definitive sentence asserted:\n\nThe perpetrators of the crime remain unidentified. The court, unable to proceed further, declared the case archived.\n\nIn July 2006, the re-assembled fragments of the DC-9 were returned to Bologna from Pratica di Mare Air Force Base near Rome.\n\nIn June 2008, Rome prosecutors reopened the investigation into the crash after former Italian President Francesco Cossiga (who was prime minister when the incident occurred) said that the aircraft had been shot down by French warplanes. On 7 July 2008, a claim for damages was served to the French President.\n\nThe role of Italian Air Force personnel in the tragedy is unclear. Several Air Force officials have been investigated and brought to court for a number of offenses, including falsification of documents, perjury, abuse of office and aiding and abetting. Four generals were charged with high treason, on the allegations that they obstructed government investigation of the accident by withholding information about air traffic at the time of Ustica disaster.\n\nThe first ruling, on 30 April 2004, pronounced two of the generals, Corrado Melillo and Zeno Tascio, not guilty of high treason. Lesser charges against a number of other military personnel were also dropped. The abuse-of-office charge was no longer valid (because of legislative changes), and the other allegations could not be pursued further after the expiration of the statute of limitations, as the disaster had occurred more than 15 years prior. For this same reason, action could not be taken against the other two generals, Lamberto Bartolucci and Franco Ferri. However, the ruling did not acquit them, and they were still alleged to be guilty of treason. In 2005, an appeals court ruled that the accusations were made on insufficient grounds. On 10 January 2007, the Italian Court of Cassation upheld this ruling and conclusively closed the case, fully acquitting Bartolucci and Ferri of any wrongdoing.\n\nIn June 2010, Italian President Giorgio Napolitano urged all Italian authorities to cooperate in the investigation of the incident.\n\nIn September 2011, a Palermo civil tribunal ordered the Italian government to pay 100 million euros ($137 million) in civil damages to the relatives of the victims for failing to protect the flight, concealing the truth and destroying evidence.\n\nOn 23 January 2013, the Civil Cassation Court ruled that there was \"abundantly\" clear evidence that the flight was brought down by a stray missile, confirming the lower court's order that the Italian government must pay compensation.\n\nIn April 2015, an appeals court in Palermo confirmed the rulings of the 2011 Palermo civil tribunal and rejected an appeal by the state attorney.\n\nSpeculation at the time and in the years since has been fueled in part by media reports, military officials' statements and ATC/CVR recordings. Adding to the widespread conjecture was the observation of radar images showing trails of objects moving at high speeds.\n\nAfter the series of bombings that hit Italy in the 1970s, a terrorist act was the first explanation to be proposed. As the flight was delayed in Bologna by almost three hours, a bomb's timer may have been set to actually cause an explosion at the Palermo airport, or on a further flight of the same plane. The technical commission supporting a 1990 judicial enquiry reported that an explosion in the rear toilet, and not a missile strike, was the only conclusion supported by the wreckage analysis.\n\nFourteen years after the accident, a 1994 joint investigation carried out by the British Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) and Italian investigators found conclusive physical evidence (as per the wreckage recovered) that a bomb had indeed exploded mid-flight in the rear lavatory. A large section of the aircraft's fuselage around the lavatory was never recovered (presumably having disintegrated in the explosion). A test explosion in a DC-9 lavatory showed the resulting deformation in the surrounding structure to be almost identical to that of the incident aircraft. However, the Italian high courts dismissed this final report as insignificant to their own investigation, and the report was never considered.\n\nMajor sources in the Italian media have alleged that the aircraft was shot down during a dogfight involving Libyan, United States, French and Italian Air Force fighters in an assassination attempt by NATO members on an important Libyan politician, perhaps even Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi, who was flying in the same airspace that evening. This version was supported in 1999 by investigative magistrate Rosario Priore, who said in his concluding report that his investigation had been deliberately obstructed by the Italian military and members of the secret service, in compliance with NATO requests.\n\nAccording to the Italian media, documents from the archives of the Libyan secret service passed on to Human Rights Watch after the fall of Tripoli show that Flight 870 and the Libyan MiG were attacked by two French jets.\n\nOn 18 July 1980, 21 days after the Aerolinee Itavia Flight 870 incident, the wreckage of a Libyan MiG-23, along with its deceased pilot, was found on the Sila Mountains in Castelsilano, Calabria, southern Italy, according to official reports.\n\nSeveral conspiracy theories explaining the disaster persist. For example, the vessel that carried out the search for debris on the ocean floor was French, but only US officials had access to the aircraft parts they found. \nSeveral radar reports were erased and several Italian generals were indicted 20 years later for obstruction of justice. The difficulty the investigators and the victims' relatives had in receiving complete, reliable information on the Ustica disaster has been popularly described as \"un muro di gomma\" (literally, a rubber wall), because investigations just seemed to \"bounce back\".\n\nOn 27 June 2007, the Museum for the Memory of Ustica was opened in Bologna. The museum is in possession of parts of the plane, which are assembled and on display, including almost all of the external fuselage. The museum also has objects belonging to those on board that were found in the sea near the plane. \nChristian Boltanski was commissioned to produce a site-specific installation.\nThe installation consists of:\nEach loudspeaker describes a simple thought/worry (e.g. \"when I arrive I will go to the sea\")\nAll the objects found are contained in a wooden box covered with a black plastic skin.\nA small book with the photos of all objects and various information is available to visitors upon request.\n\nThe accident was featured in the 13th season of the Canadian documentary series \"Mayday\" in an episode entitled \"Massacre Over The Mediterranean\". The film examined the heavy public pressure placed upon investigators to uncover the cause of the accident, and also considered the three separate technical investigations that occurred. It ultimately advanced the conclusions of the third and final technical investigation, which concluded that the wreckage ruled out a missile and pointed to an explosion in or near the rear lavatory.\n\nThe documentary was highly critical of the Italian judiciary's failure to officially release the third technical investigation to the public, or to consider its conclusion that missiles were not responsible. Interviewee David Learmount of Flight International magazine made the following comments:\n\nFrank Taylor, a British investigator involved in the third technical inquest, also commented:\n\nA 1991 Italian film by Marco Risi, \"The Rubber Wall\", tells the story of a journalist in search of answers to the many questions left open by the accident. The film theorises on a few possible scenarios, including the possibility that the DC-9 was mistakenly shot down during an aerial engagement between NATO and Libyan jet fighters.\n\n"}
{"id": "28014844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28014844", "title": "Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage", "text": "Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage\n\nThe Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage is an international award established in 2010 by the Georgia Institute of Technology in recognition of the late Ivan Allen Jr. A Georgia Tech alumnus, Allen became a pivotal leader during America's struggle for racial integration during the 1960s. While mayor of Atlanta, Georgia, USA (1962–1970), Allen risked his place in society, his political future, and his life when he testified before the U.S. Senate Commerce Committee in support of what became the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\n\nThe Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage recognizes individuals who, like Mayor Allen, stand up for moral principles and render service to humanity without regard for personal or professional peril. Recipients positively affect public discourse in spite of the risk to their careers, their livelihoods, and even their lives. \nThe Prize is funded in perpetuity by a grant from the Wilbur and Hilda Glenn Family Foundation. It was awarded for the first time on March 15, 2011, replacing the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Progress and Service, which had been awarded from 2001–2010 to prominent Georgians.\n\nProminent human rights attorney Beatrice Mtetwa has been named recipient of the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage, an award given to individuals who, by asserting moral principle, have positively affected public discourse at the risk of their careers, livelihoods, and sometimes lives.\n\nThe Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage will be presented to Beatrice Mtetwa during a ceremony on the Georgia Tech campus on November 13, 2014. The presentation of this 2014 award is especially significant as Mtetwa, an advocate for women’s equality and advancement, will be the first woman to receive the prize. It also comes at a time when government leaders in Zimbabwe are persecuting human rights defenders such as Mtetwa.\n\nOn April 3, 2013, Congressman John Lewis, an icon of American Civil Rights was honored as the third recipient of the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage.\n\nLewis was one of the \"Big Six\" leaders of the Civil Rights Movement. He was the keynote speaker for the 1963 March on Washington, of which he was a core architect. Lewis' impact on civil rights for African-Americans has included advocating for desegregation laws and voters’ rights. A founding member and president of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), Lewis planned and led many of their activities. His personal courage was first evident when he led student sit-ins that resulted in the public accommodation of African-Americans at Nashville restaurants. He was one of the original 13 Freedom Riders who challenged legally sanctioned segregation on interstate buses. Despite repeated attacks on his dignity, physical beatings, and arrests, Lewis has remained staunchly committed to nonviolent work for social change throughout his life.\n\n\"I always did what I could do to help other people,\" Lewis said at the ceremony while reflecting on his role in the civil rights movement. \"I wanted to make a difference in order to meet the pressing need of people left out or left behind. I was inspired to find a way to a 'new way.' And this inspires me today, as I continue to keep pushing on.\"\nGeorgia Tech President G.P. \"Bud\" Peterson said, \"Congressman Lewis made his mind up to accomplish many things throughout his lifetime, and his accomplishments will transcend generations. He has dedicated his life to protecting human rights, securing civil liberties, and building what he calls 'The Beloved Community' in America. His unflinching civil rights leadership and ongoing advocacy for social change throughout his career have elevated the cause of human rights around the world.\"\n\nIn March 2012, William H. Foege was honored as the second recipient of the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage.\nAn American epidemiologist, Foege is best known as the architect of the surveillance and containment strategy that successfully eradicated the smallpox virus. He has also overseen, through leadership in the CDC, The Carter Center, and the Task Force for Child Survival (now the Task Force for Global Health), the eradication of Guinea worm disease, polio, and measles, and the elimination of river blindness. At times risking his own health and safety, Dr. Foege’s efforts have brought about extraordinary progress across an astonishing breadth of health issues, literally saving millions of lives.\nSpeaking about Foege’s merit in receiving the Prize, Jacqueline J. Royster, Dean of the Georgia Institute of Technology Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts said, “Like former Atlanta Mayor Ivan Allen Jr., Dr. Foege has envisioned a better world and created communities for realizing that dream in the face of seemingly insurmountable problems. His courage to do the right thing and his steadfastness, sometimes in the face of staunch opposition, has saved millions of lives and reshaped the global dialogue about what is possible in health and social progress.”\nGeorgia Tech President Peterson also commented. “Dr. Foege’s ability to develop and implement innovative health strategies has alleviated much human suffering in our world today and for generations to come. It is our privilege to honor Dr. Foege for his deep moral commitment to humanitarian progress and his lifetime of service through Georgia Tech’s Ivan Allen Prize for Social Courage.”\nUpon receiving the Prize, Foege said, “I use the occasion also to encourage everyone to believe that the health situation in the world is both dire and correctable. It takes hope and action, and absolute tenacity.”\n\nThe first recipient of the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage was Sam Nunn who served as a United States Senator from Georgia from 1972–1996.\n\nIn 1991, Nunn co-authored the Nunn-Lugar Act, which set up the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program that is credited with aiding former Soviet republics in ridding their territories of nuclear weapons. As of June 2014, the program had contributed to the deactivation of more than 7,600 nuclear warheads, neutralized chemical weapons, safeguarded fissile material, converted weapons facilities for peaceful use, mitigated bio-threats, and redirected the work of former weapons scientists and engineers. Senator Nunn is co-chairman and CEO of the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that focuses on reducing global threats from weapons of mass destruction.\n\nWhen announcing Senator Nunn as the recipient of the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage, Georgia Institute of Technology President Peterson stated, “While some individuals talk about achieving world peace, Sam Nunn has actively pursued this vision and created a legacy that continues to reap results long after his exit from public office.” Peterson lauded Nunn for courage and commitment to his own moral compass, for standing up for his beliefs, and for enacting meaningful and sustainable solutions for making the world a better, and more peaceful place.\n\nThe Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage was established in 2010 by the Georgia Institute of Technology. The international award honors individuals whose life and work embody the moral courage personified by former Atlanta Mayor Ivan Allen Jr. The Prize underscores the Institute’s mission to improve the human condition by recognizing those around the globe who, like Mayor Allen, have risked everything to stand up for moral principle and have made a positive difference in the world.\n\nThe Prize is funded in perpetuity by a grant from the Wilbur and Hilda Glenn Family Foundation. \n\nThe prize's forerunner was the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Progress and Service, which was awarded annually from 2001–2010 by the Georgia Tech.\n\nThe nominating committee is responsible for assessing candidates who meet the requirements of the prize, demonstrating social courage in adverse circumstances. Each year after deliberation, the committee submits a nominee to the president of the Georgia Institute of Technology, who makes the final selection.\n\nJoseph R. Bankoff, Chair, President & CEO, Woodruff Arts Center; Susan E. Eisenhower, Chairman Emeritus, The Eisenhower Institute, United States Department of Energy, Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future; Dr. Helene D. Gayle, President and CEO, CARE U.S.A.; Dr. Kenneth J. Knoespel, McEver Professor of Engineering and the Liberal Arts, Georgia Institute of Technology; Charles H. McTier, Retired President, Robert W. Woodruff Foundation; The Honorable Sam Nunn, former U.S. Senator from Georgia, Co-Chairman & CEO, Nuclear Threat Initiative, Chairman, Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Co‐Chairman, Euro‐Atlantic Security Initiative (EASI), faculty member, The Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, Georgia Institute of Technology; Dr. Catherine Ross, Director and Harry West Chair, Center for Quality Growth & Regional Development, College of Architecture Georgia Institute of Technology; Dr. Jacqueline Jones Royster, Dean, Ivan Allen College of the Liberal Arts, Georgia Institute of Technology; William J. Todd, Professor of the Practice, Ernest Scheller College of Business, Georgia Institute of Technology\n\nInman Allen, Former Chairman, Allen Workspace, Atlanta, Georgia; Marta H. Garcia, Assistant Vice President for Development, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia\n\nPresentation of the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage takes place on the Georgia Tech campus. The Symposia and festivities highlight research, teaching, endeavors, and innovation that address global challenges related to Mayor Allen’s legacy and the work of the recipient.\n\n"}
{"id": "56572251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56572251", "title": "Joseph A. Jordan Jr.", "text": "Joseph A. Jordan Jr.\n\nJoseph A. Jordan Jr. (1924 - 14 June 1991) was an African American lawyer and civil rights activist. He worked as a lawyer and judge and was part of the lawsuit heard before the Supreme Court of the United States that ended poll taxes.\n\nJordan was raised in Norfolk, Virginia. He went to the Booker T. Washington High School and went on to the Virginia Union University. In 1943, he went into the United States Army and fought overseas with the 846 Gas Company and the 67th Infantry during World War II. In September of 1945, he was injured when his jeep slid off of the highway into a mine field. The accident caused him to become paralyzed from the waist down so Jordan used a wheelchair. Jordan went on to earn a degree in sociology. He earned his law degree from Brooklyn Law School. Later, he studied labor law at New York University.\n\nIn 1954, he set up a law practice in Norfolk. In 1955, when the state of Virginia planned to create a referendum to allow segregation, Jordan filed an injunction to block the vote. When Jordan and another civil rights activist, Evelyn Thomas Butts, were restrained from picketing a supermarket for not hiring black people in high level jobs, Jordan fought the restraining order, but lost. Jordan was involved in several anti-segregation cases in 1961, 1962 and 1964 in Virginia. In November of 1963, Butts hired him to sue the state for requiring a poll tax to vote. The case was dismissed by the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in 1964. In May of 1964, Jordan and Butts filed another suit which accused the state of violating four amendments of the Constitution with the poll tax. Butts' case against the poll tax was appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States and was bundled with another case, \"Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections\" in 1966\".\"\n\nWhen the case went before the Supreme Court, Jordan argued that the poll tax laws had successfully barred black people not only from voting, but from holding office. Jordan said, \"Almost like a magic wand after the passage of this law, these poll tax laws, not a single Negro has sat in the Virginia General Assembly, and not a single Negro has held a single elected state office in the state of Virginia.\" The decision was made by the Supreme Court in two months and they decided that the poll tax or voting fee did violate the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.\n\nIn 1968, Jordan was elected to the Norfolk City Council and became the first black person to hold the seat since 1889. In 1971, Jordan was the only black member of the city council. In 1972, he became the vice-mayor of Norfolk. In 1974, Jordan resigned as vice-mayor in protest, \"saying the city is being run by the Norfolk Redevelopment Authority rather than City Council.\" \n\nJordan was appointed to the General District Court on July 1,1977. He was one of only a few African American state judges at the time. He retired from this position in 1986.\n\nJordan died at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Hampton on June 14, 1991. A public library in Norfolk is named after Jordan. A foundation in his name, the Joe Jordan Foundation, raised funds in his name to build the Martin Luther King Jr. memorial in Norfolk. The memorial was dedicated in 2000 and had been proposed in the 70s by Jordan.\n\n"}
{"id": "23776936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23776936", "title": "Kahrizak detention center", "text": "Kahrizak detention center\n\nKahrizak Detention Center (in Persian: بازداشتگاه کهریزک) is a detainment facility operated by the Judicial system of Iran in southern Tehran.\n\nAuthorities first made plans for the Kahrizak detention center in 2001. The center's cells, located underground, were apparently built without free access to fresh air and toilet facilities. With the appointment of Ahmad-Reza Radan to the post of Tehran police chief, the center became a key site for carrying out the \"Public Security Plan\" targeting drug addicts and so-called \"thugs and louts\" endangering public morality.\n\nReports of inhumane treatment of the prisoners at Kahrizak were released, with some comparing the conditions there unfavorably to even the notorious political ward 209 of Evin prison. Opposition groups have published unverified reports of human rights abuses and as many as 6,000 deaths inside the prison during the years 2007 and 2008.\n\nSeveral thousand civilians and activists were arrested after the disputed presidential election in 2009. The head of the national security forces, Esmail Ahmadi-Moghaddam, stated in an interview with state television on August 5, 2009 that only the most dangerous offenders involved in the election protests were to be delivered to the Kahrizak center, which has a 50 prisoner capacity. The rest were to be taken to Evin prison. Tehran riot police and Basij members used other official and unofficial sites to detain suspects charged with endangering national security and public safety during the protests, including the Level -4 detention center in the Interior Ministry building. Ahmadi-Moghaddam further admitted in his television interview that many of the 140 prisoners he claimed to be housed at Kahrizak were low priority suspects. Mohsen Ruholamini, the son of a conservative politician who had supported pragmatic presidential candidate Mohsen Rezaei, was among the Kahrizak prisoners.\n\nOn August 9, 2009, in a letter to the Chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council of Iran, Mehdi Karroubi demanded investigation of Iranian prisons for possible tortures and in particular sexual harassment of men and women. On August 19, he wrote to parliament speaker Ali Larijani, asking to meet with him, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, judiciary chief Ayatollah Sadeq Larijani, former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and the state prosecutor to \"personally present my documents and evidence over the cases of sexual abuse in some prisons specially Kahrizak.\"\n\nAli Larijani and Sadeq Larijani (Judiciary committee) both officially rejected his claims and Ali Khamenei's representatives, and Vice Chairman of National Security Commission of the parliament demanded Karroubi's arrest.\n\nThe release of some prisoners from Kahrizak on July 28, 2009 was followed by a number of testimonials in the foreign and opposition press on conditions inside the prison. Various news articles have reported on cramped and squalid cells where prisoners were routinely verbally abused and beaten by guards, some to death. Ahmad-Reza Radan, according to one account, daily took part in these beatings. Ahmadi-Moghaddam has since denied these reports about Radan as unfounded rumors. Mohsen Ruholamini and Amir Javadifar were two of the prisoners reported to have died from torture at Kahrizak. The medical report on Ruholamini's death originally stated that Ruholomini died of \"physical stress, the effects of being held in bad conditions, multiple blows and severe injuries to the body.\" The physician who wrote this report, Ramin Pourandarjani, subsequently died in mysterious circumstances in police headquarters. The autopsy report for Javadifar stated that his death was caused by blunt trauma injury from severe beating.\n\nFollowing massive arrests of civilians and reformist activists by Iranian police, a number of Iranian intellectuals and reformist activists condemned the detentions, and called for the release of the imprisoned protesters.\n\nIn an exceptionally strong and critical speech, the Iranian opposition leader, Mir-Hossein Mousavi spoke out on July 17, 2009 against the arrests and killings of protesters. Erstwhile prime minister Moussavi said, \"How can it be that the leaders of our country do not cry out and shed tears about these tragedies? ... Can they not see it, feel it? These things are blackening our country, blackening all our hearts. If we remain silent, it will destroy us all and take us to hell.\"\n\nGrand Ayatollah Hosein-Ali Montazeri on 29 July demanded prosecution of anybody responsible for abuses. \"Can the government deceive people by closing a detention center and blaming all the faults on a building?\" he said. \"What benefit does the government gain from the crisis, except angering the majority of the people and weakening the Islamic republic?\" He added \"Was the regime of the Shah able to resist the wave of dissatisfaction by using terror, oppression, censorship, torture, forced confessions and lying propaganda?\"\n\nGrand Ayatollah Asadollah Bayat-Zanjani said: \"We are witnessing sorrowful acts committed in the name of the regime and under the banner of God that bring pain to the heart of all supporters of the Islamic republic.\"\n\nDespite numerous reports of death and torture of arrested protesters in Iranian prisons, neither Iranian leader nor the Head of Judicial System took any measure to stop the crimes.\n\nThe crimes were so grave that even several well known conservative politicians like Ali Motahhari expressed concerns about them.\n\nIt was only after the death of the son of one of the conservative politicians, that the Iranian leader Ali Khamenei and head of Judicial System, Hashemi Shahroudi stepped in and ordered the closure of Kahrizak detention center.\n\nAn official announcement was made on August 5, 2009 that three prison wardens were arrested in connection with the torture of detainees at Kahrizak.\n\nOn December 19, 2009, Iranian authorities acknowledged that at least three protesters had been beaten to death in the Kahrizak jail. Twelve prison officials were charged with crimes, including murder.\n\nThe Iranian parliament assigned a committee to investigate the incidents. The committee released a report in January 2010 that implicated former Tehran prosecutor-general Saeed Mortazavi as being behind the abuses. Days before the report was issued, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad appointed Mortazavi as his special advisor on smuggling, which in effect was an attempt to shield Mortazavi from prosecution. On August 19, 2015, Mortazavi was acquitted on charges connected to the torture and deaths of three young men at Kahrizak in 2009, but the court's decision was appealed. On September 2016, Mortazavi issued a public apology for the prisoner killings.\n\nAhmadi-Moghaddam on August 5, 2009 stated that the security forces were re-building the Kahrizak facility to meet national prison standards and would re-open its doors in one month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "154362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154362", "title": "List of books banned by governments", "text": "List of books banned by governments\n\nBanned books are books or other printed works such as essays or plays which are prohibited by law or to which free access is not permitted by other means. The practice of banning books is a form of censorship, from political, legal, religious, moral, or (less often) commercial motives. This article lists notable banned books and works, giving a brief context for the reason that each book was prohibited. Banned books include fictional works such as novels, poems and plays and non-fiction works such as biographies and dictionaries.\n\nSince there are a large number of banned books, some publishers have specialized in them. The best-known examples are the Parisian Obelisk Press, which published Henry Miller's sexually frank novel \"Tropic of Cancer\", and Olympia Press, which published William Burroughs's \"Naked Lunch\". Both of these, the work of father Jack Kahane and son Maurice Girodias, specialized in English-language books which were prohibited, at the time, in Great Britain and the United States. , also located in Paris, specialized in books prohibited in Spain during the dictatorship of Francisco Franco. Russian literature prohibited during the Soviet period was published outside of Russia.\n\nBooks are still banned throughout the world. Nowhere in the world can everything be published, although the prohibitions vary strikingly from one country to another: hate speech, for example, is prohibited in a number of countries, such as Sweden, though the same books may be legal in the United States or United Kingdom, where the only prohibition is on child pornography. \n\nIn the United States, books have been and still are banned by school and public libraries, despite the opposition of the American Library Association to book bans. This is usually the result of complaints from parents, who find particular books not appropriate for their children (e.g., books about sexual orientation such as \"And Tango Makes Three\"). In many libraries, including the British Library and the Library of Congress, erotic books are housed in separate collections in restricted access reading rooms. In some libraries, a special application may be needed to read certain books. Libraries sometimes avoid purchasing controversial books, and the personal opinions of librarians have at times impacted book selection.\n\n\nAll about UAE *http://www.uaeemployments.com*\n\n"}
{"id": "637946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637946", "title": "List of things named after Ronald Reagan", "text": "List of things named after Ronald Reagan\n\nThis is a list of things named after former President of the United States Ronald Reagan. The \"Ronald Reagan Legacy Project\" is an organization founded by Americans for Tax Reform president Grover Norquist that seeks to name at least one notable public landmark in each U.S. state and all 3067 counties after the 40th president.\n\nThe first highway to be named after Reagan was Ronald Reagan Cross County Highway in Cincinnati.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40180186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40180186", "title": "Magonism", "text": "Magonism\n\nMagonism () is an anarchist, or more precisely anarcho-communist, school of thought precursor of the Mexican Revolution of 1910. It is mainly based on the ideas of Ricardo Flores Magón, his brothers Enrique and Jesús, and also other collaborators of the Mexican newspaper \"Regeneración\" (organ of the Mexican Liberal Party), as Práxedis Guerrero, Librado Rivera and Anselmo L. Figueroa.\n\nThe Mexican government and the press of the early 20th century called as \"magonistas\" people and groups who shared the ideas of the Flores Magón brothers, who inspired the overthrow of the dictatorship of Porfirio Díaz and performed an economic and political revolution. The fight against tyranny encouraged by the Flores Magón contravened official discourse of \"Porfirian Peace\" by which the protesters were rated as the \"Revoltosos Magonistas\" (i.e. \"Magonist rioters\") to isolate any social basis and preserve the image of peace and progress imposed by force.\n\nBoth of Flores Magón's brothers, like other members of the Mexican Liberal Party (PLM), used the term \"magonista\" to refer to the libertarian movement that promoted; as they felt they were fighting for an ideal and not to elevate in power to a boss or a group, they called themselves \"liberals\", as they were organized in the PLM, and later \"anarchists\". The same Ricardo Flores Magón affirmed: \"Liberal Party members are not magonistas, they are anarchists!\". In his literary work \"Verdugos y Víctimas\" (i.e. \"Executioners and Victims\"), one of the characters responds indignantly when he was arrested and judged: \"I'm not a magonist, I am an anarchist. An anarchist has no idols.\"\n\nMagonist thinking was influenced by anarchist philosophers such as Mikhail Bakunin and Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, and others such as Élisée Reclus, Charles Malato, Errico Malatesta, Anselmo Lorenzo, Emma Goldman, Fernando Tarrida del Mármol and Max Stirner. They were also influenced by the works of Marx, Gorky and Ibsen. However, the most influential works were the ones of Peter Kropotkin \"The Conquest of Bread\" and \"\", at the same time they were influenced by the Mexican liberal tradition of the 19th century and the self-government system of the indigenous people.\n\nIndigenous peoples, since the Spanish conquest of Mexico, searched to preserve the practice of direct democracy, decision-making in assembly, rotation of administrative charges, the defense of communal property, mutual aid as the community exploitation and rational use of natural resources, shared anarchist principles raised by the magonists.\n\nThe direct influence of indigenous thought in magonism were the teachings of Teodoro Flores, mestizo Nahua, father of the Flores Magón brothers, and the coexistence of other members of the PLM with indigenous groups during periods of organization and insurrection of PLM, between 1905 and 1910, such as the Popoluca in Veracruz, the Yaqui and Mayo in Sonora, and the Cocopah in Baja California.\n\nFernando Palomares, a Mayo indigenous, was one of the most active members of the Liberal Party who took part in the Cananea strike and libertarian campaign of 1911 in Mexicali and Tijuana.\n\nAfter the end of the armed phase of Mexican Revolution, and after the death of Ricardo Flores Magón in 1922, began the rescue of magonist thought, mainly due to trade unionists in Mexico and the United States. In the post-revolutionary Mexico, the figures of Flores Magón brothers was recollected by governments, considering them precursors of the revolution. Both the insurrection of 1910 as social rights enshrined in the Mexican Constitution of 1917 was due largely to the \"magonistas\", which since 1906 took up arms and drafted an economic and social program.\n\nHowever, although the demands that led to the revolution in theory were resolved in the Constitution and in the speeches of the revolutionary governments, there was no significant change in the lives of the most vulnerable populations. Also the \"magonistas\" considered not fighting to change the administrators of the state, but to abolish them. For this reason, the survived \"magonistas\" continued to spread anarchist propaganda. Librado Rivera was persecuted and imprisoned during the government of Plutarco Elías Calles and Enrique Flores Magón, who believed that \"the Mexican social revolution is not yet over\", could enjoy security until the presidency of Lázaro Cárdenas.\n\nThe Mexican Anarchist Federation, founded in 1941 and active for about 40 years, edited the newspaper \"Regeneración\" and spread Magonist thought.\n\nIn the 1980s Magonism survived among some youth anarcho-punk groups. The \"Biblioteca Social Reconstruir\", founded in 1980 by the Spanish anarchist in exile Ricardo Mestre and located in Mexico City, was a library where to find anarchist literature and works on Ricardo Flores Magón or copies of \"Regeneración\".\n\nIn 1994, when the Zapatista Army of National Liberation (EZLN) took up arms in Chiapas, claimed the ideas of the Flores Magón brothers. In 1997, indigenous organizations, social groups of libertarians and municipal councils of the state of Oaxaca, declared the \"Citizen Year of Ricardo Flores Magón\" from 21 November (1997) to 16 September 1998.\n\nIn August 2000, driven by indigenous organizations in the State of Oaxaca and libertarian groups in Mexico City, the Magonistas Days (\"Jornadas Magonistas\") were held for the 100 years of the founding of the newspaper \"Regeneración\". In the popular uprising of Oaxaca of 2006, took part organizations and youth groups also influenced by anarchist \"magonistas\" ideals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51044573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51044573", "title": "Massoud Foundation", "text": "Massoud Foundation\n\nThe Massoud Foundation (founded as the Ahmad Shah Massoud Foundation; Dari Persian: ) is a non-profit and non-governmental organization operating in Afghanistan. It was established in Kabul in 2003 to preserve and spread the values, leadership, and ideals of the late Ahmad Shah Massoud, the Lion of the Panjshir, who was a founding father of the resistance against the Soviet invasion in the 1980s and then against the Taliban and Al-Qaeda in the 1990s until he was assassinated by Al-Qaeda just two days prior to 9/11.\n\nIn Afghanistan, the Massoud Foundation has been involved in humanitarian and cultural efforts to improve the living standards of Afghan citizens, increase the literacy rate, and build schools, libraries, and computer labs. The Foundation funds Mandegar Daily, an independent daily newspaper in Afghanistan that advocates for democracy, anti-terrorism, and for the elimination of government corruption and inefficiency. The Foundation has held numerous seminars and conferences in Kabul and London on anti-terrorism, democracy, education, and other political issues that the Afghan government is facing.\n\n"}
{"id": "7247215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7247215", "title": "Meltwater", "text": "Meltwater\n\nMeltwater is water released by the melting of snow or ice, including glacial ice, tabular icebergs and ice shelves over oceans. Meltwater is often found in the ablation zone of glaciers, where the rate of snow cover is reducing. Meltwater can be produced during volcanic eruptions, in a similar way in which the more dangerous lahars form.\n\nWhen meltwater pools on the surface rather than flowing, it forms melt ponds. As the weather gets colder meltwater will often re-freeze. Meltwater can collect or melt under the ice's surface. These pools of water, known as subglacial lakes can form due to geothermal heat and friction.\n\nMeltwater provides drinking water for a large proportion of the world's population, as well as providing water for irrigation and hydroelectric plants. Some cities around the world have large lakes that collect snow melt to supplement water supply. Cities that source water from meltwater include Melbourne, Canberra, Los Angeles, Las Vegas amongst others.\nGlacial meltwater comes from glaciers that have receded over time. Often, there will be rivers flowing through glaciers into lakes. These brilliantly blue lakes get their color from \"rock flour\", sediment that has been transported through the rivers to the lakes. This sediment comes from rocks grinding together underneath the glacier. The fine powder is then suspended in the water and absorbs and scatters varying colors of sunlight, giving a milky turquoise appearance.\n\nMeltwater also acts as a lubricant in the basal sliding of glaciers. GPS measurements of ice flow have revealed that glacial movement is greatest in summer when the meltwater levels are highest.\n\nMeltwater can be an indication of abrupt climate change. An instance of a large meltwater body is the case of the region of a tributary of Bindschadler Ice Stream, West Antarctica where rapid vertical motion of the ice sheet surface has suggested shifting of a subglacial water body. \n\nIt can also destabilize glacial lakes leading to sudden floods, and destabilize snowpack causing avalanches. Dammed glacial meltwater from a moraine-dammed lake that is released suddenly can result in the floods, such as those that created the granite chasms in Purgatory Chasm State Reservation.\n\nIn a report published in June 2007, the United Nations Environment Programme estimated that global warming could lead to 40% of the world population being affected by the loss of glaciers, snow and the associated meltwater in Asia. Historically Meltwater pulse 1A was a prominent feature of the last deglaciation and took place 14.7-14.2 thousand years ago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6844647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6844647", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Egypt)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Egypt)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture of Egypt is a ministry responsible for maintaining and promoting the culture of Egypt. The current minister is Ines Abdel-Dayem, former chairperson of the Cairo Opera and one of six women in the Egyptian Cabinet. \n\nUntil 1958, the ministry of national guidance dealt with the cultural affairs. The ministry was established by President Gamal Abdel Nasser in 1958 under the name of the ministry of culture and national guidance. The French model was adopted by the establishment.\n\n\nIn January 2001, the Egyptian Ministry of Culture was criticized for withdrawing three novels of homoerotic poetry by the well-known 8th Century classical Arabic poet Abu Nuwas from circulation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31549074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31549074", "title": "Ministry of Education (South Korea)", "text": "Ministry of Education (South Korea)\n\nThe Ministry of Education is a cabinet-level division of the government of South Korea. It was created on March 22, 2013.\n\nIts headquarters are in the Sejong Regional Government Complex in Sejong City. Previously it was located in the Central Government Complex in Jongno District, Seoul.\n\n"}
{"id": "57851702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57851702", "title": "National Convention (South Africa)", "text": "National Convention (South Africa)\n\nThe National Convention (Dutch: \"Nationale Conventie\", Afrikaans: \"Nasionale Konvensie\"), also known as the Convention on the Closer Union of South Africa or the Closer Union Convention, was a constitutional convention held between 1908 and 1909 in Durban (12 October to 5 November 1908), Cape Town (23 November to 18 December 1908, 11 January to 3 February 1909) and Bloemfontein (3 May to 11 May 1909). The convention led to the adoption of the South Africa Act by the British Parliament and thus to the creation of the Union of South Africa. The four colonies of the area that would become South Africa - the Cape Colony, Natal Colony, the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal Colony - were represented at the convention, along with a delegation from Rhodesia. There were 33 delegates in total, with the Cape being represented by 12, the Transvaal eight, the Orange River five, Natal five, and Rhodesia three. The convention was held behind closed doors, in the fear that a public affair would lead delegates to refuse compromising on contentious areas of disagreement. All the delegates were white men, a third of them were farmers, ten were lawyers, and some were academics. Two-thirds had fought on both sides of the Second Boer War.\n\nBy the end of the convention, the delegates had drawn up a constitution that would, subject to some amendments by the British government, become the South Africa Act, which was South Africa's constitution between 1910 and 1961, when the country became a republic under the Constitution of 1961.\n\nThe first attempt to establish a union of the colonies of Southern Africa was in 1858, when burghers of the Orange Free State sent a petition to Sir George Grey, the then Governor of the Cape Colony, requesting the formation of a \"compact union\" including the Free State, the Cape, and Natal (but excluding the Transvaal). The Volksraad of the Orange Free State followed up the petition with a resolution requesting the State President, Jacobus Nicolaas Boshoff, to communicate with Grey and proposing a conference. When Grey communicated this to the Colonial Secretary, Edward Bulwer-Lytton in London, Lytton replied that the British government was not prepared to resume sovereignty over the Free State, which it had previously controlled as the Orange River Sovereignty between 1848 and 1854.\n\nIn 1871, the Cape House of Assembly passed a resolution approving of the idea of union, and in 1872 the House of Commons similarly resolved that it would be \"desirable\" for a confederation between the colonies and republics of South Africa to be established. In 1874, Lord Henry Carnarvon, who had introduced the British North America Act, sent James Anthony Froude to report on the situation in the region. Froude's presence was, however, resented, due to the South Africans' desire \"that union should come from within, not dictated by Downing Street\". Froude's report led to the British Parliament passing the South Africa Act, 1877, \"for the Union under one Government of such of the South African Colonies and States as may agree thereto\". It would have modeled the South African union on the Canadian model, but \"South Africa had hardly been consulted\" in its promulgation and no Cape parliamentarians were willing to sponsor it locally. The Act expired in August 1882, without being implemented.\n\nThe First Boer War (1880 to 1881) intervened in the journey toward union, and it was not until 1889 when a customs union was formed between the Cape and the Free State, which were joined in 1899 by the other territories with the exception of the Transvaal. The Second Boer War (1899 to 1902), which the British won, led to the formerly-independent Boer republics becoming British colonies. The customs union was renewed in 1903, now including the Transvaal.\n\nIn 1907, the High Commissioner for Southern Africa, Lord William Selborne was tasked with preparing a report on the disunion of the colonies, titled \"Review of the Present Mutual Relations of the British South African Colonies,\" described as an equivalent of the Durham Report. The report regarded the disunion in the region as artificial, and noted the shared \"Native problem\" and fiscal and economic matters. At this time the white population of the four colonies stood at around one million, with natives numbering five million. \n\nIn May 1908, the Intercolonial Customs and Railways Conference met to discuss the issue of union as well as railway and customs. Frederick Robert Moor, Prime Minister of Natal, was chosen as chairman of the conference. Each of the four self-governing colonies had three representatives: John Xavier Merriman, Jacobus Wilhelmus Sauer, and Francois Stephanus Malan representing the Cape Colony; Moor, Charles O'Grady Gubbins, and Charles Hitchins representing the Natal Colony; Louis Botha, Jan Christiaan Smuts, and Henry Charles Hull representing the Transvaal Colony; and Abraham Fischer, James Barry Munnik Hertzog, and [af] representing the Orange River Colony. Rhodesia and the Portuguese province of province of Mozambique participated on the understanding that their delegates could not vote on or discuss anything that did not concern their territories directly or which they were not legally competent to address. Lewis Loyd Mitchell, Francis James Newton, and EC Baxter represented Rhodesia; and TAG Rosado and BM d'Almeida represented Mozambique. The conference unanimously accepted Smuts' motions, which read as follows:\"(a) That in the opinion of this Conference the best interests and the permanent prosperity of South Africa can only be secured by an early union, under the Crown of Great Britain, of the several self-governing Colonies;(b) that to the union contemplated in the foregoing resolution Rhodesia shall be entitled to admission at such time and on such conditions as may hereafter be agreed upon;(c) that the members of this Conference agree to submit the foregoing resolutions to the Legislatures of their respective Colonies, and to take such steps as may be necessary to obtain their consent to the appointment of delegates to a National South African Convention, whose object shall be to consider and report on the most desirable form of South African Union and to prepare a draft constitution;(d) the Convention shall consist of not more than (12) twelve delegates from the Cape Colony, not more than (8) eight delegates from the Transvaal, not more than (5) five delegates from Natal and the Orange River Colony respectively, and it shall meet as soon as convenient after the next Sessions of all the Parliaments; provided that as soon as at least two Colonies shall have appointed their delegates the Convention shall be considered as constituted;(e) the Convention shall publish the draft constitution as soon as possible, and shall, in consultation with the Governments of the self-governing Colonies, determine the further steps to be taken in reference thereto;(f) in the Convention the voting shall be \"per capita\" and not by States. A Chairman shall be elected from the members who shall have the right of speaking and voting, and in the event of an equality of votes shall have a casting vote.\"At this time public opinion was in favor of a union between the colonies, with the business community and especially the mining houses being convinced of the financial and economic benefits union might entail. Disunion was widely blamed as a cause of much of the region's social and economic woes. The Closer Union Society was founded in Cape Town in mid-1908, with former Cape prime minister William Philip Schreiner as its president. The Society's aim was \"to encourage the formation of similar societies throughout Cape Colony and South Africa and to disseminate information on all aspects and systems of closer Union\", with several closer union societies being established across the colonies. It published \"The Framework of Union\" in 1908 which explained the constitutional structures of the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany and Switzerland, with a view to propagate the idea of union among South Africans. Mahatma Gandhi spoke at an event of the Transvaal Closer Union Society on the topic of immigration law.\n\nThe delegates to the National Convention were:\n\n\nThe main areas of contention at the National Convention were the following, with the first three being the most controversial:\n\n\nThe convention adopted equality between Dutch and English, with both becoming official languages of the new South Africa. It was also decided that South Africa would have three capitals: Cape Town would host the national Parliament, Pretoria would host the civil service, and the apex court would be located in Bloemfontein. Natal's consolation prize was securing a lucrative railway agreement for which it had been pressing since 1903.\n\nLeading up to the convention, most sought a federal dispensation. The Transvaal delegation was concerned that the Transvaal would ultimately be financially responsible for all the other provinces, given that its \"treasury was full and overflowing, and the treasuries of the other three colonies were empty, faced with the problem of balancing their budgets\". Natal and the Orange River feared that, because they were the two smaller territories, the voting power of the Cape and the Transvaal would negate their representation. Natal, having been predominantly English among its white inhabitants and being the most fervent supporter of federalism, specifically feared that a Dutch culture and language culture would be forced upon it. The Cape sought to protect the qualified franchise it had adopted which allowed black and coloureds to stand for elections and vote.\n\nJan Smuts was the primary sponsor of the idea that South Africa should be a unitary state. He criticized the American federal model as \"ineffective for the essential purpose of civilized government\" because individual states could make their own law, and South Africa had by that time already experienced too much legislative confusion, in Smuts' view. A strict federal model could also not respond quickly enough to pressing issues. Smuts also regarded Canadian federalism as emphasizing the jealousies and differences of race and religion, and felt Australian federalism led to too much friction between the states. Smuts believed that a unitary state would allow South Africans to overcome the friction and racial strife they had thereinto experienced.\n\nBut it was mainly the question of a national native policy that decided the issue, with the \"unifiers\" arguing that a strong central government would be necessary for dealing with this problem. South Africa thus became a unitary state with a single central Parliament that has \"unlimited legislative authority\". Given this parliamentary sovereignty, the constitution itself could be amended with a simple majority of both houses of Parliament, with the potential exception of two \"entrenched\" clauses governing the equality of languages and the qualified franchise in the Cape.\n\nBefore unification, each of the four colonies that would become South Africa had their own franchise policy. The Cape had a franchise qualified by property and wages. By the time of the convention, there were 22,784 black and coloured voters in the Cape, out of a total electorate of 152,221. Natal had a similar policy, having had 200 black and coloured voters on the roll out of a total electorate of 22,686. In the Transvaal and Orange River, only white men could vote or stand for election.\n\nFour potential solutions to the franchise problem were tabled at the convention:\n\n\nA standardized \"civilization test\" would have meant legal equality between whites, blacks and coloureds in South Africa, which was unacceptable to the conservative electorate in the Transvaal, Orange River and Natal. Furthermore, neither the Cape nor the two former Boer republics were willing to compromise on their respective franchise systems. This led to the fourth option being adopted, with the Cape qualified franchise receiving constitutional protection in section 35 of the South Africa Act until such a time as it is amended by a joint sitting of Parliament with a supporting vote of two-thirds of the members. This victory for the Cape delegation did however not extend to the ability of blacks and coloureds to sit in Parliament or provincial councils. While they could thus continue to vote in the Cape, blacks and coloureds could no longer be elected to legislative office.\n\nAs South Africa was to be a unitary rather than a federal state, the provinces would have no legislatures of their own, but instead a system of provincial councils wholly subordinate to the national Parliament. No conflict would thus be possible between the councils and Parliament, as the provinces had no exclusive powers - only those assigned to them by the sovereign legislature.\n\nIn their desire to keep the provincial council non-partisan, the delegates sought to model it largely on that of Switzerland. In this regard, choosing the executive committee of the council was made to be through proportional representation, with the executive Administrator of each province being independently appointed.\n\nEducation was one of the key areas of jurisdiction added to the provincial council system, primarily for the fears raised by Natal and the Orange River that their language rights would be undermined. Their own provincial councils could thus set provincial language standards in education.\n\nThis desire for non-partisanship did not come to fruition, however, as every provincial election since the adoption of the South Africa Act would be fought along party political lines.\n\nAfter the draft constitution was formulated, it was tabled before the respective colonial legislatures for approval. Stephen Leacock wrote that its acceptance in the Transvaal was a foregone conclusion, as the dominant political parties in the legislature had both agreed to the constitution beforehand. The Cape Parliament, on the other hand, did propose some amendments, including the scrapping of the proportional representation system as adopted at the convention, the scrapping of which the Orange River Colony agreed with. Leacock continues:\"In Natal, which as an ultra-British and ultra-loyal colony, was generally supposed to be in fear of union, many amendments were offered. The convention then met again at Bloemfontein, made certain changes in the draft of the constitution, and again submitted the document to the colonies. This time it was accepted. Only in Natal was it thought necessary to take a popular vote, and here, contrary to expectation, the people voted heavily in favor of union.\"The Cape submitted 12 amendments, Natal 17 (in another attempt to secure a federal arrangement), and the Orange River three. 40 amendments were subsequently made by the convention between 3 and 11 May 1909 in Bloemfontein. The final approval by the colonial governments happened between May and June. The Natal referendum returned 11,121 votes in favor of the draft constitution and 3,701 against.\n\nThe various colonial governments, after having approved the draft, agreed with the resolution taken at the convention that the constitution be referred to the British Parliament for adoption, in which would become the South Africa Act. Each colonial legislature appointed delegates to go to London, empowered to agree to changes \"not inconsistent with the provisions and principles of the draft act\". In London, 53 amendments were made to the bill, most of which were procedural and not substantive, and Parliament passed the constitution in essentially the same form it had been submitted by the National Convention. It received royal assent on 20 September 1909 and the Union of South Africa came into being on 31 May 1910, \"exactly eight years to the day on which the Peace of Vereeniging was signed\".\n\nThe decision of the National Convention to choose a unitary rather than a federal framework under a regime of parliamentary sovereignty led to the central government, and moreover the central Parliament, not having a specified list of enumerated powers, instead being able to govern essentially as it pleased over the whole of the country. This led to Afrikaners fearing language inequality in the years after the constitution was adopted, despite the equality provisions in the South Africa Act. In turn, this would partly cause Hertzog to establish the National Party in 1912. It also led to the \"flag controversy\" of 1926 and 1927, and the imposition of racial apartheid by the National Party from 1948 onward.\n\nThat the South Africa Act was enacted by the British Parliament also led to controversy in later years, with some arguing that the constitution was \"foisted on South Africa by a foreign parliament\".\n\nIn 1951, the National Party introduced the Separate Representation of Voters Act, which intended to remove coloured voters from the voters' roll. Because Parliament was legally sovereign, and because the Statute of Westminster had already come into effect, government felt it was lawful to change the entrenched clauses without adhering to the requirements of the South Africa Act (i.e. both houses of Parliament must sit jointly and pass an amendment with a two-thirds majority). The Separate Representation of Voters Act thus passed without the requisite two-thirds majority required, and without both houses sitting together, to amend the Cape qualified franchise, plunging South Africa into a constitutional crisis that would continue until 1955.\n\nThe Convention for a Democratic South Africa (Codesa), which transpired between 1991 and 1993 and led to the end of the apartheid system, was the second constitutional convention that occurred in South Africa to draft a new constitution. It led to the adoption of the 1993 \"interim\" Constitution, and at the same time the end of the parliamentary sovereignty that had started in 1910 when the South Africa Act came into being.\n"}
{"id": "41305622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41305622", "title": "National Unionist Zamindara Party", "text": "National Unionist Zamindara Party\n\nThe National Unionist Zamindara Party is a political party in Rajasthan, India. It was founded in 2013 by guar farmers to represent their interests. While there is no connection to the historic Punjab Unionists, the party honours the legacy of Unionist leaders like Sir Chhotu Ram. The party won 2 seats in the 2013 state election.\n"}
{"id": "398317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398317", "title": "Nationalism and sport", "text": "Nationalism and sport\n\nNationalism and sport are often intertwined, as sports provide a venue for symbolic competition between nations; sports competition often reflects national conflict, and in fact has often been a tool of diplomacy. The involvement of political goals in sport is seen by some as contrary to the fundamental ethos of sport being carried on for its own sake, for the enjoyment of its participants, but this involvement has been true throughout the history of sport.\n\nMost sports are contested between national teams, which encourages the use of sporting events for nationalist purposes, whether intentionally or not. The signaling of national solidarity through sport is one of the primary forms of banal nationalism.\n\nSeveral sporting events are a matter of national pride; The Ashes is a matter of national pride between England and Australia. Also in cricket an India versus Pakistan match puts both countries on a virtual standstill as if it were all about national pride during those matches.\n\nThe Olympic Games are the premier stage for nationalist competition, and its history reflects the history of political conflict since its inception at the end of the 19th century. The 1936 Summer Olympics held in Berlin was an illustration, maybe best acknowledged in hindsight, where an ideology was developing which used the event to strengthen its spread through propaganda. The boycott by the United States and politically aligned nations of the 1980 Summer Olympics and the Soviet Union and politically aligned nations of the 1984 Summer Olympics were part of the Cold War conflict.\n\nWhen apartheid was the official policy in South Africa, many sportspeople adopted the conscientious approach that they should not appear in competitive sports there. Some feel this was an effective contribution to the eventual demolition of the policy of apartheid, others feel that it may have prolonged and reinforced its worst effects. Many African nations boycotted the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, as a result of then New Zealand Prime Minister Rob Muldoon allowing the All Blacks to tour South Africa. The issue would later come to a head during the 1981 Springbok Tour.\n\nGeorge Orwell's essay \"The Sporting Spirit\" examines the effect nationalism plays on sport, where Orwell argues that various sporting events trigger violence between groups for the very reason of competition.\n\nIn the history of Ireland, Gaelic sports were clearly carried on with nationalist overtones: for example, for most of the last century a person could have been banned from playing Gaelic football, hurling, or other sport, if the person was seen to have played Association football, cricket, rugby or any other game which was of British origin.\n\nThe nationalistic Italian fascists also created Volata as their own home-grown alternative to soccer and rugby. It was intended to be a replacement for the popular games perceived to be of British origin that would be of a more local character, tracing its heritage back to the earlier Italian games of Harpastum and Calcio Fiorentino. However, unlike its Gaelic equivalents, Volata was short-lived and is no longer played.\n\nIn Scotland, the Old Firm derby in Glasgow featuring Celtic, historically linked to the city's Catholic community, and Rangers, similarly linked to the city's Protestant community, have also historically seen trends along religio-political lines.\n\nThe policy of Spanish football team Athletic Bilbao of picking only Basque players is strongly linked to Basque nationalism. In the same vein, FC Barcelona have since the late 1990s promoted from youth ranks a series of Catalan players such as Xavi and Carles Puyol. Indeed, the club is widely seen as the de facto representative of Catalonia, extending the Autonomous Community's reach to areas it otherwise would not be able to influence.\n\nIn Canada, the Montreal Canadiens, the world's oldest and most successful professional ice hockey team, has always been a symbol for Francophone Quebeckers in Montreal. The teams has had rivalries in succession with the Anlgophone Quebec's Montreal Wanderers and Montreal Maroons, as well as English Canada's Toronto Maple Leafs. As well, from 1975 to 1995 there was a rivalry with the Quebec Nordiques from Quebec City, which took on political overtones, with Canadiens fans being more likely to be Liberals and federalists, and Nordiques fans more likely Pequists and sovereigntists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5751940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5751940", "title": "Pathology Messaging Implementation Project", "text": "Pathology Messaging Implementation Project\n\nPathology Messaging Implementation Project (PMIP) is the project that introduced universal delivery of electronic pathology results to GPs in Great Britain. The standard used by the British National Health Service (NHS) to transmit pathology orders and pathology test results currently uses UN-EDIFACT based messages.\n\nPMIP began in the United Kingdom as the PMEP (Pathology Messaging Enabling Project) under the control of the NHS Information Authority and was supported by the Royal College of Pathologists (Dr Rick Jones), the Royal College of GPs (Dr Stephen Pill) and the British Medical Association. PMIP was designed for the transmission of structured pathology orders and their associated results between pathology and primary care systems. Messages are encapsulated in EDIFACT rather than XML as this work had already been done.\n\nOriginally messages were to be encrypted end-to-end (organisation-to-organisation) using public key infrastructure (PKI). The NHS subsequently moved to an alternative strategy using Data Transfer Service (DTS). Messages are encrypted from the pathology laboratory to the DTS server, and again from the DTS server to the General Practitioner using the PMIP interim messaging cryptographic service. The DTS provides application-to-application messaging within the NHS as well as providing a replacement for the X.400 service. It also provides easier development capability for the system suppliers at each end site.\n\nAll pathology tests and profiles are coded with Read Codes which had initially been developed by a General Practitioner, James Read, to describe all aspects of healthcare for his own use. These codes were subsequently adopted by the NHS. A subset, known as the Bounded Code List (BCL), was developed specifically for this project. Read Codes have been subsumed into Clinical Terms (CT), which is an enhancement of the American SNOMED (Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine) classification scheme.\n\nThe electronic delivery of test results from clinical laboratories to clinical users is rightly seen as a service that can provide clinical benefit by speeding up diagnostic processes and ensuring accurate and timely delivery of critical clinical information. Such electronic transfers were begun in the UK and Europe in the early 1990s using ad hoc message standards. In the mid-1990s the NHS in the UK took the bold step of making this a universal feature of result delivery to general practice (GPs) and embarked on two linked projects to achieve this. In the first, the Pathology Messaging Enabler Project, standards were defined and infrastructure installed to link 200 laboratory systems to 8,500 GP systems. In the second project, the Pathology Messaging Implementation Project, these standards and the associated software was rolled out. By 2004 more than 35 million results messages were being transmitted each year and in 2007 some 50 million such messages were safely and securely delivered.\n\n"}
{"id": "20779029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20779029", "title": "Peace feeler", "text": "Peace feeler\n\nA peace feeler is, in diplomacy, a means of determining whether a warring party is prepared to end hostilities. William Safire defines it as \"a diplomatic probe, real or imagined, to end hostilities.\"\n"}
{"id": "35694109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35694109", "title": "Persecution of Hazara people in Quetta", "text": "Persecution of Hazara people in Quetta\n\nThe Hazara community in Quetta, in Pakistan, has been the target of persecution and violence. The Pakistani Sunni Muslim extremist militant group, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, is assumed to be behind the attacks against Hazaras.\n\nHazaras have been living in Pakistan before partition since 1880s. Almost all migrated due to persecution by Emir Abdul Rahman Khan and a small part in 1990's due to ethnic cleansing by the Afghan Taliban. The Hazaras are mainly Shiite Muslims, a minority in Sunni-dominated Pakistan. Their ethnicity is easily identifiable due to their physical features.\n\nActs of violence involving Sunni Muslims and their Shia counterparts in Pakistan have been evident since the 1980s. They are generally considered to have arisen from attempts by the then national leader, Zia ul-Haq, to legitimise his military dictatorship and from the influx of weapons into the country following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Although the perpetrators often do not claim responsibility for the attacks, expert analysis suggests that in recent times it is the Sunnis who are dominating the aggression and that they are motivated by the ideology of Al-Qaeda. \n\nQuetta, which is the capital of the Pakistani province of Balochistan, has seen numerous of these violent incidents. This is in part because of a separatist movement involving militants from the ethnic minority who desire greater autonomy and also because the Pakistani military is engaged in counter-insurgency operations near to the province's border with Afghanistan, where there is tribal strife that involves the Taliban and allied groups.\n\nIt is widely assumed that the Al-Qaeda-affiliated Sunni Muslim extremist militant group, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) and Sipah-e-Sahaba, is behind the attacks on the Hazara community in the region. There are differences of opinion regarding whether LeJ is a breakaway group of a banned former political party, Sipah-e-Sahaba, or simply its armed wing. The LeJ openly issues death threats to Hazaras through newspaper ads and describes them as \"wajib-ul-qatl\" (deserving of death). Lashkar-e-Jhangvi operates from sanctuaries in Afghanistan.\n\nVarious advocacy groups, such as the Hazara People International Network, have been formed to publicise the situation and promote opposition to it. The Hazara diaspora in Australia, Western Europe and North America have also joined these protests from time to time. Haji Mohammad Mohaqiq, the political leader of the Hazara in Afghanistan, has also expressed solidarity with the Hazara community in Quetta.\n\nThe persecution carried out against the Hazara have been documented by the United Nations, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Asian Human Rights Commission, Human Rights Commission of Pakistan and Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission.\n\nFormer Balochistan chief minister Aslam Raisani was asked to resign by protesters after Mastung Massacre. Mahmood Khan Achakzai, and Sardar Akhtar Mengal condemned the killings and demanded that the Pakistani security establishment take stern action against those involved in terrorism and acts of violence against civilians.\n\nHazaras have also asked the government to deploy soldiers in Quetta to provide them protection from the attacks. Many Hazaras demanded that Pakistan army should take control of the province.\n\nIn response, many members and leaders of Lashkar-e Jhangvi (LeJ) have been killed in military operations conducted by the army and the police.\n\nFebruary 9:\n\nEight passengers were shot dead and five severely wounded when they were traveling in a van en route from Hazara Town to Alamdar road. Later, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi claimed responsibility for the attack.\n\nJune 8:\n\nTwelve Young Hazara police cadets were killed when two assailants opened fire on their vehicle. The attack occurred on Saryab Road and left nine others injured.\n\nJuly 4:\nFifty five people were killed and over 150 were injured in an attack on worshipers during Friday Prayers on Mekongi road Quetta.\n\nMarch 2:\n\nAt least 60 people were killed and more than 100 critically injured when a religious procession of the Shia Muslims was attacked with extensive open-firing which followed an explosion by rival Sunni extremists at Liaquat Bazaar in Quetta on Tenth of Muharram. Lashkar-e Jhangvi claimed the responsibility.\n\nJanuary 10: Agha Ghulam Ali, aged 25, owner of the famous fruit juice outlet in Pakistan. His father Agha Abbas Ali had also been murdered by the same Sunni Muslim terrorist organization in May 2002.\n\nSeptember 3:\nAt least 73 people were killed and 206 injured when a bomb exploded during a rally.\n\nMay 6:\nEight died and fifteen were wounded in the early morning when armed men fired rockets at Hazara people playing outside in an open field. Children were also among the victims. \n\nJune 16:\n\nAbrar Hussain, the Pakistani Olympian boxer and Chairman Balochistan Sports Board, was assassinated near Ayub National Stadium in Quetta.\n\nAugust 31:\n\nThirteen died and twenty-two were wounded when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the morning of Eid near \"Hazara Eid Gah\". Four women and two children were also among the dead.\nSeptember 20:\nA bus carrying pilgrims to Taftan was stopped in Mastung near Quetta, after identifying Hazara passengers they were massacred leaving 26 dead. Three more were shot dead when they were on their way to collect the bodies.\n\nSeptember 23:\n\nFive more Shia Hazara were casualties in an attack when unidentified gunmen opened fire on a van.\n\nJanuary 26:\n\nThree Hazara men were shot dead in Quetta. Two of the victims were public servants and the third one Abid Ali Nazish, was a television artist.\n\nMarch 29:\n\nA taxi carrying passengers from Hazara Town was sprayed with bullets, which killed seven and injured six. Three women and some children were also among the casualties. This was the third attack on the community in just one week. Two boys under 16 were shot dead by the police as they tried to disperse angry protesters blocking traffic, raising the death toll to nine.\n\nApril 3:\n\nTwo Hazara men were shot dead in \"Mekongi road\", Quetta, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) claimed responsibility for the attack.\n\nApril 9:\n\nSix men were killed by unidentified gunmen on \"Prince road\".\n\nApril 12:\n\nThree businessmen, one Tea trader and two Ice cream parlour owners, were gunned down in the busiest bazaars of the city, in two separate incidents.\n\nApril 14:\n\nEight Hazara men were killed on their way to work when armed assailants opened fire on a taxi carrying them on \"Brewery road\".\n\nApril 21:\n\nTwo brothers were shot dead on \"Brewery road\" near SBKW University adjacent to Hazara Town, Quetta. The Pakistani paramilitary force of Frontier Corps later arrested three suspects with the help of locals.\n\nMay 15:\n\nTwo brothers were killed when unidentified gunmen opened fire on them while they were standing in the line outside Passport issuing office on \"Joint road\", Quetta.\n\nJune 28:\n\n15 people were killed and 45 others injured, when a suicide attack occurred on a bus in Quetta which had just returned from Iran carrying 60 pilgrims including scores of women and children belonging to the Hazara community. Among the dead were four women and two children.\n\nNovember 6:\n\n\"Assailants on a motorcycle opened fire on a yellow taxi cab on Spinny Road\": 3 Hazaras killed, 2 injured.\n\n10th Jan 2013: \n\nSeveral bombings took place in the southwestern Pakistani in the city of Quetta, where four separate explosions a few minutes apart in the evening ripped through a snooker hall Alamdar Road in a neighborhood dominated by ethnic Hazara Shiites, killing at least 115 people in total and wounding more than 270. The first explosion happened inside the hall, and a vehicle was blown outside the club by one of the attackers on the arrival of police officers and journalists. The second explosion killed five police officers along with one cameraman. Due to the overabundance of casualties, the hospitals were overwhelmed. It was, according to one Hazara leader, the worst attack in Quetta in 14 years. Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, a sunni terrorist organization, has claimed the responsibility of these attacks.\n\n16th Feb 2013:\n\nA big bomb blast at Kirani Roadnear Hazara Town of Quetta killed 73 and wounded at least 180 people from Shia community.\nThe deadly bombing comes after 36 days of Governor Rule in Balochistan that was imposed following Alamdar Road's twin bombings on Jan 10 in Quettawhich had claimed more than 100 lives of Hazara people.\nattacks.\nBanned sunni terrorist outfit Lashkar Jhangvi (LJ) claimed responsibility for the bombing.\n\n30 June 2013:\n\nAt least 33 Hazaras were killed (including 9 women and 4 children) and over 70 seriously injured (15 in critical condition) when Al-Qaeda affiliated terrorists carried a suicide attack and exploded an improvised explosive device in a crowded area in Ali Abad, Hazara Town area. The attacks were meters away from Abu Talib mosque near Blakhi chowk (4-way) in Ali Abad.\nhe attack, once again, has happened despite the fact that the entire area is cordoned off by security agencies and every person entering the area is checked.\nAl-Qaeda affiliated Lashkar-e Jhangvi (LEJ) terrorists called NNI and claimed responsibility for the Attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58434991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58434991", "title": "Rafale deal controversy", "text": "Rafale deal controversy\n\nThe Rafale Deal Controversy is a political controversy in India related to the purchase of 36 multirole fighter aircraft for a price estimated to be  worth Rs 58,000 crore (7.8 billion euros) by The Defence Ministry of India from France's Dassault Aviation. Origin of the deal lies in the Indian MRCA competition..\n\nOn 31 January 2012, Indian Ministry of Defence announced that Dassault Rafale had won the MMRCA competition to supply Indian Air Force with 126 aircraft along with an option for 63 additional aircraft. The first 18 aircraft were to be supplied by Dassault Aviation fully built and the remaining 108 aircraft were to be manufactured under license by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) with transfer of technology from Dassault. Rafale was chosen as the lowest bidder based on life-cycle cost, which is a combination of cost of acquisition, operating cost over a duration of 40 years and cost of transfer of technology. The negotiations with Dassault dragged on over disagreements on warranty for aircraft produced by HAL. India wanted Dassault to ensure the quality of aircraft produced by HAL, but Dassault refused to do so. In January 2014, it was reported that the cost of the deal had escalated to $30 billion, with each aircraft costing $120 million. In February 2014, defence minister A. K. Antony said that the procedure of calculation of life-cycle cost was being re-examined and the contract could not be signed in fiscal year 2013-14 due to budgetary constraints.\n\nThe disagreements over cost and warranty for aircraft produced by HAL continued, defence minister Manohar Parrikar said that Sukhoi Su-30MKI could be acquired as an alternative to Rafale. Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha disagreed, saying that Su-30MKI and Rafale had different capabilities and one could not replace the other. During an official visit to France in April 2015, Indian prime minister Narendra Modi announced that India would acquire 36 fully built Rafales citing \"critical operational necessity\". In July 2015, defence minister Manohar Parrikar informed the Rajya Sabha that the tender for 126 aircraft had been withdrawn and negotiations for 36 aircraft had begun. In January 2016, India and France signed a memorandum of understanding for acquisition of 36 aircraft. In September 2016, India and France signed an inter-governmental agreement (IGA) for the acquisition of 36 aircraft at a cost of €7.87 billion. It was reported that India would acquire 28 single-seat aircraft at a cost of €91.1 million each and 8 dual-seat aircraft at a cost of €94 million each. The deal also included enhancements specific to Indian Air Force at a cost of €1.8 billion, establishment of two aircraft maintenance and overhaul facilities at a cost of €1.8 billion, a weapons package costing €710 million and a performance-based logistics agreement at a cost of €353 million.\n\nThe agreement included a 50% \"offset clause\", which requires the companies involved in the agreement to invest 50% of the contract value back into India. Of this 50%, 74% or €2.9 billion would have to come from purchase of goods and services from India. In October 2016, Reliance Group and Dassault announced the creation of a 51:49 joint venture named Dassault Reliance Aerospace Pvt. Ltd. The joint venture planned to manufacture components for Legacy Falcon 2000 series of jets to fulfil Dassault's offset obligation.\n\nThe day after the signing of IGA between France and India, Indian National Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari asked for details of the agreement to be made public and questioned if there was an escalation of per-aircraft cost from crore to crore. In November 2017, Congress alleged that procurement procedures were bypassed in acquisition of Rafale and questioned the presence of Anil Ambani in France during Modi's announcement to acquire 36 fully built aircraft. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala also alleged that HAL was bypassed in Rafale contract and questioned if there was an escalation of per-aircraft cost from crore to crore. Anil Ambani's Reliance Defence Limited denied the allegations and released a statement that he was present as a member of Indo-French CEO forum. Defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman denied the allegations of procedural wrongdoing and said that approval from Cabinet Committee on Security had been obtained before signing of IGA. She said that the prices could not be compared as the tender for 126 aircraft and the agreement for 36 aircraft had different requirements. She also said that transfer of technology to HAL would not be economically feasible in a smaller contract for 36 aircraft. Air Chief Marshal Birender Singh Dhanoa also denied the allegations and said that the agreement for 36 aircraft was signed with better terms than the one that was being negotiated under MMRCA tender.\n\nFormer chief of air staff Arup Raha said in an interview that Defence Procurement Procedure allows for government-to-government procurement and there was no procedural bypass in signing of the IGA. He added that the agreement for 36 aircraft was cheaper than the previous proposal and had a better maintenance and weapons package. He said that most of the confusion over cost was due to comparison of prices from different base years and comparison of different deliverables. Elaborating on the differences between the IGA and the proposed acquisition under MMRCA tender, he said that the new agreement had provisions for training, a better performance-based logistics package and two aircraft maintenance and overhaul facilities that were not present in the original proposal.\n\nIn a controversy that has been ongoing for sometime, allegations in the controversy have resulted in a public incident in the Parliament of India during a no-confidence motion debate on 21 July 2018. Rahul Gandhi, president of the main opposition party, Indian National Congress, made what has been described as bold and direct accusations toward the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi. The prime minister dismissed the allegations as the program's interactions are between the governments of India and France, without any middlemen. Both governments have then officially refuted the charges.\n\nIndian National Congress directly blames the Indian Government led by Narendra Modi for overlooking the capabilities of government-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) in favour of Reliance Defence for the offset deal with Dassault. Indian defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman rejected these charges by saying that \" Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) was dropped from the jet deal by the previous UPA regime after French manufacturer Dassault Aviation and the state-owned entity failed to agree on production terms.\n\nFormer French President Francois Hollande has been quoted by an article on a French Mediapart, an online investigative and opinion journal as stating that the Indian government had asked the French government to nominate Anil Ambani's Reliance Defence Ltd. as its India partner in the Rafale deal.but later Hollande clarified that \"it on the sidelines of a meeting in Canada on Friday that France “did not choose Reliance in any way.” When asked whether India had put pressure on Reliance and Dassault to work together, Mr. Hollande said he was unaware and “only Dassault can comment on this.”as reported by AFP\n\nContradicting Hollande's claim, French government issued a statement mentioning that French companies have the full freedom to select Indian firms for the Rafale contract. Dassault also clarified that Anil Ambani was Dassault Aviation’s choice\n\nFinance minister Arun Jaitley later dissmised the charges as factually false.\n\nIndian government's Defence Ministry reiterated its earlier stand while responding to later claims of former French President Francois Hollande about involvement of a particular private firm's Rafale offset contract by saying \"Neither government of India nor French government had any say in the commercial decision\".\n\nIndian National Congress accused Indian business magnate Anil Ambani's Reliance Defence Ltd of getting the part of the contract by unfair means. The offsets contracts in the deal is alleged as the biggest example of crony capitalism\nIn response, Anil Ambani threatened to sue Congress Party for defamation.\n\nReliance also sued NDTV regarding its reporting on the matter which was noted by New York based Committee to Protect Journalists.\n\nIn September 2018, The Supreme Court of India agreed to hear the PIL petitions related to the controversy. while Congress said they would wait for getting the necessary documents before moving court on the matter.\nOn October 10 The Supreme Court asked the Central government to provide details of the decision making process in the Rafale deal with France in a sealed cover by October 29.\n\n"}
{"id": "13555277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13555277", "title": "Recordable offence", "text": "Recordable offence\n\nA recordable offence is any offence under United Kingdom law where the police must keep records of convictions and offenders on the Police National Computer.\n\nA 'Recordable offence' should not be confused with a 'Notifiable Offence'.\n\nThe power for police to keep such records is contained in the National Police Records (Recordable Offences) Regulations 2000. This states that a 'crime recordable offence' is an offence which must be recorded as a conviction on the PNC.\n\nRecordable offences include any offence punishable by imprisonment, plus a number of non-imprisonable offences, such as:\n\n\nA full, lengthy, list of recordable offences is available, provided by ACPO as an Appendix to their Retention Guidelines for Nominal Records on the Police National Computer.\n\nWhere a person has been arrested for a recordable offence, police may fingerprint and take non-intimate DNA samples from suspects without authorisation from senior ranks.\n\n"}
{"id": "35348624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35348624", "title": "Regent", "text": "Regent\n\nA regent (from the Latin \"regens\": ruling, governing) is a person appointed to govern a state because the monarch is a minor, is absent or is incapacitated. The rule of a regent or regents is called a regency. A regent or regency council may be formed \"ad hoc\" or in accordance with a constitutional rule. \"Regent\" is sometimes a formal title. If the regent is holding his position due to his position in the line of succession, the compound term prince regent is often used; if the regent of a minor is his mother, she is often referred to as \"queen regent\".\n\nIf the formally appointed regent is unavailable or cannot serve on a temporary basis, a \"Regent ad interim\" may be appointed to fill the gap.\n\nIn a monarchy, a regent usually governs due to one of these reasons, but may also be elected to rule during the interregnum when the royal line has died out. This was the case in the Kingdom of Finland and the Kingdom of Hungary, where the royal line was considered extinct in the aftermath of World War I. In Iceland, the regent represented the King of Denmark as sovereign of Iceland until the country became a republic in 1944. In the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth (1569–1795), kings were elective, which often led to a fairly long interregnum. In the interim, it was the Roman Catholic Primate (the Archbishop of Gniezno) who served as the regent, termed the \"interrex\" (Latin: ruler \"between kings\" as in ancient Rome). In the small republic of San Marino, the two Captains Regent, or \"Capitani Reggenti\", are elected semi-annually (they serve a six-month term) as joint heads of state and of government.\n\nFamous regency periods include that of the Prince Regent, later George IV of the United Kingdom, giving rise to many terms such as Regency era and Regency architecture. Strictly this period lasted from 1811 to 1820, when his father George III was insane, though when used as a period label it generally covers a wider period. Philippe II, Duke of Orléans was Regent of France from the death of Louis XIV in 1715 until Louis XV came of age in 1723; this is also used as a period label for many aspects of French history, as \"Régence\" in French, again tending to cover a rather wider period than the actual regency. The equivalent Greek term is epitropos, meaning overseer. \n\nAs of 2018, Liechtenstein (under Alois, Hereditary Prince of Liechtenstein) is the only country with an active regency.\n\nThe term regent may refer to positions lower than the ruler of a country. The term may be used in the governance of organisations, typically as an equivalent of \"director\", and held by all members of a governing board rather than just the equivalent of the chief executive. Some university managers in North America are called regents and a management board for a college or university may be titled the \"Board of Regents\". In New York State, all activities related to public and private education (P-12 and postsecondary) and professional licensure are administered by the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York, the appointed members of which are called regents. The term \"regent\" is also used for members of governing bodies of institutions such as the national banks of France and Belgium. \n\nIn the Dutch Republic, the members of the ruling class, not formally hereditary but forming a de facto patrician class, were informally known collectively as \"regenten\" (the Dutch plural for \"regent\") because they typically held positions as \"regent\" on the boards of town councils, as well as charitable and civic institutions. The regents group portrait, \"regentenstuk\" or \"regentessenstuk\" for female boards in Dutch, literally \"regents' piece\", is a group portrait of the board of trustees, called regents or regentesses, of a charitable organization or guild. This type of group portrait was popular in Dutch Golden Age painting during the 17th and 18th centuries. In the Dutch East Indies, a regent was a native prince allowed to rule de facto colonized 'state' as a \"regentschap\" (see that term). Consequently, in the successor state of Indonesia, the term regent is used in English to mean a \"bupati\", the head of a \"kabupaten\" (second level local government).\n\nAgain in Belgium and France, (\"Régent\" in French, or in Dutch) Regent is the official title of a teacher in a lower secondary school (junior high school), who does not require a college degree but is trained in a specialized \"école normale\" (normal school). In the Philippines, specifically, the University of Santo Tomas, the Father Regent, who must be a Dominican priest and is often also a teacher, serves as the institution's spiritual head. They also form the Council of Regents that serves as the highest administrative council of the university. In the Society of Jesus, a regent is an individual training to be a Jesuit and who has completed his Novitiate and Philosophy studies, but has not yet progressed to Theology studies. A regent in the Jesuits is often assigned to teach in a school or some other academic institution as part of the formation toward final vows.\n\n"}
{"id": "217987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217987", "title": "Reichstag Fire Decree", "text": "Reichstag Fire Decree\n\nThe Reichstag Fire Decree () is the common name of the Decree of the Reich President for the Protection of People and State () issued by German President Paul von Hindenburg on the advice of Chancellor Adolf Hitler on 28 February 1933 in immediate response to the Reichstag fire. The decree nullified many of the key civil liberties of German citizens. With Nazis in powerful positions in the German government, the decree was used as the legal basis for the imprisonment of anyone considered to be opponents of the Nazis, and to suppress publications not considered \"friendly\" to the Nazi cause. The decree is considered by historians as one of the key steps in the establishment of a one-party Nazi state in Germany.\n\nHitler had been appointed Chancellor of Germany only four weeks previously, on 30 January 1933, when he was invited by President von Hindenburg to lead a coalition government. Hitler’s government had urged von Hindenburg to dissolve the Reichstag and to call elections for 5 March.\n\nOn the evening of 27 February 1933 — six days before the parliamentary election — fire broke out in the Reichstag chambers. While the exact circumstances of the fire remain unclear to this day, what is clear is that Hitler and his supporters quickly capitalized on the fire as a means by which to speed their consolidation of power. Hitler almost immediately blamed the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) for causing the blaze, and believed the fire would result in more Germans supporting the Nazis. According to Rudolf Diels, Hitler was heard shouting through the fire \"these sub-humans do not understand how the people stand at our side. In their mouse-holes, out of which they now want to come, of course they hear nothing of the cheering of the masses.\"\n\nSeizing on the burning of the Reichstag building as the supposed opening salvo in a communist uprising, the Nazis were able to throw millions of Germans into a convulsion of fear at the threat of Communist terror. The official account stated:\nThe burning of the Reichstag was intended to be the signal for a bloody uprising and civil war. Large-scale pillaging in Berlin was planned for as early as four o’clock in the morning on Tuesday. It has been determined that starting today throughout Germany acts of terrorism were to begin against prominent individuals, against private property, against the lives and safety of the peaceful population, and general civil war was to be unleashed…\n\nWithin hours of the fire, dozens of Communists had been thrown into jail. The next day, officials in the Prussian Ministry of the Interior, which was led by Hermann Göring, discussed ways to provide legal cover for the arrests. Ludwig Grauert, the chief of the Prussian state police, proposed an emergency presidential decree under Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution, which gave the president the power to take any measure necessary to protect public safety without the consent of the Reichstag. It would have suspended most civil liberties under the pretence of preventing further Communist violence. There had already been discussions within the Cabinet about enacting such measures. Justice Minister Franz Gürtner, a member of the Nazis' coalition partner, the German National People's Party (DNVP), had actually brought a draft decree before the cabinet on the afternoon of 27 February.\n\nWhen the proposed decree was brought before the Reich Cabinet, Interior Minister Wilhelm Frick, the only Nazi in the cabinet who had a portfolio, added a clause that would allow the cabinet to take over the state governments if they failed to maintain order. Notably, the cabinet would have been allowed to do this on its own authority. Frick was well aware that the Interior portfolio had been given to the Nazis because it was almost powerless; unlike his counterparts in the rest of Europe, he had no power over the police. He saw a chance to extend his power over the states and thus begin the process of Nazifying the country.\n\nAt an emergency cabinet meeting, Hitler declared that the fire now made it a matter of \"ruthless confrontation of the KPD\"--a confrontation that could not be \"made dependent on judicial considerations.\" Though Vice Chancellor Franz von Papen objected to the clause giving the Reich cabinet the power to take over the state governments if necessary, the decree was approved. Shortly thereafter, President von Hindenburg signed the decree into law. \n\nThe decree consisted of six articles. Article 1 indefinitely suspended most of the civil liberties set forth in the Weimar Constitution, including habeas corpus, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, the right of free association and public assembly, the secrecy of the post and telephone, not to mention the protection of property and the home. Articles 2 and 3 allowed the Reich government to assume powers normally reserved for the federal states. Articles 4 and 5 established draconian penalties for certain offenses, including the death penalty for arson to public buildings. Article 6 simply stated that the decree took effect on the day of its proclamation.\n\nThe preamble and Article 1 of the Reichstag Fire Decree show the methods by which the civil rights protections of the Weimar Republic’s democratic constitution were legally abolished by the Nazis:\n\nThe decree was not accompanied by any written guidelines from the Reich government; this omission gave wide latitude in interpreting the decree to Nazis like Göring, who as Prussian interior minister was the commander of the largest police force in Germany. The \"Länder\" not yet in the Nazis’ grasp largely restricted themselves to banning the Communist press, Communist meetings and demonstrations, and detaining leading KPD officials. In Prussia, however, summary arrests of KPD leaders were common, thousands were imprisoned in the days following the fire, and the total number of arrests in Prussia on the basis of the Reichstag Fire Decree in the two weeks following 28 February is believed to be in the vicinity of 10,000. Göring had actually employed such tactics even \"before\" the decree, only to have them thrown out by the courts — a check that no longer had any effect with the decree in place.\n\nAmong the German communists arrested on the basis of the Reichstag Fire Decree was KPD chairman Ernst Thälmann; while KPD founding members Wilhelm Pieck and Walter Ulbricht — later to be leaders in postwar East Germany — were among those who escaped arrest and lived in exile.\n\nGöring issued a directive to the Prussian police authorities on 3 March, stating that in addition to the constitutional rights stripped by the decree, “all other restraints on police action imposed by Reich and State law” were abolished “so far as this is necessary … to achieve the purpose of the decree.” Göring went on to say that\nIn keeping with the purpose and aim of the decree the additional measures … will be directed against the Communists in the first instance, but then also against those who co-operate with the Communists and who support or encourage their criminal aims… I would point out that any necessary measures against members or establishments of other than Communist, anarchist or Social Democratic parties can only be justified by the decree … if they serve to help the defense against such Communist activities in the widest sense.\nWithin two weeks of the Reichstag Fire Decree taking effect, Reich Commissars were sent out to take over the other states; the heavy-handed repression that was occurring in Prussia quickly spread to the rest of the Reich.\n\nDespite the virulent rhetoric directed against the Communists, the Nazis did not formally ban the KPD right away. Not only did they fear a violent uprising, but they hoped the KPD's presence on the ballot would siphon off votes from the Social Democratic Party (SPD). However, while the KPD managed to win 81 seats, it was an open secret that the KPD deputies would never be allowed to take their seats; they were thrown in jail as quickly as the police could track them down. Increasingly, the courts treated KPD membership as an act of treason. Thus, for all intents and purposes, the KPD was banned as of 6 March, the day after the election.\n\nJust over three weeks after the passage of the Reichstag Fire Decree, Hitler’s National Socialists further tightened their grasp on Germany by the passage of the Enabling Act. This act gave Hitler’s cabinet the legal power to decree laws without being passed by the Reichstag — effectively making Hitler a dictator. Leaving nothing to chance, the Nazis did not even count the arrested KPD deputies for the purposes of determining a quorum. They also used the provisions of the Reichstag Fire Decree to detain several SPD deputies, ensuring that it would pass with two-thirds of those present and voting. As it turned out, the highly intimidating atmosphere of that Reichstag session resulted in the Enabling Act passing with enough support that it would have garnered the required supermajority even if all KPD and SPD deputies had been present.\n\nIn theory, Article 48 gave the Reichstag the power to demand the cancellation of the measures taken to enforce the Reichstag Fire Decree. However, any realistic chance of it being cancelled ended in July; by this time the other parties had either been banned outright or intimidated into dissolving themselves, and the Nazi Party had been declared the only legal party in Germany.\n\nThe Reichstag Fire Decree remained in force for the duration of the Nazi era, allowing Hitler to rule under what amounted to martial law. Along with the Enabling Act, it formed the legal basis for Hitler’s dictatorship. Thousands of Hitler’s decrees, such as those which turned Germany into a one-party state, were explicitly based on its authority, and hence on Article 48. This was a major reason Hitler never formally abolished the Weimar Constitution, though it no longer had any substantive value after the passage of the Enabling Act. It was also a major factor, combined with the broader misuse of Article 48, behind the framers of the postwar Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany opting to significantly curb the powers of the president, to the point that he has little de facto executive power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "457392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457392", "title": "Revolutionary Communist Group (UK)", "text": "Revolutionary Communist Group (UK)\n\nThe Revolutionary Communist Group (RCG) is a communist, Marxist and Leninist political organisation in the United Kingdom.\n\nAccording to its own statements, the group \"exists in order to defend and develop an anti-imperialist trend within Britain, based on the long term interests of the entire working class and oppressed internationally. We stand for the creation of a society organised both to meet the needs of the entire population, and to ensure the fullest possible development of every individual.\" Emphasising a campaign against capitalism and the oppression of the working classes, the group is also highly critical of British foreign policy, believing it to be imperialistic in nature. In particular, they criticise British control of Northern Ireland and the Falkland Islands, the involvement of British troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the British government’s support for Israel.\n\nBelieving that the British electoral system under capitalism cannot bring about any real change in society, and as it does not consider itself a party (believing that a communist party, led by a vanguard of the proletariat, has not yet developed in Britain), the RCG has not taken part in elections since 1979. The group also publish their own newspaper, which now appears every two months, entitled Fight Racism! Fight Imperialism!, which has been running since November–December 1979.\n\nThe Revolutionary Communist Group is a communist organisation. It believes that the United Kingdom is a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie (i.e., a state where the ruling upper classes control the economic and political powers to the detriment of the working classes, in this case through a representative democracy), and believe that the only real way to enact social change is for the working classes to take power in a revolution, thereby establishing a dictatorship of the proletariat (i.e., a state ruled through participatory democracy by the working classes for the benefit of the masses).\n\nWriting in 2007, the British Trotskyist group Permanent Revolution characterised the RCG's position as being \"distinctive on the British left by their open espousal of left Stalinism, which essentially consists of an uncritical support for the leadership of anti-imperialist struggles, an uncritical support for the Cuban regime, a completely undemocratic internal structure, an active participation in anti-racist struggles and complete rejection of any united front work within the British labour movement, trade unions or Labour Party.\" Group members see this as a caricature of the RCG, and instead claim that the RCG is a democratic-centralist organisation in the Leninist tradition.\n\nThe RCG believes that the United Kingdom has been an imperialist power since the end of the nineteenth century, stating that \"Britain is the oldest imperialist country in the world. It was the first to develop into finance monopoly capitalism – imperialism, and is still a major imperialist power, second only to the United States. Britain's imperialist character has been decisive in determining British economic, social and political developments.\" In this way they believe that the British state has interfered in foreign affairs, historically through the British Empire and continuing through foreign wars and corporate dominance, to the detriment to the working class masses living in these countries.\n\nThe group supports revolutionary national democratic governments in various Third and Second World countries such as the Bolivarian government of Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, and the government of Evo Morales in Bolivia. It supports socialist Cuba and the socialist government of Cuba. The RCG believes that such movements in alliance with Cuba have the ability to radically help the working class masses living in these nations, and fight against the imperialism of the United Kingdom, United States and other First World states who use them for cheap labour. As they make clear on their website, \"The resistance movements in the oppressed nations are weakening imperialism; an anti-imperialist movement in this country in unity with these struggles can deal a decisive blow against British imperialism and the British ruling class. For this reason the RCG has always given complete and unconditional support to liberation movements fighting imperialism and we support their right to carry out their struggles by any means necessary.\"\n\nThe RCG argues that socialists should not give their support to the centre/centre-left Labour Party, which is one of the major political parties in the United Kingdom. On this subject, David Yaffe stated the RCG's position that \"no anti-imperialist or socialist movement can be built unless the British left makes a fundamental and irrevocable break with the British Labour Party.\" He went on to characterise the party's policies in government as being \"openly racist, imperialist and warmongering\". At the same time it has remained critical of other socialist organisations in Britain such as the Communist Party of Great Britain, Militant, the International Marxist Group and the Socialist Workers Party for what it sees as being \"major obstacle[s]\" to the building of an anti-imperialist movement in Britain. This is because many of these groups denounced the governments of socialist states such as the Soviet Union, China and Cuba, and instead encouraged their members to vote for the Labour Party.\n\nThe RCG has been firmly critical of racism and particularly the racism of the British government and state. It has supported groups of black nationalists in the United States in their attempt to defend themselves from racist attacks. It also opposes any constraints on immigration, believing that any constraints on immigration are inherently racist in an imperialist country. It also criticises all other forms of discrimination in society, stating that \"We oppose all discrimination against anyone on grounds of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and disability.\"\n\nDeveloping in the early 1970s, the RCG grew out of the \"Revolutionary Opposition\" faction of the International Socialists (IS), (forerunners of the Socialist Workers Party), being strongly influenced by the politics of Roy Tearse. When the leading figures of the \"Revolutionary Opposition\", the name itself only first appearing in print in their appeal document, were expelled from the IS its members met to decide on their course of action, and disagreements between Tearse's allies and the majority of the faction around David Yaffe rapidly surfaced. The result was that Tearse's supporters formed the Discussion Group which led a quiet life for a number of years inside the Labour Party before dissolving. Meanwhile, Yaffe and his comrades proceeded to found the Revolutionary Communist Group in 1974.\n\nIn 1975, the RCG began publishing a theoretical journal called \"Revolutionary Communist\" in which it in part espoused a view of crisis theory, a theme they had already addressed in the IS when challenging the work of the theoreticians of that group. They developed Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels and Vladimir Lenin's analysis of the labour aristocracy, and showed its relevance for politics in the period after the Second World War. Their conclusions led them to call for no vote for the Labour Party.\n\nThe early years of the RCG saw the group lose a large part of its initial membership. For example, in September 1975 the Birmingham branch decamped in order to join the Workers' Socialist League.\nA few years after the RCG's foundation, disagreements emerged amongst its members regarding such topics as Stalinism and the South African government. One group, dominated by Frank Furedi (1947-), a sociologist at the University of Kent who used the pseudonym of \"Frank Richards\", began to argue against the views put forward by David Yaffe and his supporters. Yaffe himself later remarked that Furedi had been \"organising among a clique of middle-class members, and became their self-styled guru\". In November 1976, Furedi and his followers were expelled from the RCG, following which they went on to form their own rival organisation, the Revolutionary Communist Tendency (RCT). Soon, the RCT itself splintered, with a group calling itself the Committee for a Communist Programme (CPP) being founded by several dissenting members. Following this, the RCT went on to change its name to the Revolutionary Communist Party in 1981, and would publish the magazine \"Living Marxism\" from 1988 to 2000, in which their political position moved from Leninism to Libertarian Marxism.\n\nThe RCG recognised the progressive role played by some of the traditional communist parties such as the South African Communist Party and from that position developed into a more orthodox communist grouping supporting the socialist revolution in Cuba.\n\nWhilst many self-proclaimed socialist organisations, especially those regarding themselves as Trotskyist, in the UK welcomed the demise of the Eastern Bloc and then of the Soviet Union the RCG argued that these events were counterrevolutionary and constituted a setback in the class struggle internationally because many national liberation movements and socialist states in the Third World were supported by the Soviet Union and the Comecon. The RCG believed that while the Soviet Union was a socialist state, as a result of both internal developments in the Soviet Union itself and the reactionary role of working class parties (social democratic and communist) in the imperialist countries, the revolution degenerated and the communist party became an elite party separate from the working class. These developments laid the foundation for the counterrevolution between 1989-91.\n\nDuring the late 1970s and early 1980s, the RCG became heavily involved in support for the Irish national liberation struggle, working with the Prisoners Aid Committee, Sinn Féin and the Troops Out Movement (TOM), and focussing particularly on support for Irish republican prisoners held in British prisons. The analysis which the RCG developed through this work, on the role of national liberation movements in opposing imperialism, laid the foundations for much of its later positions, and its relationship to the rest of the British left. Unlike many other left organisations, the RCG consistently argued that British troops had no progressive role to play in Ireland, and called for total support for the Republican movement in the struggle against British imperialism. Their involvement with the prisoner support groups established a tradition of outspoken support for prison struggles which has continued to the present, with a page of every issue of their newspaper dealing with prison conditions and struggles. In 1990, when prisoners at Strangeways (see 1990 Strangeways Prison riot) took over the prison in protest at conditions, the RCG was active together with other groups supporting them on the outside, and later published a book, 'Strangeways: A Serious Disturbance', largely written by prisoners and former prisoners.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the RCG's most notable activity was its participation in the non-stop picket of the South African embassy in London calling for the release of Nelson Mandela. This was organized by the City of London Anti-Apartheid Group, within which the RCG played a leading role alongside elements of the Workers' Revolutionary Party, the Humanist Party and members of the Kitson family. City AA, as it became known, had been founded by Norma Kitson, the wife of the South African Communist activist David Kitson who served 19 years and 5 months in prison in a South African prison for his work in the National High Command of Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK), the military wing of the African National Congress.\n\nCity AA was eventually expelled by the national leadership of the Anti-Apartheid Movement, over differences centering on City Group's insistence on making the link between British support for apartheid in South Africa, and racism within Britain.\n\nAnother significant campaign during the 1980s was the Viraj Mendis Defence Campaign, against the deportation of one of the group's members to Sri Lanka. This developed into a high-profile national campaign involving people from left-wing groups such as the RCG, local residents of Manchester, and extending to church leaders and Labour Party Members of Parliament.\n\nIn 1995 the RCG set up Rock Around the Blockade (RATB), a solidarity organisation with the Cuban Revolution. As well as campaigning on issues such as the US economic blockade and the Cuban Five, and sending political solidarity brigades to Cuba, RATB raised funds to take sound systems out to Cuba. These were used with young people in cultural and political work, and the RATB has donated five sound systems over a ten-year period.\n\nIn 2001 three members were asked to leave or resign because of what were described as their reactionary ultra-left views. One example of the division was over the September 11th attacks in 2001, which the three people who left viewed as a victory against imperialism. They had previously alleged that the leadership was bureaucratic and failing to train the membership in Marxism-Leninism. The three left to form Communist Forum, often known by the name of their newsletter, \"Fightback\". They have ceased to be active.\n\nFollowing the start of the Palestinian second intifada in September 2000, in October the RCG joined a group which had begun to picket Marks and Spencer in Manchester over their support for Israel, and helped to spread this to other cities. Over the next six years pickets of Marks and Spencer were held in places including Glasgow, Edinburgh, Dundee, Newcastle, Stockton, Middlesbrough, Durham, Rochdale, Nottingham, Leicester, across London, Stratford and Brighton. Throughout this period the flagship store on Oxford Street in London was picketed weekly, and in many other places pickets were sustained on a regular basis.\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, the RCG stepped up their work in solidarity with asylum seekers, supporting the setting up of UNITY, an asylum seekers' union, in Glasgow, and helping to establish Tyneside Community Action for Refugees (TCAR) in Newcastle and Gateshead and the North West Asylum Seekers Defence Group (NWASDG) in Manchester (for a selection of reports from this period see 1, 2).\n\nIn October 2010 the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government announced cuts in state spending of £81bn, £11bn greater than the £70bn cuts which the preceding Labour government had said in autumn 2009 were necessary. There would be cuts in state benefits, central government departments and a 26% reduction in central government funding for local government. In its newspaper, the RCG said the ruling class \"has declared class war.\". The RCG adopted a slogan \"No cuts – full stop!\" It condemned Labour-run councils implementing the cuts. It described Labour councillors voting for such cuts as \"class enemies\", opposing any alliance with them against the coalition government. It criticised those on the left who sought unity at any price with such politicians.\n\nAs a part of the government cuts, the coalition announced plans to simultaneously cut much university funding and dramatically increase the tuition fees charged to students. This move led to widespread student protests taking place in November and December 2010, during which demonstrators occupied the central Jeremy Bentham Room in University College London (UCL) for several weeks. The protesting UCL students (some of whom were RCG members or supporters) organised a panel discussion to be held during which representatives from several leftist organisations (including the RCG's David Yaffe as well as figures from the Green Party of England and Wales, Socialist Appeal and Workers Power) discussed the reforms then being made by the government and university authorities to higher education in Britain.\n\nIn October 2017 the RCG posted on their website \"The Revolutionary Communist Group is aware of a historic allegation of sexual harassment by a member of the organisation. The RCG views such allegations with utmost seriousness. The comrade involved has been suspended from membership and will remain suspended until an internal enquiry completes an investigation into the matter and reports with recommendations on further action\". At the end of that year in December, the RCG updated on their website \"Following an investigation and a period of suspension, the comrade has been reinstated as of 1 January 2018. The comrade understands that his actions were unacceptable for a communist and a member of the RCG. Through the process we have undertaken, his consciousness and behaviour has changed, and continues to change to the extent that we have decided he can now be readmitted as a full member. The RCG takes seriously the sexism, discrimination and exploitation women face and is committed to building an organisation that opposes all such oppression.\"\n\nThe newspaper of the Revolutionary Communist Group, \"Fight Racism! Fight Imperialism!\" (FRFI) commemorated 25 years of publication with issue Number 182 December 2004/January 2005. The paper is still published every two months.\n\nCommenting on the reason for titling the paper as such, David Yaffe noted that it was chosen because it was in \"itself a political statement. It declares that fighting racism and imperialism must be at the heart of any socialist movement in imperialist Britain.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5001094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5001094", "title": "Security of person", "text": "Security of person\n\nSecurity of the person is a basic entitlement guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations in 1948. It is also a human right explicitly mentioned and protected by the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution of Canada, the Constitution of South Africa and other laws around the world.\n\nIn general, the right to the security of one's person is associated with liberty and includes the right, if one is imprisoned unlawfully, to a remedy such as \"habeas corpus\". Security of person can also be seen as an expansion of rights based on prohibitions of torture and cruel and unusual punishment. Rights to security of person can guard against less lethal conduct, and can be used in regard to prisoners' rights.\n\nThe right to security of the person is guaranteed by Article 3 of the \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\". In this article, it is combined with the right to life and liberty. In full, the article reads, \"Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.\"\n\nThe United Nations treaty, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966), also recognizes a right to security of person. Article 9 states that \"Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person,\" and the section prohibits \"arbitrary arrest or detention.\" The section continues, \"No one shall be deprived of his liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedure as are established by law.\"\n\nThe right to security of the person is mentioned in Article 5(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights under the heading \"Right to liberty and security\" (\"Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person. No one shall be deprived of his liberty save in the following cases and in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law\") and in Article 6 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (\"Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person\"). \n\nThe right to security of the person was recognized in Canada in the Canadian Bill of Rights in 1960. Section 1(a) of this law recognized \"the right of the individual to life, liberty, security of the person and enjoyment of property, and the right not to be deprived thereof except by due process of law.\" However, the Bill of Rights was a statute and not part of the Constitution.\n\nIn 1982, a right to security of the person was added to the Constitution. It was included in section 7 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which stipulates that \"Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of the person and the right not to be deprived thereof except in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice.\" Security of the person in section 7 consists of rights to privacy of the body and its health and of the right protecting the \"psychological integrity\" of an individual. That is, the right protects against significant government-inflicted harm (stress) to the mental state of the individual. (\"Blencoe v. B.C. (Human Rights Commission)\", 2000)\n\nThis right has generated significant case law, as abortion in Canada was legalized in \"R. v. Morgentaler\" (1988) after the Supreme Court found the Therapeutic Abortion Committees breached women's security of person by threatening their health. Some judges also felt control of the body was a right within security of the person, breached by the abortion law. In \"Operation Dismantle v. The Queen\" (1985) cruise missile testing was unsuccessfully challenged as violating security of the person for risking nuclear war. In \"Chaoulli v. Quebec (Attorney General)\" (2005), some Supreme Court justices even considered Quebec's ban on private health care to breach security of the person, since delays in medical treatment could have physical and stressful consequences.\n\nThere has been discussion within the Supreme Court and among academics as to whether security of the person also guarantees some economic rights. Theoretically, security of the person would be breached if the government limits a person's ability to make an income, by denying welfare, taking away property essential to one's profession, or denying licenses. However, section 7 is primarily concerned with legal rights, so this reading of economic rights is questionable. Many economic issues could also be political questions.\n\nIn 1996 the government of South Africa adopted a constitutional which recognized a right to security of the person in section 12. Here, it was combined with a \"right to freedom.\" Section 12 went on to define security of the person and the right to freedom more thoroughly, including within it bodily control and reproductive control, freedom from torture and cruel and unusual punishment and a right to trial. In full, section 12 reads,\n\nThe Constitution of Turkey guarantees security of person, along with the right to liberty, in Article 19, enacted in 1982 and amended in 2001. The article spells out limits to these rights in the form of rulings of courts under the law, allowing for mental institutions and institutions for addicts, extradition, etc. The article also limits arrest and detention to cases in which a judge allows it, where there is not enough time for this, or the person is seen being responsible for a crime. A person will then be told why they have been arrested, and their next of kin will also be told of the arrest. Finally, the article allows for government compensation if these rights are violated.\n\nThe New Zealand Bill of Rights Act, adopted in 1990, guarantees \"Life and security of the person\" in sections 8 through 11. Section 8 guarantees a right to life except when deprived in accordance with fundamental justice, while section 9 prohibits cruel and unusual punishment. Section 10 prohibits a person being subjected to medical treatment against his or her will. Finally, section 11 gives a New Zealander the right to not take medical treatment.\n\nSecurity of person is mentioned in Schedule I Article 5 of the Human Rights Act 1998. This version is the latest incarnation of the Act, though there have been minor edits since. This new act represents one aspect of Tony Blair's \"Constitutional Reform\".\n"}
{"id": "5602594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5602594", "title": "Sinhalisation", "text": "Sinhalisation\n\nSinhalisation is a term, derived from Sinhala, that has number of meanings in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn a sociological context it could refer to the assimilation of ethno-cultural minorities in Sri Lanka such as the Sri Lankan Tamils, Colombo Chetties and indigenous Veddas into the majority Sinhalese identity, including some Sinhala Buddhists of the interior such as the Demalagattara and some Catholics such as the Bharatha of the coastal areas of the island nation.\n\nMany noted elite families of foreign origins were supposedly Sinhalised during the pre-colonial period. (see abstract here)\n\nIn a political context it could refer to the Sinhala language-favouring policies of the post colonial governments of Sri Lanka that is considered to be a major cause of the Sri Lankan civil war. It is termed as culturo-ideological exclusivism by some when one's cultural values and norms are absolutised in such a manner that a particular way of life is enshrined as superior to all others and must therefore be adopted by others (e.g. the Tamil reaction to the perceived \"Sinhalisation\" processes of the Sri Lankan state)\n\nIt was said to be a cause of the abortive coup by disgruntled Catholic army officers in 1962.\n\nCurrently some observers note that Sri Lankan political parties such as JHU and JVP adhere to a policy of political Sinhalisation.\n\nMedias use the word \"Sinhalisation\" to refer to the process by which the Sri Lankan government funded and sponsored settlement of Sinhala people in Tamil-dominant regions in order to make Tamil as minorities. Some reports claims that the Sinhalese and Sinhala military families are settled in houses built by money from the Indian government that was intended to improve the welfare of the Tamil people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46213554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46213554", "title": "Special Permanent Committee on Institutions and Transparency", "text": "Special Permanent Committee on Institutions and Transparency\n\nThe Special Permanent Committee on Institutions and Transparency () is one of the four Special permanent committees of the Hellenic Parliament.\n\nIn the 15th legislature, the committee initially consisted of the following 13 MPs:\n\n\n\n\nIn July 2013, the committee was enlarged, now encompassing 19 members. It was joined by the following MPs:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1759397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1759397", "title": "The New Party (UK, 2003)", "text": "The New Party (UK, 2003)\n\nThe New Party was a neoliberal political party in the United Kingdom active between 2003 and 2010. The party described itself as \"a party of economic liberalism, political reform and internationalism\". It supported a smaller role for the state, a significant reduction in bureaucracy, renegotiation with the European Union and a strengthening of the special relationship with the United States.\n\nThe party was founded as the Scottish People's Alliance, standing at the 2003 Scottish Parliamentary Elections and receiving 7,718 votes (0.4%). \nThe New Party did not stand in the 2005 general election.\n\nThe New Party has its origins in the initiative \"A New Party for Britain\" launched in late 2002, at a time when speculation about the possibility of a split in the UK Conservative Party was rife, during the leadership of Iain Duncan Smith. Before the launch, the party announced in January 2003 that it planned to scrap the Scottish Parliament, and it was decried by David McLetchie, the leader of the Scottish Conservatives, as \"fascist and undemocratic.\" The party was officially launched on 14 March 2003, when the party was founded under the name , with funerals businessman Howard Hodgson as its spokesman. The launch was timed to coincide with the Conservative Party Spring Conference the next day in Harrogate. Senior figures included Jenny Ungless, Iain Duncan Smith's former chief of staff, Charlotte Kenyon, a former Conservative Party press officer, and Mark Adams, a former Conservative Party official. The head of policy in Scotland was Bruce Skivington.\n\nThe initial policy programme of the party had two main planks: direct democracy, with all legislation subject to popular referendum; and Universal Benefit, a direct payment from the state to every citizen as a replacement for the current benefits system. A reduction of the voting age to 16 was also proposed. Taxes would be cut by 3p. The pledge to scrap the Scottish parliament was dropped, but the party pledged to sell the Holyrood Scottish Parliament Building, and to reduce the number of parliamentarians, in Holyrood, Westminster and an all-elected Lords. Alan Cochrane in the \"Daily Telegraph\" commented that \"the Scottish People's Alliance appears to offer a mish-mash of policies, which are for the most part half-baked – but not all that more so than many of the offerings from parties of much longer standing. And if they get their act together in time they might well appeal. Their most immediate problem appears to be that they have not got their act together in anything like enough time.\"\n\nThe party decided to contest the Scottish Parliamentary Election in May 2003, fielding 16 candidates. However, the party received a small proportion of the vote and won no seats. This was despite the fact that two of the Peoples Alliance candidates, Lyndsay McIntosh and Keith Harding, were outgoing Conservative Members of the Scottish Parliament (MSPs). They had defected after being ranked further down the Conservative list for the election.\n\nDisappointed with its performance after spending £188,889 on the election, the party was relaunched in October 2003 with a revamped manifesto (direct democracy and Universal Benefit were dropped) and a revised statement of philosophy and principles, under the name 'The New Party'.\n\nThe party took no part in the 2004 European Parliament Elections. At the end of 2004, United Kingdom Independence Party MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk approached the New Party with a view to becoming leader. The executive declined 5 to 4, and several senior members of the New Party subsequently departed to join Kilroy-Silk's Veritas party at its launch in February 2005, including policy director Jonathan Lockhart, Richard Vass, the first party chairman of Veritas, and Patrick Eston, Kilroy-Silk's successor as leader.\n\nThe New Party did not contest the 2005 General Election.\n\nIn 2007 a member and two times local election candidate for the New Party, Stewart Dimmock, with backing from Viscount Monckton, the author of the party's first manifesto, launched a partly successful court case to seek to prevent the showing of the film \"An Inconvenient Truth\" in UK schools claiming that the film is political rather than scientific in nature. The court ruled that the film could be shown in schools only if teachers pointed out nine errors.\n\nIn July 2008 David Pinder, the national spokesman, became the party's first UK parliamentary candidate at the Haltemprice and Howden by-election, polling 135 votes.\n\nIn August 2009 Richard Vass was named leader, declaring the party's intention to contest the 2010 General Election.\n\nOn 1 July 2010, the New Party was de-registered with the Electoral Commission and is no longer able to field candidates.\n\nThe New Party describes its philosophy as follows:\nThe New Party is a party of economic liberalism, political reform and internationalism. We stand for individual freedom and personal responsibility in preference to state control. We believe that only by empowering individuals and their families to take more control of their lives can we promote a spirit of mutual responsibility and respect in society as a whole.\n\nThe New Party favours small government with a flat-tax regime and measures to increase individual freedom and self-reliance, as well as deregulation of business and industry. The party recommends wholesale reform of the welfare state with measures to reduce welfare dependency, and reduction of state control of public services, including reform of the National Health Service.\n\nThe New Party proposes various reforms of parliament, including adopting the Alternative Vote system for electing the House of Commons, an appointed and non-political House of Lords, and measures to strengthen the independence of the Civil Service.\n\nThe party regards itself as internationalist in outlook, which it interprets as support for democratic governments and human rights worldwide. The party is rather more cautious with regard to international organisations such as the European Union and the United Nations. After espousing a robust eurosceptic position, the party has latterly reverted to a more equivocal stance towards the European Union. It has also been critical of the United Nations as an undemocratic body without moral authority.\n\nIn foreign policy the party has adopted a liberal interventionist or neo-conservative approach and has been strongly supportive of the War on Terror, and British and American military intervention in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nThe most recent published policy statement of the New Party is the \"Manifesto for a World Class Nation\", published in 2005.\n\nThe party chairman, founder and chief financial backer of the New Party was Scottish millionaire businessman Robert Durward. The Party is governed by a National Policy Committee for the UK as a whole, and by a Scottish Policy Committee in Scotland.\n\nThe New Party was well-funded thanks to the financial support of its chairman, and the party had a small full-time staff from the outset, with three full-time staff at the offices at Almondvale football ground in Livingston and two at Mark Adams' office in London in 2003. Duward's company Cloburn Quarry funded the Peoples Alliance with £490,000 in 2003, and gave the New Party £284,000 in 2004, £393,000 in 2005, £135,000 in 2006, £209,093 in 2007, and £125,000 in 2008. Friends of the Earth suggested when the party launched in 2003 that the motivation for the party was Duward's opposition to a tax on the extraction of construction aggregate.\n\nSubsequent analysis of records at the Electoral Commission shows that Durward's company Cloburn was the only registered donor to The New Party during its lifetime, donating £1,382,819.88.\n\nOn 30 March 2006 Donald McDiarmid contested a local council by-election in the Borestone ward in Stirling, polling just 18 votes (1.9%).\n\nAt the local government elections in England on 4 May 2006, five New Party candidates stood in five separate local government areas in Hertfordshire, Lancashire and Yorkshire, averaging 204 votes (8.7%).\n\nIn a by-election for Dover Town Council in October 2006 Stewart Dimmock, the New Party candidate, polled 139 votes (27.0%).\n\n"}
{"id": "29736347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29736347", "title": "Timeline of airliner bombing attacks", "text": "Timeline of airliner bombing attacks\n\nCommercial passenger airliners and cargo aircraft have been the subject of plots or attacks by bombs and fire since the near the start of air travel. Many early bombings were suicides or schemes for insurance money, but in the latter part of the 20th century, assassination and political and religious militant terrorism became the dominant motive for attacking large jets. One list describes 86 cases related to airliner bombings, 53 of them resulting in deaths.\n\nThis is a chronological list of airliner bombing attacks. All entries on the list should have their own article. Explosions deemed to have not resulted from a bomb should not be included on this list. Bombings of small light aircraft and air taxis and failed bombing plots may not be notable for inclusion. Commercial airliners contracted to military use may be included on this list, but bombings of military transport aircraft should not.\n\nFor airliners brought down by gunfire or missile attacks rather than terrorist bombings or sabotage, see List of airliner shootdown incidents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31904", "title": "United Nations University", "text": "United Nations University\n\nThe (UNU), established in 1973, is the academic and research arm of the United Nations. It is headquartered in Shibuya, Tokyo, Japan, with diplomatic status as a UN institution. Since 2010, UNU has been authorized by the United Nations General Assembly to grant degrees. It also provides a bridge between the UN and the international academic, policy-making and private sector communities.\n\nThe university is headed by a rector, who holds the rank of Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations.\n\nTo date, there have been six Rectors at UNU. \nThe current Rector, since March 2013, is Dr. David M. Malone of Canada.\n\nList of Rectors of United Nations University:\nThe Council of UNU is the governing board of the University and is composed of 24 members who are appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations with the concurrence of the Director-General of UNESCO.\n\nThe University was established in 1973 and formally began its activities in 1976 following the signature of the permanent headquarters agreement between the United Nations and Japan. The creation of the United Nations University was set in motion by Secretary-General U Thant in 1969.\n\nOver the years, several Institutes of UNU were created to help with the research initiatives of the United Nations. Most notably, in 2007, a vice-rectorate was established in Bonn (UNU-ViE), Germany, as a way of strengthening UNU's presence in Europe. UNU-ViE is dedicated to developing knowledge-based sustainable solutions for global problems and is, therefore, an active organizer of international science policy dialogues for sustainability.\n\nIn December 2009, the UN General Assembly amended the UNU Charter to make it possible for UNU to \"grant and confer master's degrees and doctorates, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions under conditions laid down for that purpose in the statutes by the Council.\"\n\nIn 2013, UNU-ISP announced its intention to seek accreditation from the National Institution for Academic Degrees and University Evaluation (NIAD-UE) which is the Japanese accreditation agency for higher education institutions. UNU-IAS was formally accredited in April 2015, making it the first international organization to be recognized by the NIAD-UE.\n\nThe university has several campuses spread over five continents. Its headquarters are located at the UNU Centre in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nThe role of the UN University is to generate new knowledge, educate, enhance individual and institutional capacities, and disseminate its useful information to relevant audiences. Within the scope of these five thematic clusters, the UN University undertakes:\n\n\nAs prescribed in the United Nations University Strategic Plan 2011–2014, the 26 major topics of focus of the UN University's academic work fall within five interdependent thematic clusters:\n\nCollectively, these thematic clusters define the programme space within which the UN University undertakes its academic activities. Some key perspectives (such as gender equality, human rights and sustainability) pervade all aspects of the UN University's work.\n\nThe academic work of the United Nations University is carried out by a global system of Institutes, Operating Units, and Programmes located in more than 12 countries around the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46440600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46440600", "title": "Women's Equal Rights Law of Israel (1951)", "text": "Women's Equal Rights Law of Israel (1951)\n\nThe Women’s Equal Rights Law, 5711-1951 was passed by the First Knesset of the State of Israel in order to explicitly guarantee the equal status of men and women in the newly established state. The law was enacted three years after Executive Chairman of the World Zionist Organization and Head of the Jewish Agency for Palestine, David Ben-Gurion, issued Israel’s Declaration of Independence, which promised “complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants, irrespective of religion, race, or sex.” Since its inception, the Women’s Equal Rights Law, 5711-1951 has been met with both praise and criticism.\n\nEnglish Version of Law:\n\n\nDavid Ben-Gurion, Prime Minister\n\nPinchas Rosen, Minister of Justice\n\nChaim Weizmann, President of the State\n\nFormer Senior Deputy State Attorney for the Israeli Ministry of Justice Plea Albeck heralds the law for ensuring “most rights are enjoyed equally by men and women” and states “special provisions relating to women, for the most part, are regarded as benefits rather than disadvantages.” These “special provisions” grant women a “privileged status,” and include things such as women serve a shorter military service than men and mothers and pregnant women are exempt from service completely; married women are allowed to own and maintain property as if they were unmarried and their spouses have no claim to any profit from this property; and women are allowed to use contraceptives and seek a medical abortion without the consent of her husband. These examples of legal privileges for women are cited as positive outcomes of the Women’s Equal Rights Law. Albeck further explains in her 1972 article, “The Status of Women in Israel,” that the law is intended to both (1) ensure women share the same rights as men and (2) to preserve the special rights and privileges granted to women.\n\nWhile supporters of the law champion its provisions for ensuring special privileges for women, this section also garners criticism, as many aspects of “privileged status” come from religious law. Frances Raday, the currently head of the Concord Institute for the Study of the Absorption of International Law in Israel, explains “one of the main reasons for the demotion of the principle of equality in the Israeli legal system is deference to religious values.” The State of Israel identifies as a state that is both Jewish and Democratic, yet often finds its religious and political values at odds. Much of the criticism for the Women’s Equal Rights Law stems from the debate over religious versus secular democratic values. Pnina Lahav, researcher and professor of law at Boston University, criticizes the law for both the “maintenance of religious jurisdiction over matters of marriage and divorce and the legitimation of a privileged status for women.”\n\nCriticism for the law largely stems from the notion that rather than foster true sex equality, the law’s declaration of a “privileged status” delineates women as “separate but equal.” Although people from across the religious and political spectrum applaud the law for guaranteeing a separate status for women, critics argue that this separate status undermines female equality. The term “equal” is used it is not understood the same as the term “equal” would be in the American sense of the word. The Israeli use of the term equal implies, according to feminist intellectual Catherine MacKinnon, the “Aristotelian notion that equality entails the treatment of likes alike and un-likes differently in accordance with their unlikeness”. This interpretation of equality influences Israeli policy on gender equality and enabled the restrictive laws prohibiting women from entering combat positions in the Israeli Defense Forces. This \"separate but equal\" ideology also influenced Israel to create the Women's Corps Women's Affairs advisor as a separate unit. \n\nIsraeli Law 5711-1951 has had a lasting legacy on the state of gender equality in Israel and Palestine. It has been revised once in 2000 updating much of the language and giving greater legal authority to the law. Halakha law remains the most difficult of equality issues to navigate today in Israel, even with the updated law 5711-1951. There is no civic marriage in Israel it must be done through the religious courts (Halakha, and Sharia law). However, in 2006 Gay Marriages done abroad were recognized as fit to be registered with the Official Registry in Israel, making what basically constitutes a \"common law\" marriage.\n\nIn 1955, widowed mother of three Halima Bria, got remarried. Under Sharia Law (which she was married under and in Israel has legal authority in civil cases) a women with children who remarried was no longer seen in Israeli legal terms as the \"natural guardian\" for her very own children. She was brought to trial by her sister-in-law who was attempting to remove Halima's children from her custody. The only way in which Israeli law can trump a ruling by the religious courts (Islamic, Jewish, or Christian) is if the religious court \"intentionally\" ignored Law 5711-1951. The Israeli High Court did not side with Halima Bria and her children were removed from her custody. This case was important because it set the legal standard of allowing the various religious courts to have what amounts to near full autonomy in their rulings. This separation of civil and criminal law still is a huge obstacle for those fighting for gender equality in Israel.\nIn 1951 shortly after 5711-1951 passed in the Knesset Israel's first sex discrimination case was brought to the High Court of Justice. In this case Haim Steinberg, who was part of the ultra-orthodox Jewish sect called Neturey-Karta, refused to serve in the new Israeli Defense Forces. His argument was that if he was a women of the Neturey-Karta sect he would be given a religious deferment, but because he was a man he was being denied that \"right\". The court rejected his appeal not because he was a man but on the grounds that his sect did not recognize the state of Israel as being legitimate or having any legal authority. This set important legal precedent for future cases of gender discrimination in the armed forces. It also put into layman's terms the Israel policy of favoring men in their military over women. Israel had/has many loopholes and ways for a women not wishing to serve to take, few such avenues are available for men in Israel.\nWas a Law that was amended in 1999 to allow all women access to any position in the Defense Forces that they qualify for. The Law stipulates that both men and women must perform military service for their country, however it is still far easier for a women to be exempted then it is for a man. Women can still be exempted for their own religious or conscientious reasons. They are then supposed to substitute military service for \"national service\" for their required two years, although this seems to be rarely implemented. Men are subjected to the IDF's discretion if they are allowed to be exempted or not.The only exception being those studying to be rabbis at the country's various yeshivas. These of course are male only and yet another source for dissatisfaction among those demanding gender equality in Israel.\n\n"}
