{"id": "1208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1208", "title": "Alan Turing", "text": "Alan Turing\n\nAlan Mathison Turing (; 23 June 1912 – 7 June 1954) was an English mathematician, computer scientist, logician, cryptanalyst, philosopher, and theoretical biologist. Turing was highly influential in the development of theoretical computer science, providing a formalisation of the concepts of algorithm and computation with the Turing machine, which can be considered a model of a general-purpose computer. Turing is widely considered to be the father of theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence. Despite these accomplishments, he was never fully recognized in his home country during his lifetime due to his homosexuality, which was then a crime in the UK.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Turing worked for the Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS) at Bletchley Park, Britain's codebreaking centre that produced Ultra intelligence. For a time he led Hut 8, the section that was responsible for German naval cryptanalysis. Here he devised a number of techniques for speeding the breaking of German ciphers, including improvements to the pre-war Polish bombe method, an electromechanical machine that could find settings for the Enigma machine. Turing played a pivotal role in cracking intercepted coded messages that enabled the Allies to defeat the Nazis in many crucial engagements, including the Battle of the Atlantic, and in so doing helped win the war. Counterfactual history is difficult with respect to the effect Ultra intelligence had on the length of the war, but at the upper end it has been estimated that this work shortened the war in Europe by more than two years and saved over 14 million lives.\n\nAfter the war, Turing worked at the National Physical Laboratory, where he designed the ACE, among the first designs for a stored-program computer. In 1948 Turing joined Max Newman's Computing Machine Laboratory at the Victoria University of Manchester, where he helped develop the Manchester computers and became interested in mathematical biology. He wrote a paper on the chemical basis of morphogenesis and predicted oscillating chemical reactions such as the Belousov–Zhabotinsky reaction, first observed in the 1960s.\n\nTuring was prosecuted in 1952 for homosexual acts, when by the Labouchere Amendment, \"gross indecency\" was a criminal offence in the UK. He accepted chemical castration treatment, with DES, as an alternative to prison. Turing died in 1954, 16 days before his 42nd birthday, from cyanide poisoning. An inquest determined his death as suicide, but it has been noted that the known evidence is also consistent with accidental poisoning. In 2009, following an Internet campaign, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown made an official public apology on behalf of the British government for \"the appalling way he was treated\". Queen Elizabeth II granted him a posthumous pardon in 2013. The Alan Turing law is now an informal term for a 2017 law in the United Kingdom that retroactively pardoned men cautioned or convicted under historical legislation that outlawed homosexual acts.\n\nTuring was born in Maida Vale, London, while his father, Julius Mathison Turing (1873–1947), was on leave from his position with the Indian Civil Service (ICS) at Chatrapur, then in the Madras Presidency and presently in Odisha state, in British India. Turing's father was the son of a clergyman, the Rev. John Robert Turing, from a Scottish family of merchants that had been based in the Netherlands and included a baronet. Turing's mother, Julius' wife, was Ethel Sara Turing (née Stoney 1881–1976), daughter of Edward Waller Stoney, chief engineer of the Madras Railways. The Stoneys were a Protestant Anglo-Irish gentry family from both County Tipperary and County Longford, while Ethel herself had spent much of her childhood in County Clare.\n\nJulius' work with the ICS brought the family to British India, where his grandfather had been a general in the Bengal Army. However, both Julius and Ethel wanted their children to be brought up in Britain, so they moved to Maida Vale, London, where Alan Turing was born on 23 June 1912, as recorded by a blue plaque on the outside of the house of his birth, later the Colonnade Hotel. Turing had an elder brother, John (the father of Sir John Dermot Turing, 12th Baronet of the Turing baronets).\n\nTuring's father's civil service commission was still active and during Turing's childhood years Turing's parents travelled between Hastings in England and India, leaving their two sons to stay with a retired Army couple. At Hastings, Turing stayed at Baston Lodge, Upper Maze Hill, St Leonards-on-Sea, now marked with a blue plaque. The plaque was unveiled on 23 June 2012, the centenary of Turing's birth.\n\nVery early in life, Turing showed signs of the genius that he was later to display prominently. His parents purchased a house in Guildford in 1927, and Turing lived there during school holidays. The location is also marked with a blue plaque.\n\nTuring's parents enrolled him at St Michael's, a day school at 20 Charles Road, St Leonards-on-Sea, at the age of six. The headmistress recognised his talent early on, as did many of his subsequent teachers.\n\nBetween January 1922 and 1926, Turing was educated at Hazelhurst Preparatory School, an independent school in the village of Frant in Sussex (now East Sussex). In 1926, at the age of 13, he went on to Sherborne School, a boarding independent school in the market town of Sherborne in Dorset. The first day of term coincided with the 1926 General Strike in Britain, but he was so determined to attend, that he rode his bicycle unaccompanied from Southampton to Sherborne, stopping overnight at an inn.\n\nTuring's natural inclination towards mathematics and science did not earn him respect from some of the teachers at Sherborne, whose definition of education placed more emphasis on the classics. His headmaster wrote to his parents: \"I hope he will not fall between two stools. If he is to stay at public school, he must aim at becoming \"educated\". If he is to be solely a \"Scientific Specialist\", he is wasting his time at a public school\". Despite this, Turing continued to show remarkable ability in the studies he loved, solving advanced problems in 1927 without having studied even elementary calculus. In 1928, aged 16, Turing encountered Albert Einstein's work; not only did he grasp it, but it is possible that he managed to deduce Einstein's questioning of Newton's laws of motion from a text in which this was never made explicit.\n\nAt Sherborne, Turing formed a significant friendship with fellow pupil Christopher Morcom (13 July 1911-13 February 1930), who has been described as Turing's \"first love\". Their relationship provided inspiration in Turing's future endeavours, but it was cut short by Morcom's death, in February 1930, from complications of bovine tuberculosis, contracted after drinking infected cow's milk some years previously.\n\nThe event caused Turing great sorrow. He coped with his grief by working that much harder on the topics of science and mathematics that he had shared with Morcom. In a letter to Morcom's mother Turing said:I am sure I could not have found anywhere another companion so brilliant and yet so charming and unconceited. I regarded my interest in my work, and in such things as astronomy (to which he introduced me) as something to be shared with him and I think he felt a little the same about me ... I know I must put as much energy if not as much interest into my work as if he were alive, because that is what he would like me to do.\n\nSome have speculated that Morcom's death was the cause of Turing's atheism and materialism. Apparently, at this point in his life he still believed in such concepts as a spirit, independent of the body and surviving death. In a later letter, also written to Morcom's mother, Turing said: Personally, I believe that spirit is really eternally connected with matter but certainly not by the same kind of body ... as regards the actual connection between spirit and body I consider that the body [can] hold on to a 'spirit', whilst the body is alive and awake the two are firmly connected. When the body is asleep I cannot guess what happens but when the body dies, the 'mechanism' of the body, holding the spirit is gone and the spirit finds a new body sooner or later, perhaps immediately.\n\nAfter Sherborne, Turing studied as an undergraduate from 1931 to 1934 at King's College, Cambridge, where he was awarded first-class honours in mathematics. In 1935, at the age of 22, he was elected a fellow of King's on the strength of a dissertation in which he proved the central limit theorem. Unknown to the committee, the theorem had already been proven, in 1922, by Jarl Waldemar Lindeberg.\n\nIn 1936, Turing published his paper \"On Computable Numbers, with an Application to the Entscheidungsproblem\" (1936). In this paper, Turing reformulated Kurt Gödel's 1931 results on the limits of proof and computation, replacing Gödel's universal arithmetic-based formal language with the formal and simple hypothetical devices that became known as Turing machines. The \"Entscheidungsproblem\" (decision problem) was originally posed by German mathematician David Hilbert in 1928. Turing proved that his \"universal computing machine\" would be capable of performing any conceivable mathematical computation if it were representable as an algorithm. He went on to prove that there was no solution to the \"decision problem\" by first showing that the halting problem for Turing machines is undecidable: It is not possible to decide algorithmically whether a Turing machine will ever halt.\nAlthough Turing's proof was published shortly after Alonzo Church's equivalent proof using his lambda calculus, Turing's approach is considerably more accessible and intuitive than Church's. It also included a notion of a 'Universal Machine' (now known as a universal Turing machine), with the idea that such a machine could perform the tasks of any other computation machine (as indeed could Church's lambda calculus). According to the Church–Turing thesis, Turing machines and the lambda calculus are capable of computing anything that is computable. John von Neumann acknowledged that the central concept of the modern computer was due to Turing's paper. To this day, Turing machines are a central object of study in theory of computation.\n\nFrom September 1936 to July 1938, Turing spent most of his time studying under Church at Princeton University, in the second year as a Jane Eliza Procter Visiting Fellow. In addition to his purely mathematical work, he studied cryptology and also built three of four stages of an electro-mechanical binary multiplier. In June 1938, he obtained his PhD from the Department of Mathematics at Princeton; his dissertation, \"Systems of Logic Based on Ordinals\", introduced the concept of ordinal logic and the notion of relative computing, where Turing machines are augmented with so-called oracles, allowing the study of problems that cannot be solved by Turing machines. John von Neumann wanted to hire him as his postdoctoral assistant, but he went back to England.\n\nWhen Turing returned to Cambridge, he attended lectures given in 1939 by Ludwig Wittgenstein about the foundations of mathematics. The lectures have been reconstructed verbatim, including interjections from Turing and other students, from students' notes. Turing and Wittgenstein argued and disagreed, with Turing defending formalism and Wittgenstein propounding his view that mathematics does not discover any absolute truths, but rather invents them.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Turing was a leading participant in the breaking of German ciphers at Bletchley Park. The historian and wartime codebreaker Asa Briggs has said, \"You needed exceptional talent, you needed genius at Bletchley and Turing's was that genius.\"\nFrom September 1938, Turing had been working part-time with the GC&CS, the British codebreaking organisation. He concentrated on cryptanalysis of the Enigma with Dilly Knox, a senior GC&CS codebreaker. Soon after the July 1939 Warsaw meeting at which the Polish Cipher Bureau had provided the British and French with the details of the wiring of Enigma rotors and their method of decrypting Enigma code messages, Turing and Knox started to work on a less fragile approach to the problem. The Polish method relied on an insecure indicator procedure that the Germans were likely to change, which they did in May 1940. Turing's approach was more general, using crib-based decryption for which he produced the functional specification of the bombe (an improvement of the Polish Bomba).\n\nOn 4 September 1939, the day after the UK declared war on Germany, Turing reported to Bletchley Park, the wartime station of GC&CS.\nSpecifying the bombe was the first of five major cryptanalytical advances that Turing made during the war. The others were: deducing the indicator procedure used by the German navy; developing a statistical procedure for making much more efficient use of the bombes dubbed \"Banburismus\"; developing a procedure for working out the cam settings of the wheels of the Lorenz SZ 40/42 (\"Tunny\") dubbed \"Turingery\" and, towards the end of the war, the development of a portable secure voice scrambler at Hanslope Park that was codenamed \"Delilah\".\n\nBy using statistical techniques to optimise the trial of different possibilities in the code breaking process, Turing made an innovative contribution to the subject. He wrote two papers discussing mathematical approaches, titled \"The Applications of Probability to Cryptography\" and \"Paper on Statistics of Repetitions\", which were of such value to GC&CS and its successor GCHQ that they were not released to the UK National Archives until April 2012, shortly before the centenary of his birth. A GCHQ mathematician, \"who identified himself only as Richard,\" said at the time that the fact that the contents had been restricted for some 70 years demonstrated their importance, and their relevance to post-war cryptanalysis: \n\nTuring had a reputation for eccentricity at Bletchley Park. He was known to his colleagues as \"Prof\" and his treatise on Enigma was known as the \"Prof's Book\". According to historian Ronald Lewin, Jack Good, a cryptanalyst who worked with Turing, said of his colleague:\n\nWhile working at Bletchley, Turing, who was a talented long-distance runner, occasionally ran the to London when he was needed for meetings, and he was capable of world-class marathon standards. Turing tried out for the 1948 British Olympic team, hampered by an injury. His tryout time for the marathon was only 11 minutes slower than British silver medallist Thomas Richards' Olympic race time of 2 hours 35 minutes. He was Walton Athletic Club's best runner, a fact discovered when he passed the group while running alone.\n\nIn 1946, Turing was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) by King George VI for his wartime services, but his work remained secret for many years.\n\nWithin weeks of arriving at Bletchley Park, Turing had specified an electromechanical machine called the bombe, which could break Enigma more effectively than the Polish \"bomba kryptologiczna\", from which its name was derived. The bombe, with an enhancement suggested by mathematician Gordon Welchman, became one of the primary tools, and the major automated one, used to attack Enigma-enciphered messages.\n\nThe bombe searched for possible correct settings used for an Enigma message (i.e., rotor order, rotor settings and plugboard settings) using a suitable \"crib\": a fragment of probable plaintext. For each possible setting of the rotors (which had on the order of 10 states, or 10 states for the four-rotor U-boat variant), the bombe performed a chain of logical deductions based on the crib, implemented electromechanically.\n\nThe bombe detected when a contradiction had occurred and ruled out that setting, moving on to the next. Most of the possible settings would cause contradictions and be discarded, leaving only a few to be investigated in detail. A contradiction would occur when an enciphered letter would be turned back into the same plaintext letter, which was impossible with the Enigma. The first bombe was installed on 18 March 1940.\n\nBy late 1941, Turing and his fellow cryptanalysts Gordon Welchman, Hugh Alexander and Stuart Milner-Barry were frustrated. Building on the work of the Poles, they had set up a good working system for decrypting Enigma signals, but their limited staff and bombes meant they could not translate all the signals. In the summer, they had considerable success, and shipping losses had fallen to under 100,000 tons a month; however, they badly needed more resources to keep abreast of German adjustments. They had tried to get more people and fund more bombes through the proper channels, but had failed.\n\nOn 28 October they wrote directly to Winston Churchill explaining their difficulties, with Turing as the first named. They emphasised how small their need was compared with the vast expenditure of men and money by the forces and compared with the level of assistance they could offer to the forces. As Andrew Hodges, biographer of Turing, later wrote, \"This letter had an electric effect.\" Churchill wrote a memo to General Ismay, which read: \"ACTION THIS DAY. Make sure they have all they want on extreme priority and report to me that this has been done.\" On 18 November, the chief of the secret service reported that every possible measure was being taken. The cryptographers at Bletchley Park did not know of the Prime Minister's response, but as Milner-Barry recalled, \"All that we did notice was that almost from that day the rough ways began miraculously to be made smooth.\" More than two hundred bombes were in operation by the end of the war.\n\nTuring decided to tackle the particularly difficult problem of German naval Enigma \"because no one else was doing anything about it and I could have it to myself\". In December 1939, Turing solved the essential part of the naval indicator system, which was more complex than the indicator systems used by the other services.\n\nThat same night, he also conceived of the idea of \"Banburismus\", a sequential statistical technique (what Abraham Wald later called sequential analysis) to assist in breaking the naval Enigma, \"though I was not sure that it would work in practice, and was not, in fact, sure until some days had actually broken.\" For this, he invented a measure of weight of evidence that he called the \"ban\". \"Banburismus\" could rule out certain sequences of the Enigma rotors, substantially reducing the time needed to test settings on the bombes.\n\nTuring travelled to the United States in November 1942 and worked with US Navy cryptanalysts on the naval Enigma and bombe construction in Washington; he also visited their Computing Machine Laboratory in Dayton, Ohio.\n\nTuring's reaction to the American bombe design was far from enthusiastic:\nDuring this trip, he also assisted at Bell Labs with the development of secure speech devices. He returned to Bletchley Park in March 1943. During his absence, Hugh Alexander had officially assumed the position of head of Hut 8, although Alexander had been \"de facto\" head for some time (Turing having little interest in the day-to-day running of the section). Turing became a general consultant for cryptanalysis at Bletchley Park.\n\nAlexander wrote of Turing's contribution:\nIn July 1942, Turing devised a technique termed \"Turingery\" (or jokingly \"Turingismus\") for use against the Lorenz cipher messages produced by the Germans' new \"Geheimschreiber\" (secret writer) machine. This was a teleprinter rotor cipher attachment codenamed \"Tunny\" at Bletchley Park. Turingery was a method of \"wheel-breaking\", i.e., a procedure for working out the cam settings of Tunny's wheels. He also introduced the Tunny team to Tommy Flowers who, under the guidance of Max Newman, went on to build the Colossus computer, the world's first programmable digital electronic computer, which replaced a simpler prior machine (the Heath Robinson), and whose superior speed allowed the statistical decryption techniques to be applied usefully to the messages. Some have mistakenly said that Turing was a key figure in the design of the Colossus computer. Turingery and the statistical approach of Banburismus undoubtedly fed into the thinking about cryptanalysis of the Lorenz cipher, but he was not directly involved in the Colossus development.\n\nFollowing his work at Bell Labs in the US, Turing pursued the idea of electronic enciphering of speech in the telephone system, and in the latter part of the war, he moved to work for the Secret Service's Radio Security Service (later HMGCC) at Hanslope Park. There he further developed his knowledge of electronics with the assistance of engineer Donald Bayley. Together they undertook the design and construction of a portable secure voice communications machine codenamed \"Delilah\". It was intended for different applications, lacking capability for use with long-distance radio transmissions, and in any case, Delilah was completed too late to be used during the war. Though the system worked fully, with Turing demonstrating it to officials by encrypting and decrypting a recording of a Winston Churchill speech, Delilah was not adopted for use. Turing also consulted with Bell Labs on the development of SIGSALY, a secure voice system that was used in the later years of the war.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1947, Turing lived in Hampton, London, while he worked on the design of the ACE (Automatic Computing Engine) at the National Physical Laboratory (NPL). He presented a paper on 19 February 1946, which was the first detailed design of a stored-program computer. Von Neumann's incomplete \"First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC\" had predated Turing's paper, but it was much less detailed and, according to John R. Womersley, Superintendent of the NPL Mathematics Division, it \"contains a number of ideas which are Dr. Turing's own\". Although ACE was a feasible design, the secrecy surrounding the wartime work at Bletchley Park led to delays in starting the project and he became disillusioned. In late 1947 he returned to Cambridge for a sabbatical year during which he produced a seminal work on \"Intelligent Machinery\" that was not published in his lifetime. While he was at Cambridge, the Pilot ACE was being built in his absence. It executed its first program on 10 May 1950, and a number of later computers around the world owe much to it, including the English Electric DEUCE and the American Bendix G-15. The full version of Turing's ACE was not built until after his death.\n\nAccording to the memoirs of the German computer pioneer Heinz Billing from the Max Planck Institute for Physics, published by Genscher, Düsseldorf, there was a meeting between Turing and Konrad Zuse. It took place in Göttingen in 1947. The interrogation had the form of a colloquium. Participants were Womersley, Turing, Porter from England and a few German researchers like Zuse, Walther, and Billing (for more details see Herbert Bruderer, \"Konrad Zuse und die Schweiz\").\n\nTuring was appointed Reader in the Mathematics Department at the Victoria University of Manchester in 1948 and in 1949, became Deputy Director of the Computing Machine Laboratory there, working on software for one of the earliest stored-program computers—the Manchester Mark 1. During this time he continued to do more abstract work in mathematics,<ref name=\"doi10.1093/qjmam/1.1.287\"></ref> and in \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\" (\"Mind\", October 1950), Turing addressed the problem of artificial intelligence, and proposed an experiment that became known as the Turing test, an attempt to define a standard for a machine to be called \"intelligent\". The idea was that a computer could be said to \"think\" if a human interrogator could not tell it apart, through conversation, from a human being. In the paper, Turing suggested that rather than building a program to simulate the adult mind, it would be better rather to produce a simpler one to simulate a child's mind and then to subject it to a course of education. A reversed form of the Turing test is widely used on the Internet; the CAPTCHA test is intended to determine whether the user is a human or a computer.\n\nIn 1948 Turing, working with his former undergraduate colleague, D. G. Champernowne, began writing a chess program for a computer that did not yet exist. By 1950, the program was completed and dubbed the Turbochamp. In 1952, he tried to implement it on a Ferranti Mark 1, but lacking enough power, the computer was unable to execute the program. Instead, Turing \"ran\" the program by flipping through the pages of the algorithm and carrying out its instructions on a chessboard, taking about half an hour per move. The game was recorded. According to Garry Kasparov, Turing's program \"played a recognizable game of chess.\" The program lost to Turing's colleague Alick Glennie, although it is said that it won a game against Champernowne's wife,\nIsabel.\n\nHis Turing test was a significant, characteristically provocative, and lasting contribution to the debate regarding artificial intelligence, which continues after more than half a century. He also invented the LU decomposition method in 1948, used today for solving matrix equations.\n\nIn 1951, when Turing was 39 years old, he turned to mathematical biology, finally publishing his masterpiece \"The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis\" in January 1952. He was interested in morphogenesis, the development of patterns and shapes in biological organisms. Among other things, he wanted to understand Fibonacci phyllotaxis, the existence of Fibonacci numbers in plant structures. He suggested that a system of chemicals reacting with each other and diffusing across space, termed a reaction-diffusion system, could account for \"the main phenomena of morphogenesis\". He used systems of partial differential equations to model catalytic chemical reactions. For example, if a catalyst A is required for a certain chemical reaction to take place, and if the reaction produced more of the catalyst A, then we say that the reaction is autocatalytic, and there is positive feedback that can be modelled by nonlinear differential equations. Turing discovered that patterns could be created if the chemical reaction not only produced catalyst A, but also produced an inhibitor B that slowed down the production of A. If A and B then diffused through the container at different rates, then you could have some regions where A dominated and some where B did. To calculate the extent of this, Turing would have needed a powerful computer, but these were not so freely available in 1951, so he had to use linear approximations to solve the equations by hand. These calculations gave the right qualitative results, and produced, for example, a uniform mixture that oddly enough had regularly spaced fixed red spots. The Russian biochemist Boris Belousov had performed experiments with similar results, but could not get his papers published because of the contemporary prejudice that any such thing violated the second law of thermodynamics. Belousov was not aware of Turing's paper in the \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\".\n\nAlthough published before the structure and role of DNA was understood, Turing's work on morphogenesis remains relevant today, and is considered a seminal piece of work in mathematical biology. One of the early applications of Turing's paper was the work by James Murray explaining spots and stripes on the fur of cats, large and small. Further research in the area suggests that Turing's work can partially explain the growth of \"feathers, hair follicles, the branching pattern of lungs, and even the left-right asymmetry that puts the heart on the left side of the chest.\" In 2012, Sheth, et al. found that in mice, removal of Hox genes causes an increase in the number of digits without an increase in the overall size of the limb, suggesting that Hox genes control digit formation by tuning the wavelength of a Turing-type mechanism. Later papers were not available until \"Collected Works of A. M. Turing\" was published in 1992.\n\nIn 1941, Turing proposed marriage to Hut 8 colleague Joan Clarke, a fellow mathematician and cryptanalyst, but their engagement was short-lived. After admitting his homosexuality to his fiancée, who was reportedly \"unfazed\" by the revelation, Turing decided that he could not go through with the marriage.\n\nIn January 1952, Turing, then 39, started a relationship with Arnold Murray, a 19-year-old unemployed man. Turing had met Murray just before Christmas outside the Regal Cinema when walking down Manchester's Oxford Road and invited him to lunch. On 23 January, Turing's house was burgled. Murray told Turing that the burglar was an acquaintance of his, and Turing reported the crime to the police. During the investigation he acknowledged a sexual relationship with Murray. Homosexual acts were criminal offences in the United Kingdom at that time, and both men were charged with \"gross indecency\" under Section 11 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885. Initial committal proceedings for the trial were held on 27 February during which Turing's solicitor \"reserved his defence\", i.e., did not argue or provide evidence against the allegations.\n\nLater, convinced by the advice of his brother and his own solicitor, Turing entered a plea of guilty. The case, \"Regina v. Turing and Murray,\" was brought to trial on 31 March 1952. Turing was convicted and given a choice between imprisonment and probation, which would be conditional on his agreement to undergo hormonal treatment designed to reduce libido. He accepted the option of treatment via injections of what was then called stilboestrol (now known as diethylstilbestrol or DES), a synthetic oestrogen; this treatment was continued for the course of one year. The treatment rendered Turing impotent and caused gynaecomastia, fulfilling in the literal sense Turing's prediction that \"no doubt I shall emerge from it all a different man, but quite who I've not found out\". Murray was given a conditional discharge.\n\nTuring's conviction led to the removal of his security clearance and barred him from continuing with his cryptographic consultancy for the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), the British signals intelligence agency that had evolved from GC&CS in 1946, though he kept his academic job. He was denied entry into the United States after his conviction in 1952, but was free to visit other European countries. Turing was never accused of espionage but, in common with all who had worked at Bletchley Park, he was prevented by the Official Secrets Act from discussing his war work.\n\nOn 8 June 1954, Turing's housekeeper found him dead. He had died the previous day. A post-mortem examination established that the cause of death was cyanide poisoning. When his body was discovered, an apple lay half-eaten beside his bed, and although the apple was not tested for cyanide, it was speculated that this was the means by which a fatal dose was consumed. An inquest determined that he had committed suicide, and he was cremated at Woking Crematorium on 12 June 1954. Turing's ashes were scattered there, just as his father's had been. Andrew Hodges and another biographer, David Leavitt, have both suggested that Turing was re-enacting a scene from the Walt Disney film \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" (1937), his favourite fairy tale, both noting that (in Leavitt's words) he took \"an especially keen pleasure in the scene where the Wicked Queen immerses her apple in the poisonous brew.\"\n\nPhilosophy professor Jack Copeland has questioned various aspects of the coroner's historical verdict. He suggests an alternative explanation for the cause of Turing's death, this being the accidental inhalation of cyanide fumes from an apparatus for electroplating gold onto spoons, which uses potassium cyanide to dissolve the gold. Turing had such an apparatus set up in his tiny spare room. Copeland notes that the autopsy findings were more consistent with inhalation than with ingestion of the poison. Turing also habitually ate an apple before bed, and it was not unusual for it to be discarded half-eaten. In addition, Turing had reportedly borne his legal setbacks and hormone treatment (which had been discontinued a year previously) \"with good humour\" and had shown no sign of despondency prior to his death, even setting down a list of tasks he intended to complete upon return to his office after the holiday weekend. Turing's mother believed that the ingestion was accidental, resulting from her son's careless storage of laboratory chemicals. Biographer Andrew Hodges suggests Turing arranged the delivery of the equipment to deliberately allow his mother plausible deniability regarding any suicide claims.\n\nIn August 2009, British programmer John Graham-Cumming started a petition urging the British government to apologise for Turing's prosecution as a homosexual. The petition received more than 30,000 signatures. The Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, acknowledged the petition, releasing a statement on 10 September 2009 apologising and describing the treatment of Turing as \"appalling\":\nIn December 2011, William Jones created an e-petition requesting that the British government pardon Turing for his conviction of \"gross indecency\":\nThe petition gathered over 37,000 signatures, and was supported by Manchester MP John Leech but the request was discouraged by Justice Minister Lord McNally, who said:\nJohn Leech, the MP for Manchester Withington (2005–15), submitted several bills to Parliament and campaigned with Jones to secure the pardon. Leech made the case in the House of Commons that Turing's contribution to the war made him a national hero and that it was \"ultimately just embarrassing\" that the conviction still stood. Leech continued to take the bill through Parliament and campaigned for several years until it was passed.\n\nAt the UK premiere of a film based on Turing's life, \"The Imitation Game\", the producers thanked Leech for bringing the topic to public attention and securing Turing's pardon. His campaign turned to acquiring pardons for the 75,000 other men convicted of the same crime. Leech's campaign gained public support from leading scientists, including Stephen Hawking.\n\nOn 26 July 2012, a bill was introduced in the House of Lords to grant a statutory pardon to Turing for offences under section 11 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885, of which he was convicted on 31 March 1952. Late in the year in a letter to \"The Daily Telegraph\", the physicist Stephen Hawking and 10 other signatories including the Astronomer Royal Lord Rees, President of the Royal Society Sir Paul Nurse, Lady Trumpington (who worked for Turing during the war) and Lord Sharkey (the bill's sponsor) called on Prime Minister David Cameron to act on the pardon request. The government indicated it would support the bill, and it passed its third reading in the Lords in October.\n\nAt the bill's second reading in the House of Commons on 29 November 2013, Conservative MP Christopher Chope objected to the bill, delaying its passage. The bill was due to return to the House of Commons on 28 February 2014, but before the bill could be debated in the House of Commons, the government elected to proceed under the royal prerogative of mercy. On 24 December 2013, Queen Elizabeth II signed a pardon for Turing's conviction for \"gross indecency\", with immediate effect. Announcing the pardon, Lord Chancellor Chris Grayling said Turing deserved to be \"remembered and recognised for his fantastic contribution to the war effort\" and not for his later criminal conviction. The Queen officially pronounced Turing pardoned in August 2014. The Queen's action is only the fourth royal pardon granted since the conclusion of the Second World War. Pardons are normally granted only when the person is technically innocent, and a request has been made by the family or other interested party; neither condition was met in regard to Turing's conviction.\n\nIn a letter to the Prime Minister, David Cameron, human rights advocate Peter Tatchell criticised the decision to single out Turing due to his fame and achievements when thousands of others convicted under the same law have not received pardons. Tatchell also called for a new investigation into Turing's death:\n\nIn September 2016, the government announced its intention to expand this retroactive exoneration to other men convicted of similar historical indecency offences, in what was described as an \"Alan Turing law\". The Alan Turing law is now an informal term for the law in the United Kingdom, contained in the Policing and Crime Act 2017, which serves as an amnesty law to retroactively pardon men who were cautioned or convicted under historical legislation that outlawed homosexual acts. The law applies in England and Wales.\n\nTuring was appointed to the Order of the British Empire 1946. He was also elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1951. Several things are named in his honour:\n\nVarious institutions have paid tribute to Turing by naming things after him including:\n\nA biography published by the Royal Society shortly after Turing's death, while his wartime work was still subject to the Official Secrets Act, recorded:\n\nSince 1966, the Turing Award has been given annually by the Association for Computing Machinery for technical or theoretical contributions to the computing community. It is widely considered to be the computing world's highest honour, equivalent to the Nobel Prize.\n\nOn 23 June 1998, on what would have been Turing's 86th birthday, his biographer, Andrew Hodges, unveiled an official English Heritage blue plaque at his birthplace and childhood home in Warrington Crescent, London, later the Colonnade Hotel. To mark the 50th anniversary of his death, a memorial plaque was unveiled on 7 June 2004 at his former residence, Hollymeade, in Wilmslow, Cheshire.\n\nOn 13 March 2000, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines issued a set of postage stamps to celebrate the greatest achievements of the 20th century, one of which carries a portrait of Turing against a background of repeated 0s and 1s, and is captioned: \"1937: Alan Turing's theory of digital computing\". On 1 April 2003, Turing's work at Bletchley Park was named an IEEE Milestone. On 28 October 2004, a bronze statue of Turing sculpted by John W. Mills was unveiled at the University of Surrey in Guildford, marking the 50th anniversary of Turing's death; it portrays him carrying his books across the campus.\n\nTuring was one of four mathematicians examined in the BBC documentary entitled \"Dangerous Knowledge\" (2008). The \"Princeton Alumni Weekly\" named Turing the second most significant alumnus in the history of Princeton University, second only to President James Madison. A 1.5-ton, life-size statue of Turing was unveiled on 19 June 2007 at Bletchley Park. Built from approximately half a million pieces of Welsh slate, it was sculpted by Stephen Kettle, having been commissioned by the American billionaire Sidney Frank.\n\nTuring has been honoured in various ways in Manchester, the city where he worked towards the end of his life. In 1994, a stretch of the A6010 road (the Manchester city intermediate ring road) was named \"Alan Turing Way\". A bridge carrying this road was widened, and carries the name Alan Turing Bridge. A statue of Turing was unveiled in Manchester on 23 June 2001 in Sackville Park, between the University of Manchester building on Whitworth Street and Canal Street. The memorial statue depicts the \"father of computer science\" sitting on a bench at a central position in the park. Turing is shown holding an apple. The cast bronze bench carries in relief the text 'Alan Mathison Turing 1912–1954', and the motto 'Founder of Computer Science' as it could appear if encoded by an Enigma machine: 'IEKYF ROMSI ADXUO KVKZC GUBJ'. However, the meaning of the coded message is disputed, as the 'u' in 'computer' matches up with the 'u' in 'ADXUO'. As a letter encoded by an enigma machine can not appear as itself, the actual message behind the code is uncertain.\n\nA plaque at the statue's feet reads 'Father of computer science, mathematician, logician, wartime codebreaker, victim of prejudice'. There is also a Bertrand Russell quotation: \"Mathematics, rightly viewed, possesses not only truth, but supreme beauty—a beauty cold and austere, like that of sculpture.\" The sculptor buried his own old Amstrad computer under the plinth as a tribute to \"the godfather of all modern computers\".\n\nIn 1999, \"Time\" magazine named Turing as one of the and stated, \"The fact remains that everyone who taps at a keyboard, opening a spreadsheet or a word-processing program, is working on an incarnation of a Turing machine.\"\n\nIn 2002, Turing was ranked twenty-first on the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons following a UK-wide vote. In 2006, British writer and mathematician Ioan James chose Turing as one of twenty people to feature in his book about famous historical figures who may have had some of the traits of Asperger syndrome. In 2010, actor/playwright Jade Esteban Estrada portrayed Turing in the solo musical, \"ICONS: The Lesbian and Gay History of the World, Vol. 4\". In 2011, in \"The Guardian\"s \"My hero\" series, writer Alan Garner chose Turing as his hero and described how they had met while out jogging in the early 1950s. Garner remembered Turing as \"funny and witty\" and said that he \"talked endlessly\". In 2006, Turing was named with online resources as an LGBT History Month Icon. In 2006, Boston Pride named Turing their Honorary Grand Marshal.\n\nThe logo of Apple Inc. is often erroneously referred to as a tribute to Turing, with the bite mark a reference to his death. Both the designer of the logo and the company deny that there is any homage to Turing in the design. Stephen Fry has recounted asking Steve Jobs whether the design was intentional, saying that Jobs' response was, \"God, we wish it were.\" In February 2011, Turing's papers from the Second World War were bought for the nation with an 11th-hour bid by the National Heritage Memorial Fund, allowing them to stay at Bletchley Park.\n\nIn 2012, Turing was inducted into the Legacy Walk, an outdoor public display that celebrates LGBT history and people.\n\nThe song \"Alan et la Pomme\", by francophone singer-songwriter Salvatore Adamo, is a tribute to Turing. Turing's life and work featured in a BBC children's programme about famous scientists, \"Absolute Genius with Dick and Dom\", first broadcast on 12 March 2014.\n\nOn 17 May 2014, the world's first work of public art to recognise Turing as gay was commissioned in Bletchley, close by to Bletchley Park where his war-time work was carried out. The commission was announced to mark International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia.\nThe work was unveiled at a ceremony on Turing's birthday, 23 June 2014, and is placed alongside busy Watling Street, the old main road to London, where Turing himself would have passed by on many occasions. On 22 October 2014, Turing was inducted into the NSA Hall of Honor.\n\nTo mark the 100th anniversary of Turing's birth, the Turing Centenary Advisory Committee (TCAC) co-ordinated the Alan Turing Year, a year-long programme of events around the world honouring Turing's life and achievements. The TCAC, chaired by S. Barry Cooper with Turing's nephew Sir John Dermot Turing acting as Honorary President, worked with the University of Manchester faculty members and a broad spectrum of people from Cambridge University and Bletchley Park.\n\nOn 23 June 2012, Google featured an interactive doodle where visitors had to change the instructions of a Turing Machine, so when run, the symbols on the tape would match a provided sequence, featuring \"Google\" in Baudot-Murray code.\n\nThe Bletchley Park Trust collaborated with Winning Moves to publish an Alan Turing edition of the board game Monopoly. The game's squares and cards have been revised to tell the story of Turing's life, from his birthplace in Maida Vale to Hut 8 at Bletchley Park. The game also includes a replica of an original hand-drawn board created by William Newman, son of Turing's mentor, Max Newman, which Turing played on in the 1950s.\n\nIn the Philippines, the Department of Philosophy at De La Salle University-Manila hosted Turing 2012, an international conference on philosophy, artificial intelligence, and cognitive science from 27 to 28 March 2012 to commemorate the centenary birth of Turing. Madurai, India held celebrations with a programme attended by 6,000 students.\nThere was a three-day conference in Manchester in June, the Alan Turing Centenary Conference, a two-day conference in San Francisco, organised by the ACM, and a birthday party and Turing Centenary Conference in Cambridge organised at King's College, Cambridge, and the University of Cambridge, the latter organised by the association Computability in Europe.\n\nThe Science Museum in London launched a free exhibition devoted to Turing's life and achievements in June 2012, to run until July 2013. In February 2012, the Royal Mail issued a stamp featuring Turing as part of its \"Britons of Distinction\" series. The London 2012 Olympic Torch flame was passed on in front of Turing's statue in Sackville Gardens, Manchester, on the evening of 23 June 2012, the 100th anniversary of his birth.\n\nOn 22 June 2012 Manchester City Council, in partnership with the Lesbian and Gay Foundation, launched the Alan Turing Memorial Award, which will recognise individuals or groups who have made a significant contribution to the fight against homophobia in Manchester.\n\nAt the University of Oxford, a new course in Computer Science and Philosophy was established to coincide with the centenary of Turing's birth.\n\nPrevious events have included a celebration of Turing's life and achievements, at the University of Manchester, arranged by the British Logic Colloquium and the British Society for the History of Mathematics on 5 June 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17727609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17727609", "title": "Alice de Lusignan of Angoulême", "text": "Alice de Lusignan of Angoulême\n\nAlice de Lusignan (or Alice of Angoulême) (born after October 1236 – May 1290) was the first wife of Marcher baron Gilbert de Clare, 7th Earl of Gloucester, and half-niece of King Henry III of England.\n\nIt was rumoured that she became the mistress of her half first cousin Prince Edward, while she was briefly imprisoned on account of her husband's treason.\n\nAlice de Lusigan was born sometime after October 1236 in Angoulême, Charente, France, the daughter of Hugh XI of Lusignan, Seigneur de Lusignan, Couhe, et de Peyrat, Count of La Marche and Angoulême, and Yolande de Dreux, Countess of Penthièvre and of Porhoet, and sister of Hugh XII of Lusignan. By her paternal grandmother, Isabella of Angoulême, Queen-Consort of King John of England, she was niece, in the half blood, of Henry III.\n\nShe arrived in England on an unrecorded date. On 6 April 1250, her father was killed in battle at Fariskur, Egypt. In 1253, Alice married Gilbert de Clare, 7th Earl of Gloucester (2 September 1243 – 7 December 1295). He was the son of Richard de Clare, 6th Earl of Hertford and Maud de Lacy. He was ten years old at the time of his marriage. In later years, \"Red\" Gilbert would become one of the most powerful and important noblemen in the kingdom. The marriage produced two daughters.\n\n\nAlice was described as being very beautiful with dark hair and dark eyes. She was also flirtatious and provocative. She was said to strongly resemble her grandmother Queen Isabella. In the late summer of 1259, she formed a friendship with her half first cousin, Prince Edward, who would later ascend the throne as King Edward I. When civil war broke out and the barons rose up against the King led by Simon de Montfort, Alice's husband supported them. Prince Edward, who headed the Royalist Army, quickly went to war against the traitors who had betrayed his father. Tonbridge Castle, one of Gloucester's properties was captured by Prince Edward's troops and Alice, who was resident in the castle at the time, taken prisoner. It is alleged that the Prince and his cousin became lovers while she was imprisoned. Edward's young wife, Eleanor of Castile was in France at the time. Alice was released shortly afterward.\n\nAt the Battle of Lewes on 14 May 1264 King Henry's forces were defeated by those led by Simon and Gloucester who commanded the second line of battle. After the victory, Gilbert and his brother Thomas were both knighted. Simon de Montfort became the de facto ruler of England. On 20 October the Earl of Gloucester was excommunicated. A month later, he fell out with Montfort and transferred his allegiance to Prince Edward. Later after the Battle of Evesham, in which Simon de Montfort was killed, Gloucester was richly rewarded for his support of Prince Edward and was granted the castle and title of Abergavenny and the castle of Brecknock. He became the most powerful lord in the Welsh Marches. In 1267, he and Alice began to live apart; on 18 July 1271 they formally separated, and the marriage was annulled on 16 May 1285. Gloucester married secondly, on 30 April 1290, Joan of Acre, daughter of Prince Edward who had acceded in 1272 as King Edward I of England. Alice died in May 1290. Through her daughter Joan, Alice was the grandmother of Isabella MacDuff, Countess of Buchan, who placed the crown of Scotland upon the head of Robert the Bruce at Scone.\n"}
{"id": "68078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68078", "title": "All That Jazz (film)", "text": "All That Jazz (film)\n\nAll That Jazz is a 1979 American musical drama film directed by Bob Fosse. The screenplay, by Robert Alan Aurthur and Fosse, is a semi-autobiographical fantasy based on aspects of Fosse's life and career as a dancer, choreographer and director. The film was inspired by Fosse's manic effort to edit his film \"Lenny\" while simultaneously staging the 1975 Broadway musical \"Chicago\". It borrows its title from the Kander and Ebb tune \"All That Jazz\" in that production. The film won the Palme d'Or at the 1980 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nIn 2001, \"All That Jazz\" was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the United States Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.\n\nJoe Gideon is a theater director and choreographer trying to balance staging his latest Broadway musical with editing a Hollywood film he has directed. He is a workaholic who chain-smokes cigarettes; without a daily dose of Vivaldi, Visine, Alka-Seltzer, Dexedrine, and sex, he wouldn't have the energy to keep up the biggest \"show\" of all—his life. His girlfriend Katie Jagger, his ex-wife Audrey Paris, and daughter Michelle try to pull him back from the brink, but it is too late for his exhausted body and stress-ravaged heart. In his imagination, he flirts with an angel of death named Angelique.\n\nGideon's condition gets progressively worse. He is rushed to a hospital after experiencing chest pains during a particularly stressful table-read (with the production's penny-pinching backers in attendance) and is admitted with severe angina. Joe brushes off his symptoms, and attempts to leave to go back to rehearsal. He collapses in the doctor's office, and is ordered to stay in the hospital for several weeks to rest his heart and recover from his exhaustion. The show is postponed, but Gideon continues his antics from the hospital bed, in brazen denial of his mortality. Champagne flows, endless strings of women frolic around his hospital room, and cigarettes are constantly being smoked. As cardiogram readings show no improvement, Gideon dances with death. A negative review for his film—which has been released without him—comes in, and Gideon has a massive coronary event. He undergoes coronary artery bypass surgery.\n\nThe show's backers must decide whether it's time to pack up, or replace Gideon as the director. Their matter-of-fact, money-oriented negotiations with the insurers are juxtaposed with graphic scenes of Joe's open-heart surgery. The producers realize that the best way to recoup their money and make a profit is to bet on Gideon dying: the insurance proceeds would result in a profit of over half a million dollars. Meanwhile, elements from Gideon's past life are staged in dazzling dream sequences of musical numbers he directs from his hospital bed while on life support. Realizing death is imminent and his mortality unconquerable, Gideon has another heart attack. In the film's glittery finale, he goes through the five stages of grief—anger, denial, bargaining, depression and acceptance—featured in the stand-up routine he had been editing. As death closes in on Gideon, his fantasy episodes become more hallucinatory and extravagant. In an epilogue set up as a monumental variety show featuring everyone from his past, Gideon takes center stage.\n\nThe final shot shows his corpse being zipped up in a body bag.\n\n\n\n\nWith increasing production costs and a loss of enthusiasm for the film, Columbia brought in Fox to finance completion, who acquired domestic distribution rights in return.\n\nThe film's structure is often compared to Federico Fellini's \"8½\", another thinly veiled autobiographical film with fantastic elements.\n\nThe part of Audrey Paris—Joe's ex-wife and continuing muse, played by Leland Palmer—closely reflects that of Fosse's wife, the dancer and actress Gwen Verdon, who continued to work with him on projects including \"Chicago\" and \"All That Jazz\" itself.\n\nGideon's rough handling of chorus girl Victoria Porter closely resembles Bob Fosse's own treatment of Jennifer Nairn-Smith during rehearsals for \"Pippin\". Nairn-Smith herself appears in the film as Jennifer, one of the \"NY/LA\" dancers.\n\nAnn Reinking was one of Fosse's sexual partners at the time and was more or less playing herself in the film, but nonetheless she was required to audition for the role as Gideon's girlfriend, Kate Jagger.\n\nCliff Gorman was cast in the titular role of \"The Stand-Up\"—the film-within-a-film version of \"Lenny\"—after having played the role of Lenny Bruce in the original theatrical production of the show (for which he won a Tony Award), but was passed over for Fosse's film version of the production in favor of Dustin Hoffman.\n\nReviews were largely positive. \"All That Jazz\" scores an 86% \"Fresh\" (or \"good\") rating on review aggregation site Rotten Tomatoes based on 36 reviews.\n\nIn his review in \"The New York Times\", Vincent Canby called the film \"an uproarious display of brilliance, nerve, dance, maudlin confessions, inside jokes and, especially, ego\" and \"an essentially funny movie that seeks to operate on too many levels at the same time... some of it makes you wince, but a lot of it is great fun... A key to the success of the production is the performance of Roy Scheider as Joe Gideon... With an actor of less weight and intensity, \"All That Jazz\" might have evaporated as we watched it. Mr. Scheider's is a presence to reckon with.\"\n\n\"Variety\" described it as \"a self-important, egomaniacal, wonderfully choreographed, often compelling film\" and added, \"Roy Scheider gives a superb performance as Gideon, creating a character filled with nervous energy… The film's major flaw lies in its lack of real explanation of what, beyond ego, really motivates [him].\"\n\n\"TV Guide\" said, \"The dancing is frenzied, the dialogue piercing, the photography superb, and the acting first-rate, with non-showman Scheider an illustrious example of casting against type . . . \"All That Jazz\" is great-looking but not easy to watch. Fosse's indulgent vision at times approaches sour self-loathing.\"\n\nLeonard Maltin gave the film two-and-a-half stars (out of four) in his 2009 movie guide; he said that the film was \"self-indulgent and largely negative,\" and that \"great show biz moments and wonderful dancing are eventually buried in pretensions\"; he also called the ending \"an interminable finale which leaves a bad taste for the whole film.\"\n\n\"Time Out London\" states, \"As translated onto screen, [Fosse's] story is wretched: the jokes are relentlessly crass and objectionable; the song 'n' dance routines have been created in the cutting-room and have lost any sense of fun; Fellini-esque moments add little but pretension; and scenes of a real open-heart operation, alternating with footage of a symbolic Angel of Death in veil and white gloves, fail even in terms of the surreal.\"\n\nUpon release in 1979, director Stanley Kubrick, who is mentioned in the movie, reportedly called it \"[the] best film I think I have ever seen\".\nIn 2001, \"All That Jazz\" was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry. It was also preserved by the Academy Film Archive in the same year. In 2006, the film was ranked #14 by the American Film Institute on its list of the Greatest Movie Musicals.\n\nThe film would be the last musical nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture until Disney's \"Beauty and the Beast\" in 1991, and was the last live-action musical to compete in the category until Baz Luhrmann's \"Moulin Rouge!\" was nominated over twenty years later.\n\n\nThe DVD issued in 2003 features scene-specific commentary by Roy Scheider and interviews with Scheider and Fosse. Fox released a \"Special Music Edition\" DVD in 2007, with an audio commentary by the film's Oscar-winning editor, Alan Heim. Blu-ray and DVD editions were released in August 2014 with all the old special features, as well as new supplements through the Criterion Collection brand.\n\n"}
{"id": "3309687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3309687", "title": "Axiomatic design", "text": "Axiomatic design\n\nAxiomatic design is a systems design methodology using matrix methods to systematically analyze the transformation of customer needs into functional requirements, design parameters, and process variables. Specifically, functional requirements (FRs) are related to design parameters (DPs):\n\nThe method gets its name from its use of design principles or design Axioms (i.e., given without proof) governing the analysis and decision making process in developing high quality product or system designs. The two axioms used in Axiomatic Design (AD) are:\n\n\nAxiomatic design is considered to be a design method that addresses fundamental issues in Taguchi methods.\n\nThe methodology was developed by Dr. Suh Nam Pyo at MIT, Department of Mechanical Engineering since the 1990s. A series of academic conferences have been held to present current developments of the methodology. The most recent International Conference on Axiomatic Design (ICAD) was the 11th ICAD hosted in Romania in 2017.\n\n\nA discussion of the methodology is given here: \n\nPast proceedings of International Conferences on Axiomatic Design can be downloaded here:\n"}
{"id": "8338259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8338259", "title": "Center for Drug Evaluation and Research", "text": "Center for Drug Evaluation and Research\n\nThe Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER, pronounced \"see'-der\") is a division of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that monitors most drugs as defined in the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Some biological products are also legally considered drugs, but they are covered by the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. The center reviews applications for brand name, generic, and over the counter pharmaceuticals, manages US current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations for pharmaceutical manufacturing, determines which medications require a medical prescription, monitors advertising of approved medications, and collects and analyzes safety data about pharmaceuticals that are already on the market.\n\nCDER receives considerable public scrutiny, and thus implements processes that tend toward objectivity and tend to isolate decisions from being attributed to specific individuals. The decisions on approval will often make or break a small company's stock price (e.g., Martha Stewart and Imclone), so the markets closely watch CDER's decisions.\n\nThe center has around 1,300 employees in \"review teams\" that evaluate and approve new drugs. Additionally, the CDER employs a \"safety team\" with 72 employees to determine whether new drugs are unsafe or present risks not disclosed in the product's labeling.\n\nThe FDA's budget for approving, labeling, and monitoring drugs is roughly $290 million per year. The safety team monitors the effects of more than 3,000 prescription drugs on 200 million people with a budget of about $15 million a year. \n\nJanet Woodcock is the director of CDER.\n\nCDER reviews New Drug Applications to ensure that the drugs are safe and effective. Its primary objective is to ensure that all prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medications are safe and effective when used as directed.\n\nThe FDA requires a four phased series of clinical trials for testing drugs. Phase I involves testing new drugs on healthy volunteers in small groups to determine the maximum safe dosage. Phase II trials involve patients with the condition the drug is intended to treat to test for safety and minimal efficacy in a somewhat larger group of people. Phase III trials involve one to five thousand patients to determine whether the drug is effective in treating the condition it is intended to be used for. After this stage, a new drug application is submitted. If the drug is approved, stage IV trials are conducted after marketing to ensure there are no adverse effects or long term effects of the drug that were not previously discovered. \n\nWith the rapid advancement of biologically-derived treatments, the FDA has stated that it is working to modernize the process of approval for new drugs. In 2017, Commissioner Scott Gottlieb estimated that they have more than 600 active applications for gene and cell based therapies.\n\nCDER is divided into 8 sections with different responsibilities:\n\nThe FDA has had the responsibility of reviewing drugs since the passage of the 1906 Pure Food and Drugs Act. The 1938 Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act required all new drugs to be tested before marketing by submitting the original form of the new drug application. Within the first year, the FDA's Drug Division, the predecessor to CDER, received over 1200 applications. The Drug Amendments of 1962 required manufacturers to prove to the FDA that the drug in question was both safe and effective. In 1966, the division was reorganized to create the Office of New Drugs, which was responsible for reviewing new drug applications and clinical testing of drugs.\n\nIn 1982, when the beginning of the biotechnology revolution blurred the line between a drug and a biologic, the Bureau of Drugs was merged with the FDA's Bureau of Biologics to form the \"National Center for Drugs and Biologics\" during an agency-wide reorganization under Commissioner Arthur Hayes. This reorganization similarly merged the bureaus responsible for medical devices and radiation control into the Center for Devices and Radiological Health.\n\nIn 1987, under Commissioner Frank Young, CDER and the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) were split into their present form. The two groups were charged with enforcing different laws and had significantly different philosophical and cultural differences. At that time, CDER was more cautious about approving therapeutics and had a more adversarial relationship with the industry. The growing crisis around HIV testing and treatment and an inter-agency dispute between officials from the former Bureau of Drugs and officials from the former Bureau of Biologics over whether to approve Genentech's Activase (tissue plasminogen activator) led to the split.\n\nIn its original form, CDER was composed of six offices: Management, Compliance, Drug Standards, Drug Evaluation I, Drug Evaluation II, Epidemiology and Biostatistics, and Research Resources. The Division of Antiviral Products was added in 1989 under Drug Evaluation II due to the large amount of drugs proposed for treating AIDS. The Office of Generic Drugs was also formed.\n\nIn 2002, the FDA transferred a number of biologically produced therapeutics to CDER. These include therapeutic monoclonal antibodies, proteins intended for therapeutic use, immunomodulators, and growth factors and other products designed to alter production of blood cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "1110725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110725", "title": "Coco (folklore)", "text": "Coco (folklore)\n\nThe Coco (or Cuco, Coca, Cuca, Cucuy, Cucuí) is a mythical ghost-monster, equivalent to the bogeyman, found in many Hispanophone and Lusophone countries. He can also be considered a Latino version of a bugbear, as it is a commonly used figure of speech representing an irrational or exaggerated fear. The Coco is a male being while Coca is the female version of the mythical monster, although it is not possible to distinguish one from the other as both are the representation of the same being.\n\nThe myth of the \"Coco\" originated in Portugal and Galicia. According to the Real Academia Española, the word \"coco\" derives from the Galician and Portuguese \"côco\" , which referred to a ghost with a pumpkin head. The word \"coco\" is used in colloquial speech to refer to the human head in Portuguese and Spanish. \"Coco\" also means \"skull\". The word \"cocuruto\" in Portuguese means the crown of the head and the highest place. In Basque, \"Gogo\" means \"spirit\".\nIn Galicia, \"crouca\" means \"head\", from proto-Celtic \"*krowkā-\", with variant \"cróca\"; and either \"coco\" or \"coca\" means \"head\". It is cognate with Cornish \"crogen\", meaning \"skull\", and Breton \"krogen ar penn\", also meaning \"skull\". In Irish, \"clocan\" means \"skull\".\n\nMany Latin American countries refer to the monster as \"el Cuco\". In Northern New Mexico and Southern Colorado, where there is a large Hispanic population, it is referred to by its anglicized name, \"the Coco Man\". In Brazilian folklore, the monster is referred to as \"Cuca\" and pictured as a female humanoid alligator, derived from the Portuguese \"coca\", a dragon.\n\nIn Spain, Portugal, and Latin America (including Brazil), parents sometimes invoke the Coco as a way of discouraging their children from misbehaving; they sing lullabies or tell rhymes warning their children that if they don't obey their parents, \"el Coco\" will come and get them and then eat them.\n\nIt is not the way the Coco looks but what he does that scares most. It is a child eater and a kidnapper; it may immediately devour the child, leaving no trace, or it may spirit the child away to a place of no return, but it only does this to disobedient children. The coca is on the look out for child's misbehavior on the top of the roof, the coco takes the shape of any dark shadow and stays watching. It represents the opposite of the guardian angel and is frequently compared to the devil. Others see the Coco as a representation of the deceased of the local community.\n\nThe oldest known rhyme about the Coco, which originated in the 17th century, is in the \"Auto de los desposorios de la Virgen\" by Juan Caxés.\n\nThe rhyme has evolved over the years, but still retains its original meaning:\nThe Portuguese lullaby recorded by José Leite de Vasconcelos tells Coca to go to the top of the roof. In other versions of the same lullaby, the name of coca is changed to that of \"papão negro\" (black eater) the name of another boogyman.\nThe traditional Brazilian lullaby is as follows:\nBrazilians also have the boogeyman version, that sometimes acquires regional colors where the Bogeyman (shape-shifting \"Bicho Papão\" is a monster that is shaped by what the child fears most) is a small owl, \"murucututu\", or other birds of prey that could be on the roof of homes at night.\nVerses and songs were used in pre-Roman Iberia to transmit history to the younger generations, has told by ancient authors. Sallust said the mothers sang the military feats of the fathers to incite the children to battle. He was later quoted by Servius who emphasised that it was the role of the mothers to remembered and teach the young men about the war feats of their fathers. Silus Italicus added more, he said that the young warriors sang songs in their native language while hitting their shields in the rhythm of the songs and that they were well versed in magic. Strabo too, commented that history was recorded in verse.\n\nDuring the Portuguese and Spanish colonization of Latin America, the legend of the Coco was spread to countries such as Mexico, Argentina and Chile.\n\nThere is no general description of the \"cucuy\", as far as facial or body descriptions, but it is stated that this shapeshifting being is extremely horrible to look at. The \"coco\" is variously described as a shapeless figure, sometimes a hairy monster, that hides in closets or under beds and eats children that misbehave when they are told to go to bed.\n\nCoca is a female dragon that in medieval times, in the Iberian Peninsula, used to take part in different celebrations. In Portugal one still survives in Monção and she fights in some sort of medieval tournament with saint George during the Corpus Christi celebrations. She is called \"Santa Coca\" (Saint Coca), an allusion to the Irish saint, or \"Coca rabicha\" (Tailed Coca). If she defeats Saint George, by scaring the horse, there will be a bad year for the crops and famine, if the horse and Saint George win by cutting off one of her ears with earring and her tongue, the crops will be fertile. Oddly enough the people cheer for Saint Coca. In Galicia there are still two dragon cocas, one in Betanzos the other in Redondela.\nThe legend says that the dragon arrived from the sea and was devouring the young women and was killed in combat by the young men\nof the city. In Monção, the legend says, she lives in the Minho; in Redondela she lives in the Ria of Vigo The dragon shared the same name that was given in Portuguese and Spanish to the Cog, and although used mainly for trade it was also a war vessel common in medieval warfare and piracy raids to coastal villages.\n\nThe oldest reference to Coca is in the book \"Livro 3 de Doações de D. Afonso III\" from the year 1274, where it is referred to as a big fish that appears on the shore: \"And if by chance any whale or sperm whale or mermaid or coca or dolphin or Musaranha or other large fish that resembles some of these die in Sesimbra or Silves or elsewhere[.]\"\n\nIn Catalonia the \"Cuca fera de Tortosa\" was first documented in 1457. It is a zoomorphic figure, looks like a tortoise with a horned spine, it has dragon claws and a dragon head. The legend says she had to dine every night on three cats and three children. The legend of the Coca can be compared to the one of Peluda or Tarasque.\n\nIn Brazil the Coco appears as a female alligator called \"Cuca\". Cuca appears as the villain in some children's books by Monteiro Lobato. Artists illustrating these books depicted the Cuca as an anthropomorphic alligator. She is an allusion to \"Coca\", a dragon from the folklore of Portugal and Galicia.\n\nTraditionally in Portugal, however, the \"coco\" is represented by an iron pan with holes, to represent a face, with a light in the inside or by a carved vegetable lantern made from a pumpkin with two eyes and a mouth, that is left in dark places with a light inside to scare people. In the Beiras, heads carved on pumpkins, called \"coca\", would be carried, by the village boys, stuck on top of wooden stakes.\n\nThe same name [Coca] is given to the pumpkin perforated with the shape of a face, with a candle burning in the inside—this gives the idea of a skull on fire—that the boys on many lands of our Beira carry stuck on a stick.\n\nAn analogous custom was first mentioned by Diodorus Siculus (XIII.56.5;57.3), in which Iberian warriors, after the battle of Selinunte, in 469 BC, would hang the heads of the enemies on their spears. According to Rafael López Loureiro, this carving representation would be a milenar tradition from the Celtiberian region that spread all over the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nThe autumnal and childish custom of emptying pumpkins and carving on its bark, eyes, nose and mouth looking for a sombre expression, far from being a tradition imported by a recent Americanizing cultural mimicry, is a cultural trait in ancient Iberian Peninsula.\n\nThis representation would be related to the Celtic cult of the severed heads in the Iberian peninsula. According to João de Barros, the name of the \"coconut\" derived from \"coco\" and was given to the fruit by the sailors of Vasco da Gama, c.1498, because it reminded them of this mythical creature.\n\nThis bark from which the pome receives its vegetable nourishment, which is through its stem, has an acute way, which wants to resemble a nose placed between two round eyes, from where it throws the sprout, when it wants to be born; by reason of such figure, it was called by our [men] coco, name imposed by the women on anything they want to put fear to the children, this name thus remained, as no one knows another.\n\nRafael Bluteau (1712), defines that the coco and coca were thought to look like skulls, in Portugal:\n\nCoco or Coca. We make use of these words to frighten children, because the inner shell of the Coco has on its outside surface three holes giving it the appearance of a skull\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century the coca was an integral part of festivities like All Souls' Day and the ritual begging of Pão-por-Deus. The tradition of Pão-por-Deus, already mentioned in the 15th century, is a ritual begging for bread and cakes, done door to door by children, though in the past poor beggers would also take part. Its purpose is to share the bread or treats gathered door to door with the dear little souls, the dead of the community who were eagerly awaited and arrived at night in the shape of butterflies or little animals, during the traditional magusto. In Portugal, depending of the region, the Pão-por-Deus assumes different names: \"santoro\" or \"santorinho\", \"dia dos bolinhos\" (cookies day), \"fieis de deus\". This same tradition extends to Galicia where it is called \"migallo\". It has a close resemblance with the tradition of souling or nowadays Trick-or-treating. While the Pão-por-Deus or Santoro is the bread or offering given to the souls of the dead, the Molete or Samagaio is the bread or offering that is given when a child is born.\n\nIn this same city of Coimbra, where we find ourselves today, it is customary for groups of children to walk on the streets, on the 31st October and 1st and 2nd November, at nightfall, with a hollow pumpkin with holes that were cut out pretending to be eyes, nose and mouth, as if it was a skull, and with a stump of candle lit from within, to give it a more macabre look.\n\nIn Coimbra the begging mentions \"Bolinhos, bolinhós\" and the group brings an emptied pumpkin with two holes representing the eyes of a personage and a candle lit in the inside [...] another example of the use of the pumpkin or gourd as a human representation, is in the masks of the muffled young men during the desfolhada, the communal stripping of the maize, in Santo Tirso de Prazins (Guimarães), which after, they carry hoisted on a stick and with a candle in the inside, and leave them stuck on any deserted place to put fear to who is passing by.\n\nTo ensure that the souls don't get astray and find their way back home the \"Botador de almas\", whose mission was to lay souls (botar almas), would go every night through valleys and mountains and up on trees ringing his little bell or carrying a lantern and singing a pray to the souls. Every Portuguese village had one. But calling and singing to the souls is an ancient tradition done either by one person alone or in groups and it also has many names: \"lançar as almas\", \"encomendar as almas\", \"amentar as almas\", \"deitar as almas\", \"cantar às almas santas\".\n\nThe muffled young men, called serandeiros, are disguised young men, covered with a blanket, bed sheet or with a hooded cloak. They carry around a staff, a stick of quince or of honeyberry, about their own height in one hand, on the other they carry a small bundle of basil or apples that they make the girls that take part of the desfolhada smell, or tickle the cheeks of the people, and sometimes, to play a prank, they bring stinging nettles. When a girl recognizes who the serandeiro is or if she recognizes her boyfriend masked as a serandeiro she throws him an apple that she had previously brought from home. The serandeiros represent the spirit of the dead, the spirits of nature.\n\nThe heads would have protective and healing powers, protecting people and communities. They would also be cherished for their divinatory, prophetic and healing powers.\nThe display places for the Iron Age severed heads were in the inside or outside of buildings with a preference for public places, with streets and people passing by and always preferring high places.\n\nThe rituals in the Catholic religious order of Our Lady of Cabeza, a Black Madonna, in Portugal include the offering of heads of wax to the Lady, praying the Hail Mary while keeping a small statue of Our Lady on top of the head, and the pilgrims praying with their own heads inside a hole made on the wall of the chapel. \nThe Chapel of Our Lady of the Heads (Nossa Senhora das Cabeças) placed 50 m (164 ft) NW of the ruins of the Roman era temple of Our Lady of the Heads (Orjais, Covilhã) evidences a continuity in the use of a sacred space that changed from a pagan worship cult area to a Christian one and continued to be a place of worship for centuries after. According to Pedro Carvalho the pre-Roman findings and the unusual location of the ruins inside an 8th-century BC hillfort suggest it was the place of a pre-Roman cult.\n\nThe Lady of the Head and Lady of the Heads are two of the many names given to Our Lady. Several of her names are thought to be of pre-Roman origin. Names like Senhora da Noite, (Lady of the Night), Senhora da Luz (Lady of the Light), Señora de Carbayo (Lady of the Oak tree)are spread all over the peninsula. In Portugal alone were collected 972 titles for Our Lady in churches, altars and images not including the names of villages and places. Spain will also have an equivalent amount of titles for Our Lady.\n\nThe common element to all these names is the title Lady. But the title Senhora (pt.),Señora (Sp.) is of Latin origin, and derives from lat. senior, thus there had to be another one of pre-Roman origin. In ancient times the titles that were used in Portugal by the ladies of the court were Meana (me Ana) or Miana (mi Ana) and Meona (me Ona) these words meant the same as miLady, that is, Ana and Ona were synonys of Senhora and Dona. Ana is the name of the river Guadiana thus pre-Roman in origin. Ana is also the name of a goddess of the Irish mythology.\n\nIn the village of Ponte, parish of Mouçós, on a hill that overlooks River Corgo, there is a chapel called santo Cabeço which legend says was built by the mouros encantados. On the wall facing south there is a hole where legend says the mouros used to put their head to hear the sound of the sea. The local people also have the custom of putting their head inside the hole: some to hear the whisper that is similar to the waves of the sea, others to heal the headaches.\n\nIn Alcuéscar, Spain, a legend says that a princess exhibits a stall of skulls and human bones.\n\nIn Portugal, \"coca\" is a name for the hooded cloak and it was also the name of the traditional hooded black wedding gown still in use at the beginning of the 20th century. In Portimão during the holy week celebrations, in the \"procissão dos Passos\" (sp: Procesión de los Pasos), a procession organized by the Catholic brotherhoods, the herald, a man dressed with a black hooded cloak that covered his face and had three holes for the eyes and mouth, led the procession and announced the death of Christ. This man was either named coca, farnicoco, (farricunco, farricoco from Latin \"far, farris\" and coco) or death. The name \"coca\" was given to the cloak and to the man who wore the cloak.\n\nIn 1498, the Portuguese King Manuel I gave permission to the Catholic brotherhood of the Misericórdia to collect the bones and remains from the gallows of those that had been condemned to death and put them in a grave every year on All Saints' Day. The brotherhood in a procession, known as Procissão dos Ossos, were followed by the \"farricocos\", who carried the tombs and collected the bones.\n\nIn the travels of the Baron Rozmital, 1465-1467, it was written a paragraph commenting the traditional mourning clothes of the Portuguese of that time. The relatives of the deceased who accompanied his funeral would be clad in white and hooded like monks, but the paid mourners would be arrayed in black.\"[...] white was \nworn as the garb of mourning until the time of King Manuel, at the death of whose aunt, Philippa, black was adopted for the first time in Portugal as the symbol of sorrow for the dead\".\n\nIn Ribadeo two giant figures represent \"el coco y la coca\" that dance at the sound of drummers and Galician bagpipe players.\n\nThe 'land of the dead' is a mythic land which appears in traditions from various cultures around the ancient world.\n\nProbably the oldest mention of a mythic land of the dead located in the Iberian Peninsula is in the Lebor Gabála Érenn.\n\nThe legends of Portugal and Spain speak of an enchanted land, the Mourama, the land where an enchanted people, the Mouros (Celtic *MRVOS) dwell under the earth in Portugal and Galicia. The lore of Galicia says that \"In Galicia there are two overlapped people: a part lives on the surface of the land; they are the Galician people, and the other in the subsoil, the Mouros\". Mourama is the otherworld, the world of the dead from where everything comes back.\n\nThe Mourama is ruled by an enchanted being who is called rei Mouro, (king Mouro). His daughter is the princesa Moura, (princess Moura), a shapeshifter who changes herself into a snake, also called bicha Moura, or can even be seen riding a dragon.\n\nIn the last chapter of the work of Miguel de Cervantes, the epitaph of Don Quijote identifies him as the scarecrow and \"el coco\".\n\n\"Que Viene el Coco\", a painting that depicts a cloaked, menacing figure, was painted by Goya in 1799.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "297098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297098", "title": "Creatures (video game series)", "text": "Creatures (video game series)\n\nCreatures is an artificial life (alife) computer program series, created in the mid-1990s by English computer scientist Steve Grand whilst working for the Cambridge video games developer Millennium Interactive. Gameplay focuses on raising alien creatures known as Norns, teaching them to survive, helping them explore their world, defending them against other species, and breeding them. Words can be taught to creatures by a learning computer (for verbs) or by repeating the name of the object while the creature is looking at it. After a creature understands language, the player can instruct their creature by typing in instructions, which the creature may choose to obey. A complete life cycle is modelled for the creatures - childhood, adolescence, adulthood, and senescence, each with their own particular needs. The gameplay is designed to foster an emotional bond between the player and their creatures. Rather than taking a scripted approach, Creatures series games were driven by detailed biological and neurological simulation and their unexpected results. There were six major Creatures releases from Creature Labs. Between 1996 and 2001, there were three principal games released, the Docking Station add-on (generally referenced as a separate game) and two children's games, and there were three games created for console systems. A sequel named \"Creatures Online\" was in development, with the artificial life technology from Creatures 3 and Docking Station updated to a 3D environment.\n\nThe program was one of the first commercial titles to code alife organisms from the genetic level upwards using a sophisticated biochemistry and neural network brains, including simulated senses of sight, hearing and touch. This meant that the Norns and their DNA could develop and \"evolve\" in increasingly diverse ways, unpredicted by the makers. By breeding certain Norns with others, some traits could be passed on to following generations. The Norns turned out to behave similarly to living creatures. Sight is simulated by having a group of neurons representing each type of object in the world. When an object belonging to this type is in front of the creature ('within eyesight'), the neuron becomes active and the creature can 'see' the object. The Norns possess simulated biological drives which give punishment when they are raised, and reward when they are lowered. The model for Norns' decision-making process is Behaviorist and based on Norns learning how to reduce their drives. Dickinson and Balleine state that while this stimulus-response/reinforcement process makes the creatures seem like they are goal-directed, they are instead 'habit machines' responding in a learned fashion to particular stimuli.\n\nMutations in the genome also occur, allowing new characteristics to appear in the population and potentially be inherited by a future generation. Because the Norns have a lifespan of roughly 40 hours, users could observe the changes that occur over a large number of generations. Faulty genomes can also occur - for example, Norns which cannot see or hear, or immortal Norns due to a hyper-efficient digestion system. Creatures used the emergent approach seen in animats, but with the goal of more complex behaviours than locomotion. Grand describes the psychological model of the creatures as being inspired by rats. In 2000, Steve Grand described the intelligence level of Norns as being like ants. Margaret Boden, in 2003, rejected \"Creatures\" as being a form of alien life as the simulated metabolism is concerned with controlling the Norn's behaviour, not on maintaining its 'physical' form. In 2011, Steve Grand stated that while the Norns in \"Creatures\" could learn, generalise from past experiences to novel experiences, and react in an intelligent manner to stimuli, they could not think.\n\nThe genetics in \"Creatures\" are somewhat different from human genetics; they are haploid. There is no concept of dominant gene and recessive gene, much less recombination between loci. Nevertheless, the complexity of the simulated biochemistry meant that Norn behaviour was highly unpredictable.\n\nAmong the fans of \"Creatures\" were the Oxford zoologist Richard Dawkins, who called it a \"quantum leap in the development of artificial life\", and author Douglas Adams. \"Creatures\" inspired some players to take up careers in the sciences.\n\nOriginally conceived as a desktop pet with a brain, Grand later incorporated inspiration from The Planiverse to pitch a \"little computer ewoks\" game, like the game \"Little Computer People\". Grand wanted players to have a rapport with their creatures, feeling that he should make the creatures seem \"genuinely alive\" to the player, showing \"the 'right' kind of behaviour' in a variety of circumstances. To create this kind of behaviour, Grand felt it was necessary to program the creatures by simulating the building blocks of nature in a bottom-up approach, allowing the complex behaviour to emerge, rather than using a rule-based system approach. Grand later wished to include references to an \"English\" or Norse mythology, to try to make the world more internally consistent, but found that the team wanted to make the game into a conventional adventure game. He later decided to scale back on the mythology aspects of the game, focusing instead on the artificial life point - eventually presenting the game as an artificial pet hobby, which provided some of the impetus to include genetics in the creatures.\n\"Creatures\" was developed as a consumer product by Millennium, and was released by Mindscape in 1996. The program was instantly successful, and an online community of players soon formed, swapping Norns, creating new objects for Albia, sharing tips on how to play the game and anecdotes about unexpected evolutionary changes that they had seen, and even creating new breeds of Norn. At one point, the Creatures online community was the largest of its type.\n\nIn 1996, \"Creatures\" won an EMMA Award. Based on sales of 500,000 copies of \"Creatures\" from 1996 through to the second quarter of 1998, it was estimated that at that time, there was a possible global population of up to five million norns.\n\nDevelopment of \"Creatures 2\" began in Q3 1997. In 1998, the video games division of Millennium was sold to Sony Entertainment while those working on alife and \"Creatures\" formed a new company called Cyberlife Technology. Along with continued work on the \"Creatures\" titles, the company did work for industry and the British Ministry of Defence, famously attempting to teach live organisms to fly virtual fighter jets. \"Creatures 2\" was nominated in the Artificial Intelligence category of the Game Developers Conference's Spotlight Award.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Grand left Cyberlife to form Cyberlife Research and focus on the production of new alife technologies, including work on a robotic life form he called Lucy as well as writing books about his research. The remainder of the company was renamed Creature Labs, and focused on video game development.\n\nSequels to \"Creatures\", including \"Creatures 2\", \"Creatures 3\" and the small-children's games \"Creatures Adventures\" and \"Creatures Playground\", were released by Creature Labs in subsequent years. \"Creatures Adventures\" won an EMMA Award in 2000. \"Creatures Playground\" was exhibited at E3 and nominated for a BAFTA award in 2000. The final major \"Creatures\" release, \"Docking Station\", was made available for download from the company's web site in 2001.\n\nDevelopment was suspended on future \"Creatures\" games on March 20, 2003, when Creature Labs ceased operations, but development and trademark rights have since been purchased by Gameware Development, Ltd. Gameware has revived the Creatures Developer Network, the shop, the forums, the Docking Station server, and has released many before-purchasable tools and add-ons for free.\n\nGameware staff that previously worked on \"Creatures\" developed a convergent media game for the BBC called \"BAMZOOKi\".\n\nIn 2004, the \"Creatures\" games have been re-released in combination packs under the names \"Creatures: The Albian Years\" (C1, C2), \"Creatures Exodus\" (C3, DS) and \"Creatures Village\" (CA, CP). The Albian Years, and Exodus include the separate games, whereas Village has merged Adventures and Playground into a single game.\n\nKutoka Interactive, a Canadian children's software company, has created releases of \"Creatures Exodus\" (Kutoka) and \"Creatures Village\" (Kutoka Kids) that are compatible with both Apple's Mac OS X and Windows XP. They were released on 30 September 2005, and can be purchased either directly from Kutoka or from other online stores.\n\nIn November 2009, GOG.com announced that they were offering \"Creatures: The Albian Years\", \"Creatures Exodus\" and \"Creatures Village\" for sale on their site as digital downloads. In 2011, \"Creatures 3: Raised in Space\", a PlayStation One game, was re-released on the PlayStation Plus service.\n\nIn 2011, Fishing Cactus announced they were developing Creatures 4, to be demonstrated at that year's gamescom. A second demonstration was exhibited at gamescom 2012. \"Creatures 4\" is Fishing Cactus's most complex game to date. \"Creatures 4\" appeared at the 2012 Paris Games Week. In May 2013, Fishing Cactus announced that they and BigBen were partnering with ProSiebenSat.1 Games as a distributor, and that the name of the game would be changed from \"Creatures 4\" to \"Creatures Online\". Another demo was shown at gamescom 2013. Julien Hamaide, a developer of Creatures Online, presented about it at the Game/AI Conference 2014. In September 2015, Fishing Cactus halted the development of Creatures Online.\n\nIn 2016, Spil Games announced that they had bought the \"Creatures\" intellectual property from BigBen and were developing a free-to-play mobile game called \"Creatures Family\" to be released in 2017.\n\nBasic gameplay consists of hatching some creatures, usually norns, and guiding them to reach maturity and to breed more creatures, with the goal of a more intelligent future population. Words can be taught to creatures by a learning computer (for verbs) or by repeating the name of the object while the creature is looking at it. After a creature understands language, the player can instruct their creature by typing in instructions, which the creature may choose to obey. The player cannot force creatures to do anything. The player is represented by a disembodied hand in the world, and the hand can attempt to teach creatures by tickling them as a reward or punishing creatures by slapping them. (For \"Creatures Village\", aimed at very young players, tickling is done by a feather wand, and punishment is represented by a squirt bottle.) Older norns can also teach concepts to younger norns. Norns may also express to the player how they are feeling. The language aspect was incorporated to promote a relationship between norns and players, allowing players to anthropomorphise their creatures. A complete life cycle is modelled for the creatures - childhood, adolescence, adulthood, and senescence, each with their own particular needs. Breeding is depicted in the game as \"a delicate affair\", and is shown in the game by \"a long kissing sound followed by a pop\". The gameplay is designed to foster an emotional bond between the player and their creatures. Death has real consequences - the individual norns do not return after they die. All creatures are bipedal, but there are some variant appearances that are genetically-linked. Some alternate play styles include \"wolfling runs\", where the player may not intervene in their creatures' lives, or even norn torture. Trying to selectively breed or engineer certain traits into the population is also popular, for example, coloured creatures, norns with a better immune system, or a less-aggressive grendel.\n\n\nA Norn is an AIL (Artificial intelligent life) species, the development and survival of which constitute the main thematic elements of the program.\n\nNorns are playful, all-trusting, naive creatures that love to explore. This is often the reason for their downfall, suffering, and death. They are more susceptible to disease in comparison to Ettins and Grendels, and in old age they may fall prey to a wasting disease that prevents them from absorbing certain nutrients.\n\nGrand wished Norns to be endearing and for players to keep them as pets - that they should be independent and stubborn, like toddlers, and that the design of the norn should be appealing to as many people as possible, and that the player should care about the norns. Reviewers have compared the Norns' visual design to the Mogwai of the \"Gremlins\" film series. The Shee originally created the Norns as a mixture of valet and pet. According to the Creatures Labs website, they spread across the galaxy through the Warp and evolved into various variations, including but not restricted to: Toxic Norn, Treehugger Norn and Magma Norns. The spread of Norns throughout the galaxy is related to the mysterious disappearance of the Shee from Albia (from the point of view of the Norns). It may also be a sign of how the Shee fared in their attempt to find a habitable planet.\n\nIn the games, the Norns have their own simulated biochemistry, haploid genetics, and neural network to serve as a brain. From Creatures 2 onwards, Norns also possess organs determined by their genetics; mutation and injury can render these defunct, with typically fatal consequences. Each of these has grown somewhat over the course of the series, allowing the creatures to become more complex and intelligent. Norns are omnivores and eat a variety of foods, including carrots, lemons, seeds, insects, fish, honey, and other things. The Norns that the player starts with require some degree of training and discipline from the player in order to make good decisions to maintain their health; however, later on they can evolve to be more independent and hardy, with better-developed instincts and a more robust biochemistry. The player can take advantage of this to breed certain colours or traits through artificial selection, and through many generations the changes can become quite pronounced.\n\nNorns are very social animals, sometimes to the extent that they will prefer to play with other norns than to eat.\n\n\nThe Shee are a race of absent-minded scientists. They are the original inhabitants of Albia, and the creators of the Norns, Ettins, and Grendels.\n\nThe Shee are all inventors, and make most of their inventions to save time on tasks that would have taken but a few minutes otherwise.\n\nMost of their discoveries are made by accident, and as such, they sequenced their own DNA and eliminated all genetic defects, before discovering the wheel.\n\nMillennia ago, the Shee had left the disk-shaped world of Albia, as they desired to live on a \"more spherical world\". They created the Shee Ark, took along some Norns, Ettins, and various animals and plants, and set out for their new home. The Shee Ark, like all Shee spacecraft, was itself a living creature grown from scratch, and used \"Bioenergy\" (the energy of living things, used to balance the game) to perform its various functions.\n\nEarly concepts of the Shee had them as merely a more advanced life form than the Norns, not their creators.\n\nEttins are a species in \"Creatures 2\" and \"Creatures 3\".\n\nEttins were created by the Shee to help them on their experiments, especially when using machinery. They made them like machines so much, they tend to steal bits for themselves, often taking them to wherever they consider their home.\n\n\"C2\" Ettins behave rather differently; they tend to lead a sad and lonely life underground with no one but Pitz and the occasional Grendel for company. The backstory in the guides and manual, as well as the opening sequence, reveals that they once lived in the desert at the top of Albia and, true to their nature, built the pyramid that sits there. The actual use (if any) of the pyramid is unknown.\n\nEttins were introduced into the \"Creatures\" series in \"C2\", having been revealed to the world after the volcanic eruption.\n\nAn early concept of the Ettins described them as insignificant \"small, lizard-like creatures\", who were often kept as pets by Norns.\n\nThe Ettins in \"Creatures 2\" were infertile; however, in \"Creatures 3\", there were two Ettins aboard the Shee Ark at most times (both female), and it was possible to get them to breed if two of them were placed in the Gene Splicer machine to create a male Ettin.\n\nAn in-depth exploration of the genetics and neurology of the Ettins in \"Creatures 2\" revealed that they were constantly in pain, apparently by design. This discovery was met by fan uproar.\n\n\nGrendels are the green-skinned, red-eyed antagonists of the Norns, over which the player has little control, stealing food and injuring individual Norns. They also carry diseases harmful to Norns. The early concepts of their appearance described them as \"resembling a huge, titanium spider\".\n\nIn the unmodified \"Creatures 1\" and \"2\", Grendels do not reproduce, being born infertile. Generally, only one Grendel is alive in the world of Albia at a time. In \"Creatures 3\", two Grendels were alive aboard the Shee Ark at most times (both male), but it was possible to get them to breed and have offspring if both were placed in the Gene Splicer machine and used to create a female Grendel.\n\nIn all three games, Grendels are automatically produced by a \"Mother\" machine; in \"Creatures 3\", however, it is possible to ensure that there are no Grendels in the game by killing any existing grendels (e.g. in the airlock) and then waiting by the mother, then placing any eggs into water (the piranha pool) so that they cannot hatch.\n\nThe Grendels were another genetically engineered creation of the Shee, albeit an accidental one. They were certainly not what the Shee were trying to get as a result from their experiments, and were considered to be harmful, useless monsters. However, some of the evil Shee (known as the Banshee) believed the Grendels were genetically superior to the Norns, and kept some for improvement.\n\nIt is possible to cross a Norn with a Grendel, creating a 'Grenorn'.\n\nThe Creatures community has appeared to adopt the Grendel as an underdog figure, creating a \"Grendel Liberation Front\" - despite being intended to add stress to Norns' lives, players began to tame their Grendels.\n\nIn each of the games, players interact with the world through the use of a graphical hand as the player's mouse in the main visual area of the game. In \"Creatures\" and \"Creatures 2\", players can use applets in a toolbar, often called Kits, along the top of the game window, to access many functions, such as getting their first norn eggs, naming and photographing their norns, monitoring the health and general biochemistry of the norns and administering medicines, monitoring pregnancies, injecting objects into the world, and recording deceased norns. \"Creatures 2\" introduced an Ecology Kit and Neuroscience Kit.\n\nIn Creature 3 and Docking Station, players still use a hand as their mouse to interact with creatures and the world, but the main game area does not have toolbars like in Creatures and Creatures 2, but instead has areas along the sides of the screens with buttons that the user can press to move to different locations, view the current creatures in the world, manage an inventory of items, and change game settings.\n\nCharlie Brooker regarded the level of detail shown in the monitoring kits as \"terrifying\", and it has been argued that the detailed monitoring kits highlight the artificiality of the norns. Peter Smith disliked the limitation of C1 that the player is \"limited to seeing areas that you've tagged as favorite places or that are currently inhabited by Norns,\" and found it difficult to correctly reward and punish the creatures. Creatures 2 introduced an angel and devil glyph which appears next to the hand to show you whether you are about to reward or punish your creature. Jim Brumbaugh, in reviewing \"Creatures\", disliked the amount of typing that was needed to communicate with the creatures, but found the menu system \"highly user friendly.\" He noted also that there was only one way that the player could save, when the player exited the game. Eddie Walou praised the simplified user interface of \"Creatures 4\", saying that earlier games felt like you had to have your BAC to understand. Kahn Lusth, writing for Canard PC, enjoyed the new interface of \"Creatures Online\" for communicating with creatures, where with a click of the mouse the player can choose suggestions to guide their creatures, describing it as more convenient than typing keywords. To improve the ergonomics on the iOS system, a 'rubber-band' system has been created for \"Creatures Online\", where the player draws a line between the norn and an object. When the finger is lifted, the available instructions appear.\n\nWhile the initial pitch was for a desktop pet that could interact with other Windows programs, for example, Windows Media Player, as the game developed, the need for a self-contained world became more apparent. The world was named \"Albia\", after Albion, and one of the goals of gameplay became to explore Albia. Grand thought that having the creatures inhabit a rich, \"messy\", world, and to be able to interact with it in many ways would help creatures' personalities to emerge. The backdrop for \"Creatures\" was created by taking photographs of a physical model of the world, part of which is now housed at The Centre for Computing History.\n\nThe world is rendered in 2.5D, and the world can smoothly scroll to follow a creature. The world contains many different items, which creatures can interact with in a variety of ways. Objects are written using an object-oriented programming technique - each item has their own scripts which determine how they interact with creatures and with other objects. Objects are detected by a creature by being in its line of sight, which excites a neuron dedicated to that class of objects. The object-oriented approach means that the games are highly modifiable. Some of the items in the world are dangerous to norns.\n\nIn \"Creatures 2\", the environment became more complex, with a \"Complete working eco-system, including weather, seasons and a functioning food-chain. The plants seed and spread around the environment if conditions allow. The result of this is a very \"real\" feeling world that adapts around the player.\"\n\nIn \"Creatures 3\" and \"Docking Station\", the game was set on a spaceship. The environment became more segmented into areas called \"metarooms\", small biomes, each with their own ecosystem. Players could download and add new metarooms to their games.\n\nThere were six major \"Creatures\" releases from Creature Labs. In addition to the three principal games, the \"Docking Station\" add-on (generally referenced as a separate game) and two children's games were released.\n\nThe original \"Creatures\" game, released in the United Kingdom and Australia in November 1996 and in North America in July 1997, took place on the fictional disc-shaped world Albia. While the \"faces\" of the disc were uninhabitable, the \"rim\" of Albia was home to a complicated environment much like Earth's. Here lay an abandoned system of laboratories left over by the Shee, an advanced race that had suddenly left the planet many years earlier in order to find a more stable world. In these laboratories and environments, the player was able to hatch new Norns from leftover eggs and re-inhabit the world of Albia. According to Millenium, every copy of \"Creatures\" contains a unique starting set of eggs, whose genomes are not replicated on any other copy of the game. An expansion pack, called \"Life Kit #1\" was released for purchase later.\n\n\"Creatures\" sold 100,000 copies by November 1997. At the time, John Moore of Mindscape explained that the company \"expect[s] to sell more than 200,000 \"Creatures\" by the end of the year.\"\n\n\"Creatures 2\", released on September 30, 1998, took place many years after the first game, after a devastating natural disaster (or, as explained in later games, a devastating Shee disaster) had changed the landscape of Albia dramatically and opened up new areas of the world. New technology and species were made available to the player, and the creatures themselves had been provided with \"considerably more sensory input, more actions they can take, and improved brain dynamics\". Despite the great change in environment, including a \"complete working eco-system\", the focus of the game remained the same. Creatures 2 Deluxe (with Life Kit) soon followed. 200,000 copies of \"Creatures 2\" were immediately shipped upon its release. Two expansion packs, Life Kit 1 and Life Kit 2, were released for C2. \"Creatures 2\" was considered \"much more difficult\" than \"C1\", and the new, more challenging environment and norn biology was described as frustrating, but that after installing a new genome and going through successive generations, the Norns seemed smarter. Nick Walkland described the gameplay as a \"labour of love\", noting that the challenge was to sustain your Norns' lives. Sid Fisk of Gamezilla criticized the audio for Creatures 2 for not alerting him when his creature was near-death, but playing a \"funeral dirge\" as the body left the screen.\n\n\"Creatures 3\", released on November 4, 1999, took a detour from the first two games. It took place on the spaceship that the Shee had used to flee Albia. The ship was divided into many carefully controlled environments (Norn Terrarium, Jungle Terrarium, Desert Terrarium, Marine Terrarium). \"Creatures 3\" was much more technologically focused, including many agents which could be connected in various ways to perform tasks. Still, the goal was to experiment with the three principal species and create a living world out of an empty ship. \"Creatures 3\" included a \"new social element\", by which norns could remember relationships they've formed with other creatures better.\n\nThe final major \"Creatures\" release was \"Docking Station\", an Internet-based add-on to \"Creatures 3\", released free of charge on the \"Creatures\" web site on March 27, 2001. It was intended as a way to sell \"Creatures 3\" (you could dock the worlds of the two games together, hence the name \"\"Docking\" Station\") and extra packs of Norn breeds. \"Docking Station\" has an intermittent reminder screen that encourages users to buy \"Creatures 3\".\n\n\"Docking Station\" added the possibility of interaction between individual player worlds; Norns could 'travel' to other online worlds via a central server, players could chat to other online players, and it was possible to track Norns (and their offspring) that had been present in their worlds via the \"Docking Station\" website. While \"Docking Station\" was released late in the series' run, it changed gameplay (and the potential of the series) dramatically. One reviewer stated that it opened up a whole new world for her online. Another reviewer criticised the online portion of the game, as it requires the player to find online buddies. Docking Station also expanded considerably on the game mythos, including the introduction of an 'anti-Shee', the Banshee (a Grendel/Shee hybrid).\n\n\"Creatures Online\" was a planned sequel to the game, which was being developed by Fishing Cactus. The game was announced as \"Creatures 4\" in Fishing Cactus's blog in May 2011. Creatures Online was to have 5 worlds, was to be completely in 3D graphics instead of 2.5D pre-rendered graphics, and in-game currency was planned to buy Norns toys, food, etc. Creatures Online was designed to be a free-to-play game. A collector's edition box was also announced with a Norn figurine, the three original games for current PCs, and all the money you paid for the game as in-game money for your Norns. Creatures 4 entered an in-house alpha phase in March 2013. The internal systems of the creatures from C3/DS were retained and updated for the 3D environment. Norns' fur patterns were to be partially procedurally generated, with the goal of ensuring \"that no two Norns look alike\". Heterochromia iridum has been introduced. The norns of Creatures Online will have a new drive, tentatively called \"altruism\", which encourages them to do things which will benefit the norn colony, like tending to plants and fixing broken toys. \"Creatures 4\" was renamed \"Creatures Online\" in May 2013. Creatures Online, unlike earlier entries in the Creatures series, was to have a system of missions for the player to complete.\n\nReleased in 2000, and targeted at younger children (ages 6–9), \"Creatures Adventures\" dropped the complex interface of the main series in favour of brighter graphics and a more childlike atmosphere.\n\nThe second game in the younger children's series, \"Creatures Playground\" (released the same year), could be connected to Adventures to create an even bigger world to explore. It has a theme park for the creatures, including mini-games like whack-a-mole.\n\nThe \"Creatures\" concept was made into three different games for consoles: \"Creatures\" for the Game Boy Advance and \"Creatures\" and \"\" for PlayStation. In the PlayStation games, the hand is replaced by a fairy named Scrubby. Because of the limited processing power of the early-day consoles, the AI had to be completely reprogrammed by the console development team around Volker Eloesser. A fourth, \"Project Loci\", was in development at the time of Creatures Labs' liquidation, but was cancelled for lack of funds. \"Loci\" would have been the first \"Creatures\" game for the PS2, Xbox and GameCube.\n\nThere have been various re-releases of the \"Creatures\" games. The later re-releases from Gameware improved Windows XP compatibility by allowing them to run easily under non-administrator accounts and without the use of the compatibility mode, but break compatibility with some third-party content without the use of a third-party patch.\n\nThis release of \"Creatures Trilogy\" included \"Creatures\", \"Creatures 2\", and \"Creatures 3\", as well as the \"Life Kit\" addons for the earlier games. It was released before \"Docking Station\", but the version of \"Creatures 3\" included in this was identical to the original release (except that it was using the newest patch) and was therefore compatible with \"Docking Station\".\n\nEncore Software released a \"Creatures Trilogy\" containing \"Creatures\", \"Creatures 2\", and \"Creatures 3\", under their Encare line. They also released a \"gold\" version titled \"Creatures Trilogy Gold Collection\".\n\nThe final major \"Creatures\" release was a re-release in 2001 by FastTrak Software Publishing as \"Creatures Internet Edition\", a bundle of \"Creatures 3\", \"Creatures 3 Update 2\", \"Docking Station\", and a number of environment extras and tools (many with multilingual variants). Linux Game Publishing released a Linux port of \"Creatures Internet Edition\" a few months later in December 2001.\n\nThe original \"Creatures Internet Edition\" was released again in 2002 by Focus Multimedia, without the physical manual, as \"Creatures Gold\", but the disc contents were identical (and so the installer and PDF manual both referred to it as \"Creatures Internet Edition\").\n\n\"Creatures 1\" and \"Creatures 2\" on one disk, updated to run on Windows XP.\n\n\"Creatures 3\" and \"Docking Station\" plus a selection of new Norn breeds on one disk, updated for improved Windows XP compatibility. Mac OS X and Windows & Mac dual-format, and free downloadable versions are also available.\n\n\"Creatures Adventures\" and \"Creatures Playground\", merged and updated for improved Windows XP compatibility. Mac OS X and Windows & Mac dual-format versions are also available.\n\n\"Creatures Triple Pack\", otherwise known as \"Creatures Collection: Triple\", contains \"The Albian Years\", \"Creatures Exodus\" and \"Creatures Village\" for Windows.\n\nAs of September 2017, the Creatures Community, or CC, is still very active online and in the games; Each year, the Community holds a festival called the Creatures Community Spirit Festival, or CCSF, to celebrate the games and the community that has formed since the creation of the game. Players have always ranged in age and the enthusiasm for the games is still very high.\n\nSeveral reviews of the series emphasise that the player will need patience, and recommend it for players who are not parents.\n\nThe early games do not have specific goals, leading some reviewers to consider it a 'small scale genetic experiment' rather than a game. One reviewer compares the game to a virtual 'fish tank', feeling that once the frustration of raising norns through their childhood was over and a breeding population had been established, the game became boring for him.\n\nSeveral reviewers compared Creatures favourably to Tamagotchi when Creatures first came out.\n\nFor Caroline Daniel, it is intriguing what our interactions with the game will reveal about us. Furthermore, Daniel regarded the game as an important step in popularising artificial life technology in the home.\n\nBetween July and November 1997, over 100,000 copies of \"Creatures\" were sold in the American market. \"Windows Sources\" magazine gave the series a \"Stellar Award\".\n\nJay Schindler wondered if this game was entertainment or a simulation of parenthood. Schindler criticised the inability to scroll all the way around the world. Schindler also noted that raising a group of norns was much more difficult than raising a single norn, as they could interact with each other with much greater ease than he could interact with a norn.\n\nDon Labriola wrote of \"Creatures\" that \"no other program so successfully mirrors the joys and challenges of raising a child or pet.\"\n\nIn 2016, the \"Creatures\" series was featured by an academic study into science-themed video games as depicting an accurate model of evolution and natural selection, displaying three key features of the process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1281864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1281864", "title": "Dalek variants", "text": "Dalek variants\n\nSince their first appearance in 1963 there have been a number of variant models of the Daleks, a fictional alien race in the BBC science fiction television programme \"Doctor Who\".\n\nFirst seen in the serial \"The Daleks\" (1963–64), the outward manifestation is portrayed as a powerful, technically advanced travel machine in which a hideous and malevolent mutant, the Dalek creature, resides. Although the general appearance of the Daleks has remained the same, details of both the casing and the mutant creature have changed over time. Alterations were made to accommodate the requirements of specific plot elements in various serials and episodes or at the request of producers, designers and directors to revitalise the Dalek appearance. On other occasions design changes have been the result of practical considerations when filming the Dalek props on location, or the mixing of components acquired from different sources.\n\nThe episodes \"Asylum of the Daleks\" (2012), \"The Magician's Apprentice\" (2015) and \"The Witch's Familiar\" (2015) feature appearances by many of the Dalek variants seen in the \"Doctor Who\" programme since its inception.\nThe component names listed below are used in this article as an aid to tracking the detail changes made to the basic Dalek design to create variants. From the base up, the major components are:\n\nExternally Daleks have the appearance of a truncated cone varying between approximately 1.5 metres (5 feet) and 2 metres (6 feet 6 inches) tall depending upon the variant. They are equipped with a single mechanical rod-mounted eye which protrudes from a rotating dome, a directed energy weapon and a telescopic arm. Usually the arm is fitted with a manipulating device resembling a sink plunger. This item is shown in various episodes to be capable of holding people and objects, seemingly using a powerful vacuum. The weapon is depicted as having a variable output which can paralyse, stun or kill most life forms, disintegrate other Daleks and destroy buildings and spacecraft.\n\nIn \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (1988) and the episodes \"The Parting of the Ways\" (2005) and \"Doomsday\" (2006) the Doctor states that Dalek casings are constructed from \"bonded polycarbide\", with this material being referred to as \"dalekanium\" in \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" (1964) and \"Daleks in Manhattan\" (2007). The casing is depicted as being impervious to most projectile and energy weapons, although not indestructible. In various episodes Daleks are shown being damaged or destroyed by overwhelming firepower, their own weaponry and falls from a height. In addition, in \"Revelation of the Daleks\" (1985), they are said to be vulnerable to \"bastic-headed bullets\". In appearances from 2005 onwards a Dalek's defensive capability has been shown to include an invisible force shield, with the eye remaining a weak point.\n\nThe lower shell is covered with hemispherical protrusions. In the BBC-licensed \"The Dalek Book\" (1964), and again in \"The Doctor Who Technical Manual\" (1983), these items are described as being part of a sensory array. In \"Dalek\" (2005) they are shown to act as components in a self-destruct mechanism.\n\nHistorically, a Dalek's eye has been depicted as its most vulnerable spot. In \"Silence in the Library\" (2008) the Doctor, speaking of how to deal with various alien menaces, says \"Daleks: aim for the eye stalk\". In the revived series from 2005 onwards, storylines have shown Daleks as having systems to protect their vision. In the 2008 episode \"The Stolen Earth\", Wilfred Mott attempts to disable a Dalek by blinding it using a paintball gun. The Dalek is seen to simply evaporate the paint from its eye.\n\nWhile maintaining their general shape and appearance, the design of these components has varied over the years. Eye lenses were first shown as blank, white discs, sometimes featuring internal illumination. Later, lenses with a black \"pupil\" were introduced. \"New Series\" Daleks have a clear lens which glows with a blue light while New Paradigm Daleks, introduced in the episode \"Victory of the Daleks\" (2010), are equipped with an \"organic eyeball\" set behind a small transparent hemisphere.<ref name=\"DWC 5/3\"></ref> Throughout the 1960s Daleks were occasionally shown with a functioning iris, a feature also seen in the \"New Series\" Dalek design. The eye discs have varied in number, size, spacing, profile and configuration. Colour has generally been restricted to powder blue, white or gold, with \"New Series\" Dalek eye discs having a translucent, frosted appearance and those of the New Paradigm variant being black.\n\nThe dome-light covers first resembled table tennis balls, before items having the appearance of plastic egg cup inserts were substituted. Later these were replaced by various types of \"bee skep-shaped\" vehicle side light lenses. The flattened lights fitted to the Imperial Daleks seen in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" were formed from Perspex discs capped by commercially available saucer-shaped plastic components, while \"New Series\" and New Paradigm Daleks have light-covers consisting of tubular beacon lenses, the former variant's being surrounded by a metal cage.\n\nThe underside structure of a Dalek casing was indeterminate until the publication of \"The Dalek Book \" (1964). This included a cutaway drawing entitled \"Anatomy of a Dalek\" which showed it to have a base through which a large central sphere, surrounded by smaller satellite \"balancing globes\", protrudes. This layout was generally adopted and used in subsequent Dalek plans and comic strip representations. This is at variance with the few glimpses seen in early \"Doctor Who\" television episodes and films, which made little attempt to show (or hide) anything other than the actual base of the Dalek prop. As this usually took the form of a plywood board to which castors had been attached and a hole cut out for the operator's feet, these brief appearances were of little assistance in maintaining the illusion of the props being functional, armoured casings housing an alien being. This situation was finally remedied in the episode \"Dalek\" (2005) and subsequent appearances of the \"New Series\" Dalek. This variant is shown to have an underside consisting of a large, recessed central hemisphere surrounded by eight satellite hemispheres. The central hemisphere and four of the satellite hemispheres glow when the Dalek is in flight mode.\n\nThe creatures inside the \"travel machines\" are depicted as repulsive in appearance and vicious even without their mechanical armour. Rarely glimpsed until the programme's revival in 2005, they were usually shown as amorphous green blobs with strong tentacles capable of strangulation or, occasionally, as having clawed hands. Their appearance and evolution is variously attributed to radioactive fallout from a catastrophic war, artificially accelerating pre-existing genetic mutations in the Kaled species and the manipulation of genetic material forcibly obtained from other (usually human) species. From 2005 onward the Dalek creature has been seen more frequently, in its latest incarnation resembling a pale octopus-like being with a single viable eye, a vestigial nose and mouth, and an exposed brain.\n\nIn the episode \"The Witch's Familiar\" (2015) it is revealed that the mutants are biologically immortal, yet still gradually age to eventually rot away into a liquid mass. These decayed Daleks are ultimately deposited in Skaro's sewer system, where they decompose further into a living, maddened sludge.\n\nDaleks have distinctive electronic voices, the harsh, staccato sound being created by actors speaking through a microphone into a device called a ring modulator. While this produces considerable distortion and a monotone effect, inflection and pace are used to express a range of emotions including rage, triumph, disdain and, very occasionally, fear. (  )\n\nDalek locomotion is usually shown as a gliding movement a few centimetres above the ground. \"The Dalek Book\" (1964) indicates that traction is provided by a large, omnidirectional rotating metal sphere, while in the serial \"Death to the Daleks\" (1974) the Doctor states that they move by psycho-kinetic power. For years Daleks were depicted as being unable to climb stairs, with travel confined to smooth ground and level surfaces. This was rectified in \"Revelation of the Daleks\" in which a hovering Dalek was seen briefly, and then in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" which featured a Dalek levitating up a staircase. From 2005 various \"Doctor Who\" episodes have shown Daleks hovering and flying with ease, locomotion being imparted by anti-gravity generators.\n\nDuring the course of the \"Doctor Who\" television programme the BBC, its producers and scriptwriters have rarely alluded to changes in Dalek design or ascribed names or designations to the various models seen. Notable exceptions usually refer to rank, such as \"Emperor\" and \"Supreme Dalek\", although in \"Genesis of the Daleks\" the newly created Dalek casing is referred to as a \"Mark 3 Travel Machine\".\n\nThe Dalek variant naming conventions used in this article are attributed to the various models as a matter of convenience. They can be found in general use by the Doctor Who/Dalek fan base, and are often quoted in posts and documentation on websites such as The Project Dalek Forum. Other classifications for the major Dalek variants exist. \"The Doctor Who Technical Manual\" (1983) places both television and Movie Daleks in the same numerical sequence by order of their first screen appearances, although reconciling the characters and events depicted in the Doctor Who films with those established in the TV programme is problematic.\n\nThe term \"drone\" is used in this article to indicate a Dalek having no rank. Its only use to date in the Doctor Who television serials and films in which the Daleks have appeared has been in the Eleventh Doctor episode \"Victory of the Daleks\".\n\nThe Daleks first appeared in the 1963 \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Daleks\". There are no visual cues to distinguish one Dalek from another, or suggestions in the story of a hierarchy.\n\nThe Mark 1 Dalek differs from later variants in having no shoulder slats or mesh, nine eye discs (the greatest number of any version) and a \"toffee apple\" shaped eyeball. The eye lenses are illuminated and shown to have an iris which can expand and contract. These Daleks have a silver colour scheme with blue/grey shoulders, blue hemispheres and eye discs, collars in natural aluminium and black fenders. The story refers to them being powered by static electricity, with mobility limited to the metal floors in the Dalek City on their home planet, Skaro.\n\nIn the episode \"The Ambush\" a Dalek is shown using a device resembling a thermal lance to cut through a door. It consists of a long, slim tube flanked by two globes, surmounted by a clear disc-shaped \"sight screen\". This appendage is mounted to the Dalek's arm in place of a plunger.\n\nThe Dalek concept was the creation of screenwriter Terry Nation, with the design being realised by BBC staff designer Raymond Cusick. The props were constructed by Shawcraft Engineering of Uxbridge, England under the direction of Bill Roberts, who also provided additional design input. Four 1960s style Dalek props were recreated by Titan Props for the British television docudrama \"An Adventure in Space and Time\" (2013), commissioned by the BBC to celebrate the \"Doctor Who\" programme's fiftieth anniversary.\n\nThe storyline for the second serial to feature the Daleks, \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" (1964), required the props to be used extensively on location. Consequently, serial designer Spencer Chapman and manufacturer Shawcraft Engineering devised a tricycle arrangement, incorporating three pneumatic tyres, to replace the original castors and carry the props over uneven ground. Enlarged fenders were then created to hide the revised undercarriage.\n\nTo explain the Daleks' ability to travel away from the static-charged floors of their city, the narrative has the Doctor stating that an aerial located at the edge of a mine in Bedfordshire is the key to the Daleks' power supply on Earth. Although not referred to directly in the story, it is implied that the parabolic dishes now fitted to the rear shoulder section of each prop act as receptors for a form of transmitted energy. Other design changes are a reduction in the number of eye discs to five and painting some eyeballs silver instead of the standard black colour. An amphibious capability is demonstrated in the closing moments of the first episode of the serial when a Dalek emerges from beneath the waters of the River Thames.\n\nFor the first time a Dalek command structure is introduced, with rank indicated by differing colour schemes. The Earth Task Force Commander, or \"Saucer Commander\", features a black dome and alternating light and dark skirt panels. A Supreme Controller or \"Black Dalek\" is also seen with a black dome, shoulders and skirt.\n\nFirst introduced in 1965, the basic design of the Mark 3 Dalek variant remained relatively unchanged throughout their later appearances.\n\nThe Mark 3 Dalek variant first appeared in \"The Chase\" (1965), with Ray Cusick returning as designer for the serial. As the production required no location filming and Cusick felt that Daleks should be shorter than an average person, he had the enlarged fenders and wheels, installed for \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\", removed and replaced with the original style of running gear. Greater flexibility in the storylines was afforded by freeing the Daleks from reliance on static-charged metal floors for power and mobility. For this and further serials, however, the contrivance of dish aerials as energy receptors was dispensed with. They were replaced by a steel mesh wrapped around the upper collar of each prop, over which were mounted twenty-three vertical, oblong slats ostensibly forming a power collection array (although this function has never been confirmed on screen).\n\nA Black Dalek appears in the first episode of \"The Chase\"; \"The Executioners\". Daleks with non-standard arm appendages are also seen in this serial. A gimballed hemisphere referred to as both a \"seismic detector\" and a \"TARDIS perceptor\" appears, and in the episode \"The Planet of Decision\" an \"electro unit\" is employed to disable an electronic lock. The prop consisted of a large revolving parabolic dish from the centre of which two converging rods protruded.\n\nIn the later 1960s serials in which they appeared the Dalek design remained virtually unchanged, with only minor variations to the standard colour scheme and appendages.\n\nIn \"The Daleks' Master Plan\" (1965) several Daleks are shown clearing areas of jungle using short, tubular flame throwers, referred to as \"pyro-flame burners\", in place of the standard plunger.\n\nA Dalek with a circular sieve-like scoop attachment in place of its plunger is seen in \"The Power of the Daleks\" (1966). It is used for transferring embryonic Dalek mutants from a liquid-filled nurturing tank to their travel machine casings. For this serial and future appearance of the Mark 3 variant, the gun design was simplified by removing the mantles.\n\nIn \"The Evil of the Daleks\" (1967) a Black Dalek is seen again, this time with grey shoulders. Two more elements of the Dalek hierarchy are also introduced; the Dalek Emperor and Daleks with black domes which appear to act as the Emperor's personal guard. (This motif appears again in \"The Parting of the Ways\" (2005), with black-domed Daleks fulfilling a similar function.) For the first time a Dalek is seen with a black pupil centred in its eye lens.\n\nAn unusual version of the Mark 3 Dalek made an appearance in \"The Evil of the Daleks\". It featured narrow skirt and shoulder sections, with the rear skirt panel having only a single vertical line of hemispheres down the middle. These differences are not alluded to in the story. This prop is sometimes referred to as \"The Wilkie Dalek\" after Bernard Wilkie, the BBC technical designer who became primarily responsible for the \"Doctor Who\" programme's visual effects after Shawcraft's involvement ceased during 1967.\n\nThe Daleks returned in the 1972 serial \"Day of the Daleks\", their first appearance in colour on the \"Doctor Who\" television programme. \"Drone\" Daleks were now finished in grey, with black hemispheres and fender. Except for \"Death to the Daleks\" (1974), and albeit with variations in the shade of grey and occasional adornment with black slats, black collars or both, this stayed as the standard Dalek colour scheme for the remaining eight serials in which they appeared over the next sixteen years. During this period, however, several small changes to the standard Mark 3 Dalek design were made and their hierarchy was again expanded.\n\nIn \"Day of the Daleks\" a Dalek Leader is seen painted in gold, with black hemispheres and fender. This serial also saw the first appearance of an oval disc between the appendage boxes and a higher fender on all models. The eye lens \"pupil\", first seen in \"The Evil of the Daleks\", now became a standard fitting. A gold Dalek Leader returned again in \"Frontier in Space\" (1973).\n\nSeven additional Dalek props were produced for \"Planet of the Daleks\" (1973), created by special effects professional Clifford Culley's company Westbury Design & Optical Limited. The production crew referred to these props as \"goons\". Although fabricated using measurements and moulds taken from an existing prop, the \"goon\" Daleks exhibited minor differences from the original Shawcraft builds including the substitution of single dowel neck struts for the trefoil cross section items which were the norm up to this point. The story again called for a Dalek to cut through a metal door, on this occasion the cutting device replacing the plunger resembling the tip of a large soldering iron. This serial also featured a unique variant; the Dalek Supreme.\n\nIn \"Death to the Daleks\" the travel machines display a silver livery with black shoulders, hemispheres and fender. During the serial, due to a plot element, the standard blasters are replaced by projectile weapons featuring a drilled barrel with six small fins at the muzzle. After killing two primitive humanoids with these devices a Dalek declares them to be \"...moderately efficient\". The phasing-out of three section telescopic arms commenced in this serial, with two sections becoming the norm for the remainder of the classic series.\n\nIn \"Destiny of the Daleks\" (1979) many of the Dalek props feature an attachment resembling a small stub aerial projecting from the top of the dome. Six crude, hollow, vacuum-formed Dalek props were also created. They were primarily used during location filming of the serial's finale, although several of them can also be seen in the background of some studio shots. They can be recognised by their thick neck struts and the absence of dome aerials and appendage ball joints. Production photographs taken at the time reveal that they also lacked hemispheres on the rear skirt panels.\n\nA group of Daleks are seen in this story forming a suicide squad to destroy an enemy spacecraft, each with a number of bombs attached to its shoulder section. The bomb props consist of yellow cylinders capped at the ends by red hemispheres.\n\nA Mark 3 drone Dalek with a distinctive design also appears in \"Destiny of the Daleks\". It features a combination of \"goon\" and Shawcraft Dalek sections for the upper half, and a unique skirt with a rear section which flares out from the shoulders at almost the same angle as the front. Four prominent bolt heads frame the chest oval and large hemispheres are fitted. These differences are not alluded to in the story and the origin of the components remains uncertain. This variant is sometimes referred to as \"The Tussauds Dalek\" after Madame Tussauds wax museum in London, where it was exhibited (painted bright blue and silver) as part of their Doctor Who display in the 1980s.\n\nCommencing with a cameo appearance in the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Five Doctors\" (1983), Mark 3 Dalek variants seen during this decade feature a neck bin raised so that a strip of it is visible between the lower neck ring and the top of the shoulders. The fitting of a small stub aerial to the dome continued, appearing for the last time in \"Resurrection of the Daleks\" (1984).\n\nThe eyestalks and discs of standard Daleks in \"Resurrection of the Daleks\" are painted white, with four discs arranged in a conical layout, smallest disc to the front. The Tussauds Dalek prop appears in this serial under two guises; a grey drone and a Supreme Dalek painted in gloss black with white hemispheres. The Tussauds Dalek features briefly once more in \"Revelation of the Daleks\", again portraying a drone.\n\nIn \"The Evil of the Daleks\" (1967) the Emperor is presented as a towering, immobile, twelve-sided conical structure to which numerous umbilical cables are connected. Twelve large, black hemispheres girdle its midsection with a further two smaller, tan-coloured hemispheres being mounted horizontally on the chest. It has a predominantly white colour scheme with black detailing and speaks in an echoing, grating voice. Shown mounted on a plinth in a corner of the control room in the Dalek City on Skaro, in the story it is destroyed when a civil war breaks out among the Daleks.\n\nThe Dalek Emperor was created by the BBC Visual Effects Department.\n\nIn \"Planet of the Daleks\" (1973) the Dalek Supreme, a member of the Dalek Supreme Council, is despatched to the planet Spiridon. It is tasked with overseeing experiments into invisibility, the production of a plague designed to exterminate all organic life and the deployment of a 10,000 strong Dalek invasion force.\n\nThe variant was based on a prop owned by screenwriter Terry Nation which had been used in the second Doctor Who film. The neck bin mesh, struts and neck rings were removed, the latter items being replaced by new rings having a flat, recessed edge detailed with small rivets rather than the usual bevel. Lilac dome lights shaped like upturned jam jars were fitted, together with an eyeball resembling a flashlight which lit up when it spoke. It was painted in gloss black with yellow-gold hemispheres, slats, neck rings and dome. It is uncertain who carried out the conversion work, although the painting of the prop was undertaken by the BBC Visual Effects Department under the direction of Clifford Culley.\n\nThe ruthlessness of the Dalek Supreme is demonstrated in the story when it destroys the Dalek leader of the Spiridon task force for failing to meet its mission objectives.\nIn \"Revelation of the Daleks\" (1985) Davros creates an army of Dalek mutants by manipulating DNA extracted from humans on the planet Necros, where the terminally ill and the dead are being stored in suspended animation. These Necros Daleks are portrayed in the serial as a rebel faction while the grey Daleks from the Dalek home-world of Skaro, seen in the final episode, serve the Supreme Dalek.\n\nIn this serial Davros' life-support chair is shown hovering a short distance above the ground. In a later scene a Dalek kills two saboteurs from an elevated vantage point, implying that Daleks now share this capability. For DVD releases of the serial from 2005 onwards new shots were created to clarify that the Dalek is hovering.\n\nThe Necros Dalek design features detail changes which distinguish it from the standard Mark 3 variant. The skirt angle is steeper at both the front and rear and the hemispheres have a smaller diameter. The shoulder section has only twenty slats, and is broader at the top which, when combined with the skirt, gives it a stockier look. The arm is shorter and the oval between the appendage boxes more elongated. The neck bin strip beneath the lower neck ring is quite distinct in this variant. Necros Daleks are painted light cream with gold hemispheres, shoulder mesh, neck bin mesh, arm and gun.\n\nMaking a single appearance in \"Revelation of the Daleks\", a Glass Dalek is introduced as a transparent, embryonic version of a Necros Dalek in which a grotesquely mutating human head can be seen. It has four neck rings rather than three. It was manufactured primarily from clear Perspex.\n\nIn \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (1988) Davros, masquerading as the Dalek Emperor, has gained control of Skaro. He commands an army of Imperial Daleks, created by grafting bionic appendages onto the bodies of Kaled mutants. The Supreme Dalek and its followers are now referred to by the Imperial Daleks as \"renegades\".\n\nImperial Daleks have a similar colour scheme to Necros Daleks, but the designs are otherwise quite distinct from one another and were realised using different sets of props\n\nThe Imperial Dalek shares a skirt design with the Necros Dalek. In other respects it features many differences when compared with previous variants. It has a stepped fender incorporating a recessed bottom section and integrally moulded collars and slats with no shoulder mesh. There are circular bosses around the appendage ball joints, a hexagonal panel between the appendage boxes, a re-modelled eye and eye discs, a mirrored eye lens with a small gold pupil, flush dome lights and a notched, funnel-like appendage instead of a plunger. The dome has a slightly larger diameter with a sharper angle where the bevelled section meets the curved upper part. The neck bin has a mirrored gold finish and is detailed with a fine circular-section gold mesh overlay, replacing the usual diamond section design. The props are painted predominantly light cream with gold hemisphere, slats, arm, \"plunger\", gun, eye discs and light covers.\n\nThe hovering capability first seen in \"Revelation of the Daleks\" is confirmed in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" when an Imperial Dalek is shown levitating up a staircase, emitting a red glow from the base of its casing.\n\nThe Special Weapons Dalek is a heavily armoured Imperial variant first seen in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" and later in \"Asylum of the Daleks\" (2012), \"The Magician's Apprentice\" (2015) and \"The Witch's Familiar\" (2015). It has no manipulator arm, eye-stalk or dome lights, the latter items being replaced by an encircling row of small, square, translucent ports set around a foreshortened neck section and beneath a truncated dome. In \"The Witch's Familiar\" the ports are shown to glow with an orange light when the Dalek speaks. It is equipped with a large energy cannon mounted on the front of the casing, which in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" is portrayed completely vaporising two conventional Daleks with a single shot, leaving only scorch marks on the ground. The armour is seen deflecting conventional Dalek weapon fire without suffering damage. Like other Imperial Daleks its livery is white with gold hemispheres, but with a metallic grey colour applied to most of the upper section. The casing appears battle-scarred and far dirtier than other Daleks, which are usually shown in a clean condition.\n\nThe BBC \"Dalek Survival Guide\" book maintains that this variant's weapon is fifty times more powerful than a regular Dalek blaster. It notes that Special Weapons Daleks are almost always directly controlled by Dalek commanders and rarely allowed autonomy, except in desperate situations, as they are as likely to fire on fellow Daleks as the enemy.\n\nIn Ben Aaronovitch's novelisation of \"Remembrance\" it is stated that the enormous power source required for the Special Weapons Dalek's gun resulted in the release of high levels of radiation which altered the structure of the Dalek creature's brain, causing insanity. Consequently, other Daleks shun it, ironically for being a mutant, naming it \"the Abomination\". The novel states that the Special Weapons Dalek is used only in extreme situations and only the Emperor can maintain complete control over it. The Special Weapons Dalek is also mentioned in the novel \"War of the Daleks\". and the Big Finish audio production \"The Genocide Machine\". See also The Dark Dimension Dalek.\n\nThe Emperor of the Imperial Dalek faction features in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\". During the serial it is revealed that it contains the Kaled Davros, rather than a Dalek mutant. With only his head and partial torso visible, he is carried in a life support casing similar in design to the \"TV21\" comic version of the Dalek Emperor. The travel machine has no appendages. A translucent hexagonal panel is located centrally on the front of the dome, in a position approximating that where an eye stalk would be mounted on a standard Dalek casing. A strip-light is mounted vertically behind it, which scans from side to side when the Emperor speaks. The front upper section of the dome is shown to operate like a visor, retracting upward and to the rear to reveal Davros within.\n\nIn \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (1988) the Imperial Daleks are opposed by \"Renegade Daleks\". Most of the Renegades seen in the serial are of the Necros Dalek design but with the prominent neck bin strip below the lower neck ring removed. The shoulder mesh is also coarser than that previously seen, resembling a perforated, solid material. Renegade drones are painted grey with a black fender, hemispheres, collars, slats and appendages. A Renegade Supreme Dalek also appears, being a BBC promotional prop made by Martin Wilkie and Lorne Martin. It too is primarily based on the Necros design but with a different collar, slat, mesh and neck bin arrangement. It is further differentiated by having a small eyeball and orange dome lights and appears in a black paint scheme with silver neck rings, neck struts, hemispheres, collars, mesh and slats.\n\n\"Remembrance of the Daleks\" was the Daleks' last appearance in the \"classic\" \"Doctor Who\" series, with the programme being put on hiatus by the BBC after December 1989.\n\nAfter a break of fifteen years from regular production (there was a 1996 \"Doctor Who\" television movie in which the Daleks were heard but not seen), \"Doctor Who\" returned to British television in March 2005. The sixth episode of the \"new series\" first season, \"Dalek\", featured a lone Dalek, the survivor of a Time War which had ended in the mutual annihilation of both the Daleks and the Doctor's race, the Time Lords. While the \"New Series\" Dalek retains the same basic shape and proportions of its forebears, almost every component has been re-designed to give it a more solid look. The updated appearance was the result of input from \"Doctor Who\" executive producer Russell T Davies, artist Bryan Hitch and production designer Edward Thomas, with the design being realised by art department assistant designer Matthew Savage.\nThe first batch of \"New Series\" Dalek props were constructed by special effects company The Model Unit under the direction of Mike Tucker, with later builds being undertaken by Specialist Models, 'propmaker.co.uk' and Rubbertoe Props.\n\nThe standard \"New Series\" Dalek design incorporates additional detailing to many of the components including the dome, gun, appendage boxes, plunger and eyeball. The fender is larger with a bevelled edge, the lower collar is integral to the casing and the upper collar and mesh are omitted, being replaced by a raised shoulder section beneath the neck bin. The slats have an indented central channel running down their length and the neck bin mesh has a denser, more complex design. The dome lights are substantially larger and enclosed in metal cages and the eye stalk pivot is surrounded by a cowl, below which is a horizontal oblong depression containing an ideogram unique to each Dalek. The standard \"New Series\" Dalek is finished in a metallic bronze colour scheme.\n\nThis Dalek design exhibits previously unseen abilities, many of which are realised using computer-generated imagery.<ref name=\"DWC 1/6\"></ref> The casing has a swivelling midsection incorporating the appendage boxes, providing a 360-degree field of fire. It can also open by splitting down the front centreline to reveal the mutant within. In \"Dalek\" (2005) the hemispheres are shown to be recessed spheres and components of a self-destruct mechanism. They are able to separate from the Dalek's casing and create an encircling sphere of energy within which the Dalek is destroyed without trace. The plunger has been transformed into a versatile tool with an adaptable shape which can interface with keyboards and control mechanisms, upload data, drain power and crush a man's skull.\n\n\"New Series\" Daleks have been shown flying both in the vacuum of space and planetary atmospheres. They can regenerate by absorbing residual radiation and DNA from a time-traveller who touches them (\"Doomsday\" (2006)) and have a force field which can disintegrate bullets before they strike the casing. The height of the new design was chosen so that the eye stalk would be level with the eyes of the Doctor's companion Rose Tyler, as portrayed by actress Billie Piper.\n\nThree minor variations to the standard \"new series\" design have been shown. The single Dalek seen in \"Dalek\" differs from those appearing in subsequent episodes in that the lower shoulder collar is the same brass colour as its slats, instead of being bronze. A Dalek is seen in \"The Parting of the Ways\" (2005) with its plunger replaced by a spherical appendage incorporating a three-pincer claw and an extendable cutting torch. The story shows it being used by the Dalek force invading the Satellite 5 space station to breach an internal blast door. The toy manufacturer Character Options has used the term \"Assault Dalek\" on promotional material and packaging for licensed scale Dalek action figures having the claw/cutter appendage. The episode \"Victory of the Daleks\" (2010), set during World War II, features two \"New Series\" Daleks masquerading as British secret weapons. Their casings are painted in camouflage green with a Union Jack replacing the identifying ideogram on the dome front. Canvas ammunition pouches are fixed around the shoulders and in one scene a Dalek is shown operating outdoors with opaque fabric covers fitted over its dome lights. The Daleks are also seen carrying a tea tray and box files with their plungers angled upward, an ability not previously demonstrated. These Daleks are referred to as \"Ironsides\" in the story.\n\nRepeating the motif first seen in 1967 serial \"The Evil of the Daleks\", a number of black-domed Daleks appear briefly in \"The Parting of the Ways\", forming a guard around the Dalek Emperor. Some of the guards are also differentiated by the replacement of the standard plunger with a metallic sphere, on the front of which is a glowing lens. In some instances the sphere is held by blade-like projections while the support for a second, larger type is provided by a tubular framework. These specialised appendages are not referred to or shown in use during the episode, nor is their purpose explained. Both the BBC's Doctor Who website and the publication \"Doctor Who: Aliens and Enemies\" describe them as weapons. The packaging for the Character Options 12\" radio control model of the Emperor's Guard variant identifies the device as a \"multiple spectrum sensor arm\".\n\nAn Emperor Dalek features in the 2005 series finale \"The Parting of the Ways\". Escaping the Time War which resulted in the apparent destruction of both the Daleks and Time Lords alike, its ship had fallen through time and space to the edge of Earth's Solar System. Having then recreated the Dalek race this Emperor regards itself as an immortal god and the Daleks worship it as such. The Emperor Dalek mutant floats in a transparent cylindrical tank below a large dome which is adorned with lights and an eyestalk. Two mechanical arms are mounted to the base of the tank. The central structure is connected by articulated joints to three flanking panels, to which large hemispheres are attached.\n\n\"Doctor Who\" production designer Edward Thomas was responsible for the overall appearance of the Emperor Dalek, with the design being realised by assistant designers Dan Walker and Matthew Savage. The Emperor's casing was produced as a 1:6 scale model by The Model Unit, while the Emperor Dalek mutant was an animatronic puppet, again in 1:6 scale, created by visual effects specialist Neill Gorton.\n\nThe Cult of Skaro is introduced in \"Army of Ghosts\" (2006) as an elite order of Daleks specifically engineered to use initiative and think like the enemy. They are the first recurring Dalek characters in the history of the \"Doctor Who\" television programme. Unlike other Daleks the four members of the Cult have individual names; Sec, Thay, Jast and Caan. While Daleks Thay, Jast and Caan appear identical to other Daleks, Dalek Sec is distinguished by a black casing.\n\nThe Cult are shown to possess a sense of individuality and the ability to initiate an \"emergency temporal shift\" to escape danger by travelling through time and space. In \"Doomsday\" a combination of three plungers are used to extract information from a person's mind with lethal results (although it is implied that this can be done without killing the victim). In the episode \"Daleks in Manhattan\" (2007) the plungers of the Cult of Skaro Daleks are used to detect the intelligence of human subjects, and in one scene a plunger is temporarily replaced by a syringe-like device. The BBC book \"Doctor Who Files: The Cult of Skaro \" states that Dalek Sec's black casing is constructed from \"Metalert\", an enhanced form of Dalekanium reinforced with flidor gold and sap from the extinct Arkellis flower. This fictional material and its constituents have their origins in the \"TV Century 21\" Dalek comic strip from 1965, where they are mentioned in the stories \"Duel of the Daleks\" and \"Genesis of Evil\".\n\nAppearing in the linked episodes \"The Stolen Earth\" (2008) and \"Journey's End\" (2008), Vault Daleks watch over Davros in the Vault of \"The Crucible\" space station, acting as both bodyguards and warders. Although unnamed during the episodes in which they appear, the term is used for the variant on the BBC's Doctor Who website. Character Options named its licensed scale toys of the variant \"Crucible Daleks\".\n\nVault Daleks form part of the recreated Dalek race each of which, Davros states, has been genetically engineered with cells taken from his own body. Instead of the standard plunger they are fitted with a claw-like appendage incorporating eight \"pincers\", which are shown to fit directly into some of the ship's controls.\n\nA Supreme Dalek appears in \"The Stolen Earth\" and \"Journey's End\" (2008), and \"The Magician's Apprentice\" and \"The Witch's Familiar\" (2015) as leader of the Dalek forces, outranking even Davros. This variant is a radical departure from the standard \"New Series\" design. It is painted red with gold hemispheres, collar and neck rings. It has three plinth-mounted dome lights featuring cages with three, rather than four uprights, and large golden struts connecting its shoulders to an extended neck bin. Its voice is deeper than the other Daleks, resembling that of the 2005 series' Dalek Emperor. Nicholas Briggs, who provided the voice talent for the Dalek, stated that he adopted a grandiose delivery for the Supreme Dalek to fit his perception of the character as being egotistical.<ref name=\"DWC 4/12\"></ref>\n\nThe Supreme Dalek was designed by \"Doctor Who\" production designer Edward Thomas, realised by design assistant Peter McKinstry and created by \"propmaker.co.uk\".\n\nIn \"Victory of the Daleks\" (2010) five examples of a new Dalek variant are introduced, described in the narrative as forming \"a new Dalek paradigm\". They are created from pure Dalek DNA contained in a device called a \"Progenitor\". Their design is the result of input from \"Doctor Who\" executive producer Steven Moffat, production designer Edward Thomas, \"Victory of the Daleks\" writer Mark Gatiss and concept artist Peter McKinstry. The props were produced by the BBC Art Department under the supervision of senior prop maker Barry Jones.\n\nEach of the five New Paradigm variants has a casing of a different colour, representing their role in Dalek society: red, Drone; blue, Strategist; orange, Scientist; yellow, Eternal and white, Supreme. Speaking on the programme \"Doctor Who Confidential\", \"Doctor Who\" Executive Producer Steven Moffat stated that the function of the Eternal Dalek had yet to be decided, while writer Mark Gatiss confirmed that the bright colours of the New Paradigm Daleks were inspired by the Daleks seen in the 1960s Amicus films.\n\nNew Paradigm Daleks are taller than previous variants, having a substantial fender reminiscent of Movie Daleks. The skirt section consists of raised panels with bevelled edges to which forty-eight hemispheres are fixed in twelve columns. The hemispheres are coloured grey with the exception of the Eternal Dalek, where they are black. The central rear skirt panel is enlarged to form a broad spine featuring a recessed horizontal louvre assembly. Published design drawings and commentary by concept artist Peter McKinstry indicates that this section is capable of opening to deploy alternative weapons which would traverse around the midsection to replace the standard armament, although this has not been portrayed on screen. The skirt is surmounted by a prominent, slatless shoulder section, divided by a horizontal groove and featuring integral appendage boxes. The neck is devoid of struts and consists of four flared rings detailed with small vertical slots, and is mounted towards the front of the Dalek giving the appearance of a prominent hump to the rear shoulder section. The dome, to which two cylindrical lights are fitted, is missing the chamfered lower section applied to previous variants. The gun is larger than that previously seen on the programme and is shown causing the complete disintegration of another Dalek. The eye design features five closely spaced discs of identical diameter behind an eyeball, inset with horizontal fins, on the front of which is a veined \"organic\" lens which glows with a yellow light. It is mounted to the dome on a ball joint.\n\nTwo variations on the New Paradigm design have been shown. The Series 5 finale \"The Big Bang\" features a pair of fossilised New Paradigm 'Stone Daleks' having the appearance of severely weathered statues. They are remnants left when, in the episode, most of history is erased by the destruction of the universe. The term Stone Dalek is derived from a listing in the episode credits. In the Series 7 episode \"Asylum of the Daleks\" red Drone and blue Strategist Daleks are shown with their original bright colour schemes replaced by a deeper, metallic hue. The rear of the props are also seen with minor modifications, rendering the spine slightly less prominent.\n\nThe design of the New Paradigm Daleks proved to be controversial and failed to generate much enthusiasm among fans of the TV series. In 2015, commenting on the introduction of the New Paradigm, Moffat said \"Well I suppose if I'm completely honest - and it's all my fault, no one else's fault - I don't think that was a great idea. When I looked at them in person I thought 'My God, the new Daleks are awesome. they're so huge and powerful, they're brilliant.' But I learned a grave lesson: which is that when you put them on screen, of course, they don't look bigger, they just make all the other Daleks look smaller.\" Moffat stated that the New Paradigm Daleks hadn't been abandoned, however. \"...I now consider them an officer class of Dalek.\" \"They haven't gone away. We still have them. But that's the answer. The answer to most questions I find is that I've made a mistake.\"\n\nHybridisation between Daleks and human beings has been a recurring theme in the \"Doctor Who\" television programme since the 1960s.\n\nIn \"Revelation of the Daleks\" (1985) Davros creates a new breed of Dalek mutants to command. He uses as source material the severed heads of terminal human medical patients in the Tranquil Repose mausoleum and suspended animation facility on the planet Necros. During the early stages of the conversion process the victims retain some memory and awareness of their humanity, but by the end of the metamorphosis they have become fully Dalek in nature, if not appearance.\n\nIn \"Dalek\" (2005) a dying Dalek's casing is touched by Rose Tyler, a companion of the Doctor. During this brief physical contact the Dalek absorbs enough of her DNA to regenerate itself and its damaged travel machine. It later becomes apparent that this genetic material has caused it to mutate further, as it begins to experience human emotions. It finally becomes trapped in an agony of conflict and self-loathing, and destroys itself.\nIn \"The Parting of the Ways\" (2005) the Emperor Dalek and the few surviving members of its crew hide in space for centuries after the Time War, harvesting organic material from captured humans and genetically manipulating it to rebuild their race. The Emperor tells the Doctor that a new Dalek army has been created using \"filleted, pulped and sifted\" human bodies, although they still consider themselves to be \"...pure and blessed Dalek\". When a Dalek is destroyed and the mutant revealed it is of a different appearance to the mutant seen in \"Dalek\", the prop hinting at a human heritage. Mutants originating from Kaled stock appear to have a closed, vestigial second eye, set below and to one side of the sighted eye. The mutant in \"The Parting of the Ways\" seems to have two identical symmetrically set eyes above which is a prominent supraorbital ridge. A large fleshy mass protrudes below the eyes, with folds suggestive of a mouth-like orifice.\n\nIn the two-part story \"Daleks in Manhattan\" and \"Evolution of the Daleks\" (2007) the Cult of Skaro, stranded in 1930s America following an emergency temporal shift, attempt to rebuild the Dalek race. Their leader, Dalek Sec, traps in its casing Mr. Diagoras, a human collaborator, and merges with him to become a Human/Dalek hybrid. The process results in a mutated humanoid creature with fingers tapered to points, a large, exposed brain and a single eye set in a face framed by six thick tentacles. The voice is an amalgam of human and Dalek characteristics. Sec then orders that hybrids should be created having human bodies and emotions, coupled with Dalek intelligence, to eradicate the Daleks' obsession with universal supremacy which has led them to the brink of extinction. Believing that Daleks should remain pure and Sec is now a traitor to their race, the other Cult members bind it in chains and adjust the conversion process to produce hybrids which are completely Dalek in nature. Sec is killed preventing Cult member Dalek Thay from exterminating the Doctor.\n\nThe episode \"Asylum of the Daleks\" (2012) introduces the Dalek planet Asylum where a young woman, Oswin Oswald, has become trapped following a spaceship crash. A nanogene cloud, designed to convert all other life forms to serve the planet's security system, completely transforms her into a Dalek to preserve her genius-level intellect for Dalek use. Oswin is initially unaware of her condition, having created the self-delusion of continuing humanity to protect herself from the horror of her situation. Ultimately she is able to overcome her re-emergent Dalek personality and assist the Doctor and his companions to escape the planet. She perishes when the Daleks destroy the Asylum from space.\n\nIn \"The Evil of the Daleks\" (1967) the Daleks trap the Doctor into identifying the \"Dalek Factor\", which determines their species' unquestioning obedience to Dalek ideology and aggressive, pitiless nature. With the aid of a \"converted\" Doctor they plan to impregnate all of humanity throughout Earth's history with the Dalek Factor, transforming them into \"Human Daleks\". When, in the story, some Daleks are implanted with the \"Human Factor\" they lose their aggressive traits and begin to question authority, leading to a catastrophic civil war.\n\nIn the two-part story \"Daleks in Manhattan\" and \"Evolution of the Daleks\" (2007) the Cult of Skaro attempt to rebuild the Dalek race using Human-Dalek DNA to \"format\" the brains of thousands of captured people who have had their minds erased. The scheme fails due to the contamination of the Human Daleks with the Doctor's DNA, causing them to question their orders and Dalek ideology. After two of the Cult members are destroyed by the Human Daleks during a fire-fight, the remaining Dalek, Caan, declares the hybrids to be a failure and transmits a destruct signal, killing them.\n\nIn \"The Witch's Familiar\" (2015), Davros attempts to use the Doctor's regeneration energy to transform every Dalek on Skaro into Dalek-Time Lord hybrids. The plan fails when the rotting remains of aged Daleks, which have been discarded in the sewers of the Dalek city, are reanimated by the energy and attack the functional Daleks in revenge.\n\nDalek \"puppets\" are portrayed as life forms converted to serve the Daleks, often covertly. They retain their original, physical form and limited memories from the host, while being endowed with extendable Dalek appendages which are deployed by bursting outward through the skin. Dalek control of the puppets is usually absolute, although a few individual examples have been depicted breaking their mental conditioning and regaining their free will.\nFirst appearing in \"Asylum of the Daleks\" (2012), humanoids are stated to have been converted to Dalek puppets by nanogenes to act as part of the planet Asylum's security system. In the novel \"The Dalek Generation\" (2013), a child, Jenibeth Blakely, is held prisoner by the Daleks for almost ninety years, during which time she is transformed into a Dalek puppet. Hybrids of this type next appear in the episode \"The Time of the Doctor\" (2013), where the crew of the spacecraft \"Church of the Papal Mainframe\" are killed by the Daleks during the battle for the planet Trenzalore and turned into Dalek puppets. In \"The Magician's Apprentice\" (2015), Bors, a human friend of the Doctor from the year 1138, is revealed to be a Dalek puppet tasked by his masters with obtaining the TARDIS.\n\nCapitalising on the wave of \"Dalekmania\" gripping Britain following their initial appearances in the \"Doctor Who\" programme, two films featuring the Daleks were produced: \"Dr. Who and the Daleks\" (1965) and \"Daleks' Invasion Earth 2150 A.D.\" (1966). The storylines for these movies are essentially identical to the first two TV serials in which the Daleks were seen, with the primary exception that the protagonist is portrayed as an eccentric human inventor with the surname \"Who\" rather than an alien. Consequently, these Dalek appearances and variants exist in a continuity unique to the film series.\n\nFirst appearing in the film \"Dr. Who and the Daleks\", Movie Daleks have substantial fenders, very similar in shape and design to those seen in the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\". The skirt sits directly on top of the enlarged fender, however, without the intervening step created by the original TV variant base. The appendage boxes are angled slightly differently and the neck ring edges have a steeper bevel. The eyestalk has only five discs, most irises are illuminated and the dome lights are considerably larger than those seen on TV Daleks of the period. Another distinctive design feature is the gun, which has a wider bore than the TV counterpart, lacks mantles and is depicted as projecting a pressurised jet of destructive, lethal vapour rather than an energy discharge.\n\nThree minor Dalek variants appear in the film. Some Daleks are fitted with a two-jawed mechanical claw instead of a plunger, some have integrally moulded collars with reversed angles on the front edges and one is seen with a cutting torch instead of a telescopic arm.\n\nWhile hemisphere misalignment is an occasionally recurring feature of Daleks seen on television, this issue presents itself in a uniform manner with all of the film props. Most noticeably the four hemispheres on the rear-left corner skirt panel are set higher than those on the other panels.\n\nFor their first film appearance the Dalek props were painted in bold colours. Drones are primarily silver with mid-blue domes, hemispheres and fenders, and gold collars. The Dalek leader is black with alternating silver and gold hemispheres, alternating silver and gold neck rings, and gold collars and fender. Its second in command is portrayed as a red Dalek with black hemispheres, gold collars and a gold fender. On all versions the dome lights are coloured red.\n\nThe hero props seen in the film were constructed by Shawcraft Engineering while the Daleks with integrally moulded shoulder collars, which were mainly used to make up numbers in crowd scenes, were produced by the Plaster Workshops at Shepperton Studios.\n\nThree Mark 1 Movie Dalek props can occasionally be seen in the Doctor Who television serial \"The Chase\", hired from the production company responsible for the Doctor Who films to increase numbers. In some scenes their large fenders are missing, with the skirts sitting directly on the floor, and the large dome lights replaced with smaller items as used for the TV props. Their more striking colour scheme is not readily apparent due the filming of the serial in monochrome. As the film was not released until after \"The Chase\" was screened, this television appearance is the first occasion that the film props were seen by the public. \n\nThe Dalek variant seen in the film \"Daleks' Invasion Earth 2150 A.D.\" is similar in design to the Mark 1 version but with the addition of the upper collar mesh and slats with which the TV versions were by now equipped. At various points in the film a Dalek can be seen with a small silver plunger in place of the usual black item. Another features a scissor-like claw instead of the standard \"G-clamp\"-shaped device and a gun with mantles. These unusual appendages are not referred to in the story. The misalignment of the hemispheres, evident in \"Dr. Who and the Daleks\", is once again present.\n\nThe colour scheme for the drones used in the second film is essentially the same as that used for the television versions at the time, being silver with grey shoulders, natural aluminium collars and slats, blue hemispheres and a black fender. The narrative fails to establish a precise hierarchy for the Dalek commanders seen in the film. The leader of the expeditionary force appears to be a gold Dalek with natural aluminium collars and slats, black hemispheres and a black fender. A black Dalek with gold hemispheres, natural aluminium collars and slats and a black fender is in charge of a mining operation in Bedfordshire, while a red Dalek with natural aluminium collars and slats and a black fender with red topping is shown commanding a Dalek spaceship and operations to capture human slaves and wipe-out the resistance. Drones sport blue dome lights, the black and red Daleks have red dome lights and the gold Dalek has yellow dome lights. As for the first film, the Dalek props were constructed by Shawcraft Engineering.\n\nDaleks with unique characteristics have appeared in stage productions consisting of both original works and adaptations of serials from the \"Doctor Who\" television programme. In addition to the professional productions detailed below a number of amateur presentations have been staged. These include \"Doctor Who and the Daleks in the Seven Keys to Doomsday\" (Porirua Little Theatre, Titahi Bay, Porirua, New Zealand, 1984), \"The Evil of the Daleks\" (New Theatre Royal, Portsmouth, England, 2006) and \"The Daleks' Master Plan\" (New Theatre Royal, Portsmouth, England, 2007).\n\n\"The Curse of the Daleks\" was a stage play written by David Whitaker and Terry Nation which appeared for one month at the Wyndham's Theatre in London, England beginning on 21 December 1965.\n\nFive Daleks were used in the production; four silver/grey drones and a black version. Built by Shawcraft, the manufacturers of the original TV and Movie props, they were of the basic Mark 1 Movie Dalek design but with fenders, dome lights and guns of the type seen on TV Daleks at the time.\n\n\"Doctor Who and the Daleks in the Seven Keys to Doomsday\" was a stage play written by Terrance Dicks which ran at the Adelphi Theatre in London, England for four weeks beginning on 16 December 1974.\n\nFive Daleks were created for the play by Philip Poole and Phillip Alleston under the guidance of model maker, sculptor and film designer Allister Bowtell. They were of a similar design to the Supreme Dalek from \"Planet of the Daleks\", having flat-edged neck rings, a strutless neck bin and an enlarged fender. Turn-indicator style lights were used, with the gun stick rods being thinner and more angular than those fitted to either the TV or film variants.\n\nContemporary publicity photographs show Trevor Martin, the actor portraying Doctor Who in the play, posing with the \"Planet of the Daleks\" Supreme and a Mark 2 Movie Dalek, with the latter prop displaying various alterations to its dome lights and appendages. Neither of these props actually appeared in the stage production.\n\n\"Doctor Who – The Ultimate Adventure\" was a stage play written by Terrance Dicks. It toured Great Britain, appearing at twenty theatres between April and August 1989.\n\nFour blue/grey drones and a Black Dalek (credited as \"The Chief Dalek\") appeared in the play. Specific design differences from the television version of the time included a skirt section flared more to the sides and less to the front and rear, a single vertical column of hemispheres on the skirt side panels and a higher fender. The props had large, rectangular dome lights, a bottom neck ring which protruded beyond the shoulder line, and lacked both eye discs and slats. These Daleks also featured a dome that was a true hemisphere rather than the usual bevelled design and a single, oblong appendage box running across the front of the body.\n\nA Dalek Emperor prop was also created, being a scaled-down but otherwise faithful reproduction of the version that appeared in \"The Evil of the Daleks\" with the addition of large wing-like structures to the sides. The Dalek props used in the production were built by the theatrical suppliers Suffolk Scenery.\n\nVarious writers and artists have created new Dalek variants for media other than television, film and the theatre. The depiction of Daleks with coloured casings has also been used to indicate rank, although these differentiations do not constitute separate variants as such. Of particular note in this respect is John Peel's BBC Books \"Doctor Who\" novel \"War of the Daleks\" in which grey, blue, red, black and gold Daleks are described as having successively higher status, all serving under the Dalek Prime. Other examples are the \"TV21\" Dalek comic strip in which a Black Dalek is shown acting as second-in-command to the Golden Emperor, and Trevor Baxendale's novel \"Prisoner of the Daleks\" where a Dalek Inquisitor General is described as being of the \"New Series\" design but having a casing of gunmetal black with gold slats and hemispheres.\n\nThe concept of an Emperor Dalek was first introduced in \"The Dalek Book\" (1964), re-appearing shortly thereafter in the \"TV21\" comic strip \"The Daleks\" (1965 – 1967).\n\nIn the comic strip version of events the planet Skaro was inhabited by two warring humanoid species; the tall, peaceful Thals and the aggressive blue-skinned Daleks. The Daleks build a neutron bomb to finally destroy the Thals and bring the conflict to an end. A meteorite storm causes the device to detonate prematurely, devastating Skaro and the planet's civilisations. The only survivors of the Dalek race are the scientist Yarvelling and the warlord Zolfian. While exploring the shattered remains of their world they are attacked, and then interrogated, by a prototype war machine which Yarvelling had created shortly before the holocaust. It is implied that these machines were intended to act as semi-autonomous robotic warriors. It informs them that it is actually a mutated Dalek, the result of radiation from the neutron bomb explosion, which has commandeered the casing to use as a travel machine. It says that there are many more mutants and persuades Yarvelling and Zolfian to build more casings to house them. Before the last two humanoid Daleks die, exhausted by their labours and the effects of radiation, it appoints itself as Emperor and has a special casing constructed to reflect its new rank, made from \"...Flidor gold, Quartz and Arkellis flower sap...\". The Golden Emperor is usually depicted as being slightly shorter than a standard Dalek with a disproportionately large spherical head section.\n\nThe title page of \"The Dalek Book\" lists three contributing illustrators; Richard Jennings, John Woods and A.B. Cornwell. As none of the stories are individually credited it is uncertain which artist or artists first developed the Golden Emperor design. Two illustrators provided interpretations of the Golden Emperor for the \"TV21\" comic strip; Jennings again, and Ron Turner who superseded him in later instalments.\n\n\"The Dalek Book\" (1964) is notable, although not unique, in portraying a Dalek variant which has a \"speaker grille\" set centrally on the chest and, occasionally, a stylised numeral on the dome. Neither of these items has ever been incorporated in a Dalek variant shown on-screen.\n\nDuring rehearsals for the first \"Doctor Who\" serial in which they appeared a numbered piece of card was taped to the dome of each Dalek prop to assist the director in distinguishing them, with a tape roll being wedged behind the top front collar for safekeeping. These objects subsequently appeared in reference photographs of the Daleks provided by the BBC to merchandise producers, with the illustrators of \"The Dalek Book\" interpreting them as speaker grilles and insignia. Shortly after the publication of this volume other merchandise and packaging appeared featuring Daleks with the speaker grille design element. These included Dalek board games, bagatelle, \"Cutta-Mastic\" polystyrene sculpting sets, marble mazes and a ray gun torch.\n\nA Dalek Emperor, described as being similar that seen in \"The Evil of the Daleks\", appears in the Telos novella \"The Dalek Factor\" (2004) by Simon Clark. It is referred to as \"an Emperor\", implying there is more than one during the period in which the story is set.\n\nA Dalek Prime is referred to in several of the novels based on \"Doctor Who\" serials (\"The Chase\", \"The Daleks' Master Plan\", \"The Power of the Daleks\", \"The Evil of the Daleks\"). It is also mentioned in John Peel's Eighth Doctor novels, \"War of the Daleks\" (1997) and \"Legacy of the Daleks\" (1998). Although portrayed as being a leader its precise position in the Dalek hierarchy is not made clear. In \"War of the Daleks\" its description closely matches that of the \"TV21\" Golden Emperor.\n\nThe Dalek Time Controller features in the Big Finish Productions Doctor Who audio dramas \"Patient Zero\" (2009), \"Lucie Miller\" (2011), \"To the Death\" (2011), \"Dark Eyes\" (2012), \"Dark Eyes 2\" (2014), \"Dark Eyes 4\" (2015) and the novel \"The Dalek Generation\" (2013). It is portrayed as being genetically engineered to have an enhanced perception of the space-time vortex, enabling it to direct Dalek strategies involving time travel while limiting temporal destabilisation. The novel describes it as the ultimate form of Dalek life, able to command even the Dalek Supreme, and having a neck bin encircled by diagonally revolving rings of vortex energy. The Dalek Time Controller is voiced in the audio productions by actor Nicholas Briggs.\n\nFour of the Target Books \"Doctor Who\" serial novelisations were translated into Japanese by Yukio Sekiguchi and published in 1980 by Hayakawa Bunko books. These included Doctor Who and the Daleks as and Doctor Who and the Day of the Daleks as Artist Michiaki Sato was commissioned to provide illustrations for these volumes.\n\nUnlike other comic book and graphic artists whose work, however stylised, usually presents relatively minor variations to the standard Dalek form, Sato's renderings show a unique Dalek variant which is a radical departure from the recognised design. Possible reasons for this include lack of access to source material, the Japanese publishers having no rights to the use of the Dalek image and the artist simply being allowed the free rein of his imagination.\n\nMarine Daleks, introduced in the novel \"War of the Daleks\" (1997), are torpedo-shaped with their eye at the front and have a gun stick and grappling arm parallel to their body. They are stated to be larger than standard Daleks.\n\nThe 1964 \"The Dalek Book\" story \"The Monsters of Gurnian\", written by Terry Nation and David Whittaker, features bipedal Marsh Daleks which are used to keep in check the Horrorkons; two headed plesiosaur-like creatures which inhabit the swamps of the planet Gurnian. As none of the stories or artwork in the book are individually credited it is unknown which of the contributing artists developed the Marsh Dalek design. Marsh Daleks are also referenced briefly in Marc Platt's \"Doctor Who\" novel \"Lungbarrow\" (1997), in which it is said that during the 26th century humans fought and disabled them by shooting at their legs with high-impulse carbines.\n\nThe Predator Dalek features in the Doctor Who novel \"Engines of War\" (2014), written by George Mann. It is stated to be a prototype created to make a perfect Dalek during The Last Great Time War. This is to be accomplished by capturing the War Doctor, removing his memory and emotions to leave only his creativity, and then integrating him with its technology. It is described as being of the standard \"New Series\" Dalek design but twice as large, with a deep, metallic vermillion skirt and black hemispheres. The plan is foiled when the Predator Dalek is destroyed, together with the Dalek fleet, by the War Doctor and the Time Lord Borusa.\n\nAppearing briefly in the comic strip \"Emperor of the Daleks\" (1993), written by John Freeman and Paul Cornell, Psyche Daleks are depicted with a large mass of green brain tissue contained within a transparent sphere that sits on top of the shoulder section in place of the normal neck bin and dome. In the story a Psyche Dalek is used to control a small group of partially robotised prisoners through a remote device mounted on its arm in place of a plunger. The comic strip was drawn by Lee Sullivan.\n\nIn Ben Aaronovitch's novelisation of \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (1990) the Imperial Dalek faction use Scout Daleks which are described as being more powerful and streamlined than standard Daleks.\n\nSpider Daleks were a variant proposed by John Leekley for an aborted \"Doctor Who\" television movie to be produced by Amblin Entertainment in 1994. Spider Daleks directly based on the Amblin production concept sketches were eventually used in the comic strip \"Fire and Brimstone\" (1997) in which they are presented as a radically different form of Dalek from a parallel universe. The strip was drawn by Martin Geraghty and Robin Smith. In John Peel's novel \"War of the Daleks\" (1997) they are depicted as creations of Davros and described as being slightly larger than a standard Dalek, with eight legs emerging from the lower half. They are said to have greater manoeuvrability than standard Daleks, at the cost of being more vulnerable at their joints.\n\nGiant versions of the Spider Dalek, known as Striders, are mentioned in John Peel's novel \"War of the Daleks\" (1997). They are said to be ten times larger than a standard Spider Dalek and equipped with additional weapons.\n\nThe Klade are a people from the distant future in Lance Parkin's BBC Eighth Doctor novel \"Father Time\" (2001) and the Miranda spin-off comics (2003). Although physically humanoid they share many cultural characteristics with the Daleks and appear to regard Dalek history as their own. Their name is both an anagram of \"Dalek\", as \"Dalek\" is itself of \"Kaled\" and a play on the biological term \"clade\", being a group of species sharing a common ancestor. They are \"...the super-evolved descendants of the Daleks\", the implication being that, like the Thals, their mutation has come \"full circle\" and returned them to a humanoid form.\n\nThe Skaro Degradations are first mentioned in the Doctor Who television serial \"The End of Time\" (2009), where the Tenth Doctor says they were one of the horrors of The Last Great Time War. They later appear in the War Doctor novel \"Engines of War\" (2014) by George Mann, described as being unstable and unpredictable abominations created by Dalek experiments to retro-evolve their own genome. Three types are mentioned in the book. Glider Degradations travel by hovering above the ground. The Dalek mutant is housed in a clear, reinforced compartment set beneath a standard Dalek dome and resembles a limbless, humanoid torso. Mechanical arms and energy weapons are located on both sides of the casing. Spider Degradations are egg-shaped with red and black hemispheres, move on three legs and are armed with four energy weapons. Temporal Weapon Degradations are similar to Special Weapons Daleks and equipped with a temporal cannon capable of erasing its victims from history.\n\nDaleks from an alternate timeline appear in the E-book \"The Ripple Effect\" (2013) by Malorie Blackman. The alternate Daleks are portrayed as a civilised, philosophical, peace-loving race, speaking with quiet, modulated voices and having individual names. Most of the alternate Daleks have two manipulator arms and no weapon, with only those defending Skaro from space being armed. Ultimately the Doctor discovers that the alternate timeline is unstable, causing the Universe to decay. Travelling back in time he restores the original timeline, erasing the alternate Daleks from existence.\n\nStained Glass Daleks feature in the Big Finish Productions Doctor Who audio drama \"Order of the Daleks\" (2016). They are depicted as having ornate, stained glass casings and are harboured by monks of the Brotherhood of the Black Petal on the technologically undeveloped planet Strellin. The Stained Glass Dalek concept was created by Mike Tucker, with the cover artwork for the audio production being designed and rendered by Chris Thompson.\n\nAppearing at the climax of \"City of the Daleks\" (2010), the first instalment of the video game , the New Paradigm Dalek Emperor is almost identical to the New Series Emperor Dalek seen in the 2005 episode The Parting of the Ways. Notable differences are the dome and eye assembly, which are of the New Paradigm design, and a blue colour scheme.\n\nFeatured in the video game (2012), this version of the Dalek Emperor first appears as a large, levitating, purple sphere, studded with silver hemispheres. This is shown to be a shell which can expand and split into sixteen vertical segments, positionable to form a defensive barrier. The internal structure is mainly of the New Paradigm design, consisting of a large dome incorporating a foreshortened eye stalk and thin, extended dome lights, supported by an inverted neck bin. Below this a conical metallic structure tapers downward towards a circular, rotating weapons platform to which it is connected by an energy field. Arranged evenly around the edge of the platform are three \"New Series\" Dalek style gun sticks.\n\n\"Lost in the Dark Dimension\" was the working title of a feature-length BBC \"Doctor Who\" episode, planned to celebrate the programme's thirtieth anniversary. Chris Fitzgerald at Jim Henson's Creature Shop was engaged to redesign the Special Weapons Dalek for the production. A sketch of the proposed variant was produced at the time by BBC artist Alan Marshall. Notable differences from a standard Dalek include a substantially enlarged fender, an enhanced midsection featuring two large shoulder-mounted cannon and a foreshortened neck bin encircled by three thick neck rings. Programme development commenced in June 1992 and was officially cancelled in July 1993, with the BBC citing financial and logistical reasons. Although a Dark Dimension Dalek prop was never constructed by the BBC it has become the subject of a number of illustrations and a full size version built by a fan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58196108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58196108", "title": "Death and legacy of Tom Thomson", "text": "Death and legacy of Tom Thomson\n\nThe death of Tom Thomson, the Canadian painter, occurred on 8 July 1917, on Canoe Lake in Algonquin Provincial Park in Nipissing District, Ontario, Canada. After Thomson drowned in the water, his upturned canoe was discovered later that afternoon and his body eight days later. Many theories regarding Thomson's death—including that he was murdered or committed suicide—have become popular in the years since his death, though these ideas lack any substantiation.\n\nThomson stands tall as a figure in Canadian art. His later work has had a profound influence on both the artists contemporary to him as well as those coming much later. Paintings such as \"The Jack Pine\" and \"The West Wind\" have taken a prominent place in the culture of Canada and are some of the country's most iconic pieces of art. In addition to his prominence as an artist, he has developed a reputation as an ideal Canadian outdoorsman, proficient in canoeing and fishing, though his talents in the former have come to be doubted.\n\nThough he is most known for his painting, Tom Thomson is often mythologized as a veritable outdoorsman. He was taken out of school at an early age, possibly due to a lung condition. This afforded him time to explore wooded areas and develop a deep appreciation for nature. He spent much of his time on walks with his grandmother's first cousin, Dr. William Brodie, a well known entomologist, ornithologist and botanist. He similarly developed a love for both fishing and hunting, though he eventually gave up hunting after shooting a deer \"as the look in its eyes was too human.\"\n\nDr. James MacCallum contributed stories to Thomson's image as an outdoorsman, including one story that Thomson encountered a large wolf who, after sniffing him briefly, left him alone. He further wrote, \n\nThomson has often been remembered as an expert canoeist. David Silcox has argued that this image is likely romanticized. A. Y. Jackson wrote that Thomson \"paddled like an Indian,\" holding his abilities in high esteem. Despite this, Park ranger Mark Robinson said that Thomson admitted to him in 1913 that he did not know much about canoeing. In addition, there are multiple stories of him capsizing. In 1912, after hearing that Thomson had capsized and lost most of his supplies on a canoeing trip up the Mississagi River, friend John McRuer replied saying, \"You might have been drowned you devil; and that was not the first time you were bumped, eh!\"\n\nDespite these romantic images, an area that Thomson was no doubt proficient in was fishing. The deep love of fishing he developed while young remained for his entire life, so much so that his reputation through Algonquin Park was equally divided between art and angling. While most who visited the Park were led by hired guides, Thomson moved through on his own. Indeed, many of his fishing locations appear in his work. Upon visiting Canoe Lake for the first time in 1914, A. Y. Jackson wrote to J. E. H. MacDonald, \"It appears that Tom Thomson is some fisherman, quite noted round here.\"\n\nFrom 1914 onward, Thomson regularly traveled to Algonquin Park in the spring, either camping on Canoe Lake or staying at the Mowat Lodge hotel. He spent his time there sketching and working as a fishing guide, returning to Toronto in the fall, producing larger canvas works from his original sketches. In 1917 Thomson returned to Canoe Lake at the beginning of April, arriving early enough to paint the remaining snow and the ice breaking up on the surrounding lakes. The paintings became his own visual diary of the day, morphing into a series that he described as, \"a record of the weather for 62 days, rain or shine, or snow, dark or bright.\" He wrote home to his father saying that, though he had not sold many sketches that year, that he thought he could \"get along for another year at least while I stick to painting as long as I can.\" In his final letter to MacCallum—sent only one day before his disappearance—he complained of flies and mosquitoes. He had not done much sketching since they emerged but was hopeful the warmer weather would soon kill them off. He promised to send along some of his winter sketches and was looking forward to sketching on several trips planned for the next two months.\n\nThe works he completed over this spring display the masterful control of colour he had come to develop—especially apparent in a painting like \"The Rapids\"—and are painted with a particular \"crispness and freshness.\" His sketches in particular show how he matured into \"a subtlety of expression, using a brisk but delicate handling.\" The bold and expressive brushstrokes that he is now famous for are evident in paintings like \"Path Behind Mowat Lodge\" and \"Tea Lake Dam\". Also on display in the former are small areas of bare wood panel, visible through the paint. This device further adds to the lighting of the scene. The aggressive style of painting Thomson utilized was seen consistently in the Expressionist movement that followed his death. His final works have been described by art historians David Silcox and Harold Town as moving in the direction of abstraction. This is especially evident in what is perhaps his final work, \"After the Storm\", which, \"When viewed up close, Thomson’s thick, broad application of paint in this landscape melts into pure abstraction.\" The landscapes of his final works in late spring and early summer often contain these types of bold, generalized forms.\n\nBesides the deep love he had come to develop for Algonquin Park, Thomson was beginning to show an eagerness to depict areas beyond the park and explore other northern subjects. In a May 1917 letter to his brother-in-law, he wrote:\n\nA. Y. Jackson suggested Thomson would have traveled even further north, just as the other members of the Group of Seven eventually did.\n\nOn the morning of 8 July 1917, Thomson was seen walking to Joe Lake Dam with Shannon Fraser, the owner of the Mowat Lodge. He often spent his night there when the park proved too cold for camping. Mark Robinson, a park ranger, noted in his diary that Thomson \"left Fraser's Dock after 12:30 pm to go to Tea Lake Dam or West Lake.\" Thomson disappeared during this canoeing trip on Canoe Lake. His upturned canoe was spotted later in the afternoon, while his body was discovered in the lake eight days later on 16 July. His watch had stopped at 12:14 and he had a four inch bruise on his right temple.\n\nThe body was examined by Dr. Goldwin Howland who concluded that the official cause of death was drowning. The coroner, Dr. Arthur E. Ranney, supported Howland's conclusion that the drowning was accidental, further writing that \"the evidence from the other six witnesses points that the cause of death was drowning.\" Regarding the four inch bruise on Thomson's temple, he wrote that, \"no doubt, [it] was caused by stricking some [obstacle], like a stone, when the body was drowned.\"\n\nThe day after the body was discovered, it was interred in Mowat Cemetery near Canoe Lake. Under the direction of Thomson's older brother George, the body was exhumed two days later and was shipped to Owen Sound. It was re-interred in the family plot beside the Leith Presbyterian Church on 21 July in what is now the Municipality of Meaford.\nWith financial assistance provided by MacCallum, on 27 September 1917 J. E. H. MacDonald, John William Beatty, Shannon Fraser, George Rowe and local residents erected a memorial cairn at Hayhurst Point on Canoe Lake, where Thomson died. Because of Thomson's deep love for the area, the Group \"had not the heart to go back to Algonquin Park, so they moved to Algoma and Lake Superior, and then to the Arctic, Yukon, Labrador, and other parts of the country.\"\n\nSince his death, Thomson's work has grown in value and popularity. Scholar Sherrill Grace has written that Thomson is a \"haunting presence\" for Canadian artists and that he \"embodies the Canadian artistic identity.\" Group of Seven member Arthur Lismer similarly wrote that \"Tom Thomson is the manifestation of the Canadian character.\"\n\nIn 2002, the National Gallery of Canada staged a major exhibition of his work, giving Thomson the same level of prominence afforded Picasso, Renoir, and the Group of Seven in previous years. As of 2009, the highest price achieved by a Thomson sketch was \"Early Spring, Canoe Lake\" (1917) which sold in 2009 for $2,749,500 (). Few major canvases remain in private collections, making the record unlikely to be broken. One example of the demand Thomson's work has achieved is the previously lost \"Sketch for Lake in Algonquin Park\" (1912/13). The painting was discovered in an Edmonton basement in 2018 and went on to sell for nearly half a million dollars at a Toronto auction. The increased value of Thomson's work has led to the discovery of numerous forgeries of his work on the market.\n\nIn the summer of 2004 another historical marker honouring Thomson was moved from its previous location nearer the centre of Leith to the graveyard in which Thomson is now buried. The grave site has become popular spot for visitors to the area with many fans of Thomson's work leaving pennies or small art supplies behind as tribute. \n\nIn 1967, the Tom Thomson Art Gallery opened in Owen Sound. In 1968 Thomson's shack from behind the Studio Building was moved to the McMichael Canadian Art Collection in Kleinburg. Numerous examples of his work are also on display at the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, the Art Gallery of Ontario, and the McMichael Canadian Art Collection in Kleinburg, Ontario. Thomson's influence can be seen in the work of later Canadian artists, including Emily Carr, Goodridge Roberts, Harold Town, and Joyce Wieland.\n\nIn the years since his death, Thomson has often been described as being independent of previous artistic traditions. Many have pointed to the fact that he never visited Europe or museums in the United States as evidence that he managed to avoid the developments of Modernist experiment. Thomson's lack of formal art education similarly caused the other members of the group to later see him as a natural, untainted artist, and this view has entered the myth and public perception surrounding him.\n\nDavid Silcox and Andrew Hunter have argued that these perceptions were primarily propagated by his friends, those who formed the Group of Seven in the years following his death and others in the Canadian art scene, nearly all of whom relied on the same basic details in their treatments of Thomson's life and career. Lismer, for example, wrote, \"[Thomson] had no connection with styles or schools... He had nothing to do with Europe and in his art there is not a trace of inherited style or influence from abroad... If one knew Thomson, one also realized that he knew nothing of such as things as <nowiki>[</nowiki>Art Nouveau or Impressionism<nowiki>]</nowiki>.\" Jackson similarly wrote that Thomson's \"rugged individuality was never dominated by any outside influence,\" and that Thomson was the \"Instigator of the movement to the North Country.\" Lawren Harris echoed these views, saying \"There was nothing that interfered with Tom's direct, primal vision of nature. He was completely innocent of any of the machinery of civilization and was happiest when away from it in the north.\" Barker Fairley wrote that, \"Neither theory nor any acquired opinion can have had any permanent place in Thomson's mind. He was naïve throughout.\" Harold Mortimer-Lamb wrote, \"With his equipment he went to Nature and communed with her in all her moods.\" Blodwen Davies wrote, \"Through the story of painting in Canada there stalks a tall, lean trailsman, with his sketch box and paddle, an artist and dreamer who made the wilderness his cloister and there worshipped Nature in her secret moods.\" F. B. Housser wrote, \"Never before had such knowledge and the feeling for such things been given to expression in paint. Thomson's canvases are unique in the annals of all art especially when it is remembered that he was untrained as a painter. His master was nature.\" In general, members of the Group claimed that their art did not originate in established artistic traditions but was instead dictated by the landscape itself. A. Y. Jackson described Thomson as \"the guide, the interpreter\" who introduced his friends to \"a new world, the north country.\" Dennis Reid argued similarly, writing that Thomson's death was seen \"almost as a sacrifice to the idea of an indigenous Canadian art... Thomson was... to become Canada's first Old Master, and as an idea he has acted as a constant inspiration to all who believed that the secret of Canada's self-knowledge is somehow contained in the land.\" Revisionist art historians have criticized the view that Thomson and the Group of Seven were originators of a new Canadian nationalist style of art.\n\nDespite the popular notion that Thomson had no formal art instruction, it is possible that he briefly studied under British artist William Cruikshank around 1905. Only two sources corroborate this however. The first is a single undated note from Cruikshank to professor James Mavor, arranging to bring a \"Tomson\" to meet him. Further complicating the matter is that the original class list no longer survives. The second is a letter from H. B. Jackson to Blodwen Davies, writing, \"Tom studied from life & the antique in art school. If I remember right Cruikshank was the instructor.\" Besides in-person instruction, it is also possible that he read John Ruskin's 1857 handbook, \"The Elements of Drawing\", while learning to draw. Outside of these possibilities, it seems that he had no other art instruction. Thomson's work in commercial art however did seem to have an influence on his painting, leading him to familiarity with the Art Nouveau as well as Arts and Crafts movements. Similarly, working with his fellow artists caused him to become aware of the techniques of Impressionism and Post-Impressionism. Regarding Art Nouveau tendencies, Jackson wrote that, \"We (the Group of Seven and Tom Thomson) treated our subjects with the freedom of designers. We tried to emphasize colour, line and pattern.\" These techniques can be seen within Thomson's work, whether it be Impressionism in \"The Pointers\" (1916–17); Art Nouveau in \"Northern River\" (1914–15), \"\" (1915–16), \"Spring Ice\" (1915–16) and \"The West Wind\" (1916–17); or Expressionism in \"After the Storm\" (1917) and \"Cranberry Marsh\" (1916).\n\nCanadian poet and member of the Montreal Group, A. J. M. Smith wrote in a letter to Sandra Djwa that it was Thomson's painting \"The Jack Pine\" that helped him get started on his poem, \"The Lonely Land.\" The poem, perhaps Smith's most known and most anthologized, was first published in \"The McGill Fortnightly Review\" on 9 January 1926, subtitled \"Group of Seven.\" It underwent several revisions, appearing in \"Canadian Forum\" in July 1927 and the American magazine \"The Dial\" in June 1929. Smith had not seen the painting in person, but only as a colour reproduction. The first stanza utilizes the texture (\"jagged,\" \"smooth\") and rhythmic movement (\"sharp,\" \"bitter,\" \"barbs\") of a painting as it describes a northern landscape. Smith's 1925 poem \"Prayer\" proceeds similarly, even referencing a jack pine in one of the early stanzas. Several other books of poetry inspired by Thomson have also been published, including George Whipple's \"Tom Thomson and Other Poems\" (2000), Troy Jollimore's \"Tom Thomson in Purgatory\" (2006), and Kevin Irie's \"Viewing Tom Thomson: A Minority Report\" (2012).\n\nJoyce Wieland's 1976 film \"The Far Shore\" is based on the life and death of Tom Thomson. Journalist Roy MacGregor's 1980 novel \"Shorelines\"—later reissued in 2002 as \"Canoe Lake\"—is a fictional interpretation of Thomson's death. Neil Lehto's 2005 book \"Algonquin Elegy\" is a self-described piece of historical fiction, focusing on Thomson's death. Several songs reference Thomson's death, including The Tragically Hip's 1991 single \"Three Pistols.\"\n\nIn 2018, a section of Ontario Highway 60—the primary corridor through Algonquin Park—was renamed \"Tom Thomson Parkway.\" Canada Post has issued multiple stamps of Thomson's work from as early as 1967. Works depicted have included \"The Jack Pine\" (printed in 1967), \"April in Algonquin Park\" (1977), \"Autumn Birches\" (1977), \"The West Wind\" (1990) and \"In the Northland\" (2016).\n\nMany alternate theories have swirled around the nature of Tom Thomson's death, including that he was murdered or committed suicide. Though these ideas lack substantiation, they have continued to persist in the popular culture. Andrew Hunter has pointed to Robinson as being largely responsible for the suggestion that there was more to Thomson's death than accidental drowning. Hunter expanded on this thought, writing, \"...I am convinced that people's desire to believe the Thomson murder mystery/soap opera is rooted in the firmly fixed idea that he was an expert woodsman, intimate with nature. Such figures aren't supposed to die by \"accident.\" If they do, it is like Grey Owl's being exposed as an Englishman.\"\n\nIn 1935, Blodwen Davies published the first exploration of Thomson's death outside of newspaper accounts from the time of Thomson's death. A self-published edition of 500 copies, her doubts about the official decision of cause of death sold poorly. In 1970, Judge William Little's book, \"The Tom Thomson Mystery\", recounted how in 1956 Little and three friends dug up Thomson's original gravesite in Mowat Cemetery on Canoe Lake. They believed that the remains they found were Thomson's. In the fall of 1956, medical investigators determined that the body was that of an unidentified Aboriginal. Canadian newspaper columnist Roy MacGregor has described his 2009 examination of records of the 1956 remains unearthed by William Little (the remains have been reburied or lost) and concluded that the body was actually Thomson's, indicating \"that Thomson never left Canoe Lake.\"\n\nDavid Silcox and Harold Town have pointed out incorrect evidence being used to justify the belief that Thomson was murdered. Chief among these is that Thomson's feet were found tangled in wire. This claim is a misinterpretation of Robinson's original observation that the body had a carefully bound fishing line around a sprained ankle, actually a common a remedy for arthritis or a sore joint. Silcox has proposed that it is easy to imagine Thomson standing in his canoe to cast a fishing line, losing his balance in the process, hitting his head on the gunwale and falling into the water unconscious only to drown.\n\nIn an essay entitled, \"The Many Deaths of Tom Thomson,\" published in 2011, Gregory Klages describes how testimony and theories regarding Thomson's death have evolved since 1917. Assessing the secondary accounts against the primary evidence, Klages concludes that Thomson's death is consistent with the official assessment of an accidental drowning. Historians Kathleen Garay and Christl Verduyn state, \"Klages' forensic archival sleuthing does provide for the first time some degree of certainty regarding this event.\" Klages expanded on these ideas in a book with a similar name, \"The Many Deaths of Tom Thomson: Separating Fact from Fiction\", published in 2016. He particularly challenges MacGregor's claims, suggesting MacGregor is guilty of misrepresenting evidence.\n\nThomson produced roughly three dozen sketches in his final spring. His landscapes illustrate several snowy scenes in Algonquin Park and indicate an increasing fascination in birch trees.\n\nPrimary sources\n\nSecondary sources\n\n"}
{"id": "7495774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7495774", "title": "Death of Salvador Allende", "text": "Death of Salvador Allende\n\nOn September 11, 1973, Salvador Allende, President of Chile, died of self-inflicted gunshot wounds during a coup d'état led by the Chilean Army Commander-in-Chief Augusto Pinochet. After decades of suspicions that Allende might have been assassinated by the Chilean Armed Forces, a Chilean court in 2011 authorized the exhumation and autopsy of Allende's remains. A team of international experts examined the remains and concluded that Allende had shot himself with an AK-47 assault rifle. In December 2011, the judge in charge of the investigation affirmed the experts' findings and ruled Allende's death a suicide. On September 11, 2012, the 39th anniversary of Allende's death, a Chilean appeals court unanimously upheld the trial court's ruling, officially closing the case.\n\nAccording to Isabel Allende Bussi—the daughter of Salvador Allende and currently a member of the Chilean Senate—the Allende family has long accepted that the former President shot himself, telling the BBC that: \"The report conclusions are consistent with what we already believed. When faced with extreme circumstances, he made the decision of taking his own life, instead of being humiliated.\"\n\nOn September 11, 1973, just prior to the capture of the Palacio de La Moneda (the presidential palace) by military units loyal to Pinochet, President Salvador Allende made his famous to Chileans on live radio (\"Radio Magallanes\"). The president spoke of his love for Chile and of his deep faith in its future. He also stated that, as he was committed to Chile, he would not take an easy way out or be used as a propaganda tool by those he called \"traitors\" (accepting an offer of safe passage, like Carlos Altamirano). The radio address was made while gunfire and explosions were clearly audible in the background.\n\nShortly afterwards, an official announcement declared that he had gone to war with an AK-47 rifle. Allende's corpse was carried out of Palacio de La Moneda wrapped in a Bolivian poncho by soldiers and fire fighters.\n\nHis body was sent to Hospital Militar arriving about 17:30. Among those present during the autopsy was one of Allende's former classmates in university. The autopsy also recorded his death as a suicide.\n\nAllende's weapon was purportedly given to him as a gift by Fidel Castro. It bore a golden plate engraved: \"To my good friend Salvador from Fidel, who by different means tries to achieve the same goals\".\n\nAt approximately 1:50 PM local time, President Allende ordered the defenders of the La Moneda Palace to surrender. The defenders then formed a line from the second floor, down the stairs and onto the Morande street door. The president went along this queue, from the ground floor up the stairs, shaking hands and thanking everyone personally for their support in that difficult moment. At the end of the queue, Allende turned toward the Independence salon, located in the north-east side of the Palace's second floor.\n\nAt the same time, Dr. Patricio Guijón (a member of La Moneda's infirmary staff) himself decided to return upstairs to recover his gas-mask as a souvenir. He heard a noise, and opened the door of the Independence salon in time to see the president shoot himself with his AK-47. From the other side of the salon and through an open door, Dr. José Quiroga, Arsenio Poupin, a member of the cabinet, Enrique Huerta, a palace functionary, two detectives from the Presidential security detail, and some GAPs (Presidential Security) were able to see the moment of death, or arrive a few seconds afterwards, attracted by the noise.\n\nAll sources seem to agree that at least the following witnesses were present:\n\nOf these witnesses, only Dr. Guijón spoke about the events immediately after they happened, and was roundly vilified for doing so. Some sources misattribute Guijón's declarations to \"Allende's personal doctor\", Enrique Paris Roa, who was at La Moneda not in his professional role but as a member of Allende's cabinet. He does not appear to have made any such statement as he was executed shortly afterwards. The other witnesses kept silent until after the restoration of democracy in Chile, as they believed (according to their own statements) that to corroborate the version of a suicide would in some measure downgrade Allende's sacrifice and lend support to the military regime.\n\nOf the two doctors from the Moneda Palace infirmary who witnessed the suicide, Patricio Guijón made a statement at the time. However, Dr. José Quiroga only confirmed the details in 1999.\n\nDuring the subsequent years of the Pinochet regime, there existed a legitimate controversy about whether plotters of the coup d'état had assassinated Allende. The definitive finding of suicide by international experts and the Chilean courts in 2011 seems to have put the controversy to rest. Almost all claims of an ongoing \"controversy\" regarding Allende's death seem to predate the 2011 investigations and the factual record left in its wake.\n\nFidel Castro, who had given President Allende the AK-47 used as the suicide weapon, provides an example of the speculation and political posturing that grew out of Allende's death and the Pinochet coup d'état. On 28 September 1973 (only two weeks after Allende's death), Castro told a Cuban crowd in Havana's \"Plaza de la Revolución\" that Allende had died in La Moneda wrapped in a Chilean flag, firing at Pinochet troops with Fidel's rifle. Over the coming decades, the Cuban leader would continue to make public addresses using this version of events.\nCastro's public statements formed the basis of Robinson Rojas' 1975 book \"The murder of Allende and the end of the Chilean way to socialism\". Rojas asserted that the Chilean president had been killed by Pinochet's military forces while defending the palace.\n\nWith the peaceful transition to democracy in Chile in 1990, the view that Allende committed suicide began to gain popular acceptance as different testimonies confirming the details of the suicide have become available in press and in documentary interviews. Likewise, members of Allende's immediate family including his wife and his daughter, have never disputed that it was a suicide. A further example of pre-2011 controversializing is found in Chilean doctor Luis Ravanal's 2008 article published in the magazine \"El Periodista\" stating that Allende's wounds were \"not compatible\" with suicide. Asked to comment on Dr. Ravanal's hypothesis, the Chilean congresswoman Isabel Allende, the President's daughter, said that the suicide version is the correct one.\n\nIn late January 2011, a Chilean judge opened an investigation into the death of Salvador Allende together with hundreds of other possible human rights abuses committed during the 1973 coup that brought Augusto Pinochet to power. In May, Allende's remains were exhumed by order of a Chilean court in furtherance of a \"criminal investigation into the death of Allende.\" On May 31, 2011, before the court-ordered autopsy had been completed, Chile's state television station reported that a top-secret military account of Allende's death had been discovered in the home of a former military justice official. The 300-page document was only found when the house was destroyed in the 2010 Chilean earthquake. After reviewing the report, two forensic experts told TVN \"that they are inclined to conclude that Allende was assassinated.\"\n\nResults of the autopsy were officially released in mid-July 2011. The team of Chilean medical experts conducting and reviewing the autopsy results confirmed that Salvador Allende had died from self-inflicted gunshot wounds. The autopsy results indicated that Allende had died after shooting himself with an AK-47 received as a gift from Fidel Castro. The shots tore off the top of Allende's head, killing him instantly, because the rifle had been set to automatic fire. \"The Guardian\", a leading UK newspaper, reported that the \"scientific autopsy\" had confirmed that \"Salvador Allende committed suicide during the 1973 coup that toppled his socialist government.\" According to \"The Guardian\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3603030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3603030", "title": "Dorcas", "text": "Dorcas\n\nDorcas (, \"Dorkás\"; \"Ṭabītā\") was a disciple who lived in Joppa, referenced in the Acts of the Apostles () in the New Testament. Her name in the Textus Receptus is \"Ταβιθά\" (Tabitha).\n\nIn October 25he Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates Saint Tabitha the Widow, raised from the dead by the Apostle Peter.\n\nActs recounts that when she died, she was mourned by \"all the widows...crying and showing (Peter) the robes and other clothing that she had made while she was still with them\" (Acts 9:39). The Greek construct used in this passage indicates that the widows were the recipients of her charity, but she may also have been a widow herself. It is likely that she was a woman of some means, given her ability to help the poor. The disciples present called upon Peter, who came from nearby Lydda to the place where her body was being laid out for burial, and raised her from the dead.\n\nThis narrative concerning Tabitha/Dorcas indicates her prominence in the community at Joppa. This might also be indicated by the fact that Peter took the trouble to come to her from a neighbouring city, when requested by the community members.\n\nThe name \"Dorcas\" is a Greek translation of the Aramaic name \"Tabitha\", meaning \"gazelle\". One species of gazelle is now known as the dorcas gazelle.\n\nDorcas, along with Lydia of Thyatira and Phoebe, is honored with a feast day on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America on January 27. The Evangelical Lutheran Church also places their joint commemoration on January 27, immediately after the male missionaries remembered after the feast of St. Paul's Conversion, but the Lutheran Church Missouri Synod (LCMS) commemorates these three faithful women on October 25. The Catholic Church commemorates Dorcas (under the Aramaic version of her name, St Tabitha) on October 25, the same date as the Eastern Church. Dorcas societies, which provide clothing to the poor, are named after her.\nBasil of Caesarea refers to Dorcas as an example in his \"Morals\" (rule 74): \"That a widow who enjoys sufficiently robust health should spend her life in works of zeal and solicitude, keeping in mind the words of the Apostle and the example of Dorcas.\" She is also commemorated in poems by Robert Herrick (\"The Widows' Tears: Or, Dirge of Dorcas\") and George MacDonald (\"Dorcas\").\n\nDepictions of Dorcas in art can be found as early as the fourth century, and her raising is often included in Medieval and Renaissance illustrations of the life of Saint Peter.\n\nDorcas' acts of charity are a common subject of stained glass church windows. She is represented in a window in the apse of Christ Church, Bath, on the south side of St Peter's Church, Caversham, in St. Andrew's Church, Cheddar, in the sacristy of Calvary Episcopal Church (Pittsburgh), in Llandaff Cathedral in Cardiff, in St Leonard's Church, Bridgnorth, in Castleton Parish Church in Derbyshire, on the north side of St. Nicholas' church in Castle Hedingham in Essex, in the Ladychapel of St Michael's Church in Mytholmroyd, West Yorkshire, and in an oriel window at the Head Office of the Retail Trust in north London.\n\nThe Lady chapel of St Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin has a window of Dorcas with the legend: \"Dorcas this woman was full of good works and almsdeeds\". Christ Church, St. Joseph, Missouri, depicts her holding a blue cloth in a prominent nave window (1885) on the south side. Grace and Holy Trinity Episcopal Church in Richmond, Virginia has her in a window made in Germany around 1890.\n\nDorcas and Cornelius are represented on the stained glass windows above the altar in the Emmanuel Anglican Church in Lawson, New South Wales. In the church of St. Lawrence, Weston under Penyard, Herefordshire, she is depicted with St. Paul in a pair of stained glass windows dedicated to the memory of Edward Burdett Hawkshaw, the Rector from 1854-1912, and his wife, Catherine (a photograph nearby in the church shows that his likeness is the face given to St. Paul, while Dorcas has the face of Mrs. Hawkshaw).\n"}
{"id": "36594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36594", "title": "Ed White (astronaut)", "text": "Ed White (astronaut)\n\nEdward Higgins White II (November 14, 1930 – January 27, 1967), (Lt Col, USAF), was an American aeronautical engineer, U.S. Air Force officer, test pilot, and NASA astronaut. On June 3, 1965, he became the first American to walk in space. White died along with astronauts Virgil \"Gus\" Grissom and Roger B. Chaffee during prelaunch testing for the first manned Apollo mission at Cape Canaveral. He was awarded the NASA Distinguished Service Medal for his flight in Gemini 4 and was then awarded the Congressional Space Medal of Honor posthumously.\n\nWhite was born on November 14, 1930, in San Antonio, Texas, to parents Edward Higgins White Sr. (1901–1978), who became a major general in the U.S. Air Force, and Mary Rosina White (; 1900–1983). He attended school in his hometown and became a member of the Boy Scouts of America, where he earned the rank of Second Class Scout. After graduation from high school in 1948, he was accepted to the United States Military Academy at West Point, where in 1952 he earned his Bachelor of Science degree and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Air Force. Then, he attended flight school, a course that takes just over a year. Following graduation from flight school in 1953, White was assigned to the 22nd Fighter Day Squadron at Bitburg Air Base, West Germany. He spent three and a half years in West Germany flying in F-86 Sabre and F-100 Super Sabre squadrons in the defense of NATO.\n\nAfter graduating from West Point, White competed for a spot on the U.S. Olympic team in the 400 meter hurdles race. He missed making the team by only 1/10 second. His hobbies included squash, handball, swimming, golf, and photography.\n\nIn 1958, White enrolled in the University of Michigan under Air Force sponsorship to study Aeronautical Engineering, where he received his Master of Science degree in 1959. Following graduation, White was selected to attend the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School at Edwards Air Force Base, California. He earned his credentials as a test pilot in 1959 and was assigned to the Aeronautical Systems Division at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. During his career, White would log more than 3,000 flight hours with the Air Force, including about 2,200 hours in jets, and would ultimately attain the rank of lieutenant colonel.\n\nIn 1953, White married Patricia Finegan, whom he met while at West Point. The Whites would have two children, Edward White III (born September 16, 1953) and Bonnie Lynn White (born May 15, 1956). White was a devout Methodist.\n\nWhite was one of nine men chosen as part of the second group of astronauts in 1962. Within an already elite group, White was considered to be a high-flier by the management of NASA. He was chosen as Pilot of Gemini 4, with Command Pilot James McDivitt. White became the first American to make a walk in space, on June 3, 1965. He found the experience so exhilarating that he was reluctant to terminate the EVA at the allotted time, and had to be ordered back into the spacecraft. While he was outside, a spare thermal glove floated away through the open hatch of the spacecraft, becoming an early piece of space debris in low Earth orbit, until it burned up upon re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere. There was a mechanical problem with the hatch mechanism, which made it difficult to open and to relatch, which added to the time constraint of the spacewalk, and could have threatened the lives of both men if McDivitt had been unable to get the hatch latched, as they could not re-enter the atmosphere with an unsealed hatch.\n\nWhite's next assignment after Gemini 4 was as the backup for Gemini 7 Command Pilot Frank Borman. He was also named the astronaut specialist for the flight control systems of the Apollo Command/Service Module. By the usual procedure of crew rotation in the Gemini program, White would have been in line for a second flight as the command pilot of Gemini 10 in July 1966, which would have made him the first of his group to fly twice.\n\nIn March 1966 he was selected as senior pilot (second seat) for the first manned Apollo flight, designated AS-204, along with Command Pilot Virgil \"Gus\" Grissom, who had flown in space on the Mercury 4 \"Liberty Bell 7\" mission and as commander of the Gemini 3 \"Molly Brown\" mission, and Pilot Roger Chaffee, who had yet to fly into space. The mission, which the men named \"Apollo 1\" in June, was originally planned for late 1966 (perhaps concurrent with the last Gemini mission), but delays in the spacecraft development pushed the launch into 1967.\n\nThe launch of Apollo 1 was planned for February 21, 1967. The crew entered the spacecraft on January 27, mounted atop its Saturn IB booster on Launch Pad 34 at Cape Kennedy, for a \"plugs-out\" test of the spacecraft, which included a rehearsal of the launch countdown procedure. Midway through the test, a fire broke out in the pure oxygen-filled cabin, killing all three men.\n\nWhite's job was to open the hatch cover in an emergency, which he apparently tried to do; his body was found in his center seat, with his arms reaching over his head toward the hatch. Removing the cover to open the hatch was impossible, because the plug door design required venting normally slightly greater-than-atmospheric pressure and pulling the cover into the cabin. Grissom was unable to reach the cabin vent control to his left, where the fire's source was located. The intense heat raised the cabin pressure even more, to the point where the cabin walls ruptured. The astronauts were killed by asphyxiation and smoke inhalation.\n\nThe fire's ignition source was determined to be a spark that jumped from a wire on the far left of the spacecraft, under Grissom's seat, but their deaths were attributed to a wide range of lethal hazards in the early Apollo Command Module design and workmanship and conditions of the test, including the highly pressurized 100% oxygen pre-launch atmosphere, many wiring and plumbing flaws, flammable materials used in the cockpit and the astronauts' flight suits, and a hatch which could not be quickly opened in an emergency. After the incident, these problems were fixed, and the Apollo program carried on successfully to reach its objective of landing men on the Moon.\n\nWhite was buried with full military honors at West Point Cemetery while Grissom and Chaffee are both buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nIn 1997, White was posthumously awarded the Congressional Space Medal of Honor. White was inducted into the U.S. Astronaut Hall of Fame in 1993 and the National Aviation Hall of Fame on July 18, 2009.\n\nWhite's wife Patricia remarried and continued to reside in Houston. On September 7, 1983, she committed suicide after surgery earlier in the year to remove a tumor.\n\nHe was a member of the Society of Experimental Test Pilots; associate member of Institute of Aerospace Sciences; Tau Delta Phi (Engineering Honorary); and Sigma Delta Psi (Athletic Honorary).\n\n\nMany schools have been named in honor of Lt Colonel White:\n\n\n\n\nThe Omega Speedmaster wristwatch reference 105.003 has come to be known as the \"Ed White\" as this reference was worn by White during his spacewalk. The Speedmaster remains the only watch qualified by NASA for EVA use.\n\nWhite was played by Steven Ruge in the 1995 film \"Apollo 13\", by Chris Isaak in the 1998 HBO miniseries \"From the Earth to the Moon\", and by Matt Lanter in the 2015 ABC TV series \"The Astronaut Wives Club\". In 2018, he is portrayed by Jason Clarke in \"First Man\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2336882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336882", "title": "Edward Elric", "text": "Edward Elric\n\n, commonly nicknamed , is a fictional character and the protagonist of the \"Fullmetal Alchemist\" manga series created by Hiromu Arakawa. Edward, titled , is the youngest State Alchemist in the history of the fictional country of Amestris. His left leg was divinely severed in a failed attempt to resurrect his dead mother, and then his right arm was taken in exchange for his brother's soul. His missing limbs have been replaced with sophisticated prosthetics called . He and his younger brother, Alphonse, who lost his entire body and is spiritually bound to a suit of armor, scour the world in search of the Philosopher's Stone in the hopes of restoring their bodies. Ed has appeared in other media from the series, including video games, original video animations (OVAs) and light novels.\n\nNumerous publications in various media have been written on the subject of Edward's character. Reviewers praised Edward as a balance between the typical clever kid and the stubborn kid persona. Additionally, his comedic moments have been celebrated as some of the best moments in the series. His Japanese and English voice actors, Romi Park and Vic Mignogna, have both been praised for their performances as Edward Elric and have won several awards for their work. Numerous pieces of merchandise have been released bearing Edward's likeness, including key chains and action figures.\n\nAuthor Hiromu Arakawa integrated several social problems into the plot, such as the way Edward and Alphonse live as brothers after the death of their mother, Trisha. She also looks at how the brothers help people all over the country to gain an understanding of the meaning of family. When describing the character's personality, Arakawa comments that after his father's departure from home and his mother's death, Edward tried to replace the role of the man for the Elric family. As a result, Van Hohenheim's reappearance caused a shocking and terrified reaction in the character. Arakawa has noted that Edward is one of her favorite characters from the series, although she denied having the same personality as him when one of her assistants mentioned it.\n\nWhen comparing the two brothers during the time Alphonse obtained the ability to use alchemy without a circle like Edward, Arakawa stated nobody was better at alchemy as the two had different preferences in the same way as other alchemist appearing in the series. Although she claims she has not thought of the characters' birthdates, Arakawa noted that she decided Edward's birthdate during the series' serialization. During a chapter in which it was mentioned that Edward was about to be 16, winter was about to begin in Hokkaido, Arakawa's birthplace, so it was decided Edward's birthdate would be in winter. In a common slapstick gag from the series, Edward is often struck by Winry Rockbell's wrench. While commenting that Edward has the ability to easily dodge her, Arakawa comments that he gets hit on purpose as a result of his personality. The director of the first anime series, Seiji Mizushima, says that in the development of the story Edward \"evolves and devolves\"; Mizushima comments that Edward is continuously overcoming inner struggles in order to determine how to grow up. The appearance of his automail in the anime is used to symbolize the intangibles of his character, making viewers note that Edward lost something important.\n\nIn a prototype from the series, Edward was an eighteen-year-old teenager travelling alongside his father whose soul sealed in a flying squirrel. Edward's prototype had an average height, but retained his automail. In order to fit with the readers from the manga magazine \"Monthly Shonen Gangan\", Edward's traits were further modified, leaving his current one. His height was reduced in order to contrast with Alphonse's huge armor. In the design of the character, Arakawa is often worried about not making his automail too bulky to avoid balancing it by increasing Edward's muscles, making his appearance unsuitable for his age. She has also often drawn the character in full body length, but at one point noticed she made it too tall. As the manga continued serialization, Arakawa found that she drew Edward half naked several times even more than Alex Louis Armstrong who tends to show his torso. While stating that this was because she wanted to draw Edward's automail, she commented that it was common for men to walk in underwear at their homes.\n\nIn the Japanese version of \"Fullmetal Alchemist\"s anime adaptations, Edward has been voiced by Romi Park. In the English version, the role has been played by Vic Mignogna. Mignogna has stated that performing Edward may be his biggest voice acting achievement since fans do not compare him with Park, noting that their voices are not similar and that he did not plan to sound like her. Additionally, in the upcoming live-action of the series, Edward will be portrayed by Ryosuke Yamada. Yamada thinks his short starture might be work as an advantage due to one of Edward's most common characteristics is his low height. Studying Arakawa's manga, Yamada tried imitating Edward's other signature actions such the way he runs. A fan of the series, the actor expressed happiness with the role he was given. Nevertheless, in Anime Expo 2017 if anything from him looked \"weird\" which resulted in praise from the audience. During questions, Yamada said that one of the most difficult scenes about his acting is interacting with Alphonse as a result of the latter being CGI. As a result, in the shooting of some scenes the staff had a person in Alphonse's place so that Yamada had a better way to act.\n\nEdward was born in a small town named Resembool in the nation of Amestris, living with his younger brother Alphonse and their parents Trisha Elric and Van Hohenheim. After Hohenheim left the family on a journey early in their lives, Edward developed a loathing for their father as he and Alphonse learned to use alchemy before Trisha died of an illness years later. This two young boys concentrated on studying alchemy in the hopes of bringing their mother back to life, and trained with a skilled alchemist named Izumi Curtis. When they make the attempt to revive their mother, it failed and the brothers paid a bigger price via the Law of Equivalent Exchange: which states that every outcome requires an equal payment. \n\nEdward lost his left leg while meeting the metaphysical being known as , gaining great knowledge as well as the prodigious ability to perform transmutations just by clapping his hands together without the need of a Transmutation Circle. As Alphonse's entire being was taken by Truth, Edward uses his newly gained knowledge in sacrificing his own right arm to retrieve Alphonse's soul and bind it to a nearby suit of armor. Later meeting Colonel Roy Mustang while being outfitted prosthetic \"automail\" limbs by the grandmother of his childhood friend, Winry Rockbell, motivated to restore Alphonse, Edward joins the State Military. He becomes youngest State Alchemist, receiving the title of \"Fullmetal Alchemist\" shortly thereafter from the military head, King Bradley. For the next few years, the Elric Brothers begin an extensive search for the legendary Philosopher's Stone in order to restore their bodies. \n\nEdward is extremely idealistic, and strongly believes in the alchemical concept of \"Equivalent Exchange,\" though he also behaves in a childish manner and can violently lash out when confronted about his short height. Besides his abilities as an alchemist, Edward is a formidable fighter as a result of his training with Izumi, who had extensively trained both brothers in martial arts.\n\nDuring their search for the Stone, from liberating the town of Liore from the cult leader Father Cornello to their tragic meeting with Nina Tucker and her desperate father Shou Tucker, Edward and Alphonse had a near-death experience when attacked by Scar, a vengeful Ishbalan targeting State Alchemists for the mass murder of his people during the Ishbal Civil War. This led to the Elrics making a brief return to Resembool with Winry becoming Edward's automail mechanic, the brothers encountering a former State Alchemist named Tim Marcoh who gives them the method of creating a Philosopher's Stone. The brothers, deciding to find another means upon learning human souls are required to create a Philosopher's Stone, get later revelations in the form of immortal beings known as the homunculi.\n\nWhen Edward and Alphonse discover that the homunculi and the Philosopher's Stone are related, they work together with Mustang and the Xingese prince Lin Yao to find them. But the Elric brothers meet the homunculus whom the homunculi call \"Father,\" who is the true leader of Ametris with Bradley being a human-homunculus. The brothers are forced to keep working with the military as Bradley uses Winry as a hostage. \n\nForced to comply, the Elrics travel to the northern area of the country in order where they eventually reveal what they known to General Olivier Mira Armstrong while dealing with the homunculus Sloth. Shortly after their arrival, the State Alchemist Solf J. Kimblee bring Winry to the north as a hostage, unknown to Winry, to force Edward's help in hunting Scar. But the brothers and Scar made their place as they end up using his help so Alphonse can take Winry to safety. Upon their success, joined by Lin after he willing became a host for Greed, Edward learns the Father's full plan of making human transmutation circle out to create a Philosopher's Stone. Edward later reunites with Alphonse and their father as they and their allies formulate an attack on Central City from all sides.\n\nThe group make their way into the underground complex while dispatching many of the homunculi, but the Elric Brothers, Izumi, Honenhiem, and Mustang are captured by Father who uses them to absorb the souls of Amestrians to absorb the being beyond the Gate of Truth. But Honenheim and Scar act out their backup plans to return the recently stolen souls to their bodies and enable every alchemist to fighting the severely weakened Father. Joining the fray after defeating Pride, Edward loses his automail while battling Father. Alphonse transmutes his soul in order to restore Edward's original flesh-and-blood arm. After defeating Father, Edward manages to bring Alphonse back by sacrificing his own ability to use alchemy. The brothers return to their hometown to live normal lives, but are motivated by the memories of Nina and others they failed to save to learn new methods of alchemy to prevent such tragedies from being repeated. Two years later, Edward decides to head westward for their research with Winry accompanying him as they progressively developed a romantic relationship over the course of their adventure and eventually confessed their feelings to each other. In the epilogue, Edward and Winry are revealed to have married and have a son and daughter together.\n\nAlthough following the series storyline to an extent, the first anime's storyline diverts with Edward learning the secret to destroying a homunculus during his encounter with Greed, whom he kills in an effort to save Alphonse. When he learns of Scar's creation of a Philosopher's Stone within Alphonse, Edward saves the people of Lior from being sacrificed for its creation. During his battle against the homunculi, Edward is killed by Envy, but Alphonse trades himself for his brothers' revival. In doing so, however, Alphonse's armor with the philosopher's stone within it is used up and he disappears. After being revived, Edward sacrifices his own life to bring back his brother in exchange. As a result, Edward finds himself on the other side of the Gate, a parallel world which greatly resembles the real world during World War II, while Alphonse recovers his original body. Determined to return to Alphonse, Edward becomes involved in rocketry research in Germany, with the intention of using that technology to return to his home world. In the feature film, \"\", set two years after the end of the anime, Edward has been living in Germany and looks for a way to return to his world. At the film's end, he decides to stay in the parallel world along with Alphonse so that they may try to protect both worlds.\n\nEdward also appears in almost all the \"Fullmetal Alchemist\" original video animations (OVAs). In the first OVA he appears as a super deformed version of himself at the movie's wrap-up party; in the second, he appears shortly as an old man living in modern-day Tokyo; and in the third OVA, he plays a part in the battle against the first anime's homunculi. As the series' titular character, Edward is playable in all \"Fullmetal Alchemist\" video games. The three games for the PlayStation 2 – \"Fullmetal Alchemist and the Broken Angel\", \"\" and \"\" – feature exclusive stories in which the Elrics keep searching for the Philosopher's Stone. In the Nintendo DS game, \"Fullmetal Alchemist Dual Sympathy\", he and Alphonse replay the first anime series. He is also featured in the \"Fullmetal Alchemist Trading Card Game\". There are two character CDs featuring tracks based on Edward's character. The first is named and the second \"Theme of Edward Elric\". Both albums were performed by Ed's Japanese voice actress, Romi Park. He also appears in each light novel written by Makoto Inoue which continue Ed and Al's search for the Philosopher's Stone and at the same time feature different stories from the ones appearing the manga and the anime.\n\nEdward's character is well received by manga readers; in each of the popularity polls made by \"Monthly Shōnen Gangan\" he has ranked first. Edward also won the Twenty-sixth Annual \"Animage\" Readers' Poll, Anime Grand Prix, in the \"Favorite Male Character\"; Romi Park, who voices Edward in Japanese, won in the \"Favorite Seiyu\" category. Edward maintained a high place in the next year's poll in the same category. In the July 2009 issue of \"Newtype\", Edward ranked at the top of the survey Male Character Rankings. In the August 2009 issue his rank changed to fourth. In a \"Newtype\" poll from March 2010, Edward was voted as the fourth most popular male anime character from the 2000s. In the Anime Awards 2006 from About.com, Edward won in the category \"Best Lead Character – Male\". He was also seventh in IGN's 2009 Top 25 Anime Characters of All Time with writer Chris Mackenzie saying, \"[Edward] and his kid brother Al make one of the best action-comedy teams in recent memory\". In 2014, IGN ranked him as the eighth greatest anime character of all time, saying that \"In Edward we had a character who was truly multidimensional. He could be comedic and pull off wild takes and sight gags. He could be placed in the most tragic circumstances and portray the deepest kind of sadness. He could be a complete badass, but he could also be the nicest guy on the planet.\" Several pieces of merchandise have been released in Edward's likeness, including plush toys, action figures, and key-chains. Vic Mignogna, who performs the voice of Edward in the English dub, was the winner in American Anime Awards in the category \"Best Actor\" for voicing Edward. In a poll by Anime News Network, he was voted as the 5th best \"guy\".\n\nSeveral publications for manga, anime, and other pop culture media have provided both praise and criticism on Edward's character. IGN writer Hilary Goldstein praises Edward as the perfect balance between the typical clever kid and the stubborn kid persona, explaining that this allows the character to \"float between comical moments and underlying drama without seeming false.\" Additionally, Melissa Harper from Anime News Network praises Edward's facial expressions as some of the most humorous highlights of the series, including also the moments in which he reacts quite violently to comments about his small stature. They also praise him for not being a stereotypical \"shōnen\" character as it is noted that he has \"very real skills, relationships, and personality\". Samuel Arbogast from T.H.E.M. Anime Reviews also comments that the interaction between the Elric brothers as they travel is interesting, and praises their humor scenes as they help to balance the dark parts of the series. Similarly, Mania Entertainment's Jarred Pine liked the dynamic between the Elrics brothers as while Edward is often faced with following \"dark paths\" in the same way as villains with the series, he is always supported by Alphonse who makes sure he is okay. Judge Joel Pearce from DVD Verdict commented on Edward's journey, considering it very complex morally because he is trying to do good within a morally questionable organization. Lydia Hojnacki listed Ed as one of the reasons she likes \"Fullmetal Alchemist\", noting the progression of the character's personality throughout the series, from simple maturity to a deeper sensitivity. The character was noted to go through a notable development in the manga after meeting his father by Holly Ellingwood from Active Anime as it made him decide to see the investigate from the human he and Alphonse created as children which led him to find a clue about how to recover his brother's body. On the other hand, Maria Lin from Animefringe criticized Edward's development in the first animated adaptation of \"Fullmetal Alchemist\", as in the series' finale he once again attempted to resurrect a human. When reviewing the video game \"Fullmetal Alchemist and the Broken Angel\", RPGFan's Neal Chandran enjoyed the dynamic between the main characters both in fights as well as dialogues.\n\nIn \"(Fullmetal) alchemy: the monstrosity of reading words and pictures in shonen manga\", Lesley-Anne Gallacher addressed how the backstory of Edward and Alphonse's failed attempt to revive their mother relate to Shou Tucker's plan to combine his daughter Nina and dog into a monster named chimera. During the discovery of this, Edward and Alphonse are given their own contrast in terms of characterization with the former showing early shock due to understanding what happened to Nina. Nevertheless, Alphonse later reacts violently too once understanding the identity of the chimera. As a result, the writer believes the story \"weaken the boundaries between different realms of representation is to compromise the integrity of them all\". Julie Sadlier from York University notes how complex is Edward's case of disability despite being a supercrip through his automail; despite acquiring these metallic limbs, Edward still feels at traumatized from his past and searches for a way to recover his lost arm and leg. Sadlier further commented on Edward's past, comparing it with Ishvalian's civil war who also suffered a tragic loss, most notably the antagonistic Scar who also lost his arm. Other foils noticed by the writer are Lan Fan who amputated herself to aid Ling Yao while noting that through his automail, Arakawa managed to link Edward with Alphonse and Winry. \n\nTien-yi Chao from Intellect commented on Edward's characterization in the film \"Conqueror of Shamballa\". Across the movie, Edward meets parallel version of people he met including Maes Hughes (a Nazi soldier with the same name) and King Bradley, (a Jewish director film director named Fritz Lang), who behave differently from their Amestris counterparts. Chao addresses that through this exchanges the film also parallels itself from Arakawa's original work that takes a different path in terms of story. Nevertheless, Edward also faces the idea of going back to Amestris and comes in terms with Earth during the climax: in confrontation to Exckhart from the Thule Society, Edward notes that both worlds share similar issues, most notably wars which might become easier to occur if the worlds are connected. As a result, Edward and Alphonse decide to live in the real world in order to protect it from nuclear weapons mentioned across the story.\n"}
{"id": "40054681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40054681", "title": "Electronic skin", "text": "Electronic skin\n\nElectronic skin refers to flexible, stretchable and self-healing electronics that are able to mimic functionalities of human or animal skin. The broad class of materials often contain sensing abilities that are intended to reproduce the capabilities of human skin to respond to environmental factors such as changes in heat and pressure.\n\nAdvances in electronic skin research focuses on designing materials that are stretchy, robust, and flexible. Research in the individual fields of flexible electronics and tactile sensing has progressed greatly; however, electronic skin design attempts to bring together advances in many areas of materials research without sacrificing individual benefits from each field. The successful combination of flexible and stretchable mechanical properties with sensors and the ability to self-heal would open the door to many possible applications including soft robotics, prosthetics, artificial intelligence and health monitoring.\n\nRecent advances in the field of electronic skin have focused on incorporating green materials ideals and environmental awareness into the design process. As one of the main challenges facing electronic skin development is the ability of the material to withstand mechanical strain and maintain sensing ability or electronic properties, recyclability and self-healing properties are especially critical in the future design of new electronic skins.\n\nSelf-healing abilities of electronic skin are critical to potential applications of electronic skin in fields such as soft robotics. Proper design of self-healing electronic skin requires not only healing of the base substrate but also the reestablishment of any sensing functions such as tactile sensing or electrical conductivity. Ideally, the self-healing process of electronic skin does not rely upon outside stimulation such as increased temperature, pressure, or solvation. Self-healing, or rehealable, electronic skin is often achieved through a polymer-based material or a hybrid material.\n\nIn 2018, Zou \"et al.\" published work on electronic skin that is able to reform covalent bonds when damaged. The group looked at a polyimine-based crosslinked network, synthesized as seen in Figure 1. The e-skin is considered rehealable because of “reversible bond exchange,” meaning that the bonds holding the network together are able to break and reform under certain conditions such as solvation and heating. The rehealable and reusable aspect of such a thermoset material is unique because many thermoset materials irreversibly form crosslinked networks through covalent bonds. In the polymer network the bonds formed during the healing process are indistinguishable from the original polymer network. \nDynamic non-covalent crosslinking has also been shown to form a polymer network that is rehealable. In 2016, Oh \"et al.\" looked specifically at semiconducting polymers for organic transistors. They found that incorporating 2,6-pyridine dicarboxamide (PDCA) into the polymer backbone could impart self-healing abilities based on the network of hydrogen bonds formed between groups. With incorporation of PDCA in the polymer backbone, the materials was able to withstand up to 100% strain without showing signs of microscale cracking. In this example, the hydrogen bonds are available for energy dissipation as the strain increases. \n\nPolymer networks are able to facilitate dynamic healing processes through hydrogen bonds or dynamic covalent chemistry. However, the incorporation of inorganic particles can greatly expand the functionality of polymer-based materials for electronic skin applications. The incorporation of micro-structured nickel particles into a polymer network (Figure 2) has been shown to maintain self-healing properties based on the reformation of hydrogen bonding networks around the inorganic particles. The material is able to regain its conductivity within 15 seconds of breakage, and the mechanical properties are regained after 10 minutes at room temperature without added stimulus. This material relies on hydrogen bonds formed between urea groups when they align. The hydrogen atoms of urea functional groups are ideally situated to form a hydrogen-bonding network because they are near an electron-withdrawing carbonyl group. This polymer network with embedded nickel particles demonstrates the possibility of using polymers as supramolecular hosts to develop self-healing conductive composites. \nFlexible and porous graphene foams that are interconnected in a 3D manner have also been shown to have self-healing properties. Thin film with poly(N,N-dimethylacrylamde)-poly(vinyl alcohol) (PDMAA) and reduced graphene oxide have shown high electrical conductivity and self-healing properties. The healing abilities of the hybrid composite are suspected to be due to the hydrogen bonds between the PDMAA chains, and the healing process is able to restore initial length and recover conductive properties. \n\nZou \"et al\". presents an interesting advance in the field of electronic skin that can be used in robotics, prosthetics, and many other applications in the form of a fully recyclable electronic skin material. The e-skin developed by the group consists of a network of covalently bound polymers that are thermoset, meaning cured at a specific temperature. However, the material is also recyclable and reusable. Because the polymer network is thermoset, it is chemically and thermally stable. However, at room temperature, the polyimine material, with or without silver nanoparticles, can be dissolved on the timescale of a few hours. The recycling process allows devices, which are damaged beyond self-healing capabilities, to be dissolved and formed into new devices (Figure 3). This advance opens the door for lower cost production and greener approaches to e-skin development.\nThe ability of electronic skin to withstand mechanical deformation including stretching and flexing without losing functionality is crucial for its applications as prosthetics, artificial intelligence, soft robotics, health monitoring, biocompatibility, and communication devices. Flexible electronics are often designed by depositing electronic materials on flexible polymer substrates, thereby relying on an organic substrate to impart favorable mechanical properties. Stretchable e-skin materials have been approached from two directions. Hybrid materials can rely on an organic network for stretchiness while embedding inorganic particles or sensors, which are not inherently stretchable. Other research has focused on developing stretchable materials that also have favorable electronic or sensing capabilities. \n\nZou \"et al.\" studied the inclusion of linkers that are described as “serpentine” in their polyimine matrix. These linkers make the e-skin sensors able to flex with movement and distortion. The incorporation of alkyl spacers in polymer-based materials has also been shown to increase flexibility without decreasing charge transfer mobility. Oh \"et al.\" developed a stretchable and flexible material based on 3,6-di(thiophen-2-yl)-2,5-dihydropyrrolo[3,4-\"c\"]pyrrole-1,4-dione (DPP) and non-conjugated 2,6-pyridine dicarboxamide (PDCA) as a source of hydrogen bonds (Figure 4). \nGraphene has also been show to be a suitable material for electronic skin applications as well due to its stiffness and tensile strength. Graphene is an appealing material because its synthesis to flexible substrates is scalable and cost-efficient.\n\nThe development of conductive electronic skin is of interest for many electrical applications. Research into conductive electronic skin has taken two routes: conductive self-healing polymers or embedding conductive inorganic materials in non-conductive polymer networks. \n\nThe self-healing conductive composite synthesized by Tee \"et al\". (Figure 2) investigated the incorporation of micro-structured nickel particles into a polymer host. The nickel particles adhere to the network though favorable interactions between the native oxide layer on the surface of the particles and the hydrogen-bonding polymer.\n\nNanoparticles have also been studied for their ability to impart conductivity on electronic skin materials. Zou \"et al.\" embedded silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) into a polymer matrix, making the e-skin conductive. The healing process for this material is noteworthy because it not only restores the mechanical properties of the polymer network, but also restores the conductive properties when silver nanoparticles have been embedded in the polymer network.\n\nSome of the challenges that face electronic skin sensing abilities include the fragility of sensors, the recovery time of sensors, repeatability, overcoming mechanical strain, and long-term stability.\n\nApplied pressure can be measured by monitoring changes in resistance or capacitance. Coplanar interdigitated electrodes embedded on single-layer graphene have been shown to provide pressure sensitivity for applied pressure as low as 0.11 kPa through measuring changes in capacitance. Piezoresistive sensors have also shown high levels of sensitivity.\n\nUltrathin molybdenum disulfide sensing arrays integrated with graphene have demonstrated promising mechanical properties capable of pressure sensing. Modifications of organic field effect transistors (OFETs) have shown promise in electronic ski applications. Microstructured polydimethylsiloxane thin films can elastically deform when pressure is applied. The deformation of the thin film allows for storage and release of energy.\n\nVisual representation of applied pressure has been one area of interest in development of tactile sensors. The Bao Group at Stanford University have designed an electrochromically active electronic skin that changes color with different amounts of applied pressure. Applied pressure can also be visualized by incorporation of active-matrix organic light-emitting diode displays which emit light when pressure is applied.\n\nHumidity sensors have been incorporated in electronic skin design with sulfurized tungsten films. The conductivity of the film changes with different levels of humidity. Silicon nanoribbons have also been studied for their application as temperature, pressure, and humidity sensors.\n\n"}
{"id": "25340765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25340765", "title": "Emily Howell", "text": "Emily Howell\n\nEmily Howell is a computer program created by David Cope, a music professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Emily Howell is an interactive interface that \"hears\" feedback from listeners, and builds its own musical compositions from a source database, derived from a previous composing program called Experiments in Musical Intelligence (EMI). Cope attempts to “teach” the program by providing feedback so that it can cultivate its own \"personal\" style. The software appears to be based on latent semantic analysis.\n\nEmily Howell’s first album was released in February 2009 by Centaur Records (CRC 3023). Titled \"From Darkness, Light\", this album contains her Opus 1, Opus 2, and Opus 3 compositions for chamber orchestra and multiple pianos. Her second album \"Breathless\" was released in December 2012 by Centaur Records (CRC 3255).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14486380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14486380", "title": "Engel scale", "text": "Engel scale\n\nThe Engel scale was developed by James F. Engel, as a way of representing the journey from no knowledge of God, through to spiritual maturity as a Christian believer. The model is used by some Christians to emphasize the \"process\" of conversion and the various decision-making steps that a person goes through in becoming a Christian.\n\nThe original model was developed by James F. Engel and Viggo Søgaard, although this was later refined by Engel, who added several ideas from behavioural science, and published it in his 1975 book \"What's Gone Wrong With the Harvest\". According to this model, everyone is somewhere on this scale.\n\nThe Engel scale has been criticized for its fixed linear approach, moreover a number of people have since introduced modifications. One of these is the Gray Matrix by Frank Gray of Far East Broadcasting Company (FEBC International), which is a two-dimensional model showing progression along two scales: knowledge of the Gospel and attitude toward it.\n\n"}
{"id": "17024394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17024394", "title": "Evan Durbin", "text": "Evan Durbin\n\nEvan Frank Mottram Durbin (1 March 1906 – 3 September 1948) was a British economist and Labour Party politician, whose writings combined a belief in central economic planning with a conviction that the price mechanism of markets was indispensable.\n\nHistorian David Kynaston described Durbin as \"the Labour Party's most interesting thinker of the 1940s and arguably of the twentieth century\".\n\nDurbin was born in 1906, the son of a Baptist minister. He was educated at Plympton and Exmouth Elementary Schools; Heles School, Exeter; Taunton School; and New College, Oxford. At Oxford he studied zoology, followed by PPE, and became one of what Ben Pimlott described as 'the \"Cole group\" of distinguished young socialists'. He befriended Hugh Gaitskell (later, leader of the Labour Party 1955–63) during the General Strike of 1926, when he undertook public speaking tasks on behalf of the strikers in and around Oxford, and Gaitskell acted as his driver. In 1929, he was awarded a Ricardo scholarship to study economics at University College, London, where Gaitskell was already on the teaching staff and their friendship, which lasted until Durbin's death, cemented itself.\n\nIn autumn 1930 he was appointed to a lectureship in economics at the London School of Economics (LSE), where he remained until 1940. Lecturer and Senior Lecturer in Economics, London School of Economics, 1930–1945.\n\nPolitically, Durbin defined himself as a 'militant Moderate'.\n\nIn 1931 he was the unsuccessful Labour Parliamentary candidate for East Grinstead, where Gaitskell spoke for him, addressing a meeting which included 'rowdy but good-natured Tory opposition', and in 1935 he stood for Gillingham, Kent, where, in his selection speech, Durbin famously prioritised the preservation of political democracy over the pursuit of both socialism and peace.\n\nIn early 1939 he joined with Douglas Jay and Hugh Gaitskell in urging the Labour Party leadership to agree to the government's proposal for military conscription, so long as there was a \"quid pro quo\" in the form of '\"conscription of wealth\" (a wealth tax). Instead, the Labour Party refused to support conscription at all. Once war was declared, Durbin was temporarily seconded to the Economic Section of the War Cabinet Secretariat, with other notable economists such as Lionel Robbins and the young Harold Wilson, 1940–1942 (during which time he penned \"The Politics of Democratic Socialism\", described by Professor David Marquand as consummating \"[t]he marriage between Keynsianism and Fabianism\"); and then was temporary Personal Assistant to Clement Attlee, Deputy Prime Minister, 1942–1945.\n\nDurbin was elected Labour MP for Edmonton in 1945, and was amongst those invited to Hugh Dalton's \"Young Victors' Dinner\", held at St Ermin's Hotel, off Victoria Street SW1. As other guests included George Brown, Richard Crossman, John Freeman, Hugh Gaitskell, Harold Wilson and Woodrow Wyatt, it is fairly clear that Durbin was regarded as a man of the future. He was Dalton's Parliamentary Private Secretary from 1945–47, and started a ministerial career as Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Works, 1947–1948.\n\nOn 2 September 1948 Durbin drowned while rescuing one of his daughters from the sea at Strangles Beach, south of Bude, on the coast of Cornwall.\n\nWriting in \"The Times\" after Durbin's death, Hugh Gaitskell paid tribute to Durbin's 'clarity of purpose' and 'well defined set of moral values and social ideals'. Gaitskell wrote that Durbin 'insisted in applying the process of reasoning unflinchingly and with complete intellectual integrity to all human problems' – including a consistent opposition to the dictatorship of Stalin, for 'he would not sentimentalise about tyranny, which seemed to him equally odious everywhere'. Gaitskell noted in his diary: \"There is ... nobody else in my life whom I can consult on the most fundamental issues, knowing that I shall get the guidance I want\".\n\nDespite his early death, Durbin continued to influence on Labour Party thinking throughout the 1950s, particularly for Gaitskell (who became party leader in 1955) and Labour revisionist Anthony Crosland.\n\nDurbin was also an influence on the founders of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 1981. For the SDP, Durbin's writing provided a model for a successful fight against the left within the Labour Party.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35962095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35962095", "title": "Filial mourning", "text": "Filial mourning\n\nFilial mourning () refers to a bureaucratic norm, practiced since the Han dynasty, whereby officials of the imperial government of China were obliged to resign their posts and return to their home upon the death of a parent or grandparent.\n\nThe meaning of the phrase literally means 'to encounter worries/loss', i.e. bereavement. Once used to refer to all forms of mourning for one's parents, it evolved in meaning to refer only to the practice of officials resigning their posts for mourning.\n\nThe roots of the practice lie in the Confucianist focus on filial piety as a key virtue of government, and thus was instituted during the Western Han dynasty, when Confucianism first became the official ideology of the empire. During the mourning period, banqueting, marriage, official activities and participation in the Imperial Examinations are all proscribed. The length of the mourning period is nominally three years, though in practice it has been described as being between twenty-five to twenty-seven months; this is also in line with Confucian prescriptions, since it takes three years for a human child to be fully weaned. At the end of the period, officials will be returned to the same rank as their last previously served post.\n\nNonetheless, given the length of the mandatory mourning and the tight restrictions on political or public activity, this practice often had a negative effect on the career of officials. Measures did exist to allow the government to recall an official in mourning; this is often applied to key officials in the bureaucracy, who are unable to leave their duties immediately as prescribed, or in times of emergency. On the other hand, failure to report a deceased parent and submit to filial mourning was an offence, and officials were liable to be impeached upon discovery.\n\nEven the Emperor was subjected to filial mourning, though his indispensability to administrative duties means he need only mourn for 27 days, instead of months.\n"}
{"id": "18190256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18190256", "title": "George Turner Orton", "text": "George Turner Orton\n\nGeorge Turner Orton (January 19, 1837 – November 14, 1901) was a physician and political figure in Ontario, Canada. He represented Wellington Centre in the House of Commons of Canada from 1874 to 1887 as a Liberal-Conservative.\n\nHe was born in Guelph, Upper Canada, the son of Dr. Henry Orton, who came to Upper Canada from England, and Mary Jerram. He studied medicine at the College of Surgeons in Dublin and the University of St Andrews in Scotland. He graduated from the University of St Andrews School of Medicine with an M.D. in 1860. After practicing in England, Orton returned to Ancaster, Ontario where he set up practice with his brother T.J. Orton, later moving to Fergus. He served as surgeon for the county militia. Orton ran unsuccessfully for a federal seat in 1872. In 1883, he moved to Winnipeg. Orton was surgeon for a brigade which served during the North-West Rebellion. He also served as medical officer for the Canadian Pacific Railway and coroner for British Columbia. Orton married Ann Farmer. He was defeated in a bid for reelection in 1887. Orton also served as reeve for Fergus. In 1888, he was named medical officer for the federal Department of Indian Affairs. He died in Winnipeg at the age of 64.\n\nThe community of Orton, Ontario was named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2642277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2642277", "title": "Geron Corporation", "text": "Geron Corporation\n\nGeron Corporation is a biotechnology company located in Menlo Park, California, which specializes in developing and commercializing therapeutic products for cancer that inhibit telomerase.\n\nGeron, based in Menlo Park, California, was founded by Mary C. West and Michael D. West, now CEO of BioTime. They secured initial venture capital investments in the company from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Venrock. The company was incorporated in 1990 and began doing business in 1992. John A. Scarlett was appointed CEO in 2011.\n\nThe company's Scientific and Clinical Advisory Board has included Nobel laureates James Watson, Gunter Blobel, and Carol Greider, and Leonard Hayflick, known for discovering that human cells divide for a limited number of times \"in vitro\" (called the Hayflick limit).\n\nIn 2017, Geron staff received the highest median pay in California, at $500,250. \n\nGeron Corporation has sponsored human clinical trials of several anti-cancer products. \n\nIn 2014 Geron exclusively licensed imetelstat to Janssen Biotech. This partnership was ended by Janssen on Sep 28th, 2018.\n\nIn addition to testing drug candidates that exploit cancer cell's dependence on telomerase, Geron is researching the possible applications of activating the enzyme in normal cells to delay cellular senescence. The company is in the early stages of developing a telomerase based treatment for HIV called TAT0002, which is the saponin cycloastragenol in Chinese herb Astragalus propinquus. Geron has granted a license to Telomerase Activation Sciences to sell TA-65, the telomerase activator agent also derived from astragalus. In October 2010 Intertek/AAC Labs, an ISO 17025 internationally recognized lab, found the largest component of TA-65 to be Cycloastragenol.\n\nGeron originally investigated telomerase as a means of understanding and modifying human aging. However, Geron has ceased aging research of any kind.\n\nOn January 23, 2009, Geron received FDA approval to begin Phase I testing of GRNOPC1 in humans. GRNOPC1 is an embryonic stem cell based drug that is designed to treat specific forms of spinal cord injury through remyelination of damaged axons. This trial does not involve direct use of stem cells however, as GRNOPC1 is composed of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells derived from embryonic stem cell lines. Studies have shown significant restoration of mobility in animals with spinal injuries that received cells.\n\nGeron also has several other embryonic stem cell treatments that are still in the preclinical phase, including GRNCM1, a treatment for heart disease, and GRNIC1, a treatment for diabetes. In tests with diabetic mice, 80% of the mice given GRNIC1 were still alive in 50 days while the entire control group, which was given no treatment, perished.\n\nGeron sold its human stem cell research assets to Asterias in 2013.\n\nAs of October 2010 and November 2010, One of Geron's most highly publicized trial therapy products has been GRNOPC1, a stem cell therapy designed to heal severe spinal cord injuries. The cells in the GRNOPC1 therapy have been coaxed into becoming early myelinated glial cells, a type of cell that insulates nerve cells. For every GRNOPC1 cell that is injected in the patient, they become six to 10 cells in a few months.\nIn Oct 2011 updated results on 4 patients were released. The trial was discontinued in Nov 2011.\n\nIn early 2013 BioTime, whose CEO is Geron founder Michael D. West, acquired 400 patents and other intellectual property related to embryonic stem cells from Geron and later went on to restart the trial.\n\nGeron Corporation initially held exclusive rights to three cell types derived from embryonic stem cells, as the result of paying for the research originally conducted by Dr. James Thomson at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. The patents on the other three cell types are owned by the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF). WARF and Geron did not charge academics to study human stem cells but did charge commercial users. In 2001 WARF came under public pressure to widen access to human stem-cell technology, and they launched legal action against Geron Corporation to recover some of the previously sold rights. The two sides agreed that Geron would keep the rights to only three cell types.\n\nIn October 2006, a legal challenge was mounted to overturn these patents by The Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights and the non-profit patent-watchdog Public Patent Foundation. They contended that two of the patents granted to WARF are invalid because they cover a technique published in 1992 for which a patent had already been granted to an Australian researcher. Another part of the challenge came from the molecular biologist Jeanne Loring who stated that University of Wisconsin–Madison stem cell pioneer James Thomson's techniques (currently patents held by WARF) are rendered obvious by a 1990 paper and two textbooks. The outcome of this legal challenge was particularly relevant to the Geron Corporation as it can only license patents that are upheld. The patents were ultimately upheld when the reexamination concluded in 2008.\n\nAs an interim measure, on January 23, 2007 WARF relaxed the stem cell patents, allowing industry-sponsored research at academic and non-profit institutions without a license. WARF will allow easier and simpler cost free cell transfers among researchers and would not require a license or agreement from California's taxpayer-funded stem cell research program.\n\nAs a participant in the then-controversial stem cell and cloning area, Geron Corporation was asked to testify about its technology before the U.S. Congress. In 2001, when Congress was attempting to ban all forms of cloning, then Geron CEO Thomas Okarma spoke before Congress to preserve cloning for therapeutic purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1845226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1845226", "title": "Gift tax in the United States", "text": "Gift tax in the United States\n\nA gift tax is a tax imposed on the transfer of ownership of property. The United States Internal Revenue Service says, a gift is \"Any transfer to an individual, either directly or indirectly, where full compensation (measured in money or money's worth) is not received in return.\"\n\nWhen a taxable gift in the form of cash, stocks, real estate, or other tangible or intangible property is made, the tax is usually imposed on the donor (the giver) unless there is a retention of an interest which delays completion of the gift. A transfer is \"completely gratuitous\" when the donor receives nothing of value in exchange for the given property. A transfer is \"gratuitous in part\" when the donor receives some value but the value of the property received by the donor is substantially less than the value of the property given by the donor. In this case, the amount of the gift is the difference.\n\nIn the United States, the gift tax is governed by Chapter 12, Subtitle B of the Internal Revenue Code. The tax is imposed by section 2501 of the Code. For the purposes of taxable income, courts have defined a \"gift\" as the proceeds from a \"detached and disinterested generosity.\" Gifts are often given out of \"affection, respect, admiration, charity or like impulses.\"\n\nGenerally, if an interest in property is transferred during the giver's lifetime (often called an inter vivos gift) then the gift or transfer would not be subject to the estate tax. In 1976, Congress unified the gift and estate taxes limiting the giver's ability to circumvent the estate tax by giving during his or her lifetime. Notwithstanding, there remain differences between estate and gift taxes; such as the effective tax rate, the amount of the credit available against tax, and the basis of the received property.\n\nThere are also types of gifts which will be included in a person's estate; such as certain gifts made within the three-year window before death and gifts in which the donor retains an interest, such as gifts of remainder interests that are not either \"qualified\" remainder trusts or charitable remainder trusts. The remainder interest gift tax rules apply the gift tax on the entire value of the trust by assigning a zero value to the interest retained by the donor.\n\nGenerally, the following gifts are not taxable gifts:\n\nThere are two levels of exemption from the gift tax. First, gifts of up to the annual exclusion ($14,000 per recipient in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017) incur no tax or filing requirement. By splitting their gifts, married couples can give up to twice this amount tax-free. Note that each giver and recipient pair has their own unique annual exclusion; a giver can give to any number of recipients and the exclusion is not affected by other gifts that recipient may have received from others.\n\nSecond, gifts in excess of the annual exclusion may still be tax-free up to the lifetime estate basic exclusion amount ($5,340,000 in 2014, $5,430,000 in 2015, $5,450,000 in 2016), although for estates over that amount such gifts might increase estate taxes. Taxpayers that expect to have a taxable estate may sometimes prefer to pay gift taxes as they occur, rather than saving them up as part of the estate.\n\nFurthermore, transfers (whether by bequest, gift, or inheritance) in excess of $1 million may be subject to a generation-skipping transfer tax if certain other criteria are met.\n\nFor gift tax purposes, the test is different in determining who is a non-resident alien, compared to the one for income tax purposes (the inquiry centers around the decedent's domicile). This is a subjective test that looks primarily at intent. The test considers factors such as the length of stay in the United States; frequency of travel, size, and cost of home in the United States; location of family; participation in community activities; participation in U.S. business and ownership of assets in the United States; and voting. It is possible for a foreign citizen to be considered a U.S. resident for income tax purposes but not for gift tax purposes.\n\nIf a person is a non-resident alien for purposes of gift tax, taxation of gifts is determined in a different way. If the property is not located in the U.S., there is no gift tax. If it is intangible property, such as shares in U.S. corporations and interests in partnerships or LLCs, there is no gift tax.\n\nNon-resident alien donors are allowed the same annual gift tax exclusion as other taxpayers ($14,000 per year for 2013 through 2016). Non-resident alien donors do not have a lifetime unified credit. Non-resident alien donors are subject to the same rate schedule for gift taxes.\n\nU.S. citizens and residents must report gifts from a non-resident alien that are in excess of $100,000 on Form 3520.\n\nAccording to 26 USC section 2523(i), gifts to a non-U.S.-citizen spouse are not generally exempt from gift tax. Instead, they are exempt only up a specified amount foreseen by 26 USC section 2503 (b) (that is, up to $147,000 for 2015).\n\nPursuant to 26 USC 102(c), the receipt of a gift, bequest, devise, or inheritance is not included in gross income. Thus, a taxpayer does not include the value of the gift when filing an income tax return. Although many items might appear to be gift, courts have held the most critical factor is the transferor's intent. The transferor must demonstrate a \"detached and disinterested generosity\" when giving the gift to exclude the value of the gift from the taxpayer's gross income. The courts have defined \"gift\" as proceeds from a \"detached and disinterested generosity.\"\n\n\"Gifts\" received from employers that benefit employees are not excluded from taxation. clearly states employers cannot exclude as a gift anything transferred to an employee that benefits the employee. Consequently, an employer cannot \"gift\" an employee's salary to avoid taxation.\n\nGifts from certain parties will always be taxed for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. Under Internal Revenue Code section 102(c), gifts transferred by or for an employer to, or for the benefit of, an employee cannot be excluded from the gross income of the employee for Federal income tax purposes. While there are some statutory exemptions under this rule for de minimis fringe amounts, and for achievement awards, the general rule is the employee must report a \"gift\" from the employer as income for Federal income tax purposes. The foundation for the preceding rule is the presumption that employers do not give employees items of value out of \"detached and disinterested generosity\" due to the existing employment relationship.\n\nUnder Internal Revenue Code section 102(b)(1), income subsequently derived from any property received as a gift is not excludable from the income taxed to the recipient. In addition, under Internal Revenue Code section 102(b)(2), a donor may not circumvent this requirement by giving only the income and not the property itself to the recipient. Thus, a gift of income is always income to the recipient. Permitting such an exclusion would allow the donor and the recipient to avoid paying taxes on the income received, a loophole Congress has chosen to eliminate.\n\nThe gift tax is a backstop to the United States estate tax. Without the gift tax, large estates could be reduced by simply giving the money away prior to death, and thus escape any potential estate tax. Gifts above the annual exemption amount act to reduce the lifetime gift tax exclusion. Congress initially passed the gift tax in 1932 at a much lower rate than the estate tax, a full 25% under the estate tax rate, while also providing a $50,000 exemption, separate from the $50,000 exemption under estate tax. The benefits were clear: a $10,000,000 gift would be taxed only $2,300,000, effectively only 23.0%, well below the estate tax rate.\n\nThe intention was to rapidly generate revenue in the Great Depression, effectively encouraging avoidance of the estate tax by doing so, while lawmakers at the same time publicly, and in both House and Senate, proclaimed the exact opposite objective. Moreover, this was directly at the expense of state tax revenues, as well as of future federal tax revenues. The primary beneficiaries were the wealthiest citizens, whom the estate tax was supposedly designed to target, since only they had enough money to freely make large gifts. This was the express intention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38118026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38118026", "title": "Gilbert J. Allis", "text": "Gilbert J. Allis\n\nGilbert James Allis (c. 1879 - 1932) was a philatelist who was a specialist in the stamps of southern Africa. In 1931, he was awarded the Crawford Medal by the Royal Philatelic Society London for his work \"Cape of Good Hope: Its postal history & postage stamps\". He was the President of the Cape Town Philatelic Society and the first signatory to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists of South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "38311520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38311520", "title": "Henri Feulard", "text": "Henri Feulard\n\nHenri Feulard (1858–1897) was a leading French dermatologist of the nineteenth century.\n\nHenri Feulard was born in Paris on 20 May 1858. He trained as a physician in the hospitals of Paris, interning at the Hôpital Saint-Louis, which at the time specialized in dermatology and venereology.\n\nIn 1886, he became Professor Jean Alfred Fournier's Chief of Clinic (a position in French teaching hospitals that meant being day-to-day head of a department nominally run by a professor), and helped found the dermatological library in the Hôpital Saint-Louis. He was appointed librarian in 1890, and the library was later renamed \"Bibliothèque Henri-Feulard – Centre de documentation dermatologique\".\n\nFeulard was an organizer and the secretary of the first International Congress of Dermatology, held in Paris in August 1889. He also attended the second International Congress of Dermatology, in Vienna (1892), and the third, in London (1896). He published extensively on clinical dermatology, primarily in the \"Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphiligraphie\", of which he became editor-in-chief in 1890.\n\nFrom 1892 Feulard also worked at the infirmary of the Prison Saint-Lazare, a women's prison where monthly medical inspections of registered prostitutes were carried out.\n\nOn 4 May 1897 Dr Feulard, his wife, their ten-year-old daughter Germaine, and their maid Ernestine Moreau, attended the Bazar de la Charité, a high-class annual charity bazaar in Paris. They were present when the building caught fire. The family became separated in the stampede. Dr Feulard re-entered the building in an attempt to save his daughter, but both perished, as did Ernestine Moreau. Mrs Feulard suffered burn injuries but survived.\n\nDr Feulard was buried together with his daughter in Montmartre Cemetery, after a service in Notre-Dame-de-Lorette.\n\n\nIn 1946 the rue Henri Feulard, in the 10th arrondissement of Paris, was named in his memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "18004542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18004542", "title": "Hindmarsh–Rose model", "text": "Hindmarsh–Rose model\n\nThe Hindmarsh–Rose model of neuronal activity is aimed to study the spiking-bursting behavior of the membrane potential observed in experiments made with a single neuron. The relevant variable is the membrane potential, \"x\"(\"t\"), which is written in dimensionless units. There are two more variables, \"y\"(\"t\") and \"z\"(\"t\"), which take into account the transport of ions across the membrane through the ion channels. The transport of sodium and potassium ions is made through fast ion channels and its rate is measured by \"y\"(\"t\"), which is called the spiking variable. The transport of other ions is made through slow channels, and is taken into account through \"z\"(\"t\"), which is called the bursting variable. Then, the Hindmarsh–Rose model has the mathematical form of a system of three nonlinear ordinary differential equations on the dimensionless dynamical variables \"x\"(\"t\"), \"y\"(\"t\"), and \"z\"(\"t\"). They read:\n\nwhere\n\nThe model has eight parameters: \"a\", \"b\", \"c\", \"d\", \"r\", \"s\", \"x\" and \"I\". It is common to fix some of them and let the others be control parameters. Usually the parameter \"I\", which means the current that enters the neuron, is taken as a control parameter. Other control parameters used often in the literature are \"a\", \"b\", \"c\", \"d\", or \"r\", the first four modeling the working of the fast ion channels and the last one the slow ion channels, respectively. Frequently, the parameters held fixed are \"s\" = 4 and \"x\" = -8/5. When \"a\", \"b\", \"c\", \"d\" are fixed the values given are \"a\" = 1, \"b\" = 3, \"c\" = 1, and \"d\" = 5. The parameter \"r\" is something of the order of 10, and \"I\" ranges between −10 and 10.\n\nThe third state equation:\nallows a great variety of dynamic behaviors of the membrane potential, described by variable x, including unpredictable behavior, which is referred to as chaotic dynamics. This makes the Hindmarsh–Rose model relatively simple and provides a good qualitative description of the many different patterns that are observed empirically.\n\n"}
{"id": "1739962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1739962", "title": "ICBM address", "text": "ICBM address\n\nICBM (intercontinental ballistic missile) address or missile address is hacker slang for one's longitude and latitude (preferably to seconds-of-arc accuracy) when placed in a signature or another publicly available file.\n\nThe form that used to register a site with the Usenet mapping project, before Internet connectivity became commonplace for Usenet sites, included a field for longitude and latitude, preferably to seconds-of-arc accuracy. This was actually used for generating geographically-correct maps of Usenet links on a plotter; however, it became traditional to refer to this as one's ICBM address or missile address, and some people include it in their sig block with that name (but a real missile address would include target elevation).\n\nA typical tag might read \"ICBM Address: 36.8274040 N, 108.0204086 W\".\n\nToday, using the ICBM method of coordinates is one method of geotagging webpages or other online material. Some projects parse ICBM address included in webpages via meta tags, which can then be used to map out sites added to its database.\n\nWeb page uses of <meta name=\"ICBM\" content=\"12.345, 67.890\"> specify the same location as a geo:12.345,67.890 URI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15991162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15991162", "title": "In vitro compartmentalization", "text": "In vitro compartmentalization\n\n\"In vitro\" compartmentalization (IVC) is an emulsion-based technology that generates cell-like compartments \"in vitro\". These compartments are designed such that each contains no more than one gene. When the gene is transcribed and/or translated, its products (RNAs and/or proteins) become 'trapped' with the encoding gene inside the compartment. By coupling the genotype (DNA) and phenotype (RNA, protein), compartmentalization allows the selection and evolution of phenotype.\n\nIn vitro compartmentalization method was first developed by Tawfik et al. Based on the idea that Darwinian evolution relies on the linkage of genotype to phenotype, Tawfik et al. designed aqueous compartments of water-in-oil (w/o) emulsions to mimic cellular compartments that can link genotype and phenotype. Emulsions of cell-like compartments were formed by adding \"in vitro\" transcription/translation reaction mixture to stirred mineral oil containing surfactants. The mean droplet diameter was measured to be 2.6 um by laser diffraction. As a proof of concept, Tawfik el al. designed an experiment that would transcribe and translate M. HaeIII gene in the presence of 107-fold excess of genes encoding another enzyme folA. 3’ of each gene is purposely designed to contain HaeIII R/M sequences, and when HaeIII methyltransferase was expressed from a M.HaeIII gene, it would methylate HaeIII R/M sequence and cause the gene to be resistant to restriction enzyme digestion. By selecting for DNA sequences that survive the endonuclease digestion, Tawfik el al. found there was enrichment for the M.HaeIII genes, i.e. 1000 fold in the first round of selection.\n\nWater-in-oil (w/o) emulsions are created by mixing aqueous and oil phases with the help of surfactants. A typical IVC emulsion is formed by first generating oil-surfactant mixture by stirring, and then gradually adding the aqueous phase to the oil-surfactant mixture. For stable emulsion formation, a mixture of HLB (hydrophile-lipophile balance) and low HLB surfactants are needed. Some combinations of surfactants used to generate oil-surfactant mixture are mineral oil / 0.5% Tween 80 / 4.5% Span 80 / sodium deoxycholate and a more heat stable version, light mineral oil / 0.4% Tween 80 / 4.5% Span 80 / 0.05% Triton X-100. The aqueous phase containing transcription and/or translation components is slowly added to the oil surfactants, and the formation of w/o is facilitated by homogenizing, stirring or using hand extruding device.\n\nThe emulsion quality can be determined by light microscopy and/or dynamic light scattering techniques. The emulsion is quite diverse, and greater homogenization speeds helps to produce smaller droplets with narrower size distribution. However, homogenization speeds has to be controlled, since speed over 13,500 r.p.m tends to result in a significant loss of enzyme activity on the level of transcription. The most widely used emulsion formation gives droplets with a mean diameter of 2-3μm, and an average volume of ~5 femtoliters, or 10 aqueous droplet per ml of emulsions. The ratio of genes to droplets is designed such that most of the droplets contains no more than a single gene statistically.\n\nIVC enables the miniaturization of large-scale techniques that can now be done on the micro scale including coupled \"in vitro\" transcription and translation (IVTT) experiments. Streamlining and integrating transcription and translation allows for fast and highly controllable experimental designs. IVTT can be done both in bulk emulsions and in microdroplets by utilizing droplet-based microfluidics. Microdroplets, droplets on the scale of pico to femtoliters, have been successfully used as single DNA molecule vessels. This droplet technology allows high throughput analysis with many different selection pressures in a single experimental setup. IVTT in microdroplets is preferred when overexpression of a desired protein would be toxic to a host cell minimizing the utility of the transcription and translation mechanisms.\n\nIVC has used bacterial cell, wheat germ and rabbit reticulocyte (RRL) extracts for transcription and translation. It is also possible to use bacterial reconstituted translation system such as PURE in which translation components are individually purified and later combined. When expressing eukaryote or complex proteins, it is desirable to use eukaryotic translation systems such as wheat germ extract or more superior alternative, RRL extract. In order to use RRL for transcription and translation, traditional emulsion formulation cannot be used as it abolishes translation. Instead, a novel emulsion formulation: 4% Abil EM90 / light mineral oil was developed and demonstrated to be functional in expressing luciferase and human telomerase.\n\nOnce transcription and/or translation has completed in the droplets, emulsion will be broken by successive steps of removing mineral oil and surfactants to allow for subsequent selection. At this stage, it is crucial to have a method to ‘track’ each gene products to the encoding gene as they become free floating in a heterogeneous population of molecules. There are three major approaches to track down each phenotype to its genotype. The first method is to attach each DNA molecule with a biotin group and an additional coding sequence for streptavidin (STABLE display). All the newly formed proteins/peptides will be in fusion with streptavidin molecules and bind to their biotinylated coding sequence. An improved version attached two biotin molecules to the ends of a DNA molecule to increase the avidity between DNA molecule and streptavidin-fused peptides, and used a low GC content synthetic streptavidin gene to increase efficiency and specificity during PCR amplification. The second method is to covalently link DNA and protein. Two strategies have been demonstrated. The first is to form M.HaeIII fusion proteins. Each expressed protein/polypeptide will be in fusion with Hae III DNA methyltransferase domain, which is able to bind covalently to DNA fragments containing the sequence 5′-GGC*-3′, where C* is 5-fluoro-2 deoxycytidine. The second strategy is to use monomeric mutant of VirD2 enzyme. When a protein/peptide is expressed in fusion with Agrobacterium protein VirD2, it will bind to its DNA coding sequence that has a single-stranded overhang comprising VirD2 T-border recognition sequences. The third method is to link phenotype and genotype via beads. The beads used will be coated with streptavidin to allow for the binding of biotinylated DNA, in addition, the beads will also display cognate binding partner to the affinity tag that will be expressed in fusion with the protein/peptide.\n\nDepending on the phenotype to be selected, difference selection strategies will be used. Selection strategy can be divided into three major categories: selection for binding, selection for catalysis and selection for regulation. The phenotype to be selected can range from RNA to peptide to protein. By selecting for binding, the most commonly evolved phenotypes are peptide/proteins that have selective affinity to a specific antibody or DNA molecule. An example is the selection of proteins that have affinity to zinc finger DNA by Sepp et al. By selecting for catalytic proteins/RNAs, new variants with novel or improved enzymatic property are usually isolated. For example, new ribozyme variants with trans-ligase activity were selected and exhibited multiple turnovers. By selecting for regulation, inhibitors of DNA nucleases can be selected, such as protein inhibitors of the Colicin E7 DNase.\n\nComparing to other \"in vitro\" display technologies, IVC has two major advantages. The first advantage is its ability to control reactions within the droplets. Hydrophobic and hydrophilic components can be delivered to each droplet in a step-wise fashion without compromising the chemical integrity of the droplet, and thus by controlling what to be added and when to be added, the reaction in each droplet is controlled. In addition, depending on the nature of the reaction to be carried out, the pH of each droplet can also be changed. More recently, photocaged substrates were used and their participation in a reaction was regulated by photo-activation. The second advantage is that IVC allows the selection of catalytic molecules. As an example, Griffiths et al. was able to select for phosphotriesterase variants with higher K by detecting product formation and amount using anti-product antibody and flow cytometry respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328144", "title": "John Abraham (politician)", "text": "John Abraham (politician)\n\nJohn Abraham (\"fl.\" 1672 – 1689) was a governor of the now abandoned Hudson's Bay Company settlement at Port Nelson (or Fort Nelson) on Hudson Bay, located in the northern part of the modern province of Manitoba.\n\nImmediately after joining the HBC in 1672, Abraham was sent to Hudson Bay, where he served under Governor Charles Bayly until 1678. In 1679, possibly as a result of Abraham's accusations of mismanagement, Bayly was recalled to London and replaced by John Nixon. Abraham held the position of Nixon's second-in-command until 1681, when he was assigned to The Diligence under the command Captain Nehemiah Walker.\n\nIgnoring Nixon's criticisms of him, the HBC promoted Abraham to Captain of \"The George\" in 1683 and set sail for Port Nelson, where a fort had been established the previous year by Governor John Bridgar. Upon his arrival, Abraham discovered that the HBC's post had been routed by Pierre Esprit Radisson and Médard des Groseilliers, French agents competing with the HBC. Due to this and the fact that Bridgar had been captured and taken to Quebec by Radisson and Des Groseilliers, Abraham assumed command of Port Nelson. He spent the next winter contending with Jean-Baptiste Chouart, Des Groseilliers's son, for control of the region. Abraham decided to sail back to England in the spring of 1684, but returned to Port Nelson when he received a commission as governor from the HBC while en route. During his first official weeks as governor Fort York was constructed under the supervision of George Geyer. Also during this time, Abraham repulsed an attack carried out by Claude de Bermen de la Martinière of the French La Compagnie du Nord. The following winter saw minor skirmishes and increased tensions with the French.\n\nIn 1685, the HBC committee decided to replace Abraham with Governor Thomas Phipps because he had abandoned Port Nelson in 1684 before receiving word from England. He acted as Phipps deputy until 1688, when he was recalled. The HBC decided to do this for two reasons: they considered his opposition to the French in the winter of 1684-85 had been unjustified considering his stronger position and certain reports he had made lead them to believe that he was planning to mount an interloping expedition. These fears did not prove unfounded when, in 1688, Abraham, along with John Outlaw, sailed \"The Mary\" to Hudson Bay intent on infringing upon the HBC's charter. However, the expedition did not go as planned when \"The Mary\" was wrecked by ice in the Hudson Strait. Before the ship sank, her crew and supplies were rescued by John Marsh, who had been tasked by the HBC settle in Albany River. Despite the English and French crowns enjoying a rare peace, Marsh's colony clashed with the local French and Abraham was given up as a hostage. At some point during his captivity, Abraham switched his allegiance and proceeded to prey upon English ships on the St. Lawrence River for the remainder of his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "6812691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6812691", "title": "Josh (The Outer Limits)", "text": "Josh (The Outer Limits)\n\n\"Josh\" is an episode of \"The Outer Limits\" television show. It was first broadcast on March 6, 1998, during the fourth season.\n\nTabloid TV reporter Judy Warren (Kate Vernon) knows she's come across a big story when she sees the videotape shot by two tourists in a remote Alaskan park. The tape shows Josh Butler (Alex McArthur), a recluse who lives in a cabin near the park, bringing back to life a young girl who has died after a fall, a feat he accomplishes by generating a mysterious blue glow. But, she only discovers how big a story it is when her pursuit of the strange young man is cut short by a top-secret military unit that is also chasing him.\n\nIt seems that the blue glow sent out electromagnetic pulses that knocked out two satellites orbiting 20,000 miles above the Earth, and the Air Force wants to know what's going on. A battery of tests doesn't produce any answers, leaving the brass, led by Col. Roger Tennent and Major Samuel Harbeck, to debate whether Butler is an alien or an angel—someone to be dissected or to be worshipped. Warren doesn't know what Josh is either, but she knows she doesn't trust the soldiers to make the right choice. This prompts her to try to save the recluse. The episode ends with Josh ascending back to his home while Judy chooses to destroy this information rather than divulge it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2603412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2603412", "title": "Juanita Nielsen", "text": "Juanita Nielsen\n\nJuanita Joan Nielsen (née Smith) (22 April 1937 – disappeared 4 July 1975) was an Australian publisher, activist for urban conservation and community issues–particularly anti-development campaigns–and heiress. She disappeared in Kings Cross, Sydney in early July, 1975. The people responsible for her disappearance have never been identified and no trace of her has ever been found.\n\nNielsen was born Juanita Joan Smith in New Lambton, New South Wales to parents Neil Donovan Smith and Vilma Grace Smith (née Meares) (1905–1978). Her parents separated soon after her birth and she was raised by her mother at Killara, Sydney. Her father, Neil was an English-born heir to the Mark Foy's retail fortune via his parents, John Joseph Smith (1862–1921), who was a Chairman and Managing Director of Mark Foy's Ltd, and his wife, Kathleen Sophie Foy (1870–1919). Kathleen Smith was a sister of Mark Foy and Francis Foy.\n\nNielsen was educated at Ravenswood School for Girls, Gordon, Sydney. She worked at Mark Foy's from 1953 until she travelled abroad in 1959. In 1962, she married a Danish seaman named Jorgen Fritz Nielsen at Kobe, Japan although the marriage only lasted for a few years. Nielsen returned to Sydney in 1965 and returned to work at Mark Foy's for about five years.\n\nIn the early 1970s, she was the publisher of \"NOW\", an alternative newspaper in the Sydney suburb of Kings Cross. She lived in a terrace house at 202 Victoria Street (now heritage-listed as Juanita Nielsen's House), and she became involved in a campaign against a proposed development project in her street and across the suburb.\n\nNielsen disappeared on 4 July 1975 and it is generally believed that she was kidnapped and murdered because of her anti-development and anti-corruption stances. A coronial inquest determined that Nielsen had been murdered, and although the case has never been officially solved, it is widely believed that Nielsen was killed by agents of the developers. The circumstances of her disappearance were fictionalised in the films \"Heatwave\" and \"The Killing of Angel Street\".\n\nIn the early 1970s, property developer Frank Theeman (1913–1989) planned to construct a A$40 million apartment complex in Kings Cross. Theeman, who had initially made his fortune in lingerie, moved into property development in 1972 after he sold his \"Osti\" company to Dunlop for A$3.5 million.\n\nThe plan involved evicting dozens of people from their houses in Victoria Street, an area which the National Trust compared to Montmartre in Paris. Built along a steep sandstone escarpment east of the city centre and lined with rows of large 19th-century terrace houses, Victoria Street had commanding views of the city, the harbour and The Domain.\n\nThe houses were to be demolished and replaced with three high-rise apartment towers. The local community campaigned against the development, and successfully lobbied the Builders Labourers' Federation (BLF) to impose a green ban on the site in 1972. Supported by the BLF, the residents of Victoria Street, including Nielsen, refused to leave their houses. Nielsen used her newspaper, \"NOW\", to publicise the issue.\n\nIn July 1973, resident Arthur King was kidnapped by two unidentified men, who put him in the boot of their car. King was then driven to a motel on the South Coast of New South Wales and held for three days before being released under threat of death. King quit as the head of the residents' action group, and immediately moved out of Kings Cross. It was suspected, though never proved, that the men had been hired by Theeman.\n\nOther residents of the street were regularly harassed by men employed by Theeman, as he attempted to have them evicted from their houses. The men were led by Fred Krahe, a former detective with the New South Wales Police. Krahe had been sacked amidst allegations of organising bank robberies and he was suspected of murdering whistleblower and prostitute Shirley Brifman and other Sydney crime figures.\n\nPolice officers did not intervene as Krahe's men worked. Residents would move into each other's houses so that no house was left unattended. On one occasion, when merchant seaman and jazz musician Mick Fowler returned from a period working at sea, he found that his house had been broken into, and all of his belongings taken. Fowler fought a protracted court battle to stay in his home but the strain of the struggle reputedly led to his early death in 1979, aged 50.\n\nEventually the green ban was broken in 1974 when the conservative federal leadership of the BLF, under pressure from New South Wales politicians, dismissed the leaders of the New South Wales branch, and replaced them with more conservative people. Nielsen and the residents were left as the only significant opposition to Theeman. Nielsen then convinced the Water Board Union to impose their own green ban. By early 1975, Theeman's company had spent about A$6 million (about A$37 million ) purchasing property in Kings Cross, and interest payments on loans were costing about A$3,000 a day.\n\nOn 4 July 1975, Nielsen, 38, went to the Carousel Club in Kings Cross in order to discuss advertising for the club in Nielsen's newspaper, \"NOW\". She had been invited there by Edward Trigg, an employee of the club. The club was one of a number of bars and strip clubs owned by Abe Saffron, who was a major figure in Sydney organised crime, and it was managed by James Anderson, who, as a later investigation revealed, owed A$260,000 (about A$1.6 million ) to Frank Theeman, and according to a 2008 book by Saffron's son Alan, Abe Saffron lent large sums of money to several prominent Sydney businessmen including Theeman.\n\nBefore June 1975 the Carousel had no connection with Nielsen or \"NOW\", but that month Anderson initiated contact by sending Nielsen an invitation to attend a press night at the club on 13 June. According to the \"Sydney Morning Herald\", she would not normally have been invited because \"NOW\" did not give free publicity to commercial ventures. In the event, Nielsen did not attend and both Trigg and the Carousel's receptionist Loretta Crawford have claimed that Anderson was \"furious\" about her non-appearance.\n\nA few days later Trigg instructed the Carousel's PR man Lloyd Marshall to invite Nielsen to a meeting at the Camperdown Travelodge, supposedly to discuss advertising related to landscaping, but Nielsen's boyfriend later recounted that Nielsen became suspicious and refused to attend.\n\nOn 30 June, four days before the Carousel appointment, Trigg and another man, Carousel barman Shayne Martin-Simmonds, phoned Nielsen's house on the pretext of inquiring about advertising the Carousel's businessmen's lunches in \"NOW\". It was later claimed that Trigg and Martin-Simmonds intended to seize Nielsen when she opened the door, but their plan was foiled when her friend David Farrell answered the door instead. The two men played out their cover story, but Nielsen was listening in an adjoining room and after they left she complimented Farrell on his handling of the query, teasing him by saying she might send him out on the road to sell advertising in \"NOW\".\n\nWhen interviewed by police on 6 November 1977, Martin-Simmonds confirmed that the advertising story was a ruse and that their actual intention was to kidnap Nielsen if she was alone and take her to see \"people who wanted to talk to her\". He said that he and Trigg intended to:\n\nAccording to her friend David Farrell, Nielsen was by then seriously concerned that her activism was putting her in danger. She mentioned her fears to Farrell about two weeks before her disappearance and she arranged to keep him regularly informed of her whereabouts.\n\nReceptionist Loretta Crawford claims that Trigg instructed her to call Nielsen on the night of Thursday 3 July to set up a meeting at the club for the following morning. Crawford now claims that she knew that the advertising story was \"bullshit\", since the club did not advertise in \"local rags\", that she was doubtful that Nielsen would attend, and that she was surprised that Nielsen kept the appointment.\n\nAt 10:30am on Friday 4 July, Nielsen telephoned David Farrell to tell him that she was running late for the meeting. According to Crawford, when Nielsen arrived she proceeded to the landing on the first floor where Crawford's reception desk was located. Crawford offered her a seat and a cup of coffee, after Nielsen remarked that she had had a \"hard night\" (i.e. she was hung over), but that Nielsen didn't get to drink the coffee because Trigg arrived. Crawford said that she noted that he was on time, which she thought unusual since he was often late. He and Nielsen exchanged greetings on the landing and went upstairs to Trigg's office.\n\nAt this point in her account, given to the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" in 2001, Crawford made a new claim: that she then made a phone call to Jim Anderson at his home in Vaucluse, told him that Nielsen had arrived and that he was \"quite pleased\" by the news. Crawford was adamant that she was, in no doubt whatsoever, certain that Anderson was at his home in Vaucluse—not in Surfers Paradise, Queensland, as he has always claimed.\n\nIn statements given to police, Trigg and Crawford said that Nielsen had left the club alone, although in 1976 Crawford changed her story to say that Nielsen and Trigg left together. Nielsen was not seen again. Her handbag and other effects were discovered on 12 July, abandoned near a freeway in Sydney's western suburbs.\n\nNew Zealand born transvestite Marilyn King (also known as Monet King), the former girlfriend of Trigg, told one journalist that Trigg had returned home on 4 July with blood on his clothes. A piece of paper in his pocket, which was later used by police as evidence before the coronial inquest, also had blood on it. This was supposedly a receipt signed by Nielsen for advertising money paid by Trigg. King said that Trigg threw out the shirt, and the portion of the paper with blood on it. King never gave testimony to the police or the coronial inquiry.\n\nIn late 1977, Trigg and two other employees at the \"Carousel Club\" were arrested and charged with conspiring to kidnap Nielsen. Trigg was imprisoned for three years, one other man was imprisoned for two years and the third was acquitted. However, it was still unclear what had actually happened to Nielsen. After the death of James Anderson in 2003, Crawford changed her story again. She claimed that she had seen Nielsen's body in the storeroom below the club, with Trigg and two other men standing over her. She saw that one of the men was holding a gun, and Nielsen's body had a small bullet wound.\n\nNielsen's body has never been found.\n\nThe obvious motive for Nielsen's presumed murder was her opposition to the Victoria Street development. However, there have also been claims that she was working on an exposé about vice, corruption and illegal gambling in the Cross. Her then boyfriend John Glebe gave evidence that Nielsen had told him about receiving telephone threats and he also testified that she carried cassette tapes in her handbag. According to Glebe, Nielsen had told him that the tapes could \"blow the top off\" an issue she was working on. An article in \"The Bulletin\" in 2005 ran claims by journalist Barry Ward that Nielsen had been given dossiers on \"prominent Sydney identities\" by private detective Allan Honeysett, and speculated that these documents would reputedly have exposed the principals involved in Sydney's illegal gaming industry.\n\nIn 2004 ABC-TV's \"The 7:30 Report\" broadcast a new interview with Loretta Crawford, who had been the receptionist at the Carousel Club at time of Nielsen's disappearance. Speaking with journalist Emma Alberici, Crawford claimed her previous testimony regarding Nielsen was false and had been concocted to protect her former boss, James Anderson, but that Anderson's recent death meant she was now free to reveal the truth. Crawford's new claim was that Nielsen had indeed been killed in the basement of the club in the presence of Trigg and Martin-Simmonds, that she had seen Nielsen's body on the floor, bearing a single small gunshot wound, and that she saw a third man, whom she did not name, standing over Nielsen's body, holding a pistol.\n\nIn March 2013 \"The Australian\" newspaper reported that, prior to his death in February 2013, Edward Trigg had written a \"deathbed\" manuscript which allegedly revealed the true facts of Trigg's involvement in the Nielsen case, that it \"named names\" of those involved in the Nielsen conspiracy, and that it revealed the resting place of Nielsen's remains. NSW police spokesperson confirmed that police from Redfern Local Area Command had searched Trigg's residence after his death, but they refused to comment on the outcome. An unnamed friend of Trigg's (a retired Kings Cross bouncer) told reporter Ean Higgins that the police visited Trigg's hotel room twice after his death:\n\nThe report also stated that two individuals claimed to have seen Trigg's manuscript, and that it was to be published after his death in the hope of providing an inheritance for his descendants.\n\nA coronial inquiry with a jury was held in 1983, which determined that Nielsen had probably been killed, although there was not enough evidence to show how she died or who killed her. The inquest did note that police corruption may have crippled the investigation into her death at the time.\n\nA Joint Committee of the Commonwealth Parliament of Australia was formed in 1994 to further investigate her disappearance. It also concluded that corruption impeded the police investigation. She was declared as deceased by an inquest.\n\nAlthough it has never been established who killed Nielsen, there are several major suspects in the conspiracy to silence her.\n\nThe Kings Cross Sting Private Investigation named three persons of interest in the case of Juanita Nielsen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2440535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2440535", "title": "King Pharmaceuticals", "text": "King Pharmaceuticals\n\nKing Pharmaceuticals, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer based in Bristol, Tennessee. Before being acquired by Pfizer, it was the world's 39th largest pharmaceutical company. On October 12, 2010, King was acquired by Pfizer for $14.25 per share. King produced a wide range of pharmaceuticals, including Altace for heart attack prevention, Levoxyl for hypothyroidism, Sonata, a sleeping aid, and Skelaxin, a muscle relaxant. King Pharmaceuticals operated manufacturing facilities in Bristol, Tennessee; Rochester, Michigan; St. Louis, Missouri; St. Petersburg, Florida; and Middleton, Wisconsin. They employed approximately 2,700 people including a sales force of over 1,000 individuals.\n\nKing Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Tennessee in 1993. According to the King Pharmaceutcals, Inc. Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the wholly owned subsidiaries of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. are Monarch Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc.; Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc.; Parkedale Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; King Pharmaceuticals Canada Inc.; and Monarch Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited.\n\nKing Pharmaceuticals was founded in 1993 John M. Gregory, Randal J. Kirk, Joseph \"Joe\" R. Gregory, Jefferson \"Jeff\" J. Gregory, and James E. Gregory. In January 1994, King acquired a former King College campus plant in Bristol, Tennessee. The facility was purchased for $1.18 million from RSR Pharmaceutical, who had been using it after Beecham merged with SmithKline. King initially manufactured drugs for other pharmaceutical companies, but soon established a strategy of acquiring branded prescription drugs, which have a much higher gross margin than contract manufactured drugs.\n\nIn February 1998, King acquired 15 branded pharmaceuticals, a sterile products manufacturing facility located in Rochester, Michigan that it called the \"Parkedale Facility\") and some contract manufacturing contracts. By December 1998 King had placed its sterile products business into a subsidiary it named Parkedale Pharmaceuticals.\n\nKing Pharmaceuticals obtained about twenty smaller branded drugs from the start up of the company until it went public in June 1998. The King Pharmaceuticals subsidiary Monarch Pharmaceuticals acquired one of its most profitable branded drugs, Altace, later the same year on December 18, 1998 from Hoechst Marion Roussel.\n\nDuring 1994, the U.S. National Right to Life Committee announced an anti-RU-486 boycott, targeting all Hoechst pharmaceutical products including Altace™. By September 17, the pro-life organization Pharmacists For Life International joined the NRLC anti-RU-486 boycott \"...against the American subsidiary of Hoechst, AG Hoechst-Roussel, Hoechst-Celanese, its generic subsidiary Copley Pharmaceuticals and the agricultural Hoechst subsidiary\" while asking U.S. consumers to \"...focus on key Hoechst drugs which have the most economic impact rather than taking an across-the-board shotgun approach\" and specifically targeting Altace as a boycott list item.\n\nHoechst merged with Marion Merrill Dow of Kansas City, Missouri in 1995, forming the Hoechst U.S. pharmaceutical subsidiary Hoechst Marion Roussel (HMR). Altace was bringing in under $90 million in U.S. revenues for HMR and Hoechst had stopped promoting Altace within the United States., and King Pharmaceuticals President Jefferson \"Jeff\" Gregory also began negotiations in 1995 with Hoechst to acquire U.S. distribution rights to Altace.\n\nThe King Pharmaceuticals wholly owned subsidiary Monarch Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (another brother of John Gregory - Joseph Gregory - was then the president of Monarch Pharmaceuticals) acquired ownership of the U.S. distribution and marketing rights to Altace and other Hoescht products from Hoescht AG subsidiary Hoechst Marion Roussel of Kansas City, Missouri on December 18, 1998, and following a January 1999 merger a few weeks later with Rhône-Poulenc, Hoechst assumed the new corporate identity of Aventis).\n\nIn 2001, \"Forbes\" magazine ranked John Gregory among the 400 richest Americans. The bulk of Gregory's personal fortune was due in large part due to the ability of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to reintroduce the Hoechst branded prescription drug Altace back into the U.S. market under the King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. subsidiary Monarch Pharmaceuticals brand following the 1998 U.S. marketing and distribution agreement between King Pharmaceuticals/Monarch Pharmaceuticals and AG Hoechst/HMR.\n\nIn late December 1998, King Pharmaceuticals (d.b.a. Monarch Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) purchased the U.S. marketing and distribution rights of the company's most successful drug, Altace, for $362.5 million from the U.S. subsidiary of Hoechst AG, Hoechst Marion Roussel of Kansas City. As a result of increasing the number of sales representatives and the findings of the Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation (HOPE), Altace sales skyrocketed. Using profits from Altace, King continued to add product lines, the most significant purchases being Levoxyl, Thrombin, and Cytomel in 2000. Also in 2000, seeing fewer opportunities to obtain branded drugs, the company acquired an R&D company based in North Carolina. In 2002, King and Meridian Medical Technologies Inc. agreed that King would purchase Merdian for $247.8 million in cash; Meridian was a manufacturer of autoinjectors, including EpiPen, an epinephrine autoinjector. The deal was completed in January 2003.\n\nIn 2002, John Gregory stepped down as CEO, and his brother Jefferson Gregory took over. Then in 2004, Jeff Gregory stepped down as well after the SEC began investigations into King’s Medicaid billing practices. The board named Brian Markison to replace him. Soon after, in July 2004, a deal was made for Mylan Laboratories to acquire King for $4 billion. Investors, most notably Carl Icahn, were critical of the merger, saying that Mylan was overpaying for King. The next year the deal was called off.\n\nIn 2008 King Pharmaceuticals acquired Alpharma Pharmaceuticals to expand into the pain treatment market. From the acquisition, King gained the patents on the pain management drugs, Flector and Embeda.\n\nOn October 12, 2010, Pfizer Inc. () announced it would acquire Bristol-based King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for a total cost to Pfizer of $3.6 billion in cash or $14.25 per share. The acquisition was expected to expand Pfizer's product line of pain relief and management medication by adding King products such as Embeda, Avinza, and the Flector Patch. Other product lines that made King attractive to Pfizer included the EpiPen for emergency delivery of medications and the Alpharma animal health line.\n\n"}
{"id": "40849158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849158", "title": "Kirsten v Bailey", "text": "Kirsten v Bailey\n\nIn Kirsten v Bailey, an important case in the South African law of succession, a testatrix made three wills. In the first and third, Bailey was nominated as the sole beneficiary of her estate; in the second will, Kirsten was nominated as the sole beneficiary. Kirsten challenged the validity of the third will.\n\nThe court held that Bailey had led the testatrix to believe that he would leave her unless she appointed him her sole heir. Thus, Kirsten had proved that the testatrix was unduly influenced, and accordingly lacked the requisite capacity. The testatrix therefore was held to have died intestate.\n\nThe effect of the ruling is that if a court declares the last in a series of wills to be invalid \"ab initio\", the deceased is deemed to have died intestate. The court will not give effect to an earlier will, as it had already been revoked.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57174985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57174985", "title": "Luis Montes Mieza", "text": "Luis Montes Mieza\n\nLuis Montes Mieza (1949 – 19 April 2018), was a Spanish anesthetist and pro-euthanasia activist. He was the Federal President of the association \"Derecho a Morir Dignamente\" from 2009 till his death.\n\nDr. Montes had a degree in Medicine from the Complutense University of Madrid. In 1987 he joined as an anesthesiologist in the recently created Hospital Severo Ochoa of Leganés, of which he was Director and, since 2000, Emergency Coordinator of the Hospital, a position he held until 2005. At the time of his death, he was a physician in the Emergency Department of the Severo Ochoa Hospital in Leganés.\n\nIn May 2005 Luis Montes Mieza and Miguel Ángel López Varas were investigated by the Health Department of the Community of Madrid, by Manuel Lamela Fernández, because of two anonymous denunciations in which they were accused of sedations in high doses in terminally ill patients in the Emergency Service of the Severo Ochoa Hospital that he coordinated. According to press reports, at that time the deaths in the emergency room of Severo Ochoa tripled percentage of the average of the other hospitals in Madrid. The report presented by the Regional Ministry of Health identified 73 cases of sedation performed incorrectly between 1 September 2003 and 8 March 2005. In 2005, Dr. Montes Mieza was dismissed as coordinator at the request of Lamela. According to press reports, after the dismissal of Montes as Director of the Severo Ochoa Emergency Department, deaths in the service were halved. In January 2008, the court closed the case ratifying the dismissal that already in the month of June 2007 had determined and suppressed the legal basis that refers to the malpractice of the defendants. The courts concluded that the causes of deaths in the cases analyzed were not can certainly be attributed to the sedation, so the accusation was not proven, which does not mean that the Court had ruled the absence of malpractice.\n\nOn 28 January 2009, Luis Montes Mieza and Miguel Ángel López filed a complaint - admitted for processing - for false accusation and falsehood against Manuel Lamela Fernández and the six doctors who signed the report with which he was accused of incriminating - Isidro Álvarez Martín, of the Regional Ministry of Health; Hernán Cortés-Funes, of Hospital 12 de Octubre; Manuel Gómez Barón, of Hospital Universitario La Paz; DoloreS Crespo Hervás, of Hospital Ramón y Cajal; Francisco López Timoneda, of Hospital Clínico de Madrid and Bartolomé Bonet Serra, of the Hospital de Alcorcón-. In April 2011 the chief of the Court of Instruction Number 43 of Madrid agreed on the \"free dismissal and the file\" of the complaint. \n\nIn April 2011, the sentence condemning Miguel Ángel Rodríguez, former spokesman of the government of José María Aznar, was convicted to pay 30,000 euros as the author of a \"continuing offense of serious injury with advertising\" against Luis Montes Mieza. \n\nFrom 2009 until his death on 2018, Luis Montes was the Federal President of the association Right to Dignify Dignity, an association that defends the decriminalization of euthanasia, universal access to palliative care hospital and extra-hospital, to sedation, the implantation and diffusion of the living will, and the right to the autonomy of the patient, as well as respect for his will and individual freedom.\n\nIn 2011 the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, by Minister of Health, Leire Pajín, promoted in Congress of Deputies a national law on dignified death (under the name of the Law Regulating the Rights of the Person before the Final Process of Life) that could not be processed before the end of the legislature in November 2011, with the aim of regulating at national level much of what is included in the territorial laws on which it was inspired and which aim to provide legal security for professionals and guarantees for patients and family members within the framework of medical praxis. Parliaments of Andalusia, Aragón and Navarra approved same laws.\n\nMontes died on 19 April 2018, of a heart attack, while driving to Molina de Segura (Region of Murcia).\n"}
{"id": "22467060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22467060", "title": "MagnaCarta 2", "text": "MagnaCarta 2\n\nMagnaCarta 2 (마그나카르타 2 \"Mageunakareuta 2\", マグナカルタ2 \"Magunakaruta 2\") is a video game developed by South Korean developer Softmax and published by Namco Bandai Games exclusively for Xbox 360. It is a follow-up to the role-playing video games \"\" released on Windows and \"\" released on the PlayStation 2. It was released in Japan on August 6, 2009 and in North America on October 13, 2009. This marks the series' first entry onto a seventh generation console. The game was officially unveiled in the April 2009 edition of \"Famitsu\" magazine.\n\nIn \"MagnaCarta 2\", the player controls their characters from a third-person perspective, usually in one of two \"Modes\". In Movement Mode, the player explores the area, talks with other characters and interacts with the environment. In Combat Mode, the player character enters a battle stance, which lets them fight enemies at the cost of slower movement speed.\n\nThe game's battle system combines strategic turn-based and real-time elements and battles directly occur in the field, with no loading screens. Up to three active members can be in the field at any one time, with the remaining three members waiting to be switched in. The player can choose between using normal attacks or moves that use Kan, a type of energy. These Kan moves generate or use Kan. If all three active members' hit points reach zero, the game is over and the player restarts from their last save point.\n\nAs the player presses the attack button, their character's \"Overdrive\" gauge will fill up. Once full, the character will enter an \"Overdrive\" state, where their attack power is increased. However, once the player can no longer attack, their character will fall into an \"Overheat\" state, rendering them unable to attack until the gauge lowers enough for them to attack again. Players can use this gauge to their advantage by using \"Chain Drives\"—the process of Overdriving one character into Overheat, immediately switching to another character already present, then Overdriving them as well. This frees both members' Overdrive gauges, enabling both to attack without hindrance. Players can also use Solo and Co-op Techniques, which unleash devastating combination attacks on their target.\n\nThe player collects Kamonds to power-up weapons via their accompanying \"Kamond Board\". Kamonds are also used to strengthen characters and craft new items. Kamonds are usually obtained by defeating monsters or Sentinels, but can also be found in treasure chests or as rewards for finishing quests. At Kamond Shops, players can craft to turn Kamonds into new accessories. Recipes and money are needed to craft with Kamonds. Recipes are earned as rewards for completing certain quests.\n\n\"MagnaCarta 2\" is set in the fictional kingdom of Lanzheim, divided by an ongoing civil war between the Northern Forces, led by the usurper Shuenzeit Baron; and the Southern Forces, led by Rzephilda \"Zephie\" Berlinette, the Princess of Lanzheim. In response to the Northern Forces' \"Sentinels\"—destructive, living weapons based on the extinct Carta race—Zephie forms the Counter-Sentinel Unit in order to turn the tide. However, while trying to find the Sentinels' weakness, Zephie's bodyguard Rue is captured by the Northern Forces. Zephie goes to rescue her friend: however, as they make their escape, they are intercepted by Schuenzeit's best soldier, Elgar the Regicide. Zephie takes Elgar's killing blow to Rue and despite what should have been a mortal wound, drives Elgar away.\n\nTwo years later, on Highwind Island, an ancient weapon similar to the Sentinels is discovered in the island's ancient ruins. Because of this, Juto—a young amnesiac with a fear of swords—soon encounters Zephie and Argo, who came to investigate the weapon for the Southern Forces. Learning that Northern Forces soldiers have arrived in the ruins and remembering that his adoptive sister, Melissa, had gone there earlier, Juto volunteers to guide the Counter-Sentinel Unit members to the ruins. Upon arrival, they find that the Northern Forces have activated the weapon. When the weapon injures Melissa, Juto single-handedly destroys the weapon in a berserker rage.\n\nAfter developing \"\", a team of 40 at Softmax partnered with Namco Bandai to create MagnaCarta 2 for the Xbox 360, using the Unreal Engine 3.\n\nDevelopment of \"MagnaCarta 2\" began between 2004 and 2005, taking over 4 years to finish.\n\nThe game received generally mixed reviews from critics, earning an aggregate Metacritic score of 69. IGN criticized the battle system stating, \"this feels almost archaic and could have been run on a PS1, enemy AI is almost non-existent and character abilities are generic.\" Robert Townslend of \"Game Informer\" said, \"While the story starts off having the potential to be great, it quickly degrades into the same old story of a young man with no memories saving a kingdom. This has only been done thousands of times in other games.\" Annette Gonzalez of \"Game Informer\" was more positive, citing that the \"[b]attles are intuitive and addicting, although awkward camera angles can sometimes hinder combat\"; and praising the voice cast, saying the fully voiced dialogue is a \"vast improvement over \"Tears of Blood\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13299138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13299138", "title": "Murder of Joana Cipriano", "text": "Murder of Joana Cipriano\n\nJoana Isabel Cipriano (born 31 May 1996) disappeared on 12 September 2004 from Figueira, a village near Portimão in the Algarve region of Portugal. An investigation by the \"Polícia Judiciária\", Portugal's criminal police, concluded that she had been murdered by her mother, Leonor Cipriano, and her uncle, João Cipriano, after witnessing them engaged in incestuous sex. Her body was never found.\n\nThe mother and uncle confessed to police in October 2004; the uncle said he had cut the girl's body into pieces before disposing of it somewhere in Spain. Joana's mother withdrew her confession the day after signing it, alleging that she had been beaten during a 48-hour-long interrogation. The police officers accounted for the bruising on the mother's face and body by maintaining that she had thrown herself down some stairs in the police station in an effort to commit suicide. Both the mother and uncle were convicted of murder and sentenced to sixteen years in jail. It was the first murder trial in Portuguese legal history to take place without the discovery of a body.\n\nFive officers were charged with a variety of offences as a result of the allegations of assault; three were acquitted. One of the two officers who was convicted, Chief Inspector Gonçalo Amaral, led the investigation into the disappearance of Madeleine McCann, a British girl who went missing in May 2007 from the nearby resort of Praia da Luz. Amaral was not present during the alleged assault, but was accused of having covered up for other officers; he was convicted of having falsified police documents in the case and received an eighteen-month suspended sentence.\n\nSeveral similarities between the cases—both girls vanished without trace within and less than three years of each other, both cases had officers who failed to secure the crime scene, both mothers mounted campaigns to find their daughters and both women were accused of involvement—prompted Joana's family to appeal in 2008 for police to investigate whether there was a link between the disappearances.\n\nJoana Cipriano, eight years old at the time, was last seen at around 8 pm on the evening she disappeared, after being sent to buy milk and a tin of tuna from a local store. A neighbour saw her around 200 yards from her house, walking back from the store. Her mother, Leonor Cipriano, launched a local campaign to find her daughter, distributing posters around the neighbourhood.\n\nThe prosecution argued that Joana was killed because she had seen her mother and João Cipriano, her mother's brother, having sex. Leonor confessed to killing her daughter after nearly 48 hours of continuous interrogation. Her brother confessed to having assaulted Joana, and said he had cut her body into small pieces and placed her inside a refrigerator, which was put inside an old car that was taken to Spain to be crushed and burned. When he was asked if he had sexually abused Joana, he said, \"I did not harm her - I only killed her.\"\n\nLeonor retracted her confession the day after making it, claiming she had been beaten. She suffered extensive bruising to her face and body, which the police said was caused by her throwing herself down some stairs in the police station in an effort to kill herself. Five officers, including Gonçalo Amaral, head of the regional \"Polícia Judiciária\" in Portimão at the time, were charged with a number of offences. The indictment alleged that several of them had kicked Leonor, hit her with a cardboard tube, put a plastic bag over her head, and made her kneel on glass ashtrays.\n\nThree officers, Leonel Marques, Paulo Pereira Cristóvão and Paulo Marques Bom, were acquitted of torture. Amaral was not present at the time of the alleged beating but was accused of having covered up for the other officers, which he denied. He was convicted of perjury in May 2009 for having falsified documents in the case, and received an eighteen-month suspended sentence. Another officer, António Nunes Cardoso, was also found guilty of having falsified documents and received a two-and-a-half year suspended sentence.\n\nThe village of Figueira is only seven miles from Praia da Luz, where Madeleine McCann disappeared on 3 May 2007. In both cases the mothers launched campaigns to find their daughters and in both cases the local \"Polícia Judiciária\" investigated the possibility that the mothers had killed their daughters.\n\nA child protection specialist, Mark Williams-Thomas, who believes that Joana's and Madeleine's disappearances are related, said that the disappearance of two children unknown to each other, within a period of four years in a seven-mile radius, would be a huge coincidence, especially considering that Portugal is a small country with few abductions. Before Joana's disappearance, the previous first-degree murder of a child in the Algarve region was in November 1990 and involved a British girl, nine-year-old Rachel Charles, who was abducted and murdered in Albufeira. Her body was found three days later; a British mechanic and friend of the family, Michael Cook, was arrested and convicted. Leandro Silva, Leonor's common-law husband, said in 2007 that \"the only difference between the McCanns and us is that we don't have money.\"\n"}
{"id": "7219294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7219294", "title": "Murder of Johnathon Robert Madden", "text": "Murder of Johnathon Robert Madden\n\nJohnathon Robert Madden (11 May 1991 – 25 November 2003) was a twelve-year-old Canadian boy whose gruesome murder at the hands of his sixteen-year-old brother Kevin Madden and his brother's friend Timothy Ferriman provoked widespread revulsion and outrage in Johnathon's home city of Toronto and across Canada.\n\nThe ensuing trials of Madden and Ferriman have created a media sensation in Toronto and in the Canadian English media generally, which intensified after the first trial ended in a mistrial when a key witness was discovered to have committed perjury.\n\nMadden and Ferriman were convicted, respectively, of first-degree murder and manslaughter in early 2006, but until September 29, 2006, when Justice David McCombs elected to sentence the youths as adults, the names of the principals in the case were precluded from publication by provisions of Canada's Youth Criminal Justice Act.\n\nOn the afternoon of November 25, Kevin Madden (then 16) was at home, accompanied by Timothy Ferriman and another friend, who remains publicly unidentified. The three began to extensively vandalize the family home, smashing beer bottles and a television with baseball bats, while drinking wine. Less than an hour before attacking Johnathon, all three spoke on the telephone to Ferriman's girlfriend indicating that a mass murder would occur; she tape-recorded this conversation.\n\nShortly thereafter, Kevin Madden attacked Johnathon with a butcher knife, cutting his face and neck 71 times, and severing his voice box and his carotid artery. Though present, Ferriman did not stab Johnathon himself but encouraged Kevin and handed him the knife, and afterwards helped to move Johnathon's body.\n\nFollowing Johnathon's death, the boys hid his body in a basement crawl space. Together, the three awaited the arrival of Kevin's and Johnathon's stepfather, Ralston Champagnie, coming home from work. Upon Champagnie's arrival, he was attacked with a baseball bat and knife, but managed to escape from the house.\n\nJohnathon's body was retrieved later that evening. All three boys were arrested within 24 hours of the incident.\n\nThe first court case relied on Ferriman's girlfriend as the Crown's key witness. It ended in a mistrial after she apparently perjured herself.\n\nShe made several posts on the site vampirefreaks.com indicating an interest in vampirism, which contradicted earlier court testimony.\n\nDuring the second case, Kevin Madden stated that \"people who did not know Johnathon should not be concerned about what happened to him\" \n\nThe verdict for the second court case was delivered on 27 February 2006. The jury determined that Kevin Madden was guilty of first-degree murder for his role in Johnathon's death, and guilty of attempted murder for his attack on his stepfather, Champagnie. Ferriman was found guilty of manslaughter for assisting in Johnathon's death. The third boy, who remains unidentified, was acquitted.\n\nIn the sentencing hearing on 29 September 2006, Justice David McCombs determined that Madden and Ferriman should be sentenced as adults, which permitted their identities, and those of the rest of Madden's family, to be published for the first time.\n\nBoth Madden's and Ferriman's lawyers indicated they were displeased with that their clients were not sentenced as youths. Speaking of Madden, who had expressed no remorse or emotion in response to his actions throughout the trials, his lawyer said \"Kevin desperately needs treatment, and unfortunately he's not going to get it. We could have had 10 years of in-depth treatment in the youth system and he's not going to get it.\" Ferriman's lawyer indicated he would appeal the decision, while Madden's lawyer said he was considering it.\n\nIn the sentencing hearing, Ferriman addressed the court and apologized for what he had done. His remorse enabled his sentence to be served in a youth facility.\n\nFollowing the release of information after the publication ban was lifted, Joanne Champagnie, mother of Johnathon and Kevin Madden, launched a website dedicated to Johnathon's memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "44671978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44671978", "title": "My Love, Don't Cross That River", "text": "My Love, Don't Cross That River\n\nMy Love, Don't Cross That River () is a 2013 South Korean documentary film that follows elderly married couple Jo Byeong-man and Kang Kye-yeol until the last moments of their 76-year marriage. Documentary filmmaker Jin Mo-young filmed Jo and Kang in the couple's mountain village in Hoengseong County, Gangwon Province for 15 months.\n\n\"My Love, Don't Cross That River\" premiered at the 2013 DMZ International Documentary Film Festival, where it won the Audience Award. It was released in theaters on 27 November 2014 and through word of mouth became the most commercially successful Korean documentary/independent film of all time.\n\nMarried couple, 95-year-old Jo Byeong-man and 90-year-old Kang Kye-yeol, were first featured onscreen in a five-episode segment titled \"Gray-haired Lovers\" on a KBS television documentary program that aired in 2011. After documentary filmmaker Jin Mo-young saw Jo and Kang on TV, he rushed to the couple's mountain village in Hoengseong County, Gangwon Province and asked them if he could make their story into a possible film. After obtaining their permission in September 2012, Jin followed the couple for 15 months and documented their everyday life.\n\nUpon its theatrical release on 27 November 2014, the film became the most commercially successful Korean independent film of all time in terms of revenue and attendance.\n\nIn South Korea, the film topped the box office during its opening weekend with () ahead of its competition, Hollywood films \"Interstellar\", \"\" and \"The Theory of Everything\". It was the second time ever and the first time in five years that a documentary film had topped the Korean box office since \"Old Partner\" opened at No. 1 in 2009. It has so far grossed () in 15 days, which is 70 times its production budget of (). As of January 2015, the film drew 3.73 million admissions, beating \"Old Partner\"'s record (2.93 million) to become the highest grossing Korean independent/documentary film of all time.\n\n\"My Love, Don't Cross That River\" has received mostly positive reviews from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film an approval rating of 84%, based on 25 reviews, with an average rating of 6.5/10. On Metacritic, the film has a score of 68 out of 100, based on 8 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nFrank Scheck of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" gave a positive review calling it \"the cinematic equivalent of marriage counseling.\"\n\nAside from DMZ Docs, the film was also invited to screen at the Moscow International Film Festival, Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival, the Sydney Film Festival, and the Los Angeles Film Festival in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "47709852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47709852", "title": "National Campus Climate Survey", "text": "National Campus Climate Survey\n\nThe National Campus Climate Survey (NCCS) is a service offered to institutions of higher education in the United States who would like to better understand and improve their campus climate with regards to sexual assault and related topics. The study is designed to:\n\n\nThe National Campus Climate Survey was developed at the University of Michigan in collaboration with a local survey research firm, SoundRocket (formerly known as Survey Sciences Group, LLC)\n\nThe study was developed in response to the report from the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault.\n\nThe National Campus Climate Survey launched its service and website (www.nationalcampusclimatesurvey.com) on September 1, 2015 and is currently enrolling institutions of higher education into the Spring 2016 data collection.\n\nThe core NCCS design uses a sample survey approach rather than a census of all students. (However, schools will have the option to conduct a census if they wish.) A randomly selected sample of students (undergraduates and graduates) allows the study to make scientifically based inferences to the population as a whole, helps focus finite research resources on successfully contacting and encouraging the participation of the broadest group of students, and reduces survey burden on an often over-surveyed population.\n\nThe NCCS will request sample data from university registrars (i.e. gender, race/ethnicity, year in school, on/off campus residence) in addition to contact information to allow for nonresponse analyses to be conducted. If deemed appropriate, the NCCS may generate nonresponse bias weights for the final analytic data file.\n\nThe NCCS will be implemented as a web-based, mobile-optimized survey, to ensure the data collected is of highest quality. Logical branching and filters will be used to tailor the questionnaire appropriately for each individual. Data collection will include at least four email contacts, and may include mailed prenotification letters, telephone calls, and in-person visits (depending on the service level selected). Data will be collected between January and April, 2016.\n\nThe NCCS has a three-tiered service structure, designed to meet the specific needs of the local campus.\n\nMore specifics regarding the Tier services are available on the study website service levels page.\n\nThe survey instrument and methodology were designed by a team, led by the University of Michigan’s Survey Research Center and including representatives from Student Life at the University of Michigan, the Office of the General Counsel at the University of Michigan, and SoundRocket. The team designed the survey measurements to include both the prevalence and incidence of sexual assault on campus, as well as perceptions of campus climate. The methodological team drew heavily upon behavioral-specific questions from the Sexual Experiences Survey to measure the prevalence and incidence of sexual assault, because such questions have been researched and validated. (1) The design features of this survey have demonstrated effectiveness in minimizing response errors in web surveys, as well as minimizing overall respondent burden. (2) The average length for completion of the survey instrument is less than 15 minutes. \n\nAn early draft of the survey instrument is available at the University of Michigan 2015 Campus Climate Surveys Regarding Sexual Misconduct page.\n"}
{"id": "20784262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20784262", "title": "Pere d'Abella", "text": "Pere d'Abella\n\nPere d'Abella was a 15th-century Catalan poet. He is the author of \"Pus aix-t plau ta bandera estendre\" (It pleases your flag to fly), in which he expresses the conventions of troubadour love.\n"}
{"id": "49198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49198", "title": "Reductionism", "text": "Reductionism\n\nReductionism is any of several related philosophical ideas regarding the associations between phenomena which can be described in terms of other simpler or more fundamental phenomena.\n\n\"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\" suggests that reductionism is \"one of the most used and abused terms in the philosophical lexicon\" and suggests a three part division:\n\nReductionism can be applied to any phenomenon, including objects, explanations, theories, and meanings.\n\nFor the sciences, application of methodological reductionism attempts explanation of entire systems in terms of their individual, constituent parts and their interactions. For example, the temperature of a gas is reduced to nothing beyond the average kinetic energy of its molecules in motion. Thomas Nagel speaks of 'psychophysical reductionism' (the attempted reduction of psychological phenomena to physics and chemistry), as do others and 'physico-chemical reductionism' (the attempted reduction of biology to physics and chemistry), again as do others. In a very simplified and sometimes contested form, such reductionism is said to imply that a system is nothing but the sum of its parts. However, a more nuanced opinion is that a system is composed entirely of its parts, but the system will have features that none of the parts have. \"The point of mechanistic explanations is usually showing how the higher level features arise from the parts.\"\n\nOther definitions are used by other authors. For example, what John Polkinghorne terms 'conceptual' or 'epistemological' reductionism is the definition provided by Simon Blackburn and by Jaegwon Kim: that form of reductionism concerning a program of replacing the facts or entities entering statements claimed to be true in one type of discourse with other facts or entities from another type, thereby providing a relationship between them. Such an association is provided where the same idea can be expressed by \"levels\" of explanation, with higher levels reducible if need be to lower levels. This use of levels of understanding in part expresses our human limitations in remembering detail. However, \"most philosophers would insist that our role in conceptualizing reality [our need for an hierarchy of \"levels\" of understanding] does not change the fact that different levels of organization in reality do have different 'properties'.\"\n\nReductionism strongly represents a certain perspective of causality. In a reductionist framework, the phenomena that can be explained completely in terms of relations between other more fundamental phenomena, are termed epiphenomena. Often there is an implication that the epiphenomenon exerts no causal agency on the fundamental phenomena that explain it. The epiphenomena are sometimes said to be \"nothing but\" the outcome of the workings of the fundamental phenomena, although the epiphenomena might be more clearly and efficiently described in very different terms. There is a tendency to avoid considering an epiphenomenon as being important in its own right. This attitude may extend to cases where the fundamentals are not obviously able to explain the epiphenomena, but are expected to by the speaker. In this way, for example, morality can be deemed to be \"nothing but\" evolutionary adaptation, and consciousness can be considered \"nothing but\" the outcome of neurobiological processes.\n\nReductionism should be distinguished from eliminationism: reductionists do not deny the existence of phenomena, but explain them in terms of another reality; eliminationists deny the existence of the phenomena themselves. For example, eliminationists deny the existence of life by their explanation in terms of physical and chemical processes.\n\nReductionism also does not preclude the existence of what might be termed emergent phenomena, but it does imply the ability to understand those phenomena completely in terms of the processes from which they are composed. This reductionist understanding is very different from emergentism, which intends that what emerges in \"emergence\" is more than the sum of the processes from which it emerges.\n\nMost philosophers delineate three types of reductionism and anti-reductionism.\n\nOntological reductionism is the belief that reality is composed of a minimum number of kinds of entities or substances. This claim is usually metaphysical, and is most commonly a form of monism, in effect claiming that all objects, properties and events are reducible to a single substance. (A dualist who is an ontological reductionist would believe that everything is reducible to two substances—as one possible example, a dualist might claim that reality is composed of \"matter\" and \"spirit\".)\n\nRichard Jones divides ontological reductionism into two: the reductionism of substances (e.g., the reduction of mind to matter) and the reduction of the number of structures operating in nature (e.g., the reduction of one physical force to another). This permits scientists and philosophers to affirm the former while being anti-reductionists regarding the latter.\n\nNancey Murphy has claimed that there are two species of ontological reductionism: one that denies that wholes are anything more than their parts; and the stronger thesis of atomist reductionism that wholes are not \"really real\". She admits that the phrase \"really real\" is apparently senseless but nonetheless has tried to explicate the supposed difference between the two.\n\nOntological reductionism denies the idea of ontological emergence, and claims that emergence is an epistemological phenomenon that only exists through analysis or description of a system, and does not exist fundamentally.\n\nOntological reductionism takes two different forms: token ontological reductionism and type ontological reductionism.\n\nToken ontological reductionism is the idea that every item that exists is a sum item. For perceivable items, it affirms that every perceivable item is a sum of items with a lesser degree of complexity. Token ontological reduction of biological things to chemical things is generally accepted.\n\nType ontological reductionism is the idea that every type of item is a sum type of item, and that every perceivable type of item is a sum of types of items with a lesser degree of complexity. Type ontological reduction of biological things to chemical things is often rejected.\n\nMichael Ruse has criticized ontological reductionism as an improper argument against vitalism.\n\nMethodological reductionism is the position that the best scientific strategy is to attempt to reduce explanations to the smallest possible entities. Methodological reductionism would thus include the claim that the atomic explanation of a substance's boiling point is preferable to the chemical explanation, and that an explanation based on even smaller particles (quarks and leptons, perhaps) would be even better. Methodological reductionism, therefore, is the opinion that all scientific theories either can or should be reduced to a single super~theory through the process of theoretical reduction.\n\nTheory reduction is the process by which one theory absorbs another. For example, both Kepler's laws of the motion of the planets and Galileo's theories of motion formulated for terrestrial objects are reducible to Newtonian theories of mechanics because all the explanatory power of the former are contained within the latter. Furthermore, the reduction is considered to be beneficial because Newtonian mechanics is a more general theory—that is, it explains more events than Galileo's or Kepler's. Theoretical reduction, therefore, is the reduction of one explanation or theory to another—that is, it is the absorption of one of our ideas about a particular item into another idea.\n\nReductionist thinking and methods form the basis for many of the well-developed topics of modern science, including much of physics, chemistry and cell biology. Classical mechanics in particular is seen as a reductionist framework, and statistical mechanics can be considered as a reconciliation of macroscopic thermodynamic laws with the reductionist method of explaining macroscopic properties in terms of microscopic components.\n\nIn science, reductionism implies that certain topics of study are based on areas that study smaller spatial scales or organizational units. While it is commonly accepted that the foundations of chemistry are based in physics, and molecular biology is based on chemistry, similar statements become controversial when one considers less rigorously defined intellectual pursuits. For example, claims that sociology is based on psychology, or that economics is based on sociology and psychology would be met with reservations. These claims are difficult to substantiate even though there are obvious associations between these topics (for instance, most would agree that psychology can affect and inform economics). The limit of reductionism's usefulness stems from emergent properties of complex systems, which are more common at certain levels of organization. For example, certain aspects of evolutionary psychology and sociobiology are rejected by some who claim that complex systems are inherently irreducible and that a holistic method is needed to understand them.\n\nSome strong reductionists believe that the behavioral sciences should become \"genuine\" scientific disciplines based on genetic biology, and on the systematic study of culture (see Richard Dawkins's concept of memes). In his book \"The Blind Watchmaker\", Dawkins introduced the term \"hierarchical reductionism\" to describe the opinion that complex systems can be described with a hierarchy of organizations, each of which is only described in terms of objects one level down in the hierarchy. He provides the example of a computer, which using hierarchical reductionism is explained in terms of the operation of hard drives, processors, and memory, but not on the level of logic gates, or on the even simpler level of electrons in a semiconductor medium.\n\nOthers argue that inappropriate use of reductionism limits our understanding of complex systems. In particular, ecologist Robert Ulanowicz says that science must develop techniques to study ways in which larger scales of organization influence smaller ones, and also ways in which feedback loops create structure at a given level, independently of details at a lower level of organization. He advocates (and uses) information theory as a framework to study propensities in natural systems. Ulanowicz attributes these criticisms of reductionism to the philosopher Karl Popper and biologist Robert Rosen.\n\nThe idea that phenomena such as emergence and work within the topic of complex systems theory pose limits to reductionism has been advocated by Stuart Kauffman. Emergence is especially relevant when systems exhibit historicity. Emergence is strongly related to nonlinearity. The limits of the application of reductionism are claimed to be especially evident at levels of organization with higher amounts of complexity, including living cells, neural networks, ecosystems, society, and other systems formed from assemblies of large numbers of diverse components linked by multiple feedback loops.\n\nNobel laureate Philip Warren Anderson used the idea that symmetry breaking is an example of an emergent phenomenon in his 1972 \"Science\" paper \"More is different\" to make an argument about the limitations of reductionism. One observation he made was that the sciences can be arranged roughly in a linear hierarchy—particle physics, solid state physics, chemistry, molecular biology, cellular biology, physiology, psychology, social sciences—in that the elementary entities of one science obeys the principles of the science that precedes it in the hierarchy; yet this does not imply that one science is just an applied version of the science that precedes it. He writes that \"At each stage, entirely new laws, concepts and generalizations are necessary, requiring inspiration and creativity to just as great a degree as in the previous one. Psychology is not applied biology nor is biology applied chemistry.\"\n\nDisciplines such as cybernetics and systems theory imply non-reductionism, sometimes to the extent of explaining phenomena at a given level of hierarchy in terms of phenomena at a higher level, in a sense, the opposite of reductionism.\n\nIn mathematics, reductionism can be interpreted as the philosophy that all mathematics can (or ought to) be based on a common foundation, which for modern mathematics is usually axiomatic set theory. Ernst Zermelo was one of the major advocates of such an opinion; he also developed much of axiomatic set theory. It has been argued that the generally accepted method of justifying mathematical axioms by their usefulness in common practice can potentially weaken Zermelo's reductionist claim.\n\nJouko Väänänen has argued for second-order logic as a foundation for mathematics instead of set theory, whereas others have argued for category theory as a foundation for certain aspects of mathematics.\n\nThe incompleteness theorems of Kurt Gödel, published during 1931, caused doubt about the attainability of an axiomatic foundation for all of mathematics. Any such foundation would have to include axioms powerful enough to describe the arithmetic of the natural numbers (a subset of all mathematics). Yet Gödel proved that for any self-consistent recursive axiomatic system powerful enough to describe the arithmetic of the natural numbers, there are propositions about the natural numbers that cannot be proved from the axioms, but which we can prove in the natural language with which we described the axioms. Such propositions are known as formally undecidable propositions. For example, the continuum hypothesis is undecidable in the Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory as shown by Cohen.\n\nReligious reductionism generally attempts to explain religion by explaining it in terms of nonreligious causes. A few examples of reductionistic explanations for the presence of religion are: that religion can be reduced to humanity's conceptions of right and wrong, that religion is fundamentally a primitive attempt at controlling our environments, that religion is a way to explain the existence of a physical world, and that religion confers an enhanced survivability for members of a group and so is reinforced by natural selection. Anthropologists Edward Burnett Tylor and James George Frazer employed some religious reductionist arguments. Sigmund Freud held that religion is nothing more than an illusion, or even a mental illness, and Marx claimed that religion is \"the sigh of the oppressed,\" and the opium of the people providing only \"the illusory happiness of the people,\" thus providing two influential examples of reductionistic views against the idea of religion.\n\nLinguistic reductionism is the idea that everything can be described or explained by a language with a limited number of concepts, and combinations of those concepts. An example is the language Toki Pona.\n\nThe concept of downward causation poses an alternative to reductionism within philosophy. This opinion is developed by Peter Bøgh Andersen, Claus Emmeche, Niels Ole Finnemann, and Peder Voetmann Christiansen, among others. These philosophers explore ways in which one can talk about phenomena at a larger-scale level of organization exerting causal influence on a smaller-scale level, and find that some, but not all proposed types of downward causation are compatible with science. In particular, they find that constraint is one way in which downward causation can operate. The notion of causality as constraint has also been explored as a way to shed light on scientific concepts such as self-organization, natural selection, adaptation, and control.\n\nPhilosophers of the Enlightenment worked to insulate human free will from reductionism. Descartes separated the material world of mechanical necessity from the world of mental free will. German philosophers introduced the concept of the \"noumenal\" realm that is not governed by the deterministic laws of \"phenomenal\" nature, where every event is completely determined by chains of causality. The most influential formulation was by Immanuel Kant, who distinguished between the causal deterministic framework the mind imposes on the world—the phenomenal realm—and the world as it exists for itself, the noumenal realm, which included free will. To insulate theology from reductionism, 19th century post-Enlightenment German theologians, especially Friedrich Schleiermacher and Albrecht Ritschl, used the Romantic method of basing religion on the human spirit, so that it is a person's feeling or sensibility about spiritual matters that comprises religion.\n\nThe anti-reductionist considers as minimum requirement upon the reductionist: \"At the very least the anti-reductionist is owed an account of why the intuitions arise if they are not accurate.\"\n\nA contrast to reductionism is holism or emergentism. Holism is the idea that items can have properties, (emergent properties), as a whole that are not explainable from the sum of their parts. The principle of holism was summarized concisely by Aristotle in the Metaphysics: \"The whole is more than the sum of its parts\".\n\nThe development of systems thinking has provided methods for describing issues in a holistic rather than a reductionist way, and many scientists use a holistic paradigm. When the terms are used in a scientific context, holism and reductionism refer primarily to what sorts of models or theories offer valid explanations of the natural world; the scientific method of falsifying hypotheses, checking empirical data against theory, is largely unchanged, but the method guides which theories are considered. The conflict between reductionism and holism in science is not universal—it usually concerns whether or not a holistic or reductionist method is appropriate in the context of studying a specific system or phenomenon.\n\nIn many cases (such as the kinetic theory of gases), given a good understanding of the components of the system, one can predict all the important properties of the system as a whole. In other systems, emergent properties of the system are said to be almost impossible to predict from knowledge of the parts of the system. Complexity theory studies systems and properties of the latter type.\n\nAlfred North Whitehead's metaphysics opposed reductionism. He refers to this as the \"fallacy of the misplaced concreteness\". His scheme was to frame a rational, general understanding of phenomena, derived from our reality.\n\nSven Erik Jorgensen, an ecologist, states both theoretical and practical arguments for a holistic method in certain topics of science, especially ecology. He argues that many systems are so complex that it will not ever be possible to describe all their details. Making an analogy to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle in physics, he argues that many interesting and relevant ecological phenomena cannot be replicated in laboratory conditions, and thus cannot be measured or observed without influencing and changing the system in some way. He also indicates the importance of interconnectedness in biological systems. His opinion is that science can only progress by outlining what questions are unanswerable and by using models that do not attempt to explain everything in terms of smaller hierarchical levels of organization, but instead model them on the scale of the system itself, taking into account some (but not all) factors from levels both higher and lower in the hierarchy.\n\nIn cognitive psychology, George Kelly developed \"constructive alternativism\" as a form of personal construct psychology, this provided an alternative to what he considered \"accumulative fragmentalism\". For this theory, knowledge is seen as the construction of successful mental models of the exterior world, rather than the accumulation of independent \"nuggets of truth\".\n\n\"Fragmentalism\" is an alternative term for ontological reductionism, although \"fragmentalism\" is frequently used in a pejorative sense. Anti-realists use the term fragmentalism in arguments that the world does not exist of separable entities, instead consisting of wholes. For example, advocates of this idea claim that: \n\nThe linear deterministic approach to nature and technology promoted a fragmented perception of reality, and a loss of the ability to foresee, to adequately evaluate, in all their complexity, global crises in ecology, civilization and education.\nThe term \"fragmentalism\" is usually applied to reductionist modes of thought, frequently with the related pejorative term of \"scientism\". This usage is popular amongst some ecological activists: There is a need now to move away from scientism and the ideology of cause-and-effect determinism toward a radical empiricism, such as William James proposed, as an epistemology of science. These perspectives are not new and during the early twentieth century, William James noted that rationalist science emphasized what he termed fragmentation and disconnection.\n\nSuch opinions also motivate many criticisms of the scientific method: \nThe scientific method only acknowledges monophasic consciousness. The method is a specialized system that emphasizes studying small and distinctive parts in isolation, which results in fragmented knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2918703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2918703", "title": "Sea Monsters (TV series)", "text": "Sea Monsters (TV series)\n\nSea Monsters is a 2003 BBC television trilogy which used computer-generated imagery to show past life in Earth's seas. In the U.S. it was known as Chased by Sea Monsters. It was made by Impossible Pictures, the creators of \"Walking with Dinosaurs\", \"Walking with Beasts\" and \"Walking with Monsters\". In the series, the British wildlife presenter Nigel Marven is shown traveling to seven past seas in the history of the Earth and scuba diving there, in order of dangerousness with the most dangerous last. He travels in a white sailboat or motorboat roughly 24 m (80 ft) long named 'The Ancient Mariner'. His time travelling device is not mentioned or shown, and the closest thing to it is his time map, showing the timeline of the seven deadliest seas and the creatures that lived at the time. He uses a scuba set with a fullface mask so he can talk underwater to produce the commentary. He performs some dives using a strong shark cage, which is spherical to make it harder for large sea creatures to bite it.\n\n\"Sea Monsters\" has never been released on DVD in the UK, but featured on the American \"Chased by Dinosaurs\" DVD and a similar Region 2 Dutch DVD. It was also available on Netflix in the UK and the United States, where it is referred to as Episode 2 of \"Chased By Dinosaurs: Three Walking with Dinosaurs Adventures.\"\n\nAs originally broadcast, the first episode had three segments and the second and third two each; a format later inherited by \"Walking with Monsters\"\n"}
{"id": "2646163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2646163", "title": "Self-inflicted caesarean section", "text": "Self-inflicted caesarean section\n\nA self-performed caesarean section is a form of self-surgery where a woman attempts to perform a caesarean section on herself.\n\nCases of self-inflicted caesarean section have been reported since the 18th and 19th century. While mostly deadly to either the mother, the child or both, there are at least five known documented successful cases.\n\nIn March 2000, Inés Ramírez Pérez, a Mexican woman from the state of Oaxaca, gained media attention after performing a Caesarean section on herself. Despite having no medical training, the operation was successful and both she and her baby survived.\n\nAt midnight, on 5 March 2000 – after 12 hours of continual pain, Ramírez sat down on a bench and drank three small glasses of hard liquor. She then used a kitchen knife to cut open her abdomen in a total of three attempts. Ramírez cut through her skin in a vertical line several centimeters to the right of her navel, starting near the bottom of the ribs and ending near the pubic area. (For comparison: a typical C-section incision is long, horizontal and well below the navel, the so-called \"Pfannenstiel incision\".) After operating on herself for an hour, she reached inside her uterus and pulled out her baby boy. She then severed the umbilical cord with a pair of scissors and became unconscious. She used clothes to bandage her wound after regaining consciousness, and sent one of her older sons to find help.\n\nSeveral hours later, the village health assistant and a second man found Ramírez conscious and alert, along with her live baby. He sewed her incision with an available needle and thread.\n\nRamírez was eventually taken to the local clinic, two and a half miles away in San Lorenzo Texmelucan, and then to the nearest hospital, eight hours away by car. Sixteen hours thereafter she underwent surgical repair of the incision site. On the seventh post-operative day, she underwent a second surgery to repair complications resulting from damage to her intestines incurred during her C-section. She was released from the hospital on the tenth day post-surgery, and went on to make a complete recovery.\n\nDescribing her experience, Ramírez said, \"I couldn’t stand the pain anymore. If my baby was going to die, then I decided I would have to die, too. But if he was going to grow up, I was going to see him grow up, and I was going to be with my child. I thought that God would save both our lives.\"\n\nThe case was written up in the March 2004 issue of the \"International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics\".\n\nShe is also believed to have been profoundly lucky in several ways: to have put herself in the position she chose, which put her uterus – rather than her intestines – against the abdominal wall under the incision site; to have not succumbed to infection from the large open wound in a non-sterile environment; to have not passed out from the pain part-way through, bled to death, or died from shock. She did say, afterward, that she didn't advise other women to follow her example.\n\nIn the science fiction film \"Prometheus\", by Ridley Scott, the character Elizabeth Shaw gives herself a caesarean section. The scene has been discussed, drawing parallels with the xenomorph birth scene in the original \"Alien\" 1979 movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "10239589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10239589", "title": "Sweetheart (crocodile)", "text": "Sweetheart (crocodile)\n\nSweetheart was the name given to a 5.1 metre saltwater crocodile responsible for a series of attacks on boats in Australia between 1974 and 1979. Sweetheart attacked outboard motors, dinghies, and fishing boats. In July 1979, Sweetheart was finally caught alive by a team from the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission, but drowned while being transported when he became tangled with a log. The crocodile's mounted body is now on permanent display at the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory.\n\nThe story of Sweetheart has been taken with considerable artistic licence by Greg McLean, director of the film \"Wolf Creek\", and made into a film titled \"Rogue\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1209759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1209759", "title": "Temporal difference learning", "text": "Temporal difference learning\n\nTemporal difference (TD) learning refers to a class of model-free reinforcement learning methods which learn by bootstrapping from the current estimate of the value function. These methods sample from the environment, like Monte Carlo methods, and perform updates based on current estimates, like dynamic programming methods.\n\nWhile Monte Carlo methods only adjust their estimates once the final outcome is known, TD methods adjust predictions to match later, more accurate, predictions about the future before the final outcome is known. This is a form of bootstrapping, as illustrated with the following example:\n\nTemporal difference methods are related to the temporal difference model of animal learning.\n\nThe tabular TD(0) method, one of the simplest TD methods, estimates the state value function of a finite-state Markov decision process (MDP) under a policy formula_1. Let formula_2 denote the state value function of the MDP with states formula_3, rewards formula_4 and discount rate formula_5 under the policy formula_6:\nformula_2 satisfies the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman Equation: \n\nso formula_10 is an unbiased estimate for formula_11. This observation motivates the following algorithm for estimating formula_2.\n\nThe algorithm starts by initializing a table formula_13 arbitrarily, with one value for each state of the MDP. A positive learning rate formula_14 is chosen.\n\nWe then repeatedly evaluate the policy formula_1, obtain a reward formula_16 and update the value function for the old state using the rule: \nwhere formula_18 and formula_19are the old and new states, respectively.\n\nThe value formula_20 is known as the TD target.\n\nTD-Lambda is a learning algorithm invented by Richard S. Sutton based on earlier work on temporal difference learning by Arthur Samuel. This algorithm was famously applied by Gerald Tesauro to create TD-Gammon, a program that learned to play the game of backgammon at the level of expert human players.\n\nThe lambda (formula_21) parameter refers to the trace decay parameter, with formula_22. Higher settings lead to longer lasting traces; that is, a larger proportion of credit from a reward can be given to more distant states and actions when formula_21 is higher, with formula_24 producing parallel learning to Monte Carlo RL algorithms.\n\nThe TD algorithm has also received attention in the field of neuroscience. Researchers discovered that the firing rate of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra (SNc) appear to mimic the error function in the algorithm. The error function reports back the difference between the estimated reward at any given state or time step and the actual reward received. The larger the error function, the larger the difference between the expected and actual reward. When this is paired with a stimulus that accurately reflects a future reward, the error can be used to associate the stimulus with the future reward.\n\nDopamine cells appear to behave in a similar manner. In one experiment measurements of dopamine cells were made while training a monkey to associate a stimulus with the reward of juice. Initially the dopamine cells increased firing rates when the monkey received juice, indicating a difference in expected and actual rewards. Over time this increase in firing back propagated to the earliest reliable stimulus for the reward. Once the monkey was fully trained, there was no increase in firing rate upon presentation of the predicted reward. Continually, the firing rate for the dopamine cells decreased below normal activation when the expected reward was not produced. This mimics closely how the error function in TD is used for reinforcement learning.\n\nThe relationship between the model and potential neurological function has produced research attempting to use TD to explain many aspects of behavioral research. It has also been used to study conditions such as schizophrenia or the consequences of pharmacological manipulations of dopamine on learning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6973466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6973466", "title": "Terje Aa", "text": "Terje Aa\n\nTerje Aa (born 16 March 1961) is a Norwegian bridge player, WBF World Life Master, and regular member of the Norwegian team since 1993. Teams on which he was a member have placed in the top three of the World Bridge Federation European and World Championships 11 times between 1984 and 2008.\n\nIn 1993, Aa debuted as the member of Norwegian national selection and won the Schiphol Invitational Teams in Netherlands and bronze medal in European Teams Championship in Menton, France. In the same year, they reached the final of Bermuda Bowl in Santiago de Chile, where they lost to the young Dutch team. In 1997, they again won the European bronze medal and lost to France in the Bermuda Bowl semifinals, held in Tunis, ending up third by defeating the United States for the bronze. The same team earned the European silver in the Tenerife in 2001 finishing behind Italy.\n\nAa works for the Norwegian Post Office. His regular partner between 1993 and 2006 was Glenn Grøtheim playing the \"Viking Precision\", a relay-based system\n\n"}
{"id": "2058987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058987", "title": "Thomas Noguchi", "text": "Thomas Noguchi\n\nNoguchi was born in Japan and graduated from Tokyo's Nippon Medical School in 1951 before interning at The University of Tokyo School of Medicine Hospital. Shortly thereafter he immigrated to the United States. He then served a second internship at Orange County General Hospital and a series of residencies at Loma Linda University School of Medicine, and Barlow Sanatorium in Los Angeles. He was appointed a deputy coroner for Los Angeles County in 1961.\n\nIn 1967, he became Chief Medical Examiner (CME) for the county, replacing his mentor Theodore Curphey. As CME, Noguchi came to public attention for a series of autopsies; which he performed or supervised on a range of celebrities and public figures that included Albert Dekker, Robert F. Kennedy, Sharon Tate, Janis Joplin, Inger Stevens, Gia Scala, David Janssen, William Holden, Natalie Wood, and John Belushi. His autopsy of Kennedy is significant for its conclusion that the fatal shot was fired into the back of Kennedy's head, behind the right ear, from an upward angle, and from a distance of no more than 0.5 to 3 inches (15–75 mm) away. Such a finding has given rise to conspiracy theories regarding the assassination, as no witnesses reported seeing the convicted assassin, Sirhan Sirhan, in a position to fire such a shot. Noguchi himself points out in his memoir \"Coroner\" that he has never officially ruled that Sirhan fired the fatal shot.\n\nHe developed a high profile as CME, and was often accused of speaking too freely to the media, particularly following the November 1981 deaths of William Holden and Natalie Wood, which, along with moonlighting and alleged mismanagement, led to his demotion from coroner to physician specialist in 1982. He was later appointed Chief of Pathology at the University of Southern California and then as Administrative Pathologist for Anatomic Pathology services at the USC Medical Center.\n\nNoguchi was appointed professor by both the University of Southern California and UCLA. He is a past president of the American National Association of Medical Examiners. In 1999 he was honored by the Emperor of Japan who awarded him the Order of the Sacred Treasure for his \"outstanding contributions to Japan in the area of forensic science\". He retired the same year.\n\n, Noguchi is the president of World Association for Medical Law (WAML), which is a medical body founded in 1967 to encourage the study of health law, legal medicine, and bioethics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "192926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192926", "title": "Vostok 2", "text": "Vostok 2\n\nVostok 2 (, \"Orient 2\" or \"East 2\") was a Soviet space mission which carried cosmonaut Gherman Titov into orbit for a full day on August 6, 1961 to study the effects of a more prolonged period of weightlessness on the human body. Titov orbited the Earth over 17 times, exceeding the single orbit of Yuri Gagarin on Vostok 1 − as well as the suborbital spaceflights of American astronauts Alan Shepard and Gus Grissom aboard their respective Mercury-Redstone 3 and 4 missions. Indeed, Titov's number of orbits and flight time would not be surpassed by an American astronaut until Gordon Cooper's Mercury-Atlas 9 spaceflight in May 1963.\n\nAfter the flight of Vostok 1, Sergei Korolev took a short vacation in Crimea where he began working out the flight plan for the next mission. There were considerable arguments over the duration of the mission as flight doctors argued for no more than three orbits. The flight of Korabl-Sputnik 2 nine months earlier had carried two dogs on a six orbit mission, during which the animals had experienced convulsions and thus all subsequent Vostok missions were limited to three orbits maximum. Although dogs and humans were very different physiologically, the doctors were worried about the risks posed on a longer flight. There was also the purely practical aspect of spacecraft recovery. If Vostok 2 flew three orbits, reentry and landing would take place in the wide open steppes of southern Russia, the landing site moving steadily further west with each orbit. Orbits 8-13 would drop the capsule into the Pacific Ocean, after which landing would again occur in Soviet territory, but in the remote, frozen wastes of Siberia. Thus, it was necessary to spend a full 24 hours in space before it would be once again possible to land in the prime recovery area in southern Russia. The three orbit limit thus would not only make landing easy, but minimize risks to the cosmonaut posed by prolonged weightlessness.\n\nKorolev argued that since it would still take an entire day for landing in southern Russia to be possible again, there was no reason not to go for it. Besides, he argued, missions of the future would inevitably require lengthy stays in space. The flight was targeted for somewhere between July 25 and August 5. To ensure safe radiation levels, balloons equipped with Geiger counters were flown aloft, in addition similar equipment would be carried on Vostok 2. Several enhancements were made to Vostok 2, including an improved TV transmission system and better climate control systems.\n\nLiftoff took place August 6 at 8:57 AM Moscow time and booster performance was almost flawless, placing the spacecraft into a 184x244 km orbit.\n\nThe flight was an almost complete success, marred only by a heater that had inadvertently been turned off prior to liftoff and that allowed the inside temperature to drop to , a bout of space sickness, and a troublesome re-entry when the reentry module failed to separate cleanly from its service module.\n\nUnlike Yuri Gagarin on Vostok 1, Titov took manual control of the spacecraft for a short while. Another change came when the Soviets admitted that Titov did not land with his spacecraft. Titov would claim in an interview that he ejected from his capsule as a test of an alternative landing system; it is now known that all Vostok program landings were performed this way.\n\nThe re-entry capsule was destroyed during development of the Voskhod spacecraft.\n\nAs of 2017, Titov remains the youngest person to reach space. He was a month short of 26 years old at launch.\n\n\nGherman Titov launched from Gagarin's Start at Baikonur Cosmodrome on 6 August 1961 at 06:00 UTC aboard the Vostok 2 space capsule. Radio personality Yuri Levitan interrupted Radio Moscow programming with an announcement of the flight at 07:45 UTC.\n\nNausea set in after Titov achieved free fall in orbit, causing him to vomit when he tried to eat one of his planned meals. Soviet space program officials suspected disturbance of Titov's vestibular system was to blame, leading them to begin early investigations into what is now known as space adaptation syndrome, or space sickness. Titov is believed to be the first spacefarer to experience the condition.\n\nTitov took manual control of the capsule's attitude for a time as he passed over Africa on his first orbit and would again at the end of the seventh orbit; the controls were reported to function well. Titov exchanged greetings with Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev as he passed over the Soviet Union at the end of his first orbit, replicating Gagarin's feat. During his flight the first manual photographs were taken from orbit, thus setting a record for modern space photography. He also was the first person to film the Earth using, for ten minutes, a professional quality Konvas-Avtomat movie camera.\n\nA camera aboard the capsule transmitted smiling pictures of Titov to the ground as he passed over Soviet territory on the fifth orbit. Titov settled down to sleep during the seventh orbit; he awoke over eight hours later, 37 minutes after the scheduled end of his sleep period. Sleep did not relieve Titov's serious discomfort; he still felt very ill after awaking. After 12 orbits Titov suddenly began to recover, and became \"completely functional and fully fit\".\n\nDetailed information about the radio frequencies used by the spacecraft were made public before Titov's flight; listening posts around the world picked up voice and telemetry signals from Vostok 2, allaying suspicions that the spaceflight might have been faked.\n\nAs on Vostok 1, the Vostok 2 service module failed to detach from the reentry module when commanded and reentry began with the former still attached; the conjoined modules gyrated violently until aerodynamic heating burned through the straps still holding them together. Titov ejected from the capsule as planned and parachuted separately to land at 0718 UTC on 7 August 1961, near Krasny Kut, Saratov Oblast.Just prior to ejecting, Titov turned his head to look at something and so got his face rammed into his helmet at ejection, giving himself a bloody nose.\n\nThe Vostok 2 landing site coordinates are , which is 11.5 km South of Krasny Kut, Saratovskaya oblast in the Russian Federation. At the roadside site are two monuments dedicated to the Vostok 2 mission. The larger one is a 9 meter tall, silver painted stone sculpture, that resembles a single bird's wing pointed skyward. The center of the wing has a series of looping openings, one atop the next, that resemble a row of feathers. To the right of the wing sculpture is a 2 meter high, silver painted square stone block, with a rounded corner on the front side. A portrait of Titov, wearing a space helmet, is on one side of the stone block, the other side contains red painted text commemorating the mission.\n\nIn 1964, the Vostok 2 capsule was reused as a ballast weight in a test of an experimental parachute system planned for the \"Voskhod\" capsule. The prototype malfunctioned, shattering Vostok 2 into tiny pieces.\n"}
{"id": "194321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194321", "title": "Vostok 6", "text": "Vostok 6\n\nVostok 6 (, \"Orient 6\" or \"East 6\") was the first human spaceflight to carry a woman, cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova, into space.\n\nThe spacecraft was launched on June 16, 1963. While Vostok 5 had been delayed by technical problems, Vostok 6's launch proceeded with no difficulties. Data collected during the mission provided better understanding of the female body's reaction to spaceflight. Like other cosmonauts on Vostok missions, Tereshkova maintained a flight log, took photographs, and manually oriented the spacecraft. Her photographs of the horizon from space were later used to identify aerosol layers within the atmosphere. The mission, a joint flight with Vostok 5, was originally conceived as being a joint mission with two Vostoks each carrying a female cosmonaut, but this changed as the Vostok program experienced cutbacks as a precursor to the retooling of the program into the Voskhod program. Vostok 6 was the last flight of a Vostok 3KA spacecraft.\n\nThe Soviet state television network broadcast live video of Tereshkova from a camera inside the capsule, and she conversed with Premier Nikita Khrushchev over the radio. Communications with ground controllers about her overall health were described in post-flight reports as \"evasive\", and later official accounts of the mission had somewhat condescending remarks about Tereshkova's overall in-flight performance.\nIn Tereshkova's account of the mission in her postflight debriefing, she mentioned having assorted body pains and difficulty with her helmet headset (also reported by Bykovsky on Vostok 5). She vomited while attempting to eat, although she attributed this to the taste of the food rather than her physical condition.\n\nAn official history of the Soviet space program published in 1973 described Tereshkova's physical condition and in-flight performance as \"udovletvoritelnoe\" (adequate) rather than \"otlichno\" (good or outstanding).\n\nIt was revealed in 2004 that an error in the control program made the spaceship ascend from orbit instead of descending. Tereshkova noticed the fault on the first day of the flight and reported it to spaceship designer Sergey Korolev. Flight controllers then provided Tereshkova with data to enter into the descent program. By request of Korolev, Tereshkova kept the problem secret. \"I kept silent, but Evgeny Vasilievich decided to make it public. So, I can easily talk about it now.\"\n\nThe Vostok 6 landing site coordinates are , 200 km West of Barnaul, Altai, in the Russian Federation and 7 km south of Baevo, and 650 km North East of Karagandy, Kazakhstan. At the site, in a small park at the roadside, is a statue of Tereshkova, with arms outstretched, at the top of a curved column.\n\nThe capsule is now on display at the RKK Energia Museum in Korolyov (near Moscow). From September 2015 it formed part of the content of the \"Cosmonauts\" exhibition at the Science Museum, London. The Exhibition featured many iconic objects from the Soviet space program.\n\nThis was the final Vostok flight.\n\n"}
{"id": "41397356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41397356", "title": "Worst-case scenario", "text": "Worst-case scenario\n\nA worst-case scenario is a concept in risk management wherein the planner, in planning for potential disasters, considers the most severe possible outcome that can reasonably be projected to occur in a given situation. Conceiving of worst-case scenarios is a common form of strategic planning, specifically scenario planning, to prepare for and minimize contingencies that could result in accidents, quality problems, or other issues.\n\nThe worst-case scenario is \"[o]ne of the most commonly used alternative scenarios\". A risk manager may request \"a conservative risk estimate representing a worst-case scenario\" in order to determine the latitude they may exercise in planning steps to reduce risks. Generally, a worst-case scenario \"is settled upon by agreeing that a given worst case is bad enough. However, it is important to recognize that no worst-case scenario is truly without potential nasty surprises\". In other words, \"[a] “worst-case scenario” is never the worst case\", both because situations may arise that no planner could reasonably foresee, and because a given worst-case scenario is likely to consider only contingencies expected to arise in connection with a particular disaster. The worst-case scenario devised by a seismologist might be a particularly bad earthquake, and the worst-case scenario devised by a meteorologist might be a particularly bad hurricane, but it is unlikely that either of them will devise a scenario where a particularly bad storm occurs at the same time as a particularly bad earthquake.\n\nThe definition of a worst-case scenario varies by the field to which it is being applied. For example, in environmental engineering\", \"[a] worst-case scenario is defined as the release of the largest quantity of a regulated substance from a single vessel or process line failure that results in the greatest distance to an endpoint\". In this field, \"[a]s in other fields, the worst-case scenario is a useful device when low probability events may result in a catastrophe that must be avoided even at great cost, but in most health risk assessments, a worst-case scenario is essentially a type of bounding estimate\". In computer science, the best, worst, and average case of a given algorithm express what the resource usage is at least, at most and on average, respectively. For many individuals, a worst case scenario is one that would result in their own death.\n\nA number of criticisms have been leveled against the use of worst-case scenarios. In some cases, a conceivable worst-case scenario within a field may be so far beyond the capacity of participants to deal with that it is not worth the effort to develop or explore such a scenario; where this is possible, it is \"important to evaluate whether the development of a worst-case scenario is reasonable and desirable\". Entities that rely on such scenarios in planning may be led to plan too conservatively to take advantage of the usual absence of such scenarios, and may waste resources preparing for highly unlikely contingencies. At the extreme, it has been argued that the use of worst-case scenarios in disaster preparedness and training causes people to become conditioned to set aside ethical concerns and to over-react to lesser disasters.\n\n"}
{"id": "52753893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52753893", "title": "Zhang Yinwu", "text": "Zhang Yinwu\n\nZhang Yinwu (); 1891 – May 27, 1949) was a Kuomintang educator and politician of the Republic of China. He was born in Baoding, Hebei. He was a graduate of the Baoding Military Academy. He was the 17th Republican mayor of Beijing. After the capture of Beijing (called Beiping at the time) by the forces of the Communist Party of China, he was arrested by the People's Liberation Army in February 1949 and jailed. He died 3 months later in prison.\n\n"}
