{"id": "38801649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38801649", "title": "Alan Fiske", "text": "Alan Fiske\n\nAlan Page Fiske (born 1947) is an American professor of anthropology at the University of California, Los Angeles, known for studying the nature of human relationships and cross-cultural variations between them.\n\nFiske was born in 1947. His father, Donald W. Fiske, was a professor of psychology at the University of Chicago. His sister, Susan Fiske, is a social psychologist and Eugene Higgins Professor of Psychology and Public Affairs at the Princeton University Department of Psychology.\n\nFiske earned a bachelor's degree (Cum Laude) in Social Relations from Harvard College in 1968. He went on to earn a master's degree in 1973 and a PhD in 1985, both from the University of Chicago, focusing on cross-cultural problems and human development.\n\nBetween earning degrees, Fiske worked as a director and consultant to the Peace Corps in Bangladesh and Upper Volta, and as consultant to USAID for the Central African Republic.\n\nFiske held various professorships at the University of Pennsylvania, UCSD, Swarthmore College, and Bryn Mawr College, before obtaining a full professorship at UCLA in 2002. There he is former director of the Center for Behavior, Evolution, and Culture, and of the Center for Culture, Brain, and Development. His areas of research interest include psychological anthropology, social relationships, and theories of violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "16983322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16983322", "title": "American Book Company (1890)", "text": "American Book Company (1890)\n\nThe American Book Company (ABC) was an educational book publisher in the United States that specialized in elementary school, secondary school and collegiate-level textbooks. It is best known for publishing the McGuffey Readers, which sold 120 million copies between 1836 and 1960.\n\nAmerican Book Company was formed in 1890 by the consolidation of Van Antwerp, Bragg and Co., A.S. Barnes & Co., D. Appleton and Co., and Ivison, Blakeman and Co. It was acquired by Litton Industries in 1967 and existed as a division of Litton Educational Publishing, Inc. until being sold to the International Thomson Organization in the late seventies. Thomson then sold its American Book Company K-12 assets to D. C. Heath and Company in 1981. The company was absorbed into D. C. Heath and ceased to exist as an imprint. Any remaining K-12 assets of the American Book Company are now owned by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company, which acquired D. C. Heath and Company in 1995.\n\nMany of the college level textbook rights of ABC/Litton were sold by International Thomson as well, to Van Nostrand Reinhold, though some remained under the Wadsworth imprint at Thomson, which is now Cengage Learning.\n\n"}
{"id": "2745564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2745564", "title": "Annie Walsh Memorial School", "text": "Annie Walsh Memorial School\n\nThe Annie Walsh Memorial School is an all-girls secondary school in Freetown, Sierra Leone. It was established in 1849 originally in Charlotte, a newly established village for recaptives. It is claimed to be the oldest girls school in Sub-Saharan Africa. Over the years, the school has consistently outperformed its peers in terms of academic achievement, making it the most prestigious secondary school for girls in Sierra Leone. The principal is Antoinnette Roberts; she has been the principal since 1995.\n\nAnnie Walsh Memorial School was named after an English girl whose dream was to become a missionary to Africa. Unfortunately Annie Walsh died in a tragic accident at the age of 20. Annie Walsh's last few days are described in 'Dear Annie: A Brief Memorial' published for private circulation and undated. On 19 January 1855 she returned from a week in Bath. On 23 January she went, with her father, to a meeting of the Irish Church Missions, despite having the symptoms of a cold. On 24 and 25 January she remained in bed, apparently because of the cold. On 27 January a doctor was called. The next day, Sunday, inflammation of the lungs was apparent. Leeches were applied and again on Monday. On that Monday morning she spoke with her parents - 'that conversation had all the air of a final interview between friends that parting for longish voyage'. She died at 4.30 a.m. on Wednesday, 31 January, 1855. Her parents provided substantial funding for the school when it was started, which ultimately became the Annie Walsh Memorial School.\n\n\nThe school is divided into six houses, named after the first principals.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34429581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34429581", "title": "Applied Science Private University", "text": "Applied Science Private University\n\nApplied Science University (Arabic: جامعة العلوم التطبيقية الخاصة) is a private university located in the Shafa Badran suburb of Amman, in Jordan. It was established in 1991 as the largest private university in Jordan in terms of campus area and number of students' enrollment.\nIt is ranked among top universities in Jordan, its English programs in engineering and physical sciences are considered one of the best in Jordan and the Middle East.The university's basketball team plays in the Jordanian premium league, It is the only university that has an athletic team that plays in a premium league in Jordan. \nIn the academic year 2009/2010 there were 7866 students of whom 2991 (38%) were international students.\n\nIt has a variety of ways to hold vehicles within the campus, with a huge parking lot and an organized place to charge electric cars.\n\nThe campus includes many faculties that are embedded with different majors, that are offered in both English and Arabic curriculum.\n"}
{"id": "53013045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53013045", "title": "Barbara Adam", "text": "Barbara Adam\n\nBarbara E. Adam, (born 3 May 1945) is a retired British sociologist and academic. She specialises in social theory particularity in reference to time. From 1988 to her retirement in 2011, she lectured at Cardiff University; she was appointed Professor of Sociology in 1999. She was the founding editor of the academic journal \"Time & Society\".\n\nIn 1991, she was awarded the Philip Abrams Memorial Prize by the British Sociological Association for her monograph \"Time and Social Theory\". In 1995, she was awarded the J T Fraser Prize by the International Society for the Study of Time for her monograph \"Timewatch: The Social Analysis of Time\". In 2009, she was elected an Academician of the Academy of Social Sciences (AcSS); in 2014, Academicians were retitled Fellows (FAcSS) to bring the Academy of Social Sciences inline with other British learned societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "853723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853723", "title": "Betty Edwards", "text": "Betty Edwards\n\nBetty Edwards (born 1926 in San Francisco, California) is an American art teacher and author, best known for her 1979 book, \"Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain\" (, in its 4th edition). She taught and did research at the California State University, Long Beach until she retired in the late 1990s. While there, she founded the Center for the Educational Applications of Brain Hemisphere Research.\n\nShe received a Bachelor's in Art from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA, 1947), a Master's of Art from California State University, Northridge, and a Doctorate in Art, Education, and Psychology from UCLA (1976).\n\n\"Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain\" has remained the dominant book on its subject, used as a standard text in many art schools, and has been translated and published in many foreign languages, including French, Spanish, German, Polish, Hungarian Chinese and Japanese. Her company, Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain, develops special drawing tools, materials, and videos to help individuals learn to draw.\n\nAn artist and painter, she taught at high school level in the Los Angeles public school district (Venice High School), then at community college, and from 1978 until her retirement in 1991, in the Art Department at California State University, Long Beach. All of her teaching experience has been in art: drawing, painting, art history, art-teacher training, and color theory. In addition to teaching drawing workshops around the world, she has also done business consulting with major national and international corporations to enhance creative problem solving.\n\nEdwards's method of drawing and teaching was revolutionary when she published it in 1979. It received an immediate positive response, and is now widely accepted by artists, teachers, and others around the world. Underlying the method is the notion that the brain has two ways of perceiving and processing reality – one verbal and analytic, the other visual and perceptual. Edwards' method advocates suppressing the former in favor of the latter. It focuses on disregarding preconceived notions of what the drawn object should look like, and on individually \"seeing\". Drawing, says Edwards, has five component skills of perception and drawing:\n\nThen there are two additional skills, numbers 6 and 7:\n\nEdwards's early work was based in part on her understanding of neuroscience, especially the cerebral hemisphere research which suggested that the two hemispheres of the brain have different functions. To avoid the so-called \"location controversy\" (how the two major cognitive functions are distributed in the individual brain depending on handedness and other factors), she termed the modes \"L-mode\" and \"R-mode.\" These designations appeared in the original 1979 edition of \"Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain.\" She described L-mode as basically a verbal, analytic, sequential mode of thinking, and R-mode as basically visual, perceptual, and global.\n\nDietrich and Kanso did a meta-review of 72 experiments and found no conclusive support for the hemisphere laterality of creativity: \n\nEdwards' major publications include:\n\n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "42688381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42688381", "title": "Capstone course", "text": "Capstone course\n\nA capstone course, also known as capstone unit or a senior thesis or senior seminar serves as the culminating and usually integrative experience of an educational program. A capstone course, module, project, subject, or unit in the higher education context may also be referred to as a capstone experience, senior seminar (in the U.S.), or final year project or dissertation (more common in the U.K.).\n\nThe term derives from the final decorative coping or \"cap-stone\" used to complete a building or monument. In higher education, the term has been in common use in the USA since the mid-twentieth century, although there is evidence that it was in use as early as the late 1800s. It has gradually been gaining currency in other countries, particularly where attention has focused on student outcomes and employability in undergraduate studies. National grant projects in Australia and the U.K. have further raised the profile of the capstone experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "4097096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4097096", "title": "Captivity (animal)", "text": "Captivity (animal)\n\nAnimals that are held by humans and prevented from escaping are said to be in captivity. The term is usually applied to wild animals that are held in confinement, but may also be used generally to describe the keeping of domesticated animals such as livestock or pets. This may include, for example, animals in farms, private homes, zoos and laboratories. Animal captivity may be categorized according to the particular motives, objectives and conditions of the confinement.\n\nThroughout history not only domestic animals as pets and livestock were kept in captivity and under human care, but also wild animals. Some were failed domestication attempts. Also, in past times, primarily the wealthy, aristocrats and kings collected wild animals for various reasons. Contrary to domestication, the ferociousness and natural behaviour of the wild animals were preserved and exhibited. Today's zoos claim other reasons for keeping animals under human care: conservation, education and science.\n\nCaptive animals, especially those not domesticated, sometimes develop abnormal behaviours.\n\nOne type of abnormal behaviour is \"stereotypical behaviors\", i.e. repetitive and apparently purposeless motor behaviors. Examples of stereotypical behaviours include pacing, self-injury, route tracing and excessive self-grooming. These behaviors are associated with stress and lack of stimulation. Many who keep animals in captivity attempt to prevent or decrease stereotypical behavior by introducing stimuli, a process known as environmental enrichment.\n\nA type of abnormal behavior shown in captive animals is self-injurious behavior (SIB). Self-injurious behavior indicates any activity that involves biting, scratching, hitting, hair plucking, or eye poke that may result in injuring oneself. Although its reported incidence is low, self-injurious behavior is observed across a range of primate species, especially when they experience social isolation in infancy. Self-bite involves biting one’s own body—typically the arms, legs, shoulders, or genitals. Threat bite involves biting one’s own body—typically the hand, wrist, or forearm—while staring at the observer, conspecific, or mirror in a threatening manner. Self-hit involves striking oneself on any part of the body. Eye poking is a behavior (widely observed in primates) that presses the knuckle or finger into the orbital space above the eye socket. Hair plucking is a jerking motion applied to one’s own hair with hands or teeth, resulting in its excessive removal.\n\nThe proximal causes of self-injurious behavior have been widely studied in captive primates; either social or nonsocial factors can trigger this type of behavior. Social factors include changes in group composition, stress, separation from the group, approaches by or aggression from members of other groups, conspecific male individuals nearby, separation from females, and removal from the group. Social isolation, particularly disruptions of early mother-rearing experiences, is an important risk factor. Studies have suggested that, although mother-reared rhesus macaques still exhibit some self-injurious behaviors, nursery-reared rhesus macaques are much more likely to self-abuse than mother-reared ones. Nonsocial factors include the presence of a small cut, a wound or irritant, cold weather, human contact, and frequent zoo visitors. For example, a study has shown that zoo visitor density positively correlates with the number of gorillas banging on the barrier, and that low zoo visitor density caused gorillas to behave in a more relaxed way. Captive animals often cannot escape the attention and disruption caused by the general public, and the stress resulting from this lack of environmental control may lead to an increased rate of self-injurious behaviors.\n\nOn top of self inflicted harm, some animals exhibit harm towards others and internal psychological harm. This can be exhibited in various forma, such as Orca whales, which never have killed a human in the wild, killing two of its own trainers. Psychological tics can also be identified, ranging from swaying to head bobbing to pacing. Continuous inbreeding is also bringing out mental disadvantages, such as crossed eyes and infertility.\n\nStudies suggest that many abnormal captive behaviors, including self-injurious behavior, can be successfully treated by pair housing. Pair housing provides a previously single-housed animal with a same-sex social partner; this method is especially effective with primates, which are widely known to be social animals. Social companionship provided by pair housing encourages social interaction, thus reducing abnormal and anxiety-related behavior in captive animals as well as increasing their locomotion.\n\nAnimal husbandry\nPet keeping\n\nAnimal welfare \n\nWild animal keeping\n\n"}
{"id": "32515877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32515877", "title": "Chinese Chemistry Olympiad", "text": "Chinese Chemistry Olympiad\n\nChinese Chemistry Olympiad () is an annual academic competition held by Chinese Chemical Society. CAS changed its official Chinese name in February 2014, though its English translation remains the same.\n\nThe first CChO was held in 1984, 16 years after IChO. The event has been held every year since then. China has selected excellent high school students to take part in IChO through the competition since 1987.\n\n\nIt is considered to be the most difficult Chemistry exam throughout the world, the difficulty of Final round is much harder than IChO. The difficulty of the preliminary round is often enough to surpass IChO, also. Its problems are often beyond the abilities of an overwhelming majority of undergraduates. (As a consequence, IChO problems are regarded as \"beginners' exercises\" among those Chinese students.)\n"}
{"id": "39762718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39762718", "title": "Clodomir Santos de Morais", "text": "Clodomir Santos de Morais\n\nClodomir Santos de Morais, PhD (30 September 1928 – 25 March 2016), was a Brazilian sociologist who originated the Organization Workshop (OW) and the associated Activity-based Large Group Capacitation Method (LGCM).\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s de Morais worked as a trade unionist and a journalist, becoming a member of the Pernambuco State Assembly and co-founder of the Ligas Camponêsas (Peasant Leagues). After the 1964 coup he was forced into exile, first in Chile, and, as ILO Regional Advisor on Agrarian Reform for Central America, he subsequently worked as Agrarian Reform consultant in Latin America, Portugal and Africa.\n\nAfter the end of military rule de Morais returned to Brazil in 1988, answering a call from the University of Brasilia to help in the 'hidden civil war' of unemployment.\n\nHe recently returned to his hometown in Bahía State.\n\nDe Morais (occasionally spelled Moraes) was born in Santa Maria da Vitória, Bahía State, Brazil. After elementary school and a short apprenticeship as tailor there, he moved, barely 15, to São Paulo where, to pay for his studies, he played the saxofone in a jazz band and clarinet in a symphonic orchestra, before becoming a conveyor belt operator at the São Paulo Ford plant making it to line supervisor after two years. While finishing his Secondary he also worked as part-time journalist. It was while working at Ford that he became involved in trade unionism and political activism along with the painter Luis Enjorras Ventura, the educator Dario Lorenzo, the art critic Radha Abramo as well as the sociologist Fernando Henrique Cardoso (FHC), who later was to become president of the Republic.\n\nIn 1950, aged 22, he moved to the Bahía State capital Salvador where he founded the weekly \"Critica\", the only opposition paper to the then governor . In 1951 he moved to Recife where, while studying law at the Federal University of Pernambuco, he worked as Associated Press reporter on several local dailies such as the Jornal do Comercio and for Radio Clube and Radio Olinda. Together with , who became their president, he was co-founder of the Nordeste Peasant League movement in Pernambuco. The insights which gave rise to what was eventually to become the Organization Workshop were the unanticipated outcome of a clandestine meeting held by a large group of Peasant League middle managers in an ordinary townhouse, in Recife in 1954, to study Brazilian Agrarian Law, and which Clodomir de Morais attended. An evaluation conducted six months after that meeting found that participants had made remarkable contributions to their home communities, in some cases in marked contrast to previous behavior. Rather than improved knowledge of agrarian law (most of which had been forgotten), they had developed strong organizational skills. de Morais attributed this unexpected outcome to the fact that \"the cramped conditions of the house, combined with the need for secrecy so as not to arouse the suspicion of the police, ... had imposed on the group a strict organizational discipline in terms of division and synchronization of all the tasks needed for such an event\". This insight led Moraes to think about practical exercises where a shared resource base, activity, and the need for analytical thought would stimulate organizational consciousness. From the early 1960s onwards de Morais staged workshops of an experimental character among the Pernambuco Peasant Leagues.\n\nIn 1955 de Morais was elected delegate to the Pernambuco Federal Assembly where he was instrumental in getting approval for the creation of the . about which he quipped \"I am hopeless with money, yet am responsible for one of the big banks in the country\". The military coup d'état of 1 April 1964 overthrew the João Goulart government. Left-wing politicians and activists were arrested. Paulo Freire recounts that de Morais had already been imprisoned and tortured – he, and his then wife – well before the coup (1962), \"by the Police of Carlos Lacerda, in Rio de Janeiro\", \"because of his political activities\" which meant that, including 1964 post-Coup, he spent \"a total of two years in prison\". Paulo Freire himself was arrested at the time of the coup and spent some time with his friend de Morais in the same tiny cell in the Olinda prison. Among the many incriminating counts the Military held against de Morais (he ranked an honorary 12th on the Junta's list of the 100 troublemakers who had their civil rights suspended for 10 years) were his and the Peasant League's Cuban sympathies, e.g. the hospitality he gave in his house, in 1961, to a visiting Cuban Central Committee member. During his captivity Clodomir, always a raconteur, wrote a series of stories from \"deep Brazil\". At a much later stage in life, de Morais would reminisce about those days of liberating struggle. de Morais was forced into exile for 15 years and was granted asylum at the Chilean Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nWhile in Chile, Clodomir specialized in cultural anthropology at University of Chile, and in Agrarian Reform at the Agrarian Reform Capacitation and Research Institute (ICIRA), after which he was appointed ILO Regional Advisor on Agrarian Reform for Central America.\nIn 1968, as consultant for the National Agrarian Institute (INA) of Honduras, he set up a \"Centre\" OW at the Guanchias Cooperative in the course of which the construction of the Centre itself became an integral part of that OW. The \"Centre\" OW – (and, later on, the \"Course\" and \"Enterprise\" OW) – was a variation on the main \"Field\" OW theme. The latter is always open to local large group participation, \"regardless of age, sex, color, religion or whatever\", and lasts one month. The former, which may last three months or more, has participants, OW fashion, entirely in charge of internal organization and management, and is structured around the formation of cadres and (future) OW Directors and Assistants (known as APIs). The inspiration for these \"boarding\" type OWs came from a CEPAL-led course for international economic development experts which Clodomir attended during his studies in Santiago (Chile) in 1965. It was to Guanchias that development and agrarian reform agencies would send their recruits for initiation into the OW.\n\nIn 1969 he directed a large \"Centre\" OW in Panamá in the context of Omar Torrijos' \"Mil Jovenes\" (Thousand Youths) Operation which sent out 1,000 young Panamanians to reproduce the OW in support of the government's agrarian reform. 280 new enterprises resulted, grouped under the Panamanian CONAC (National Confederation of Campesino Land Settlements) which subsequently organized other OW learning events nationally.\nIn 1970 (until 1973) de Morais, on account of the ILO, moved to Costa Rica where a new Land Settlement Policy had just come in operation. His conferences at the University of Costa Rica and the Universidad Nacional aroused a keen interest. At the behest of T. Quirós, president of the Institute for Lands and Colonization (ITCO), an ILO-funded Centre OW was arranged in Bataán. The new cadres and OW directors formed there were responsible, in 1973 alone, for 80 new pre-cooperative groups and 15 new enterprises. Barrantes’ 1998 book \"Coopesilencio: 25 years on\" traces the story of one of the many long-term surviving cooperative enterprises hailing back to those groundbreaking years.\n\nAfter having spent some time as visiting scholar at the University of Wisconsin, US, de Morais was again in Honduras from 1973 until 1976 as FAO consultant in charge of the PROCCARA Program (Campesino Capacitation Program for Agrarian Reform), which was to become the blueprint for the \"Honduran Model\", the application of the OW on a countrywide basis. in which 27,000 Hondurans and other nationals, mainly campesinos but also students and public sector workers, participated in more than 200 OWs. This led to the creation of 1,053 new enterprises, some of the bigger ones, such as the palm oil growing and processing plants Hondupalma, Salama and Coapalma still operating today.\n\nWhen his Honduras contract came to an end in 1976, de Morais, at the invitation of the Centre for Ecology and Sustainable Development (CECODES) took charge of the FAO/UNDP-funded (Mex74/006) Integrated Rural Development Program for Humid Tropics (PRODERITH) project in Mexico in 1977-78. PRODERITH ran various OWs in San Luis Potosí, Chiapas and Tabasco. In 1985 de Morais, then visiting professor in East Germany, returned to Mexico for the official signing of a new tranche of World Bank funding for PRODERITH projects. This was the start of a long OW presence in Mexico, from the \"Enterprise\" OW with the Huatusco, Veracruz coffee growers in the 90s, the Tabasco OWs in the noughties up to the recent Mexico City OW-based large scale \"¡Que Buena Puntada!\" sewing cooperatives led by Verónica Viloria in 2007-2012 Mexico City.\n\nIn Portugal, the Carnation Revolution and the subsequent 1976 free elections had brought the Salazar/Caetano corporatist regime in Portugal to an end. The new Soares government set up INSCOOP, or the 'Antonio Sergio Institute for the Cooperative Sector', tasked with instilling organizational and management skills in the profileration of 3,800-plus post-revolution cooperative enterprises. de Morais, then in Mexico, was asked to take charge, as ILO consultant, of the ILO/SIDA/UNDP-funded Cooperative Development POR/ILO/UNDP/007 Project. In 1979 de Morais ran a \"Course\" OW lasting 5 months for a group 50 Portuguese TDE (Economic Development Expert) candidates with higher levels of education, with an additional ten candidates from Africa, Guatemala and Brazil (de Morais was still banned in his home country). These TDEs were to become the backbone of the first European national SIPGEI (Social Participation System for the Identification of Job and Income Generation Projects). Eventually a \"6,000-strong army of experts at grassroots, middle and higher-ranking levels, who had graduated from the massive capacitation programs realized by INSCOOP\", would be formed. Correia notes that it was by means of this capacitation program that the ground was prepared for Portugal's imminent entry into the European Community.\n\nShortly after the Portugal assignment came Clodomir's transfer to Nicaragua at the behest of the new Sandinista government, which had requested him to set up a ‘SIPGER’ (Job Creation System), identical to the national PROCCARA project he previously had run in Honduras, in this case on account of the Nicaraguan ILO/INRA-sponsored COPERA (Capacitation Project for the Organization of Producers and Job Creation) Program. de Morais ran some initial pilot OWs in Nicaragua until, in December 1980, the Sandinista government caught cold feet about going national.\n\nThe further spread of the OW in the 1980s was due partly to de Morais visiting other Latin American countries where he gave talks and lectures and attended seminars at a number of universities, but mainly due to the fact that Honduras in general and the Honduran Guanchias center in particular had become a magnet for field and middle management personnel and members of the campesino membership enterprises from other Latin American countries as well as from the Caribbean. They were sponsored to participate in the Honduran workshops by the Inter American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA) and by the Foundation for Applied Capacitation and Research in Agrarian Reform (CIARA). Those participants \"reproduced the same type of experiments in Panama, Costa Rica, Venezuela, Mexico, Brazil, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Colombia, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Dominica and Belize. In several of them, the Netherlands' Hivos and the Honduran Institute for Rural Development (IDHER) played a very important role\". Thus, for example, from 1979 onwards, one hundred OWs were organized in Colombia, resulting in 400 job-generating enterprises. Sobrado points out that \"the example, the Honduran Oscar Leiva and the Chilean Iván Labra\", together with de Morais himself, pioneered the OW in Venezuela. Subsequent to the 1980 CIARA-sponsored Conference on the OW in Caracas, 96 new OW Directors organized 286 workshops in which 11,440 Venezuelans participated.\n\nIn 1984 and 1985 de Morais was active in Geneva (Switzerland), Africa and Germany: The ILO had asked him to set up a Course series in Geneva for key African trade union and government personnel about to fill the many posts left vacant by the departed colonial powers. However, before the course could be started up, many had already been called back by their governments and given important positions. This left de Morais with no option but to go to Africa himself: he ran 'in situ' course OWs successively in Guinea Bissau, Angola, Mozambique and São Tomé and Príncipe.\n\nIn 1986, Ian Cherrett, then Hivos representative for southern Africa, and Cephas Muropa, with the support of Glen Forest Training Centre (Harare, Zim.) ran the very first OW in anglophone southern Africa at the Rujeko Cooperative Makoni Makoni District (Zim.). Not without considerable difficulties, however. That was the moment when Hivos, through Cherrett, invited the Social Psychologists Isabel and Iván Labra, with long, hands-on experience of running workshops in Latin America, to come to Zimbabwe. The magazine \"Workteam\" spread further knowledge about the OW to a wider English-speaking public in Africa. Workteam subsequently reported on workshops which took place in Botswana (with the support of CORDE), Zimbabwe, South Africa, Namibia and the Caribbean.\nde Morais became visiting professor at the Humboldt University of Berlin in 1986, and at the University of Rostock (GDR) where he was awarded a doctorate in Sociology in 1987.\n\nCivilian rule was restored in Brazil with the coming to power of president José Sarney, but Brazil had to wait until 1989 for the first democratic elections since the 1964 coup. In 1988 Cristovam Buarque, then Vice Chancellor of the University of Brasilia, invited Clodomir, then still in Rostock, to Brasilia to set up the Institute for Technical Support to Third World Countries (IATTERMUND) to tackle one of the country’s gravest problems, the 'hidden civil war of unemployment'.\nThe first request for OWs in Brazil came from the 30 self-managing Landless Workers' Movement (MST) cooperatives which subsequently changed their slogan from \"Invade! Occupy!\" to \"Invade! Occupy! Produce!\".\nSoon to follow the MST lead was the POLONOROESTE project, jointly funded by the Brazilian Ministry of National Integration, FAO and World Bank.\n\nThe Supervisory Development Authority for Amazônia (SUDAM) (1996–2002) reports that, with IATTERMUND's ‘APRENDER-FAZENDO’ (Learn by doing) methodology, the POLONOROESTE program in 1992–3 ran OWs in São Paulo, Paraiba and Alagoas. It ran a pilot project in 1996 in Tocantins followed by a full program of 59 Field OWs, two Course OWs and one Course for future OW Directors in Pará, Amapá, Amazonia, Acre and in the Municipality of Belém in which 20,059 persons participated, resulting in 696 new Enterprises yielding 5,596 new jobs. Correia estimates that, based on IATTERMUND and different state, municipality, as well as MST sources which she researched, in the decade from 1988 to 1998, \"around 100,000 people participated in various OW events in Brazil\". From 1996 to 1998 22,000 people participated in 'PAE' (Self Employment Program - under the banner \"\"More than a job: a Future\") in the heavily urbanized state of São Paulo resulting in 711 new enterprises, including People's Banks (\"Bancos do Povo\"\") The OW reached its apogee when, in 2000-2 alone, under the national 'PRONAGER', 110,946 people participated in 282 OWs. In many of these, especially Centre and Course OW-type of events, de Morais himself was always personally involved as coordinator and/or Course Director. He did not limit himself to Brazil and personally directed the 3-month (September–December 2000) national PRONACAMPO Course OW for around 1,000 Guatemalan OW technicians, directors and assistants in Guatemala City.\n\nAfter the Workers' Party/PT electoral victory in 2003, large regional and national-scale OW 'PRONAGER' programs such as those that took place under the previous Fernando Henrique Cardoso's Brazilian Social Democracy Party dwindled both in size and in number. From then on, OWs in Brazil continue to be run on a more local(ized) basis, such as the Rondonia OWs in 2002. From September 2012 to January 2013 de Morais directed the Guajará Mirim Course OW.\n\nIn the meantime region-wide OW programs and government-sponsored OW events have taken on a life on their own, especially in the last decade, in Costa Rica and South Africa.\n\nde Morais was visiting Professor at the University of Brasilia (1988), the Federal University of Rondônia/UNIR (Amazonia)(2003–9), the Chapingo Autonomous University (Mexico) (2000–2002) and the Autonomous University of Honduras (2006–8).\n\nHe recently (2013) returned to his hometown in Bahía State where he died on 25 March 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19630357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19630357", "title": "Cornelius L. Reid", "text": "Cornelius L. Reid\n\nCornelius Lawrence Reid (Jersey City, NJ, February 7, 1911 - New York City, NY, February 3, 2008), was a well-known vocal pedagogue in New York City, specialist in the bel canto technique, and author of books on bel canto.\n\nChildhood\n\nAs a boy of nine Reid became a chorister in the choir of Trinity Church, New York. This time of regular singing in a good choir at a young age had a profound influence on him: \"Retrospectively, one of the great advantages of the training given the choirboys of Trinity Church at that time was that the technique of tone production was never a matter for discussion. To the contrary, we were simply encouraged to sing musically and to pronounce the words distinctly. Singing itself was the object of study, not the mechanics of singing. Looking back over the many decades I have been teaching singing, this has been a continuing emphasis, the purpose being to communicate through the act of singing itself.\"\n\nVocal fatigue\n\nWhen his voice changed from soprano to baritone, he had voice lessons with various teachers in New York, including the vocal scientist Dr. Douglas Stanley for whom he was an assistant from 1934 to 1937. Through vocal strain brought on by confusing and contradictory voice training, he was forced to abandon a career in singing. He began to question the teaching methods being used and this induced him to develop his own ideas on functional vocal training, which, while completely based on earlier Italian methods, were combined with insights afforded by modern science. \"...I spent hours at the New York Public Library researching books on vocal pedagogy. I had been so outraged because of the incompetence of the teaching I had experienced and witnessed that I was determined to search for better answers. I had come to realize that my vocal situation was not unique in that many promising young singers had been victimized. Indeed it appeared to be the rule rather than the exception.\" Dr. Stephen F. Austin also supports the researching of earlier books on bel canto: \"...there are wonderful sources that can help us get back on track. Tosi's \"Observations on the Florid Song\", Mancini's \"Practical Reflections on the Art of Singing\" are two great places to start. At first you may find the lack of detail frustrating. Specific exercises are rare, but the principles are stated clearly, and therein lies their greatest worth. These early writings lay the foundation for the work of C. Reid. He didn't invent the two-register theory, but he certainly rediscovered it and has made it available and useful. There are many valuable resources that every voice teacher should know: the writings of the Lampertis, García, Stockhausen, and of course, Cornelius Reid.\"\n\nResearch and teaching\n\nIn the 1940s Cornelius Reid was a pioneer in the research into the writings of singers and teachers (17th to 19th century) on early vocal techniques. This led him to write seven books and many articles on singing and bel canto. He taught voice in New York City for almost seventy five years, teaching until shortly before his 97th birthday. Many of his students have become well-known singers and voice teachers. He was invited to give many master classes in North America, Europe, as well as in Japan and Australia. His teaching has had influence on the teaching of singing in North America, Europe and Asia. Several cities in Germany offered 1- and 2-week master classes with him for up to eight years. His influence in Germany can easily be seen in the German version of Wikipedia: see the article: \"Gesangsregister\".\n\nCriticism\n\nReid and others who have written about bel canto in the modern period, have inevitably been going against the mainstream and thus have always been open to criticism. Pedro de Alcantara, an Alexander teacher, supports both Reid as well as Husler/Rodd-Marling, who published \"Singing: The Physical Nature of the Vocal Organ\" in 1965: \"The free-thinking Reid and the collaborating duo of Frederick Husler and Yvonne Rodd-Marling have put forth watertight arguments for the correct relationship of cause and effect as regards breathing and singing. Their books have proved highly controversial, yet their detractors, rather than disproving the points made by their writers, have resorted to \"ad hominem\" attacks such as 'He is crazy.' Alexander was fond of saying that 'it doesn't alter a fact because you can't feel it'. We can expand the dictum to say that it does not alter a fact because you cannot understand it, nor because you can not accept it.\" When Reid's first three books were published as a Trilogy in 1975, Richard Dyer-Bennet wrote: \"Today's world, in all its aspects, seems to vacillate between mechanistic and mystical approaches to problems. As always, the true path lies somewhere between the extremes, and Reid indicates the path. Due partly to misinterpretation and partly simply to neglect, contemporary teachers have deserted the old, productive principles of \"bel canto\". As author and teacher, Reid has now firmly re-established these principles and, with added insights of his own, leaves us with no excuse to again lose our way.\"\n\nWritings on Bel canto\n\nReid's first book \"Bel Canto: Principles and Practices\" came out in 1950 and was followed by \"The Free Voice: A Guide to Natural Singing\" in 1965 and \"Voice: Psyche and Soma\", 1975. These were later reprinted by the Joseph Patelson Music House in 1975 as a Trilogy. In 1977 he was awarded a grant by the Ford Foundation to compile \"A Dictionary of Vocal Terminology - An Analysis\" - the only one of its kind. Several more books came out in the 1990s including \"Essays on the Nature of Singing\" and a translation of \"Vocal Exercises: Their Purpose and Dynamics\" was published in Germany. For his 90th birthday a festschrift \"The Modern Singing Master: Essays in Honor of Cornelius L. Reid\" was published. Debra Greschner wrote in the \"Journal of Singing\": \"The annals of voice pedagogy are filled with references to singing masters of the bel canto era. Editors Ariel Bybee and James E. Ford, in their choice of title for this compendium, simultaneously acknowledge that pedagogical tradition and pay homage to the teacher they believe follows in that lineage: Cornelius L. Reid. Reid's publications are well known to any serious student of voice pedagogy.\" Several of his books have also been translated into German, Japanese and Korean.\n\nReid's teachings were based on the books of famous voice teachers of the 17th to the 19th centuries. They included Giulio Caccini, Pier Francesco Tosi, Giovanni Battista Mancini, Domenico Corri, Francesco Lamperti, Giovanni Battista Lamperti, Manuel Patricio Rodríguez García, Isaac Nathan and Julius Stockhausen.\n\nIn the festschrift Stephen F. Austin honors Cornelius Reid and those that have studied with him: \"Only rarely does one find a voice teacher employing a method in which the registers of the voice are being used in the way that made singing in the bel canto era the greatest that mankind has known. If such a teacher is discovered, it is most likely that he or she has been influenced, directly or indirectly, by one man. Cornelius Reid has made a singular contribution to vocal pedagogy because he has kept the ancient traditions of teaching as established and tested in the fire of the eighteenth-century opera houses alive in the twentieth century—and now the twenty-first century.\"\n\nA summary of Reid's pedagogy appeared in the \"Journal of Singing\": \"Reid's approach rests upon the two register theory and a belief that the only factors that can exert voluntary control upon the involuntary laryngeal muscles are pitch, intensity and vowel. Exercises employing various combinations of these three controls, in combination with the use of \"functional listening\"—a careful analysis of the registrational balances—will result in a free technique.\"\n\n\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "267487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267487", "title": "Discipline", "text": "Discipline\n\nDiscipline is action or inaction that is regulated to be in accordance (or to achieve accord) with a particular system of governance. Discipline is commonly applied to regulating human and animal behavior, and furthermore, it is applied to each activity-branch in all branches of organized activity, knowledge, and other fields of study and observation. Discipline can be a set of expectations that are required by any governing entity including the self, groups, classes, fields, industries, or societies.\n\nChildren being educated to use public litter bins is a form of disciplinary education that is expected by some societies. If a child cannot use a litter bin the lack of discipline can result in a reaction from observant people in public. Many people observe a form of disciplinary effort in their daily lives. Discipline has a very important role in student's life.\nDiscipline is a moral obligation among many groups of people. Disciplined behavior is required by some laws and other legal obligations. Commercial entities can also put in place strict disciplinary requirements for the length of the commercial agreement. Airlines enforce strict disciplinary and conduct rules upon flight passengers. \n\nIn the military, discipline regards the efforts made by superiors to punish the serviceperson. In academia, discipline can also regard the educators' responses and efforts that are designed to punish the student(s). Not only in military, in every parts of life of an individual discipline plays the most important role. Discipline shows the actual face of an individual. In animal husbandry and training, the animals may be disciplined to perform specific task and activities without errors. Additionally, animals can discipline their young through numerous methods; including nips, bites, and grips.\n\nDisciplinarians have been involved in many societies throughout history. The Victorian era resulted in the popular use of disciplinarian governance over children. Edward VIII had a disciplinarian father, and the English had modelled the royal families during this era. Edward's grandmother was Queen Victoria who had championed the role of the family unit during her reign. A disciplinarian will enforce a stricter set of rules that are aimed at developing children according to theories of order and discipline. Disciplinarians have also been linked to child abuse in numerous cases and biographies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10867178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10867178", "title": "Douglas Hodgkin", "text": "Douglas Hodgkin\n\nDouglas Irving Hodgkin is an American political scientist and author who, after teaching for 34 years, remains a professor emeritus of politics at Bates College in Lewiston, Maine.\n\nHodgkin was born in Lewiston, Maine. Hodgkin received his B.A. from Yale University and his M.A. and Ph.D from Duke University. Hodgkin taught for 34 years at Bates, retired in 2000, and remains a professor emeritus.\n\nHodgkin published numerous articles and books about political topics, especially New England politics. In 2005, he published \"Fractured Family\", a short book on the Maine courts.\n\nHe was active with the Republican Party in Maine and ran for political office several times as a Republican.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52502988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52502988", "title": "Eight-Year Study", "text": "Eight-Year Study\n\nThe Eight-Year Study was an experiment that tested how American progressive secondary schools would prepare their students for college when released from the curricular restrictions of college admissions requirements. Between 1933 and 1941, the Progressive Education Association sponsored curricular experimentation in 29 model schools with the security that over 200 colleges would admit their students on the recommendations of their principals rather than curricular requirements. The schools received curricular consultants but were otherwise uninhibited in their curricular choices. Their changes tended towards indivdiualized student attention with more cross-disciplinary programming and greater emphasis on arts and extracurriculars. The General Education Board and other foundations offered significant financial backing towards the study.\n\nThe study concluded that, when compared to their peers in traditional secondary school programs, students of the study's experimental programs performed on par academically and showed more activity in artistic, political, and social engagement. Students of the study's most experimental schools outperformed the others. The implications of the study were limited by the natural advantages of the student–participants' high social class backgrounds and their schools' lack of privations, even before the study's added resources. The reforms instituted in the participant schools subsided within a decade of the study's end, owing to the more conservative political climate of World War II and the Cold War, the reforms' increased labor demands on teachers, and increased competition in college admissions. Nevertheless, the study showed that the curricular structure of American high schools could change under propitious conditions. Its influence was reflected not in direct change but its influence on its participants and subsequent reformers.\n\nBased on the criticism that American secondary education curriculum had been designed to meet the needs of college admissions rather than those of students, the Progressive Education Association sponsored an eight-year study between 1933 and 1941 to determine whether young adults could excel in college if college admission requirements were revoked. The Progressive Education Association's Commission on the Relation of School and College convinced more than 200 colleges to admit highly qualified high school students on the recommendations of high school principals who participate in the study. The colleges, who suffered decreased enrollment during the Great Depression, were relatively easy to recruit. And of 200 nominated high schools, 29 were chosen based on their repute, including 10 public high schools (including all of those in Denver), six university-based high schools, and 13 independent schools. With their college admissions requirements lifted, the high schools began to experiment with their curriculum. The commission provided curriculum consultants and analysts to the schools but otherwise did not intervene in their experimentation.\n\nSimilar patterns of curricular reform developed across the participant high schools. Programming was increasingly cross-disciplinary with former emphasis on traditional classes displaced for more arts programming. Teachers engaged in more collaborative class planning and prep and changed their class sizes and lengths. Students blended formal and informal education in programs that included community service, group decision-making, and artistic productions. Many schools chose to constitute smaller mini-schools within their high schools. In general, these changes shifted school emphasis from factory model schools to individualized student attention.\n\nThe General Education Board and other foundations contributed more than a million dollars (equivalent to $ million in ) towards the study.\n\nThe study concluded that graduates of the Eight-Year Study high schools received grades on par with their equivalent peers from traditional high schools, but were more active in artistic, political, and social activities. Additionally, graduates of the study's high schools with most progressive changes fared better than the high schools that made more modest changes. These results were unsurprising given the relative advantages of the study's students and schools: youth with the relative advantages of high social class upbringing coming from well-equipped schools. The participants also reaped advantages from curricular resources (consultants, grants, publicity) that would not be afforded to similar efforts.\n\nEven as the Progressive Education Association's director trumpeted that multiple preparatory paths could lead to college success, the reforms subsided in the participant schools within a decade. Representatives from across the study met in 1950 and concluded that their schools had returned to fundamentals, focusing on mechanics of spelling over writing assignments and Carnegie unit preparatory regimentation over time spent on arts and extracurriculars. These representatives said that World War II and Cold War security concerns—and their resulting conservative authoritarianism—overrode progressive interests in both society and the school. \n\nInternal to the high schools, the demands of collaborative teaching and the programmatic setbacks of high staff turnover wore upon teachers. These progressive factions had limited entry in the participating schools, and when their progressive approach faltered, traditionalists reasserted authority. Upon inspection, some of the study's model schools had implemented little progressive reform and instead appeared to have joined the study for reasons of prestige. The schools that continued to experiment post-study were predominantly those that had been most progressive before the study started. External to the high schools, colleges became more selective as applicants increased in the late 1940s. Colleges did not adopt the study's recommendations for reasons of disbelief or ignorance.\n\nThe Eight-Year Study showed that the curricular structure of American high schools could change under propitious conditions: when families and teachers held liberal ideology, colleges relaxed vetting mechanisms, and foundations offered support. The study brought a brief period of energy and happiness to its participants, who considered the effort worthwhile in retrospect. Its major impact was not direct change but its influence on its participants and subsequent reformers.\n\n"}
{"id": "7556696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7556696", "title": "Examen artium", "text": "Examen artium\n\nExamen artium was the name of the academic certification conferred in Denmark and Norway, qualifying the student for admission to university studies. Examen artium was originally introduced as the entrance exam of the University of Copenhagen in 1630. The University of Copenhagen was the only university of Denmark-Norway until The Royal Frederick University in Christiania was founded in 1811.\n\nIn Norway, examen artium was formally discontinued after the 1982 class (but the term is still sometimes used informally to denote the diploma from today's \"videregående skole\").\n\nTypically after their tenth and final year of compulsory primary school education, students applied for admission to a three-year programs of studies, called \"lines\" at schools called \"gymnas\" within their counties. The curricula for the lines included a core of general studies topics, including Norwegian, mathematics, history, English, physical education, and one natural science subject.\n\nThe curricula of the individual lines emphasized particular subjects. Examples include:\n\n\nStudents's final grades were based on the grading of their classroom work and the grades achieved at standardized examinations. Such examinations were either written for core and emphasized subjects, or oral for all subjects. Written examinations were mandatory for bokmål, nynorsk, and English final essay, and at least two other subjects. Oral examinations were given by drawing lot.\n\nIn principle, examen artium gave students eligibility to matriculate in Norwegian and foreign universities. However, some programs would limit eligibility to certain lines as well as academic performance within these lines. For example, Norwegian medical and engineering programs would only consider applications from \"realfag\" and natural sciences.\n"}
{"id": "32187994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32187994", "title": "Federation autonome du collegial", "text": "Federation autonome du collegial\n\nThe Federation autonome du collegial (FAC) is a teachers union in the Canadian province of Quebec, representing teachers at a number of the province's CEGEPs.\n\nThe FAC represented three thousand teachers at fourteen CEGEPs during a bargaining process with the provincial government in 1989–90. After protracted negotiations, the FAC accepted a separate contract from that of two other provincial unions representing CEGEP teachers, the Fédération nationale des enseignantes et enseignants du Québec and the Central de l'Enseignement du Quebec.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, the FAC had grown to represent teachers at seventeen Quebec CEGEPs. A representative of the union wrote a piece against proposed CEGEP mergers in 1997, arguing that it would result in fewer programs and reduced access to education for students.\nIn 2006, the FAC joined with other Quebec unions to create a brochure for students called, \"Let's Talk Politics,\" drawing attention to education issues.\n\nIn April 2009, the FAC expressed its support for Syndicat des professeurs et professeures de l'Université members who were involved in labour action at the Université du Québec à Montréal.\n"}
{"id": "20103599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20103599", "title": "History of the University of Santo Tomas", "text": "History of the University of Santo Tomas\n\nThe University of Santo Tomas is one of the oldest existing universities and holds the oldest extant university charter in the Philippines and in Asia. It was founded on April 28, 1611 by the third Archbishop of Manila, Miguel de Benavides, together with Frs. Domingo de Nieva and Bernardo de Santa Catalina. It was originally conceived as a school to prepare young men for the priesthood. Located Intramuros, it was first called Colegio de Nuestra Señora del Santísimo Rosario and later renamed Colegio de Santo Tomás in memory of Dominican theologian Saint Thomas Aquinas. In 1624, the Colegio was authorized to confer academic degrees in Theology, Philosophy and Arts. On November 20, 1645 Pope Innocent X elevated the College to the rank of a university and in 1680 it was placed under royal patronage.\n\nThrough the centuries, the University was given the following titles: Royal, Pontifical, and Catholic University of the Philippines. In 1785, for the loyalty shown by the administration and students who volunteered to defend Manila against the British invasion, King Charles III of Spain granted it the title of \"Royal University\". Pope Leo XIII made the University of Santo Tomas a \"Pontifical University\" on 1902 and in 1947, Pope Pius XII bestowed upon it the title of \"The Catholic University of the Philippines\". Thus its complete name is The Pontifical and Royal University of Santo Tomas, The Catholic University of the Philippines ().\n\nIn 1927, with the continuing increase in enrollment, the University moved from Intramuros to its present site which covers an area of 21.5 hectares in the district of Sampaloc, Manila. Since its foundation, the University's academic life has been interrupted only twice: 1898 to 1899, during the Philippine revolution against Spain; and 1942 to 1945, during the Japanese occupation of Manila, when the University of Santo Tomas was transformed by the Japanese military into an internment camp.\n\nAlthough a few Dominican missionaries worked together to establish the University – including Miguel de Benavides, Bernardo Navarro, and other old professors from the higher colleges and universities in Spain – the founding of the University is attributed mainly to Miguel de Benavides, the first to give a fund for the maintenance of the institution.\n\nMiguel de Benavides was born in 1550 in the Castilian town of Carrión de los Condes, province of Palencia, Spain, in the heart of the austere, grain-producing Tierra de Campos. Benavides was steeped in the theological principles of Francisco de Vitoria and Bartolomé de las Casas, who exchanged the prestigious professorial chair for remote and difficult new missions of the Philippines. He was chosen to govern the newly created Diocese of Nueva Segovia (now Vigan) as its First Bishop (1595–1601). He wrote the Doctrina Christiana in Chinese, the first book printed in the Philippines.\n\nLater, he was promoted to be the third Archbishop of Manila (1602–1605). On July 26, 1605, Benavides died.\n\nIn an appearance before King Philip II, he obtained a royal decree ordering the holding a referendum in the Philippines towards political self-determination. It took place in 1599. The people chose to be under the sovereignty and protection of the monarch. This event was the only plebiscite known in the entire colonial history before the 20th century.\n\nIn December 1878, the University Rector conceived the idea of erecting a monument with a statue of the founder in the Plaza de Santo Tomás in Intramuros. The Benavides Monument was made in Paris in 1889 through funds collected by the faculty, students and friends of the university. It was inaugurated on July 2, 1891 – opening of the school year. The monument is a bronze figure of Benavides on a pedestal facing the old campus in Intramuros. The base of the statue has the name of the sculptor and year of the make: Tony Noël, 1889. The pedestal was decorated with the seals of the Dominican Order and the university, as well as plaques on which were written the history of UST and a brief biography of the archbishop.\n\nThe statue was blown from its place by an artillery shell during the 1945 Battle of Manila, completely obliterating its marble pedestal. It was re-erected on November 13, 1946 inside the UST campus in Sampaloc, Manila.\n\nThe present bronze statue of Benavides is in front of the Main Building of the Sampaloc campus, rising on top of a granite pedestal flanked by four lions each bearing the coats-of-arms of the Philippines, Spain, Holy See, and the Dominican Order. He dons the rugged habit of the pioneer Dominican missionaries. His right hand is elevated in the preaching fashion, his index finger pointing to heavens. His left hand rests on his chest holding a book bearing the words Santo Evangélico on its cover. A skull cap covers his head, and a pectoral cross hangs from his neck, the symbols of Episcopal dignity.\n\nThe University seems to have originated from the Dominican Conventual School of Santo Domingo (known often by the name of Our Lady of the Holy Rosary) with which it carried a common existence until 1611. The Dominican Order arrived in 1587. A program was held to solemnize the feast of St. Dominic, an old university student at Palencia and the founder of Order of Preachers. The celebration was held in the main hall of the Cathedral in the presence of prominent dignitaries of all religious orders and of the civil authorities. The academic act was directed by a professor of Theology, Pedro de Soto.\n\nFrom that moment Bishop Domingo de Salazar – first Bishop of the Philippines – was inspired to found a College-University similar to those in Mexico, where religious and lay persons might pursue college studies; and to begin with, a \"School of Grammar\" was established in addition to the \"Escuela de Tiples\". At that same time, it was determined that fathers Miguel de Benavides and Miguel de Santamaria give conferences in the Episcopal Palace in the Cathedral, and in the Convent-School of Santo Domingo.\nIn his will dated July 26, 1605, Feast of St. Anne, Fray Miguel de Benavides made provision for the foundation of the institution by bequeathing his library and goods valued at ₱1,500 which served as the nucleus of funds for the establishment of an institution of higher learning. This nucleus was increased to ₱7,140 by donations made by Pablo Rodríguez, Andrés Hermosa, and Juan Morales. After Benavides' death, in the same year, his confreres carried on - albeit with small funds - in order to realize his idea. As Fr. Sánchez wrote in his book, \"Few Institutions have begun their lives in this world with such scanty material means as did our University.\"\n\nIn 1609, permission to open the College was requested from King Philip III, which only reached Manila in 1611. On April 28, 1611, the Document of Foundation was signed by Baltasar Fort, Provincial of the Dominican Province of the Holy Rosary; Francisco Minayo, Prior of the Santo Domingo Convent; and Bernardo de Santa Catalina, Commissary-General of the Holy Office of the Philippines, which thus converted into University thirty-four years later. Notary Juan Illian witnessed the signing of the act of foundation.\n\nIt was Bernardo de Santa Catalina who executed the document of foundation stating that \"the residue of his (Benavides') legacy should be applied to the founding and endowing of a college. He carried out Benavides’s wishes and was able to secure a building near the Dominican church and convent in Intramuros for the College.\n\nThe historians of the University affirmed that it was \"the outgrowth if the early educational labors inaugurated by the Dominican Order shortly after the arrival (in this country) of its first missionaries in 1587.\"\n\nThe institution started its operation with courses in Theology, Arts, and Philosophy as the College of Our Lady of the Most Holy Rosary (). In 1617, the College was renamed as College of Santo Tomas () after the Dominican theologian St. Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274).\n\nPrior to the Act of Foundation, King Philip III granted, through the Governor-General, the permission to open a college in Manila. So in 1612, Fr. Domingo González, O.P., Lector of the Santo Domingo Convent, was appointed to work on the completion the organization of the college. In that same year, when classes also began, the Dominican Province of the Holy Rosary accepted the College, an act which amounted to the Dominican Order's assuming the responsibility in the operation of the institution. In 1619, in the name of King Philip IV, the Governor-General of the Philippines, gave his approval. The Holy See granted, although indirectly or implicitly, recognition to the new College in 1619. In 1627, Pope Urban VIII also authorized the College to confer academic degrees, so that the said academic degrees had both royal and papal approval. Although the College had only been in operation for a few years, records show that degrees were already being conferred in 1640.\n\nUpon petition of King Philip IV, Pope Innocent X converted the College into a University on November 20, 1645, in his brief, \"In Supreminenti\", thus conferring upon it the status of University under the patronage of the Holy See. UST was later recognized as a \"university for life\" by the Real Audencia of Spain. Then on May 12, 1680, King Charles II of Spain extended Royal Patronage to the University. It was also that year in 1645 that the Master General of the Dominican Order, acting under the authority granted by the Roman Pontiff, assumed the authority to appoint its Rector and with to \"have charge of the healthy and happy direction of the University\". It was thus a confirmation of the fact that the Rector of the University became the highest administrator of the University, with the implementation of the different curricula, methods of instruction, and the adoption of \"laudable customs of other universities\". The course in Canon Law was started in 1732.\n\nThe campus stood in Intramuros opposite the old church of Santo Domingo. It is a site which was bounded on the north by Calle Aduana, on the east by Plaza España, on the south by Plaza Santo Tomás, and on the west by the Ayuntamiento. The edifice had a lower and upper floor and area of .\n\nThe earliest records in the Archives of the University lists twelve graduates from 1629 to 1645. The graduates were conferred Doctorate degrees in Theology and Masters and Licentiate degrees in the Arts. Investitures held since 1663 were recorded in the official graduation book called Libro de Asiento de Grados de la Universidad de Santo Tomas.\n\nPhilip IV had granted his Royal approval on November 27, 1623. Official royal patronage was accorded to the University on May 12, 1680, by King Charles II of Spain.\n\nHowever, the title \"Royal University\" was only bestowed by King Charles III on May 20, 1785 during the eight-year term of Fr. Domingo Collantes, O.P.. The title \"Real\" was given to the UST in recognition of its loyalty to the Crown after the University volunteered its students for the military defense of Manila during the recurrence of war between the allied countries of France, Spain against England.\n\nThe 1865 decree for the revamp of secondary education brought about major developments for UST. It was tasked as a Bureau of Education with the Rector as its director. This meant that UST was to handle all matters pertaining to secondary education from the appointment of the school professors; the submission of grades, and the signing of the awarding of diplomas to the bachelor of arts graduates.\n\nIn 1870 Segismundo Moret, the Minister of colonies, issued two decrees that totally reorganized the Philippine education system. The first decree abolished all secondary schools and placed them under a single \"Instituto Filipino.\" The second decree converted the University of Santo Tomás, being the only official institution of higher learning in the islands, into a Universidad de Filipinas, thus the name Royal and Pontifical University of the Philippines.\n\nThe fall of the Spanish liberal government (which led to Moret's removal) and the monarchical restoration abolished these decrees. The university was handed back to the Dominicans. It was only be in 1877 that Spain recognized the university again as an institution administered by the religious.\n\nThe University closed its doors during the Philippine Revolution of 1896 because of the ensuing disorder. It reopened though for the school year 1897–1898 when the rebels retreated to the provinces. The arrival of the Spanish–American War to the Philippines and the resumption of the Revolution in 1898 led again to the suspension of classes. UST closed for the school year 1898–1899.\n\nJosé Rizal, national hero of the Philippines, entered the University in 1877. He enrolled in the pre-Law course, which was made up of philosophical subjects. The course was called Metaphysics. He passed the course with the highest grades.\n\nHe later chose to enter a career in medicine. And in 1878–1879, he took simultaneously the pre-Medical course and the first year of Medicine; this was against the rules, but Rizal was favored with a dispensation which few received. The pre-Medicine course was called \"Ampliación\", because the student, having taken already Physics, Chemistry, and Natural History in the high school, now took an advanced course on the same subjects. Rizal did not take in Santo Tomas \"class of physics\" he described in El Filibusterismo, but the course of \"Ampliación\".\n\nWhile studying medicine, Rizal remained an above-average, although his grades were not high as those that he received in classes in the arts and letters. This continued even in his later studies in Madrid. Rizal was not recorded to have ever complained about his grades in the University, while he did complain about those he received in Madrid.\n\nIn the fourth and last year in the University, only seven students remained, and Rizal was one of them. And he ended that year in second place.\n\nFollowing the requirements of Act No. 1459 also known as the Corporation Law of 1906, the University was incorporated. The application contained the following statements: \"That the name of the corporation is and will be known as the \"Royal and Pontifical University of Santo Tomas\" and abbreviated as \"University of Santo Tomas\", \"that the corporation is located in Manila with its main office at 139 Calle de Sto. Tomas, Intramuros\"\"\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, a 21.5 hectare plot of land in the Sulucan Hills of Sampaloc, Manila was donated by Francesca Bustamante Bayot to the Dominican fathers for the University's expansion outside Intramuros. In 1927, Main Building, the first earthquake-proof building in the Philippines, was then inaugurated at the Sulucan site.\n\nFor the first time in the history of UST, the Faculty of Pharmacy opened its doors to women in the academic year 1924–1925. It was one of the first universities in the Philippines to become co-educational when it admitted women. There were 24 women enrollees out of the 93 who matriculated for the said Faculty that school year. The University, however, had been granting certificates through the School of Midwifery since 1879. Permission was given to the College of Education in 1926, to Faculty of Philosophy and Letters in 1927 followed by the Faculty of Medicine and Surgery and College of Commerce in 1932. The admission of women no longer became an issue in later years. Only the Faculties of Sacred Theology, Canon Law, and Philosophy remained exclusively for men.\n\nIn 1925, it became one of the first universities in the Philippines to require the use of English as a medium of instruction, to replace Spanish. When it was appropriate to Filipinize the administration, Fr. Leonardo Z. Legazpi, O.P. became the first Filipino Rector of UST on October 9, 1971.\n\nSince its establishment in 1611, the University's academic life was interrupted only twice: from 1898 to 1899, during the Philippine Revolution against Spain, and from 1942 to 1945, during the Japanese occupation of the country. In its long history, the university has been under the leadership of more than 90 Rectors. UST's first Filipino rector was Fr. Leonardo Legaspi, O.P. who served UST from 1971–1977.\nIn recognition of its achievements, a number of important dignitaries have officially visited the university, among them, during the last three decades: Pope Paul VI on November 28, 1970; King Juan Carlos I of Spain in 1974 and 1995; Mother Teresa of Calcutta in January 1977 and again in November 1984; Pope John Paul II on February 18, 1981 and January 13, 1995 (as part of the World Youth Day 1995).\n\nOn September 17, 1902, in his constitution, \"Quae Mari Sinico\", Pope Leo XIII bestowed upon the University the title of Pontifical University.\n\nThis title may be considered a reiteration of the honor and protection previously granted when, in 1619, the Holy See had already issued the brief \"Charissimi in Christo\", which enabled students who had studied in the Dominican Colleges of the Indies for five years to receive degrees, in 1629 and 1639 by Pope Urban VIII, and in 1645, when Pope Innocent X converted the College of Santo Tomas into a University.\n\nUST is Asia's only remaining Pontifical university. Annuario Pontificio, the annual official directory of the Holy See, in its edition for the year 2000, lists all the Catholic and or Pontifical institutes of higher learning, grouping them into two categories: Roman Ateneums and Catholic Universities. Only 24 are called Pontifical, and of these 24, six are located in Rome (Gregorian University, Lateran University, Urbanian University, University of Santo Tomas (known as The Angelicum), Salisian University and Holy Cross University); three are in Europe; fourteen in Latin America; and one in Asia, this one being the University of Santo Tomas of Manila. The oldest university to be denominated by the Holy See as Pontifical is the Jesuit Gregorian University in Rome. Although founded in 1551, it was Pope Pius IX who, in 1873, permitted the school to assume the title of ‘Pontifical University.’\" All the other abovementioned 23 universities received the title of Pontifical in the 20th century. The University of Santo Tomas of Manila, the oldest of them, is second only to the Gregorian University to be declared Pontifical by the apostolic constitution Quae Mari Sinico in 1902.\n\nFor five days, on December 16–20, 1911, the University celebrated its 300th Anniversary. The main features of the celebration included: a Solemn High Mass in honor of the founder of the University, Miguel de Benavides; the unveiling of the commemorative plaque for the festivities; the unveiling of a plaque placed at the pedestal of the statue of Benavides in the College site in Intramuros; the laying of the foundation stone for the future building at University in Sampaloc; and a big banquet.\n\nAround 300 guests, both civil and ecclesiastical authorities, professors, and alumni of the University attended the banquet at the Colegio de San Juan de Letran. The solemn investiture of the latest graduates of the University was held in the Santo Domingo Church.\n\nThe laying of the cornerstone of a new building of the University in Sampaloc was hailed by the people. On the last day of the celebrations, a fireworks display was held.\n\nPope Pius X, and members of the Philippine Hierarchy sent congratulatory messages to the University on the occasion of its Tricentenary celebrations.\n\nDuring World War II, the Japanese converted the campus into an internment camp for civilians, foreigners and POWs. War crimes against American soldiers (Filipino soldiers were granted amnesty) and civilians living abroad occurred in Santo Tomas.\n\nOn the evening of January 2, soon after the Japanese forces entered Manila, as well as on January 3, many Americans and other Allied citizens were taken to the University Camp. The camp population totaled 3,259 of which 2,200 were American, 74 British, 920 Dutch, 28 Polish, 36 Mexicans and 1 Nicaraguan.\n\nAll the buildings of the University in Sampaloc with the exception of the Seminary, the Printing Press and two first floors of Main Building were occupied. The war internees occupied three floors of the Main Building, the entire Education Building (presently UST Hospital), the Domestic Science building, and the School of Mines building. Communication between them and the outside world was prevented by the Japanese as much as possible.\n\nOutside fences in España avenue were completely covered with tall \"sawali\" (woven bamboo matting), while the concrete walls on all other sides of the Campus remained high, preventing view between the internees and the outside world. The years of Japanese occupation were years of great suffering for the internees.\n\nThe University authorities cooperated with the internees and the Japanese officials. They were given several duties by the Japanese, which they performed. Dominican Fathers were still allowed to direct the use of disposition of the University buildings, equipment, and power plant, although subject to the final approval or disapproval of the Japanese authorities.\n\nDuring the liberation of Manila buildings of the University in Intramuros, as well as in Sampaloc were damaged or destroyed. The facility in Intramuros was burned on February 8, 1944. As for those in Sampaloc, though they were not destroyed, some portions were slightly damaged during the shellings, including the rooms on the West of the Main Building, some rooms of the Education building, and the University gymnasium.\n\nThere were about 335 casualties among the internees, 35 died and 300 were wounded. Some were buried in a vacant lot outside the Forbes gate, and others were buried inside the campus.\n\nThe Dominicans, who introduced the first printing press in the Philippines, were fortunate to have been able to transfer the UST printing press from Intramuros to the España campus in the nick of time in 1940, a year before the Pearl Harbor bombing.\n\nOn April 30, 1947, Pope Pius XII, through the Decree \"Sacrae Congregationis de Seminariis et Studiorum Universitatibus\", bestowed upon it the title of \"The Catholic University of the Philippines\". The UST is the only Catholic university in the region and in terms of student population, the largest Catholic University in the world located in one campus.\n\nThroughout 1961, the University celebrated its 350th year. The principal festivities such as the alumni banquet and the Gala Concert were held on March 4–7, 1961.\n\nPope John XXIII sent a warm personal letter to the University. He called the University \"Christianae Sapientiae emicantissimum\" or the \"most resplendent light of Christian Wisdom\" in the seven page communication dispatched to Manila from the Vatican through the Apostolic Nuncio. Through the Rector Magnificus, the Pope extended his felicitations on the University's golden jubilee and maternal blessings for continued growth, prosperity, and peace. He also congratulate the University for being \"A very valid bulwark of Christian civilization\".\n\n UST had a total enrollment of approximately 45,000 students, 33,000 undergraduates and 5,000 students in Medicine, Law, and the Graduate School. The University admits about 8,500  new students out of 50,000 applicants per year.\n\nAfter 400 years, the University has five clusters of discipline: Science and Technology; Arts and the Humanities; Education and the Social Sciences; Medicine and Health, and the Ecclesiastical Faculties – spread over 21 faculties, colleges, and institutes.\n\nThe agenda ahead of the University's quadricentennial in 2011 includes the introduction of new academic programs, improvements in the University's infrastructure, and other projects to raise UST’s national and international prominence and promote its role as a social catalyst.\n\nPlans to open satellite campuses in Santa Rosa, Laguna and another in General Santos City are being put in place.\n\nPhysical developments for the Sampaloc campus are ongoing. The Plaza Mayor in front the Main Building, together with the Quadricentennial Square which will feature the Tetraglobal sculpture, the Quadricentennial Fountain, and the Quadricentennial Alumni Walkway were constructed in 2006. To accommodate the needs of extra space for the growing number of student activities, the UST Tan Yan Kee Student Center was built in front of the Miguel de Benavides Library. The more-than-80-year-old Main Building, and the artifacts and art works in the UST Museum of Arts and Sciences were recently placed under the preservation of the UST Heritage Conservation program in December 2008.\n\nThe UST Benavides Cancer Institute, part of the five-year redevelopment plan and expansion of the UST Hospital for its 60-year celebration and the quadricentennial celebration, was also established in the year 2006.\n\nPart of the University's infrastructure modernization is the construction of the P800-million, state-of-the-art, four-storey gymnasium capable of seating 5,792, designed by Thomasian architects José Pedro Recio and Carmelo T. Casas. The construction has been completed in time for the Quadricentennial Celebration of the University. This is through the able leadership of the Rector of the University, Rev. Fr. Rolando V. de la Rosa, O.P. Another project which is under construction is the Thomasian Alumni Center, a 10-storey building that will be a symbol of the outstanding achievements of Thomasian alumni all over the world. Part of the construction cost has been donated by alumni, notably the UST Medical Alumni in America.\n\nThe UST Publishing House in 2001 launched its quadricentennial project, “400 Books at 400!”. From theology to literature to medicine-related disciplines written in both Filipino and English, the Publishing house is more than half way in completing its race.\n\nThe series of benefices, favors and privileges granted to UST by the Spanish monarchs started in 1609 when Philip III issued a royal cédula requesting from the governor and the audencia a report on the projected college. He petitioned Pope Paul V for the granting of faculties of Philosophy and Theology. These faculties were implemented by order of Philip IV in 1624, and three years later this monarch petitioned Rome for the extension of these faculties for an additional ten years. He was the same monarch who petitioned the Pope to elevate the college to the level of a university in 1645. \n\nKing Charles II, in 1680, added to this list of benefices already granted by his predecessors, when in Royal Cédula he formally declared that the University be placed under his royal patronage.\n\nAnother Royal Cédula of Charles II, with two others from Philip V, his successor, resulted in 1733 in the creation of the Faculties of Civil and Canon Laws. At the same time, the Holy See granted the university faculties to give academic degrees in those two disciplines and in others that might eventually be established.\n\nIn 1781 King Charles III authorized the University to prepare its own statutes, independent of those of the University of Mexico through, which, up to that time, the University was governed.\n\nWhen, in 1762, Manila was occupied briefly by the British, the Rector of the University, Fr. Domingo Collantes, organized four companies of university youth to help in the defense of the city. Acknowledging this act of loyalty, King Charles III, in his Royal Cédula of March 7, 1785, expressed his \"gratitude and benevolence,\" and renewed his protection and patronage, and granted the University the title of \"Very Loyal\", as well as the title and honors corresponding to it, as a \"Royal University\". \n\nIn 1865 Queen Isabel II declared the University of Santo Tomas the center for public education throughout the Philippines, and affiliated to her all colleges and schools throughout the country, and constituting the Rector of the University the supervisor and inspector of all the centers of learning so affiliated to the University.\n\nIn 1871 the Faculties of Medicine and Pharmacy were established, and three years later, by authority of a Royal Order given by Alfonso XII, the School for Notaries was created.\n\nIn 1649, in response to the expressions of royal concern shown over its welfare, the university community addressed Philip IV, saying that the University \"requests Your Royal Highness that you keep her within your Royal Solicitude, because she has been, from her very beginnings, a fruit of your royal bounty, and from the desire that she should grow and progress ever through efforts so Royal and so Catholic.\"\n\nIn expression of gratitude for the nearly 300 years of royal benevolence and to establish a continuous affinity between Spain and UST, the University bestowed the title of Royal Patron to King Juan Carlos (Royal House of Bourbon) of Spain in February 1974 (then Prince of Spain).\n\nThe seal of the University of Santo Tomas is a shield quartered by the Dominican Cross. Superimposed on the cross is the sun of Saint Thomas Aquinas, patron of Catholic schools, after whom the university is named. The sun is actually made similar to the Sun of May.\n\nEncircling the Dominican cross are:\n\nThe symbols are rendered in gold (except for the Dominican cross which is black and white), and are set on a field of light blue, the Marian color.\n\nThe Tongues of Fire is the official logo for the Quadricentennial celebration of the university. This logo features the outline of the UST Main Building Tower as a concrete symbol of the stability, integrity and 400 years of existence of the university. From the cross of the Main Building emanate four tongues of fire that spell out U, S, and T. The tongues of fire reference the future of the university, some ideals, and are reminiscent of the stripes of the Tiger, the school's mascot. The Quadricentennial logo was designed by Dopy Doplon, a Thomasian.\n\nThe official seal used by the University in 1868 to 1935 was a cardioid shield. On top of the seal was the world, the emblem of the university. A figure of a dog which symbolized fidelity was also seen together with the world. Below it was the sun of Aquinas. Just below the sun were three ovals. The left oval contained the Pontifical arms symbolizing the Apostolic concession by which the College of Santo Tomas was raised to be a university. The center oval contained the Dominican cross. It was also surrounded by white lilies and crowned by a star. The right oval contained the national arms of Spain (coat of arms of the Spanish East Indies) to indicate the protection which Philip IV vouchsafed to the University. On the topmost portion of the three ovals was the world, the emblem of the University. The shield was surrounded by the Golden Fleece.\n\nThe 1935–1938 seal, 1937–1946 seal, and 1957–1983 seal had changes depending on the government/regime the Philippines had. The 1935–1938 seal contained the coat of arms of the Commonwealth of the Philippines. The coat of arms of the Spanish East Indies was retained in the 1937–1946 seal. The 1957–1983 seal replaced the coat of arms of the Commonwealth of the Philippines with the coat of arms of the Philippines.\n\nIn the 1960s, the seal was a variant of the 1868-1935 official seal (a cardioid shield with an orb and cross, the hound with the burning torch, and directly below the sun of St. Thomas Aquinas whose rays extend throughout the whole of the seal). The seal then consisted of a white field with four ovals arranged in a \"T\" fashion, featuring the coats of arms of the Republic of the Philippines to the left, the Holy See in the center, of Spain (only the arms without the Pillas of Hercules) to the right; and below the Holy See oval that of the Dominican Order, surrounded by a rosary, crowned by a star (\"St. Dominic's star\"), and flanked by a palm branch (representing martyrdom) to its left and white lilies to the right. All these symbolize the University as Pontifical, Dominican, & Spanish in origin, as well as being established in and under the laws of the Philippines. The upper half of the seal is flanked by laurel leaves on both sides and the lower half by the collar-chain of the Order of the Golden Fleece, symbolizing the University as Royal. The inner border of the seal is lined with the Latin name of the University (\"Pontificia et Regalis S(ancti) Thomæ Aquinatis Universitas Manilana\").\n\nWhen a new seal was unveiled in June 2011, it received several negative feedback from the students through social networking sites like Facebook and Twitter. The changes were made after the Curia in Rome suggested for a uniformity in the titles and name of UST. The university's council of Regents decided to include UST's name in the new seal and drop the titles of Royal and Pontifical because they are not part of the official name of university. The seal was revised a month after and is currently being used today.\n\nThe present seal bears the honorific titles and the name of the university.\n\n"}
{"id": "36699418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36699418", "title": "Howard Besser", "text": "Howard Besser\n\nHoward Besser (born c. 1952) is a scholar of digital preservation, digital libraries, and preservation of film and video. He is Professor of Cinema Studies and the founding director of the NYU Moving Image Archiving and Preservation Program (\"MIAP\"), a graduate program in the Tisch School. Besser is a prolific writer and speaker, and has consulted with many governments, educational institutions, and arts agencies on digital preservation matters. He was closely involved in development of the Dublin Core and the Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard (METS), international standards within librarianship.\n\nBesser grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area, and earned a Bachelor's degree in 1976 from the University of California, Berkeley. He studied film in Paris at the Centre Internationale d'Études des Cinema. He earned a Master's and PhD in Library Science in 1977 and 1988 respectively, both from UC Berkeley.\n\nBesser was on the faculty of UC Berkeley's School of Information for a number of years, before accepting a position as professor at UCLA's School of Education and Information Studies in 1999. He retired from UCLA, becoming a Professor Emeritas there, in order to found the MIAP program at New York University in 2004. He also taught at the University of Michigan's School of Information and at the University of Pittsburgh.\n\nBesser is well known for his habit of wearing only t-shirts, and for maintaining a t-shirt database. A number of his classes used the t-shirt database as a cataloging and metadata practicum, cataloging t-shirts into the database with appropriate metadata.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32221931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32221931", "title": "Institute of Engineering and Management", "text": "Institute of Engineering and Management\n\nThe Institute of Engineering & Management (IEM), is a private engineering and management school located in the state of West Bengal, India. Founded in the year, 1989, it is the oldest private engineering school in the state.\n\nThe undergraduate courses offer B.Tech in engineering streams including Computer Science, Information Technology, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Electrical & Electronics Engineering, while the postgraduate courses offer an M.Tech degree. There is a provision for Ph.D in Electronics and Communication Engineering and MSc. in Information Science. The institute offers postgraduate diploma course in Management Studies.\n\nApart from these, the Faculty of Technology offers Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) degree course. The institute offers Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) and Masters in Business Administration (MBA) degree courses at the undergraduate and postgraduate level respectively.\nThe institute is ranked 79 among all the engineering colleges in India by the engineering ranking publication of (NIRF 2016)MHRD.It is ranked in top 150 colleges of India in NIRF 2018(MHRD).It has often been considered the best private engineering college in the state of West Bengal, India..It is a NAAC grade 'A' college.\n\n"}
{"id": "6576364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6576364", "title": "International Webmasters Association", "text": "International Webmasters Association\n\nThe International Webmasters Association (IWA), a non-profit professional association for web professionals, provides training courses and certification.\n\nIWA reportedly has 100 official chapters representing over 22,000 individual members in 106 countries. IWA's accomplishments include the publishing of the industry's first guidelines for ethical and professional standards, web certification and education programs, specialized employment resources, and technical assistance to individuals and businesses. IWA is the only Web professional association that acts inside W3C: IWA members participate to the activities of W3C WCAG Working Group, ATAG Working Group, XHTML Working Group and other Working and Interaction group like Multimodal, education and Outreach.\n\n"}
{"id": "57492564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57492564", "title": "Kpando Secondary School", "text": "Kpando Secondary School\n\nKpando Secondary School is a second cycle co-ed institution in the Kpando district of the Volta Region of Ghana.\n\n"}
{"id": "34421528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34421528", "title": "Language Inspectorate", "text": "Language Inspectorate\n\nLanguage Inspectorate () is a governmental body under the Ministry of Education of Estonia. The inspectorate was founded in 1990 as the State Language Board with the mandate to, as the Commissioner for Human Rights states, to facilitate the republic's expectation that people offering services to the public should speak Estonian. Since 1995, its director is Ilmar Tomusk. It carries out state supervision with the primary task to ensure that the Language Act and other legal acts regulating language use are observed. Non-observance of the Language Act may result in warnings, written orders or fines.\n\nDuring the Soviet occupation, an intensive program of Russification had been undertaken. A massive program of Russian language education was imposed at the expense of the Estonian language and Russian replaced Estonian as the sole language in certain areas of the economy such as banking, mining, energy production, statistics, railways, naval and air transport. Estonians had to learn Russian in order to keep their jobs. By the 1980s, Russian was established as the official language while the Estonian language was effectively reduced to that of a \"de facto\" minority language within the country. Due to the increasing restrictions upon the public use of the Estonian language in Estonia, the extinction of the Estonian language had become a real possibility.\n\nAfter the restoration of independence in 1989, the Estonian language was proclaimed the sole official state language and the Language Act was promulgated as a remedy to the problem of the growth of Russian monolingualism during the Soviet period. The Language Act was based upon the principle of Russian/Estonian bilingualism which requires that the holders of certain jobs be proficient in Estonian in addition to Russian. The Act impacted those who were employed in positions that involve communication with the public or subordinates in state administration and in most cases required an elementary level of knowledge of around 800 words, impacting about 12% of the Russian speaking population. The Language Inspectorate was thus established to supervise the implementation of the Language Act. Later, new Language Acts were adopted, in 1995 and 2011.\n\nIn 2006, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance has noted that \"it appears that no system has been put in place to monitor the Language Inspectorate's implementation of the Law on Language\" and that \"the Language Inspectorate does not appear to take into account regional specificities when applying the Language Law\". In 2010, ECRI has repeated the recommendation to establish a monitoring mechanism for the work of the Language Inspectorate, and recommended \"regular consultation with representatives of Russian-speaking minorities on the work of the Language Inspectorate in order to improve the manner in which it is perceived by members of this group\".\n\nAccording to the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, in 2007, the Language Inspectorate was given power to recommend the dismissal of employees with insufficient language proficiency, to make people holding language certificates re-sit an exam. According to comments of Estonian government to CoE report, that was factually incorrect as the Inspectorate has always had these powers from inception.\n"}
{"id": "42744956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42744956", "title": "Lorella Jones", "text": "Lorella Jones\n\nLorella Margaret Jones (February 9, 1943—February 9, 1995), was a professor of physics and director of the Computer-based Education Research Laboratory (CERL) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Jones was interested in the application of computers to physics education and championed the cause of women in physics. She wrote an essay entitled \"Intellectual Contributions of Women in Physics\" in \"Women of Science: Righting the Record\".\n\nShe studied at Harvard, concentrating on mathematics, and graduated \"magna cum laude\" in 1964. From Harvard she moved on to Caltech receiving an M.Sc. in 1966 and Ph.D. in 1968. She became an associate professor of physics at Illinois in 1974, later becoming a full professor. Her research was in high-energy physics, particularly the force binding nuclear particles to quarks. Her career in research on theoretical high-energy focused on four things: Regge pole theory, phenomenological models of photomeson production, jet calculus in quantum chromodynamics (QCD), and use of Grassmann coordinates to describe internal symmetries. She took a sabbatical in 1981-82 to work at CERN, becoming a fellow of the American Physical Society in the division of particles and fields in 1982. She became director of the university’s Education Research Laboratory in the year 1992, remaining at the University of Illinois for her whole career and publishing a total of 64 papers based on her research.\nLorella Margaret Jones, born on February 9, 1943 in Toronto to an astronomer and industrial physicist, was a professor of physics and director of the Computer-based Education Research Laboratory (CERL) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She grew up with her parents, Donald and Shirley Jones of Urbana, and a sister Irene Jones of Livermore, California. Aside from her interest in physics, Dr. Jones enjoyed hobbies such as gardening at her garden in Meadowbrook Park, south of Urbana, and kayaking. She was into growing tons of vegetables and fruits and gave them out amongst her students and colleagues. She would also spend a summer month on an island in Lake Vermillion every year. Jones was very much a nature enthusiast along with being a physicist.\n\nJones was interested in the application of computers to physics education and championed the cause of women in physics. \nShe wrote an essay entitled \"Intellectual Contributions of Women in Physics\" in \"Women of Science: Righting the Record\".\n\nShe studied at Harvard, concentrating on mathematics, and graduated \"magna cum laude\" in 1964. From Harvard she moved on to Caltech receiving an M.Sc. in 1966 and Ph.D. in 1968. She became an associate professor of physics at Illinois in 1974, later becoming a full professor. Her research was in high-energy physics, particularly the force binding nuclear particles to quarks. Her career in research on theoretical high-energy focused on four things: Regge pole theory, phenomenological models of photomeson production, jet calculus in quantum chromodynamics (QCD), and use of Grassmann coordinates to describe internal symmetries. She took a sabbatical in 1981-82 to work at CERN, becoming a fellow of the American Physical Society in the division of particles and fields in 1982. She became director of the university’s Education Research Laboratory in the year 1992, remaining at the University of Illinois for her whole career and publishing a total of 64 papers based on her research.\n\nShe investigated photoproduction of energized mesons with H.W. Wyld. She examined the truth of the A1 state through watchful fractional wave investigation of the response and affirmed the presence of that pivotal meson by means of the supposed Deck mechanism. This drove her to work out the outcomes of hadronic enchant creation through a \"gluon combination\" demonstrate and to anticipate the principal highlights of bound quark-antiquark generation, especially the vitality reliance.\n\nShe then began research in the domain of partons and QCD. As a team with Migneron and others, she could create equations in the jet calculus of partons, where the viable propagators developed down instead of up, as in the Altarelli-Parisi plot. She in this way reproduced jets through Monte Carlo strategies, indicating how QCD falls from quarks and gluons can, on a basic level, be recognized. She then classified jets through the longitudinal connections between hard particles produced in the hadronic jets.\n\nShe ended up being intrigued by the utilization of concealed Grassmann factors for comprehension and ordering molecule symmetries. In work with Delbourgo and White, she explained the anharmonic Grassmann oscillator, which is the fermionic simple of the common anharmonic oscillator. She went ahead to create Dirac-like equations of movement, which incorporated the Grassmann variables in a general sense, and acquired quantized mass spectra, showing the helpfulness of such thoughts.\n\nDr. Lorella Jones died on February 9 in 1995, aged 51. She died in a nursing home in Champaign, Illinois. The cause of her death was cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1585772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1585772", "title": "Mahidol University", "text": "Mahidol University\n\nMahidol University (MU), an autonomous research institution in Thailand, had its origin in the establishment of Siriraj Hospital in 1888. Mahidol is among Thailand’s most prestigious universities with highly competitive entrance examinations. An acceptance rate for Medicine is 0.4% as of 2016 academic year.\nBecoming the University of Medical Science in 1943, it has been recognized as the country's fourth public university. The university was later renamed in 1969 by King Bhumibol Adulyadej after his father, Prince Mahidol of Songkhla, who is widely regarded as \"Father of Modern Medicine and Public Health of Thailand.\" The university originally focused on health sciences but also expanded to other fields in recent decades. It hosted Thailand's first medical school, the Siriraj Medical School. Today, MU offers a range of graduate (mostly international) and undergraduate programs from natural sciences to liberal arts with remote campuses in Kanchanaburi, Nakhon Sawan, and Amnat Charoen provinces. There are a total of 629 programs offered by MU altogether in 17 faculties, 6 colleges, 9 research institutions and 6 campuses. In terms of fiscal budget and portion of budget spent on research programs, MU receives the highest budget of any public university in Thailand: about $147 million each year, most of which is granted for graduate research programs. Mahidol University was ranked Thailand's #1 university in 2011 by QS Asian University Rankings.\nIn 2015, Mahidol University was ranked as one of the world's top 100 universities at which to study medicine, according to the QS World University Rankings.\n\nThe first Siamese medical school, the Bhatayakorn School () was founded under the royal decree of King Chulalongkorn in 1888 situated on the former Palace or today's Bangkok Noi campus at Siriraj Hospital and taught medicine as a 3-year medical certification course. After a visit by King Chulalongkorn and Queen Saovabha Phongsri, the medical school was renamed as the Rajapaethayalai (). The medical school was merged with Chulalongkorn University organized by Vajiravudh's decree on 6 April 1917 as the Faculty of Medicine of Chulalongkorn University (now the Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University).\n\nHowever, the government of General Phibunsongkhram then separated the Faculty of Medicine (Siriraj Medical School), Departments of Dentistry, Pharmacy, and Veterinary Science from Chulalongkorn University and re-organized them into the University of Medical Sciences (). The university was officially founded on February 2, 1943 and experienced drastic growth since then. Many new schools and departments were established during this era. In 1959, the Medical Science Preparatory School (now Faculty of Science) was moved to Phaya Thai area - thus beginning the Phaya Thai campus. During the 1960s the university focused its development on the Phaya Thai campus. In 1965, another medical school was established – the Faculty of Medicine of Ramathibodi Hospital at Phaya Thai. The first medical school outside Bangkok was also set up as Faculty of Medicine Nakorn Chiang Mai Hospital in Chiang Mai Province, until 1964 when it was transferred to Chiang Mai University. Before being transferred In 1968, the university established pharmacy and dentistry schools at a new campus apart from those received from Chulalongkorn University. On February 21, 1969, King Bhumibol Adulyadej declared the name of the university to be changed to Mahidol University (MU) () in honor of his father Prince Mahidol of Songkla who was also revered as the \"Father of Modern Thai Medicine\". The university bought a large suburban area known as Salaya in 1971 for its future developments. In the following years, the former faculties of Dentistry and Pharmacy were returned to Chulalongkorn University.\n\nKing Bhumibol expressed his will that MU should also expand to the Social Science fields, so the Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities was founded in 1969. The construction of Salaya campus began in 1975 but was soon delayed due the political situation and financial shortage. On July 23, 1983, the Salaya campus was officially opened. All education for freshman-year students was transferred to Salaya. Later academic developments of the university tended to deviate from traditional Health Science area to facilitate academic demands of the country and later developments were centered on the Salaya campus. The first internship college in Thailand was founded in MU in 1986. In 1999, the Ratchasuda College devoted solely to disabled persons was established. Athasit Vejjajiva, M.D., father of former Prime Minister of Thailand Abhisit Vejjajiva, had once been the president of MU from 1995 to 1999.\n\nIn 2002, MU expanded its campus to Kanchanaburi to offer its students more learning opportunities with rural communities as well as to Nakhon Sawan in 2004, accepting the first cohort of management students in 2004 and first cohort of arts students in 2005. The university also started building the Amnat Charoen Campus and was completed in 2009.\n\nMU is part of the Association of Southeast Asian Institutions of Higher Learning (ASAIHL) and is also a national research university as designated by the Ministry of Education under the prime ministership of Abhisit Vejjajiva In 2009, MU also joined the ASEAN University Network (AUN).\n\nMU entered the THES - QS World University Rankings in 2006 as 322nd in the world and 3rd in Thailand. In 2010, the university proceeded to the 228th in the world, 28th in Asia and as Thailand's top-ranked university according to Quacquarelli Symonds 2010 Asian Ranking, although some foreign ranking sources may provide different rankings. According to Times magazine, MU was ranked as one of the top 400 universities in the world and first in Thailand in 2012. The following year, Mahidol placed 61st out of 100 in the first-ever Times Higher Education Asia University Rankings.\n\nDue to the persistent focus on medical science, Mahidol has full professors appointed by the Thai monarch on academic merits and receives research grants/income from both the government and private sectors more than any other university. It has three hospitals, run independently by three different medical schools and is also affiliated with other medicare institutes. Mahidol has also produced more research papers published in international, peer-reviewed academic journals than all other Thai universities. Most of these papers have been related to medical sciences and public health.\n\nMahidol University International College (MUIC), the first international college in Thailand, offers a range of international undergraduate and graduate programs. Its newest division is Fine and Applied Arts which houses the Entertainment Media Program (EMP) and the Communication Design Program (CDP). EMP and CDP offer a Bachelor of Arts Degree, and EMP has 3 majors—Film, TV, or Animation.\n\nIn 2009, MU was selected to be a member of Thailand's National Research Universities by the Office of Higher Education Commission, Ministry of Education. The government has issued an emergency policy to develop the national research university to reach an international standard to promote Thailand as a central hub of Asian education, research and development. The Office of Higher Education Commission therefore organized the National Research University Initiative and Research Promotion. The cabinet has reached its resolution in May 2009 to approve the project under the budget of approximately $350 million, during the a 3-year period of 2010-2012 fiscal years.\n\nIn 2010, according to University Ranking by Academic Performance (URAP) it is the best university in Thailand and number 34 in Asia, but it has dropped to 351 in the world.\n\nIn 2015, Mahidol University was ranked as one of the World's Top 100 universities (ranked 62nd) at which to study medicine, according to the QS World University Rankings.\n\nIn 2018, Times Higher Education announced the World University Rankings 2019 which Mahidol was also ranked top university in Thailand. The university was ranked No. 97 on the list. \n\nMU is constructed of 17 faculties, 6 colleges, 9 research institutes and 6 campuses (3 provincial campuses) and offers a range of academic programs in three core academic areas; Health Sciences, Science & Technology and Social Sciences & Humanities. \nOver 70 centers and laboratories for specialized research fields provide new ground by using interdisciplinary and inter-institutional approach to research and postgraduate training, to meet the present and future needs of government and industry. The Mahidol University Applied and Technological Service Center provides knowledge-based services to both public and private sectors and also promotes and supports research. \nThe university directly runs 2 Faculties of Medicine which operate 5 hospitals and 1 Institute of Medicine affiliated to 4 hospitals (with Medical Education Centers for the Collaborative Project to Increase Production of Rural Doctor) as well as providing a location to train medical students for 1 other Faculty of Medicine and 2 other Colleges of Medicine. In total this produces around 850 medical doctors annually and serve as centers for comprehensive specialist medical training and patient care, with a total of around 4,250 beds serving nearly 4.4 million outpatients and 120,000 in-patients per year.\n\nThe Bangkok School of Tropical Medicine, the educational arm of the Faculty of Tropical Medicine, offers regular postgraduate programs, from graduate diploma to doctoral levels. The school is acknowledged and approved by the American Society for Tropical Medicine and Hygiene to be one of the eight schools in the world in which the student can get a diploma in tropical medicine. In addition, it is the only one school in which the student can learn about tropical diseases in the actual location of the tropics. The Faculty also operates the specialist Hospital for Tropical Diseases.\nA dental service unit at the Faculty of Dentistry and the Golden Jubilee Medical Center at Salaya serving about 340,000 patients a year. \nMahidol University Library and Information Center (MULIC) contains an automated library system with cyber-linked branches in different campuses; over 1,100,000 books, theses, research reports, and bound journals; 1,200 printed journals, 15,000 electronic journals and 16,000 electronic books; 13,000 audiovisual materials; hundreds of computer terminals and multimedia viewing equipment; a full range of specialized services including online reference services, multi-database searching and document delivery services. \nMahidol University Computing Network (MUC-Net) accommodates at least 500 local area networks, interconnecting more than 350 servers and 10,000 terminals/PCs in all departments throughout the university; many advanced networked computer systems inter-networked harmoniously; performing multicast and broadcast of data transmission be used within video conferences, distance learning, E-Learning, and IP-TV applications; offering sophisticated solution for Management Information System (MIS). \nThere is an ICT Campus: MU's 'Digital Library'; the Mahidol University Library and Information Center Network (MULINET), the Mahidol University Intranet; MUC-Net; Intra-phone, IP-phone, wireless campus network; multi-media and distance learning facilities; video-conferencing facilities; Management Information System (MIS); Center for Administrative Information System (MU-ADMIN-IS).\n\nMU also has a multi-purpose hall at the Salaya campus, completed in 2014 called 'Prince Mahidol Hall'. It is used for the graduation ceremony as well as music performances and conferences held at Mahidol University. The building can seat 2,016 people and was designed by A49 group. It is the main concert hall for the Thailand Philharmonic Orchestra (TPO).\n\n\n\nLocated in the capital city of Bangkok, MU has several campuses: one suburban campus and two older inner-city campuses in the Bangkok metropolitan area, along with a downtown high-rise office site for the College of Management, and provincial campuses in Kanchanaburi, Nakhon Sawan and Amnat Charoen provinces.\n\nThe former lands of the Rear Palace sectioned for the establishment of Siriraj Hospital are now MU Bangkok Noi campus. The campus extended into the two districts of Bangkok Noi and Bangplad. This dense campus houses the Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Faculty of Nursing, Faculty of Medical Technology, and the Faculty of Physical Therapy and Applied Movement Science. The academic setting includes personal and recreational facilities such as dormitories, cafeterias and sporting facilities.\n\nThis urban campus of spreads over three linked compounds in central Bangkok and houses Ramathibodi Hospital and the Hospital for Tropical Diseases, with MU’s traditional focus on medicine and the sciences actively pursued at the Faculties of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Public Health, Tropical Medicine, and Science. It also houses the Institute for Innovation and Development of Learning Process, the National Doping Control Center and the Mahidol University Computing Center, along with a range of supporting facilities and student accommodation.\n\nA suburban area, Salaya Campus is situated on a site of . The semi-rural setting in Nakhon Pathom Province, within easy reach of central Bangkok is the most advanced campus of the university. The garden-like decorations aid studying or working in tranquility without losing out on the opportunities available in the city. It houses the majority of academics and research departments at MU, and a range of supporting facilities including the Central Library, branch libraries, computer labs, the Office of the President, indoor stadiums, completed sports complex, the Student Union, shops and cafeterias, student dormitories and condominiums.\n\nThis downtown high-rise campus is the location of the College of Management Mahidol University (usually abbreviated to CMMU). This campus is the home for innovative and specialized graduate programs in management for Master's, post-Master and Ph.D levels. CMMU has partnered with many universities around the world and have attracted many international students to this campus, which include students from Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Japan, Portugal and Spain. Facilities include library, computer labs, study rooms, cafeteria, shops and gym.\n\nMahidol University Kanchanaburi in western Thailand has been announced since 2002 with the main objective of expanding higher education in the upcountry region, in order to increase local incomes, create occupational opportunities and improve the quality of life of rural people. An Administration Building, 2 lecture and Laboratory Buildings, 13 dormitories and associated infrastructures have been constructed on the space, in addition to 2 field stations for research in population studies and tropical medicine. The Faculty of Veterinary Science has opened the first hospital for livestock and wildlife of the country on this campus. Four greenhouses have been built for the Faculty of Science, Agriculture Science program. Within the next decade, MU is considering to expand the 6 offered undergraduate programs at present to become 12 programs and complete the new building facilities, including 6 additional dormitories to accommodate an expected enrolled students of 2,400.\n\nMU continues to develop two additional provincial campuses of in Nakhon Sawan Province, Mahidol University Nakhon Sawan in the northern Thailand, and in Amnat Charoen Province in the northeast. Nakhon Sawan campus, with an administration building and a lecture and laboratory building, is currently offer undergraduate program in management. It is expected that a science program will be offered in the future. The Amnat Charoen campus was completed in 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47328634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47328634", "title": "Media archaeology", "text": "Media archaeology\n\nMedia archaeology or archeology is a field that attempts to understand new and emerging media through close examination of the past, and especially through critical scrutiny of dominant progressivist narratives of popular commercial media such as film and television. Media archaeologists often evince strong interest in so-called dead media, noting that new media often revive and recirculate material and techniques of communication that had been lost, neglected, or obscured. Some media archaeologists are also concerned with the relationship between media fantasies and technological development, especially the ways in which ideas about imaginary or speculative media affect the media that actually emerge.\n\nThe theories and concepts of media archaeology have been primarily elaborated by the scholars and cultural critics Thomas Elsaesser, Erkki Huhtamo, Siegfried Zielinski, and Wolfgang Ernst, taking off from earlier work by Michel Foucault on the archaeology of knowledge, Walter Benjamin on the culture of mass media, and film scholars such as C.W. Ceram on the archaeology of cinema. Other writers who have contributed to the discipline's emergence include Eric Kluitenberg, Anne Friedberg, Friedrich Kittler, and Jonathan Crary. New media theorist Jussi Parikka defines media archaeology as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "6377418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6377418", "title": "Michael Krassa", "text": "Michael Krassa\n\nMichael Krassa is the chair of \"Human dimensions of Environmental Systems\" and a professor in political science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He specializes in the interactions between humans and their environments. His early work was on how one's neighbourhood of residence influenced political views and participation. This work evolved into a larger interest in the way that the social and physical setting in which a person lives affects behaviors and attitudes. In this broader mode of inquiry, his work pioneered the idea that behaviors depend on the social and physical context. His works on neighbourhoods in Illinois, California, Missouri, and modern planned places such as Poundbury (in the UK), Seaside, Florida (USA), Kentlands, Maryland (USA), and Celebration, Florida (USA) all demonstrate that the physical setting is an important determinant of the kinds of interpersonal connections a person forms, and interpersonal connections are a strong determinant of the way the people form political views.\n\nHis holistic work on suburban and urban life is not easily classified. He criticizes the New Urbanist planners for narrowness and incomplete planning, but recognizes the strong points such as planning for \"community\" and \"civic engagement.\" He highlights both the strengths and weaknesses of such communities, commending the efforts at building \"public spaces\" and the \"third place,\" but notes that, to date, most have failed to build either the racial or income diversity that was planned, and have not succeeded in creating the desired level of local employment within the community. However, he indicates that even the oldest of these are fairly new neighbourhoods, and that only time will tell.\n\nHe also notes the dangers of successful local communities. Warning about deviation, \"groupthink,\" and self-reinforcing values, he notes that the successful New Urbanist enterprises may be in danger of building communities that embody the worst of the small town instead (or in addition to) its best. His work shows that this is avoidable in a number of ways, one of which is building cities that have a large number of diverse, successful neighbourhoods.\n\nHis research on sustainable suburban development goes far beyond the political, focusing on how even far-flung suburbs might become more self-sufficient even if a majority of residents must commute some distance to work. He posits that commuter trains and trolleys provide benefits similar to remote offices, and how suburbs with retail and employment that draw on local residents are more successful than those lacking in such features. One difficulty, he notes, is that those employed in suburban jobs often commute there from a different suburb, mitigating much of the hypothesised benefit of jobs in the suburb. He indicates that the solution to this is social and political rather than design based.\n\nAs a political scientist, his work shows that both the participation and voting patterns in suburban neighbourhoods vary markedly with the way that the neighbourhood is integrated with itself, and with the networking patterns of its residents. Neighbourhoods with dense internal social networks are stronger and more able to resist crime, development, pollution, and other \"undesirable\" features. Neighbourhoods where most residents have few internal connections are loosely organized and threats such as crime will quickly lead to \"flight\" or departures. The fight or flight response applies to resident decisions about whether to remain or leave a neighbourhood facing change, and Krassa shows that network density and location, as well as neighbourhood type, are important determinants of resident choice.\n\nHis most influential work is an Op-Ed, \"The Bright Side of NIMBY,\" in which he argues that the \"Not In My Back Yard\" response by residents is a sign of a level of connections within a neighbourhood that in some ways demonstrates health. Although often NIMBY is seen as something bad, if the residents successfully organize to repel something they see as undesirable, it is a sign that there are interconnections within the neighbourhood that can produce desirable (as well as undesirable) consequences.\n\nHis other noteworthy finding is that the decline in voter turnout for local and state elections is most dramatic in areas that have the fewest interpersonal ties within the locale. As the proportion of a person's social network lay outside the locale in which one resides declines, the chance that one votes or otherwise participates in local affairs also declines. This is important because political scientists have noted the remarkable decline in voting at all levels but especially the local. Some political scientists have also noted the increasing \"nationalization\" of all elections—the idea that more and more the same issues are important everywhere. Krassa's findings may help explain this.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2484840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2484840", "title": "Mint Sauce (cartoon strip)", "text": "Mint Sauce (cartoon strip)\n\nMint Sauce is a fictional character in a cartoon strip of the same name, created and drawn by Jo Burt, and published in the monthly magazine \"Mountain Biking UK\".\n\nMishun H. Sugworth, better known to friends and foe alike as 'Mint Sauce', is a mountain biking sheep with a philosophical, often poetic outlook, who enjoys biking jaunts through the British countryside with his fellow animal cyclists. Indeed, in many strips it is the countryside which plays the leading role, often reducing the \"leading\" characters to mere counterpoint to the main theme. Burt's portrayal of landscape is heavily centred on an imagined England, incorporating elements of many southern English areas - principally the Sussex/Wessex Downs, Mendip and Chiltern Hills, although forays are sometimes made into more northerly ranges. Reading the cartoons one can't help but feel that, for Mint, revelling in the countryside is at least as important as riding the bike.\n\nOther characters featuring in the strip include Cattlegrid Coleman the Cow, Harrison the Rabbit, Oonagh Herwick (Mint's girlfriend), an anthropomorphic personification of Summer, Chipko Andolan and Death. Minor character appearances are made by a number of hills (The Mendip Brothers, a Cheviot etc.), elves (who alter trails to fox riders, not to be confused with trail pixies who build and improve trails), various squadrons of fighting aircraft (the best known of which is the Love Squadron, a collection of WW2 era propeller planes and biplanes, often seen in battle with more advanced jets, known as the Reality Squadron) and even the occasional human, who generally have negative roles.\n\nThe Mint Sauce strip first appeared in \"Bicycle Action\" in March 1988 and moved to \"MBUK\" about eighteen months later. Drawn in black and white half-page format it later became larger and moved to full colour as his popularity increased. As well as the cartoon strip there have been \"Mint Sauce\" calendars, T-shirts, stickers, posters, key-fobs and cycling jerseys, though Jo Burt's busy workload means that delivery times for these can be protracted.\n\n"}
{"id": "12718355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12718355", "title": "Mohsen Mostafavi", "text": "Mohsen Mostafavi\n\nMohsen Mostafavi (1954) is an Iranian-American architect and educator. He is the Dean and Alexander and Victoria Wiley Professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. He has been the Gale and Ira Drukier Dean of the College of Architecture, Art and Planning at Cornell University, and the Chairman of the Architectural Association School of Architecture in London.\n\nDean Mostafavi serves on the steering committee of the Aga Khan Award for Architecture, the board of the Van Alen Institute, and on numerous university committees including the Harvard University Committee on Common Spaces. He has served on the design committee of the London Development Agency (LDA), the RIBA Gold Medal, the Head of the Holcim Awards jury for Europe in 2005, a Member of the Global jury in 2006, a Member of the jury for North America in 2008, the Head of the jury for North America and is currently involved as a consultant on a number of international architectural and urban projects.\n\nMostafavi received a diploma in architecture from the Architectural Association in 1976 and undertook research on Counter-Reformation urban history at the Universities of Essex and Cambridge. Previously, he was Director of the Master of Architecture I Program at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design. Mostafavi has also taught at the University of Pennsylvania, Cambridge University, and the Frankfurt Academy of Fine Arts (Städelschule).\n\nHis research and design projects have been published in many journals, including \"The Architectural Review, AAFiles, Arquitectura, Bauwelt, Casabella, Centre\", and \"Daidalos\". Some of his publications include: \"On Weathering: The Life of Buildings in Time\" (with David Leatherbarrow, MIT, 1993) recipient of the American Institute of Architects prize for writing on architectural theory;\" Approximations\" (AA/MIT, 2002); \"Surface Architecture\" (MIT, 2002) recipient of the CICA Bruno Zevi Book Award; \"Logique Visuelle\" (Idea Books, 2003), \"Landscape Urbanism: A Manual for the Machinic Landscape\" (AA Publications, 2004), \"Structure as Space\" (AA Publications, 2006), \"Ecological Urbanism\" (Lars Müller Publishers 2010), and \"Nicholas Hawksmoor: London Churches\" (Lars Müller Publishers 2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "48456603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48456603", "title": "NOTECHS", "text": "NOTECHS\n\nNOTECHS is a system used to assess the non-technical (social and cognitive) skills of crew members in the aviation industry. Introduced in the late 1990s, the system has been widely used by airlines during crew selection process, picking out individuals who possess capable skills that are not directly related to aircraft controls or systems. In aviation, 70 percent of all accidents are induced from pilot error, lack of communication and decision making being two contributing factors to these accidents. NOTECHS assess and provide feedback on the performance of pilots' social and cognitive skills to help minimize pilot error and enhance safety in the future. NOTECHS system also aims to improve the Crew Resource Management training system.\n\nTwo main non-technical skills that transfer to the aircraft are social and cognitive skills. Social skills are behaviors mostly done verbally through communication, allowing crew members to discuss possible conflicts and work together to resolve problems. It heavily emphasizes teamwork, a critical component for an effective operation of aircraft which impacts aviation safety. Examples of communication between crew members include acknowledging commands, conducting briefings, and conveying information, all essential components for a safe and efficient flight. The Federal Aviation Administration also announced that important areas of communication improvements include pre-flight briefings, and landing procedures. Cognitive skills are mental processes occurred for gaining situation awareness and selecting decisions, it includes tasks such as planning, prioritizing and decision making. This set of skill cannot be observed directly, but it can be inferred by examiners when pilot state a decision, an option has taken place. A pilot with a strong cognitive mind is more proficient in emergency situations, having a bigger mental capacity to assess the situation and monitor progression on goals.\nThe framework for NOTECHS is divided into three different levels. \n\nSocial and Cognitive skills are the main non-technical skills evaluated. Both can be broken down into four different categories:\n\nElements are subset of a category. For example, the elements under Co-operation are: Team-building and maintaining, Considering Others, Supporting others, and Conflict Solving. All these elements tie in with the theme of being a group, communicating and cooperating as a team. The test subjects are evaluated in the following elements:\nNOTECHS system added the behavior markers under each element in order to \"assist the examiner to describe the observed behavior in standardized and objective phraseology\" It gives an indication whether a specific action in accordance to the element projects a positive or a negative impact in the overall skill. \nIndividuals rated through NOTECHS are given feedback on their skill performance. The results provide an indication on which categories they thrive in, and sections that need improvements. Members are evaluated in each structure element and given a rating on a five-point scale. The scale ranges from very good, good, acceptable, poor, very poor. In addition, a final overall rating is required in each element, indicating whether it was acceptable or unacceptable.\n\nTo ensure crew members are given fair and non-accidental evaluation, the Joint Aviation Authorities implemented five operating rules to follow while using the NOTECHS for assessment.\n\nAs an assessment tool, NOTECHS system is heavily used to evaluate crew resource management performance. CRM is designed to teach pilots about cognitive and interpersonal skills for an effective, safe flight; NOTECHS underlay as a standard guideline for crew members to follow. As NOTECHS evaluation system is based on standardized conditions of acceptable skills and behaviors organized by practitioners, it aims to improve by whether the provided guidance actually enhances the performance of crew members in the work environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "26039828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26039828", "title": "National Association of Graduate-Professional Students", "text": "National Association of Graduate-Professional Students\n\nThe National Association of Graduate-Professional Students (NAGPS) represents postgraduates at US universities. It was formed in 1986 and held the first national conference in 1987. It is formed by affiliation from student representative bodies across the United States and serves as \"the umbrella organization representing all the graduate and professional students in the country.\", through representation, lobbying, contribution to public policy debate, initiating communication between relevant parties and bringing key issues and potential solutions to wider audiences.\n\nThe idea of a national graduate student association was discussed by graduate students from four schools attending the First National Teaching Assistant Training Conference at The Ohio State University in the spring of 1986. This group called the first national meeting in March 1987 at Washington State University. The group became the National Association of Graduate-Professional Students (NAGPS) at this meeting. A conference coordinator, information exchange coordinator, and six regional coordinators were selected. Since then, the NAGPS has developed a legislative and advocacy platform, hosts conferences and events annually, and provides services to members. Each year the NAGPS advocates its legislative priorities to federal policymakers on behalf of its constituents. The association's 30th Anniversary National Conference was hosted at Stony Brook University in November 2016.\n\nNAGPS has a threefold mission for the graduate and professional student community in the United States of America: (1) develop, sustain, and expand a member network that connects graduate and professional students across the United States to facilitate the sharing of information, resources, and best practices, (2) empower our members to successfully serve their constituents, and (3) amplify students’ voices to campus, local, state, and federal policymakers.\n\nThe NAGPS is governed by a National Board of Directors, and five Regional Board of Directors.\n\nNational Board of Directors\n\nThe National Board of Directors is composed of an Executive Committee, Advocacy Board, and Outreach Board.\n\nThe Executive Committee consists of the President & CEO, Vice President, Director of Finance & CFO, Director of Communications & CCO, Director of Administration & CIO, Director of Legislative Affairs, Director of Outreach, Director of Relations, and the Immediate Past President.\n\nThe Advocacy Board consists of a Social Justice Advocate, International Student Concerns Advocate, and an Employment Concerns Advocate.\n\nEach of the five Regional Chairs has a seat on the National Board of Directors. The Outreach Board Consists of the Northeast Regional Chair, Southeast Regional Chair, South Central Regional Chair, West Regional Chair, and Midwest Regional Chair.\n\nRegional Board of Directors\n\nThe regional boards of the NAGPS are divided by Northeast Region, Southeast Region, South Central Region, West Region, and Midwest Region. The location of a university determines which region it is a member of. Each region has a Regional Chair, who subsequently sits on the National Board of Directors as a voting member. The regions consist of a Chair, Vice Chair, Director of Outreach, Director of Communications, Director of Legislative Affairs, Employment Concerns Advocate, Social Justice Advocate, and International Student Concerns Advocate.\n\nThe NAGPS hosts conferences and summits each year. The National Conference is the Association's flagship event. The National Conference is where the association's elections are held, and where their advocacy and legislative platforms are decided. The National Conference consists of presentations, guest speakers, entertainment, and networking opportunities.\n\nIn March and September, the NAGPS hosts its Spring and Fall Advocacy Summits and Legislative Action Days. The Advocacy Summit is a two day seminar, and Legislative Action Days are when attendees meet with policy makers on Capitol Hill.\n\nDuring the Summer, the NAGPS hosts its Leadership Summit. The Leadership Summit is designed to train newly elected leaders to best serve their constituents at their home universities. Additionally, each of the five regional boards hosts a regional conference. Like the National Conference, this is where the regional membership gathers to decide on regional business.\n\nThe NAGPS advocates for higher education policy issues. These include open access for federally funded research, higher education funding, the reunification of student loan interest rates, international student visa reform, and policies aimed at deterring sexual assault on college campuses.\n\nAdvocacy campaigns established by the NAGPS include Fall and Spring Legislative Action Days, national Call Congress Campaigns, the Grads Have Debt 2 campaign, and campaigns advocating for the domestic renewal of international student F1 visas.\n\nCurrent Leadership\n\n2017 National Board of Directors\n\n\nPast Leadership\n\n2016 National Board of Directors\n\n\nNAGPS empowers students and student organizations by providing resources, information and leadership.\n\nLeadership\n\nThrough annual national and regional conferences, NAGPS organizes graduate and professional students and organizations.\n\nResearch\n\nThe 2000 National Doctoral Program Survey funded by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation gathered information on the educational experiences and outcome of nearly 33,000 in the U.S. and Canada. \n\nAdvocacy\n\nMembers of Congress consult NAGPS regularly. NAGPS actively works to preserve and expand federal student aid and other governmental programs and policies that benefit graduate and professional students. NAGPS sponsors Legislative Action Days each February and October. NAGPS organizes students to address graduate & professional concerns to their members on Capitol Hill during Legislative Action Days.\n\nDiscounts\n\nNAGPS provides discounts and services to members. This includes discounts on health and auto insurance, periodicals, research resources, travel services, among others.\n\nAwareness\n\nNAGPS media relations have improved the image of graduate students throughout the United States, via mainstream and campus media. Each April, NAGPS sponsors Graduate & Professional Student Appreciation Week in cooperation with sister organizations in Canada, Australia, Russia and the United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "563700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563700", "title": "Newgrounds", "text": "Newgrounds\n\nNewgrounds (collectively Newgrounds.com, Inc.) is an American online entertainment and social media website and company. It hosts user-generated content such as gaming, filming, audio and artwork composition in four respective website categories. While AOL and Geocities had statically hosted user-generated content, Newgrounds provided visitor-driven voting and ranking of user-generated animations. \n\nThe site's founder and owner, Thomas \"Tom\" Fulp, founded the site and company in 1995 and produces in-house content over at the headquarters and offices, based in the Glenside neighborhood of Cheltenham Township, Pennsylvania.\n\nUser-generated content can be uploaded and categorized into either one of the site’s four web portals: \"Games\", \"Movies\", \"Audio\", and \"Art\". A submission entered undergoes the process termed the \"Blam-And-Protect\" system, where it can be critiqued and rated from other users (up to 5 stars) or reviewed by users. Total scores succeeding judgement determine if whether the content will \"saved\"(added onto the database) or \"blammed\"(deleted but still saved as per \"Obituaries\" section). \n\nArt and audio composition is categorized in a relatively different method called \"Scouting\". Alike the \"Blam-And-Protect\" system, it filters out stolen content, spam, or prohibited material online via users and site moderators (referred as \"Mods\"). When an individual is scouted, its submitted property becomes virtually visible to everyone else, and then given the privilege to also scout authors.\n\nSubmissions are organized in the general \"Portal\", where it accompanies the genres into a single place to view authored material. It also stores throwback content in earlier years, statuses of judged submissions, and current and past daily winners on display.\n\nContent and context are liable to be reported for review to the Mods and staff members by flagging it for plausible violations to the site's guidelines, if regarded by multiple users. The homepage of Newgrounds includes featured submissions from each category, as well online awards and honors to users whose submission that fall under the site’s requirements to earn it. Adult-oriented content is general in nature of the site, but restricted only to users ages 18 and up though no safeguard is subject to assure this. \n\nOnline competitions and contests are open at some times, where an individual can win and receive prizes presented by either a recognized user or staff member upon following a given theme.\n\nThe site includes a \"Community\" portal, where users can be able to communicate with others through various Internet forums. Such forums can be locked if it is in violation. Another communication system developed on the site, termed \"Private Messaging\" and abbreviated as PM, is also granted, similar to the service of email where users can send messages via other users. A live chat room is also available.\n\nIn 1991, at the age 13, Tom Fulp launched a Neo Geo fanzine under the name \"New Ground\" sending issues to approximately 100 members of a club originating on the internet in Prodigy. Fulp launched a website as \"New Ground Remix\" using a hosting service, increasing popularity in the summer of 1996 after BBS games \"Club a Seal\" and \"Assassin\" were created by Fulp while a student at Drexel University, Pennsylvania. Fulp created the sequels to his creations, as games Club a Seal II and Assassin II,\" along with the decision to develop a separate hosting site, titled as \"New Ground Atomix\".\n\nFulp began experimenting with Macromedia Flash, along with programming a Flash-compatible homepage that was later introduced to his secondary site, \"Telebubby Fun Land\", and was later released. Fulp later merged his two websites to form another website with the name \"Newgrounds\", leading to him to change hosts to accommodate the increasing traffic, and started selling merchandise to pay for the website's hosting bills. Introducing banner ads to pay for growing payments in 1999, Fulp partnered with Troma, who hosted the site in exchange for a share of ad revenue. A chat room and message board was added onto the website, which allowed people visiting the website to interact with each other. Many users had begun submitting their own Flash creations to Fulp, in which he decided in a portion of the site called \"The Portal.\" A friend of Fulp named Ross developed the “Grounds Gold System”, which allowed users to gain points for visiting the site and voting submissions online. Ad revenue had increased, so Ross was hired, starting development of an current automated Portal, which would allow users to submit their own generated content to the website.\n\nAfter the dot-com bubble collapsed, Newgrounds struggled in paying its hosting costs. The affiliation with Troma ended in 2003 and Newgrounds switched to another bandwidth provider, which significantly reduced hosting costs. 2004 saw Newgrounds recovering from the online market crash, and the Numa Numa Dance viral phenomenon made its debut on Newgrounds near the end of the year, and became one of the first viral videos on the internet. Medals, the equivalent of in-game achievements, were introduced for the first time through the API software in 2009, soon followed by a \"Sharing\" component that would allow content to be distributed within games, such as custom level designs. The Art Portal in its complete form was launched in June of the same year, along with the renovation of the company’s headquarters.\n\nIn 2011, the Newgrounds Annual Tournament of Animation (NATA) began as a 4–6 month long animation competition on Newgrounds sponsored by Adobe. In 2012, Newgrounds published their first mobile game, titled \"GroundCats\", on iOS. That same year, major changes to the website included the launch of the video player, allowing users to publish movies that were not in .SWF format for the first time, and support for HTML5-coded games, which meant users were no longer limited to submitting movies and games made in Flash. In 2013, the site suffered heavily through financial issues and closed down its online market following the year after. Platform mobile game \"Geometry Dash\" developed by RobTop Games allowed songs from Newgrounds to be used in levels made with the level editor with the release of its 1.9 update in 2014. The Audio Portal consisted of submitted copyrighted songs for use in the game, leading to Nightcore, along with mashups, banned as a result.\n\nAn similar issue of copyrighted concurred in 2016, when the site began receiving complaints that old content and files contained unlicensed commercial music and images, resulting in several submissions being removed by moderators and staff. In 2018, new servers and video-encoding-software were unveiled, along with developments for the site to be ad-free, and improve page performance.\n"}
{"id": "4710872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4710872", "title": "OCLC PICA", "text": "OCLC PICA\n\nOCLC PICA was a library automation systems and services company which originated from a co-operation of the Pica Foundation (\"Stichting Pica\") of the Netherlands and the non-profit library company OCLC Online Computer Library Center (OCLC) of the U.S. In 2007, OCLC acquired the shares of OCLC PICA it did not already hold to become the sole owner of OCLC PICA. By the end of 2007, OCLC PICA lost its separate identity and was integrated with OCLC under the OCLC brand.\n\nThe Pica Foundation was created in 1969 as an initiative of the Koninklijke Bibliotheek, the national library of the Netherlands, and several university libraries, in order to advance the Dutch Central Catalog (Nederlandse Centrale Catalogus). The acronym PICA stands for Project for Integrated Catalogue Automation. \n\nIn December 1997 Pica became part-owned by OCLC, and this was further consolidated in January 2002, at which time OCLC PICA also became responsible for all of OCLC's activities in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. At the time, OCLC held 60% of the shares in OCLC PICA, while the Pica foundation held 40%. In 2005 OCLC PICA acquired Sisis Information Systems of Germany and the Fretwell-Downing Informatics Group (developer of the VDX interlibrary loan software) of the UK. In 2007, OCLC acquired the remaining shares of OCLC PICA to become the sole shareholder of OCLC PICA.\n\nOCLC PICA / OCLC EMEA employed over 200 people. \n\nOCLC PICA software is used by the Netherlands union catalog, several German library consortia (including GBV, Hebis and SWB), the Australian national library, the French union catalog SUDOC and many other libraries. Sisis and Fretwell-Downing also have many notable customers in Germany, the UK and worldwide. \n\n(This information is based on a rough translation of the German Wikipedia page 'PICA'.) \n\n"}
{"id": "46394359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46394359", "title": "Open Rev.", "text": "Open Rev.\n\nOpen Rev. is a web-based platform for open discussion and annotation of research publications and related material. Researchers can comment directly on text, formulas, and images in research papers, post related questions and answer questions posed by each other. Open Rev's web-based PDF viewer has been implemented to encourage public discussion and open peer review of scientific publications. User contributions are licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported.\n\nOpen Rev. was a participant of the Harvard i-Lab Venture Incubation Program 2014 and has won awards from the Harvard Institute for Learning and Teaching and Education Innovation Pitch Competition.\n\nOpen Rev. was created by Erik Bauch and Georg Kucsko, currently PhD candidates in the Harvard Physics program, to foster public and open discussions on research papers. It officially launched in 2014. As of 2015, the user base has risen to over 1000 participants and includes institutions such as Harvard, MIT, Northeastern University, Royal Holloway University of London, and Uppsala Universitet.\n\nOpen Rev. has been featured in Harvard Physics, the Harvard Gazette and the Harvard alumni magazine, Colloquy. In an interview in Colloquy, co-founder Erik Bauch explained, “Up until now scientific discussions usually occurred at conferences, in journal club, or in hallways on the way to lunch. With Open Rev. we are trying to motivate people to take some of these discussions online and share their knowledge with the whole scientific community.”\n\n"}
{"id": "2147063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2147063", "title": "Papua New Guinea University of Technology", "text": "Papua New Guinea University of Technology\n\nThe Papua New Guinea University of Technology or 'Unitech' is located 8 km outside Lae, in the Morobe Province of Papua New Guinea. It has 13 teaching departments and 3 affiliated colleges.\n\nIt is the second largest university in PNG after its 'sister' university the University of Papua New Guinea in Port Moresby. While UPNG concentrates on the arts, pure sciences, law and medicine, Unitech focuses on research in technological or applied sciences. It is the only technological university in the South Pacific, outside of Australia and New Zealand.\n\nUnitech was created as the PNG Institute of Higher Technical Education in May 1965 and was located in Port Moresby. In 1968 it moved to a 2 square kilometre campus outside of Lae and in March 1970 was renamed the PNG Institute of Technology. The institution achieved its present status in August 1973 when it became a university proper.\n\nThe university has grown from just 37 students in 1967 to over 2,000 currently each year. By the end of 2003 Unitech had awarded 10,122 degrees, diplomas and certificates to students mainly from PNG and neighbouring Pacific countries.\n\nUnitech offers courses in the following fields:\n\nUnitech has a students' soccer club named Unitech Lae FC.The club has achieved a lot within the last 15 years since entering the competition in LSA and now back to LFA. One of the major achievements of the club was being the first PNG club to represent PNG at the Oceania Football Confederation (OFC) in 2001 in Port Moresby. Furthermore, UFC has produced some former and current PNG representative players in the national team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52657243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52657243", "title": "Paul Epp", "text": "Paul Epp\n\nPaul Epp (born 1949 in La Glace, Alberta) is a Canadian professor and industrial designer from Toronto, Ontario.\n\nHe is a graduate of Sheridan College School of Design. Since 1993 he has been a professor of industrial design at OCAD University in Toronto.\n\nEpp has focused on the use of wood in design. His work shows a strong influence from Scandinavian design of the 20th century.\n\nHe has received the Best of Canada Design Award in 1998. He is also represented at the Canadian Museum of History in Ottawa, Ontario.\n\nPaul Epp is an elected member of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts (RCA).\n\n"}
{"id": "89062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89062", "title": "Peabody Award", "text": "Peabody Award\n\nThe George Foster Peabody Awards (or simply Peabody Awards) program, named for the American businessman and philanthropist George Peabody, honor the most powerful, enlightening, and invigorating stories in television, radio, and online media. Programs are recognized in seven categories: news, entertainment, documentaries, children's programming, education, interactive programming, and public service. Peabody Award winners include radio and television stations, networks, online media, producing organizations, and individuals from around the world.\n\nEstablished in 1940 by a committee of the National Association of Broadcasters, the Peabody Award was created to honor excellence in radio broadcasting. It is the oldest major electronic media award in the United States and some say the most prestigious, sometimes competing for recognition with the Alfred I. duPont–Columbia University Award. Final Peabody Award winners are selected unanimously by the program's Board of Jurors.\nReflecting excellence in quality storytelling, rather than popularity or commercial success, Peabody Awards are distributed annually to 30 out of 60 finalists culled from more than 1,000 entries. Because submissions are accepted from a wide variety of sources and styles, deliberations seek \"Excellence On Its Own Terms\".\n\nEach entry is evaluated on the achievement of standards established within its own context. Entries, for which a fee ( for radio) is required, are self-selected by those making submissions.\n\nIn 1938, the National Association of Broadcasters formed a committee to recognize outstanding achievement in radio broadcasting. Committee member Lambdin Kay, public-service director for WSB radio in Atlanta, Georgia, at the time, is credited for creating the award, named for businessman and philanthropist George Foster Peabody, who donated the funds that made the awards possible. Fellow WSB employee Lessie Smithgall introduced Lambdin to John E. Drewry, of the University of Georgia's Henry W. Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication, who endorsed the idea. The Peabody Award was established in 1940 with the Grady College of Journalism as its permanent home.\n\nThe Peabody Awards were originally issued only for radio programming, but television awards were introduced in 1948. In the late 1990s additional categories for material distributed via the World Wide Web were added. Materials created solely for theatrical motion picture release are not eligible.\n\nThe Peabody Awards judging process is unusually rigorous. Each year, more than 1,000 entries are evaluated by some 30 committees composed of a number of faculty, staff, and students from the University of Georgia and other higher education institutions across the country. Each committee is charged with screening or listening to a small number of entries and delivering written recommendations to the Peabody Board of Jurors, a ~17-member panel of scholars, critics, and media-industry professionals. Board members discuss recommended entries as well as their own selections at intensive preliminary meetings in California and Texas. The Board convenes at the University of Georgia in early April for final screenings and deliberations. Each entrant is judged on its own merit, and only unanimously selected programs receive a Peabody Award. For many years, there was no set number of awards issued. However, in 2016 the program instituted the Peabody 30, representing the best programs out of a field of 60 nominees. Prior to this, the all-time record for Peabody Award recipients in a single year was 46 in 2013.\n\n\nEach spring, the Peabody Awards Board of Jurors announce award recipients for work released during the previous year. Traditionally, the winners' announcements have been made via a simple press release and/or a press conference. In recent years, however, organizers have also taken to television to reveal some Peabody Award recipients in an effort to expand public awareness of the awards. An April 2014 segment of \"CBS This Morning\" included an announcement of 2013 Peabody winners. In April 2015, the 2014 Peabodys were revealed over an 8-day period, with the entertainment-based recipients revealed on ABC's \"Good Morning America\".\n\nFormal presentation of the Peabody Awards are traditionally held in late May or early June. For many years, the awards were given during a luncheon in New York City. The ceremony moved to a red carpet evening event for the first time on May 31, 2015, with Fred Armisen serving as host. Several famous names have served as Peabody Awards ceremony hosts over the years, among them Walter Cronkite, Lesley Stahl, Jackie Gleason, Jon Stewart, Morley Safer, Craig Ferguson, Larry King, and Ira Glass. From 2014-2016, the Peabody Awards aired on a tape-delayed basis on the TV channel Pivot. On June 2, 2017, a television special of the 76th Annual Peabody Awards Ceremony was broadcast on both PBS and FUSION networks.\n\nThe Peabody Awards Collection is the flagship of The Walter J. Brown Media Archive & Peabody Awards Collection. The archives are housed in the Richard B. Russell Building Special Collections Libraries on the north campus of The University of Georgia. The mission of the Peabody Archive is to preserve, protect, and provide access to the moving image and sound materials that reflect the collective memory of broadcasting and the history of the state of Georgia and its people. The collection contains nearly every entry for the first major broadcast award given in the United States. Entries began in 1940 for radio and 1948 for television, and at least 1,000 new entries are received every year—programs created by local, national, and international producers. The collection provides a cultural cross-section of television from its infancy to the present day, featuring news, documentary, entertainment, educational, and children's programming. Once judging is complete, all entries are moved to the Main Library for in-depth cataloging, access, and long-term preservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "37998886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37998886", "title": "Practitioner research", "text": "Practitioner research\n\nPractitioner Research refers to research and/or workplace research such as evaluation performed by individuals who also work in a professional field as opposed to being full-time academic researchers. Practitioner research developed as a recognized type of research in the last quarter of the 20th century. In this context, 'practitioner' means someone who delivers public services, such as a nurse, teacher, advice worker, probation officer, counselor or social worker. Practitioner research developed in disciplinary silos, but by the turn of the century it had been recognized that all disciplines could approach practitioner research in broadly the same way.\n\nFor a practitioner, doing research alongside practice can assist with one or more of the following:\nIt is also held to improve the quality of the practitioner-researcher's practice.\n\nPractitioner research has two categories: \n\n"}
{"id": "42051761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42051761", "title": "Pre-primary education in Mauritius", "text": "Pre-primary education in Mauritius\n\nPre-primary education in Mauritius is the stage of education to be completed prior to the start of primary school, which is compulsory for all students of ages 3 to 5 in Mauritius. The pre-primary programme of study lasts for three years, termed as Year 1, Year 2, and Year 3. Upon completion of the pre-primary years of study, students may enter into primary school, which continues to the award of the Certificate of Primary Education for students who successfully complete primary school studies with passing marks on the final exams.\n\n"}
{"id": "21189546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21189546", "title": "Reading law", "text": "Reading law\n\nReading law is the method by which persons in common law countries, particularly the United States, entered the legal profession before the advent of law schools. This usage specifically refers to a means of entering the profession (although in England it is still customary to say that a university undergraduate is \"reading\" a course, which may be law or any other). \"Reading the law\" consists of an extended internship or apprenticeship under the tutelage or mentoring of an experienced lawyer. A small number of U.S. jurisdictions still permit this practice today.\n\nIn colonial America, as in Britain in that day, law schools did not exist at all until Litchfield Law School was founded in 1773. Within a few years following the American Revolution, some universities such as the College of William and Mary and the University of Pennsylvania established a \"Chair in Law\". However, the holder of this position would be the sole purveyor of legal education for the institution, and would give lectures designed to supplement, rather than replace, an apprenticeship. Even as a handful of law schools were established, they remained uncommon in the United States until the late nineteenth century. Most people who entered the legal profession did so through an apprenticeship which incorporated a period of study under the supervision of an experienced attorney. This usually encompassed the reading of the works considered at the time to be the most authoritative on the law, such as Edward Coke's \"Institutes of the Lawes of England\", William Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\", and similar texts.\n\nThe scholastic independence of the law student is evident from the following advice of Abraham Lincoln to a young man in 1855:\n\nReading law to become an attorney would be the norm, until the 1890s, when the American Bar Association (which had been formed in 1878) began pressing states to limit admission to the Bar to those persons who had satisfactorily completed several years of post-graduate institutional instruction. In 1941, James F. Byrnes became the last (July 8, 1941) Justice appointed to the Supreme Court of the United States who had never attended college or law school, and he was the penultimate appointee who had been admitted to practice by reading law. Byrnes was followed by Robert H. Jackson, who was commissioned just three days later (July 11, 1941) and had also been admitted to the practice of law by reading, although he had attended a law school for less than one year (instead of the customary three to four years, and had not graduated).\n\nUnlike their U.S. counterparts, early lawyers of Canada did get some legal training, but not within a higher institution like a school. Following English tradition, early Canadian lawyers trained by \"learning law\" through another lawyer. To practice fully, these legal students (articled clerk) are required to pass a bar exam and be admitted to the bar.\n\nReading law was also used in Ontario to train lawyers until 1949. People training to become lawyers need not attend school, but they were asked to apprentice or article with a practicing lawyer. Changes in the late 1940s ended the practice.\n\nIn Quebec, civil law required formal education; and in Nova Scotia, lawyers were trained by attending university.\n\nA small number of jurisdictions still permit this. In the states of California, Vermont, Virginia, and Washington, an applicant who has not attended law school may take the bar exam after reading law under a judge or practicing attorney for an extended period of time. The required time varies. Exact rules vary as well; for example, Virginia does not allow the reader to be gainfully employed by the tutoring lawyer, while Washington requires just that. The State of New York requires that applicants who are reading law must have at least one year of law school study and Maine requires applicants to have completed at least two-thirds of a law degree. Such persons are sometimes called country lawyers or county-seat lawyers. In 2013, 60 people became lawyers this way as opposed to 84,000 via law schools.\n"}
{"id": "25867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25867", "title": "Richard Dawkins", "text": "Richard Dawkins\n\nClinton Richard Dawkins, (born 26 March 1941) is an English ethologist, evolutionary biologist, and author. He is an emeritus fellow of New College, Oxford, and was the University of Oxford's Professor for Public Understanding of Science from 1995 until 2008.\n\nDawkins first came to prominence with his 1976 book \"The Selfish Gene\", which popularised the gene-centred view of evolution and introduced the term \"meme\". With his book \"The Extended Phenotype\" (1982), he introduced into evolutionary biology the influential concept that the phenotypic effects of a gene are not necessarily limited to an organism's body, but can stretch far into the environment. In 2006, he founded the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science.\n\nDawkins is known as an outspoken atheist. He has claimed in interviews to be an agnostic about many matters of religious faith, instead endorsing reason. He is well known for his criticism of creationism and intelligent design. In \"The Blind Watchmaker\" (1986), he argues against the watchmaker analogy, an argument for the existence of a supernatural creator based upon the complexity of living organisms. Instead, he describes evolutionary processes as analogous to a \"blind\" watchmaker, in that reproduction, mutation, and selection are unguided by any designer. In \"The God Delusion\" (2006), Dawkins contends that a supernatural creator almost certainly does not exist and that religious faith is a delusion.\n\nDawkins has been awarded many prestigious academic and writing awards, and he makes regular television, radio, and Internet appearances, predominantly discussing his books, his atheism, and his ideas and opinions as a public intellectual.\n\nDawkins was born in Nairobi, then in British Kenya, on 26 March 1941. He is the son of Jean Mary Vyvyan (\"née\" Ladner; born 1916) and Clinton John Dawkins (1915–2010), who was an agricultural civil servant in the British Colonial Service in Nyasaland (present-day Malawi). His father was called up into the King's African Rifles during World War II and returned to England in 1949, when Dawkins was eight. His father had inherited a country estate, Over Norton Park in Oxfordshire, which he farmed commercially. Dawkins considers himself English and lives in Oxford, England. Dawkins has a younger sister.\n\nBoth his parents were interested in natural sciences, and they answered Dawkins's questions in scientific terms. Dawkins describes his childhood as \"a normal Anglican upbringing\". He embraced Christianity until halfway through his teenage years, at which point he concluded that the theory of evolution was a better explanation for life's complexity, and ceased believing in a god. Dawkins states: \"The main residual reason why I was religious was from being so impressed with the complexity of life and feeling that it had to have a designer, and I think it was when I realised that Darwinism was a far superior explanation that pulled the rug out from under the argument of design. And that left me with nothing.\"\n\nFrom 1954 to 1959 Dawkins attended Oundle School in Northamptonshire, an English public school with a distinct Church of England flavour, where he was in Laundimer house. While at Oundle, Dawkins read Bertrand Russell's \"Why I Am Not a Christian\" for the first time. He studied zoology at Balliol College, Oxford, graduating in 1962; while there, he was tutored by Nobel Prize-winning ethologist Nikolaas Tinbergen. He continued as a research student under Tinbergen's supervision, receiving his MA and Doctor of Philosophy degrees by 1966, and remained a research assistant for another year. Tinbergen was a pioneer in the study of animal behaviour, particularly in the areas of instinct, learning, and choice; Dawkins's research in this period concerned models of animal decision-making.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1969, he was an assistant professor of zoology at the University of California, Berkeley. During this period, the students and faculty at UC Berkeley were largely opposed to the ongoing Vietnam War, and Dawkins became involved in the anti-war demonstrations and activities. He returned to the University of Oxford in 1970 as a lecturer. In 1990, he became a reader in zoology. In 1995, he was appointed Simonyi Professor for the Public Understanding of Science at Oxford, a position that had been endowed by Charles Simonyi with the express intention that the holder \"be expected to make important contributions to the public understanding of some scientific field\", and that its first holder should be Richard Dawkins. He held that professorship from 1995 until 2008.\n\nSince 1970, he has been a fellow of New College, Oxford, and he is now an emeritus fellow. He has delivered many lectures, including the Henry Sidgwick Memorial Lecture (1989), the first Erasmus Darwin Memorial Lecture (1990), the Michael Faraday Lecture (1991), the T. H. Huxley Memorial Lecture (1992), the Irvine Memorial Lecture (1997), the Sheldon Doyle Lecture (1999), the Tinbergen Lecture (2004), and the Tanner Lectures (2003). In 1991, he gave the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures for Children on \"Growing Up in the Universe\". He also has edited several journals, and has acted as editorial advisor to the \"Encarta Encyclopedia\" and the \"Encyclopedia of Evolution\". He is listed as a senior editor and a columnist of the Council for Secular Humanism's \"Free Inquiry\" magazine, and has been a member of the editorial board of \"Skeptic\" magazine since its foundation.\n\nDawkins has sat on judging panels for awards as diverse as the Royal Society's Faraday Award and the British Academy Television Awards, and has been president of the Biological Sciences section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. In 2004, Balliol College, Oxford, instituted the Dawkins Prize, awarded for \"outstanding research into the ecology and behaviour of animals whose welfare and survival may be endangered by human activities\". In September 2008, he retired from his professorship, announcing plans to \"write a book aimed at youngsters in which he will warn them against believing in 'anti-scientific' fairytales.\"\n\nIn 2011, Dawkins joined the professoriate of the New College of the Humanities, a new private university in London, established by A. C. Grayling, which opened in September 2012.\n\nDawkins is best known for his popularisation of the gene as the principal unit of selection in evolution; this view is most clearly set out in his books:\n\nDawkins has consistently been sceptical about non-adaptive processes in evolution (such as spandrels, described by Gould and Lewontin) and about selection at levels \"above\" that of the gene. He is particularly sceptical about the practical possibility or importance of group selection as a basis for understanding altruism.\nThis behaviour appears at first to be an evolutionary paradox, since helping others costs precious resources and decreases one's own fitness. Previously, many had interpreted this as an aspect of group selection: individuals are doing what is best for the survival of the population or species as a whole. British evolutionary biologist W. D. Hamilton used gene-frequency analysis in his inclusive fitness theory to show how hereditary altruistic traits can evolve if there is sufficient genetic similarity between actors and recipients of such altruism (including close relatives). Hamilton's inclusive fitness has since been successfully applied to a wide range of organisms, including humans. Similarly, Robert Trivers, thinking in terms of the gene-centred model, developed the theory of reciprocal altruism, whereby one organism provides a benefit to another in the expectation of future reciprocation. Dawkins popularised these ideas in \"The Selfish Gene\", and developed them in his own work. In June 2012, Dawkins was highly critical of fellow biologist E. O. Wilson's 2012 book \"The Social Conquest of Earth\" as misunderstanding Hamilton's theory of kin selection. Dawkins has also been strongly critical of the Gaia hypothesis of the independent scientist James Lovelock.\n\nCritics of Dawkins's biological approach suggest that taking the gene as the unit of \"selection\" (a single event in which an individual either succeeds or fails to reproduce) is misleading. The gene could be better described, they say, as a unit of \"evolution\" (the long-term changes in allele frequencies in a population). In \"The Selfish Gene\", Dawkins explains that he is using George C. Williams's definition of the gene as \"that which segregates and recombines with appreciable frequency\". Another common objection is that a gene cannot survive alone, but must cooperate with other genes to build an individual, and therefore a gene cannot be an independent \"unit\". In \"The Extended Phenotype\", Dawkins suggests that from an individual gene's viewpoint, all other genes are part of the environment to which it is adapted.\n\nAdvocates for higher levels of selection (such as Richard Lewontin, David Sloan Wilson, and Elliott Sober) suggest that there are many phenomena (including altruism) that gene-based selection cannot satisfactorily explain. The philosopher Mary Midgley, with whom Dawkins clashed in print concerning \"The Selfish Gene\", has criticised gene selection, memetics, and sociobiology as being excessively reductionist; she has suggested that the popularity of Dawkins's work is due to factors in the Zeitgeist such as the increased individualism of the Thatcher/Reagan decades.\n\nIn a set of controversies over the mechanisms and interpretation of evolution (what has been called 'The Darwin Wars'), one faction is often named after Dawkins, while the other faction is named after the American palaeontologist Stephen Jay Gould, reflecting the pre-eminence of each as a populariser of the pertinent ideas. In particular, Dawkins and Gould have been prominent commentators in the controversy over sociobiology and evolutionary psychology, with Dawkins generally approving and Gould generally being critical. A typical example of Dawkins's position is his scathing review of \"Not in Our Genes\" by Steven Rose, Leon J. Kamin, and Richard C. Lewontin. Two other thinkers who are often considered to be allied with Dawkins on the subject are Steven Pinker and Daniel Dennett; Dennett has promoted a gene-centred view of evolution and defended reductionism in biology. Despite their academic disagreements, Dawkins and Gould did not have a hostile personal relationship, and Dawkins dedicated a large portion of his 2003 book \"A Devil's Chaplain\" posthumously to Gould, who had died the previous year.\n\nWhen asked if Darwinism informs his everyday apprehension of life, Dawkins says, \"In one way it does. My eyes are constantly wide open to the extraordinary fact of existence. Not just human existence but the existence of life and how this breathtakingly powerful process, which is natural selection, has managed to take the very simple facts of physics and chemistry and build them up to redwood trees and humans. That's never far from my thoughts, that sense of amazement. On the other hand I certainly don't allow Darwinism to influence my feelings about human social life,\" implying that he feels that individual human beings can opt out of the survival machine of Darwinism since they are freed by the consciousness of self.\n\nIn his book \"The Selfish Gene\", Dawkins coined the word \"meme\" (the behavioural equivalent of a gene) as a way to encourage readers to think about how Darwinian principles might be extended beyond the realm of genes. It was intended as an extension of his \"replicators\" argument, but it took on a life of its own in the hands of other authors, such as Daniel Dennett and Susan Blackmore. These popularisations then led to the emergence of memetics, a field from which Dawkins has distanced himself.\n\nDawkins's \"meme\" refers to any cultural entity that an observer might consider a replicator of a certain idea or set of ideas. He hypothesised that people could view many cultural entities as capable of such replication, generally through communication and contact with humans, who have evolved as efficient (although not perfect) copiers of information and behaviour. Because memes are not always copied perfectly, they might become refined, combined, or otherwise modified with other ideas; this results in new memes, which may themselves prove more or less efficient replicators than their predecessors, thus providing a framework for a hypothesis of cultural evolution based on memes, a notion that is analogous to the theory of biological evolution based on genes.\n\nAlthough Dawkins invented the term \"meme\", he has not claimed that the idea was entirely novel, and there have been other expressions for similar ideas in the past. For instance, John Laurent has suggested that the term may have derived from the work of the little-known German biologist Richard Semon. Semon regarded \"mneme\" as the collective set of neural memory traces (conscious or subconscious) that were inherited, although such view would be considered as Lamarckian by modern biologists. Laurent also found the use of the term \"mneme\" in Maurice Maeterlinck's \"The Life of the White Ant\" (1926), and Maeterlinck himself stated that he obtained the phrase from Semon's work. In his own work, Maeterlinck tried to explain memory in termites and ants by claiming that neural memory traces were added \"upon the individual mneme\". Nonetheless, James Gleick describes Dawkins's concept of the meme as \"his most famous memorable invention, far more influential than his selfish genes or his later proselytising against religiosity\".\n\nIn 2006, Dawkins founded the \"Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science\" (\"RDFRS\"), a non-profit organisation. RDFRS financed research on the psychology of belief and religion, financed scientific education programs and materials, and publicised and supported charitable organisations that are secular in nature. In January 2016, it was announced that the foundation was merging with the Center for Inquiry, with Dawkins becoming a member of the new organization's board of directors.\n\nDawkins was confirmed into the Church of England at the age of 13, but began to grow sceptical of the beliefs. After learning about Darwinism and the scientific reason why living things look as though they have been designed, Dawkins lost the remainder of his religious faith. He said that his understanding of science and evolutionary processes led him to question how adults in positions of leadership in a civilized world could still be so uneducated in biology, and is puzzled by how belief in God could remain among individuals who are sophisticated in science. Dawkins notes that some physicists use 'God' as a metaphor for the general awe-inspiring mysteries of the universe, which causes confusion and misunderstanding among people who incorrectly think they are talking about a mystical being who forgives sins, transubstantiates wine, or makes people live after they die. He disagrees with Stephen Jay Gould's principle of nonoverlapping magisteria (NOMA) and suggests that the existence of God should be treated as a scientific hypothesis like any other. Dawkins became a prominent critic of religion and has stated his opposition to religion as twofold: religion is both a source of conflict and a justification for belief without evidence. He considers faith—belief that is not based on evidence—as \"one of the world's great evils\".\n\nOn his spectrum of theistic probability, which has seven levels between 1 (100% certainty that a God or gods exist) and 7 (100% certainty that a God or gods do not exist), Dawkins has said he is a 6.9, which represents a \"de facto atheist\" who thinks \"I cannot know for certain but I think God is very improbable, and I live my life on the assumption that he is not there.\" When asked about his slight uncertainty, Dawkins quips, \"I am agnostic to the extent that I am agnostic about fairies at the bottom of the garden.\" In May 2014, at the Hay Festival in Wales, Dawkins explained that while he does not believe in the supernatural elements of the Christian faith, he still has nostalgia for the ceremonial side of religion. In addition to beliefs in deities, Dawkins has criticized other irrational religious beliefs such as Jesus turned water into wine, that an embryo starts as a blob, that magic underwear will protect you, that Jesus was resurrected, that semen comes from the spine, that Jesus walked on water, that the sun sets in a marsh, that the Garden of Eden existed in Missouri, that Jesus' mother was a virgin, that Muhammad split the moon, and that Lazarus was raised from the dead.\n\nDawkins has risen to prominence in public debates concerning science and religion since the publication of his most popular book, \"The God Delusion\", in 2006, which became an international best seller. As of 2015, more than three million copies have been sold and the book has been translated into over 30 languages. Its success has been seen by many as indicative of a change in the contemporary cultural zeitgeist and has also been identified with the rise of New Atheism. In the book, Dawkins contends that a supernatural creator almost certainly does not exist and that religious faith is a delusion—\"a fixed false belief\". In his February 2002 TED talk entitled \"Militant atheism\", Dawkins urged all atheists to openly state their position and to fight the incursion of the church into politics and science. On 30 September 2007, Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, Sam Harris, and Daniel Dennett met at Hitchens's residence for a private, unmoderated discussion that lasted two hours. The event was videotaped and entitled \"The Four Horsemen\".\n\nDawkins sees education and consciousness-raising as the primary tools in opposing what he considers to be religious dogma and indoctrination. These tools include the fight against certain stereotypes, and he has adopted the term \"bright\" as a way of associating positive public connotations with those who possess a naturalistic worldview. He has given support to the idea of a free-thinking school, which would not \"indoctrinate children\" but would instead teach children to ask for evidence, be skeptical, critical, and open-minded. Such a school, says Dawkins, should \"teach comparative religion, and teach it properly without any bias towards particular religions, and including historically important but dead religions, such as those of ancient Greece and the Norse gods, if only because these, like the Abrahamic scriptures, are important for understanding English literature and European history. Inspired by the consciousness-raising successes of feminists in arousing widespread embarrassment at the routine use of \"he\" instead of \"she\", Dawkins similarly suggests that phrases such as \"Catholic child\" and \"Muslim child\" should be considered as socially absurd as, for instance, \"Marxist child\", as he believes that children should not be classified based on the ideological or religious beliefs of their parents.\n\nWhile some critics, such as writer Christopher Hitchens, psychologist Steven Pinker and Nobel laureates Sir Harold Kroto, James D. Watson, and Steven Weinberg have defended Dawkins's stance on religion and praised his work, others, including Nobel Prize-winning theoretical physicist Peter Higgs, astrophysicist Martin Rees, philosopher of science Michael Ruse, literary critic Terry Eagleton, and theologian Alister McGrath, have criticised Dawkins on various grounds, including the assertion that his work simply serves as an atheist counterpart to religious fundamentalism rather than a productive critique of it, and that he has fundamentally misapprehended the foundations of the theological positions he claims to refute. Rees and Higgs, in particular, have both rejected Dawkins's confrontational stance toward religion as narrow and \"embarrassing\", with Higgs going as far as to equate Dawkins with the religious fundamentalists he criticises. Atheist philosopher John Gray has denounced Dawkins as an \"anti-religious missionary\", whose assertions are \"in no sense novel or original,\" suggesting that \"transfixed in wonderment at the workings of his own mind, Dawkins misses much that is of importance in human beings.\" Gray has also criticised Dawkins's perceived allegiance to Darwin, stating that if \"science, for Darwin, was a method of inquiry that enabled him to edge tentatively and humbly toward the truth, for Dawkins, science is an unquestioned view of the world.\" In response to his critics, Dawkins maintains that theologians are no better than scientists in addressing deep cosmological questions and that he is not a fundamentalist, as he is willing to change his mind in the face of new evidence.\n\nDawkins is a prominent critic of creationism, a religious belief that humanity, life, and the universe were created by a deity without recourse to evolution. He has described the Young Earth creationist view that the Earth is only a few thousand years old as \"a preposterous, mind-shrinking falsehood\". His 1986 book, \"The Blind Watchmaker\", contains a sustained critique of the argument from design, an important creationist argument. In the book, Dawkins argues against the watchmaker analogy made famous by the eighteenth-century English theologian William Paley via his book \"Natural Theology\", in which Paley argues that just as a watch is too complicated and too functional to have sprung into existence merely by accident, so too must all living things—with their far greater complexity—be purposefully designed. Dawkins shares the view generally held by scientists that natural selection is sufficient to explain the apparent functionality and non-random complexity of the biological world, and can be said to play the role of watchmaker in nature, albeit as an automatic, unguided by any designer, nonintelligent, \"blind\" watchmaker.\n\nIn 1986, Dawkins and biologist John Maynard Smith participated in an Oxford Union debate against A. E. Wilder-Smith (a Young Earth creationist) and Edgar Andrews (president of the Biblical Creation Society). In general, however, Dawkins has followed the advice of his late colleague Stephen Jay Gould and refused to participate in formal debates with creationists because \"what they seek is the oxygen of respectability\", and doing so would \"give them this oxygen by the mere act of \"engaging\" with them at all\". He suggests that creationists \"don't mind being beaten in an argument. What matters is that we give them recognition by bothering to argue with them in public.\" In a December 2004 interview with American journalist Bill Moyers, Dawkins said that \"among the things that science does know, evolution is about as certain as anything we know.\" When Moyers questioned him on the use of the word \"theory\", Dawkins stated that \"evolution has been observed. It's just that it hasn't been observed while it's happening.\" He added that \"it is rather like a detective coming on a murder after the scene... the detective hasn't actually seen the murder take place, of course. But what you do see is a massive clue... Huge quantities of circumstantial evidence. It might as well be spelled out in words of English.\"\n\nDawkins has opposed the inclusion of intelligent design in science education, describing it as \"not a scientific argument at all, but a religious one\". He has been referred to in the media as \"Darwin's Rottweiler\", a reference to English biologist T. H. Huxley, who was known as \"Darwin's Bulldog\" for his advocacy of Charles Darwin's evolutionary ideas. He has been a strong critic of the British organisation Truth in Science, which promotes the teaching of creationism in state schools, and whose work Dawkins has described as an \"educational scandal\". He plans to subsidise schools through the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science with the delivery of books, DVDs, and pamphlets that counteract their work.\n\nDawkins is an outspoken atheist and a supporter of various atheist, secular, and humanistic organisations, including Humanists UK and the Brights movement. Dawkins suggests that atheists should be proud, not apologetic, stressing that atheism is evidence of a healthy, independent mind. He hopes that the more atheists identify themselves, the more the public will become aware of just how many people are nonbelievers, thereby reducing the negative opinion of atheism among the religious majority. Inspired by the gay rights movement, he endorsed the Out Campaign to encourage atheists worldwide to declare their stance publicly. He supported the UK's first atheist advertising initiative, the Atheist Bus Campaign in 2008, which aimed to raise funds to place atheist advertisements on buses in the London area.\n\nDawkins has expressed concern about the growth of human population and about the matter of overpopulation. In \"The Selfish Gene\", he briefly mentions population growth, giving the example of Latin America, whose population, at the time the book was written, was doubling every 40 years. He is critical of Roman Catholic attitudes to family planning and population control, stating that leaders who forbid contraception and \"express a preference for 'natural' methods of population limitation\" will get just such a method in the form of starvation.\n\nAs a supporter of the Great Ape Project—a movement to extend certain moral and legal rights to all great apes—Dawkins contributed the article 'Gaps in the Mind' to the \"Great Ape Project\" book edited by Paola Cavalieri and Peter Singer. In this essay, he criticises contemporary society's moral attitudes as being based on a \"discontinuous, speciesist imperative\".\n\nDawkins also regularly comments in newspapers and blogs on contemporary political questions and is a frequent contributor to the online science and culture digest \"3 Quarks Daily\". His opinions include opposition to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the British nuclear deterrent, the actions of then-US President George W. Bush, and the ethics of designer babies. Several such articles were included in \"A Devil's Chaplain\", an anthology of writings about science, religion, and politics. He is also a supporter of Republic's campaign to replace the British monarchy with a democratically elected president. Dawkins has described himself as a Labour voter in the 1970s and voter for the Liberal Democrats since the party's creation. In 2009, he spoke at the party's conference in opposition to blasphemy laws, alternative medicine, and faith schools. In the UK general election of 2010, Dawkins officially endorsed the Liberal Democrats, in support of their campaign for electoral reform and for their \"refusal to pander to 'faith. In the run up to the 2017 General Election, Dawkins once again endorsed the Liberal Democrats and urged voters to join the party.\n\nIn 1998, Dawkins expressed his appreciation for two books connected with the Sokal affair, \"\" by Paul R. Gross and Norman Levitt and \"Intellectual Impostures\" by Sokal and Jean Bricmont. These books are famous for their criticism of postmodernism in US universities (namely in the departments of literary studies, anthropology, and other cultural studies).\n\nDawkins has voiced his support for the Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, an organisation that campaigns for democratic reform in the United Nations, and the creation of a more accountable international political system.\n\nDawkins identifies as a feminist. Dawkins has said that feminism is \"enormously important\" and \"a political movement that deserves to be supported\".\n\nIn his role as professor for public understanding of science, Dawkins has been a critic of pseudoscience and alternative medicine. His 1998 book \"Unweaving the Rainbow\" considers John Keats's accusation that by explaining the rainbow, Isaac Newton diminished its beauty; Dawkins argues for the opposite conclusion. He suggests that deep space, the billions of years of life's evolution, and the microscopic workings of biology and heredity contain more beauty and wonder than do \"myths\" and \"pseudoscience\". For John Diamond's posthumously published \"Snake Oil\", a book devoted to debunking alternative medicine, Dawkins wrote a foreword in which he asserts that alternative medicine is harmful, if only because it distracts patients from more successful conventional treatments and gives people false hopes. Dawkins states that \"There is no alternative medicine. There is only medicine that works and medicine that doesn't work.\" In his 2007 Channel 4 TV film \"The Enemies of Reason\", Dawkins concluded that Britain is gripped by \"an epidemic of superstitious thinking\".\n\nContinuing a long-standing partnership with Channel 4, Dawkins participated in a five-part television series, \"Genius of Britain\", along with fellow scientists Stephen Hawking, James Dyson, Paul Nurse, and Jim Al-Khalili. The series was first broadcast in June 2010, and focuses on major, British, scientific achievements throughout history.\n\nIn 2014 he joined the global awareness movement Asteroid Day as a \"100x Signatory\".\nDawkins worked along side Welsh Musician Jayce Lewis contributing a recorded spoken word for the track 'Exhale' from his 1998 book Unweaving the Rainbow to the Welshmans 3rd full length album 'Million'\n\nDawkins was awarded a Doctor of Science degree by the University of Oxford in 1989. He holds honorary doctorates in science from the University of Huddersfield, University of Westminster, Durham University, the University of Hull, the University of Antwerp, the University of Oslo, the University of Aberdeen, Open University, the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, and the University of Valencia. He also holds honorary doctorates of letters from the University of St Andrews and the Australian National University (HonLittD, 1996), and was elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1997 and a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 2001. He is one of the patrons of the Oxford University Scientific Society.\n\nIn 1987, Dawkins received a Royal Society of Literature award and a \"Los Angeles Times\" Literary Prize for his book \"The Blind Watchmaker\". In the same year, he received a Sci. Tech Prize for Best Television Documentary Science Programme of the Year for his work on the BBC's \"Horizon\" episode \"The Blind Watchmaker\".\n\nHis other awards include the Zoological Society of London's Silver Medal (1989), the Finlay Innovation Award (1990), the Michael Faraday Award (1990), the Nakayama Prize (1994), the American Humanist Association's Humanist of the Year Award (1996), the fifth International Cosmos Prize (1997), the Kistler Prize (2001), the Medal of the Presidency of the Italian Republic (2001), the 2001 and 2012 Emperor Has No Clothes Award from the Freedom From Religion Foundation, the Bicentennial Kelvin Medal of The Royal Philosophical Society of Glasgow (2002), and the Nierenberg Prize for Science in the Public Interest (2009). He was awarded the Deschner Award, named after German anti-clerical author Karlheinz Deschner. The Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSICOP) has awarded Dawkins their highest award \"In Praise of Reason\" (1992).\nDawkins topped \"Prospect\" magazine's 2004 list of the top 100 public British intellectuals, as decided by the readers, receiving twice as many votes as the runner-up. He was shortlisted as a candidate in their 2008 follow-up poll. In a poll held by \"Prospect\" in 2013, Dawkins was voted the world's top thinker based on 65 names chosen by a largely US and UK-based expert panel.\n\nIn 2005, the Hamburg-based Alfred Toepfer Foundation awarded him its Shakespeare Prize in recognition of his \"concise and accessible presentation of scientific knowledge\". He won the Lewis Thomas Prize for Writing about Science for 2006, as well as the Galaxy British Book Awards's Author of the Year Award for 2007. In the same year, he was listed by \"Time\" magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2007, and was ranked 20th in \"The Daily Telegraph\"'s 2007 list of 100 greatest living geniuses.\n\nSince 2003, the Atheist Alliance International has awarded a prize during its annual conference, honouring an outstanding atheist whose work has done the most to raise public awareness of atheism during that year; it is known as the Richard Dawkins Award, in honour of Dawkins's own efforts. In February 2010, Dawkins was named to the Freedom From Religion Foundation's Honorary Board of distinguished achievers.\n\nIn 2012, ichthyologists in Sri Lanka honored Dawkins by creating \"Dawkinsia\" as a new genus name (members of this genus were formerly members of the genus \"Puntius\"). Explaining the reasoning behind the genus name, lead researcher Rohan Pethiyagoda was quoted as stating, \"Richard Dawkins has, through his writings, helped us understand that the universe is far more beautiful and awe-inspiring than any religion has imagined [...]. We hope that \"Dawkinsia\" will serve as a reminder of the elegance and simplicity of evolution, the only rational explanation there is for the unimaginable diversity of life on Earth.\n\nDawkins has been married three times, and has one daughter. On 19 August 1967, Dawkins married fellow ethologist Marian Stamp in the Protestant church in Annestown, County Waterford, Ireland; they divorced in 1984. On 1 June 1984, he married Eve Barham (19 August 1951 – 28 February 1999) in Oxford. They had a daughter, Juliet Emma Dawkins (born 1984, Oxford). Dawkins and Barham divorced. In 1992, he married actress Lalla Ward in Kensington and Chelsea, London. Dawkins met her through their mutual friend Douglas Adams, who had worked with her on the BBC's \"Doctor Who\". Dawkins and Ward separated in 2016 and they later described the separation as \"entirely amicable\".\n\nOn 6 February 2016, Dawkins suffered a minor hemorrhagic stroke while at home. Dawkins reported later that same year that he had almost completely recovered.\n\n\n\nDawkins has made many television appearances on news shows providing his political opinions and especially his views as an atheist. He has been interviewed on the radio, often as part of his book tours. He has debated many religious figures. He has made many university speaking appearances, again often in coordination with his book tours. As of 2016, he has over 60 credits in the Internet Movie Database where he appeared as himself.\n\na. W. D. Hamilton influenced Dawkins and the influence can be seen throughout Dawkins's book \"The Selfish Gene\". They became friends at Oxford and following Hamilton's death in 2000, Dawkins wrote his obituary and organised a secular memorial service.\n\nb. The debate ended with the motion \"That the doctrine of creation is more valid than the theory of evolution\" being defeated by 198 votes to 115.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45393538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45393538", "title": "Roy B. Kester", "text": "Roy B. Kester\n\nRoy Bernard Kester (Sept. 11, 1882 - Oct. 21, 1965) was an American accountant, and Professor of accounting at the Columbia University. He is known as a prolific author in the field of accounting.\n\nBorn in Cameron, Missouri to Julius B. and Jessie M. Corn Kester, Kester attended Cameron High School, and obtained his BA in economics in 1902 at Missouri Wesleyan College. About a decade later he obtained another BA from the University of Denver, in 1911. He continued his studies at Columbia University, where he obtained his MA in 1912 and his PhD in 1919. In between, in 1914, he obtained his CPA license for the State of Colorado.\n\nKester had started his academic career at the Missouri Wesleyan College in 1902, and from 1907 he was also lecturer at East Denver High School and subsequently at the University of Denver. In 1915 he moved to Columbia University in New York City, where he worked his way up from Assistant Professor in 1919, to Associate Professor in 1920, and to Full Professor in 1922. He served until his retirement in 1948. Among his PhD students was Henry Whitcomb Sweeney (1898-1967). From 1911 on, Kester also was working as a practising public accountant, and had joined the New York accountancy firm Boyce, Hughes and Farrell in 1917.\n\nKester was elected vice president of the American Accounting Association from 1922 to 1925, and served as its president during 1925. From 1925 to 1928 he served at the National Academy of Arbitrators as director of research in cost and management accounting, as successor of Professor Gould Harris of New York. In 1941 Kester was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by Baker University. He was inducted into the Accounting Hall of Fame in 1957.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13463733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13463733", "title": "School Information Management System", "text": "School Information Management System\n\nSIMS (School Information Management System) is a student information system, i.e. a school management information system, currently developed by Capita. It is the most widely used MIS in UK schools, claiming over 80% market share across the primary and secondary sectors.\n\nSIMS uses a client-server architecture; the back-end service is based around Microsoft SQL Server with some business logic handled by a custom .NET Framework module. The client application is also built with .NET, and handles almost all of the data manipulation and reporting workload.\n\nSome legacy components (notably Nova-T6, the timetabling package included with SIMS) are Windows API applications and store data in flat binary files.\n\nSIMS is a modular application, the core offering covering storing basic school data with modules available to handle (among other things) legal registration, the recording of achievements and sanctions and the management and documentation of public examinations. Capita also offer modules aimed at specific sectors, such as a fee billing system for private schools.\n\nThird-party developers can build products that integrate with SIMS through Capita's \"Partner Program\". Schools that already own a SIMS licence can get free or reduced-price access to the SIMS API, but private companies must pay a non-trivial yearly fee to gain and then retain the ability to interface with SIMS.\n\nSIMS was the first MIS for schools . It was initially developed by Philip Neal, a teacher at Lea Manor High School, from 1982 to 1983 . Bedfordshire County Council (Lea Manor's local education authority) then further developed the product, which began being used by other schools in 1984 .\n\nIn 1988, a commercial company, SIMS Ltd, was founded to further develop SIMS .\n\nSIMS Ltd was acquired by Capita Group in 1994.\n\nSIMS has a market share of over 80% in the MIS industry for schools in England and Wales.\n\nIn 2005, recognising the serious issues posed by the overwhelming market dominance of SIMS and the lack of competition, Becta report highlighted the fact that the charges to schools of maintaining current Management Information Systems (MIS) from the dominant supplier has increased up to threefold since 1999. BECTA suggests that many schools and colleges are being charged ever-increasing amounts to maintain their MIS and are not receiving value for the money they spend.\n\nThe key issues that also emerged from Becta report were as follows:\n\nCapita Children’s Services’ position was that the report did not adequately take account of increased government demands on schools for statutory returns or the significant growth in the number of individuals using technology in schools, both of which contribute to increased costs.\n\nBecta established a Schools Interoperability Framework (based on the model used in the United States) which education products could easily comply with and interoperate. The director of SIMS, however, claimed that the implementation of these standard interfaces would incur a significant cost to their software.\n\nCapita Children’s Services has been an active founding member of the Systems Interoperability Framework (SIF) Association UK since 2006 and the company has had a representative on all of the organisation’s boards. It participated in both the first Becta sponsored proof of concept project in Birmingham 2006/2007 and the second, involving Northern Ireland schools and the University of Durham (2007). Managing director of SIMS, Phil Neal, has stated that Capita’s input helps to shape the quality of the SIF data model and address concerns around the applicability of SIF in the UK, particularly with regard to security. The company was one of the first UK MIS suppliers to release a commercial SIF based solution in its SIMS Partnership Xchange product.\n\nBromcom have referred Capita to the OFT on three occasions. The first complaint in 1999 was not upheld and the OFT in their concluding letter to Bromcom stated “it emerged that the information which you claimed Capita had refused to supply, had never in fact been requested by you”. The second complaint which was concluded in 2003 was resolved by way of Capita providing Voluntary Assurances as to the way in which it would make interface information available; the OFT IT expert supported Capita’s position in regard to the way in which it required third parties to interface to SIMS. In the third complaint lodged in 2009, Bromcom alleged that Capita had overcharged the UK schools market by £75.4m over a ten-year period, the OFT declined to investigate the complaint.\n\nCapita Children's Services won an award at the 2009 BETT show for its SIMS Partnership Xchange product which allows school consortiums to securely share student information to aid in delivering the 14-19 Curriculum a key part of which is the 14–19 Diploma. The company was nominated as ICT Supplier of the Year in the BETT Awards 2010.\n\nIn 2012, Capita’s SIMS Discover was shortlisted in the Leadership and Management Solutions category of the BETT Awards and was also selected by BESA as winner of the Innovation award in the Education Resources Awards.\n\nSIMS Discover was designed to make it easier for school leaders and teachers to analyse pupil data and identify issues that might be preventing children from making good progress in school. The software enables graphs to be created simply from the data in SIMS to help schools spot patterns, such as persistent absence or a child that is falling below the expected levels of achievement, so they can make meaningful interventions to raise achievement.\n\nCapita are also partners of the Association of School and College Leaders (ASCL) and Becta.\n\nIn March 2009, Capita SIMS were said to be responsible for sending a truancy warning notice to the family of a Cheshire school student who had died two months before. Capita Children’s Services have stated that the software that was used is designed to keep track of pupils’ attendance and the school is able to produce letters to parents based on this information. When a child is no longer attending a school, for whatever reason, their data can be viewed for historical reasons but is generally hidden from view in the day-to-day running of the school. The software will allow the school to continue to run reports and produce letters to parents, as occasionally it is necessary to do so. It appears that this is what has happened in this case and Capita have now made changes to prevent this situation from happening again.\n\nThe origin of SIMS has been surrounded with controversy. This is due to the fact that private fortunes were made from a system developed with public money. Philip Neal (who was then working as a teacher for Lea Manor) wrote a program allowing teachers to produce computerised pupil reports. Bedfordshire then developed the scheme using thousands of pounds of its own money. The assets were then passed onto SIMS Ltd. MP Margaret Moran described this as \"‘using council resources to effectively set up a private business’\".\n\nAt the time, Tony Callaghan, the National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers executive member for Bedfordshire, branded the episode a \"disgrace\". A member of the council's education committee when SIMS became a private company, he told The TES: \"It seems amazing to me that this was allowed to happen. I was always amazed that there wasn't a full and thorough investigation. I would like to see an investigation to see if any of that money can be retrieved and paid into the coffers of the county council, which funded the original operation.\"\n\nThis version of events was strongly disputed by Neal. He has stated that, although he wrote the program that formed the foundations of SIMS whilst he was working at Lea Manor, the work was undertaken completely in his own time. He added that Bedfordshire authority sold the software on to other councils and it was the revenue from this that was used to develop SIMS further, a process that was fully approved by the district auditor.\n"}
{"id": "45121582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45121582", "title": "Summer melt", "text": "Summer melt\n\nSummer melt is the phenomenon of prospective college students' motivation to attend college \"melting\" away during the summer between the end of high school and beginning of college. This phenomenon is especially prevalent in low-income minority communities, where students who qualify for college and in some cases even register for classes ultimately end up not attending college because they lack resources, support, guidance, and encouragement. Support programs, particularly by colleges using nudge methods like messaging students via text message, have been found to reduce summer melt.\n"}
{"id": "32558849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32558849", "title": "Suryodaya English School", "text": "Suryodaya English School\n\nSuryodaya Higher Secondary School, earlier referred to as SEMS (Suryodaya English Medium School), is a Missionary school in Nepal. It was founded by a Jesuit Father L. Harvey in 1986 A.D. As a result, it is called by locals as Father Boarding. It is an institution in Jhapa, Eastern Nepal known for extra-curricular activities and excellent education\n\nThe historic villa, where the school took birth does not exist today with a new residential building built in the mid 2000s. The relic was a symbol of desolation lingering in the sweeping transition in an ever changing environment before being home to a respectable working-class family. However the old villa until its existence did provide the distant memories of Fr. Harvey, the pioneer of Suryodaya, who first started the kindergarten in this rented house with the enrollment of not over fifty pupils in 1986.\n\nIn 1985, the then Ecclesiastical Superior, Rev. Father Casper J. Miller bought the land for the site from a local landowner Bijoy Kumar Lama and registered it in the name of Nepal Jesuit Society. Rev. Father Laurier Harvey was given its charge and was sent with directives to start a school and parish here. Father Harvey (1986-1989) was the first Principal of Suryodaya English School with Rev. Father John Kisku, Sister Sima and Mrs. Josodha Subba being the first members of the teaching staff. By 1987 a building had been constructed for class one at the current spot, followed by the construction of a vocational school specializing on training the locals on T.V. and radio repairs, further spoken English, Embroidery and Home Science were also part of the program. Fr. Harvey is still remembered among the locals and is still a favorite subject of their talk, as they often speak about his twenty five paisa monthly fee that he charged his students. Unfortunately, in an unfamiliar environment he had to combat adjustment problems and often faced communal criticism.\n\nIn 1988 the Convent building was completed and the Sisters of St. Joseph of Cluny started staying there, and by 1989 the authority was transferred from the Jesuit Fathers to the Sisters. Rev. Sister Margaret Rai, an elderly sister served as the first principal of the newly erected school, despite her old age and ailments she continued until 1993.\n\nIn 2014, the school added up higher secondary courses, extending its classes up to 12th. Thus, renaming itself as Suryodaya Higher Secondary School. After mid 2014, the then principal Rev Sr. Imelda Sherpa was replaced by Rev Sr. Colette Molmoo and a new set of sisters were sent by the provincial house. Currently, Rev Sr. Magdalene Singh serves as the principal, Rev. Sr. Marie Claire as the superior and Rev Sr. Pratima Khaka sees the primary children along with Rev Sr. Tresa. \n"}
{"id": "3364148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3364148", "title": "The Theatre School at DePaul University", "text": "The Theatre School at DePaul University\n\nThe Theatre School at DePaul University, previously the Goodman School of Drama (also known as TTS and GSD, respectively) is the drama school of DePaul University. Founded when its very first class was conducted at the Art Institute of Chicago on January 5, 1925, the Goodman School was associated with the Goodman Theatre company and officially became part of DePaul University on July 1, 1978, and was renamed The Theatre School at DePaul University in 1982. The Theatre School is the Midwest region's oldest theatre conservatory and is ranked as one of the top professional theatrical training programs in the United States, enrolling approximately 320 students from North America and abroad. The Theatre School's main performance space is the Merle Reskin Theatre (formerly Blackstone Theatre) in Downtown Chicago.\n\nThe Theatre School is organized in three departments with the following degrees are currently on offer:\n\n\n\nThe Theatre School produces over two dozen public theatrical productions and nearly forty total productions each season. The Theatre School Showcase Series features contemporary and classic plays, while the Chicago Playworks for Families and Young Audiences presents plays for children. Other mainstage productions include the New Directors Series (MFA Directing theses) and the New Playwrights Series (BFA Playwriting pieces).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "477714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477714", "title": "University of Buenos Aires", "text": "University of Buenos Aires\n\nThe University of Buenos Aires (, UBA) is the largest university in Argentina and the second largest university by enrollment in Latin America. Founded on August 12, 1821 in the city of Buenos Aires, it consists of 13 departments, 6 hospitals, 10 museums and is linked to 4 high schools: Colegio Nacional de Buenos Aires, Escuela Superior de Comercio Carlos Pellegrini, Instituto Libre de Segunda Enseñanza and \"Escuela de Educación Técnica Profesional en Producción Agropecuaria y Agroalimentaria\".\n\nEntry to any of the available programmes of study in the university is open to anyone with a secondary school degree; in most cases, students who have successfully completed high school must pass a first year called CBC, which stands for \"Ciclo Básico Común\" (Common Basic Cycle). Only upon completion of this first year may the student enter the chosen school; until then, they must attend courses in different buildings, and have up to 3 years to finish the 6 or 7 subjects (which vary depending on the programme of study chosen) assigned in two groups of 3 or 4. Each subject is of one semester duration (March–July or August–November). If someone passes all 6 subjects in their respective semester, the CBC will take only one year. Potential students of economics, instead, take a 2-year common cycle, the \"CBG\" (General Basic Cycle), comprising 12 subjects.\n\nThe UBA has no central campus. A centralized \"Ciudad Universitaria\" (literally, \"university city\") was started in the 1960s, but contains only two schools, with the others at different locations in Buenos Aires.\n\nAccess to the university is free of charge for everyone, including foreigners. However, the postgraduate programs charge tuition fees that can be covered with research scholarships for those students with outstanding academic performance.\n\nThe university has produced four Nobel Prize laureates, one of the most prolific institutions in the Spanish-speaking world. According to the QS World University Rankings (2017/18) the University of Buenos Aires ranked number 75 in the world, making it the highest ranked university in Ibero-America.\n\nThe schools that comprise the university are:\n\nOf these, only the last two have their buildings located in \"Ciudad Universitaria\", a campus-like location in Núñez, in northern Buenos Aires along the banks of the Río de la Plata. The others are scattered around the city in buildings of various sizes, with some having more than one building. There are projects to move more schools to \"Ciudad Universitaria\", the first one in order of importance is the School of Psychology, whose building is already designed to be placed on this Campus.\n\nThere are no existing Argentinian or Latin-American university ranking systems, but several international rankings have ranked the University of Buenos Aires (UBA). The reputed Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), also known as the \"Shanghai Ranking\" ranked UBA not only above all other Argentinian universities but all other Latin-American ones. The QS World University Rankings ranks UBA in the 75th place, above all other Spanish or Portuguese speaking universities (American and European) in its worldwide ranking but relegates it to the 11th place in its Latin-American ranking.\n\n\nThe following former students and professors of the university have received the Nobel Prize:\n\nThe following Presidents of Argentina have earned their degrees at the university:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30347950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30347950", "title": "Veronica Vera", "text": "Veronica Vera\n\nVeronica Vera is an American human sexuality writer and actress. She is best known for the films \"Times Square Comes Alive\", Gerard Damiano's \"Consenting Adults\", \"Mondo New York\", and \"Rites of Passion\", as well as her work with photographer Robert Mapplethorpe.\n\nVera is a former Wall Street trader and is also known for running the cross-dressing school Miss Vera's Finishing School For Boys Who Want to be Girls, on which she wrote a book, \"Miss Vera's Finishing School for Boys Who Want to Be Girls\", published by Doubleday in 1997.\n\nMiss Vera's Finishing School For Boys Who Want to be Girls is a business in New York City that provides instruction in cross dressing founded and run by Veronica Vera. Actor Paul Dano attended the school while researching a role in the film \"The Extra Man\". One of the school's most popular topics of instruction is walking in high-heeled shoes. In 2008, Vera said more than 5,000 people, including many women, had enrolled in this class in the previous 12 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "669244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=669244", "title": "War college", "text": "War college\n\nA war college is a senior military academy which is normally intended for veteran military officers and whose purpose is to educate and 'train on' senior military tacticians, strategists, and leaders. It is also often the place where advanced tactical and strategic thought is conducted, both for the purpose of developing doctrine and for the purpose of identifying implications and shifts in long-term patterns.\n\nExamples:\n"}
{"id": "20647445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20647445", "title": "Whittier Conservancy", "text": "Whittier Conservancy\n\nThe Whittier Conservancy is a coalition of citizens in the city of Whittier, California. It was born from the rubble of the Whittier Narrows earthquake of October 1, 1987, which had led to the destruction of many historic buildings in Whittier, including the Lindley Building, one of Whittier's \"Four Bricks\", and the landmark Whittier Theater. In 1989, the Conservancy assisted the City to rezone the residential neighborhoods north of Hadley Street to protect this vital area from rampant, uncontrolled apartment construction. The Conservancy spearheaded the preservation of the historic Whittier Depot and the McGee House. Though primarily a historic preservation organization, the Conservancy is also interested in open space preservation, and is involved in the continuing movement to preserve the Whittier Hills as part of the Puente-Chino Hills Wildlife Corridor \n\nOn May 23, 2007, the Conservancy filed suit against the City of Whittier. This was in response to the Whittier City Council overruling the Historic Resources Commission by a 3-2 vote and approving the demolition of three buildings on the California Domestic Water property, across the street from Whitwood Mall, before an environmental impact report had been filed. The Cal-Domestic Lawsuit has been a major event in recent Whittier politics, as it led to the creation of the Coalition for a Better Whittier, a political action committee founded to support the city in the lawsuit (thereby counteracting the influences of the Conservancy) and to push for further mixed-use development in the City of Whittier.\n"}
{"id": "23155473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23155473", "title": "Yves Brunsvick", "text": "Yves Brunsvick\n\nYves Brunsvick (1921–1999) was a famous humanist and philosopher of education. Initially a French teacher, in 1948 he joined the French National Commission (a subsidiary of UNESCO), initially as assistant to the Secretary-General, Louis François. In 1958 he became head of the commission. Throughout his life, he had great connections in the cultural aspects of UNESCO and had many interest in the International Bureau of Education (IBE). Subsequently, he held the presidency of the IBE council from 1986 to 1989.\n\nIn 2001, he was posthumously awarded the Comenius Medal at the forty-sixth session of the International Conference on Education held in Geneva.\n\nHe wrote a multitude of books including \"Birth of a civilization: the shock of globalization\" (co-authored with André Danzin), \"Lexique de la vie culturelle\", and \"Les Francais a Travers Leurs Romans\" (co-author Marc Blancpain), among others. He is listed as one of the 100 most famous educators by IBE.\n"}
