{"id": "29572974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29572974", "title": "A History of Horror", "text": "A History of Horror\n\nA History of Horror (also known as \"A History of Horror with Mark Gatiss\") is a 2010 three-part documentary series made for the BBC by British writer and actor Mark Gatiss. It is a personal exploration of the history of horror film, inspired by Gatiss's lifelong enthusiasm for the genre.\n\nThe documentary was directed by John Das (episodes one and three) and Rachel Jardine (episode two); series consultant was actor and film historian Jonathan Rigby. The series was initially broadcast in the United Kingdom on BBC Four from 11 to 25 October 2010. Each of the three episodes lasted 60 minutes.\n\nIt received strong reviews from the British press, the Irish press and independent review sites.\n\nIn the first episode, Gatiss explores the Golden Age of Hollywood horror, or the Universal era, the 1920s to 1940s. He looks at the silent film \"The Phantom of the Opera\" (1925), starring Lon Chaney, the first great horror talkie \"Dracula\" (1931), starring Béla Lugosi, and the later release of James Whale's \"Frankenstein\" (1931), featuring Boris Karloff. He focuses in particular on \"Son of Frankenstein\" (1939), a personal favourite which he feels has been neglected.\n\nThe episode includes interviews with John Carpenter, Sara Karloff, Gloria Stuart, Carla Laemmle, Donnie Dunagan, and Sheila Wynn (Lugosi's co-star in a 1951 Dracula tour).\n\nThe second episode focuses on the British Hammer Films of the 1950s and 1960s, which inspired Gatiss' childhood passion for horror. He meets key figures from Hammer to discuss the series of Frankenstein and Dracula films which made stars of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing, both of whom Gatiss argues are underrated talents. He also identifies a short-lived subgenre of British folk horror drawing on paganism and folklore, including \"Witchfinder General\" (1968), his personal favourite \"Blood on Satan's Claw\" (1970) and \"The Wicker Man\" (1973).\n\nThis episode includes interviews with writer-producer Anthony Hinds, writer-director Jimmy Sangster, director Roy Ward Baker, Barbara Steele, star of \"Black Sunday\" (1960), director-producer Roger Corman, director Piers Haggard, John Carpenter again, and actors Barbara Shelley and David Warner. Also included are archive interviews with Peter Cushing and Vincent Price.\n\nIn the third and final episode, Gatiss looks at American horror movies of the late 1960s and 1970s, including \"Night Of The Living Dead\" (1968) and \"The Texas Chain Saw Massacre\" (1974). As well as the emergence of slasher films, Gatiss examines the other great horror film trend of the era, the theme of Satanism and demonic possession in films such as \"Rosemary's Baby\" (1968), \"The Exorcist\" (1973) and \"The Omen\" (1976).\n\nThis episode includes interviews with writer David Seltzer and directors Tobe Hooper and George A. Romero, who also made \"Martin\" (1978), another personal favourite which Gatiss considers neglected. Gatiss meets David Warner, Barbara Steele and John Carpenter again, accompanying Carpenter on a tour of the set locations for \"Halloween\" (1978). He also visits the Bates Motel, the set location for Alfred Hitchcock's \"Psycho\" (1960).\n\nThe series was followed in October 2012 by \"Horror Europa\", a 90-minute exploration of European horror that reunited Gatiss with director John Das and consultant Jonathan Rigby.\n\nGatiss' interviewees included Harry Kümel, Annette Chaton (daughter of Thomas Narcejac), Édith Scob, Fabrizio Bava (grandson of Mario Bava), Dario Argento, Narciso Ibáñez Serrador, Jorge Grau, Guillermo del Toro, and Barbara Steele. Among films covered were \"Daughters of Darkness\", \"The Cabinet of Dr Caligari\", \"Nosferatu\", \"The Hands of Orlac\", \"Les Diaboliques\", \"Eyes Without a Face\", \"Black Sabbath\", \"Blood and Black Lace\", \"The Bird with the Crystal Plumage\", \"Suspiria\", \"La residencia\", \"Who Can Kill a Child?\", \"The Living Dead at Manchester Morgue\", \"The Devil's Backbone\", \"Pan's Labyrinth\", and \"Shivers\".\n\nThe documentary was previewed at London's National Film Theatre on 28 October (followed by an on-stage discussion between Gatiss, Das and Rigby) and first broadcast two days later.\n\n"}
{"id": "35814145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35814145", "title": "Ancient Egyptian flint jewelry", "text": "Ancient Egyptian flint jewelry\n\nFlint jewelry was known in the prehistoric, protodynastic, and early dynastic periods of ancient Egypt. Ancient Egyptians skillfully made bracelets and armlets out of flint.\n\nThe flint came from locations that include Giza and Upper Egypt. The exact technique used to form rings is not known, but there are several theories based on the examples that have been found in graves and workshops.\n\nFlint bracelets can be found in collections such as those in the Cairo Museum of Egyptian Antiquities, the Fitzwilliam Museum, the Pitt Rivers Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Brooklyn Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "473144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473144", "title": "Cavea", "text": "Cavea\n\nIn Roman times the cavea (Latin for \"enclosure\") referred to the seating sections of Roman theatres and amphitheatres. The cavea is traditionally organised in three horizontal sections, corresponding to the social class of the spectators:\nSimilarly the front row was called the prima cavea and the last row was called the cavea ultima. The \"cavea\" was further divided vertically into \"cunei\". A \"cuneus\" (Latin for \"wedge\"; plural, \"cunei\") was a wedge-shaped division separated by the \"scalae\" or stairways.\n"}
{"id": "50937447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50937447", "title": "Comparison of computer-assisted translation tools", "text": "Comparison of computer-assisted translation tools\n\nA number of computer-assisted translation software and websites exists for various platforms and access types. The list below includes only some of the existent and available software and website platforms.\n\nAccording to a 2006 survey undertaken by Imperial College of 874 translation professionals from 54 countries, primary tool usage was reported as follows: Trados (35%), Wordfast (17%), Déjà Vu (16%), SDL Trados 2006 (15%), SDLX (4%), STAR Transit (3%), OmegaT (3%), others (7%).\n"}
{"id": "37294273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37294273", "title": "Conflict (process)", "text": "Conflict (process)\n\nConflict refers to some form of friction, or discord arising within a group when the beliefs or actions of one or more members of the group are either resisted by or unacceptable to one or more members of another group.\nConflict can arise between members of the same group, known as intragroup conflict, or it can occur between members of two or more groups, and involve violence, interpersonal discord conflict.\nConflict in groups often follows a specific course. \"Routine group interaction\" is first disrupted by an \"initial conflict\", often caused by differences of opinion, disagreements between members, or scarcity of resources. At this point, the group is no longer united, and may split into coalitions. This period of \"conflict escalation\" in some cases gives way to a \"conflict resolution stage\", after which the group can eventually return to \"routine group interaction\n\nM.Ajit notes there is no single universally accepted definition of conflict. He notes that one issue of contention is whether the conflict is a situation or a type of behavior.\n\nCiting a review of definitions of organizational conflicts in 1990 by Robert A. Baron, Rakhim notes the following common elements in the definitions of conflict:\nBuilding on that, the proposed definition of conflict by Rakhim is \"an interactive process manifested in incompatibility, disagreement or dissonance within or between social entities.\" Rakhim also notes that a conflict may be limited to one individual, who is conflicted within himself (the intrapersonal conflict).\n\nTo take another definition of conflict, Michael Nicholson defines it as an activity which takes place when conscious beings (individuals or groups) wish to carry out mutually inconsistent acts concerning their wants, needs or obligations. Conflict is an escalation of a disagreement, which is its common prerequisite, and is characterized by the existence of conflict behavior, in which the beings are actively trying to damage one another. Rakhim lists some manifestations of conflict behavior, starting with disagreement, and followed by verbal abuse and interference.\n\nConflicts can occur between individuals, groups and organizations; examples include quarrels between individuals, labor strikes, competitive sports, or armed conflicts.\n\nA key player in inter-group relations and conflict is the collective sentiment a person’s own group (in-group) feels toward another group (out-group). These intergroup emotions are usually negative, and range in intensity from feelings of discomfort when interacting with a member of a certain other group to full on hatred for another group and its members. For example, in Fischer's organisational research at the University of Oxford, inter-group conflict was so 'heated' that it became mutually destructive and intractable, resulting in organizational collapse.\n\nOut-group-directed emotions can be expressed both verbally and non-verbally, and according to the stereotype content model, are dictated by two dimensions: the perceived warmth (How friendly and sincere is the other group?) and competence of the other group (How skillful is the other group?). Depending on the perceived degree of warmth and competence, the stereotype content model predicts four basic emotions that could be directed toward the out-group (Forsyth, 2006).\n\nConflict is rarely seen as constructive; however, in certain contexts (such as competition in sports), moderate levels of conflict can be seen as being mutually beneficial, facilitating understanding, tolerance, learning, and effectiveness. Sophia Jowett differentiates between content conflict, where individuals disagree about how to deal with a certain issue, and relational conflict, where individuals disagree about one another, noting that the content conflict can be beneficial, increasing motivation and stimulating discussion, whereas the relational conflicts decreases performance, loyalty, satisfaction and commitment, and causes individuals to be irritable, negative and suspicious. Irving Janis proposed that conflict is beneficial in groups and committees to avoid the error of \"group think\".\n\nJehn and Mannix have proposed a division of conflicts into three types: relationship, task, and process. Relationship conflict stems from interpersonal incompatibilities; task conflict is related to disagreements in viewpoints and opinion about a particular task, and process conflict refers to disagreement over the group’s approach to the task, its methods, and its group process. They note that although relationship conflict and process conflict are harmful, task conflict is found to be beneficial since it encourages diversity of opinions, although care should be taken so it does not develop into process or relationship conflict.\n\nTask conflict has been associated with two interrelated and beneficial effects. The first is group decision quality. Task conflict encourages greater cognitive understanding of the issue being discussed. This leads to better decision making for the groups that use task conflict.\n\nThe second is affective acceptance of group decisions. Task conflict can lead to increased satisfaction with the group decision and a desire to stay in the group.\n\nAmason and Sapienza in turn differentiate between affective and cognitive conflict, where cognitive conflict is task-oriented and arises from differences in perspective or judgment, and affective conflict is emotional and arises from personal differences and disputes.\n\nRoy Eidelson and Judy Eidelson (2003) investigated some of the important roles that beliefs may play in triggering or constraining conflict between groups. On the basis of a review of relevant literature, five belief domains stand out as especially noteworthy: Superiority, injustice, vulnerability, distrust and helplessness.\n\n1. Superiority\n\n2. Injustice\n\n3. Vulnerability\n\n4. Distrust\n\n5. Helplessness\n\nAlthough the involved parties may hope to reach a solution to their dispute quickly, psychological and interpersonal factors can frustrate their attempts to control the conflict, and in this case, conflict escalation occurs. A number of factors including increased commitment to one's position, use of harder influence tactics, and formation of coalitions propel the escalation of the conflict.\n\nAs conflicts escalate, group members' doubts and uncertainties are replaced with a firm commitment to their position. People rationalize their choices once they have made them: they seek out information that supports their views, reject information that disconfirms their views, and become more entrenched in their original position (also see confirmatory bias). Additionally, people believe that once they commit to a position publicly, they should stick with it. Sometimes, they may realize the shortcomings of their views, but they continue defending those views and arguing against their opponents just to save face. Finally, if the opponents argue too strongly, reactance may set in and group members become even more committed to the position.\n\nIndividuals' reactions to the conflict are shaped by their perception of the situation and people in the situation. During the conflict, opponents' inferences about each other's strengths, attitudes, values, and personal qualities tend to be largely distorted.\n\nDuring the conflict, people explain their opponents' actions in ways that make the problem worse. Fundamental attribution error occurs when one assumes that opponents' behavior was caused by personal (dispositional) rather than situational (environmental) factors. When conflict continues for a while, opponents might decide that this conflict is intractable. People usually expect intractable conflicts to be prolonged, intense, and very hard to resolve.\n\nDuring the conflict, opponents often become mistrustful of one another wondering if their cooperative motivations were replaced by competitive ones. This loss of trust makes it difficult to return to the cooperative relationship. People with competitive SVOs are the most inaccurate in their perception of opponents' motivation. They often think that others compete with them when in fact, there is no competition going on. Competitors are also more biased in their search for information that confirms their suspicions that others compete with them. They also tend to deliberately misrepresent their intentions, sometimes claiming to be more cooperatively oriented than they actually are.\n\nPeople use soft tactics at the outset of the conflict, but as it escalates, tactics become stronger and harder. To demonstrate this phenomenon, Mikolic, Parker, and Pruitt (1997) simulated a conflict situation by creating a \"birthday card factory\" with study participants who were paid a small amount for each card they manufactured using paper, colored markers, and ribbons. The work went well until researchers' confederate who posed as another participant started hoarding production materials. Initially, group members tried to solve the problem with statements and requests. When these methods failed they shifted to demands and complaints, and then to threats, abuse, and anger.\n\nAlthough hard tactics can overwhelm the opponent, they often intensify conflicts. Morton Deutsch and Robert Krauss (1960) used trucking game experiment to demonstrate that capacity to threaten others intensifies conflict. They also showed that establishing a communication link does not always help to solve the dispute. If one party threatens the other, the threatened party will fare best if it cannot respond with a counterthreat. Equally powerful opponents, however, learn to avoid the use of power if the fear of retaliation is high.\n\nIn many cases, upward conflict spirals are sustained by the norms of reciprocity: if one group or person criticizes the other, the criticized person or group feels justified in doing the same. In conflict situations, opponents often follow the norm of rough reciprocity, i.e. they give too much (overmatching) or too little (undermatching) in return. At low levels of conflict, opponents overmatch their threats, while at high levels of conflict they undermatch their threats. Overmatching may serve as a strong warning, while undermatching may be used to send conciliatory messages.\n\nWhen conflicts erupt, group members use coalitions to shift the balance of power in their favor, and it is typical for multiparty conflicts to reduce to two-party blocks over time. Coalitions contribute to the conflict because they draw more members of the group into the affray. Individuals in coalitions work not only to ensure their own outcomes but also to worsen outcomes of non-coalition members. Those who are excluded from the coalition react with hostility and try to regain power by forming their own coalition. Thus, coalitions need to be constantly maintained through strategic bargaining and negotiation.\n\nIt is generally difficult for most people to remain calm and collected in a conflict situation. However, an increase in negative emotions (i.e. anger) only exacerbates the initial conflict. Even when group members begin to discuss their positions calmly and dispassionately, once they become committed to their positions, an emotional expression often replaces logical discussion. Anger is also contagious: when group member negotiates with someone who is angry, they become angry themselves.\n\nNicholson notes that a conflict is resolved when the inconsistency between wishes and actions of parties is resolved. Negotiation is an important part of conflict resolution, and any design of a process which tries to incorporate positive conflict from the start needs to be cautious not to let it degenerate into the negative types of conflict.\n\nConflict is a social process that is exacerbated when individual members of a group take sides in the debate. Among the methods to resolve conflict is mediation of the dispute by a group member not currently involved in the dispute. More specifically, a mediator is defined as a person who attempts to resolve a conflict between two group members by intervening in this conflict. Put simply, the mediator can be thought of as a disinterested guide directs the disputants through the process of developing a solution to a disagreement (Forsyth, 2006).\n\nAlthough the tendency will be for group members who are uninvolved in the dispute to remain uninvolved, in some cases, the sheer intensity of the conflict may escalate to the point where mediation is unavoidable. Third party mediation of the conflict opens avenues for communication between group members in conflict. It allows members to express their opinions and request clarification of other member’s standpoints while the mediator acts as a form of protection against any shame or “loss of face” that either disputant may experience. This can be done by shedding a positive light on the reconciliation that was made during the mediation process. For instance, if it was negotiated that two cashiers will rotate the weekends they work, the mediator might point out that now each worker gets a weekend off every two weeks (Forsyth, 2006).\n\nThe mediator can also offer assistance in refining solutions and making counter-offers between members, adjusting the time and location of meetings so that they are mutually satisfying for both parties (Forsyth, 2006).\n\nAccording to Forsyth (2006), there are three major mediation approaches:\nInquisitorial procedure- Using this procedure, the mediator asks each of the disputants a series of questions, considers the two sets of responses, and then selects and imposes a mandatory solution on the members. The inquisitorial procedure is the least popular approach to mediation.\n\nArbitration- Here, mediation involves the two disputants explaining their arguments to the mediator, who creates a solution based on the arguments presented. Arbitration is best for low intensity conflict, but is the most favored mediation style overall.\n\nMoot- The moot approach involves an open discussion between disputants and the mediator about the problems and potential solutions. In the moot approach, the mediator cannot impose a mandatory solution. After arbitration, a moot is the most preferred mediation style.\n\nIn practice, conflict resolution is often interwoven with daily activities, as in organizations, workplaces and institutions. Staff and residents in a youth care setting, for instance, interweave everyday concerns (meals, lessons, breaks, meetings, or other mundane but concerted projects) with interpersonal disputes.\n\n"}
{"id": "20798405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20798405", "title": "Cord lock", "text": "Cord lock\n\nA plastic cord lock (also known as cord fastener, plastic stopper or cord toggle) attaches to drawstrings and tightens without the use of knots. Cord locks allow mountaineers to fasten clothing and camping equipment quickly in cold conditions when the fingers are encased in heavy gloves. They consist generally of three parts: a barrel, a toggle (plunger), and a spring. Squeezed together, tension is released and the cord lock can move freely up and down the cords. Released, the tension is engaged and the cord lock stays in place. They come in many sizes and shapes to suit to any purpose, including plastic cord lock, mini size cord lock, no spring cord lock, with spring cord lock, with rim cord lock.\n\nCord fasteners are used in many different applications to retain one or more cord segments or drawstrings in a tightened condition and to release such cord segments when desired. For example, cord locks are used in connection with garments that include drawstrings, such as hooded jackets and sweatshirts. Such fasteners are also used on various types of bags such as laundry bags and other storage bags that utilize cords to temporarily close an open end. They are also used in window blinds. They vary in size depending on the particular application, from long.\n\nOne of many variations of a cord lock was invented by Mark J. Krauss in 1986.\n"}
{"id": "1127239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127239", "title": "Cufflink", "text": "Cufflink\n\nCufflinks are items of jewelry that are used to secure the cuffs of dress shirts. Cufflinks can be manufactured from a variety of different materials, such as glass, stone, leather, metal, precious metal or combinations of these. Securing of the cufflinks is usually achieved via toggles or reverses based on the design of the front section, which can be folded into position. There are also variants with chains or a rigid, bent rear section. The front sections of the cufflinks can be decorated with gemstones, inlays, inset material or enamel and designed in two or three-dimensional form.\n\nCufflinks are designed only for use with shirts which have cuffs with buttonholes on both sides but no buttons. These may be either single or double-length (\"French\") cuffs, and may be worn either \"kissing\", with both edges pointing outward, or \"barrel-style\", with one edge pointing outward and the other one inward so that its hem is overlapped. In the US, the \"barrel-style\" was popularized by a famous 19th-century entertainer and clown, Dan Rice; however, \"kissing\" cuffs are usually preferred.\n\nCufflink designs vary widely, with the most traditional the \"double-panel\", consisting of a short post or (more often) chain connecting two disc-shaped parts, both decorated. Whale-back and toggle-back cufflinks have a flat decorated face for one side, while the other side shows only the swivel-bar and its post. The swivel bar is placed vertically (aligned with the post) to put the links on and off, then horizontally to hold them in place when worn. The decorated face on the most visible side is usually larger; a variety of designs can connect the smaller piece: It may be small enough to fit through the button hole like a button would; it may be separated and attached from the other side; or it may have a portion that swivels on the central post, aligning with the post while the link is threaded through the button-hole and swiveling into a position at right angles to the post when worn.\n\nLinks of knotted brightly coloured silk enjoyed renewed popularity in the 1990s, joined by an elasticated section.\n\nThe visible part of a cufflink is often monogrammed or decorated in some way, such as with a birthstone or something which reflects a hobby or association. There are numerous styles including novelty, traditional, or contemporary. Cufflinks can and have been worn with casual wear, informal attire or business suits, all the way to very dressy styles such as semi-formal (black tie or Stroller), and formal wear (morning dress or white tie), where they become essentially required and are matched with shirt studs. Colourful and whimsical cufflink designs are usually only suitable for casual and relatively informal events, and signals someone who is fun-loving, approachable, and friendly. However, formal wear has stricter expectations, with pearl cufflinks being preferred for white tie events Traditionally it was considered important to coordinate the metal of one's cufflinks with other jewelry such as watch case, belt buckle, tie bar or rings. Sartorial experts prescribe gold to be worn during the daytime and silver for evening wear, but neither expectation is considered as critical as it once was.\n\nAn alternative type of cufflink is the cheaper silk knot which is usually two conjoined monkey's fist or Turk's head knots. The Paris shirtmaker Charvet is credited with their introduction in 1904. They became quickly popular: \"Charvet [link] buttons of twisted braid are quite the style\" noted \"The New York Times\" in 1908. French cuff shirts are often accompanied with a set of colour-coordinated silk knots instead of double-button cufflinks. They are now often not from silk, and consist of a fabric over an elasticated core. Owing to the popularity of this fashion, metal cufflinks shaped to look like a silk knot are also worn.\n\nInterchangeable cufflinks have started to come back in to the marketplace in recent years. Cartier (jeweler) introduced their type in the 1960's consisting of a bar with a loop at either end that would allow a motif to be inserted at either end perpendicular to the bar. Cartier referred to the interchangeable motifs as batons. A set including the bars would come with batons made from coral, carnelian, lapis lazuli, rock crystal, onyx, tiger's eye and malachite. Bars would have been made from stainless steel, sterling silver or 18k gold.\n\nCartier recently re-introduced these interchangeable cufflinks with batons made from striped chalcedony, silver obsidian, malachite, sodalite, and red tiger’s eye. The accompanying bars are made from 18k gold or palladium plated sterling silver. The securing mechanism is the same for either series using a small screw inset in to the looped end of the bar. The pressure exerted a by the screw on the baton holds them in place.\n\nAnother type of interchangeable system was created by pranga & co. The patent-pending cufflink system comes apart allowing the motif, referred to as an anker, to slide on. Putting the cufflink back together secures the anker into the cufflink allowing it to be worn. pranga & co's cufflink is simple and similar in concept to charm bracelet bead systems popularized by companies like Pandora Jewelry. The ankers used in the cufflinks are interchangeable with various charm bracelets systems and visa-versa.\n\nAlthough the first cufflinks appeared in the 1600s, they did not become common until the end of the 18th century. Their development is closely related to that of the men's shirt. Men have been wearing shirt-like items of clothing since the invention of woven fabric 5,000 years BC. Although styles and methods of manufacturing changed, the underlying form remained the same: a tunic opened to the front with sleeves and collar. The shirt was worn directly next to the skin, it was washable and thereby protected the outer garments from contact with the body. Conversely, it also protected the skin against the rougher and heavier fabrics of jackets and coats by covering the neck and wrists.\n\nAfter the Middle Ages the visible areas of the shirt (neck, chest and wrists) became sites of decorative elements such as frills, ruffs and embroidery. The cuffs were held together with ribbons, as were collars, an early precursor of neckties. Frills that hung down over the wrist were worn at court and other formal settings until the end of the 18th century, whilst in the everyday shirts of the time the sleeves ended with a simple ribbon or were secured with a button or a connected pair of buttons.\n\nIn the 19th century the former splendour of the aristocracy was superseded by the bourgeois efficiency of the new employed classes. From then onward men wore a highly conventional wardrobe: a dark suit by day, a dinner jacket or tailcoat in the evening. By the middle of the 19th century the modern cufflink became popular. The shirt front as well as collar and cuffs covering areas of the most wear were made sturdier. This was practical but when clean and starched, collars and cuffs underscored the formal character of the clothing. However, they could be too stiff to secure the cuffs with a simple button. As a consequence, from the mid 19th century onward men in the middle and upper classes wore cufflinks. The industrial revolution meant that these could be mass-produced, making them available in every price category.\n\nColoured cufflinks made from gemstones were initially only worn by men with a great deal of self-confidence, however. This situation changed when the Prince of Wales, later Edward VII, popularised colourful Fabergé cufflinks in the 19th century. During this time cufflinks became fashion accessories and one of the few acceptable items of jewellery for men in Britain and the U.S.\n\nThis development continued into the early 1900s, with more cufflinks worn than ever before. These were available in every type of form, colour and material, incorporating both gemstones and less precious stones and glass in cheaper copies. Intricate coloured enamelled cufflinks in every conceivable geometric pattern were especially popular. All of these were of equal value, as Coco Chanel had made fashion jewellery acceptable to wear. In a parallel development, however, a sportier style of shirt emerged with unstarched cuffs that could be secured with simple buttons.\n\nThis spread to Europe as well over the same period. In Germany, Idar-Oberstein and Pforzheim were key centres of cufflink production. Whilst in Idar-Oberstein cufflinks were produced using simple materials for the more modest budget, the Pforzheim jewellery manufacturers produced for the medium and upper segments using genuine gold and silver. In Pforzheim premium cufflinks are still produced today, some of them to historic patterns, some modern, all of them using traditional craftsmanship.\n\nFollowing the end of shortages related to the Second World War, into the 1950s a gentleman liked to adorn himself with a whole range of accessories, comprising items such as cigarette case, lighter, tie pin or tie bar, watch (now worn mostly on the wrist instead of the pocket), ring, key chain, money clip, etc., an ensemble that also included a wide range of cufflinks.\nIn the 1970s cufflinks were less emphasized in much of middle class fashion. Fashion was dominated by the Woodstock generation, with shirts primarily manufactured complete with buttons and buttonholes. Many fine heirlooms were reworked into earrings.\n\nThe 1980s saw a return to traditional cufflinks, as part of a general revival in traditional male dress. This trend has more or less continued to this day.\n\nCufflinks pose designers a challenge as there is little leeway for their design: the cufflink must fit snugly and if different motifs are chosen for the four buttons of a pair, these must go well with one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2664285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2664285", "title": "Culture of the Maldives", "text": "Culture of the Maldives\n\nThe culture of the Maldives is derived from a number of sources, the most important of which is its proximity to the shores of Sri Lanka and South India. The population is mainly Indo-Aryan from the anthropological point of view.\n\nThe Dhivehi language is of Indo-Iranian Sanskritic origin and therefore closely related to Sinhala, which points at a later influence from the north of the subcontinent. According to legends, the kingly dynasty that ruled the Maldives in the past has its origin there.\n\nThese ancient kings may have brought Buddhism from the subcontinent, but it is not clear. In Sri Lanka, there are similar legends, but it is improbable that the ancient Maldive royals and Buddhism came both from that island, because none of the Sri Lankan chronicles mentions the Maldives. It is unlikely that the ancient chronicles of Sri Lanka would have failed to mention the Maldives, if a branch of its kingdom had extended itself to the Maldive Islands.\n\nSince the 12th century AD, there have also been influences from Arabia in the language and culture of the Maldives, because of the general conversion to Islam at that time, and its location as a crossroads in the central Indian Ocean.\n\nIn the islands' culture, there are a few elements of African origin as well, from slaves brought to the court by the Royal family and nobles from their Hajj journeys to Arabia in the past. There are islands like Feridhu and Maalhos in Northern Ari Atoll, and Goidhu in Southern Maalhosmadulhu Atoll where many of the inhabitants trace their ancestry to released African slaves.\n\nThe status of women in the Maldives was traditionally fairly high, as attested to in part by the existence of four Sultanas. Women do not veil, nor are they strictly secluded, but special sections are reserved for women in public places, such as stadiums and mosques. Women do not accept their husbands' names after marriage but maintain their maiden names. Inheritance of property is through both males and females.\n\nWomen have always had an important role in the family and community. In the early history of Maldives, it was not uncommon to have a woman as a Sultana or ruler and it has been suggested that the society was once a matriarchy.\nIn today's society women hold strong positions in government and business. A large percentage of government employees are women. The male female ratio of enrollment and completion of education to secondary school standards remains equivalent. Women serve in the cabinet and the Parliament.\n\nMaldivian culture shares many aspects of a strong matriarchal tradition with ancient Dravidian culture. A unique feature of Maldivian society is a very high divorce rate, which has been attributed by some as due to early marriage. Others have seen this extremely high divorce rate as reflecting the combination of liberal Islamic rules about divorce and the relatively loose marital bonds that may be produced by the lack of a history of fully developed agriculture and the accompanying codes of agrarian honor and property relations.\n\nPolygamy in the Maldives is legal, though such unions have been reported to be very uncommon. Even so, fifty-nine polygamous marriages took place in 1998. Polygamy is also specifically covered by a 2001 Maldivian law, which orders courts to assess a man's finances before letting him take another wife.\n\nProstitution in the Maldives is illegal and foreigners who engage in prostitution can expect to be deported and Maldivians can expect a prison sentence.\n\nHomosexuality in the Maldives was criminalised in the 1880s.\n\nPublic holidays in the Maldives include both civilian dates as well as Islamic religious holidays.\n\nThe cuisine of Maldives is mainly fish as the fishing industry is the second-largest industry in the country. Daily meals include rice and fish, the most common foods, with fish being the most important source of protein in the average diet. Very few vegetables are eaten due to a lack of farming land in the country. Elders smoke \"guduguda\", an elongated pipe that goes through a trough of water. Most food served in tourist resorts is imported. On ceremonial occasions, meat other than pork is eaten. Alcohol is not permitted except at tourist resorts. The local brew \"raa\" is consumed instead of alcoholic beverages. Basic commodities such as rice, sugar, and flour are imported.\n\nThe Maldivian folklore is the body of myths, tales and anecdotes belonging to the oral tradition of Maldivians. Even though some of the Maldivian myths were already mentioned briefly by British commissioner in Ceylon HCP Bell towards the end of the 19th century, their study and publication were carried out only quite recently by Spanish writer and artist Xavier Romero-Frias, at a time when that ancestral worldview was quickly disappearing.\nCulturally, Maldivians feel some affinity to Northern India through their language, which is related to the languages of North India. Most older generation Maldivians like to watch Hindi movies and listen to Hindi songs. Many popular Maldivian songs are based on Hindi tunes. The reason is that out of a similar language, similar rhythms and cadences develop. In fact, it is very easy for Maldivians to fit local lyrics to a Hindi song.\nBollywood songs are among the most popular songs in Maldives, especially the old ones from Mohammad Rafi, Mukesh, Lata Mangeshkar, and Asha Bhonsle. Therefore, most local Maldivian dances and songs are based in (or influenced by) North Indian \"Kathak\" dances and Hindi songs.\n\nThe favourite musical instrument of Maldivians is the \"bulbul tarang\", a kind of horizontal accordion. This instrument is also used to accompany devotional songs, like \"Maulūd\" and \"Maadhaha\". The \"Bodu Beru\" (literally \"Big Drum\") drumming performances are said to have African roots.\n\nThe Maldives has its own film industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2727051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2727051", "title": "Dominance (ethology)", "text": "Dominance (ethology)\n\nDominance in ethology is an \"individual's preferential access to resources over another.\" Dominance in the context of biology and anthropology is the state of having high social status relative to one or more other individuals, who react submissively to dominant individuals. This enables the dominant individual to obtain access to resources such as food or potential mates at the expense of the submissive individual, without active aggression. The absence or reduction of aggression means unnecessary energy expenditure and the risk of injury are reduced for both. The opposite of dominance is submissiveness.\n\nDominance may be a purely dyadic relationship, i.e. individual A is dominant over individual B, but this has no implications for whether either of these is dominant over a third individual C. Alternatively, dominance may be hierarchical, with a transitive relationship, so that if A dominates B and B dominates C, A always dominates C. This is called a linear dominance hierarchy. Some animal societies have despots, i.e. a single dominant individual with little or no hierarchical structure amongst the rest of the group. Horses use coalitions so that affiliated pairs in a herd have an accumulative dominance to displace a third horse that normally out-ranks both of them on an individual basis.\n\nDominance may initially be established by fighting, or simply by threatening displays or interchanges. Once established, however, dominance is usually maintained by agonistic (competitive) behaviours with aggression considerably reduced or sometimes absent. In the maintenance of dominance relationships, the behaviour of the sub-dominant animal is critical. If a dominant animal perceives its status is being threatened, it will likely threaten the sub-dominant individual. The sub-dominant must then either escalate the intensity of the interaction to challenge the dominant, or defer. In this way, it is often the behaviour of the sub-dominant animal that maintains the dominance relationship, rather than the dominant.\n\nThe ultimate function of a dominance hierarchy is to increase the individual or inclusive fitness of the animals involved in its formation. Fighting to acquire resources such as food and mates is expensive in terms of time, energy and the risk of injury. By developing a dominance hierarchy, animals determine which individuals will get priority of access to resources, particularly when they are limited; there is a reduction in aggression once a pecking order has been developed. Therefore, the proximate functions of a pecking order are to reduce the costs of time, energy and risk of injury incurred during resource acquisition and defense.\n\nA dominant animal is one whose sexual, feeding, aggressive and other behavior patterns subsequently occur with relatively little influence of the other group members. Subordinate animals are opposite; their behavior can be relatively easily influenced or inhibited by other group members. For many animal societies, an individual's position in the dominance hierarchy corresponds with their opportunities to reproduce, however, in other animal societies, the dominance hierarchy may be unrelated to (potential) opportunities to reproduce, e.g. naked mole-rat, bees and many farm, laboratory, zoo and companion animals. Studies have shown there is a strong association between high testosterone levels and dominance behaviors that help enhance mating success in men.\n\nIn hierarchical societies, dominant individuals may exert control over others. For example, in a herd of feral goats it is a large male that is dominant and maintains discipline and coherence of the flock. He leads the group but shares leadership on a foraging expedition with an old she-goat who will normally outlast a succession of\ndominant males. However, earlier work showed that leadership orders in goats was not related to age or dominance.\n\nIn sheep, position in a moving flock is highly correlated with social dominance, but there is no definite study to show consistent voluntary leadership by an individual sheep.\n\nIn birds, dominant individuals will preferentially select higher perches to put themselves in the best position to detect and avoid predators, as well as to display their dominance to con-specifics. \n\nIt has been suggested, however, that more commonly, decision-taking about the actions of the group is dissociated from social dominance.\n\nThe first published systematic study of dominance in animals was by Thorleif Schjelderup-Ebbe who described in his Ph.D. dissertation of 1921, the social behaviour and priority of access to food by hens.\n\nDominance can be measured by the number of times that individuals defer to one another in social interactions, by the length of time that resources are preferentially accessed, by the number/intensity of threats given or other agonistic (competitive) behaviours. The measurement of dominance is only applicable within the group it is measured since it is a function of the individual members of the group.\n\nDominance and its organisation can be highly variable depending on the context or individuals involved.\n\nIn European badgers, dominance relationships may vary with time as individuals age, gain or lose social status, or change their reproductive condition. Dominance may also vary across space in territorial animals as territory owners are often dominant over all others in their own territory but submissive elsewhere, or dependent on the resource. Even with these factors held constant, perfect dominance hierarchies are rarely found in groups of any great size, at least in the wild. Dominance hierarchies may be more frequently found in captivity, since hierarchies tend to be induced by focused resources such as limited supplies of food supplied in a fixed place.\n\nDominance hierarchies in small herds of domestic horses are generally linear hierarchies whereas in large herds the relationships are triangular.\n\nDominance hierarchies can be formed at a very early age. Domestic piglets are highly precocious and within minutes of being born, or sometimes seconds, will attempt to suckle. The piglets are born with sharp teeth and fight to develop a teat order as the anterior teats produce a greater quantity of milk. Once established, this teat order remains stable with each piglet tending to feed from a particular teat or group of teats.\n\nDominance–subordination relationships can vary markedly between breeds of the same species. Studies on Merinos and Border Leicesters revealed an almost linear hierarchy in the Merinos but a less rigid structure in the Border Leicesters when a competitive feeding situation was created.\n\n4. Romero, Teresa, and Miguel Castellanos.(2010) Journal of Ethology, pg. 113-121.\n"}
{"id": "1959481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959481", "title": "Dressmaker", "text": "Dressmaker\n\nA dressmaker is a person who makes custom clothing for women, such as dresses, blouses, and evening gowns. A dressmaker is also called a mantua-maker (historically) or a modiste.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31878245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31878245", "title": "Dutch Republic Lion", "text": "Dutch Republic Lion\n\nThe Dutch Republic Lion (also known as States Lion) was the badge of the Union of Utrecht, the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands and is a precursor of the current coat of arms of the Kingdom the Netherlands.\n\nThere are three main heraldic motifs of the Low Countries. The black lion on gold of Flanders (see Coat of arms of Flanders), its inverse the gold lion on black of Brabant, and the red lion on gold of Holland. \nThere is one more lion of note, the red lion on blue and white bars of Luxembourg, as their ruling family sat on the imperial throne as Holy Roman Emperors:\n\nThe Flemish lion derives from the arms of the Counts of Flanders. Their first appearance is on a seal of Count Philip of Alsace, count of Flanders from 1168 to 1191, dating from 1163. As such they constitute the oldest of the many territorial arms bearing a lion in the Low Countries. It is said that Philip of Alsace brought the lion flag with him from the Holy land, where in 1177 he supposedly conquered it from a Saracen knight, but this is a myth. However, Count Philip was not the first of his line to bear a lion, for his cousin, William of Ypres, already used a seal with a lion passant in 1158. The simple fact that the lion appeared on his personal seal since 1163, when he had not yet set one step in the Levant, disproves it.\n\nIn the same period lions also appeared in the arms of Brabant, Luxembourg, Holland, Limburg and other territories, most importantly England. It is curious that the lion as a heraldic symbol was mostly used in border territories and neighbouring countries of the Holy Roman Empire and France. It was in all likelihood a way of showing independence from the emperor, who used an eagle in his personal arms and the King of France, who used the famous Fleur-de-lis. In Europe the lion had been a well-known figure since Roman times, through works such as the fables of Aesop. In the story about the Guldensporenslag, the arms and its corresponding battlecry \"Vlaendr'n den leeuw\" (\"Flanders, the Lion!\") plays a crucial role in the forming of a Flemish consciousness, which was popularised in recent times by the book \"De Leeuw van Vlaanderen\" by Hendrik Conscience. As a result, the arms of the county live on as arms of the Flemish Community.\n\nThe Arms of Brabant were first used probably by Count Lambert I of Louvain, the lion is also documented in a 1306 town's seal of Kerpen, together with the red lion of Limburg. Today these arms are used by the Kings of the Belgians.\n\nThese lions are repeated in many arms in the Netherlands, of various noble houses (see ) and in the arms of other provinces:\n\nWhen the county of Flanders was inherited by the Dukes of Burgundy in 1405, the Flemish lion was placed on an escutcheon in their dynastic arms (see or Armorial of Dukes of Burgundy). The same happened with the duchy of Brabant (and its dependent duchy of Limburg) in 1430, but oddly not the county of Holland in 1432. These passed with the rest of the Burgundian inheritance to the House of Habsburg in 1482. Their descendants, the Kings of Spain (see Monarchy of Spain bear the title and arms of the county of Flanders (Holland was renounced in 1648 with the Treaty of Westphalia) and the duchy of Brabant to this day (see Coat of arms of the King of Spain and List of titles and honours of the Spanish Crown).\n\nThe lion, as representing the Burgundian Netherlands, first appears as a crest on the tomb of Philip the Handsome. Later Charles V added the sword. The arrows were used, on coins etc., since the early 16th century to represent the Seventeen Provinces in the low countries under control of Charles V. \n\nIn 1578, during the Eighty Years' War, the States General ordered a new great seal representing the lion, the sword and the 17 arrows combined. Although only seven provinces remained free from Spain, this seal stayed in use until 1795.\n\nAfter the completion of its forming in 1584 the Republic of the Seven United Provinces used as its arms: Or a crowned lion Gules armed and langued Azure, holding in his dexter paw a sword and in the sinister paw seven arrows tight together Azure. The colours of this version where derived from the most important of the seven provinces, the county of Holland (its arms are still in use since being adopted by the counts of Holland c. 1198).\n\nThe tinctures were inverted in 1665 to a gold lion on red to be more representative of all the provinces of the union. \nWhen the provinces of Brabant, Gelderland, Flanders, Holland, Zeeland, Friesland, Mechelen and Utrecht on 26 July 1581 signed the Act of Abjuration declaring their independence from Spain and Philip II, these arms became the arms of the new nation.\n\nThe sovereignty of the federal union was emphasized by the title of the States General \"their Noble Mightinesses, the Lords States-General\" or, in Dutch, \"Den Heeren Hoog-Mogenden, Den Heeren Staten-Generaal der Verenigde Provinciën der Nederlanden\"). and by a crown on the lion in their arms.\n\nThe number of arrows changed over time. At first there were 17, despite the fact that the Union of Utrecht counted 11 districts after the Fall of Antwerp in 1585. It was hoped by William the Silent that all the Seventeen Provinces of the Netherlands would eventually be united. However, this was not to be, and so it was eventually changed to 11, and with the Reduction of Groningen to 7. The number of arrows on the arms fixed at 7 in 1606, but the seal still remained with 17 arrows until 1795.\n\nAt the time of the Dutch declaration of independence the territory under nominal States-General control was steadily shrinking. Parma made steady progress. Orange had already been convinced that the only way to avert total defeat was to regain support of the moderates, alienated by Calvinist radicalism; reassure the still-loyal Catholics in the South; and retain the trust of the German Lutheran princes and the king of France. To attain these objectives he now persuaded the States-General to offer sovereignty over the Netherlands to the younger brother of Henry III of France, François, Duke of Anjou, who in 1578 had already intervened on behalf of the States-General. The latter arrived in Antwerp in January 1581, where he took an oath to in effect govern as a \"constitutional monarch\", and was acclaimed by the States-General as Protector of the Netherlands.\n\nUnfortunately, Orange's attempt to paper over the disunity within the States-General by bringing in Anjou did not succeed. Holland and Zeeland acknowledged him perfunctorily, but mainly ignored him, and of the other members of the Union of Utrecht Overijssel, Gelderland and Utrecht never even recognised him.\n\nAt the time of his sovereignty, Anjou replaced the Generality Lion by arms that he himself designed incorporating all the arms of the, at that time, nine Dutch rebellious provinces with France.\nAnjou himself was dissatisfied with his limited power, and decided to take the Flemish cities of Antwerp, Bruges, Dunkirk, and Ostend by force. He decided personally to lead the attack on Antwerp on 18 January 1583. In an attempt to fool the citizens of Antwerp, Anjou asked to be permitted to make a \"Joyous Entry\" into the city in order to honour them with a parade. As soon as his troopers entered, the gates of Antwerp were slammed shut behind them and the citizen militia attacked them. Anjou barely escaped with his life and nearly his entire army perished, an affair known as the French Fury.\n\nAfter that the States-General re-established the previous arms.\n\nThe Batavian Republic founded in 1795 used in its first year the arms of the Dutch Republic, i.e. the Dutch lion or lion with crown, sheaf of arrows and swords. But on May 4, 1796, the Dutch Lion badge was replaced by a free drawing of the Netherlands Maiden around an altar with an anchor, and the States Lion with her.\n\nThe substitution in 1801 of the Batavian Republic by the Batavian Commonwealth, whose main feature was a stronger Grand Pensionary acting the part locally of the First Counsul Bonaparte also had its impact on heraldry. On April 12, 1802, it was decided that the new badge of the Commonwealth would be a golden lion on a red field again. The number of arrows that bears the lion in the leg was not established. This remained in use until the Kingdom of Holland was formed in 1806 for Napoleon's brother, installed as King Louis I of Holland.\n\nNapoleon's brother Louis Bonaparte was installed as King of Holland on 5 June 1806. Originally the arms of the new kingdom were to be like those of the Kingdom of Italy: an eagle bearing a shield, with the arms of the United Netherlands, the lion, now royally crowned. In December 1806, A. Renodi in Paris designed arms quartering the Napoleonic eagle with the lion of the United Netherlands. Around the shield was the French Order of the Grand Aigle. Behind the shield are crossed sceptres, typical for Napoleonic heraldry, and above the shield, Napoleon's star.\n\nA few months later, on 20 May 1807, King Louis (now called \"Lodewijk\") altered these arms, adding a helmet, leaving out his brother’s star and replacing the Grand Aigle with his own Dutch Order of the Union and the old Dutch devise \"Eendracht maakt macht\" (\"Unity makes strength\") around the shield. Exemplary for the innovation in Napoleon's heraldry are the two hands coming out of clouds from behind the shield holding swords, designating King Louis as \"Connétable de France\".\n\nWhen William VI of Orange returned to the Netherlands in 1813 and was proclaimed Sovereign Prince of the Netherlands, he quartered the former Arms of the Dutch Republic (1st and 4th quarter) with the \"Châlon-Orange\" arms (2nd and 3rd quarter), which had come to symbolize Orange. As an in escutcheon he placed his ancestral arms of Nassau. (See House of Orange-Nassau) When he became King in 1815, he combined the Dutch Republic Lion with the billets of the Nassau arms and added a royal crown to form the Coat of arms of the Netherlands. In 1907, Queen Wilhelmina replaced the royal crown on the lion and the shield bearers of the arms with a coronet and had the phallus of the lion removed.\n\n"}
{"id": "25273305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25273305", "title": "Eternal statement", "text": "Eternal statement\n\nAn eternal statement is a statement whose token instances all have the same truth value. For instance, every inscription or utterance of the sentence \"On July 15, 2009 it rains in Boston\" has the same truth value, no matter when or where it is asserted. This type of statement is distinguished from others in that its context will not influence its truth value. Essentially, an eternal statement is a true statement, regardless of how it used. \n\n"}
{"id": "3512505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3512505", "title": "Grace (prayer)", "text": "Grace (prayer)\n\nA grace is a short prayer or thankful phrase said before or after eating. The term most commonly refers to Christian traditions. Some traditions hold that grace and thanksgiving imparts a blessing which sanctifies the meal. In English, reciting such a prayer is sometimes referred to as \"saying grace\". The term comes from the Ecclesiastical Latin phrase \"gratiarum actio\", \"act of thanks.\" In Christian theology, the act of saying grace is derived from the Bible, in which Jesus and Saint Paul pray before meals (cf. , ). The practice reflects the belief that humans should thank God who is the origin of everything.\n\n\nBefore eating, a blessing is said based on the category of food that is being eaten. The categories are: (i) Bread, (ii) fruits that grow on a tree, (iii) fruits/vegetables that do not grow on a tree, (iv) derivates of the five grains (except for bread, which has its own blessing), (v) derivatives of grapes and (vi) everything else. \n\nThe Jewish mealtime prayer, after eating a meal that includes bread, is known as Birkat Hamazon. If the meal does not include bread, a blessing after the meal is recited based on the category of food that was eaten. \nWith the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem in 70 AD, the offering of the prescribed sacrifices ceased in Judaism. Thereafter, the Rabbis prescribed the substitution of other ritual actions to fill this void in Jewish obedience to the Torah. The ritual washing of hands and eating of salted bread is considered to be a substitute for the sacrificial offerings of the kohanim (Jewish priests).\n\nThough there are separate blessings for fruit, vegetables, non-bread grain products, and meat, fish, and dairy products, a meal is not considered to be a meal in the formal sense unless bread is eaten. The duty of saying grace after the meal is derived from : \"And thou shalt eat and be satisfied and shalt bless the Lord thy God for the goodly land which he has given thee.\" Verse 8 of the same chapter says: \"The land of wheat and barley, of the vine, the fig and the pomegranate, the land of the oil olive and of [date] syrup.\" Hence only bread made of wheat (which embraces spelt) or of barley (which for this purpose includes rye and oats) is deemed worthy of the blessing commanded in verse 10.\n\nAfter the meal, a series of four (originally three) benedictions are said, or a single benediction if bread was not eaten.\n\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith has these two prayers, which are meant for those who wish to thank God before they eat:\n\n\"He is God! Thou seest us, O my God, gathered around this table, praising Thy bounty, with our gaze set upon Thy Kingdom. O Lord! Send down upon us Thy heavenly food and confer upon us Thy blessing. Thou art verily the Bestower, the Merciful, the Compassionate.\"\n\n\"He is God! How can we render Thee thanks, O Lord? Thy bounties are endless and our gratitude cannot equal them. How can the finite utter praise of the Infinite? Unable are we to voice our thanks for Thy favors and in utter powerlessness we turn wholly to Thy Kingdom beseeching the increase of Thy bestowals and bounties. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, the Almighty.\"\n\nHindus use the 24th verse of the 4th chapter of Bhagavad Gita as the traditional prayer or blessing before a meal. Once the food is blessed it becomes Prasad, or sanctified as holy\n\n\"Brahmaarpanam Brahma Havir\"<br>\n\"Brahmaagnau Brahmanaa Hutam\"<br>\n\"Brahmaiva Tena Gantavyam\"<br>\n\"Brahma Karma Samaadhinah\"<br>\"\n\nWhich translates as 'The act of offering is God (Brahma), the oblation is God, By God it is offered into the fire of God, God is That which is to be attained by him who sees God in all.'\n\nSometimes, the 14th verse from the 15th chapter of Bhagavad Gita is used:\n\n\"Aham Vaishvaanaro Bhutva\"<br>\n\"Praaninaam Dehamaashritha\"<br>\n\"Praanaapaana Samaa Yuktaha\"<br>\n\"Pachaamyannam Chatur Vidam\"<br>\"\n\nThis translates as 'Becoming the life-fire in the bodies of living beings, mingling with the upward and downward breaths, I digest the four kinds of food.'\n\nTraditional Maharashtrian grace invokes the Lord through the shloka of Sant Ramdas namely:\n\nvadani kaval gheta naam ghya shri-hariche l\nsahaj havan hote naam gheta phukache l\njivan kari jivitva anna he purn-brahma l\nudar-bharan nohe janije yadnya-karma ll 1 ll\n\njani bhojani naam vache vadave l\nati aadare gadya-ghoshe mhanave l\nharichintane anna sevit jaave l\ntari srihari pavijeto swabhave ll 2 ll\n\nThis translates as: Take the name of the Lord when putting a morsel into your mouth.\n\nIn Japan it is customary to put one's hands together and say \"Itadakimasu\" (\"I humbly receive\") before eating a meal.\n\nIn Korea, it is customary to say \"Jal meokgesseumnida\" (잘 먹겠습니다) (\"I will eat well'). The saying is not religious in nature, and usually only occurs when eating with someone else.\n\nIn certain Boy Scout circles, especially in Missouri, the \"S-F\" grace (named after the S-F Scout Ranch in Knob Lick, Missouri) is often said, especially when people at the table are of mixed religions. The S-F grace gives thanks to a \"great Spirit\", but is not affiliated with any one religion.\n\nAnother common Boy Scout grace is the \"Philmont Grace\" (named after the Philmont Scout Ranch in New Mexico) or the \"Wilderness Grace\". It can be found in use wherever a troop has gone to Philmont, but is most common in the Western half of the United States. It goes: \" For food, for raiment, / For life, for opportunities, / For friendship and fellowship, / We thank thee, O Lord.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41583483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41583483", "title": "Hans (magazine)", "text": "Hans (magazine)\n\nHans is a Hindi monthly literary magazine published from Delhi. The magazine was first started by pioneer of modern Hindi literature Premchand in 1930, and revived in 1986 by Rajendra Yadav, a noted short-story writer and novelist.\n\nIn 1930, \"Hans\" began publication under the editorship of Premchand. Mahatma Gandhi and K. M. Munshi. They were associated with \"Hans\" to provide an impetus to creative writing. It became a forum projecting national problems and encouraged socially relevant fiction during the struggle for Indian independence. \n\nIn 1936 Hans ceased publication following the death of Premchand. The magazine was revived in 1986 with Rajendra Yadav as editor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1397196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1397196", "title": "Hindi Belt", "text": "Hindi Belt\n\nThe Hindi Belt or Hindi Desh, sometimes referred to as the Hindi-Urdu Region, is a linguistic region in north-central India where Hindi (and the various languages/dialects grouped under it) and Urdu are widely spoken. Hindi belt is sometimes also used to refer to nine Indian states whose official language is Hindi and have a Hindi-speaking majority, namely Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand , Uttar Pradesh and National Capital Territory of Delhi.\n\nHindi is part of the Indo-Aryan dialect continuum that lies within the cultural Hindi Belt in the northern plains of India. Hindi in this broad sense is a linguistic rather than an ethnic concept.\n\nThis definition of Hindi is one of the ones used in the Indian census, and results in more than forty percent of Indians being reported to be speakers of Hindi, though Hindi-area respondents vary as to whether they call their language Hindi or use a local language name to distinguish their language from Hindi. As defined in the 1991 census, Hindi has a broad and a narrow sense. The name \"Hindi\" is thus ambiguous. Before being identified as a separate language Maithili was identified as a Hindi dialect. Many such languages unrelated to Hindi still struggle for recognition.\n\nThe broad sense covers a number of Central, East-Central, Eastern, and Northern Zone languages, including the Bihari languages except Maithili, all the Rajasthani languages, and the Central Pahari languages. This is an area bounded on the west by Punjabi and Sindhi; on the south by Gujarati, Marathi, and Odia; on the east by Maithili and Bengali; and on the north by Nepali, Kashmiri, and Tibetic languages. The varieties of this belt can be considered separate languages rather than dialects of a single language.\n\nIn the narrow sense, the Hindi languages proper, Hindi can be equated with the Central Zone Indic languages. These are conventionally divided into Western Hindi and Eastern Hindi. An even narrower definition of Hindi is that of the official language, Modern Standard Hindi or \"Manak Hindi\", a standardised register of Hindustani, one of the varieties of Western Hindi. Standardised Hindustani—including both Manak Hindi and Urdu—is historically based on the Khariboli dialect of 17th-century Delhi.\n\nPopulation data from the 16th (2009) edition of \"Ethnologue\" is as follows, counting languages with two million or more speakers: \n\nAccording to the 2001 Indian census, 258 million people in India (25% of the population) regarded their native language to be \"Hindi\", however, including other Hindi dialects this figure becomes 422 million Hindi speakers (41% of the population). These figures do not count 52 million Indians who considered their mother tongue to be \"Urdu\". The numbers are also not directly comparable to the table above; for example, while independent estimates in 2001 counted 37 million speakers of Awadhi, in the 2001 census only 2½ million of these identified their language as \"Awadhi\" rather than as \"Hindi\".\n\nMuch of the Hindi spoken outside of the subcontinent is quite distinct from the Indian standard language. Most Pakistani speakers, and some Muslim Indian speakers, call their version of Hindustani \"Urdu\" rather than \"Hindi\" or \"Hindustani\". Religious proponents both of Hindi and of Urdu often contend that they are two separate languages despite their mutual intelligibility.\n\nMauritian Hindi is spoken in Mauritius. It is based on Bhojpuri and influenced by French. Sarnami is a form of Bhojpuri with Awadhi influence. It spoken by Indo-Surinamese. Fiji Hindi is a derived form of Awadhi, Bhojpuri, and including some English and very few native Fijian words. It is spoken by Indo-Fijians. Trinidadian Hindustani and Guyanese is based on Bhojpuri, Awadhi, and Standard Hindi and is spoken in Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana by Indo-Trinidadians and Indo-Guyanese. South African Hindi is based on Bhojpuri, Awadhi, and Standard Hindi is spoken by Indian South Africans.\n\nThe highly fertile, flat, alluvial Gangetic plain occupies the northern portion of the Hindi Heartland, the Vindhyas in Madhya Pradesh demarcate the southern boundary and the hills and dense forests of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh lie in the east. The region has a predominantly subtropical climate, with cool winters, hot summers and moderate monsoons. The climate does vary with latitude somewhat, with winters getting cooler and rainfall decreasing. It can vary significantly with altitude, especially in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.\n\nThe Hindi Heartland supports about a third of India's population and occupies about a quarter of its geographical area. The population is concentrated along the fertile Ganges plain in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar.\n\nAlthough the vast majority of the population is rural, significant urban cities include Chandigarh, Panchkula, Delhi, Lucknow, Kanpur, Allahabad, Jaipur, Agra, Varanasi, Indore, Bhopal, Patna, Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The region hosts a diverse population, with various dialects of Hindi being spoken along with other Indian languages, and multi-religious population including Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs along with people from various castes and a significant tribal population. The geography is also varied, with the flat, alluvial Gangetic plain occupying the northern portion, the Vindhyas in Madhya Pradesh demarcating the southern boundary and the hills and dense forests of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh separate the region from West Bengal and Odisha.\n\nOver years political development in some of these states are dominated by caste based politics, but this has changed somewhat in recent years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5540403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5540403", "title": "ISO 639:m", "text": "ISO 639:m\n\n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!mis \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n"}
{"id": "10909220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10909220", "title": "Iceland Review", "text": "Iceland Review\n\nIceland Review is the oldest English-language magazine about Iceland, having originally been published in August, 1963. Iceland Review also runs a news website which covers current events in Iceland. Since 2009, the online version is offered in German as well. The Iceland Review magazine publishes reports on Icelandic society, politics, pop culture, music, art, literature, current events, as well as interviews with notable Icelanders, articles on traveling in Iceland, and photo essays on Iceland. The magazine is published on a bi-monthly basis.\n"}
{"id": "50015256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50015256", "title": "Insects in medicine", "text": "Insects in medicine\n\nInsects have long been used in medicine, both traditional and modern, sometimes with little evidence of their effectiveness. For the purpose of the article, and in line with custom, medicinal uses of other arthropods such as spiders are included.\n\nThe medicinal uses of insects and other arthropods worldwide have been reviewed by Meyer-Rochow , who provides examples of all major insect groups,spiders, worms and molluscs and discusses their potential as suppliers of bioactive components. Using insects (and spiders) to treat various maladies and injuries has a long tradition and, having stood the test of time, can be effective and provide results. However, sometimes folk-medicinal \"logic\" was based on the Doctrine of Signatures = \"let likes be cured by likes\"and had, if any at all, little more than a psychological effect. For example, to treat cases of constipation, dung beetles were prescribed; to slim down stick insects were thought to help; hairy tarantulas seemed the right treatment for hair loss and fat grubs resembling the swollen limb caused by the parasite Wucheria bancrofti were expected to help the elephantiasis sufferer. An organism bearing parts that resemble human body parts, animals, or other objects, was thought to have useful relevance to those parts, animals or objects. So, for example, the femurs of grasshoppers, which were said to resemble the human liver, were used to treat liver ailments by the indigenous peoples of Mexico. This doctrine is common throughout traditional and alternative medicine, but is most prominent where medical traditions are broadly accepted, as in traditional Chinese medicine and Ayurveda, and less by community and family based medicine, as is more common in parts of Africa.\n\nTraditional Chinese medicine includes the use of herbal medicine, acupuncture, massage, exercise, and dietary therapy. It is a typical component of modern medical care throughout East Asia and in some parts of Southeast Asia (such as Thailand). Insects are very commonly incorporated as part of the herbal medicine component of traditional Chinese medicine, and their medical properties and applications are broadly accepted and agreed upon. Some brief examples follow:\n\nCentipede is used to treat tetanus, seizures, and convulsions. It is also said to relieve sores and carbuncles on the skin, to alleviate pain, especially that of headaches, and to be a cure for snakebite. Centipede is typically dried, ground into a paste, and applied topically to the afflicted area.\n\nThe Chinese Black Mountain Ant, \"Polyrhachis vicina\", is supposed to act as a cure all and is widely used, especially by the elderly. It is said to prolong life, to have anti-aging properties, to replenish Qi, and to increase virility and fertility. Recent interest in the ants' medicinal qualities by British researchers has led to investigations into the extract's ability to serve as a cancer-fighting agent. Chinese Black Mountain Ant extract is typically consumed mixed with wine.\n\nAyurveda is ancient traditional Indian treatment almost universally incorporated alongside Western medicine as a typical component of medical treatment in India. Although Ayurvedic medicine is often effective, doses can be inconsistent, and may sometimes be contaminated with toxic heavy metals. Some brief examples to follow:\n\nTermite is said to cure a variety of diseases, both specific and vague. Typically the mound or a portion of the mound is dug up and the termites and the architectural components of the mound are together ground into a paste which is then applied topically to the affected areas or, more rarely, mixed with water and consumed. This treatment was said to cure ulcers, rheumatic diseases, and anemia. It was also suggested to be a general pain reliever and health improver.\n\nThe Jatropha Leaf Miner, a lepidopteran which feeds preferentially on \"Jatropha\", is an example of a major insect agricultural pest which is also a medicinal remedy. The larvae, which are also the form of the insect with the greatest economic impact on agriculture, are harvested, boiled, and mashed into a paste which is administered topically and is said to induce lactation, reduce fever, and soothe gastrointestinal tracts.\n\nUnlike China and India, the traditional insect medicine of Africa is extremely variable. It is largely regional, with few, if any, major agreements on which insects are useful as treatments for which ailments. Most insect medicinal treatments are passed on through communities and families, rather than being taught in university settings, as Traditional Chinese Medicine and Ayurveda sometimes are; furthermore, most traditional medicine practices necessitate a person in a \"healer\" role. Some brief examples to follow:\n\nGrasshopper is both commonly eaten as a delicacy and an excellent source of protein \"and\" is consumed for medicinal purposes. These insects are typically collected, dried in the sun, and then ground into a powder. The powder can then be turned into a paste when mixed with water and ash and applied to the forehead to alleviate the pain of violent headaches. Additionally, the headaches themselves can be prevented by a \"healer\" inserting the paste under the skin at the nape of the afflicted person's neck.\n\nTermites are also used in parts of Africa much like they are in India. Parts of the mound are dug up, boiled, and turned into a paste, which can then be applied to external wounds to prevent infection or consumed to treat internal hemorrhages. termites are used not only as a form of medicine, but also as a medical device. If a \"healer\" wants to insert a medicine subcutaneously, they will often spread that medicine on the skin of the patient, and then agitate a termite and place the insect on the skin of the patient. When the termite bites, its mandibles effectively serve as an injection device.\n\nThe Americas were more highly influenced by the Doctrine of Signatures than China, India, or Africa, most likely because of their colonial history with Europe. The majority of insect use in medicine is associated with Central America and parts of South America, rather than North America, and most of it is based on the medical techniques of indigenous peoples. Currently, insect medicine is practiced much more rarely than in China, India, or Africa, though it is still relatively common in rural areas with large indigenous populations. Some examples to follow:\n\nChapulines, or grasshoppers, are commonly consumed as a toasted regional dish in some parts of Mexico, but they are also used medicinally. They are said to serve as diuretic to treat kidney diseases, to reduce swelling, and to relieve the pain of intestinal disorders when they are consumed. However, there are some risks associated with consuming chapulines, as they are known to harbor nematodes which may be transmitted to humans upon consumption.\n\nMuch like the termites of Africa, ants were sometimes used as medicinal devices by the indigenous peoples of Central America. The soldier cast of the Army ant would be collected and used as living sutures by Mayans. This involved agitating an ant and holding its mandibles up to the wound edges; when it bit down, the thorax and abdomen were removed, leaving the head holding the wound together. The ant's salivary gland secretions were reputed to have antibiotic properties. The venom of the Red harvester ant was used to treat rheumatism, arthritis, and polimyelitis via the immunological reaction produced by its sting. This technique, in which ants are allowed to sting afflicted areas in a controlled manner, is still used in some arid rural areas of Mexico.\n\nThe silkworm, \"Bombyx mori\", was also commonly consumed both as a regional food and for medicinal purposes in Central America after it was brought to the New World by the Spanish and Portuguese. Only the immatures are consumed. Boiled pupae were eaten to treat apoplexy, aphasy, bronchitis, pneumonia, convulsions, hemorrhages, and frequent urination. The excrement produced by the larvae is also eaten to improve circulation and alleviate the symptoms of cholera (intense vomiting and diarrhea).\n\nHoney bee products are used medicinally across Asia, Europe, Africa, Australia, and the Americas, despite the fact that the honey bee was not introduced to the Americas until the colonization by Spain and Portugal. They are by far the most common medical insect product, both historically and currently.\n\nHoney is the most frequently referenced medical bee material. It can be applied to skin to treat excessive scar tissue, rashes, and burns, and can be applied as a poultice to eyes to treat infection. It is also consumed for digestive problems and as a general health restorative, and can be heated and consumed to treat head colds, cough, throat infections, laryngitis, tuberculosis, and lung diseases.\n\nAdditionally, apitoxin, or honey bee venom, can be applied via direct stings to relieve arthritis, rheumatism, polyneuritis, and asthma. Propolis, a resinous, waxy mixture collected by honeybees and used as a hive insulator and sealant, is often consumed by menopausal women because of its high hormone content, and it is said to have antibiotic, anesthetic, and anti-inflammatory properties. Royal jelly is used to treat anemia, gastrointestinal ulcers, arteriosclerosis, hypo- and hypertension, and inhibition of sexual libido. Finally Bee bread, or bee pollen, is eaten as a generally health restorative, and is said to help treat both internal and external infections. All of these honey bee products are regularly produced and sold, especially online and in health food stores, though none are yet approved by the FDA.\n\nThough insects were widely used throughout history for medical treatment on nearly every continent, relatively little medical entomological research has been conducted since the revolutionary advent of antibiotics. Heavy reliance on antibiotics, coupled with discomfort with insects in Western culture limited the field of insect pharmacology until the rise of antibiotic resistant infections sparked pharmaceutical research to explore new resources. Arthropods represent a rich and largely unexplored source of new medicinal compounds.\n\nMaggot therapy is the intentional introduction of live, disinfected blow fly larvae (maggots) into soft tissue wounds to selectively clean out the necrotic tissue. This helps to prevent infection; it also speeds healing of chronically infected wounds and ulcers. Military surgeons since classical antiquity noticed that wounds which had been left untreated for several days, and which had become infested with maggots, healed better than wounds not so infested. Maggots secrete several chemicals that kill microbes, including allantoin, urea, phenylacetic acid, phenylacetaldehyde, calcium carbonate, proteolytic enzymes, and many others.\n\nMaggots were used for wound healing by the Maya and by indigenous Australians. More recently, they were used in Renaissance Europe, in the Napoleonic Wars, the American Civil War, and in the First and Second World Wars. It continues to be used in military medicine.\n\nApitherapy is the medical use of honeybee products such as honey, pollen, bee bread, propolis, royal jelly and bee venom. One of the major peptides in bee venom, called Melittin, has the potential to treat inflammation in sufferers of Rheumatoid arthritis and Multiple sclerosis. Melittin blocks the expression of inflammatory genes, thus reducing swelling and pain. It is administered by direct insect sting, or intramuscular injections. Bee products demonstrate a wide array of antimicrobial factors and in laboratory studies and have been shown to kill antibiotic resistant bacteria, pancreatic cancer cells, and many other infectious microbes.\n\nSpanish fly is an emerald-green beetle, \"Lytta vesicatoria\", in the blister beetle family (Meloidae). It and other such species were used in preparations offered by traditional apothecaries. The insect is the source of the terpenoid cantharidin, a toxic blistering agent once used as an aphrodisiac.\n\nMany blood-feeding insects like ticks, horseflies, and mosquitoes inject multiple bioactive compounds into their prey. These insects have been used by practitioners of Eastern Medicine for hundreds of years to prevent blood clot formation or thrombosis. However, modern medical research has only recently begun to investigate the drug development potential of blood-feeding insect saliva. These compounds in the saliva of blood feeding insects are capable of increasing the ease of blood feeding by preventing coagulation of platelets around the wound and provide protection against the host’s immune response. Currently, over 1280 different protein families have been associated with the saliva of blood feeding organisms. This diverse range of compounds may include:\n\n\nCurrently, some preliminary progress has been made with investigation of the therapeutic properties of tick anticoagulant peptide (TAP) and Ixolaris a novel recombinant tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) from the salivary gland of the tick, \"Ixodes scapularis\". Additionally, Ixolaris, a tissue factor inhibitor has been shown to block primary tumor growth and angiogenesis in a glioblastoma model. Despite the strong potential of these compounds for use as anticoagulants or immunomodulating drugs no modern medicines, developed from the saliva of blood-sucking insects, are currently on the market.\n\nLike plants and insects, arachnids have also been used for thousands of years in traditional medical practices. Recent scientific research in natural bioactive factors has increased, leading to a renewed interest in venom components in many animals. In 1993 Margatoxin was synthesized from the venom of the \"Centruroides margaritatus\" the Central American bark scorpion. It is a peptide that selectively inhibits voltage-dependent potassium channels. Patented by Merck, it has the potential to prevent neointimal hyperplasia, a common cause of bypass graft failure.\n\nIn addition to medical uses of arachnid defense compounds, a great amount of research has recently been directed toward the synthesis and use of spider silk as a scaffolding for ligament generation. Spider silk is an ideal material for the synthesis of medical skin grafts or ligament implants because it is one of the strongest known natural fibers and triggers little immune response in animals. Spider silk may also be used to make fine sutures for stitching nerves or eyes to heal with little scarring. Medical uses of spider silk is not a new idea. Spider silks have been used for thousands of years to fight infection and heal wounds. Efforts to produce industrial quantities and qualities of spider silk in transgenic goat milk are underway.\n\nRecent news reports claim that use of scorpions for psychoactive purposes is gaining in popularity in Asia. Heroin addicts in Afghanistan are purported to smoke dried scorpions or use scorpion stings to get high when heroin is not available. The 'scorpion sting craze' has also increased in India with a decreasing availability of other drugs and alcohol available to youth. Young people are reportedly flocking to highway sides where they can purchase scorpion stings that after several minutes of intense pain, supposedly produce a six- to eight-hour feeling of wellbeing.\n"}
{"id": "48648074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48648074", "title": "Institute for Social Anthropology", "text": "Institute for Social Anthropology\n\nThe Institute for Social Anthropology (ISA) is a research institute of the Austrian Academy of Sciences (AAS) in Vienna, Austria.\n\nThe Institute for Social Anthropology is an Asia-specialized research institute at the AAS. Its long-term research focus lies on \"Consensus and Conflict in Asia and the Eastern Mediterranean\". Special emphasis is placed on transnational developments in Asia, such as regional integration and cooperation, transformations of family and kinship relations, as well as regional and internal migration.\n\nISA’s medium-term research program (2012-2017) is entitled \"Engaging with Crisis, Mobility and Transformations in Asia and the Eastern Mediterranean\". It focuses on systemic and biographic crises in Asia’s past and present, on the relationships between crises and mobility, and on the role of major social, economic and political transformations in connection with this. In short, ISA’s research problematizes the ways in which Asian societies engage with crises, mobility and transformations.\n\nProf. Ulf Hannerz is the current chair and Prof. Regina Bendix the current deputy chair of ISA’s Scientific Advisory Board for the term 2014-2016.\n\nThe roots of the current Institute for Social Anthropology can be traced back to March 2, 1938, when the erstwhile Commissions for \"Research on Illiterate Languages of Non-European Peoples\" and for \"Publishing Songs and Texts Recorded in Prisoner of War Camps\" at the Austrian Academy of Sciences were merged into the new \"Commission for Research on Primitive Cultures and Languages.\" As the Commission’s research focus increasingly turned to complex societies, in line with developments within anthropology at the time, it was renamed \"Ethnological Commission\" on November 22, 1961. In the years between 1955 and 1965, Prof. Robert Heine-Geldern established a focus on the region of Southeast Asia for the first time in the history of AAS.\n\nFrom 1980 to 2000 Prof. Walter Dostal substantially expanded the already existing focus on Southeast Asia by two additional core fields – South-Western Arabia and Tibet.\nA second institutional merger took place under Prof. Walter Dostal on January 1, 1993, when the \"Arabic Commission\" was integrated into the Ethnological Commission, resulting both in an interdisciplinary approach that provided a strong foundation for research on intercultural relations, and in a special emphasis on language competency in its anthropological work.\n\nAs it became clear that the term \"ethnos\" did not adequately capture anthropology’s research focus on the human anymore, the Commission for Ethnology was renamed, on January 18, 1995, to \"Commission for Social Anthropology.\" Since 1995, this socio-anthropological research approach follows an interdisciplinary program by conducting empirical and ethnographic investigations in connection with philological and historical analyses and intercultural comparative studies of socio-cultural phenomena. The award of the Wittgenstein prize to Prof. Andre Gingrich in the year 2000 marked the start of a new era at the Commission.\n\nOn January 1, 2007, the \"Commission for Social Anthropology\" was transformed into a Research Unit as part of the \"Center for Studies in Asian Cultures and Social Anthropology,\" and awarded temporary institutional status as the \"Institute for Social Anthropology\" on January 1, 2010. Following a successful external evaluation, it was granted permanent status on September 15, 2011.\n\nToday, the Institute for Social Anthropology constitutes one of the Austrian Academy of Sciences’ flagship institutes in the humanities and social sciences, and counts among the top European research institutions in anthropology.\n\nISA’s regional foci and expertise encompass: 1) the Islamic Middle East and North Africa, 2) primarily Buddhist Central Asia and the Tibetan language-speaking Himalayan regions, as well as 3) Southeast Asia and the islands of the Indian Ocean.\n\nResearchers on the Middle East examine, inter alia, social transformations and conflicts of South-Western Arabia past and present and the memory of crimes against humanity among Kurdish people. In Central Asia, Tibet and the Himalayan region, staff carry out research on imperial-time and early Buddhist Tibet, Tibetan medicine, and nomadic artefacts. \nOngoing projects in the region of Southeast Asia and the islands of the Indian Ocean include research on health-related mobility and tourism in the Republic of Maldives, on cognitive concepts among the Maniq-Semang in Southern Thailand, and on social media and Islamic practices in Indonesia.\n\nMethodologically, ISA pursues gender-sensitive ethnographic fieldwork carried out in local languages and systematic cross-cultural comparison in its analyses and interpretations of socio-cultural processes in the past and present.\n\nSince 2002, ISA co-organizes the international Eric Wolf Lectures in collaboration with the Department of Social and Cultural Anthropology of the University of Vienna and the International Research Center for Cultural Studies (IFK). Every year, a prominent representative of the discipline is invited to hold a public lecture. Since 2004, the Eric Wolf Lectures are published in Current Anthropology.\n\nAbout eight times a year, the institute organizes its ISA International Guest Lectures, for which ISA invites researchers from all relevant fields and well-established lecturers. These lectures – mainly in English – are published in the institute’s working papers in Social Anthropology.\n\nEvery two years, ISA organizes an \"International Anthropological Atelier\" – a special workshop together with another European anthropological institute in order to share, discuss, and develop preliminary results of ongoing research. The outcomes of the workshop are published as an edited volume or a special focus section in a leading journal of the field.\n\nISA’s Research Forum is meant primarily as an internal forum for staff members of ISA or partner institutions to present new projects as well as the results of ongoing or already completed research.\n\nOccasionally, ISA organizes or co-organizes domestic as well as international conferences and seminars on theoretical-methodological debates, special topics, or regional agendas. In 2004, ISA co-organized the 8th EASA Biennial Conference, in 2011 the GAA Conference 2011, and in 2015 the 8th EuroSEAS Conference as well as the 11th CHaGS Conference in Vienna.\n\nSince 1996, ISA publishes the book series \"Veröffentlichungen zur Sozialanthropologie\" (\"Publications in Social Anthropology\"). This series is available from the Austrian Academy of Sciences Press.\n\nSince 2008, AAS Working Papers in Social Anthropology appear several times a year. This series is available online and \"open access\" on the institute’s homepage.\n\nAnother publication is the book series \"Sammlung Eduard Glaser\", which is also available from the Austrian Academy of Sciences Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "4561436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4561436", "title": "Internal mail", "text": "Internal mail\n\nIn a large organisation with many employees, there is frequently an internal mail system. The post room sorts the incoming mail and the 'mailboy' takes it around on a trolly to the various pigeon-holes and direct to the desks of important people.\n\nThis is the name of the department or the room where mail is sorted internally within a large organisation. Mailroom is used primarily by US companies and Post room by UK companies and organisations (e.g. hospitals and universities.)\n\nThis is where goods as opposed to letters are delivered to and distributed from. Small packets and letters in bulk (e.g. mailsacks) would be sent on to the mailroom. Goods are often heavy and bulky and may require specialist handling (e.g. fragile), lifting equipment (forklifts for pallets) and transportation devices (sacktrucks, motorised trollies, vans and flatbeds) and are therefore rarely handled by the mailroom.\n\nThis is the name for mail which is sent and received between employees and departments. Internal mail will often use a special envelope which can be reused. It is common for them to have many address boxes that are used in order. The most recent box is the current delivery address.\n\n\nThis is the name used to describe mail which comes from or is going to another organisation.\n\n\n\nThis is the departmental system of mail delivery for employees that don't have a desk.\n\nThis is where mail is delivered to or received from when an employee has a desk. Each desk has a minimum of three letter trays labelled, in, out and pending. The in tray is where mail is received. The out tray is mail that is waiting to be collected. The pending tray is for documents that cannot be worked on at present because input from another person is required, or the requests are low priority. Sometimes additional trays are used for post, filing, dictation, etc. according to the needs of the individual or organisation.\n\nThis person usually works independently and is responsible for a company's incoming and outgoing mail. They are in charge of the mailroom and all of the employees that work there.\n\nA person who works in a mailroom is known as a mailroom clerk, mailroom operator or post room operator. A mailroom clerk deals with the preparation of packaged goods, letters, and other mail for shipping by the local post office or by an independent shipping service. A mailroom clerk's job may be with a private firm, government agency, non-profit group, or a military operation. In some small companies, the pigeonholes are in the reception area so the receptionist may take on this role.\n\nMailboy is the traditional name for the mailroom clerk who collects and delivers mail within a large organisation. A 'mailboy', delivers mail for other employees in different departments using a mail cart or a trolley often sorting as he goes using the pouches or wallets that are part of the trolley. It is typically the most junior of roles and many employees start here so they can get a feel for the entire organisation, get to know everyone rapidly, and then to decide where in an organisation they would like to train for and work within. In the modern workplace it is a role suitable for people with learning difficulties and helps an organisation meet legislative quotas. A trolly with many slots is frequently used so that sorting can take place while the trolly does its rounds thereby reducing the amount of mail that has to be sorted in the mailroom.\n\nBring Me the Head of Willy the Mailboy! is the title of a Dilbert book and contains a great deal of humour about modern office life through the eyes of a computer engineer.\n\nSome companies use an automated system to assist with mail. Tracks which loop around the building carry the mail between the mailroom and the departmental mailrooms or reception areas The mail and small packets are placed on \"trucks\" or \"trollies\" which are programmed with the destination \n\n"}
{"id": "886306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=886306", "title": "International Times", "text": "International Times\n\nInternational Times (it or IT) is the name of various underground newspapers, with the original title founded in London in 1966. Editors included Hoppy, David Mairowitz, Roger Hutchinson, Peter Stansill, Barry Miles, Jim Haynes and playwright Tom McGrath. Jack Moore, avant-garde writer William Levy and Mick Farren, singer of The Deviants, also edited at various periods. \n\nThe paper's logo is a black-and-white image of Theda Bara, vampish star of silent films. The founders' intention had been to use an image of actress Clara Bow, 1920s \"It girl\", but a picture of Theda Bara was used by accident and, once deployed, not changed. Paul McCartney donated to the paper as did Allen Ginsberg through his Committee on Poetry foundation.\n\nThe IT restarted as an online archive in 2008. In 2011 it relaunched as on online magazine publishing new material. Irish poet Niall McDevitt was the first online editor of IT, a position also held by the late poet and actor Heathcote Williams (editor-in-chief) until 2017. The current editorial team includes Mike Lesser (1943 - 2015), Heathcote Williams (1943 - 2017), Elena Caldera, Claire Palmer, Nick Victor, David Erdos, Rupert Loydell and others.\n\n\"International Times\" was launched on 15 October 1966 at The Roundhouse at an 'All Night Rave' featuring Soft Machine and Pink Floyd. The event promised a 'Pop/Op/Costume/Masque/Fantasy-Loon/Blowout/Drag Ball' featuring 'steel bands, strips, trips, happenings, movies'. The launch was described by Daevid Allen of Soft Machine as \"one of the two most revolutionary events in the history of English alternative music and thinking. The \"IT\" event was important because it marked the first recognition of a rapidly spreading socio-cultural revolution that had its parallel in the States.\"\n\nFrom April 1967, and for some while later, the police raided the offices of \"International Times\" to try, it was alleged, to force the paper out of business. A benefit event labelled \"The 14 Hour Technicolor Dream\" took place at Alexandra Palace on 29 April 1967. Bands included Pink Floyd, The Pretty Things, The Crazy World of Arthur Brown, Soft Machine, The Move, and Sam Gopal Dream. Despite police harassment, the paper continued to grow, with financial help from Paul McCartney, a personal friend of editor Barry Miles. Published fortnightly, it became the leading British underground paper, its circulation peaking at around 40,000 copies in late 1968/early 1969, before another police raid, along with competition from newer publications such as \"Time Out\" led to declining sales and a financial crisis.\n\nIn response to another raid on the paper's offices, London's alternative press on one occasion succeeded, somewhat astonishingly, in pulling off what was billed as a \"reprisal attack\" on the police—prompting the \"Evening Standard\" headline \"Raid on the Yard\". The paper \"Black Dwarf\" published a detailed floor-by-floor guide to Scotland Yard, complete with diagrams, descriptions of locks on particular doors and snippets of overheard conversation in the offices of Special Branch. The anonymous author, or \"blue dwarf,\" as he styled himself, described how he perused police files, and even claimed to have sampled named brands of whisky in the Commissioner's office. A day or two later \"The Daily Telegraph\" announced that the \"raid\" had forced the police to withdraw and re-issue all security passes.\n\nIn 1970 a group of people from \"IT\", led by photographer Graham Keen, launched \"Cyclops\", \"The First English Adult Comic Paper.\"\n\n\"IT\" first ceased publication in October 1973, after being convicted for running contact ads for gay men. The name was revived by another publisher in May 1974 for three issues until October. In 1975, \"Maya\", another underground publication, temporarily renamed itself \"IT - the International Times\", until that title closed after the November issue. A new title of the same name launched the following month, continuing until March 1976 when it went into hiatus until resuming in January 1977, ceasing in August of that year.\n\nPublications with the \"International Times\" title were published from January to December 1978, and again from April 1979 to June 1980. A single 'festival issue' was produced in June 1982. The title was again revived in 1986, with three issues from January to March, the last time a paper publication of the IT name was printed.\n\nIn 2016, the 50th anniversary of the first copy of the magazine, further editions of a paper version of IT began to be published starting with issue Zero. These are edited by Heathcote Ruthven.\n\nInternational Times has also published two books. Both are poetry collections – \"Royal Babylon\" by Heathcote Williams, an attack on the British Monarchy, and \"Porterloo\" by Niall McDevitt, a book satirising the Conservative Party and registering the counterculture of 2011-12.\n\nMany people who became prominent UK figures wrote for \"IT\", including feminist critic Germaine Greer, poet and social commentator Jeff Nuttall, occultist Kenneth Grant, and DJ John Peel. There were many original contributions from underground writers such as Alexander Trocchi; William Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg.\n\nLeading editorial contributors to the late 1970s \"IT\" were Heathcote Williams, Max Handley, Mike Lesser, Eddie Woods (Amsterdam editor), and Chris Sanders.\n\nIn 1986 \"IT\" was relaunched by Tony Allen and Chris Brook. After three issues (Volume 86; issues 1,2,3) Allen left, and Brook continued with one more issue (Volume 86; issue 4). After various one-off issues into 1991, 2000 saw Brook and others create a web-based presence—initially through the alternative server 'Phreak', c. 1996.\n\nThere are currently two archive sources online: 1) a comprehensive archive scanned by previous contributors and editors, and a less extensive archive with some commentary.\n\nInternational Times (NIIT) Archive is a free online archive of every issue of the \"International Times\". It runs from a precursor to \"IT\", The Longhair Times, released on April Fools' Day 1966 to an erroneously labelled 'last issue'—a Xeroxed single sheet issue in 1994. The continuum of this journal, in fact, includes issues and web presence from the last editorial group (IT#4 Vol 1986) until the present day.\n\nThe \"IT Archive\" was launched on 16 July 2009 at the Idea Generation Gallery.\n\nThe \"IT Archive\" was founded by Mike Lesser supported by fellow contributors and editors of \"IT\" including Mick Farren, John \"Hoppy\" Hopkins, Dave Mairowitz, Peter Stansill and Heathcote Williams amongst others.\n\n\nhttp://dev.autonomedia.org/node/42842\nhttps://www.morningstaronline.co.uk/a-dad2-Niall-McDevitt-on-his-recent-anti-Tory-poetry-collection-Porterloo#.WFVGxxRszR0\n"}
{"id": "2734619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2734619", "title": "Jock (stereotype)", "text": "Jock (stereotype)\n\nIn the United States and Canada, a jock is a stereotype of an athlete, or someone who is primarily interested in sports and sports culture, and does not take much interest in intellectual culture. It is generally attributed mostly to high school and college athletics participants who form a distinct youth subculture. As a blanket term, \"jock\" can be considered synonymous with \"athlete\". Jocks are usually presented as practitioners of team sports, such as football, basketball, baseball and hockey.\n\nSimilar words that may mean the same as \"jock\" (in North America) include \"meathead,\" \"musclebrain,\" and \"musclehead.\" These terms are based on the stereotype that a jock is muscular but not very smart, and cannot carry a conversation on any topic other than one relating to sports and exercise.\n\n\"Jock\" is also a derogatory word used by the English towards Scottish men.\n\nThe use of the term \"jock\" to refer to an athletic man is thought to have emerged around 1963. It is believed to be derived from the word \"jockstrap,\" which is an undergarment worn to support/protect the male genitals while playing sports.\n\nJocks are often contrasted with another stereotype: nerds. This dichotomy is a theme in many American movies, television shows, and books.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the term 'Jock' is a stereotypical (possibly, but not necessarily, derogatory) term for a Scotsman.\n\nVarious characteristics of the jock stereotype include:\n\n\nJocks are often present in books, movies, and television shows involving high school and college. The stereotype is most prevalent in movies for teenagers such as \"College\", \"American Pie\", and the \"Revenge of the Nerds\" movies. The stereotype extends beyond the high-school and collegiate age group, trickling down into media intended for younger audiences. Examples of this include the high school football quarterback Dash Baxter in the Nickelodeon cartoon \"Danny Phantom\" and Kevin from the Cartoon Network series \"Ed, Edd n Eddy\". Other notable portrayals of the stereotype include the popular athlete and love interest \"Tommy Ross\" in \"Carrie\", the spoiled bullying antagonist Luke Ward in the first season of \"The O.C.\", and Kim's wealthy and athletic boyfriend Jim in \"Edward Scissorhands\".\n\nThe mass media borrows many stereotypical characteristics of athletes, and they are commonly used to portray a character who is relatively unintelligent and unenlightened, but nonetheless socially and physically well-endowed. Usually, jocks will play aggressive sports such as football and basketball. Examples from television shows include Ryan Shay in the sitcom \"Suburgatory\" and Jimmy Armstrong (Dan Cortese) in the sitcom \"Hot in Cleveland\". The main jock character often occupies a high position, such as the quarterback or captain of the football team. In many cases, the jock is shown to come from a wealthy family: driving a fancy, expensive sports car or SUV, and wearing expensive, name-brand clothing; however, this is not always the case. In this regard, there may be significant overlap with the preppie stereotype.\n\nAs a protagonist, the jock is often a dynamic character who through an epiphany or new understanding will lead to a change in the values of the jock. This change often means a cessation of athletics and/or some other equivalent social sacrifice, which leads to the character no longer being considered a jock. Examples from movies include Randall \"Pink\" Floyd in \"Dazed and Confused\" and Andrew Clark in \"The Breakfast Club\". Examples from television shows include Nathan Scott in the teen drama series \"One Tree Hill\", Whitney Fordman in \"Smallville\" and Luke Ward in \"The O.C.\".\n\nAs antagonists, jocks can be stock characters shown as lacking compassion for the protagonist and are generally flat and static. Often in high school comedies and/or dramas where the main characters are not popular, the jock is the chief antagonist and cruel to the main characters. He is disliked by the nerds and other people who are considered unpopular, and usually has an unfortunate (and in some cases, violent and/or fatal) ending. \"Heathers\"' \"Kurt\" and \"Ram\" roles, the \"Spider-Man\" character Flash Thompson, high school football jocks and Connie D'Amico's cronies Scott and Doug in \"Family Guy\", high school football captain Oliver Wilkerson in \"The Cleveland Show\", Jean Grey's first boyfriend in \"\", middle school bully and \"Crush Ball\" player Rodney Glaxer from \"Lloyd in Space\", and Massimo Lenzetti (Justin Chambers) in the film \"The Wedding Planner\" are such examples. There are also numerous jock antagonists found in teen dramas such as the rapist Dean Walton from \"\".\n\nOn the show \"Pretty Little Liars\", Emily Fields is the athletic one of the group. In the 1978 movie \"Grease\" Danny Zuko changed his greaser look for jock to impress Sandy. In the 2006 hit movie \"High School Musical\", Troy Bolton was a star jock of East High School in addition to other characters Chad Danforth, Zeke Baylor, and also Troy's father Jack Bolton. In 2013's \"Monsters University\", Johnny Worthington is the proud leader of Roar Omega Roar (RΩR). Additionally, Kevin Thompson of \"Daria\", which satirized high school life, conformed to the \"dumb\" athlete stereotype, though was never mean towards lead character Daria Morgendorffer and her friend Jane Lane; another jock character, Mac Mackenzie, was depicted as intelligent and cordial to the main characters, and was never shown to be a bully even though he was often disturbed by Kevin's dimness.\n\n\nThe general perception that athletes are unintelligent is derived from the idea that athletic and academic success are mutually exclusive. Prior to 1990, many researchers were critical with respect to the impact of extracurricular activities and athletics in particular on education. According to the so-called \"Zero Sum Model,\" education and extracurriculars compete for student's time. However, later studies present a strong evidence that athletic or cultural extracurricular activities in school would increase school attendance, self-confidence, grade (in some instance), and college attendance but would reduce performance in standardized test.\n\nDespite the fact that many schools recruit for sports, they put stipulations in place that require student athletes to maintain minimum academic grade in order to maintain their scholarships. Schools recruit students to their athletic teams, but require a student maintain a certain grade-point average (GPA) in order to have the scholarship renewed. For many young athletes, this is imperative as they could not afford higher education on their own. Therefore, they balance enough study to remain eligible with the demands of their sport.\n\nAt the college level in the United States, the NCAA does have some education requirements that must be met for high school students to play in a Division I school, and to be eligible for a scholarship. The most recent standards passed by the NCAA, which will apply to all incoming college freshmen beginning with the class of 2016, requires that 16 core high school courses be completed by the student-athlete, 7 of which must be either math, science, or English, and 10 of those 16 classes must be completed prior to their senior year of high school. As well, the students must graduate high school with a minimum 2.3 GPA (up from the 2.0 GPA requirement that was in place prior to these new standards). Such requirements have been debated for years, however.\n\n"}
{"id": "55859953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55859953", "title": "Kachin Cuisine", "text": "Kachin Cuisine\n\nKachin Cuisine is food originating from the Kachinland area, which includes the northern areas of Myanmar, as well as parts of China and Arunachal Pradesh, associated with Kachin. Outside of Kachinland, Kachin restaurants have opened in Yangon and Kachin migrants have brought the cuisine to other countries \n\n"}
{"id": "36855861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36855861", "title": "List of Country Music Association Awards ceremonies", "text": "List of Country Music Association Awards ceremonies\n\nThis is a list of Country Music Association Awards ceremonies and the winners in each ceremony.\n\nBelow is a list of ceremonies, the years the ceremonies were held, their hosts, the television networks that aired them, and their locations.\nBelow is a list of winners in the major categories by year.\n\n1967 \n1968 \n1969 \n1970 \n1971 \n1972 \n1973 \n1974 \n1975 \n1976 \n1977 \n1978 \n1979 \n\n1980\n1981 \n1982 \n1983\n1984 \n1985 \n1986 \n1987 \n1988 \n1989 \n\n1990 \n1991 \n1992 \n1993 \n1994 \n1995 \n1996 \n1997 \n1998 \n1999 \n2000 \n2001 \n2002 \n2003 \n2004 \n2005 \n2006\n2007\n2008\n2009\n2010\n2011\n2012\n2013\n2014\n2015\n2016\n<br> Main Article: 50th Annual Country Music Association Awards\n\n2017\n<br> Main Article: 51st Annual Country Music Association Awards\n\n2018\n<br> Main Article: 52nd Annual Country Music Association Awards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094988", "title": "Little Tough Guys", "text": "Little Tough Guys\n\nThe Little Tough Guys (later billed as 'The Dead End Kids and Little Tough Guys') were a group of actors who made a series of films and serials released by Universal Studios from 1938 through 1943. Many of them were originally part of The Dead End Kids, and several of them later became members of The East Side Kids and The Bowery Boys.\n\nThe urban drama \"Dead End\" became both a successful play and a hit movie, featuring six young actors playing streetwise guttersnipes: Billy Halop, Leo Gorcey, Huntz Hall, Gabriel Dell, Bobby Jordan, and Bernard Punsly. The troupe became known as The Dead End Kids and starred in a series of features for Warner Brothers.\n\nIn 1938, Universal borrowed the Dead End Kids (except Gorcey and Jordan) for a juvenile-delinquency drama called \"Little Tough Guy\". Universal adopted this as a brand name, and turned the film into a series of 'Little Tough Guys' features. The studio filled out the cast with David Gorcey (Leo's younger brother) and Hally Chester. \n\nThe next three films did not include any of the original Dead End Kids. \"Little Tough Guys in Society\" (1939) was more of a lightweight comedy, while the next two, \"Newsboys' Home\" and \"Code of the Streets\" (1939), were more dramatic. Jackie Cooper starred in \"Newsboys' Home\", but was not a member of the team. Only David Gorcey and Hally Chester remained from the first film, \"Little Tough Guy\". This was the beginning of the members of the team changing on almost a film-to-film basis. Eleven actors drifted in and out of the series, including Frankie Thomas, Charles Duncan (who was originally hired to play Leo Gorcey's role in the play \"Dead End\"), and Billy Benedict. \n\nWhen Warners released Bobby Jordan from his contract, Universal quickly signed him to join the rest of gang. Now, with five of the original six Dead End Kids on the payroll, Universal revised the billing to read \"The Dead End Kids and Little Tough Guys\". In total, the Little Tough Guys made 12 feature films, and three 12-chapter serials. Leading player Halop joined the armed forces and was replaced by Jordan for the final film in the series, \"Keep 'Em Slugging\", released in 1943.\n\nShemp Howard of the Three Stooges appeared in \"Give Us Wings\", \"Hit The Road\" and \"Keep 'Em Slugging\". Huntz Hall cited Howard as a major influence when his later \"Bowery Boys\" series shifted to all-out slapstick comedy.\n\nThere was still a market for these tough-teen films, and most of the Little Tough Guys principals wound up at Monogram Pictures as The East Side Kids and The Bowery Boys.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28497848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28497848", "title": "Mashup (book)", "text": "Mashup (book)\n\nA mash-up novel (also called \"mashup\" or \"mashed-up novel\"), is a work of fiction which combines a pre-existing literature text, often a classic work of fiction, with another genre, usually horror genre, into a single narrative. Marjorie Kehe of the \"Christian Science Monitor\" renders this admixture of classic text as \"somewhere between 60 and 85 percent original text, with new plot twists added by contemporary co-authors\". These \"twists\" often include horror fiction elements like vampires, werewolves or zombies.\n\nThe term mashup or mash-up originated within the music industry. Also called \"mash-up\", songs within the genre are described as a song or composition created by blending two or more pre-recorded songs, usually by overlaying the vocal track of one song seamlessly over the instrumental track of another. To the extent that such works are \"transformative\" of original content, they may find protection from copyright claims under the \"fair use\" doctrine of copyright law. Adam Cohen of the \"New York Times\" notes that even before that, \"the idea of combining two data sources into a new product began in the tech world\" before spreading to other media, including book publishing.\n\nThe term appears to have first been coined in a review of Seth Grahame-Smith's 2009 novel, \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\". Initially calling it a 'parody' and 'literary hybrid', Caroline Kellogg, lead blogger for \"Jacket Copy\", \"The LA Times\"' book blog, later describes the work as \"novel-as-mashup\". As the popularity of the novel grew and a bidding war commenced over the film rights to the book, the term spread. Subsequent mash-up novels include \"Sense and Sensibility and Seamonsters\", \"Little Women and Werewolves\" and \"Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter\" (also by Grahame-Smith), the last of which was adapted into a film .\n\nPrior to publication, the artwork cover for \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" depicting a \"zombified\" Regency portrait of Marcia Fox by Sir William Beechey altered by Quirk Books artist Doogie Horner to show her lower face eroded, exposing bone and viscera caught the attention of bloggers, as did the opening line of the novel: \"It is a truth universally acknowledged that a zombie in possession of brains must be in want of more brains.\" This is a parody of Austen's original line, \"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.\"\n\nWhile most works in mash-up genre rely on fictional texts as their basis, other works like \"Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter\" superimpose the same sort of contrasting genre upon historical figures and events. A more recent phenomenon within the genre is the combination of more than two original works, or genres, as in the case of \"Robinson Crusoe (The Eerie Adventures of the Lycanthrope)\", which combines the original novel with elements borrowed from the works of H.P. Lovecraft as well as the popular genre of werewolf fiction, and is accordingly attributed to three authors – Daniel Defoe, H.P. Lovecraft, and Peter Clines.\n\nAs previously noted, the novel \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" combines Jane Austen's classic 1813 novel \"Pride and Prejudice\" with elements of modern zombie fiction, crediting Austen as co-author. It was first published in April 2009 by Quirk Books and in October 2009 a Deluxe Edition was released, containing full-color images and additional zombie scenes.\n\nAn earlier novel, \"Move Under Ground\" by Nick Mamatas was a 2004 novel combining the Beat style of Jack Kerouac with the cosmic horror of H. P. Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos.\n\nMashup novels constitute derivative works since they include major elements borrowed from an original, previously created work. Most authors of such novels, however, avoid potential legal issues (and the payment of royalties to the original writers) by basing their books on texts that are in the public domain. One notable exception is \"The Late Gatsby\", which combines F. Scott Fitzgerald's \"The Great Gatsby\" with a vampire narrative – since the original text is still protected by the Copyright Term Extension Act (until 2020) in the United States, the book was published outside the U.S. and remains unavailable to its residents.\n\nWhile initially well-received (\"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" spent eight months on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list and \"Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter\" has already been made into a feature film), at least one reviewer has suggested that the genre has run its course in popularity. Jennifer Schuessler, of \"The New York Times\" reflects the pessimism of critics of the genre:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22048346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22048346", "title": "Museo internazionale e biblioteca della musica", "text": "Museo internazionale e biblioteca della musica\n\nThe Museo internazionale e biblioteca della musica is a music museum and music library in the Palazzo Aldini Sanguinetti, in the historic center of Bologna, Italy.\n\nThe Civico Museo Bibliografico Musicale was founded in 1959 to hold the city's collection of musical objects. It was renamed Museo Internazionale e Biblioteca della Musica in 2004 when the museum's current site, the Palazzo Sanguinetti, opened to the public. The palace was reopened after a long and careful restoration that brought the rich, interior frescoes back to their original splendour. These frescoes were first completed between the late 18th and early 19th centuries, and provide one of the finest examples of Napoleonic and Neoclassical decoration.\n\nThe purpose of the museum was to make the public aware of the rich musical heritage owned by the Comune di Bologna. Until recently, much of this heritage remained confined in warehouses – primarily due to lack of adequate space – and was only brought out occasionally for temporary display.\n\nPalazzo Sanguinetti offered the possibility to enhance the cultural value of such precious musical heritage and to provide an environment worthy of the priceless items displayed. The palace also guarantees ideal conditions for managing and conserving these items.\n\nThe institute is now divided into two sites. An ample selection of volumes, paintings, and musical instruments are displayed in the museum halls in Strada Maggiore 34 (Palazzo Sanguinetti), while the majority of bibliographic material is accessible in Piazza Rossini 2 (the ex-Convent of San Giacomo) in rooms attached to the G.B. Martini Conservatory of Music.\n\nIn the early 16th century, the original core of the Palazzo Sanguinetti belonged to the Loiani family. The building was sold in 1569 to the Bolognese brothers, Ercole and Giulio Riario, who were originally from Savona and were related to the della Roveres. Having acquired neighboring land and buildings, Senator Ercole Riario had the home reconstructed and enlarged. The individual homes were united into one structure, and construction on the impressive staircase, which still characterizes the building today, was likely begun. The second major reconstruction was commissioned by Count Antonio Aldini, to whom the Marquis Raffaello Riario Sforza had granted a long-term lease in 1796. Count Aldini tasked the architect Giovanni Battista Martinetti (1774–1830) with modernizing the building. A neighboring house was attached to the tower belonging to the Oseletti family, and the huge 16th-century hall was divide into two rooms, which correspond to the modern museum's two most spacious rooms – the vestibule, or the Room of Virtues, and the Ballroom.\n\nFollowing the fall of Napoleon and the economic ruin of Aldini, the palace was sold to the Cuban nobleman don Diego Pegnalverd, a former member of the Napoleonic government. Upon his death in 1832, the palazzo passed to the famous tenor, Domenico Donzelli. It is noted that Gioachino Rossini stayed there while his own nearby home was under reconstruction. In 1870 the Sanguinetti family purchased the building. They were responsible for the most recent decorations in the intended library and the “Egyptian Room.” During recent renovations of the palazzo, marvelous frescoes were discovered in these two areas.\n\nIn 1986 the last heiress, Eleonora Sanguinetti, donated the larger part of the building to the Comune di Bologna in memory – as she wrote in her will – of “my unforgettable father, Dr. Guido Sanguinetti. I wanted to donate the building in Strada Maggiore 34 in his name and memory, and for the love that he always had for his city and his home, so that it could become a music museum and library.”\n\nThe Palazzo Sanguinetti decorations displays works by major 18th- and 19th-century Neoclassical painters, such as Pelagio Palagi (1777–1860), Serafino Barozzi, and Antonio Basoli (1774–1848), under the direction of Vincenzo Martinelli (1737–1807). On the ground floor, the landscape fresco (a magnificent trompe-l'oeil perspective) is attributed to Luigi Busatti, while the quadratura is the work of Francesco Santini (1763–1840). Santini, with the probable collaboration of Serafino Barozzi (1735–1810), also decorated the walls of the grand staircase. On the first floor, the Woodland Room (Room 1), used as and called the Banquet Room, was designed by Martinelli: he illustrates landscapes rich with greenery and classical architecture in the distance. These classical elements surround the onlooker in the illusion of a step that supports hermes and statues of Bacchus and Ceres, works by a young Palagi. The Aeneas Room (Room 2), also by Palagi, depicts stories of the Aeneid on a black, \"Etruscan\" background. The Zodiac and Aurora Room (Room 3) depicts the Zodiac signs by Domenico Corsini (1774–1814) and a figure of Aurora, attributed to Palagi. The last small room of the east wing (Room 4) is decorated by artists from the Barozzi workshop. They are also credited with the two rooms (Rooms 6 and 7) that conclude the west wing, which are decorated in \"oriental\" style with curtains and pavilions, exotic plants, and feminine figures with small umbrellas. Room 5 is the Ballroom. At the end of the museum tour are two salons in the apartment designed by Aldini; they were the first two rooms to be decorated. The original room (Room 8), is decorated by Antonio Basoli in a \"neo-gothic\" style, with figures, statues, and bass reliefs by Pietro Fancelli (1764–1850).\n\nThe original core of the museum's musical collections is credited to the Conventual Franciscan friar, Giovanni Battista Martini (Bologna, April 24, 1706 – August 3, 1784), important 18th-century music scholar and collector, a theorist and composer, and a teacher of counterpoint. Johann Christian Bach and Wolfgang Amadé Mozart were among his students.\n\nAt only 19 years old, Martini was appointed chapel-master of the Church of San Francesco in Bologna. His fame as an excellent teacher and connoisseur of music began to grow when he “won” a dispute with the scholar, Redi, regarding the interpretation of a mysterious \"canone dell'Animuccia\" that existed in the choir gallery of the Santa Casa di Loreto, where Redi himself was chapel-master. After this triumph, not content with being only a scholar, he continued his music studies and was an admired composer of sonatas for the harpsichord, canons, and about 500 unpublished musical pieces.\n\nThe numerous letters conserved in the library (around 80 volumes with more than 6,500 letters), document the broad network of musicians, aristocrats, singers, and cardinals who had contacts with Martini. Even the Emperor of Austria visited Padre Martini while in Bologna. Martini collected not only manuscripts and musical works of various kinds, but also portraits of musicians displayed on the walls of his library in the Monastery of San Francesco.\n\nThe museum path opens among the lush decorations of the Boschereccia Room with some symbolic works which serve as an introduction to the museum and prepare the visitor for their trip through the musical universe.\n\nRooms 2 and 3 are dedicated to the spiritual father of the new museum, pictured in an oval by Angelo Crescimbeni: Giambattista Martini, whose priceless moral heritage, both intellectual and material, is celebrated here and made known to the greater public.\n\nIn Room 3, the relationships between Padre Martini and the stand-out personalities of the music world of the time, such as the young Mozart or Johann Christian Bach, who is represented in the famous portrait by Gainsborough, are displayed. In the same room, one can also admire the famous Sportelli di libreria musicale by Giuseppe Maria Crespi.\nRoom 4 (“The Idea of Music”) follows, which is dedicated to the musical scholars from the 15th century to the 17th century, with important examples of musical treatises, and portraits of their respective authors. This room also contains some musical instruments of great importance, like the unique omnitonum harpsichord by Vito Trasuntino (Venice 1606).\n\nSome of the more relevant pieces are on display in the following Room 5 (Arts Room), which is dedicated to the “Books for music and instruments of the 16th and 17th centuries.” In this room, rare texts from ranging the 15th century to the famous Harmonice Musices Odhecaton A, the first printed musical book by Ottaviano Petrucci, can be admired. They are kept inside very modern, circular cases in the center of the room, which match the rich decoration of the floors.\n\nThen there are the instruments: lutes; the harmony of flutes by Manfredo Settala of 1650, which represents a real unicum;\nthe pochette, various little violins used as instruments by dance instructors, the ghironde, the serpentoni, the extraordinary series of horns and cornets from the 16th and 17th centuries, and finally, a unique performance instrument: the tiorba, which is in the shape of a khitára.\n\nItalian opera is the focus of the following room.\nThe 18th century are first in Room 6, dedicated to the famous singer Carlo Broschi, known as Farinelli.\n\nHis beautiful portrait, painted by Corrado Giaquinto, dominates the room, together with the portraits of the castrati from various periods and of composers from the time, such as Antonio Vivaldi and Domenico Cimarosa.\n\nRoom 7 places the visitor in the 19th century with Gioachino Rossini, whose name is forever tied to Bologna. Portraits, busts, and libretti from the first recitals of Isabella Colbran, a singer and Rossini's first wife, can be found here. Also of interest is the original score of The Barber of Seville and some rather curious personal effects, like a dressing gown and a wig. Finally, one can behold Rossini's grand piano, which was constructed in 1844 by Camille Pleyel.\n\nThe path proceeds through the centuries, the musical uses, and styles in Room 8, which is dedicated to “Books for music and instruments in the 18th and 19th centuries.” There are viole d'amore and flutes along with the original scores composed by Torelli, Vivaldi, Bertoni, etc. There are also clarinets and the beautiful Buccin, created in Lyon by Jean Baptiste Tabard (1812–1845).\n\nConcluding the exhibit, Room 9 pays a proper tribute to two important people in the Italian and Bolognese musical culture, Giuseppe Martucci and Ottorino Respighi. This room displays the composer's portraits, photographs, and a selection of works from the Respighi property, which were donated to the library in 1961 by his widow, Elsa, for the 25th anniversary of his death. In the same room lies the portrait of the musician Arrigo Serato, painted by the famous artist Felice Casorati.\n\nThe first floor of the Palazzo is home to the nine rooms of the exhibition, which illustrates about six centuries of the history of European music. There are over one hundred paintings of famous people from the music world, which are a part of the picture gallery started by Padre Giovanni Battista Martini, more than eighty antique musical instruments, and a large selection of valuable historical documents, such as treatises, volumes, opera libretti, letters, manuscripts, original musical scores, etc.\n\nThe collection inherited from Padre Martini constitutes one of the most prestigious collections of music repertory printed between the 16th and 18th centuries because of its incunabulums, valuable manuscripts, opera libretti, and for the unique collection of autographs and letters, which are the result of the correspondence Martini painstakingly kept with eminent people, scholars, and musicians of the time.\nSaved from the Napoleonic confiscations due to the intervention of Stanislao Mattei, Martini's disciple and successor, the valuable bibliographic patrimony was donated to the Liceo musicale di Bologna in 1816. The Liceo had been founded in 1804 at the ex-convent of the Agostinians in the church of San Giacomo Maggiore. The library grew considerably throughout the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century, thanks to the amount of materials produced from the didactic activity of the Liceo (famous students of the Liceo included Rossini, Donizetti, and Respighi and directors Mancinelli, Martucci, and Busoni).\nThe library also grew because of the valuable items and rare volumes that were acquired by Gaetano Gaspari, who was appointed as librarian in 1855.\nGaspari directed the library for many years with a unique zeal and knowledge. After many years of hard work and constant effort, he was able to excellently organize and card-catalogue all the library material (also from this period came the posthumous publication, the \"Library Catalogue of the Liceo Musicale di Bologna\", which bears his name and is now also available online).\nIn 1942, when the Liceo musicale was transformed into a state institution – Regio Conservatorio di Musica – the Comune di Bologna chose to maintain ownership of Padre Martini's bibliographic patrimony and the attached picture gallery.\nThe Civico Museo Bibliografico Musicale was founded in 1959 in order to conserve and make the most of the bibliographic patrimony and portrait gallery.\n\nThere is not much information about the development of the picture gallery, which seems to have had no rivals in Bologna during the 18th century. From the valuable letters of correspondence that Padre Martini kept with different well-known people of the time (for example, musicians that were his students in Bologna, members of the Accademia Filarmonica, music theorists, composers, nobles, illustrious intellectuals, chapel masters, and custodians of Franciscan convents), it is evident that there was a complex network of informers and intermediaries that were responsible for finding the portraits he desired.\nMany of the portraits were commissioned to the artists directly by Padre Martini. The painters drew the features of the musicians from engravings of the time. In reality, he wasn't interested in the artistic worth of the paintings as much as their plausible resemblance to the model. He was also more interested in whether they were in harmony with his century's interest in the physiognomic reading of faces with the intention of giving iconographic testimony of the people bonded by one common denominator – music. It was also important that the paintings had a direct relationship with his Library.\nIt's worth noting that there are many paintings by famous artists present in the collection, including the portrait of Farinelli by Corrado Giaquinto, the portrait of Johann Christian Bach by Gainsborough, and one of Charles Burney by Joshua Reynolds.\nIt also seems that the prestige of Padre Martini, who was considered the most knowledgeable European expert on the art of music, was so great that it was important for a musician of that time to have their portrait in his gallery. This served as a recognition of the musician's merit.\nThe picture gallery remained in the convent of San Francesco even after Martini's death, surviving the Napoleonic confiscations thanks to Martini's successor, Padre Stanislao Mattei. Only in 1801 was it transferred to the ex-convent of the Agostinians at the Chiesa di San Giacomo Maggiore. Today, the collection consists of 319 paintings, the majority of which are oil on canvas with some pastels and drawings.\n\nThe musical instruments displayed in the rooms of the museum originate from the collections of two important Bolognese institutions: the Museo Civico Medievale and the Civico Museo Bibliografico Musicale. The core of this collection from the Museo Civico Medievale comes from the Liceo musicale, which was founded in 1804. As Federico Parisini (the Liceo librarian from 1881 to 1891) explained, following the Napoleonic suppressions, “the instruments, many famous musical works, chorus books, rare instruments, and other items related to music were sold publicly.”\nThe central administration of the Dipartimento del Reno had asked the government of the Repubblica Cisalpina to purchase and conserve the objects that risked being dispersed. The recovered instruments were then entrusted to the Liceo and, in 1881, were finally added to the Museo Civico Medievale, where they have remained until today.\nAmong the most valuable instruments now displayed in the rooms of the museum is the Trasuntino harpsichord of 1606 (displayed in Room 4). It was constructed for Camillo Gonzaga, the Count of Novellara, and afterwards was passed to Giuseppe Baini (1775–1844), the celebrated author of the first biography of Palestrina. In his will, Baini bequeathed the harpsichord to the Liceo Musicale. Other valuable instruments on display are the Trasuntino monochord, which was built to tune the cymbal, and the 5-reed flute, which is able to mimic several flutes playing in harmony. There is also the polyphonic flute (displayed in Room 5), which bears the mark of Manfredo Settala (1600–1680), a Milanese rector, who was a great collector and famous personality in the cultural panorama of the 17th century.\nThe origin of the collection of musical instruments in the Civico Museo Bibliografico Musicale is more uncertain. The collection includes some particularly important models, such as eight pianos, five of which are grand pianos and three of which are rectangular. These pianos date back to the 17th and 18th centuries. Among these are the priceless Erard from 1811 (that possibly belonged to Paolina Borghese), which was restored for the inauguration of the museum and is now exhibited in Room 8. Also included are Gioachino Rossini's Pleyel piano of 1844 (exhibited in Room 7), and the so-called “spinette of Padre Martini”, a rectangular Glonner from 1780 (displayed in Room 3). Other important instruments on display are the Heckelphon of 1900 (Room 8), various English horns, some cornets, and two oboes.\n\nMuseum\n\nLibrary\n\nThough it is to be transferred to a new site, the library is located in Piazza Rossini 2. It is made up of a single reading room, which is shared with the Conservatorio di Musica “G.B. Martini”. The room has 20 seats, twelve of which are exclusively reserved for the consultation of antique and particular texts. There are two microfilm (and one microfilm/microfiches) machines available in the room, and a space for bibliographic and catalogue searches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3645165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3645165", "title": "Only Human (Doctor Who)", "text": "Only Human (Doctor Who)\n\nOnly Human is a BBC Books original novel written by Gareth Roberts and based on the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". It was published on 8 September 2005, alongside \"The Deviant Strain\" and \"The Stealers of Dreams\". It features the Ninth Doctor, Rose Tyler and Captain Jack.\n\nThe presence of a Neanderthal on present-day Earth alerts the Doctor, Rose and Jack to the fact that someone is meddling with time. In order to learn the truth, they must travel back 28,000 years, where they meet humans of the past and future — and something far, far worse.\n\nAt a fancy dress party in Bromley, a young Roman starts a fight with a caveman.\n\nMeanwhile, on the TARDIS, the Doctor, Rose and Captain Jack Harkness are setting off to Kegron Pluva. Explaining that it is a \"dirty rip engine\" that is causing the disturbance, the Doctor pilots the TARDIS to Bromley in the early 21st century.\n\nThe TARDIS lands, and the Doctor and Jack attempt to trace the disturbance. Rose goes across the street to a manicure shop and finds out that a fight at a nightclub resulted in a caveman being taken to hospital.\n\nUpon arriving at the hospital, the trio soon realize that the army has closed it off. The Doctor and Rose go into the hospital. Inside, a nurse explains that someone was brought in the night before with the Ebola virus.\n\nAfter finding the room with the Neanderthal, the Doctor explains that he is Dr Table and that he is an expert in acromegaly. With the help of the patient's nurse Weronika, they get the Neanderthal out of the hospital and into the TARDIS.\n\nThe Neanderthal gives his name as Das, and the Doctor asks him how he came to be in this time period. From his explanation, they realize the dirty rip engine is from time travelers visiting in 29,185 BC. As the TARDIS leaves, Das starts to dissolve in a green pool of light. The TARDIS shudders and shrieks, but manages to reverse, and the Doctor says the original time trip has polluted Das's cell structure, and he cannot go home.\n\nThe Doctor and Rose go back in time to figure out what's going on. He's rented an apartment for them, gives Jack a psychic credit card, and says they'll be back in a month.\n\nThe TARDIS lands on a plain, with forest nearby. They head into the trees. They see a good-looking young man eating lunch, but when they head toward him, he runs off. While tracking him, they suddenly end up in the remains of a large animal, and hear noises from whatever killed it heading their way. Suddenly, loud thumping music screeches out, and the predator runs off.\n\nThe noise came from two more time travellers, who are unsurprised to see the Doctor and Rose. The two men are dressed like the man they were tracking, are also very good-looking, and both wearing name badges. Rose realizes that they seem very 'blank' and show very little emotion.\n\nThe two men take them Das's squeaky tree, which is a lift that goes to a huge cave containing a wooden city called Osterberg. As they go to meet Chantal, Rose notices that everyone is movie-premiere attractive, except for one man who looks normal and is dressed very eccentrically with a broad brimmed hat and a cape.\n\nChantal is very tall, and incredibly beautiful. She is talking to the man in the hat, who is called Quilley. He is complaining about the experiment being on day forty-nine when it was only planned for forty. Chantal recommends he use combo 662 to stop worrying, and Quilley says he doesn't want it. The Doctor introduces himself and Rose, and while he stays to talk to Chantal, Rose goes with Quilley to talk about 'zoo-tech.'\n\nChantal has Lene show the Doctor around Osterberg. The Doctor decides to see if he can break through the universal indifference show by the Osterbergers by asking Lene to pretend that he knows nothing about the city or why they are there. She looks irritated for a moment, then taps the keypad on her badge and is wildly enthusiastic about explaining it all to him. She tells him that Chantal is the boss, and came up with the idea of traveling to the past. Everything that the team does is for her.\n\nThe Doctor arrives at Quilley's home, and explains that he's worked it out. The Osterbergers come from a time after AD 436,000, when a massive space battle caused Earth to be hit with an EMP-like wave, knocking out all electronics and stopping progress in its tracks. Humanity was forced to focus on non-electronic fields of science, like chemistry and biology. Eventually, the advances in the two fields allowed humans to fully map out the human body. In essence, doctors will act like mechanics - taking people apart and putting them back together with no ill effects. The Doctor shows Rose one of the badges, and tells her that they use pharmacology to block any 'wrong-feeling.' Quilley is a Refuser, and won't use the popper packs.\n\nThe Doctor asks Quilley to show them the time machine that they came in. It runs on steam, and the Doctor wants to check it out thoroughly, so he tells Rose she should investigate the creature they encountered earlier. Quilley tells her that Reddy is going out to visit the Neanderthals, and she could go out with him. She starts to ask if he will care, then realizes he'll just say 'Yeah, fine, whatever' and not ask any questions.\n\nWhen they enter the Neanderthal camp, Reddy (who is the first man seen by Rose and the Doctor) is greeted by a female named Ka. Rose tells them that Das is OK, which they are relieved and happy to know, but that he won't be coming back. Suddenly, there is a great commotion as a band of human cavemen in skins and blue paint attack the village and takes Rose prisoner.\n\nThe Doctor finishes his examination of the engine, and tells Quilley that something is bleeding power off it. They trace the pipe to the 'Grey Door' and go to see what it is. It has a huge locking mechanism, and the Doctor starts to open it with his sonic screwdriver. They hear a voice from the inside, that Quilley identifies as an Osterberger named Tina. The door opens, and at first there is nothing, then a skeleton wearing Tina's name badge is thrown out.\n\nThe Doctor starts to shut the door, but a grey six-fingered had emerges and pushes back. A tall creature looking vaguely humanoid wearing a suit jumps out and asks if they are human. The Doctor says of course not, and orders the creature back inside. He manages to intimidate it and relock the door. The Doctor tells Quilley that the creature is a product of genetic engineering, created by someone in Osterberg.\n\nAs they walk away, they see Chantal approaching with two other Osterbergers. She tells him the creature is called a Hy-Bractor, and the Doctor calls her its mother. She is holding a remote control, which she uses to make the two people with her attack the Doctor and Quilley. They are clubbed unconscious, and the Doctor awakens in Chantal's lab, drugged with a popper pack.\n\nRose wakes up to see an old woman and her son. She gives them her name, and tells them she comes from 'nearer the river.' The woman tells Rose that they have decided she's going to join the family and marry her grandson, which would make her a queen. Rose tries to tell them that she doesn't want to marry Tillun, but her objections are brushed off. She finally tells them that she has to go out alone and appease her tribe's god before the wedding, and walks out of camp.\n\nEven though Chantal has given the Doctor twice the normal dosage of chemicals, he manages to fight them off well enough to tie her to a chair and then go to find Quilley. He rips off his and Quilley's popper packs, and goes to look for an antidote. While looking in the supply centre, he realizes that the popper pack refills are almost gone.\n\nChantal is freed by one of the Osterbergers, who she takes to the Grey Door and feeds to the Hy-Bractor. She then sets all four of them free to eat the rest of the humans, with the exceptions of each other, the Doctor, and herself.\n\nThe Doctor hears the screams, and provokes Quilley enough to overcome some of the effect. He tells him to save as many of the Osterbergers as he can. Then the Doctor goes to warn the Neanderthals and other people on the surface, and to find Rose. Quilley does his best to motivate the Osterbergers, but is only able to escape with two other people. They take the lift to the surface while the Hy-Bractors eat everyone else.\n\nAway from the tribe, Rose realizes she has no idea how to find her way back to the Neanderthals. She has been followed by Tillun, who wants to know why she won't marry him. As she tries to explain, they hear hoofbeats and hide. The bushes are parted, and the Doctor is there. He used the psychic paper (which also does pictures) to tame the horse.\n\nThe Doctor tries to tell the Family that they must hide deep in the cave, but they won't believe him because he is a man and an outsider. Rose asks if they will believe her if she joins the Family, and is told that they will. So Rose agrees to marry Tillun. As soon as the ceremony finishes, she orders them to hide. Tillun tries to make her stay, but the Doctor knocks him down and they leave on the horse.\n\nThe Doctor and Rose find the Neanderthal camp site, but there are only four of them left alive - the rest have been killed by the Hy-Bractors. Chantal walks into the clearing and they are both captured. The Doctor again awakes in Chantal's lab, where she has also brought the TARDIS. She tells the Doctor that it won't open for her, and then threatens Rose if he will not help her get inside. Between the two of them, they manage to capture Chantal and drug her with a double dose from a popper pack.\n\nThe Doctor sets to work designing a way to defeat the Hy-Bractors, and runs outside to disperse it into the air. A Hy-Bractor who was still in Osterberg enters the lab and frees Chantal. When it tries to eat Rose, she opens her mouth and breathes fire on it (the same thing happening to other Hy-Bractors on the surface).\n\nChantal makes her way to the time travel machine, where she is found by the Doctor. He tells her not to enter the beam, but she does and is torn apart by the time winds. The Doctor realizes that the machine is going to blow up, and he and Rose take the TARDIS to the surface. They land near Quilley and the other two Osterbergers, but are then discovered by the remaining Hy-Bractor. The Doctor tells it that Chantal is dead, but that she asked him to tell it to eat anything except humans, and it believes him.\n\nMeanwhile, Jack is helping Das adjust to modern life. By the time the Doctor and Rose return, Das is sufficiently acclimated, has a job, and even finds a girlfriend who suits him. The novel ends with the TARDIS crew jumping forward several weeks to Das's wedding. Back in prehistoric time, Quilley marries Tillun's grandmother, with the remaining Neanderthals and last Hy-Bractor also living with the family.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "436441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436441", "title": "Pashtunwali", "text": "Pashtunwali\n\nPashtunwali () or Pakhtunwali is a non-written ethical code and traditional lifestyle which the indigenous Pashtun people follow. It is a system of law and governance that is preserved and still in use today, mostly in the rural tribal areas. Its meaning may also be interpreted as \"the way of the Pashtuns\" or \"the code of life\". Pashtunwali is widely practiced among Pashtuns, especially among the non-urbanized Pashtuns in the countryside. In addition to being practiced by members of the Pashtun diaspora, it has been adopted by some non-Pashtun Afghans and Pakistanis that live in the Pashtun regions or close to the Pashtuns, who have gradually become Pashtunized over time. During the Pashtun-dominated Taliban regime, a combination of Pashtunwali and Sharia law was practiced throughout the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in conjunction with the Taliban's extreme interpretation of Deobandi Islam.\n\nThe native Pashtun tribes, often described as fiercely independent people, have inhabited the Pashtunistan region (eastern Afghanistan and north western Pakistan) since at least the 1st millennium BC. During that period, much of their mountainous territory has remained outside government rule or control. This is perhaps the main reason why indigenous Pashtuns still follow Pashtunwali, which is a basic common law of the land or \"code of life\".\n\nPashtunwali rules are accepted in Afghanistan and Pakistan (mainly in and around the Pashtunistan region), and also in some Pashtun communities around the world. Some non-Pashtun Afghans and others have also adopted its ideology or practices for their own benefit. Conversely, many urbanized Pashtuns tend to ignore the rules of Pashtunwali. Passed on from generation to generation, Pashtunwali guides both individual and communal conduct. Practiced by the majority of Pashtuns, it helps to promote Pashtunization.\n\nPashtuns embrace an ancient traditional, spiritual, and communal identity tied to a set of moral codes and rules of behaviour, as well as to a record of history spanning some seventeen hundred years.\n\nPashtunwali promotes self-respect, independence, justice, hospitality, love, forgiveness, revenge and tolerance toward all (especially to strangers or guests). It is considered to be the personal responsibility of every Pashtun to discover and rediscover Pashtunwali's essence and meaning.\n\nAlthough not exclusive, the following eleven principles form the major components of Pashtunwali. \nThey are headed with the words of the Pashto language that signify individual or collective Pashtun tribal functions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55097959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55097959", "title": "Post-Islamism", "text": "Post-Islamism\n\nPost-Islamism is a neologism in political science, the definition \nand applicability of which has led to an intellectual debate. Asef Bayat and Olivier Roy are among the main architects of the idea.\n\nThe term was coined by Iranian political sociologist Asef Bayat, then associate professor of sociology at The American University in Cairo in a 1996 essay published in the journal \"Middle East Critique\".\n\nBayat explained it as \"a condition where, following a phase of experimentation, the appeal, energy, symbols and sources of legitimacy of Islamism get exhausted, even among its once-ardent supporters. As such, post-Islamism is not anti-Islamic, but rather reflects a tendency to resecularize religion.\" It originally pertained only to Iran, where \"post-Islamism is expressed in the idea of fusion between Islam (as a personalized faith) and individual freedom and choice; and post-Islamism is associated with the values of democracy and aspects of modernity\". In this context, the prefix \"post-\" does not have historic connotation, but refers to the critical departure from Islamist discourse. Bayat later pointed in 2007 that post-Islamism is both a \"condition\" and a \"project\".\n\n\"Postmodern Islamism\" and \"New Age Islamism\" are other terms interchangeably used.\n\nFrench politician Olivier Carré used the term in 1991 from a different perspective, to describe the period between the 10th and the 19th centuries, when both Shiite and Sunni Islam \"separated the political-military from the religious realm, both theoretically and in practice\".\n\nIn Iran, the Reformists and the group known as the \"Melli-Mazhabi\" (who are ideologically close to the Freedom Movement) are described as post-Islamists.\n\nThe advent of moderate parties Al-Wasat Party in Egypt, as well as Justice and Development Party in Morocco appeared to resemble emergance of post-Islamism, however scholars rejected that they qualify as such. A similar characterization applies to the Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS).\n\nA 2008 Lowy Institute for International Policy paper suggests that Prosperous Justice Party of Indonesia and Justice and Development Party (AKP) of Turkey are post-Islamist. According to Ahmet T. Kuru and Alfred Stepan (2012), many analysts consider Turkish AKP an example of post-Islamism, similar to Christian democratic parties, but Islamic. However, some scholars such as Bassam Tibi dispute this. İhsan Yılmaz argues that the party's ideology after 2011 is different from that of between 2001 and 2011.\n\nThe idea has been used to describe the \"ideological evolution\" within the Ennahda of Tunisia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1920012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1920012", "title": "Psalter (Bamberg, Staatsbibliothek, MS A. I. 14)", "text": "Psalter (Bamberg, Staatsbibliothek, MS A. I. 14)\n\nBamberg State Library, Msc.Bibl.44 is an early 10th century Psalter made for Salomo III, the Abbot of St. Gall in 909. The Psalter has parallel texts with texts in two Latin versions, a Hebrew version, and a Greek version. In 972, the future Otto II when he, at the age of about seventeen, visited the monastery with his father, Otto I, had found a locked chest in the Abbey treasury, which he had demanded opened. When he found that it was full of manuscripts, he took those manuscripts he found interesting, including this one. Although many of the manuscripts were later returned, this one apparently was not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6237447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6237447", "title": "Punjabi culture", "text": "Punjabi culture\n\nThe culture of the Punjab encompasses the spoken language, written literature, cuisine, science, technology, military warfare, architecture, traditions, values and history of the Punjabi people native to the Indian subcontinent. The term 'Punjabi' can mean both a person who lives in Punjab and also a speaker of the Punjabi language. This name originates from the Persian language 'panj', (five), and 'ab', (water). Combined together the word becomes Panjab or Punjab: land of the five rivers. Indus River (the largest river in this five river system), and the five other rivers to the south eventually join Indus or merge into it later in the downstream of the Punjab valley. All the rivers start and flow out of the Himalayas. These other five rivers are Jhelum River, Chenab River, Ravi River, Beas River and Sutlej River.\n\nThe culture of Punjab in the Middle Ages was extremely diverse dependent upon an individual's caste, community, religion and village . An array of cultures can be found historically . The main cultures that arose in the Punjab during the Medieval Age at the beginning of this era was of strong Indo-Aryan dominance . The Brahmins and Khatris were once a singular group living in the Punjab who practiced Hinduism. They were descended from the Vedic people who brought Indo-European language and society to a land dominated by Dravidian history. Their culture was based on their religious beliefs, which could be described as identical to that of Hindus living across North India today. The second strongest emergent cultural identity was Jat and Gujjar culture, based on pastoralism, agriculture and ancestor worship, in modern Punjab. Most of the Western region are descended from Gujjars, whereas the Eastern region is ethnically Jat. Over centuries, Islamic traditions were incorporated into the lives of Punjabi Muslims. These people would often live together marrying others like them and the customs practised centuries ago are still visible in the way all the castes and religious groups live.\n\nDue to the large number of Punjabi people distributed throughout the world, especially Pakistan and India, many people are increasingly experiencing the culture and becoming influenced by it. Glimpses of traditional Punjabi culture can be seen in the Western world (e.g. the U.S., the UK, the EU, Canada, Australia, Africa and the Middle East. Naturally people influence each other wherever they settle and live. Punjabi culture is evident from Punjabi philosophy, poetry, spirituality, education, artistry, music, cuisine, and architecture.\n\nSimilar migrations by or invasions into the Punjab, in the past many centuries, were by the Aryans, Scythians, Greeks or Alexander the Great which reached as far as the Beas River in the Punjab , Mongols Arabs, Persians, Afghans, Turko-Persians (Mughals) and then the Europeans (British) came to Punjab for various economic reasons of their own and its fertile agricultural lands and abundance of water resources in its five large rivers flowing down from the Himalayas through the Punjab valley. These immigrants influenced the people of Punjab and, in turn, were influenced by the then prevailing culture of the Punjab.\n\nBhangra is one of the many Punjabi musical art forms that is increasingly listened to in the west and is becoming a mainstream favourite. Punjabi music is used by western musicians in many ways, such as mixing it with other compositions to produce award-winning music. In addition, Punjabi classical music is increasingly becoming popular in the west. \n\nDevotional songs are played by dhaddi jatha groups, with instruments like sarangi and dhadd drums.\n\nOwing to the long history of the Punjabi culture and of the Punjabi people there are many dances, normally performed at times of celebration, including harvests, festivals, and weddings. The particular background of the dances can be non-religious and religious. The overall style can range from the high energy \"bhangra\" men's dance to the more reserved \"jhumar,\" the \"gidha\" women's dance.\n\nPunjabi wedding traditions and ceremonies are traditionally conducted in Punjabi and are a strong reflection of Punjabi culture. While the actual religious marriage ceremony among Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists and Christians may be conducted in Arabic, Urdu, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Hindi or Pali by the Qazi, Pundit, Granthi or Priest, there are commonalities in ritual, song, dance, food, and dress. The Punjabi wedding has many rituals and ceremonies that have evolved since traditional times.\n\nPunjabi language is written with the Gurmukhi alphabet in India. In Pakistan, the Punjabi language is written with the Shahmukhi alphabet which is similar to the Urdu language alphabet. Approximately 130 million people, mainly in Pakistan's West Punjab and India's East Punjab, speak the Punjabi language which is considered to be an Indo-Aryan language. \nIn the Punjabi literature, there are three major Punjabi romantic epic poems based on folk love stories - \"Heer Ranjha\" by the poet Waris Shah (1722-1798), \"Sohni Mahiwal\" and \"Mirza Sahiban (sung by late Alam Lohar)\". The poetry gives a clear view into the Punjabi mindset. Many Punjabi language books are translated throughout the world into many other languages. Among the major Punjabi poets are Baba Fariduddin Ganjshakar (1179-1266), Baba Guru Nanak (1469-1539) and Bulleh Shah (1680-1757). One of the most important Punjabi holy books is \"Guru Granth Sahib\" in the Sikh religion.\n\nThe traditional dress for Punjabi men is the kurta and tehmat, which is being replaced by the kurta and pajama, especially the popular muktsari style in India. The traditional dress for women is the salwar suit which replaced the traditional Punjabi ghagra. The patiala salwar is also very popular.\n\nPunjabis celebrate cultural, seasonal and religious festivals, which include Maghi, Mela Chiraghan in Lahore, Lohri, Holi, Baisakhi, Teeyan, Diwali, Dussehra, and Guru Nanak Jayant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3010790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3010790", "title": "Qijue", "text": "Qijue\n\nQiyan jueju (七言絕句; abbr. \"qijue\" 七絕), known in Japan as is a type of jueju poetry form consisting of four phrases each seven Chinese characters (or kanji) in length.\n\n\"Shichigon-zekku\" are the most common form of classical Chinese poems (\"kanshi\"), and the standard form of \"shigin\" (Japanese chanted poetry).\n\nIn composing \"Qiyan Jueju\", the character of the phrases (\"Jueju\") is important. The rules are as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3217290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3217290", "title": "Rebozo", "text": "Rebozo\n\nA rebozo is a long flat garment used mostly by women in Mexico. It can be worn in various ways, usually folded or wrapped around the head and/or upper body to shade from the sun, provide warmth and as an accessory to an outfit. It is also used to carry babies and large bundles, especially among indigenous women. The origin of the garment is unclear, but most likely derived in the early colonial period, as traditional versions of the garment show indigenous, European and Asian influences. Traditional rebozos are handwoven from cotton, wool, silk and rayon in various lengths but all have some kind of pattern (usually from the ikat method of dying) and have fringe, which can be finger weaved into complicated designs. The garment is considered to be part of Mexican identity and nearly all Mexican women own at least one. It has been prominently worn by women such as Frida Kahlo, actress María Félix and former Mexican first lady Margarita Zavala and still popular in rural areas of the country. However, its use has diminished in urban areas.\n\nA rebozo is a long straight piece of cloth which looks like a cross between a scarf and a shawl. Like ponchos, huipils and sarapes they are classic Mexican garments made of straight, mostly uncut cloth, but rebozos have their own characteristics. It is classically a woman’s garment, traditionally hand woven, distinguished by complicated finger woven fringes called rapacejos. The wearing of the rebozo is said to make the movement of a woman more graceful. The wearing of a rebozo by many women is a sign of Mexican heritage, and for that reason, sales of the garment can double before Mexican Independence Day on September 16. Because of the nature of the garment, especially the fringes, they should be hand washed. The dye may or may not be colorfast so mild soap should be used.\n\nWhile all rebozos are rectangular woven cloth with fringes, there is significant variation within these constraints. There are three classes of rebozos. Traditional ones have a design created with the ikat dying technique and come in various set patterns. Regional rebozos are more colorful and their origins can be identified, especially those from Oaxaca, Chiapas and Guerrero. Contemporary rebozos experiment with non-traditional fibres and designs. Sizes vary with lengths varying anywhere from 1.5 to about 3.5 meters long. Most Mexican rebozos are made from cotton, wool, silk or rayon. The type of fibre used is the main factor in determining a price of a piece which can vary from a couple hundred pesos to thousands of pesos, with fine pure silk pieces being the most expensive. The finest silk rebozos can be passed through a wedding ring.\n\nRebozo colors and patterns vary widely and traditional designs can usually identify where it was made. For example, a tightly woven black and indigo version is identified with the mountains areas of the state of Michoacán. Designs are generally classified as “classic” and “indigenous.” Classic rebozos come in various colors with designs based on the pre Hispanic art of plumaría, or creating images with feathers. Some of these have their fringes knotted to form images of animals and stares. However, almost all are created with the ikat technique. The most famous classic rebozo style is called “de bolitas” whose name comes from little knots of string tied onto groups of threads used in its production. Among indigenous groups designs and colors almost always indicate with group the woman belongs. While most rebozos use more than one color, monochrome versions are called “chalinas.”\nRebozos have two main functions, that of a garment and that as a carrying aid. As a garment, it can be an indispensable part of the wardrobe of many mestizo and indigenous women, especially those who live in rural areas. As a shawl, it can provide warmth (especially the thicker and wool ones), worn on the head to block the sun as well as for modesty especially in church, For city and upper class women who use them, they can be worn inside the home but are most often used as an accessory to an outfit, especially on certain occasions. As a carrying aid, it can be tied around the head or shoulders most often to carry small children and large bundles, mostly commonly among indigenous women. The rebozo has even figured into Mexican traditional medicine. It has been used as a tourniquet, as support for a woman in later pregnancy, as an aid to a woman in labor, supporting her allowing for rhythmic movements and positioning with aim of making childbirth easier. It can also be used to alleviate headaches by tying it tightly around the head. Other uses for the rebozo have been in indigenous traditional dances and even as a shroud. One modern and innovative way to wear it has been to twist it around the upper body and fastened to make a kind of blouse or top.\n\nThe name comes from Spanish, from the verb that means to cover or envelope oneself. However, there have been indigenous names for it as well, such as “ciua nequealtlapacholoni” in colonial era Nahuatl, which means “that which touches a woman or something like her,” “mini-mahua” among the Otomis and in the Nahuatl of Hueyapan, Morelos, it is called “cenzotl” comes from a phrase that means “cloth of a thousand colors.”\n\nThe origin of the rebozo is not known, but probably had its beginnings in the very early colonial period. The first mention and description of the garment in written records is in 1572 by Friar Diego Duran, according to research done by Ruth D. Lechuga. The rebozo itself shows various influences, which probably come from the various cultures that had contact at that time. There are various indigenous garments that share physical characteristics with the rebozo. They include the ayate, a rough cloth of maguey fibre used to carry cargo, the mamatl, which is a cotton cloth also used to carry objects and which often had a decorative border, and the tilma (used for carrying and as a garment), a cloth best known from the one Juan Diego wore and which bears the image of the Virgin of Guadalupe. There are chronicles that say that La Malinche carried a cloth called a “Manta del sol” (sun cloth) which was not just used to protect from the sun but also to denote status as decoration. However, pre Hispanic clothing and other cloths did not have woven fringes. The main European influence is most likely the Spanish mantilla, although a southern Spanish garment called a rebociño (introduced to the area by the Moors) may have also played a part. Later influences probably came from Asia with the start of trade from the Manila Galleon.\nIts origin was most likely among the lower, mestizo classes in the early colonial period, being most prominent among them first. The most traditional rebozos show coloring and designs from the colonial period and mestizo women probably wore them to distinguish themselves from indigenous women but could not afford Spanish finery. In 1625, Thomas Gage noted that blacks and mixed race people in Mexico wore wide strips of clothes on their head instead of the Spanish mantilla. In the colonial period how it was worn distinguished married women from single. Married women wore it loose covering the top of the head down over the back. Single women would wrap it tighter, allowing more of the back to be seen. These garment were initially made of cotton but by later in the colonial period, they were also made of wool and silk. Their use eventually spread into indigenous communities becoming an integral part of many women’s attire and culture. For example, an Otomi woman used to dip a point of her rebozo into water to indicate that she was thinking of her betrothed or husband. One important use for the garment in colonial times to the 19th century was for women to cover their heads in church. After its initial development in Mexico, its use spread south into Central America and even as far as Ecuador.\n\nThe rebozo was in common use among the middle and lower classes by the 18th century, with the kind of fibre used to weave it distinguishing the two. The garment was in common use among women by the 18th century. At that time the Count of Revillagigedo noted that it was worn by all women except nuns and those of the uppermost classes. The two most common fibres were cotton and the more expensive cotton/silk or silk. Sizes and designs varied but those made with the ikat dying technique became dominant. In some parts of Mexico, a woman was given a rebozo by a man as a way to propose matrimony instead of a ring. The finest rebozos included ornate embroidery including silver and gold thread. One fashion of that century was to embroider country scenes.\n\nIn 1886, a synthetic silk called rayon was created in France. The use of this cheaper thread made decorative rebozos more affordable. Its use as an identifying marker of Mexican identity began at this time as well with even the Empress Carlota wearing it on various formal occasions, especially while at her country home in Cuernavaca. By the end of the 19th century, the garment had become indispensable and their making an important handcraft.\n\nIts symbolic function continued into the Mexican Revolution, and item associated with rebel women called “Adelitas,” who carried both babies and weapons wrapped inside past federal checkpoints. During this time, the rebozo was also often used as a shroud for the dead. Much of the world’s familiarity with the rebozo comes from later cinematic depictions of Adelitas, but it also accentuated the garment’s use with indigenous women, poverty and low socioeconomic station.\nToday, the rebozo can be found in all parts of Mexico and just about all women in the country own at least one regardless of socioeconomic class. In many villages, women are still born in them, grow up with them, get married with them and are buried in them. It is still commonly worn in church by rural women. During the 20th century, the rebozo came to be seen as both a sign of modesty/tradition and of revolution including in some communities in the United States. For women of the Chicano movement, it represented the “complete woman” as both feminine and strong, ready to fight for “the Cause.” Personalities which have prominently worn rebozos include María Félix, Frida Kahlo, Lila Downs and model Luly Jáuregui as well as former Mexican First Lady Margarita Zavala who was noted for wearing the garment at state functions. The rebozo has appeared in popular culture and media as well as literature. During Mexican cinema’s Golden Age the garment appeared in many movies including one named “El Rebozo de Soledad” (Soledad’s Rebozo). A de bolita patterned rebozo is mentioned in one of Francisco Gabilondo Soler’s famous children’s songs.\n\nHowever, despite its status as a national symbol, its use has diminished among women, especially those in cities. One reason for this is that the garment is associated with indigenous groups and poverty and another is that the fine handwoven rebozos, especially of silk are very expensive because of the skilled labor required. (tenancingohis) Many of the most expensive rebozos are no longer made in many parts of the country, with the exceptions of Santa María del Río and the city of San Luis Potosí. The number of weavers of all types of rebozos have diminished. For example, there are only fifty in the entire state of Jalisco, almost all concentrated in a few municipalities such as Sayula and Tuxpan.\n\nEfforts have been made to preserve and promote the use of the rebozo in various ways. In 1953, the Escuela de Rebozo (Rebozo School) was established to teach the weaving techniques used. In 2002 the school won the Premio Nacional de Artes y Tradiciones Populares. Other institutions dedicated to the craft are Museo de Rebozo in La Piedad, Michoacan, the Tejedoras de la Tercera Edad, run by CONACULTA in Acatlán, Veracruz and the Taller de Rebocería in the Casa de la Cultura in Tenancingo, State of Mexico. Since the 1940s, various techniques have been used to modernize the design of the garment, including the use of sequins. Some modern Mexican fashion designers like Lydia Lavín and Monserrat Messeguer have designed modern versions of the garment, using new fabrics and international patterns, such as those from the Oriente and Africa.\n\nRebozos have been the center of museum, cultural and fashion events in Mexico. Various fairs and festivals dedicated to the garment are held in places such as Matamoros, Jiquilpan, Tenancingo, and Zapopan. The first Concurso Nacional del Rebozo (National Rebozo Contest) was held in San Luis Potosí in 2004. The Universidad del Valle de Atemajac, Campus La Piedad created a video called “El Arte del Rebozo” to promote the garment both online and at international events. The university held a conference with the same name in 2012. For the 100th anniversary celebrations of the Mexican Revolution in Coyoacán, Mexico City, the rebozo was featured prominently. The Museo Nacional de Culturas Populares in Mexico City held an event called “Tápame con tu rebozo” in 2012, to promote the use and sale of the garment. Exhibitions of rebozos have also been held in the U.S. Southwest with the first Festival del Rebozo in the country held in New Mexico, exhibitions at the University of Texas Brownsville at the Austrey Museum in Los Angeles and Fresno holds an annual Day of the Rebozo Festival.\nThere is also a museum dedicated to the garment in Guadalajara called La Casa del Rebozo. In addition to a collection of rebozos in many sizes, colors and textures, it offers conferences, classes, workshops and fashion shows to promote the garment.\n\nMexico is the main producer and exporter of rebozos, but some are also produced in Spain and Portugal. Average time to make a traditionally woven rebozo is thirty to sixty days with anywhere fifteen to 200 different steps depending on how complicated the design is and the type of fibre being used. For example, rebozos made of real silk take longer to weave. Those made of rayon have about 3,000 warp threads on average and those made of real silk have about 3,800.\n\nThe dying process is done before weaving, with the most common technique being the ikat method, sometimes called “amarrado” (lit. stingy) In the most traditional work, thread is dyed with natural colors, with colors such as black, blue, red, purple and green but synthetic dyes are now often used. The patterns of the garment are determined by a sequence of colors dyed into the thread, with color changes made similar to tie-dying. Groups of threads are tied together tightly at intervals so that the dye cannot enter some areas. After dying, the knots are cut off. The weaving begins by cutting the warp threads to the length of the final product. The number of threads determines the width. They are woven on both backstrap looms and European style looms. The groups of warp threads are then placed on the loom in order to work out the design that the body of the cloth will have. After weaving, the last rows of the weft are finger weaved to secure them, which is complicated and meticulous work, often done by women specialized in this. Isabel Rivera and Julia Sánches of Santa María have won national and international awards for their work, with the ability to weave letters into the fringes of rebozos. In some areas, after they are finished, rebozos are “smoked” with rosemary branches or are stored with apples or quince in order to make them smell good.\nThere are a number of locations in Mexico which produce traditional rebozos including, Zamora, Ahuirán, Turícuaro, Angahuan, Santa Cruz, Tocuaro, Zitácuaro, Cuanajo, Arocutín and Tangancícuaro in Michoacán, Moroleón and Uriangato in Guanajuato, the Altos de Chiapas region, Xochistlahuaca in Guerrero, the Sierra Norte de Puebla, San Pedro Cajonos, Pinotepa de Don Luis, Yalalag, and Santa María Tlahuitoltepec in Oaxaca as well as the Cooperativa Textil Artesanal in the city of Oaxaca and Chiautempan, Tlaxcala, However, there are several important locations whose work are featured in important collections such as that of the Rockefeller family. These include Santa María del Río, Tenancingo and La Piedad.\n\nSanta María del Río is a small rural town in the state of San Luis Potosí, containing country homes for the well-to-do in the city of San Luis Potosí. The entrance arch of the town states “Santa María del Río, cuna del rebozo” (Santa María del Río, cradle of the rebozo). Even the local baseball team is named after rebozo weavers, called the “Reboceros.” It is known for its production of finely woven rebozos especially in silk and rayon, with cotton ones made as well. Weaving was introduced to the area shortly after the conquest and gained fame by the 17th century. Silk production was introduced originally in Oaxaca by the Dominicans. Despite prohibitions, Junípero Serra introduced their cultivation into the region in the 18th century, with silk production and weaving becoming widespread by the late 19th century into the 20th. The variety of silk traditionally used in these rebozos is called “catiteo.” After the Mexican Revolution, the haciendas producing silk were broken up and many weavers turned to rayon and very few are still made with pure silk. Their production is done by families, but only by the women, with a number winning national awards for their work. In Santa María the use of various browns is a distinguishing characteristic of the region. Other common colors are black, blue, red, purple and green along occasional white threads which appear as flecks in the final product. There are a number of traditional color combinations and designs with names such as calabrote, Rosita, rosarito, culebrilla calado and more. Santa Maria hosts a Feria del Rebozo in August and is home to the Escuela de Rebozo (Rebozo School) and a cooperative called the Taller Escuela de Rebocería.\n\nThe making of cotton rebozos is important in Tenancingo and an image of the garment appears in the municipality’s seal. Tenancingo’s rebozos come in a wide variety of prices from 400 to 4,000 pesos, depending on the quality of the cotton, the complexity of the design and the thread count. The craft was developed in Tenancingo by the 17th century and reached its peak during the 19th century. The creation of the garment remains important both culturally and economically, with the work here recognized at the national and international levels. One of the town’s most important weavers is Evaristo Borboa.\n\nThe mountain areas of Michoacán have been noted for an indigo blue variety of rebozo, known as the Michoacán or Tarasco rebozo. In the 1930s and 1940s, the city of La Piedad, Michoacán became a major producer of rebozos of both natural and synthetic fibres. In 1946 the Unión de Reboceros de La Piedad was formed and in 1958, the Sindicato Único de Reboceros de La Piedad.\n"}
{"id": "48702954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48702954", "title": "School Shock", "text": "School Shock\n\nSchool Shock, also known as \"Chu Feng B.E.E\" (), , often stylized 雛蜂-B.E.E-, is a Chinese manhua and animated series. Originally a sci-fi webcomic, \"School Shock\" was adapted into an animation when it gained popularity.\n\nThe series began airing in China on July 23, 2015 and in Japan on August 15, 2015. It is the first Chinese-made animated series to be broadcast simultaneously in China (in Mandarin) and Japan (in Japanese). Japanese critics described the series as Japanese anime produced in China and lacking Chinese creative elements.\n\n\"School Shock\" comic books have also been published in Simplified Chinese by a Jilin publisher, and in Traditional Chinese by a Hong Kong publisher.\n"}
{"id": "16585855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16585855", "title": "Secular Christmas stories", "text": "Secular Christmas stories\n\nThere exists a wide range of secular Christmas stories, told in popular music, on television, and in the cinema, that are told about the Christian holiday of Christmas, that may be based on or allegorize the biblical Christian mythology of Christmas, as the birth of Jesus, but not necessarily. The stories may also have newer interpretations and introduce new characters (such as Rudolph the reindeer). These secular Christmas stories could be classified as mythopoeia (invented mythology), or Christian allegories.\n\nSanta Claus is the English name for the Christian Saint Nicholas, secularized in popular culture as an old man with supernatural powers living at the North Pole, much like magic and powerful characters in mythology: Santa Claus has supernatural powers and uses them to magnanimously deliver gifts to children around the world. Santa was based on the legends of Saint Nicholas. Santa was given an amplified mythological identity in the Clement Moore poem \"A Visit from St. Nicholas\" (the title of which is often misidentified as \"Twas The Night Before Christmas.\") Comparative mythologies have also noted the ancient Germanic myths of Thor driving a cart led by goats in the sky (which led to the folklore of the Yule Goat) is like Santa driving a sleigh led by reindeers in the sky, so think Santa may stem from both Christian and pre-Christian Germanic mythology.\n\nIn the 1950s, several Christmas cartoons emerged that deliberately adopt elements of Christian stories to convey the \"true meaning of Christmas\" in allegorical terms.\n\nAn early film, \"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer (TV special)\" based on a Gene Autry song, involved a rejected and mocked reindeer that ends up leading the other reindeer through the help of a misfit elf and misfit toys.\n\nSimilarly, \"Frosty the Snowman\" contains several Christian motifs, is the story of a snowman who comes to life for a time, melts (dies) but also reassures his childlike followers that he will \"be back again some day.\" The television special developed from this song invents the concept of Frosty being made from \"Christmas snow\" which entails that he can never completely melt away and thus has an eternal essence.\n\nFollowing these early television Christmas specials, there have been countless other Christmas TV specials and movies produced for the \"holiday season\" that are not explicitly Christian but seek to describe \"true spirit of Christmas\" beliefs, such as \"togetherness,\" \"being with family,\" charitable acts, and belief that even bad people or situations can be redeemed. While many sundry examples of exist, examples of films with Christian mythical elements include: \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas! (film),\" \"A Charlie Brown Christmas,\" and various adaptations of \"A Christmas Carol\" by Charles Dickens.\n\nThese conceptions of the \"true meaning of Christmas\" are also sung about in Christmas albums.\n"}
{"id": "970063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=970063", "title": "Sideboard", "text": "Sideboard\n\nA sideboard, also called a buffet, is an item of furniture traditionally used in the dining room for serving food, for displaying serving dishes, and for storage. It usually consists of a set of cabinets, or cupboards, and one or more drawers, all topped by a flat display surface for conveniently holding food, serving dishes, or lighting devices. The words \"sideboard\" and \"buffet\" are somewhat interchangeable, but if the item has short legs, or a base that sits directly on the floor with no legs, it is more likely to be called a \"sideboard\"; if it has longer legs it is more likely to be called a \"buffet\".\n\nThe earliest versions of the sideboard familiar today made their appearance in the 18th century, but they gained most of their popularity during the 19th century as households became prosperous enough to dedicate a room solely to dining. Sideboards were made in a range of decorative styles and were frequently ornamented with costly veneers and inlays. In later years, sideboards have been placed in living rooms or other areas where household items might be displayed.\n\nIn traditional formal dining rooms today, an antique sideboard is a desirable and fashionable accessory, and finely styled versions from the late-18th or early-19th centuries are the most sought-after and most costly. Among its counterparts in modern furniture styles, the form is often referred to as a server. Some of the earliest production of sideboards arose in England, France, Belgium and Scotland. Later, American designs arose. Characteristic materials used in historic sideboard manufacture include mahogany, oak, pine, and walnut.\n\n"}
{"id": "1646243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1646243", "title": "Skanger", "text": "Skanger\n\nSkanger is a derogatory term for a person, mainly in Ireland, roughly equivalent to the British chav. Both words refer to a socioeconomic grouping typical of low income urban working class youths. There are many stereotypes of each group, and popular culture often openly ridicule many aspects of the lifestyle. Typically skangers are associated with aggressive attitudes, lack of respect for police force, anti social behaviour, street drinking and drug abuse. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51952868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51952868", "title": "Snapp (company)", "text": "Snapp (company)\n\nSnapp is a ride-hailing company from Tehran, Iran. Snapp launched in February 2014. Users can request a ride via the iOS or Android app, by indicating their location and destination. The price of the trip is set beforehand, to eliminate haggling. Snapp commissions drivers upon completing a background check, and showing a valid drivers license and insurance before hiring them.\n\nSnapp is the only ride-hailing application in Iran which offers its website in Persian, English and French, becoming one of the most popular apps with foreigners in Iran.\n\nCurrently Snapp operates in Arak, Urmia, Isfahan and Suburbs (Najaf Abad, Fuladshahr, Shahin Shahr), Ahwaz, Babol, Bandar Abbas, Tabriz and suburbs, Tehran and suburbs, Rasht and suburbs, Sari and suburbs, Shiraz and suburbs, Qaem Shahr, Qazvin, Qom, Karaj and Suburb, Kerman, Mashhad, Yazd, Neyshaboor, Gorgan, Ardebil, Hamedan & Bushehr. They are looking to expand to new cities, and may even seek to expand internationally.\n\nTechCrunch announced on October 9, 2016 that it had received a $20 million investment in a Series A round led by MTN Group, a South-African multinational. According to Shahram Shahkar, the CEO of the company, Snapp now employs more than 300,000 active drivers and more than 500 personnel (2017).\n\n"}
{"id": "194641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194641", "title": "Social services", "text": "Social services\n\nSocial services are a range of public services provided by the government, private, profit and non-profit organizations. These public services aim to create more effective organizations, build stronger communities, and promote equality and opportunity.Social services bring a type of nationalism in ourselves.Social services bring a lot of change in our society.\n\nSocial services include the benefits and facilities such as education, food subsidies, health care, police, fire service, job training and subsidized housing, adoption, community management, policy research, and lobbying.\n\n"}
{"id": "28100194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28100194", "title": "Society for Disability Studies", "text": "Society for Disability Studies\n\nThe Society for Disability Studies is an international academic network of disability studies practitioners. It often abbreviates its name to SDS, though that abbreviation continues to be used by academics and political scientists to describe the Students for a Democratic Society organization in the United States. The society's overall goal is to promote disability studies as a serious academic discipline on par with philosophy, the social sciences, and similar fields.\n\nIn 1993 the society adopted an official definition of \"Disability Studies\":\n\"... examines the policies and practices of all societies to understand the social, rather than the physical or psychological determinants of the experience of disability. Disability Studies has been developed to disentangle impairments from the myths, ideology and stigma that influence social interaction and social policy. The scholarship challenges the idea that the economic and social statuses and the assigned roles of people with disabilities are the inevitable outcomes of their condition.\"\n\nThe organization was founded in 1982 first as the Section for the Study of Chronic Illness, Impairment, and Disability (SSCIID), and renamed Society for Disability Studies in 1986. Its founders are Daryl Evans, Nora Groce, Steve Hey, Gary Kiger, John Seidel, Jessica Scheer and Irving Kenneth Zola (1935-1994). The Society for Disability Studies is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.\n\nThe Society maintains affiliation status with the Western Social Science Association (WSSA) through its Chronic Disease and Disability section. Currently, the SDS has hundreds of members both nationally and internationally who continue to make disability studies a part of academic conversations.\n\nThe Society for Disability Studies holds an annual conference in June and publishes a quarterly peer-reviewed journal, the \"Disability Studies Quarterly\". The journal is published exclusively online. SDS has created a good model to follow when approaching publishers about their accessibility.\n\nIn 2015, Adam Newman organized the \"Digital Access Facilitation Team\" (DAFT) to make the 2015 annual conference of the Society for Disability Studies more accessible for a wider range of attendees. DAFT is coordinated by the Society's Student Caucus, whose members are a group of 25-30 students of SDS. Working in teams of two, members of DAFT were live-tweeting every session, contingent upon the consent of presenters. Live-tweeting all sessions and following standards for that emerging media, allowed a new way of producing accessibility for the disability community. In the Society for Disability Studies, there are a number of caucuses which “designate groups that are under-represented within society or SDS as an organization.” DAFT is composed entirely of students (undergraduate, graduate, professional) who work on behalf of the interest and needs of students. \n\nThere are several options for membership opportunities, even if someone is unable to pay the membership fees they will not be turned away; \"No one is denied membership in SDS due to an inability to pay an established membership fee.\"\n\nTwo awards have been established by the society \"to honor individuals who have shown dedication to Disability studies\": the \"Senior Scholar Award\" and the \"Irving K. Zola Award for Emerging Scholars in Disability Studies\". The \"Senior Scholar Award\" is awarded to individuals who have made significant contributions to the field of disability studies. Past award winners: Devva Kasnitz (2014), Richard Scotch (2013), Carol Gill (2012), Tobin Siebers (2011), Rosemarie Garland Thomson (2010), Elizabeth Depoy and Stephen Gilson (2009), and Steven J. Taylor (2008). On the contrary, the \"Irving K. Zola Award for Emerging Scholars in Disability Studies\" is awarded to an up and coming individual who also has made significant contributions to the field of disability studies.\n\n\nBelow is a list of the current and past presidents of the SDS.\n\n"}
{"id": "18360734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18360734", "title": "Sotdae", "text": "Sotdae\n\nA sotdae () is a tall wooden pole or stone pillar with a carved bird on its top, built for the purpose of folk belief in Korea. Like \"jangseung\", wooden totem poles with a sculptured human face, it was usually erected near the entrance of a village to ward off evil spirits as well as to represent villagers' wishes for prosperity and well-being. Later, it was also built as a celebratory or commemorative symbol. For instance, when a son of a family passed a civil service examination called \"gwageo\", a \"sotdae\" was set up in the yard. In that case, it was colored in orange and topped with a blue dragon.\n\n\"Sotdae\" were generally set up alone, but sometimes, along with \"jangseung\" (Korean totem poles), \"dolta\"p (돌탑, a pagoda built with stone) or \"sinmok\" (신목, sacred trees). It was worshiped as a village guardian. The birds may look like wild geese, crows or ibises in some areas, but ducks are the most common. \"Sotdae\" have different names according to regions; \"soju\" (소주), \"sojutdae\" (소줏대) in Jeolla Province, \"soldae\" (솔대) in Gangwon Province and Hamhung district, \"byeolsindae\" (별신대) in coastal areas of Gyeongsang Province,and \"sotdaek\" (솟댁) in Hwanghae and Pyeongan Province. \"Pyojutdae\" (표줏대), \"georitdae\" (거릿대), \"susalmok\" (수살목) and \"seonangdae\" (선앙대) are other names.\n\nNothing precise is known about the sotdae's origin. However, \"sotdae\" was believed to be sanctified as a village guardian from when people started agriculture and the unit of society formed based on agricultural villages. Later, as a concept of feng shui prevailed and values of success and honour became important, its meaning seemed to be differentiated from an object of worship to a totem for abundant harvest. Ducks, as migratory birds, had various religious symbols and made the meanings of \"sotdae\" more diverse.\n\nThe worship of \"sotdae\"-like objects was commonly found in North Asia. Figures or patterns on Bronze Age relics that included a pole with a bird on it were discovered around these areas. As people began to develop techniques for metalworking and increased their agriculture production, power differences among tribes emerged. Dominating class sought a political and religious foundation needed to maintain their powers from gods in the heaven. So it was assumed that appearance of sotdae stemmed from the integration between \"Cosmic Tree\" and \"Sky-Birds\".\n\nA similar sacred pole is found among the Omaha tribe of the central United States.\n\nPoles and posts have religious and symbolic meanings around the world. Poles of sotdae are related to 'the world-axis'. There are three cosmic levels in the concept of the universe in Northern Asian shamanism ― upper, middle, and lower level. They are connected to each other by the world-axis. A tree has roots extending into the earth and also grows toward the sky, which could be a symbol for the world-axis. So the wooden poles or posts were possibly considered to be a pathway for spiritual beings to come down to earth and they became a sacred object to worship by themselves. A similar record was found in a book titled \"Dongguksesigi\" (동국세시기, 東國歲時記), which said that 12 wooden poles were set up to welcome a god on February 2 in Jeju island. Also \"Dangun\" 's father, \"Hwanung\", descended from the heaven to the top of a tree, \"Sindansu\" (신단수, 神壇樹) in Korea's founding myth. People selected a tree which was beyond the reach of humans and they conducted ceremonial rites before they cut down the tree. On top of that, the poles and posts were believed to offer protection a village against calamities and disasters and also acted like a mast in a U-shaped land area balancing and making the land stable.\n\nSotdae birds may be wild geese, gulls, ibises, Korean magpies or crows, but most commonly they are ducks. Ducks give an important symbolic meaning to sotdae. They are able to travel on water as well as on land and in the air and also can go under water. Because of the relation to water, ducks were regarded to have an ability to control rain and thunder, to survive in the floods and to protect a village from fire. This belief made people think of ducks as a guardian in ancient agricultural societies. Relating to this, a famous scholar, Lee Gyubo (이규보, 李奎報 1168–1241) wrote a following phrase in his garland called \"Dongguk I sangguk jip\" (동국이상국집, 東國李相國集: Collected works of Minister Yi of Korea): \"Because of the rain for 7 days in a row, the capital of Songyang was submerged. The king, Jumong, was riding a duck horse stretching a reed rope across the river and his people were all holding that rope.\" This suggests that people considered a duck as a rescuer from flood.\n\nAnother characteristic of ducks is that they are migratory birds coming to Korea in autumn. Migratory birds appear and disappear on a regular basis and it was believed that ducks travel to the world beyond the Earth and act as a messenger between the physical world and the realm of the spirits. In agriculture, this periodicity might be associated with the cycle of monsoon which brings rain. Also, the fact that ducks are fertile species and lay bigger eggs than chickens do would be a good reason for ducks to be an idolized object representing abundance.\n\nThe shape of birds on sotdae was carved as minutely as possible but it was sometimes simplified to just Y or ㄱ shape. The number of birds seated on sotdae was different from village to village, from one to three. Commonly one bird was seated on a pole, but sometimes two or three birds on a Y-shape branch were found on a pole ― either facing each other or facing the same direction. Nothing is exactly known concerning the number of birds but it is assumed that the number of birds on a pole was decided according to the number of places which 'qi' should be complemented. The direction of the bird's heads varies. People made sotdae erected toward south to wish moderate weather for farming or let it direct north to bring rain. Sometimes sotdae turned toward the outside of the village to make sure that ducks take all the evil spirits and fly away.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13752176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13752176", "title": "Spin art", "text": "Spin art\n\nSpin art is an art form that uses paint, a canvas such as glossy cardboard and a spinning platform. It is primarily used to entertain and expose children to the process of art creation, although it can be enjoyed by people of all ages.\n\nTo create spin art, an artist initially decorates or drips paint onto a canvas. The canvas can be anything; however, the most common form of canvas is a small rectangular piece of cardboard. Before the paint on the canvas dries, the artist secures the canvas to a platform that can be rotated at high speed. Once the canvas is secure, the artist can then begin spinning the canvas. Most spinning platforms are electrical or battery operated, with more elaborate platforms enabling the artist to vary the rotational speed.\n\nAs the canvas rotates, centrifugal forces draw the wet paint outwards, creating intricate designs. The artist can drip more paint onto the canvas while it is spinning, thus layering paints on top of each other, creating different effects. Using different colors, a skilled spin artist can blend colors together into subtle designs. At any point during this process, the artist can stop the spinning platform to view the canvas. Since the canvas is usually rotating at a high rate, it is difficult if not impossible to view the image on the canvas until the platform has stopped spinning, thus creating a sense of surprise and uncertainty during the creation process.\n\n \nSince the 1960s spin art can be seen in the works of certain contemporary artists. The artists using this technique often reconfigure their own machines by incorporating a more powerful engine than those belonging to schools. The variety of results that this technique produces gives us a good idea of the infinite possibilities.\nProfessional artists:\n\nAlfons Schilling\n\nDuring the 1960s Alfons Schilling was one of the first artists to become interested in spin art. action painting also had a large influence on his work and added to its originality. Instead of installing it vertically he did it horizontally.\n\nAnnick Gendron\n\nFrom 1968 to 1973 the French artist Annick Gendron used industrial wheels to spin paint on Plexiglas. At the end of the 1960s she was one of the first artist to use centrifugal force to produce large-sized artworks. Inspired by children's games : spin art, spin painting, her goal was to transcend this modest use to get the most spectacular effects from it. Damien Hirst got the same idea in the 1990s, as her he transcends the original practice, by the use of more spectacular materials, sizes, shapes, and skill improvement. Her work has been shown at the Raymond Duncan Gallery, at the Bernheim-Jeune Gallery, at the Salon des Indépendants and Surindependant at the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris, at the Salon des Artistes Français at the Grand Palais and the Salon d'Automne in Paris.\n\nDamien Hirst\n\nFrom 1995 the British artist Damien Hirst started a series of spin paintings. His finished pieces are circular in shape and mounted onto steel frames. This is a series of original works of art and screen prints. He was inspired by memories of the technique of spin painting which he saw as a child on the BBC's \"Blue Peter\".\n\nLawrence Stafford\n\nDuring the late 1960s developed a spinning rotating machine on which he attached raw canvas and sprayed acrylic paint while the drum spun. He exhibited those abstract paintings in the United States and in Germany in 1968-1969. Several are in important museum collections including the Whitney Museum of American Art.\n\nMark Chadwick\n\nMark Chadwick's art is concerned by the use of machines in a production of an artwork, questioning what happens to an artwork once a machine has been used in its production. Chadwick often creates paintings using the spinning technique to introduce the element of chance and questioning the control of the artist. He consistently changes the method and considers all types of aspects to create different works.\n\n"}
{"id": "56726946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56726946", "title": "St Martin's Church (Split)", "text": "St Martin's Church (Split)\n\nSt. Martin's Church (), is a Roman Catholic church in Split, Croatia. Built into a small space (an early guardhouse) within the ancient Golden Gate of Diocletian's northern wall above the Golden Gate (Porta aurea). Today St. Martin's Church is one of Split's tourist attractions (one of only two closest churches in the city) and while it is in the care of the Dominican sisters, who have a monastery next door, it is open to the public to visit.\n\nlocated in a cavity of the west wall above the Golden Gate of Diocletian's Palace. That space, in the time of Diocletian (285-305), was a narrow corridor (10 x 1.65 m) that was used as a guardhouse, with the windows on the south side for surveillance. These remain well preserved to the present day in their original form, while windows on the north side date from the city's defence against the Ottoman Turks. The inscription along the architrave of the entrance door: \n<poem>\nREX BENEDICTE D(EU)S, LAUDIS DECUS IMPERI V(IRTUS)Q(UE.\n(H)ANC (ECCLESIAM) CONSTITUIT SUB (H)ONORE(M) BEATI MARTINI\n(H)UMIL(I)TE(R) (HA)EC ATQ(UE) POTE(N)S P(RES)B(Y)T(E)R DOMINICUS.\nSALVE PA(TER)...T TIBI P(ER) N(OST)RI PECTORIS ANTRA COLI.\n</poem>\ntranslated by archaeologist Frane Bulić reads: (Blessed by God, our King, to you the glory, honour and power! Founding this Church for the glory of the blessed Martin, in modesty and according to your means the priest Dominic. \"Hail Father Martin, allow us to worship you from the bottom of our soul and heart in this small cavern\") In identifying Dominic, Bulić dated the inscription to the ninth century and the region of Trpimir I. It seems the (knez) chaplain Dominic, renovated the former guardhouse into the first Christian church in the city dedicated to the Virgin Mary, Saint Gregory I and St. Martin of Tours (the father of western monasticism). \n\nOn 4 March 852 Trpimir issued a charter in Biaći (\"in loco Byaci dicitur\") in the Latin language, confirming Mislav's donations to the Archbishopric in Split. The charter is preserved in a copy from 1568. In this document, Trpimir named himself \"by the mercy of God, Duke of the Croats\" () and his realm as the \"Realm of the Croats\" (\"Regnum Chroatorum\"). The term \"regnum\" was used by other rulers of that time as a sign of their independence and did not necessarily mean a kingdom. The charter documents Trpimir's decision to build a church (possibly St Martin's) and the first Benedictine monastery in Rižinice, thus bringing the Benedictins into Croatia.\n\nOn the architrave, together with his own name, Trpimir also had the name of his other chaplain (also called Martin). The Main altar too dates from the 9th century. The church later provided certain amenities such as a settlement for Dominican sisters (which dates as far back as the 14th century). It was rediscovered in 1890 by Bulić, following his study of the palace and recommended its renovation. on that occasion, the new altar and nave were built. In 1929, during the enlargement of one of the windows, a tablet was discovered with an engraved inscription: \"The unworthy servant, priest Dominic, chaplain of Duke Trpimir\". Bulić believed that this might represent the gravestone of Dominic. Today it is kept Archaeological Museum.\n\nThe northern gate of the Palace had been conceived as the main entrance and so it had been elaborately decorated with statues of Emperor Diocletian and his co-regent Maximian, in the upper row of the niches, the nd with sculpture of an eagle (a symbol of Jupiter), between the two. There were the statues of their two successors to the throne - Caesar's Galerius and Constantine - in the lower row of the niches. This conclusion can be made on account of the imperial iconography pattern, effective at the time of tetrarchy (rule by four persons). On the top of the wall, there have been four pedestals preserved until the present day (while there were five of them on the drawings from the 18th century), that could have been used as a supporting base for statues, but it is unlikely to believe that the imperial figures would have been repeated twice on the same façade. So far there has not been a veritable explanation given for this double usage. This could be concluded by the presence of patron saints, (later added) to whom the other gates of the Imperial Palace had been dedicated: St. Theodore (The Western Gate), St Apollinaris (The Eastern Gate) and St. Julian (The Southern Gate). St. Martin (patron saint of soldiers), like St. Theodore was worshipped in the later Roman period, particularly in the West, during the rule of the Emperor Justinian (527-565).\n\nChurch central area divided into two parts altar screen, made of marble and covered in vines, grape vines and griffon; on the space with an altar that was intended for the clergy and boat that was intended for laymen. On the altar wall of the altar, the only preserved in situ in Dalmatia, there is an inscription with the dedication of the Virgin Mary, St. Gregory the Pope and Blessed Martin:\n\"This church is under the patronage of Blessed Martha, the Virgin Mary and the Holy Gregorian Pope.\"\nThe pre-Romanesque stage, probably built in the 9th century, belongs to the barrel vault, an altar in the apse with a carved cross of early Christian denominations and a small trance, set in the middle of large, buried antique openings on the southern wall. The later pre-Romanesque stage of the 11th century belongs to the altarpiece and the bell tower, which was later destroyed.\n\n"}
{"id": "29199613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29199613", "title": "Steiner Schools Australia", "text": "Steiner Schools Australia\n\nSteiner Schools Australia refers to the fifty-two Steiner or Waldorf educational institutions, thirty-six of which are governed by Steiner Education Australia (SEA) and are located in each the States and Territories of Australia. As with all Steiner schools, teachers are given a large degree of flexibility in developing the curricula within the collegial structures.\n\nThe Rudolf Steiner Schools of Australia (RSSA) is the governing body of the Steiner model education institutions within Australia, it represents thirty six of the Steiner schools as well as the four state sponsored schools operating under the Steiner model. The Mission Statement of the RSSA is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50766474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50766474", "title": "Synty", "text": "Synty\n\nSynty ('origin, birth, aetiology', pl. \"synnyt\") is an important concept in Finnish mythology. \"Syntysanat\" ('origin-words') or \"syntyloitsut\" ('origin-charms') provide an explanatory, mythical account of the origin of a phenomenon (such as an illness), material (such as iron), or species (such as a bear), and was an important part of traditional Finno-Karelian culture, particularly in healing rituals. Although much in the Finnish traditional charms is paralleled elsewhere, 'the role of aetiological and cosmogonic myths' in Finnic tradition 'appears exceptional in Eurasia'. The major study remains that by Kaarle Krohn, published in 1917.\n\nThe term \"synty\" is used in this article and in a range of scholarship as a genre-label, but it had a wide variety of meanings. \"Synty\" transparently derives from \"syntyä\" (‘come into existence, be born’) and means ‘birth’, ‘origin’, ‘aetiology’, and so forth. Its meanings can be literal and mundane (e.g. 'birth'), but it was also used in traditional poetry with a range of more numinous meanings, varying according to region, genre, and time. Thus in Kalevalaic poetry, \"synty\" can also denote the mystical power of a \"tietäjä\" (in which context it has been argued to refer to the origin of a \"tietäjä\"’s own powers and is more or less a synonym for the more frequent term \"luonto\", perhaps being translated as 'fundamental essence'); it can be a synonym for 'god' or 'creator' (in the singular only, often in the collocation \"suuri synty\", ‘great \"synty\"’); or it can denote other divine power whose source was more abstract.\n\nIn Karelian lament poetry, the plural \"synnyt\" and more especially its diminutive dialect form \"syntyiset\" (usually given in the Karelian form \"syndyzet\") were important terms, found used of divine powers, the abode of the dead, the dead themselves, and even icons. It has been suggested that these usages are a loan-translation from Russian \"rod\" ('family') and \"roditeli\" ('parents'), which are used in similar ways and have an etymological connection with birth.\n\nKnowing \"synnyt\" was a characteristic branch of knowledge for traditional healers, known as \"tietäjät\". It was believed that knowing the origin of things made it possible to exercise control over them. Healing spells might, for example, include words like \"Kyllä tunnen syntymäsi\" ('indeed I know your origin').\n\nIt was long thought that \"synnyt\" were primarily recited as prefaces to charms much like a historiola, to make the charm itself more effective, perhaps as part of a process of diagnosis. More recent work, however, has suggested that, though often combined with other incantations, the \"synty\" element is in these cases usually central rather than preliminary, and not so much a diagnosis as a cure; their primary context of use seems instead to have been healing physical (as opposed to metaphysical) injuries and wounds where there was no illness agent (such as a witch) to conjure. \"Synnyt\" might also be used in, for example, hunting rituals.\n\nThere is some debate over in what contexts \"synnyt\" were recited and in what contexts they were sung (and whether it is meaningful to distinguish between these modes). It appears that \"synnyt\" were recited in Western Finland by the eighteenth century but might still have been sung in the seventeenth. There is some evidence for \"synnyt\" or similar genres being performed by pairs of singers in the manner of epic poems, but not much. The poems themselves, however, give singing a prominent role. The tradition of performing \"synnyt\" has been compared with the North Germanic tradition of \"galdr\", where a clear distinction between singing and speaking may not be appropriate.\n\nThe \"synnyt\" mostly survive in nineteenth-century folklore collections. However, the earliest are attested in documents of the 1650s: the minutes of the parliament of Vaasa for 26 August 1657 record aetiological poems for iron and fire. On 30 June 1658, court records for Vaasa record an aetiological poem for a magical shot (\"pistos\") and on 5 July the same year in Isokyrö for cancer, iron, and fire.\n\nThe earliest scholarly discussion of \"synnyt\" is in the fourth fascicule (published in 1778) of Henrik Gabriel Porthan's \"De poësi Fennica\".\n\n\"Synty\" next makes a significant appearance as a genre term in Christianus Erici Lencqvist’s dissertation \"De superstitione veterum Fennorum theoretica et practica\", published in 1782. Discussing the mythical figure Kaleva, Lencqvist mentioned Kaleva's sword, and noted that one mention of that appears ‘in his versibus ... quibus ortus serpentis mythice exponitur (Kärmen syndy)’ ('in these verses ... in which the origin of the serpent is mythically expounded (\"Kärmen synty\")'), quoting the following lines with his Latin translation:\nSoon after, Cristfried Ganander included an entry for \"synnyt\" in his \"Mythologia fennica\", defining them thus: ‘Synnyt, Archæologier öfver elden, ormen, sten, alla trän; läses öfver skador och sår af vidskeplige' (‘\"Synnyt\": ancient histories of fire, the snake, stone, all trees; spoken over injuries and wounds by the superstitious').\n\nThe most widely attested subject for \"synnyt\", according to the \"Suomen kansan vanhat runot\", is the origin of iron. One example of such a \"synty\", as edited by Lönnrot and translated by Abercromby, is:\n\nThe \"Suomen kansan vanhat runot\" editions list round 131 topics for \"synty\" texts, 114 of them categorised as \"syntyloitsut\" (\"'synty\"-charms'):\n\nA famous literary adaptation of this tradition appears in Runo IX of the \"Kalevala\", with Väinämöinen learning and reciting the origins of iron (\"raudan synty\") to heal his wounded knee (which itself influenced oral tradition in turn), and in Runo 26, where Lemminkäinen expounds the origins of the serpent (\"kärmen synty\").\n\nThe first substantial, scholarly collection of \"synty\" poems was \"Suomen kansan muinaisia loitsurunoja\", ed. by Elias Lönnrot (Helsinki: Suomen Kirjallisuuden Seura, 1880), http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/48751. A very large part of this was translated into English by John Abercromby, \"The pre- and proto-historic Finns, both Eastern and Western: with the magic songs of the west Finns\", Grimm Library, 9-10, 2 vols (London: Nutt, 1898), vol. 1, vol. 1, vol. 2, vol. 2. Further texts were published in the \"Suomen kansan vanhat runot\" series.\n"}
{"id": "913040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=913040", "title": "Sögubrot af nokkrum fornkonungum", "text": "Sögubrot af nokkrum fornkonungum\n\nSögubrot af nokkrum fornkonungum (Fragment of a Saga about Certain Ancient Kings) is a fragmentary Icelandic text dealing with some legendary Swedish and Danish kings. It is thought to be based on the lost \"Skjöldunga saga\" and perhaps represents a late state of that work.\n\nThe fragment begins in the middle of the story of Ívarr inn víðfaðmi, '\"Ivar the Widely Embracing\", describing how he won the realm of Zealand through trickery, and how he committed suicide under strange circumstances while on an invasion of the realm of Ráðbarðr, who had married his daughter Auðr the Deep-Minded without his permission. The fragment then recounts the early life of Harald Wartooth but breaks off; it resumes with the arrival of Sigurd Hring, Harald's old age, and the colossal Battle of Brávellir. It breaks off again towards the end of Sigurd's life.\n\n"}
{"id": "43451198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43451198", "title": "The Beano timeline", "text": "The Beano timeline\n\nThis is a timeline of events concerning the long-running D. C. Thomson & Co. comic \"The Beano\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40115848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40115848", "title": "The Last Judgement (Martin paintings)", "text": "The Last Judgement (Martin paintings)\n\nThe Last Judgement is a triptych of oil paintings by the British artist John Martin, created in 1851–1854. The work comprises three separate paintings on a theme of the end of the world, inspired by the Book of Revelation. The paintings are generally considered to be among Martin's most important works, and have been described by some art critics as his masterpiece.\n\nThe paintings were Martin's last major works before his death in 1854. They were exhibited to the public from the time of his death until the 1870s to advertise the sale of prints from engravings of the works, being displayed in galleries and exhibition halls all over the UK, in New York in 1856–7 and in Australia in 1878–79. It has been claimed that up to eight million people viewed the paintings during their extensive tours.\n\nMartin's style of didactic expository art was rarely praised by art critics but remained popular with the public until the 1860s. He fell out of style by the end of the 19th century, and his works were pigeonholed as Victorian and religious by the early 20th century.\n\nCritical opinion of Martin's work improved from the 1940s, and the Tate Gallery bought \"The Great Day of His Wrath\" in 1945. The triptych was reassembled at the Tate Gallery in 1974 after Charlotte Frank donated the two other works following the death of her husband, Robert Frank. The paintings were the cornerstone of the first substantial exhibition of Martin's works at the Tate Britain in 2011–12, with a theatrical son et lumière show dramatising the manner of their exhibition in Victorian Britain.\n\nThe first element of the triptych, \"The Last Judgement\", is the central piece, intended to be displayed between the peaceful landscape of \"The Plains of Heaven\" to the left and the turbulent scene in \"The Great Day of His Wrath\" to the right. It combines elements of both, with a crowd of \"saved\" people to the left, and of the \"damned\" to the right, with the heavenly host above. A drawing in pencil and ink, signed and dated 1845, shows that this work was planned before Martin decided to paint a triptych, and Martin had started work on the painting by the end of 1849. Painted in oil on canvas, it measures by . \n\nThe work reflects the text of the Book of Revelation, which states that the Book of Judgement is sealed with seven seals, and describes the events that take places as each seal is broken. The breaking of the sixth seal triggers \"the great day of his wrath\" depicted in the second painting, followed by the last judgement after the seventh seal is broken.\n\nAccording to chapter 4 of the Book of Revelation, \"a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne ... and round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment: and they had on their heads crowns of gold\"; in chapter 8, \"four of the seven angels who have sounded their trumpets after the opening of the seventh seal\", and \"an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe ... to the inhabitors of the earth.\"; in chapter 9, a star falls from heaven and creates a bottomless pit: \"and there arose a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace\". The armies of Gog and Magog, \"the number of whom is as the sand of the sea\" are mentioned in chapter 20, and paradise is referred to in chapter 21: \"I saw a new heaven and a new earth ... the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband\".\n\nIn the background of the painting is the Celestial City, Jerusalem, drawing elements from Martin's earlier historical and architectural paintings, with the Plains of Heaven behind. The light of God pervades the work, with Christ sitting in judgement on the Throne of God in the centre, accompanied by 24 seated elders. Four angels sound trumpets after the opening of the seventh seal.\n\nBelow, a yawning chasm divides mankind into two parts: the \"saved\" are assembled on Mount Zion at God's right hand (that is, on the viewer's left) and the damned are gathered on the right. The virtuous men, women and children of the saved include portraits of around 40 famous people, many of which are painted on slips of paper that were pasted onto the canvas like a collage, awaiting their turn to appear before the throne. An engraved key was published in 1855 identifying the principal figures among the saved, including many artists, writers and scientists such as Thomas More, Wesley, Canute, Colbert, Washington, Chaucer, Tasso, Corneille, Shakespeare, Copernicus, Newton, and Watt.\n\nThe damned include richly dressed women, notably Salome daughter of Herodias, and the whore of Babylon, and also lawyers and clergymen, including a bishop and a pope. A railway train with carriages labelled \"London\" and \"Paris\" tumbles into the bottomless pit. The forces of Satan are being defeated, with the armies of Gog and Magog also falling into the abyss. \n\nThe painting shows the time when \"Heaven and Earth are passing away, and all things are made new.\" According to Mary L. Pendered's 1923 book \"John Martin, Painter: His Life and Times\", Martin originally intended to call the painting \"All Things Made New\".\n\nThe painting was retained by Martin's family after his death until it was sold in 1935. It was acquired by Robert Frank in 1947, inherited by his wife Charlotte Frank in 1953, and left to the Tate Gallery in memory of her husband in 1974.\n\nThe second work in the triptych, \"The Great Day of His Wrath\", was intended to be hung to the right of \"The Last Judgement\", and continues the theme of destruction and damnation depicted on the right side of the central image.\n\nThe Book of Revelation describes a scene that is painted by Martin: \"... and, lo, there was a great earthquake and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair and the moon became as blood. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.\" The collapsing pile of rocks to the right of the painting are the buildings of an entire city falling into an abyss.\n\nThe oil on canvas work measures by . It was bought by the Tate Gallery in 1945.\n\nThe third work in the triptych, \"The Plains of Heaven\" was intended to be hung to the left of \"The Last Judgement\", and continues the pastoral landscape occupied by the \"saved\" on the left side of the central image.\n\nThe landscape resembles the Italian views painted by J. M. W. Turner, with serene open vistas of greenery. Martin painted similar landscapes in watercolours around 1850; examples include \"The Traveller\" and \"Joshua spying out the Land of Canaan\". The scene resembles Martin's 1841 painting of \"The Celestial City and River of Bliss\".\n\nThe oil on canvas work measures by . Along with \"The Last Judgement\", the painting was left to the Tate on the death of Charlotte Frank in 1974, in memory of her husband Robert Frank.\n\nMartin signed an agreement with the publisher and printseller Thomas Maclean in June 1851, under which Martin's painting \"The Great Day of His Wrath\" would be engraved and the painting would be exhibited to publicise subscriptions for the print. Maclean was to retain two thirds of the net profits from the print, with Martin receiving one third. The painting was sent to the engraver, Charles Mottram, by the end of 1851. Martin probably started work on the second and third paintings before the end of 1851, and a second agreement for their engraving was signed on 23 June 1852.\n\nMartin suffered a stroke in November 1853, and died on 17 February 1854. Seven days earlier, the pictures were first exhibited together in Newcastle upon Tyne, where they were shown at the Victoria Rooms in Grey Street from 10 February to 4 March 1854 (\"The Last Judgement\" had been put on display on its own at Maclean's gallery in London in June 1853). The paintings were accompanied by an explanatory pamphlet, a technique that Martin has used with his earlier Biblical pictures. The paintings went on an extensive tour of provincial cities, including Glasgow, Edinburgh, York, Hull, Leeds, Oxford, Birmingham, Liverpool, Huddersfield, Sheffield, Leicester, Bristol and Chester. There was initially some suggestion that the paintings were unfinished, but they were signed by Martin and he had consented to the tour, although Maclean had considerable rights over them under his agreement with Martin. The painting were exhibited in London in May 1855, at the Hall of Commerce at 52 Threadneedle Street.\n\n\"The Morning Post\" of 3 May 1855 greatly admired them: 'the simple grandeur of the conception, the broad artistic arrangement, and the wonderfully inventive faculty in detail. ..will serve to place the fame of Martin in a much higher position than any of his former labours'.\n\nThe paintings visited Dublin in March 1856, and the United States in 1857. The Mottram mezzotint engravings were finally published in 1857, in New York and London. The paintings were back in London in 1860, at Mabley's in the Strand. Tours of Britain continued for more than a decade, with the last recorded exhibition in Hexham in 1872. They were exhibited in Australia in 1878-9, where they were shown in at a gallery in Melbourne and were included unofficially in the British Court at the Sydney International Exhibition. Sydney International Exhibition (1879)\n\nIt has been claimed that up to eight million people viewed the paintings during the extensive tours.\n\nThe ownership of the paintings after Martin's death remains unclear. They are not mentioned in his will, and the agreement with Maclean (which gave Mclean two thirds of the profits from the sale of prints, and the right to use the paintings to market the prints) meant that they were on tour for decades. It seems likely that they were bequeathed to a cousin, Maria Thompson, who had married the son of the Thomas Wilson, his host during his regular visits to the Isle of Man and who nursed him in his final illness. There was also a family connection - the Thomas Wilson was married to the sister of Martin's wife.\n\nThe works remained in the extended Wilson-Martin family - in the possession of the artist's son Charles by about 1872 - and his son Thomas Carew Hunt Martin lent the paintings for an exhibition at Earls Court in 1897. They were repeatedly put up for sale by auction but there were no buyers. By the 1890s, they were displayed \"in a dingy room\" at Alexandra Palace, and then on the staircase at the Dore Gallery from around 1900 to the 1920s. By 1923, they had been taken out of their frames and were rolled up and stored in a warehouse. They were sold at auction in 1935 for £7 by Rex Nan Kivell, manager of the Redfern Gallery. The Tate bought \"The Great Day of his Wrath\" from Kivnell in 1945. After the sale, \"The Last Judgement\" was cut into four strips to decorate a screen. It was acquired by Robert Frank in 1947 and restored. Frank also acquired \"The Plains of Heaven\". The triptych was reassembled at the Tate Gallery in 1974 after Charlotte Frank donated the two other works following the death of her husband, Robert Frank.\n"}
{"id": "1214879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1214879", "title": "Visual anthropology", "text": "Visual anthropology\n\nVisual anthropology is a subfield of social anthropology that is concerned, in part, with the study and production of ethnographic photography, film and, since the mid-1990s, new media. More recently it has been used by historians of science and visual culture. Although sometimes wrongly conflated with ethnographic film, Visual Anthropology encompasses much more, including the anthropological study of all visual representations such as dance and other kinds of performance, museums and archiving, all visual arts, and the production and reception of mass media. Histories and analyses of representations from many cultures are part of Visual Anthropology: research topics include sandpaintings, tattoos, sculptures and reliefs, cave paintings, scrimshaw, jewelry, hieroglyphics, paintings and photographs. Also within the province of the subfield are studies of human vision, properties of media, the relationship of visual form and function, and applied, collaborative uses of visual representations. Multimodal anthropology describes the latest turn in the subfield, which considers how emerging technologies like immersive virtual reality, augmented reality, mobile apps, social networking, gaming along with film, photography and art is reshaping anthropological research, practice and teaching. \n\nEven before the emergence of anthropology as an academic discipline in the 1880s, ethnologists used photography as a tool of research. Anthropologists and non-anthropologists conducted much of this work in the spirit of salvage ethnography or attempts to record for posterity the ways-of-life of societies assumed doomed to extinction (see, for instance, the Native American photography of Edward Curtis)\n\nThe history of anthropological filmmaking is intertwined with that of non-fiction and documentary filmmaking, although ethnofiction may be considered as a genuine subgenre of ethnographic film. Some of the first motion pictures of the ethnographic other were made with Lumière equipment (\"Promenades des Éléphants à Phnom Penh\", 1901). Robert Flaherty, probably best known for his films chronicling the lives of Arctic peoples (\"Nanook of the North\", 1922), became a filmmaker in 1913 when his supervisor suggested that he take a camera and equipment with him on an expedition north. Flaherty focused on \"traditional\" Inuit ways of life, omitting with few exceptions signs of modernity among his film subjects (even to the point of refusing to use a rifle to help kill a walrus his informants had harpooned as he filmed them, according to Barnouw; this scene made it into \"Nanook\" where it served as evidence of their \"pristine\" culture). This pattern would persist in many ethnographic films to follow (see as an example Robert Gardner's \"Dead Birds\").\nBy the 1940s and early 1950s, anthropologists such as Hortense Powdermaker, Gregory Bateson, Margaret Mead (\"Trance and Dance in Bali\", 1952) and Mead and Rhoda Metraux, eds., (\"The Study of Culture at a Distance\", 1953) were bringing anthropological perspectives to bear on mass media and visual representation. Karl G. Heider notes in his revised edition of \"Ethnographic Film\" (2006) that after Bateson and Mead, the history of visual anthropology is defined by \"the seminal works of four men who were active for most of the second half of the twentieth century: Jean Rouch, John Marshall, Robert Gardner, and Tim Asch. By focusing on these four, we can see the shape of ethnographic film\" (p. 15). Many, including Peter Loizos, would add the name of filmmaker/author David MacDougall to this select group.\n\nIn 1966, filmmaker Sol Worth and anthropologist John Adair taught a group of Navajo Indians in Arizona how to capture 16mm film. The hypothesis was that artistic choices made by the Navajo would reflect the 'perceptual structure' of the Navajo world. The goals of this experiment were primarily ethnographic and theoretical. Decades later, however, the work has inspired a variety of participatory and applied anthropological initiatives - ranging from photovoice to virtual museum collections - in which cameras are given to local collaborators as a strategy for empowerment.\n\nIn the United States, Visual Anthropology first found purchase in an academic setting in 1958 with the creation of the Film Study Center at Harvard's Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology. In the United Kingdom, The Granada Centre for Visual Anthropology at the University of Manchester was established in 1987 to offer training in anthropology and film-making to MA, MPhil and PhD students and whose graduates have produced over 300 films to date. John Collier, Jr. wrote the first standard textbook in the field in 1967, and many visual anthropologists of the 1970s relied on semiologists like Roland Barthes for essential critical perspectives. Contributions to the history of Visual Anthropology include those of Emilie de Brigard (1967), Fadwa el Guindi (2004), and Beate Engelbrecht, ed. (2007). A more recent history that understands visual anthropology in a broader sense, edited by Marcus Banks and Jay Ruby, is \"Made To Be Seen: Historical Perspectives on Visual Anthropology\". Turning the anthropological lens on India provides a counterhistory of visual anthropology (Khanduri 2014).\n\nAt present, the Society for Visual Anthropology (SVA) represents the subfield in the United States as a section of the American Anthropological Association, the AAA.\n\nIn the United States, ethnographic films are shown each year at the Margaret Mead Film Festival as well as at the AAA's annual Film and Media Festival. In Europe, ethnographic films are shown at the Royal Anthropological Institute Film Festival in the UK, The Jean Rouch Film Festival in France and Ethnocineca in Austria. Dozens of other international festivals are listed regularly in the \"Newsletter of the Nordic Anthropological Film Association [NAFA]\".\n\nWhile art historians are clearly interested in some of the same objects and processes, visual anthropology places these artifacts within a holistic cultural context. Archaeologists, in particular, use phases of visual development to try to understand the spread of humans and their cultures across contiguous landscapes as well as over larger areas. By 10,000 BP, a system of well-developed pictographs was in use by boating peoples and was likely instrumental in the development of navigation and writing, as well as a medium of story telling and artistic representation. Early visual representations often show the female form, with clothing appearing on the female body around 28,000 BP, which archaeologists know now corresponds with the invention of weaving in Old Europe. This is an example of the holistic nature of visual anthropology: a figurine depicting a woman wearing diaphanous clothing is not merely an object of art, but a window into the customs of dress at the time, household organization (where they are found), transfer of materials (where the clay came from) and processes (when did firing clay become common), when did weaving begin, what kind of weaving is depicted and what other evidence is there for weaving, and what kinds of cultural changes were occurring in other parts of human life at the time.\n\nVisual anthropology, by focusing on its own efforts to make and understand film, is able to establish many principles and build theories about human visual representation in general.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
