{"id": "4037190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4037190", "title": "AEDIPS", "text": "AEDIPS\n\nAEDIPS, the Association of Educational Development and Improvement Professionals in Scotland is an association that supports the development of education in Scotland, with a particular focus on entitlement and quality.\n\nFormerly known as the AEAS (the Association of Educational Advisers in Scotland), AEDIPS updated its constitution and its name in 2005 to reflect the changing roles of professionals working in the areas of quality improvement, curriculum, and professional development in Scottish education today.\n\nAEDIPS acts as a forum for the approximate five hundred educational professionals now supporting schools in all sectors of education in the areas of improvement, curriculum, and professional development in local authorities in Scotland.\n\nMembership of AEDIPS is open to permanent staff, secondees, consultants, and former improvement and development professionals who may have moved on from local authority work but wish to keep up with educational developments in Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "41091186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41091186", "title": "Act to Restrain Abuses of Players", "text": "Act to Restrain Abuses of Players\n\nThe Act to Restrain Abuses of Players (1606) was a censorship law passed by the English Parliament, and introduced fines for plays which 'jestingly or profanely' used the names of God or Jesus. Plays written after 1606 avoided such terms as a consequence of the act, and new editions of older plays removed profane words. Some scholars have argued that the Act had an important influence on the revision and publication of the plays of William Shakespeare.\n\nThis Act is listed as \"Anno 3 Jacobi I Cap 21\".\n\nAn Act to restrain Abuses of Players<br>\nFor the preventing and avoiding of the great Abuse of the Holy Name of God in Stage Plays, Enterludes, May Games, Shews and such like; Be it enacted by our Sovereign Lord the King's Majesty, and by the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and the Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the Authority of the same, That if at any time or times after the End of this present Session of Parliament, any Person or Persons do or shall in any Stage-play, Enterlude, Show, May-game or Pageant, jestingly or profanely speak or use the holy Name of God, or of Christ Jesus, or the Holy Ghost, or of the Trinity, which are not to be spoken but with Fear and Reverence, shall forfeit for every such Offence by him or them committed Ten Pounds; the One Moiety thereof to the King's Majesty, his Heirs and Successors, the other Moiety thereof to him or them that will sue for the same in any Court of Record at \"Westminster\", wherein no Essoin, Protection or Wager of Law shall be allowed.\n\nMany scholars and editors have argued that the act had a significant impact on English early modern drama. The need to comply with the act has been used to explain differences in editions of plays published before and after 1606, such as \"Othello\" by William Shakespeare and \"Volpone\" by Ben Jonson. However, Barbara Mowat has expressed reservations about the extent of the act's influence. She has highlighted the fact that the act only applied to dramatic \"performances\", and thus changes to printed editions of dramatic works may have stemmed from other influences. These influences may have included changing cultural attitudes towards swearing, alterations made by particular scribes (such as Ralph Crane), and the desire to avoid offending particular individuals, such as Sir Henry Herbert, the Master of the Revels from 1624 to 1642.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101695", "title": "Bicester Village", "text": "Bicester Village\n\nBicester Village is an outlet shopping centre on the outskirts of Bicester, a town in Oxfordshire, England. It is owned by Value Retail plc. The centre opened in 1995.\n\nMost of its stores are in the luxury goods and designer clothing sector. The centre is the second most visited location in the United Kingdom by Chinese tourists, after Buckingham Palace.\n\nOn 17 April 2015 Cherwell District Council approved plans to demolish the nearby Tesco store and to construct a further 28 retail units and an extra 519 parking spaces. A new Park & Ride and major road improvements, funded by the centre's owners, were also announced. It is hoped that this expansion will create around 3,500 new jobs in Bicester Village.\n\nThe new stores opened on 19 October 2017. \nThe centre is served by Bicester Village railway station, which has a regular direct connection to London Marylebone and , provided by Chiltern Railways. This station was formerly known as Bicester Town. This service is planned to be extended to and by 2024.\n\nThe centre is also served by the X5 express coach service between Oxford and Cambridge via Milton Keynes and Bedford.\n\n"}
{"id": "2076364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2076364", "title": "Boom tube", "text": "Boom tube\n\nA boom tube, in DC Comics is a slang expression for a fictional extra-dimensional point-to-point Einstein-Rosen bridge (a form of teleportation) opened by a Mother Box used primarily by residents of New Genesis and Apokolips. The concept was created by Jack Kirby for his Fourth World series of comics.\n\nThe \"science\" of boom tubes has never been explained (as is normal for the New Gods, though Orion, in the first issue of \"New Gods\", says that a tube \"stems from the waves of the mind\") but they allow people to quickly travel interstellar distances, and between dimensions, by creating an apparent tube between two points through which people can travel. When used, a low humming accompanies the formation of the \"tube\" (a tunnel of rippling circles of light) which increases in volume as the tube is maintained and traversed, ultimately culminating in a loud \"booming\" noise when it closes. This \"boom\" has been known to knock bystanders off their feet and shatter glass, and gives the technology its name. The tubes are generated or opened by another device, a Mother Box. Boom tubes are powered by the mysterious X-element, which serves as a matter threshold.\n\nThe initial Kirby comics depict boom tubes as a sort of quasi-technological equivalent of Bifröst, the Rainbow Bridge linking Asgard and Earth; indeed, boom tubes are described as a \"bridge to Earth.\" Subsequent writers have allowed the tubes to be used for point-to-point transport between various locations on New Genesis, Apokolips, Earth, and other planets, thereby making them near-ubiquitous for the travel of the New Gods.\n\n\nIn Brad Meltzer's \"Justice League of America\" #1, a villain named Doctor Impossible uses a \"father box\" to summon \"hush tubes\".\n\n\n\nBoom tubes appear briefly in the video game \"Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe\" as one of many transportation methods used. In the first scene of the DC Universe side of the story, Darkseid attempts to escape defeat in Metropolis via a boom tube. However, Superman blasts him with a heat ray as he enters the boom tube, coinciding with Raiden of the Mortal Kombat multiverse blasting Shao Kahn with a lightning blast as he enters a portal in another plane. The cosmic coincidence of Darkseid and Shao Kahn using similar portal-like apertures simultaneously combined with the also simultaneous energy discharge from the respective protagonists' attacks results in the being Dark Kahn, the main antagonist of the game.\n\nBoom tubes appear in \"Lego DC Super-Villains\". They appear in the hubs when player selects a playable character from the roster.\n"}
{"id": "42238250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42238250", "title": "Breaker of Chains", "text": "Breaker of Chains\n\n\"Breaker of Chains\" is the third episode of the fourth season of HBO's fantasy television series \"Game of Thrones\", and the 33rd overall.\n\nThe episode was written by series co-creators David Benioff and D. B. Weiss, and directed by Alex Graves. It aired on April 20, 2014.\n\nThe episode received critical praise overall, but triggered a public controversy as many interpreted the sexual encounter between Jaime and Cersei Lannister as rape.\n\nThis episode marks the final appearance of Jack Gleeson (Joffrey Baratheon) .\n\nImmediately following Joffrey's murder, Dontos and Sansa flee the feast while Cersei and Tywin order the city gates barred and all ships seized while they search the capital for Sansa. Dontos and Sansa arrive at a ship hiding in fog, where they are greeted by Lord Petyr Baelish. Baelish, who believes that Dontos will eventually reveal the conspiracy, orders his men to kill Dontos. Baelish also reveals that the necklace Dontos gave to Sansa was a fake and part of the ruse.\n\nIn the city gardens, Olenna and Margaery discuss Joffrey's murder, and how, as their marriage was unconsummated, she is not the Queen. In the Sept, Tywin speaks to Tommen about becoming the king and the qualities that a king must possess, then leaves Cersei to grieve for Joffrey alone. Jaime arrives soon after and consoles Cersei. She asks him to kill Tyrion before a trial can take place, adamant that he is responsible. Jaime refuses and rapes Cersei next to Joffrey's corpse.\n\nWhile engaging in an intercourse, Prince Oberyn and Ellaria Sand are interrupted by Tywin, who requests to speak with Oberyn privately. Tywin believes that Oberyn may have had a hand in Joffrey's murder. Oberyn refutes his claims and directly accuses Tywin of ordering Gregor \"The Mountain\" Clegane to rape and murder his sister, Elia years earlier. Tywin denies the accusations, but offers to have the Mountain speak with Oberyn about her murder, in exchange for Oberyn serving as one of the three judges in Tyrion's trial and also as a member of the small council. In his cell, Tyrion is visited by his squire, Podrick. Podrick tells Tyrion he is to be tried in a fortnight and that Sansa has not been seen since the wedding. Before leaving, Podrick tells Tyrion that he was asked to testify against Tyrion in exchange for a knighthood. Tyrion orders him to bring Jaime and then flee the city, as he fears for Podrick's life.\n\nSamwell is teased by Ser Alliser and Janos Slynt, who do not believe he was able to kill a White Walker. Samwell speaks with Gilly about moving her to Mole's Town to keep her safe, as many of the Night's Watch brothers were arrested for rape. Gilly wants to stay at Castle Black, but is taken to Mole's Town where Samwell finds her temporary lodging.\n\nThe wildling party led by Tormund Giantsbane raids a small village, and Styr forces a small boy, Olly, to run to Castle Black to tell the Night's Watch what they have done. At a gathering, Ser Alliser tells the men that their duty is to protect the Wall first, which is echoed by Maester Aemon. When Alliser asks Jon, he reluctantly agrees that they must prioritize the Wall, before he is interrupted by a horn blast indicating returning rangers. Edd Tollett and Grenn arrive and inform them that Karl and his band of mutineers are living in Craster's Keep. Jon remembers his lie to Mance Rayder about having 1,000 men guarding the Wall, ten times their actual number, and says they must ride north and kill the mutineers before Mance finds out the truth about the Night's Watch forces and realizes how badly he has them outnumbered.\n\nStannis has Davos read a letter sent to Dragonstone, informing them that Joffrey is dead. Stannis claims it is the result of leeching Gendry's blood and burning the leeches. He chastises Davos for releasing Gendry, and for not having managed to raise an army for their cause. Davos suggests hiring mercenaries from Essos, but Stannis points out that they have no gold. Davos then visits Shireen, who continues to teach him to read. During the lesson, he suddenly comes up with an idea and has her write a message to the Iron Bank of Braavos in Stannis' name.\n\nThe Hound and Arya continue their journey east toward the Vale of Arryn, before accepting an offer of shelter from a farmer. At dinner, the Hound agrees to work for the farmer in exchange for some silver, but in the morning, he steals the farmer's silver despite Arya's protests.\n\nDaenerys and her army arrive outside Meereen, where they are received by the Champion of Meereen. Ser Jorah informs her that she must send her own champion to battle the one from Meereen. Her advisors argue over the chance to fight for her, but Daario Naharis is selected. Daario easily kills the champion. Daenerys then speaks to the city's slaves, telling them of her victories in Astapor and Yunkai, including freeing those cities' slaves. She then orders her catapults to fire, and they launch barrels filled with broken slave collars into the city as a sign of the freedom she intends to bring them.\n\n\"Breaker of Chains\" was written by executive producers David Benioff and D. B. Weiss, based upon the source material, Martin's \"A Storm of Swords\". The controversial Jaime-Cersei scene was adapted from chapter 62 of \"A Storm of Swords\" (Jaime VII). Other content came from chapters Sansa V, Tyrion IX and Daenerys V.\n\n\"Breaker of Chains\" was watched by an estimated 6.6 million people during the first hour. Another 1.6 million watched it on rerun. In the United Kingdom, the episode was viewed by 1.665 million viewers, making it the highest-rated broadcast that week. It also received 0.099 million timeshift viewers.\n\nThe episode was well received by critics, with a 95% rating from 37 reviews on Rotten Tomatoes. Matt Fowler of IGN wrote that the episode deals \"with the direct aftermath of King Joffrey's violent demise, though it also [feels] like the most bereft of the first three episodes\" and that it \"ended with a big, grandiose Daenerys moment – though if one were to compare her launching canisters filled with broken shackles over the walls of Meereen to last year's flambéing of Astapor and stealing off with an entire army (which came at the end of episode 4), this moment lacked 'oomph.'\"\n\nThe episode attracted controversy for a scene where Jaime Lannister forces himself upon Cersei Lannister in the Great Sept of Baelor. In the episode, Cersei repeatedly tells Jaime \"no\", \"stop\", and \"it's not right\" while attempting to push him away. In the source novel, however, Cersei initially rejects Jaime's advances but changes her mind, saying \"yes\", though some readers interpret it as implying rape.\n\nAlan Sepinwall of HitFix stated that viewers interpreted the scene as a rape: \"Though there aren't comments on these reviews at the moment, the reaction I've seen on Twitter, in emails and on other blogs suggests nobody is agreeing with [director Alex] Graves' interpretation of the scene and are viewing it as rape, plain and simple.\" Sandy Hingston of \"Philadelphia\" wrote that the scene had outraged many viewers, but had led others to make \"tentative attempts in comments sections to explain why maybe actually this wasn't rape.\" Critics, including Erik Kain of \"Forbes\", Sonia Saraiya of \"The A.V. Club\", Megan Gibson of \"Time\", Amanda Marcotte of \"Slate\", and Alyssa Rosenberg of the \"Washington Post\", also viewed the scene as rape.\n\nThe episode's director, Alex Graves, described the scene in an interview with \"The Hollywood Reporter\" as \"and then Jaime comes in and he rapes her\". In another interview with HitFix, Graves said \"it becomes consensual by the end, because anything for [Jaime and Cersei] ultimately results in a turn-on, especially a power struggle.\" In an interview with Vulture, Graves further elaborated: \"The consensual part of it was that she wraps her legs around him, and she's holding on to the table, clearly not to escape but to get some grounding in what's going on. And also, the other thing that I think is clear before they hit the ground is she starts to make out with him. ... before he rips her undergarment, she's way into kissing him back.\" Graves stated that it was important for him and others involved with filming the scene to indicate to viewers that the sexual encounter was not completely one-sided, and that he hoped this aspect would not be overlooked. Noting that during filming, \"nobody really wanted to talk about what was going on between the two characters\", he described the scene as \"one of my favorite scenes I've ever done\".\n\nOthers involved with the series also commented on the scene. David Benioff, who co-wrote the episode and serves as showrunner with D. B. Weiss, described the interaction of the two siblings as \"a really kind of horrifying scene, because you see, obviously, Joffrey's body right there, and you see that Cersei is resisting this. She's saying no, and he's forcing himself on her. So it was a really uncomfortable scene, and a tricky scene to shoot.\" George R.R. Martin, author of the novels from which the series is adapted, stated that the dynamic is different between Jaime and Cersei in the show because, as opposed to the books, \"Jaime has been back for weeks at the least, maybe longer.\" He stated that while the setting is the same, \"neither character is in the same place as in the books\" and that he surmises this \"may be why Dan [Weiss] & David [Benioff] played the sept out differently.\" Martin added that he never discussed the scene with them, and that the scene \"was always intended to be disturbing... but [I] regret if it has disturbed people for the wrong reasons.\" Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, who portrays Jaime, said in an interview that while many saw the scene as a brutal rape, \"that was obviously never intended. I understand that one can see it as that, but for us it was much more complex.\" Lena Headey, who portrays Cersei, declined to comment about whether she interpreted the sex as consensual, but said that \"it's a very complicated moment for many reasons ... There was this need and it wasn't right and yet it felt great and yet it wasn't right and it played out the way it did. And I was really happy with [the scene].\"\n\nTo Saraiya, the series' choice to portray this scene as rape appeared to be an act of \"exploitation for shock value\". Marcotte and Josh Wigler of MTV commented that the rape scene may have damaged Jaime's character's arc of redemption from his earlier crimes, and Marcotte wrote that it might never recover from the rape. Dustin Rowles of \"Salon\" noted that viewers who were previously able to sympathize with Jaime despite his earlier crimes of murder and incest now became angry at the series' creators \"for allowing a terrible person to do something more terrible than our minds will allow us to forgive.\" Andrew Romano of \"The Daily Beast\" opined that the scene \"wasn't supposed to be a rape. It was supposed to look consensual. The filmmakers messed up.\" He cited the fact that \"neither the director of the scene nor the two actors who played it seem to think that Jaime raped Cersei—and the story itself is continuing to chug along as if the rape never happened and Jaime is still a character we're supposed to root for.\" He suggested that viewers \"ignore the rape—at least from a narrative perspective\" because Benioff and Weiss had \"botched\" it. In a broader context, Hingston credited the episode with furthering \"the furious debate over consent going on in our culture\". Laura Hudson of \"Wired\" described the scene and its appraisal by its director as \"one that encourages the most dangerous thinking about rape imaginable: that when a woman is held down on the ground, screaming for the man to stop, that deep down inside her she might still really want it.\" She considered Graves' lack of realization that he was filming a rape scene disturbing because, according to Hudson, his comments encouraged the thinking that a man's persistence might \"'turn' a rape into something consensual\", and that it is a \"dysfunctional, dangerous way of looking at sex and consent, one that is based on the idea of forcing women to give it\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4519044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4519044", "title": "Cantastoria", "text": "Cantastoria\n\n' (; also spelled ' , ' or ') comes from Italian for \"story-singer\" and is known by many other names around the world. It is a theatrical form where a performer tells or sings a story while gesturing to a series of images. These images can be painted, printed or drawn on any sort of material.\n\nIn 6th-century India, religious tales called s were performed by traveling storytellers who carried banners painted with images of gods from house to house. Another form called featured vertical cloth scrolls accompanied by sung stories of the afterlife. Nowadays, this Indian traditional art is still performed by Chitrakar women of West Bengal. In Tibet this was known as and in China this was known as . In Indonesia the scroll was made horizontal and became the ' and employed four performers: a man who sings the story, two men who operate the rolling of the scroll, and a woman who holds a lamp to illuminate particular pictures featured in the story. Other Indonesian theater forms such as ', a shadow play, and \"\", rod puppetry, developed around the same time and are still performed today.\n\nIn Japan, appears as () or () in the form of hanging scrolls divided into separate panels, foreshadowing the immensely popular manga, or Japanese comics. sometimes took the shape of little booklets, or even displays of dolls posed on the roadside with backgrounds behind them. In the 20th century, Japanese candymen would bicycle around with serial shows called () where the story was told to a series of changing pictures that slid in and out of an open-framed box. Some shows had a peep show element to them, where a viewer could pay extra to peer through a hole and see a supposed artifact from the story.\n\nIn 16th-century Italy, prayers would often be sung in the presence of illuminated scrolls while secular society produced the \"\" or \"singing bench\" where a person would stand on a bench point to pictures with a stick.\n\nIn Spain up to the 19th century there were blind men with a young \"helper\" who would make a living by going from town to town where they would display illustrations and the blind man would recite/sing the story, often about truculent crimes, while his helper pointed at the illustration relevant at that point. These were called \"\" (blind man stories).\n\nThe singing bench migrated northward to Central and Northern Europe where it served as sensationalist quasi-news about murder, fires, death, affairs, sex scandals and the like. Performers of such controversial bench songs were seen as vagrants and troublemakers and were often arrested, exiled, or ostracised for their activities.\n\nIn Persia, (compare India's ) banner artists had the foresight to paint a handsome police officer in the corner as a fail-safe against the wrath of police harassment—the narrator would be relating the tale of a hero's exploits and when a cop would appear in the crowd the narrator would point to the cop on the banner and shower the character with flattery in the context of the story.\n\nIn Czechoslovakia banner shows were called \"\". Most of them fell into an oblivion, with the notable exception of a parody song \"Cannoneer\".\n\nIn Hungary the term is \".\n\nIn Germany itinerant balladeers performed ' or ' (bench song) banner shows for four centuries until the Nazis banned the practice in the 1940s. The German \" survives in 's \"The Threepenny Opera\" () and in the performance work of .\n\nIn aboriginal Australia storytellers paint story sequences on tree bark and also on themselves for the purposes of performing the tale.\n\nIn the 19th century, giant scrolling moving panorama performances were performed throughout the United Kingdom and United States. The 20th century has seen cantastoria employed by the radical art, theater and puppetry movements to tell stories from perspectives outside of the mainstream media, especially by the Bread and Puppet Theater. Elements of picture storytelling can also be seen in the portable mural-posters of the Beehive Collective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40940898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40940898", "title": "China Tourism Association", "text": "China Tourism Association\n\nChina Tourism Association is a Chinese industry association affiliated with China National Tourism Administration.\nThe Chinese tourism industry is jointly represented by the China Tourism Association and the National Travel Trade Association.\nIt runs a subordinate educational organisation, the China Tourism Education, associating the tertiary and secondary education providers who offers tourism-related courses in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "1743830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1743830", "title": "Computerized adaptive testing", "text": "Computerized adaptive testing\n\nComputerized adaptive testing (CAT) is a form of computer-based test that adapts to the examinee's ability level. For this reason, it has also been called tailored testing. In other words, it is a form of computer-administered test in which the next item or set of items selected to be administered depends on the correctness of the test taker's responses to the most recent items administered.\n\nCAT successively selects questions for the purpose of maximizing the precision of the exam based on what is known about the examinee from previous questions. From the examinee's perspective, the difficulty of the exam seems to tailor itself to their level of ability. For example, if an examinee performs well on an item of intermediate difficulty, they will then be presented with a more difficult question. Or, if they performed poorly, they would be presented with a simpler question. Compared to static multiple choice tests that nearly everyone has experienced, with a fixed set of items administered to all examinees, computer-adaptive tests require fewer test items to arrive at equally accurate scores. (Of course, there is nothing about the CAT methodology that requires the items to be multiple-choice; but just as most exams are multiple-choice, most CAT exams also use this format.)\n\nThe basic computer-adaptive testing method is an iterative algorithm with the following steps:\n\nNothing is known about the examinee prior to the administration of the first item, so the algorithm is generally started by selecting an item of medium, or medium-easy, difficulty as the first item.\n\nAs a result of adaptive administration, different examinees receive quite different tests. The psychometric technology that allows equitable scores to be computed across different sets of items is item response theory (IRT). IRT is also the preferred methodology for selecting optimal items which are typically selected on the basis of \"information\" rather than difficulty, per se.\n\nIn the United States, the Graduate Management Admission Test are currently primarily administered as a computer-adaptive test. A list of active CAT programs is found at International Association for Computerized Adaptive Testing, along with a list of current CAT research programs and a near-inclusive bibliography of all published CAT research.\n\nA related methodology called multistage testing (MST) or CAST is used in the Uniform Certified Public Accountant Examination. MST avoids or reduces some of the disadvantages of CAT as described below. See the 2006 special issue of Applied Measurement in Education for more information on MST.\n\nAdaptive tests can provide uniformly precise scores for most test-takers. In contrast, standard fixed tests almost always provide the best precision for test-takers of medium ability and increasingly poorer precision for test-takers with more extreme test scores.\n\nAn adaptive test can typically be shortened by 50% and still maintain a higher level of precision than a fixed version. This translates into a time savings for the test-taker. Test-takers do not waste their time attempting items that are too hard or trivially easy. Additionally, the testing organization benefits from the time savings; the cost of examinee seat time is substantially reduced. However, because the development of a CAT involves much more expense than a standard fixed-form test, a large population is necessary for a CAT testing program to be financially fruitful.\n\nLarge target populations can generally be exhibited in scientific and research-based fields. CAT testing in these aspects may be used to catch early onset of disabilities or diseases. The growth of CAT testing in these fields has increased greatly in the past 10 years. Once not accepted in medical facilities and laboratories, CAT testing is now encouraged in the scope of diagnostics.\n\nLike any computer-based test, adaptive tests may show results immediately after testing.\n\nAdaptive testing, depending on the item selection algorithm, may reduce exposure of some items because examinees typically receive different sets of items rather than the whole population being administered a single set. However, it may increase the exposure of others (namely the medium or medium/easy items presented to most examinees at the beginning of the test).\n\nThe first issue encountered in CAT is the calibration of the item pool. In order to model the characteristics of the items (e.g., to pick the optimal item), all the items of the test must be pre-administered to a sizable sample and then analyzed. To achieve this, new items must be mixed into the operational items of an exam (the responses are recorded but do not contribute to the test-takers' scores), called \"pilot testing\", \"pre-testing\", or \"seeding\". This presents logistical, ethical, and security issues. For example, it is impossible to field an operational adaptive test with brand-new, unseen items; all items must be pretested with a large enough sample to obtain stable item statistics. This sample may be required to be as large as 1,000 examinees. Each program must decide what percentage of the test can reasonably be composed of unscored pilot test items.\n\nAlthough adaptive tests have \"exposure control\" algorithms to prevent overuse of a few items, the exposure conditioned upon ability is often not controlled and can easily become close to 1. That is, it is common for some items to become very common on tests for people of the same ability. This is a serious security concern because groups sharing items may well have a similar functional ability level. In fact, a completely randomized exam is the most secure (but also least efficient).\n\nReview of past items is generally disallowed. Adaptive tests tend to administer easier items after a person answers incorrectly. Supposedly, an astute test-taker could use such clues to detect incorrect answers and correct them. Or, test-takers could be coached to deliberately pick wrong answers, leading to an increasingly easier test. After tricking the adaptive test into building a maximally easy exam, they could then review the items and answer them correctly—possibly achieving a very high score. Test-takers frequently complain about the inability to review.\n\nBecause of the sophistication, the development of a CAT has a number of prerequisites. The large sample sizes (typically hundreds of examinees) required by IRT calibrations must be present. Items must be scorable in real time if a new item is to be selected instantaneously. Psychometricians experienced with IRT calibrations and CAT simulation research are necessary to provide validity documentation. Finally, a software system capable of true IRT-based CAT must be available.\n\nIn a CAT with a time limit it is impossible for the examinee to accurately budget the time they can spend on each test item and to determine if they are on pace to complete a timed test section. Test takers may thus be penalized for spending too much time on a difficult question which is presented early in a section and then failing to complete enough questions to accurately gauge their proficiency in areas which are left untested when time expires. While untimed CATs are excellent tools for formative assessments which guide subsequent instruction, they are unsuitable for summative assessments used to measure aptitude for jobs and educational programs.\n\nThere are five technical components in building a CAT (the following is adapted from Weiss & Kingsbury, 1984 ). This list does not include practical issues, such as item pretesting or live field release.\n\n\nA pool of items must be available for the CAT to choose from. Such items can be created in the traditional way (i.e., manually) or through Automatic Item Generation. The pool must be calibrated with a psychometric model, which is used as a basis for the remaining four components. Typically, item response theory is employed as the psychometric model. One reason item response theory is popular is because it places persons and items on the same metric (denoted by the Greek letter theta), which is helpful for issues in item selection (see below).\n\nIn CAT, items are selected based on the examinee's performance up to a given point in the test. However, the CAT is obviously not able to make any specific estimate of examinee ability when no items have been administered. So some other initial estimate of examinee ability is necessary. If some previous information regarding the examinee is known, it can be used, but often the CAT just assumes that the examinee is of average ability - hence the first item often being of medium difficulty.\n\nAs mentioned previously, item response theory places examinees and items on the same metric. Therefore, if the CAT has an estimate of examinee ability, it is able to select an item that is most appropriate for that estimate. Technically, this is done by selecting the item with the greatest \"information\" at that point. Information is a function of the discrimination parameter of the item, as well as the conditional variance and pseudoguessing parameter (if used).\n\nAfter an item is administered, the CAT updates its estimate of the examinee's ability level. If the examinee answered the item correctly, the CAT will likely estimate their ability to be somewhat higher, and vice versa. This is done by using the item response function from item response theory to obtain a likelihood function of the examinee's ability. Two methods for this are called \"maximum likelihood estimation\" and \"Bayesian estimation\". The latter assumes an \"a priori\" distribution of examinee ability, and has two commonly used estimators: \"expectation a posteriori\" and \"maximum a posteriori\". Maximum likelihood is equivalent to a Bayes maximum a posteriori estimate if a uniform (f(x)=1) prior is assumed. Maximum likelihood is asymptotically unbiased, but cannot provide a theta estimate for a nonmixed (all correct or incorrect) response vector, in which case a Bayesian method may have to be used temporarily.\n\nThe CAT algorithm is designed to repeatedly administer items and update the estimate of examinee ability. This will continue until the item pool is exhausted unless a termination criterion is incorporated into the CAT. Often, the test is terminated when the examinee's standard error of measurement falls below a certain user-specified value, hence the statement above that an advantage is that examinee scores will be uniformly precise or \"equiprecise.\" Other termination criteria exist for different purposes of the test, such as if the test is designed only to determine if the examinee should \"Pass\" or \"Fail\" the test, rather than obtaining a precise estimate of their ability.\n\nIn many situations, the purpose of the test is to classify examinees into two or more mutually exclusive and exhaustive categories. This includes the common \"mastery test\" where the two classifications are \"pass\" and \"fail,\" but also includes situations where there are three or more classifications, such as \"Insufficient,\" \"Basic,\" and \"Advanced\" levels of knowledge or competency. The kind of \"item-level adaptive\" CAT described in this article is most appropriate for tests that are not \"pass/fail\" or for pass/fail tests where providing good feedback is extremely important. Some modifications are necessary for a pass/fail CAT, also known as a computerized classification test (CCT). For examinees with true scores very close to the passing score, computerized classification tests will result in long tests while those with true scores far above or below the passing score will have shortest exams.\n\nFor example, a new termination criterion and scoring algorithm must be applied that classifies the examinee into a category rather than providing a point estimate of ability. There are two primary methodologies available for this. The more prominent of the two is the sequential probability ratio test (SPRT). This formulates the examinee classification problem as a hypothesis test that the examinee's ability is equal to either some specified point above the cutscore or another specified point below the cutscore. Note that this is a point hypothesis formulation rather than a composite hypothesis formulation that is more conceptually appropriate. A composite hypothesis formulation would be that the examinee's ability is in the region above the cutscore or the region below the cutscore.\n\nA confidence interval approach is also used, where after each item is administered, the algorithm determines the probability that the examinee's true-score is above or below the passing score. For example, the algorithm may continue until the 95% confidence interval for the true score no longer contains the passing score. At that point, no further items are needed because the pass-fail decision is already 95% accurate, assuming that the psychometric models underlying the adaptive testing fit the examinee and test. This approach was originally called \"adaptive mastery testing\" but it can be applied to non-adaptive item selection and classification situations of two or more cutscores (the typical mastery test has a single cutscore).\n\nAs a practical matter, the algorithm is generally programmed to have a minimum and a maximum test length (or a minimum and maximum administration time). Otherwise, it would be possible for an examinee with ability very close to the cutscore to be administered every item in the bank without the algorithm making a decision.\n\nThe item selection algorithm utilized depends on the termination criterion. Maximizing information at the cutscore is more appropriate for the SPRT because it maximizes the difference in the probabilities used in the likelihood ratio. Maximizing information at the ability estimate is more appropriate for the confidence interval approach because it minimizes the conditional standard error of measurement, which decreases the width of the confidence interval needed to make a classification.\n\nETS researcher Martha Stocking has quipped that most adaptive tests are actually \"barely adaptive tests\" (BATs) because, in practice, many constraints are imposed upon item choice. For example, CAT exams must usually meet content specifications; a verbal exam may need to be composed of equal numbers of analogies, fill-in-the-blank and synonym item types. CATs typically have some form of item exposure constraints, to prevent the most informative items from being over-exposed. Also, on some tests, an attempt is made to balance surface characteristics of the items such as gender of the people in the items or the ethnicities implied by their names. Thus CAT exams are frequently constrained in which items it may choose and for some exams the constraints may be substantial and require complex search strategies (e.g., linear programming) to find suitable items.\n\nA simple method for controlling item exposure is the \"randomesque\" or strata method. Rather than selecting the most informative item at each point in the test, the algorithm randomly selects the next item from the next five or ten most informative items. This can be used throughout the test, or only at the beginning. Another method is the Sympson-Hetter method, in which a random number is drawn from U(0,1), and compared to a \"k\" parameter determined for each item by the test user. If the random number is greater than \"k\", the next most informative item is considered.\n\nWim van der Linden and colleagues have advanced an alternative approach called \"shadow testing\" which involves creating entire \"shadow tests\" as part of selecting items. Selecting items from shadow tests helps adaptive tests meet selection criteria by focusing on globally optimal choices (as opposed to choices that are optimal \"for a given item\").\n\nGiven a set of items, a multidimensional computer adaptive test (MCAT) selects those items from the bank according to the estimated abilities of the student, resulting in an individualized test. MCATs seek to maximize the test's accuracy, based on multiple simultaneous examination abilities (unlike a computer adaptive test – CAT – which evaluates a single ability) using the sequence of items previously answered (Piton-Gonçalves and Aluisio, 2012).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3103477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3103477", "title": "Culturally relevant teaching", "text": "Culturally relevant teaching\n\nCulturally relevant or responsive teaching is a pedagogy grounded in teachers' displaying cultural competence: skill at teaching in a cross-cultural or multicultural setting. They enable each student to relate course content to his or her cultural context.\n\nWhile the term often deals specifically with instruction of African American students in the United States, it has been proven to be an effective form of pedagogy for students of all racial and ethnic backgrounds. For instance, in Canada, research reflects the need to bridge the gap between traditional Aboriginal education and Western education systems by including spirituality in Aboriginal educational practices. By making education culturally relevant, it is thought to improve academic achievement. Although the majority of this practice is undertaken in a primary or secondary school setting, Baumgartner and Johnson-Bailey (2008), have experienced the implementation and discussions of culturally relevant teaching within a higher education environment.\n\nCulturally relevant teaching was made popular by Dr. Gloria Ladson-Billings in the early 1990s, the term she created was defined as one \"that empowers students to maintain cultural integrity, while succeeding academically.\" Culturally relevant pedagogy can also be found in the literature as “culturally appropriate” (Au & Jordan, 1981), “culturally congruent” (Mohatt & Erickson, 1981), “culturally responsive” (Au, 2009; Cazden & Leggett, 1981; Erickson & Mohatt, 1982; Lee, 1998), and “culturally compatible” (Jordan, 1985; Vogt, Jordan & Tharp, 1987). Ladson-Billings (1992) also provides some clarification between critical and culturally relevant pedagogy, with the difference being that culturally relevant pedagogy urges collective action grounded in cultural understanding, experiences, and ways of knowing the world. This has become more widely known and accepted in the education field. For example, the U.S. Department of Education's Equity Assistance Centers, such as the Equity Alliance at ASU help states, school districts and schools to establish the conditions for equitable educational outcomes for all students, using cultural responsiveness as one of the measures of the needed capabilities of teachers, principals and school communities as a whole. \nThe theory surrounding culturally relevant teaching is connected to a larger body of knowledge on multicultural education and helping culturally diverse students excel in education. Researchers argue that there are gaps in academic achievement between mainstream culture and immigrants or ethnic cultural groups. Early theories suggest, the disconnect between these groups were due to student/teacher language difficulties or that ethnic cultures don’t value education as heavily as the Western culture does. Often placing, culturally diverse students unnecessarily in special education classes simply because of linguistic and cultural differences. In response to these challenges, some researchers and teachers believe that education should be adapted to \"match the cultures students bring with them from home.\" One key educational researcher who has contributed significantly to the progression of culturally relevant teaching is Geneva Gay. In her landmark book, \"Culturally Responsive Teaching: Theory, Research, and Practice\", Geneva Gay expanded the traditional view of culture beyond race and ethnicity. She wrote, \"Even without being consciously aware of it, culture determines how we think, believe, and behave\" In other words, culture is a student's beliefs, motivations, and even social groups and norms. Thus, the teacher who practices culturally relevant teaching understands that culture manifests in a variety of adaptations within how students prefer to learn. A culturally responsive teacher uses differentiated instruction to tailor learning to every aspect of a student's culture.\n\nMany of these researchers and educators support the constructivist theories of education because such perspectives recognize the value of multiple cultural viewpoints. In constructivism, learners are taught to question, challenge, and critically analyze information rather than blindly accept what it taught; which leads to exactly the type of teaching advocated by the originators of culturally relevant teaching. James Banks lays out 5 dimensions of multicultural education. These dimensions laid the foundation for the move toward culturally relevant teaching. The first dimension is content integration where teachers make a conscious effort to represent a variety of cultures in the curriculum and teaching. The second dimension of knowledge construction asks learners to begin questioning and critically analyzing the biased, and previously accepted, curriculum. In the third dimension, the teaching focus shifts to encouraging cross-cultural interactions in an effort to reduce prejudice. By the fourth dimension, equitable pedagogy, the teacher uses culturally relevant teaching to change teaching approaches. The purpose of Banks' fourth dimension is to tailor teaching methods to ensure success of students from all cultures. If successful, the fourth dimension and culturally relevant teaching will manifest into Banks' fifth dimension of an empowered school culture. It is in this stage when teachers and learners critically examine the institution of education for inequities. Banks' fourth and fifth dimensions are the perfect example of culturally relevant teaching. Teachers who achieve these dimensions, and thus fully realize the impact of culturally relevant teaching, cherish learners who question, seek answers through inquiry, and embrace a mindset of social justice. All of which are the key components of constructivism.\n\nJames Scheurich believes that culturally relevant pedagogy has a significant importance on our youth because it benefits students no matter what the ethnic background or culture of the students. In a video James Scheurich explains how the success of our country is in the hand of our children and in a society where students of color will no longer be the minority, he expresses how teachers must teach to their audience in order for students to be successful. (Scheurich James, N/A)\n\nIn multicultural cities like Toronto, Ontario CRP is currently being used in arts-education alongside other pedagogies, including Purpose Driven Education, that encourage authenticity, reclaiming personal power, and self-love through exploration of one's own familial and ethnic history.\n\nA number of authors, including Gay and Lipman have identified characteristics of culturally responsive teaching. These characteristics are:\n\n\nIn the context of British University Business Schools, Jabbar and Hardaker (2013). have proposed a five pillar framework that is designed to support academics in understanding the pertinent aspects of developing pedagogy for students from culturally and ethnically diverse backgrounds in UK Higher Education \n\n\nIn order to be culturally relevant, teachers must create an accommodating and inviting classroom culture, if they are to reach diverse audiences. Classrooms have become more and more diverse as generations of students enter the school system, so it has become increasingly important to integrate cultural awareness in the classroom. Teachers must demonstrate that they care for their students and their cultural needs, because a genuine attitude of interest is likely to yield positive emotions that empower and motivate students. One way teachers can make their classroom less intimidating is through reciprocal teaching, where students and teachers take turns leading the class discussions. In this method, the students' voice is heard, and the classroom teacher becomes more of a facilitator than a \"director\". Students then feel more empowered, and autonomous in their own learning. Reciprocal teaching such as through this method, gives students the opportunity to express the material according to their cultural viewpoints, which is very important according to the constructivist and progressive educator.\n\nGloria Ladson-Billings has several research projects and articles where she interviewed diverse schools. She mainly focused on low socioeconomic schools. After identifying several exceptional teachers in public schools in low-socioeconomic, mostly African American school districts, Ladson-Billings spent time observing and trying to explain their success with students who are typically pushed to the margins by public education. Ladson-Billings found that all of the teachers shared pride in and commitment to their profession and had an underlying belief that all children could be successful.The participating teachers maintained relationships with their students that were “fluid and equitable” and often attended community events in order to demonstrate support for their students. These teachers also believed in creating bonds with students and developing a “community of learners,” which means that all students worked collaboratively to become responsible for each other's learning. Ladson-Billings maintains that in order for teachers to use culturally relevant pedagogy successfully, they must also show respect for students and “understand the need for the students to operate in the dual worlds of their home community and the white community.” \n\nSimilarly, many educators recommend cooperative learning methods as effective teaching strategies to promote culturally relevant learning. Rather than fostering competitiveness among students, group learning strategies encourage collaboration in the completion of assignments. This way students learn to work together towards common goals. Students learn important skills such as teamwork, and embracing other learning styles.\n\nThere have been many studies done in response to how students respond to teachers that exhibit the above characteristics, incorporating the principles and use of these strategies within the classroom. In the article \"Telling Their Side of the Story: African American Students' Perceptions of Culturally Relevant Teaching.\" Tyrone C. Howard looked at the \"perceptions and interpretations\" of students who have experienced this type of learning environment. The qualitative data which included students response, is evidence that this is a positive and effective form of pedagogy.\n\nGames and cross-cultural activities allow students personal interaction with different cultures. For instance, in the three-hour game, \"Ba Fa Ba Fa\", students participate in one of two very different cultures and must learn the languages and customs of that cultural group. Similar to this activity, is the program \"Tribes\" implemented into many elementary classrooms, to help stunts understand their school and classroom as unique and diverse communities.\n\nOther suggested strategies include family history research where students interview family members and learn about familial cultural influences on their own lives, and reflective writing where students write about and share their beliefs and cultural assumptions. Meta-reflection through these activities is very important to student learning, about themselves and their peers. Students may choose to write about their cultural identity and its connection with their educational experiences, or they may choose to look at a different culture altogether, which they have learned about from a peer. Learning about new cultures through this activity can be very engaging for students.\n\nIt is very important that teachers advocate for students sharing their own personal experiences with their classmates. This allows students to learn more about one another and new cultures in general. As a teacher prepares to implement culturally relevant teaching into the classroom, it is most effective for the teacher to recognize the student's diversity and incorporate their backgrounds into the lesson and classroom environment. The 21st century classroom, and learner are always evolving, and it is important that our students are global thinkers. Understanding and embracing the variety of cultural backgrounds which make up a classroom is pivotal to lifelong learning, and developing transformative skills for life beyond the education system.\n\nUsing Technology to Promote CRT\n\nOptimistically, technology offers the unique chance for educators to bridge the curriculum of school to the 21st century learner, as culturally relevant teaching intends. The most significant barrier to the implementation of culturally relevant teaching has been the prevailing disconnect between school learning and the real-world needs of students - particularly minority students. Yet, when used correctly, \"computer technology can provide students with an excellent tool for applying concepts in a variety of contexts, thereby breaking the artificial isolation of school subject matter from the real-world situations\" Technology permeates the real-world environment of the 21st century student. It is literally integral in the culture of the digital native learner. According to their literature review, Conole et al. found that for today's students, technology is transferable, integrated, personalized, organized, adaptive, and pervasive. Today's student is continuously connected and in many cases far more of an expert than their teacher. Thus, if schools utilize technology, the curriculum becomes truly relevant and responsive to the learner of the 21st century. In school learning mirrors the learning they engage in outside of school.\n\nWith technology, students possess the ability to connect and interact with colleagues, across the globe, who share their views and beliefs. In interviews, digital natives report that, \"lost cost communication technologies such as Skype, MSN chat, and email were considered invaluable forms of communication.\" With technology, learners are able to form social groups and engage in cross-cultural interactions that provide instant feedback and learning challenges beyond the capacity of a single textbook, classroom, or neighborhood. These cross-cultural interactions, nearly impossible before global technologies, lead to the depth of questioning and critical thought needed to be successful in the 21st century, global society. In short, students use social networking and technological connections to connect with social and cultural peers but ultimately engage in interactions with members of a variety of cultural groups. These interactions can be quite empowering for modern learners.\n\nThe 21st century learner is what Neil Selwyn refers to as an, \"empowered digital native\". This empowered learner is no longer held hostage to the culturally insensitive curriculum of public schools. In contrast, they are proficient at using technology to tailor their own learning. Within seconds, learners can access a wealth of information and knowledge and no longer must trust solely the limited perspective presented in their textbook. The 21st century learner is accustomed to using technology to challenge preconceived information. \"Research indicates that computer technology can help support learning, and that it is especially useful in developing the higher-order skills of critical thinking analysis, and scientific inquiry.\" Clearly, technology offers the potential of helping students achieve and benefit from culturally relevant teaching.\n\nOther suggested best practices in teaching race and diversity into the curriculum are:\n\n1. Create a positive learning environment: attentive skills, teaching skills, and teacher/student interaction (Radical Pedagogy, 2003).\n\n2. Utilize a diverse curriculum (Gollnick and Chinn, 2013).\n\n3. Know, understand, and work with families that come from different race and ethnicities (Gonzalez-Mena and Pulido-Tobiassen, 1999).\n\n4. Expose children to role models from their own culture as well as those from other cultures (Gonzalez-Mena and Pulido-Tobiassen, 1999).\n\n5. Utilize student's cultures to help them learn the subjects and skills taught in school (Gollnick and Chinn, 2013).\n\n6. Start teaching multi-cultural education to students at an early age (Russel, 2007).\n\n7. Use literacy and children's books in the classroom to promote culturally relevant teaching. By using texts that have characters of all different backgrounds, students can easily learn about new cultures (Ladson-Billings, 1992).\n\nNot all educators favor culturally relevant teaching. Indeed, there are many practical challenges to implementing culturally relevant pedagogy including a lack of enforcement of culturally relevant teaching methods, and the tendency to view students as individual units only, rather than seeing them as linked inseparably with their cultural groups. \nIn culturally relevant pedagogy, new teachers must be taught how to adapt their curriculum, methodology, teaching methods, and instructional materials to connect with students’ values and cultural norms. Therefore, another challenge for educators is to prepare reflective practitioners who can connect with diverse students and their families. Even though some schools of education acknowledge credibility in training culturally relevant educators, many wrestle with how fit such training into their program and \"grudgingly add a diversity course to their curriculum.\" One contributor to this reluctance comes from the education professors’ discomfort with or fear of addressing issues such as racism in their courses.\n\"The student population of America's classrooms has changed. Currently, 43% of students in our nation's schools come from racially and ethnically diverse backgrounds. Latinos account for 20% of the school population and Blacks 17%. Nationally, white students now represent 57% of public school enrollment, down from 61% in the 1993-94 school year. Given these demographics, Kenneth Fasching-Varner and Vanessa Dodo-Seriki have suggested that disconnects in teacher and student identity lead to \"Free and Reduced Pedagogy,\" or a non-student first approach that reduces students to cultural differences, discrediting students based on their identitites and differences in identities between teachers and students. In the largest school districts, half or more of the students are non-white. Demographic projections predict that cultural and ethnic diversity will increase. Students of color will become the majority in the United States by 2023.\" (James Scheurich, N/A)\n\nThere are many examples of culturally relevant programs:\nAdvancement via Individual Determination (AVID) is a program from the San Diego (California) public schools that helps underrepresented students (including those from different cultural groups) by mixing low-achieving students with high-achieving students in college preparation programs. \"AVID employs many principles of cooperative learning in its \"writing, inquiry, and collaboration\" approach to curriculum and instruction. \n\nAnother California-based group focused on culturally relevant teaching is the Umoja Community. This program roots itself in the principles and practices of Culturally Relevant Teaching. Umoja works with students, colleges and the community to promote awareness, instill values and provide the foundations needed to achieve success, particularly for African American students, although it is committed to helping all students. The Umoja Community is recognized by the California Community Colleges Board of Directors and helps serve over 2,000 students a year.\n\nThe Russian Mission School in Alaska incorporates Native American culture with the standard curriculum and emphasizes hands-on activities that are relevant to their local lifestyle. \n\nIn her book \"The Dreamkeepers: Successful Teachers of African American Children\", Gloria Ladson-Billings presents several examples of excellent cultural relevant teaching in African American classrooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "4769818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4769818", "title": "Elagabalium", "text": "Elagabalium\n\nThe Elagabalium was a temple built by the Roman emperor Elagabalus, located on the north-east corner of the Palatine Hill. During Elagabalus' reign from 218 until 222, the Elagabalium was the center of a controversial religious cult, dedicated to Deus Sol Invictus, of which the emperor himself was the high priest.\n\nThe temple was a colonnaded structure some 70 metres by 40 metres, in front of the Colosseum, within a colonnaded enclosure. The temple platform was originally built under Domitian between 81 and 96, and may have been a place of worship to Jupiter. The remnants of this terrace are still visible today at the north-east corner of the Palatine Hill.\n\nWhen Elagabalus became emperor in 218 the temple was expanded and rededicated to the god El-Gabal, the patron deity of his homeplace Emesa in Syria. Elagabalus renamed the god \"Deus Sol Invictus\" and personally led a cult that worshipped this deity. Deus Sol Invictus was personified by a conical black stone, which has been suggested to have been a piece of meteorite rock.\n\nAfter Elagabalus' death the temple was again dedicated to Jupiter by Severus Alexander. A second, smaller temple to the god El-Gabal was built where the church of Santa Croce in Gerusalemme now stands. If still in use by the 4th-century, it would have been closed during the persecution of pagans in the late Roman Empire.\n\nSince the reign of Septimius Severus, sun worship had increased throughout the Empire. Elagabalus saw this as an opportunity to set up his god, El-Gabal, as the chief deity of the Roman pantheon. El-Gabal, renamed \"Deus Sol Invictus\" or \"God the Undefeated Sun\", was placed over even Jupiter. As a sign of the union between the two religions, Elagabalus gave either Astarte, Minerva, Urania, or some combination of the three, to El-Gabal as a wife. Herodian writes that Elagabalus forced senators to watch while he danced around the altar of El-Gabal to the sound of drums and cymbals, and that each summer solstice became a great festival to El-Gabal popular with the masses because of its widely distributed food. During this festival, Elagabalus placed El-Gabal on a chariot adorned with gold and jewels, which he paraded through the city, after which he threw gifts into the Roman crowds:\n\nAfter thus bringing the god out and placing him in the temple, Heliogabalus performed the rites and sacrifices described above; then, climbing to the huge, lofty towers which he had erected, he threw down, indiscriminately, cups of gold and silver, clothing, and cloth of every type to the mob below.\n\nThe most sacred relics from the Roman religion were transferred from their respective shrines to the Elagabalium, including the Great Mother, the fire of Vesta, the Shields of the Salii and the Palladium. Ancient history records lurid tales of human sacrifice taking place inside the temple, involving children which were collected all over Italy from the richest and noblest families. The religious excesses of Elagabalus' reign eventually contributed to his demise. On March 11, 222, Elagabalus was killed by members of the Praetorian Guard, and replaced by his cousin Severus Alexander. Elagabalus' religious edicts were reversed, and the statues which had been moved to the Elagabalium were restored to their original shrines.\n\n"}
{"id": "1021495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1021495", "title": "Ethnocide", "text": "Ethnocide\n\nEthnocide refers to extermination of national culture as a genocide component.\n\nReviewing the legal and academic history of usage of the terms genocide and ethnocide, Bartolomé Clavero differentiates between them in that \"Genocide kills people while ethnocide kills social cultures through the killing of individual souls\". In addition, \"since cultural genocide can only be the cultural dimension \"of\" genocide\", the idea of ethnocide is more than just \"cultural genocide\", but also part of broader genocidal process.\n\nBecause concepts such as cultural genocide and ethnocide have been used in different contexts, the anthropology of genocide examines their inclusion and exclusion in law and policies.\n\nRaphael Lemkin, the linguist and lawyer who coined \"genocide\" in 1943 as the union of \"the Greek word \"genos\" (race, tribe) and the Latin \"cide\" (killing)\", also suggested \"ethnocide\" as an alternative form representing the same concept, using the Greek \"ethnos\" (nation) in place of \"genos\". However, the term genocide has received much wider adoption than ethnocide.\n\nAs early as 1933, lawyer Raphael Lemkin proposed a cultural component to genocide, which he called \"cultural genocide\". The term has since acquired rhetorical value as a phrase that is used to protest against the destruction of cultural heritage. \n\nThe drafters of the 1948 Genocide Convention considered the use of the term, but dropped it from their consideration. The legal definition of genocide is left unspecific about the exact nature in which genocide is done only that it is destruction with intent to destroy a racial, religious, ethnic or national group as such.\n\nArticle 7 of a 1994 draft of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples uses both the word \"ethnocide\" and the phrase \"cultural genocide\" but does not define what they mean. The complete article reads as follows:\n\nThe United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly during its 62nd session at UN Headquarters in New York City on 13 September 2007, but only mentions \"genocide\", not \"cultural genocide\", although the article is otherwise unchanged.\n\nIn UNESCO \"Declaration of San Jose\":\n\nThe French ethnologist Robert Jaulin (1928-1996) proposed a redefinition of the concept of ethnocide in 1970, to refer not the \"means\" but the \"ends\" that define ethnocide. Accordingly, the ethnocide would be the systematic destruction of the thought and the way of life of people different from those who carry out this enterprise of destruction. Whereas the genocide assassinates the people in their body, the ethnocide kills them in their spirit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49001515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49001515", "title": "Exegetical neutrality", "text": "Exegetical neutrality\n\nIn translation, the principle of exegetical neutrality is that 'if at any point in a text there is a passage that raises for the native speaker legitimate questions of exegesis, then, if at all possible, a translator should strive to confront the reader of his version with the same questions of exegesis and not produce a version which in his mind resolves those questions'.\n"}
{"id": "557945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=557945", "title": "Fortress America (board game)", "text": "Fortress America (board game)\n\nFortress America is a strategic board game designed by Michael Gray and published in 1986 by Milton Bradley. \"Fortress America\" was the fourth of five games in the \"Gamemaster\" series.\n\nSet in the 21st century, the board game begins with the premise that during the Cold War, nuclear terrorists destroyed much of the Middle East's supply of oil. In response, the United States launched into orbit a satellite based solar-power system to solve the energy crisis. At the same time, the U.S. had perfected the so-called \"Star Wars\" technology and incorporated a satellite-based laser system into the solar satellites. This system was capable of destroying intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) before impact. Thus, the USA was completely safe from nuclear threat, ending the era of Mutual Assured Destruction.\n\nThis creates a great deal of political turmoil - the USSR is especially upset at the nuclear balance of power being shifted - and while the rest of the world realigns in various ways (through alliances and treaties as well as conventional military conflict) the United States, complacent in its technical superiority, becomes isolationist in nature.\n\nThe game opens with the world divided into three major world powers outside of the US:\n\n1) The Asian Peoples Alliance (yellow player)\n\n2) The Central American Federation (blue player)\n\n3) The Euro-Socialist Pact (red player)\n\nThese three powers have launched a surprise invasion on the now-conventionally-weak United States: Asian invaders on the Pacific coast, Central American invaders along the Southwestern border with Mexico, and the Euro-Soviet invaders along the Eastern Seaboard. The United States Navy is brushed aside. The Army and Air Force, still capable of resistance, are nevertheless insufficient to halt the multi-pronged invasions.\n\nThe unique nature of this game is the notion of three of four players cooperating for the elimination of one player (the US). The game has an interesting dynamic of the US player being outnumbered 3:1 in military strength but steadily being reinforced by laser relay towers which each have a 60% chance to destroy an enemy unit anywhere on the board each turn. The rules of combat also favor the defender. Also, the invaders must place their reinforcements, which arrive on an even basis over the first few turns and then run out entirely, in their own invasion zones, which are sometimes far from the front, while the U.S. never runs out and can often be reinforced right at the front. The American player receives reinforcements by drawing two cards per turn, which sometimes specify for partisans or military forces to appear behind enemy lines. Others allow the U.S. to reconstruct shattered units from the dead pile in home cities, while all invading units are permanently out of play when lost in combat. The result is a game that - if played well by all players - will result in a very close contest. There are 30 cities represented on the board and the invaders must capture, and hold until the end of an entire turn, 18 or more of them to win the game. This allows the U.S. one round to counterattack and recapture after all the invaders have played a round and temporarily achieved their goal of 18.\n\nCommercially, this was considered to be the third most successful board game in Milton Bradley's \"Gamemaster Series\" placing it in the middle of the pack. However, world events and popular culture and Hollywood have influenced a small resurgence in the game's popularity evidenced by the 2012 remake and re-issue. In 1987, \"Fortress America\" won the Charles S. Roberts Award for \"Best 20th Century Game of 1986\".\n\nThe original game also had two different covers. The first had an image which resembled Saddam Hussein and the other cover replaced the Saddam look-a-like with a bearded and sunglasses-wearing version.\n\nIn 2012 Fantasy Flight Games released a remake of Fortress America with a few design changes. A few new rule changes have been implemented. The game now has a fixed maximum number of turns. Mechanized units can \"transport\" foot units. A few objectives were changed on the map. Reflecting population shifts, Kansas City and Buffalo are no longer depicted, Las Vegas and Colorado Springs have been added, plus resource areas were juggled. The attackers have optional event cards. A few of the old cards were changed, and one new \"free laser complex\" card was added for a total of 31 cards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "382633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382633", "title": "GloFish", "text": "GloFish\n\nThe GloFish is a patented and trademarked brand of genetically engineered fluorescent fish. A variety of different GloFish are currently on the market. Zebrafish were the first GloFish available in pet stores, and are now sold in bright red, green, orange-yellow, blue, and purple fluorescent colors. Recently \"Electric Green\", \"Sunburst Orange\", \"Moonrise Pink\", \"Starfire Red\", \"Cosmic Blue\", and \"Galactic Purple\" colored tetra (\"Gymnocorymbus ternetzi\"), an \"Electric Green\" tiger barb (\"Puntius tetrazona\") and a glo-Rainbow Shark (\"Epalzeorhynchos frenatum)\" have been added to the lineup. Although not originally developed for the ornamental fish trade, it is one of the first genetically modified animals to become publicly available. It is sold only in the United States, where it remains the only genetically modified animal to be publicly available. The rights to GloFish are owned by Spectrum Brands, Inc., which purchased GloFish from Yorktown Technologies, the original developer of GloFish, in May 2017.\n\nThe original zebrafish (or zebra danio, \"Danio rerio\") is a native of rivers in India and Bangladesh. It measures three centimeters long and has gold and dark blue stripes.\n\nIn 1999, Dr. Zhiyuan Gong and his colleagues at the National University of Singapore were working with a gene that encodes the green fluorescent protein (GFP), originally extracted from a jellyfish, that naturally produced bright green fluorescence. They inserted the gene into a zebrafish embryo, allowing it to integrate into the zebrafish's genome, which caused the fish to be brightly fluorescent under both natural white light and ultraviolet light. Their goal was to develop a fish that could detect pollution by selectively fluorescing in the presence of environmental toxins. The development of the constantly fluorescing fish was the first step in this process, and the National University of Singapore filed a patent application on this work. Shortly thereafter, his team developed a line of red fluorescent zebra fish by adding a gene from a sea coral, and orange-yellow fluorescent zebra fish, by adding a variant of the jellyfish gene. Later, a team of researchers at the National Taiwan University, headed by Professor Huai-Jen Tsai (蔡懷禎), succeeded in creating a medaka (rice fish) with a fluorescent green color, which, like the zebrafish, is a model organism used in biology.\n\nThe scientists from NUS and businessmen Alan Blake and Richard Crockett from Yorktown Technologies, L.P., a company in Austin, Texas, met and a deal was signed whereby Yorktown obtained the worldwide rights to market the fluorescent zebrafish, which Yorktown subsequently branded as \"GloFish\". At around the same time, a separate deal was made between Taikong, the largest aquarium fish producer in Taiwan, and the Taiwanese researchers to market the green medaka in Taiwan under the name TK-1. In the spring of 2003, Taiwan became the first to authorize sales of a genetically modified organism as a pet. One hundred thousand fish were reportedly sold in less than a month at US$18.60 each. The fluorescent medaka are not GloFish, as they are not marketed by Yorktown Technologies, but instead by Taikong Corp under a different brand name.\n\nGloFish were introduced to the United States market in late 2003 by Yorktown Technologies, after two years of research. The governmental environmental risk assessment was made by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which has jurisdiction over all genetically modified (GM) animals, including fluorescent zebra fish, since they consider the inserted gene to be a drug. The FDA determined in December 2003:\n\nBecause tropical aquarium fish are not used for food purposes, they pose no threat to the food supply. There is no evidence that these genetically engineered zebra danio fish pose any more threat to the environment than their unmodified counterparts which have long been widely sold in the United States. In the absence of a clear risk to the public health, the FDA finds no reason to regulate these particular fish.\nMarketing of the fish was met by protests from a non-governmental organization called the Center for Food Safety. They were concerned that approval of the GloFish based only on a Food and Drug Administration risk assessment would create a precedent of inadequate scrutiny of biotech animals in general. The group filed a lawsuit in US Federal District Court to block the sale of the GloFish. The lawsuit sought a court order stating that the sale of transgenic fish is subject to federal regulation beyond the FDA's charter, and as such should not be sold without more extensive approvals. In the opinion of Joseph Mendelson, the Center for Food Safety's legal director:\n\nIt's clear this sets a precedent for genetically engineered animals. It opens the dams to a whole host of nonfood genetically engineered organisms. That's unacceptable to us and runs counter to things the National Academy of Sciences and other scientific review boards have said, particularly when it comes to mobile GM organisms like fish and insects.\nThe Center for Food Safety's suit was found to be without merit and dismissed on March 30, 2005.\n\nIn addition to the red fluorescent zebrafish, trademarked as \"Starfire Red\", Yorktown Technologies released a green fluorescent zebrafish and an orange-yellow fluorescent zebrafish in mid-2006. In 2011, blue and purple fluorescent zebrafish were released. These lines of fish are trademarked as \"Electric Green\", \"Sunburst Orange\", \"Cosmic Blue\", and \"Galactic Purple\", and incorporate genes from sea coral. In 2012, Yorktown Technologies introduced a new variety of \"Electric Green\" GloFish, derived from a different species of fish, the black tetra. This was followed by the \"Electric Green\" Barb, which is a variety of tiger barb. In 2013, Yorktown Technologies introduced a \"Sunburst Orange\" Tetra and a \"Moonrise Pink\" Tetra, the first fluorescent pink fish to be marketed. This was followed in 2014 by the release of a \"Starfire Red\" and \"Cosmic Blue\" Tetra.\n\nDespite the speculation of aquarium enthusiasts that the eggs are pressure treated to make them infertile, it has been found some GloFish are indeed fertile and will reproduce in a captive environment. However, the GloFish Fluorescent Fish License states \"Intentional breeding and/or any sale, barter, or trade, of any offspring of GloFish fluorescent ornamental fish is strictly prohibited.\"\n\nSale or possession of GloFish was made illegal in California in 2002 due to a regulation that restricts genetically modified fish. The regulation was implemented before the marketing of GloFish, largely due to concern about a fast-growing biotech salmon. The regulations were lifted in 2015 due to a growing body of evidence and the findings of the Food and Drug Administration and the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. GloFish are now legal in California for importation and commercial sale.\n\nThe import, sale and possession of these fish is not permitted within the European Union. On November 9, 2006, however, the Netherlands’ Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment (VROM) found 1,400 fluorescent fish, which were sold in various aquarium shops.\n\nIn January 2009, the U.S. Food & Drug Administration formalized their recommendations for genetically engineered animals. These non-binding recommendations describe the way in which FDA regulates all GM animals, including GloFish.\n\nResearch published in 2014 assessed the environmental safety associated with GloFish. One paper concluded that there is little risk of invasiveness into the environment. A second study concluded that there is no difference in risk between GloFish and wild-type danios.\n\nExamples of sources of fluorescent protein genes include GFP (\"Aequorea victoria\", jellyfish), GFP (\"Renilla reniformis\", sea pansy), dsRed (\"Discosoma\", mushroom coral), eqFP611 (\"Entacmaea quadricolor\", sea anemone), RTMS5 (\"Montipora efflorescens\", stony coral), dronpa (\"Pectiniidae\", chalice coral), KFP (\"Anemonia sulcata\", Venus hair anemone), eosFP (\"Lobophyllia hemprichii\", open brain coral), and dendra (\"Dendronephthya\", octocoral).\n\nIn early 2014, scientists identified approximately 200 species of naturally occurring fluorescent fish, suggesting that the fluorescence trait is widespread in fish lines.\n\nFluorescent zebrafish also have been used for other experimental research. The alterations in the zebrafish's genes have given the organism the ability to fluoresce as a bio-indicator. This genetic ability has been used to detect pollution and other chemicals.\n\nChemicals that mimic natural estrogens have well-documented effects on the reproductive systems of vertebrates, typically acting as endocrine disruptors, and GloFish fluorescence is being used to detect levels of estrogenic chemicals. Investigators found that muscles such as the heart are more affected by estrogen than the liver. Using the GloFish may thus give insights into endocrine disrupting chemical actions.\n\nThe sentiments of aquarium retailers towards the GloFish have also been used as an indicator of the public's positive reaction to controversial agricultural biotechnologies.\n\nGloFish are more vulnerable to predation compared to the wild-type, according to a study published in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "501118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501118", "title": "Hermit kingdom", "text": "Hermit kingdom\n\nThe term hermit kingdom can be used to refer to any country, organization or society which willfully walls itself off, either metaphorically or physically, from the rest of the world - The country of North Korea is a prime example of a hermit kingdom.\n\nKorea in the age of Joseon dynasty was the subject of the first use of the term, in William Elliot Griffis' 1882 book \"Corea: The Hermit Nation\", and Korea was frequently described as a hermit kingdom until 1905 when it became a protectorate of Japan. The term is still commonplace throughout Korea and it is often used by Koreans themselves to describe pre-modern Korea. Today, the term is often applied to North Korea in news and social media, and in 2009 it was used by United States former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. \n"}
{"id": "151831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151831", "title": "Homophone", "text": "Homophone\n\nA homophone is a word that is pronounced the same (to varying extent) as another word but differs in meaning. A homophone may also differ in spelling. The two words may be spelled the same, such as \"rose\" (flower) and \"rose\" (past tense of \"rise\"), or differently, such as \"carat\", \"caret\", and \"carrot\", or \"to\", \"two\", and \"too\". The term \"homophone\" may also apply to units longer or shorter than words, such as phrases, letters, or groups of letters which are pronounced the same as another phrase, letter, or group of letters. Any unit with this property is said to be \"homophonous\".\n\nHomophones that are spelled the same are also both homographs and homonyms.\n\nHomophones that are spelled differently are also called heterographs.\n\n\"Homophone\" derives from the Greek \"homo-\"  (ὁμο‑), \"same\", and \"phōnḗ\" (φωνή), \"voice, utterance\".\n\nHomophones are often used to create puns and to deceive the reader (as in crossword puzzles) or to suggest multiple meanings. The last usage is common in poetry and creative literature. An example of this is seen in Dylan Thomas's radio play \"Under Milk Wood\": \"The shops in mourning\" where \"mourning\" can be heard as \"mourning\" or \"morning\". Another vivid example is Thomas Hood's use of \"birth\" and \"berth\" and \"told\" and \"toll'd\" (tolled) in his poem \"Faithless Sally Brown\":\n\nIn some accents, various sounds have merged in that they are no longer distinctive, and thus words that differ only by those sounds in an accent that maintains the distinction (a minimal pair) are homophonous in the accent with the merger. Some examples from English are:\n\nWordplay is particularly common in English because the multiplicity of linguistic influences offers considerable complication in spelling and meaning and pronunciation compared with other languages.\n\nMalapropisms, which often create a similar comic effect, are usually near-homophones. See also Eggcorn.\n\nHomophones of multiple words or phrases (as sometimes seen in word games) are also known as \"oronyms\". This term was coined by Gyles Brandreth and first published in his book \"The Joy of Lex\" (1980), and it was used in the BBC programme \"Never Mind the Full Stops\", which also featured Brandreth as a guest.\n\nExamples of \"oronyms\" (which may only be true homophones in certain dialects of English) include:\n\nIn his Appalachian comedy routine, American comedian Jeff Foxworthy frequently uses oronyms which play on exaggerated \"country\" accents. Notable examples include:\n\nThere are sites, for example, https://web.archive.org/web/20160825095711/http://people.sc.fsu.edu/~jburkardt/fun/wordplay/multinyms.html, which have lists of homonyms or rather homophones and even 'multinyms' which have as many as seven spellings. There are differences in such lists due to dialect pronunciations and usage of old words. In English, there are approximately 88 triples; 24 quadruples; 2 quintuples; 1 sextet and 1 septet. The septet is:\n\nOther than the three common words (\"raise\", \"rays\" and \"raze\"), there are:\n\n\nIf proper names are allowed then a nonet is \"Ayr\" (Scottish town), \"Aire\" (Yorkshire River), \"Eyre\" (legal term and various geographic locations), \"heir\", \"air\", \"err\" (some speakers), \"ere\" (poetic \"before\"), \"e'er\" (poetic \"ever\", some speakers), \"are\" (unit of area; some speakers).\n\nThere are a large number of homophones in Japanese, due to the use of Sino-Japanese vocabulary, where borrowed words and morphemes from Chinese are widely used in Japanese, but many sound differences, such as tones, are lost. These are to some extent disambiguated via Japanese pitch accent, or from context, but many of these words are primarily or almost exclusively used in writing, where they are easily distinguished as they are written with different kanji; others are used for puns, which are frequent in Japanese. An extreme example is \"kikō\", which is the pronunciation of at least 22 words (some quite rare or specialized, others common; all these examples are two-character compounds), including: 機構 (organization/mechanism), 紀行 (travelogue), 稀覯 (rare), 騎行 (horseback riding), 貴校 ((school (respectful)), 奇功 (outstanding achievement), 貴公 (word for \"you\" used by men addressing male equals or inferiors), 起稿 (draft), 奇行 (eccentricity), 機巧 (contrivance), 寄港 (stopping at port), 帰校 (returning to school), 気功 (breathing exercise/qigong), 寄稿 (contribute an article/written piece), 機甲 (armor, e.g. of a tank), 帰航 (homeward voyage), 奇効 (remarkable effect), 季候 (season/climate), 気孔 (stoma), 起工 (setting to work), 気候 (climate), 帰港 (returning to port).\n\nThe Korean language contains a combination of words that strictly belong to Korean and words that are loanwords from Chinese. Due to Chinese being pronounced with varying tones and Korean's removal of those tones, and because the modern Korean writing system, Hangeul, has a more finite number of phonemes than, for example, Latin-derived alphabets such as that of English, there is a large number of homonyms with both same spelling and pronunciation. For example, '화장(化粧)하다': 'to put on makeup' and '화장(火葬)하다': 'to cremate'. Also, '유산(遺産)': 'inheritance' and '유산(流産)': 'miscarriage'. '방구': 'fart', and '방구(防具)': 'guard'. '밤[밤ː]': 'chestnut', and '밤': 'night'. There are heterographs, but far fewer, contrary to the tendency in English. For example, '학문(學問)': 'learning', and '항문(肛門)': 'anus'. Using hanja (한자,漢字), which are Chinese characters, such words are written differently. \n\nImplicit above, like in other languages, Korean homonyms can be used to make puns. The context in which the word is used indicates which meaning is intended by the speaker or writer.\n\nPseudo-homophones are pseudowords that are phonetically identical to a word. For example, groan/grone and crane/crain are pseudo-homophone pairs, whereas plane/plain is a homophone pair since both letter strings are recognised words. Both types of pairs are used in lexical decision tasks to investigate word recognition.\n\nHomophones, specifically heterographs, where one spelling is of a threatening nature and one is not (\"e.g.\" slay/sleigh, war/wore) have been used in studies of anxiety as a test of cognitive models that those with high anxiety tend to interpret ambiguous information in a threatening manner.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13251029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13251029", "title": "India Catalina", "text": "India Catalina\n\nIndia Catalina (c. 1495 – ?) was an indigenous woman (almost certainly Calamari) from the Colombian Atlantic coast, who accompanied Pedro de Heredia and played a role in the Spanish conquest of Colombia, acting as interpreter and intermediary.\n\nCatalina was abducted in 1509 by Spanish conqueror Diego de Nicuesa from an indigenous settlement known as Zamba o Galerazamba, where she was the daughter of the local chief. She was sent to Santo Domingo, where she learned the Spanish language and adopted the Catholic religion. Pedro de Heredia required her to serve as an interpreter to the Native Americans. Afterwards, she married Alonso Montañez, Pedro de Heredia's nephew.\n\nThe events of the Spanish conquest in the area of modern Cartagena ended with the complete annihilation of the Calamari people, which happened while she was enslaved and abducted by the Spaniards.\n\nThe name of Catalina India appeared in a letter sent for Pedro de Heredia to King Carlos V in 1533. No one knew what her real name was because he began calling her 'Catalina' from 1509 when the Diego de Nicuesa expedition kidnapped and took her to Santo Domingo where was educated as a Spaniard. From that time she would use Spanish dress only but was still considered a slave.\n\nWhen they returned to Cartagena twenty years after, she was changed. She made the first contact with Corinche Indians after her arrival with Heredia, on the 14 January 1533. She translated for Heredia in the pacification of the many Indian towns as turbacos that he eliminated in combat to Juan de La Cosa many years ago.\n\nThe monument to India Catalina was sculpted by Eladio Gil Zambrana and presented to the public in 1974. Small scale replicas are used in the Cartagena Film Festival awards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50015480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50015480", "title": "Insects in religion", "text": "Insects in religion\n\nInsects have long been used in religion, both directly (with live insects) and as images or symbols.\n\nIn the Brazilian Amazon, members of the Tupí–Guaraní language family have been observed using \"Pachycondyla commutata\" ants during female rite-of-passage ceremonies, and prescribing the sting of \"Pseudomyrmex\" spp. for fevers and headaches.\n\nPogonomyrmex californicus, a red harvester ant, has been widely used by natives of Southern California and Northern Mexico for hundreds of years in ceremonies conducted to help tribe members acquire spirit helpers through hallucination. During the ritual, young men are sent away from the tribe and consume large quantities of live, unmasticated ants under the supervision of an elderly member of the tribe. Ingestion of ants should lead to a prolonged state of unconsciousness where dream helpers appear and serve as allies to the dreamer for the rest of his life.\n\nIn Ancient Egyptian religion, the dung beetle now known as \"Scarabaeus sacer\" (formerly \"Ateuchus sacer\") was revered as sacred, as Charles Darwin noted in \"On the Origin of Species\", describing the genus \"Ateuchus\" as the \"sacred beetle of the Egyptians.\" To them, the insect was a symbol of Khepri, the early morning manifestation of the sun god Ra, from an analogy between the beetle's behaviour of rolling a ball of dung across the ground and Khepri's task of rolling the sun across the sky. They accordingly held the species to be sacred. The Egyptians also observed young beetles emerging from the ball of dung, from which they mistakenly inferred that the female beetle was able to reproduce without needing a male. From this, they drew parallels with their god Atum, who also begat children alone.\n\nIn the Shinto of Japan, dragonflies are mentioned in haiku poems, for example behaving as if on pilgrimage, or gathering in the Bon festival of the dead.\n\nIn the Quran, the honeybee is the only creature that speak directly to God. Mohammed wrote in the 68-69 verses: And your Lord taught the honey bee to build its cells in hills, on trees, and in (men's) habitations; Then to eat of all the produce (of the earth), and find with skill the spacious paths of its Lord: there issues from within their bodies a drink of varying colours, wherein is healing for men: verily in this is a Sign for those who give thought. (Surat an-Nahl (The Bee), 68-69)\n"}
{"id": "595099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595099", "title": "John Allen Paulos", "text": "John Allen Paulos\n\nJohn Allen Paulos (born July 4, 1945) is an American professor of mathematics at Temple University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He has gained fame as a writer and speaker on mathematics and the importance of mathematical literacy. Paulos writes about many subjects, especially of the dangers of mathematical innumeracy; that is, the layperson's misconceptions about numbers, probability, and logic.\n\nPaulos was born in Denver Colorado and grew up in Chicago, Illinois and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In an interview he described himself as lifelong skeptic. He went to high school in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. After his Bachelor of Mathematics at University of Wisconsin (1967) and his Master of Science at University of Washington (1968) he received his Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Wisconsin–Madison (1974). He was also part of the Peace Corps in the seventies.\n\nHis academic work is mainly in mathematical logic and probability theory.\n\nHis book \"Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and its Consequences\" (1988) was a bestseller and \"A Mathematician Reads the Newspaper\" (1995) extended the critique. In his books Paulos discusses innumeracy with quirky anecdotes, scenarios and facts, encouraging readers in the end to look at their world in a more quantitative way.\n\nHe has also written on other subjects often \"combining disparate disciplines\", such as the mathematical and philosophical basis of humor in \"Mathematics and Humor\" and \"I Think, Therefore I Laugh\", the stock market in \"A Mathematician Plays the Stock Market\", quantitative aspects of narrative in \"Once Upon a Number\", the arguments for God in \"Irreligion\", and most recently \"bringing mathematics to bear on...biography\" in \"A Numerate Life\".\n\nPaulos also wrote a mathematics-tinged column for the UK newspaper \"The Guardian\" and is a Committee for Skeptical Inquiry fellow (formally known as Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP)).\n\nPaulos has appeared frequently on radio and television, including a four-part BBC adaptation of \"A Mathematician Reads the Newspaper\" and appearances on the Lehrer News Hour, 20/20, Larry King, and David Letterman.\n\nIn 2001 Paulos taught a course on quantitative literacy for journalists at the Columbia University School of Journalism. The course stimulated further programs at Columbia and elsewhere in precision and data-driven journalism.\n\nHis long-running \"ABCNews.com\" monthly column \"Who's Counting\" deals with mathematical aspects of stories in the news. All the columns over a 10- year period are archived here.\n\nHe is married and the father of two.\n\nPaulos tweets frequently at @JohnAllenPaulos \n\nPaulos received the 2013 JPBM (Joint Policy Board for Mathematics) Award for Communicating Mathematics on a Sustained Basis to Large Audiences.\n\nPaulos received the 2003 AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science) Award for Promoting the Public Understanding of Science and Technology.\n\nIn 2002 he received the University Creativity Award at Temple University\n\nPaulos' article \"Counting on Dyscalculia,\" which appeared in Discover Magazine in 1994, won a Folio Award that year\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12830634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12830634", "title": "Kommissar X", "text": "Kommissar X\n\nKommissar X or Commissioner X is a German crime fiction series of books from the Pabel Moewig publishing house. \"Kommissar X\" is a private detective named Joe Louis Walker who was a counterpart of the German crime fiction FBI Special Agent Jerry Cotton. In addition to the vast collection of books, between 1965 and 1971 seven Kommissar X films were made with Tony Kendall as the laid back swinging New York City private eye Joe Walker balanced against the serious muscular New York City Police Captain Tom Rowland played by Brad Harris.\n\nThe Kommissar X series of crime novels were written by Bert F. Island whose real name was Paul Alfred Mueller (18 October 1901 – 1 January 1970). Beginning in 1959, Island wrote 620 \"Kommissar X\" books.\n\nWith the international success of the films of Ian Fleming's James Bond and the German Jerry Cotton (played by George Nader) series, seven Commissioner X films, mostly written and directed by Gianfranco Parolini and starring Tony Kendall as private detective Joe Walker and Brad Harris as New York City Police Lieutenant Tom Rowland, were made. These films were not only released internationally, but became a staple of American television movies in the mid-1960s when American stations sought colour films to show.\n\nThe films were\n\n\nThe first three Kommissar X films have been released in the United States but in the same faded and English dubbed versions that were on American television in the 1960s. Remastered versions of the first six films were released in Germany, which include the English dub.\n\nIn 2012 a German comedy dirercted by Reginald Ginster titled \"Die X-Männer schlagen zurück\" featured Harris, Kendall and Parolini.\n"}
{"id": "856602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=856602", "title": "Last and First Men", "text": "Last and First Men\n\nLast and First Men: A Story of the Near and Far Future is a \"future history\" science fiction novel written in 1930 by the British author Olaf Stapledon. A work of unprecedented scale in the genre, it describes the history of humanity from the present onwards across two billion years and eighteen distinct human species, of which our own is the first. The book employs a narrative conceit that, under subtle inspiration, the novelist has unknowingly been dictated a channelled text from the last human species.\n\nStapledon's conception of history is based on the Hegelian Dialectic, following a repetitive cycle with many varied civilisations rising from and descending back into savagery over millions of years, but it is also one of progress, as the later civilisations rise to far greater heights than the first. The book anticipates the science of genetic engineering, and is an early example of the fictional supermind; a consciousness composed of many telepathically-linked individuals.\n\nIn 1932, Stapledon followed \"Last and First Men\" with the far less acclaimed \"Last Men in London\". Another Stapledon novel, \"Star Maker\" (1937), could also be considered a sequel to \"Last and First Men\" (mentioning briefly man's evolution on Neptune), but is even more ambitious in scope, being a history of the entire universe.\n\nIt is the 11th title in the SF Masterworks series.\n\n\n\nCharacters discuss the novel in H. G. Wells' \"Star-Begotten\".\n\nThe novel appears in the computer game \"Deus Ex\" as a reference when a corporation in the game allegedly tries to develop the Second Men in the series, but also in a much broader aspect as the game deals with genetic engineering, the next phase of evolution and human augmentations. Also similar to the book are the options presented to the player as to where human kind will go next: a fall back into an almost savage state of humanity, a keeping of the status quo or an extreme progression with the danger of sacrificing basic rights.\n\nIcelandic composer Jóhann Jóhannsson directed and scored a multimedia \"Last and First Men\", \"combining a film narrated by actress Tilda Swinton and accompanying score played by the BBC Philharmonic\".\n\nBrian Aldiss, in his preface to the 1962 edition, acknowledges the deep impression on him—and considerable influence on his own later writing–of Stapledon's book, which he encountered in 1943 while a British soldier fighting the Japanese in Burma – \"An appropriately unusual period of life at which to encounter a vision so far outside ordinary experience\".\n\nAldiss also mentions James Blish as another writer deeply influenced by Stapledon.\n\nC. S. Lewis in his own preface to \"That Hideous Strength\", notes: \"I believe that one of the central ideas of this tale came into my head from conversations I had with a scientific colleague, some time before I met a rather similar suggestion in the works of Mr. Olaf Stapledon. If I am mistaken in this, Mr. Stapledon is so rich in invention that he can afford to lend, and I admire his invention (though not his philosophy) so much that I should feel no shame to borrow\".\n\nThe reference to \"objecting to Stapledon's philosophy\" was no accident. In particular, the Christian Lewis objected to Stapledon's idea, as expressed in the present book, that mankind could escape from an outworn planet and establish itself on another one; this Lewis regarded as no less than a Satanic idea – especially, but not only, because it involved genocide of the original inhabitants of the target planet. Professor Weston, the chief villain of Lewis' Space Trilogy, is an outspoken proponent of this idea, and in \"Out of the Silent Planet\" Lewis opposes to it the depiction of the virtuous and stoic Martians/Malacandrians who choose to die with their dying planet, even though they possessed the technology to cross space and colonise Earth.\n\nArthur C. Clarke has said of Stapledon's 1930 book \"Last and First Men\" that \"No other book had a greater influence on my life ... [It] and its successor \"Star Maker\" (1937) are the twin summits of [Stapledon's] literary career\".\n\nH. P. Lovecraft held the book in very high regard (though he did not say whether it influenced any of his own stories), saying in a 1936 letter to Fritz Leiber \"no one ought to miss reading W. Olaf Stapledon's \"Last and First Men\" ... Probably you \"have\" read it. If not, make a bee line for library or bookstall!\", and in another 1936 letter to Leiber \"I'm glad to hear of your perusal of \"Last and First Men\"—a volume which to my mind forms the greatest of all achievements in the field that Master Ackerman would denominate \"scientifiction\". Its scope is dizzying—and despite a somewhat disproportionate acceleration of the tempo toward the end, and a few scientific inferences which might legitimately be challenged, it remains a thing of unparalleled power. As you say, it has the truly basic quality of a myth, and some of the episodes are of matchless poignancy and dramatic intensity.\" Finally, in a 1937 letter to Arthur Widner he said \"I don't care for science fiction of the sort published in cheap magazines. There's no vitality in it—merely dry theories tacked on to shallow, unreal, insincere juvenile adventure stories. But I do like the few real masterpieces in the field—certain of H. G. Wells's novels, S. Fowler Wright's \"The World Below\", & that marvellous piece of imagination by W. Olaf Stapledon, \"Last & First Men\".\"\n\nJohn Maynard Smith has said \"A man called Olaf Stapledon was a marvellous predictor who wrote science fiction books that I read when I was 16 and that completely blew my mind; and Arthur C. Clarke put his finger on quite a number of bright thoughts. He and I have something in common: we both took out of the public library the same science fiction book when we were boys of about 15 or 16, which was Stapledon's \"Last and First Men\". We took it out of the same country library in Porlock in Somerset. Whoever put that book on the shelves had a lot to answer for!\"\n\nSir Patrick Moore has said \"The science fiction novel \"Last and First Men\" by Olaf Stapledon is immensely thought-provoking and I've read it time and time again.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "950980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950980", "title": "List of Olympic mascots", "text": "List of Olympic mascots\n\nThe Olympic mascots are fictional characters, usually an animal native to the area or human figures, who represent the cultural heritage of the place where the Olympic and Paralympic Games are taking place. The mascots are often used to help market the Olympic Games to a younger audience, in particular toddlers and children.\nEver since the 1968 Winter Olympics in Grenoble, France, the Olympic Games have always had a mascot. The first major mascot in the Summer Olympic Games was Misha in the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow. Starting with the 2010 Vancouver mascots, the Olympic and Paralympic mascots have been presented together.\n\nThe first Olympic mascot was born at the Grenoble Olympic Games in 1968. It was named \"Schuss\" and it was a little man on skis, designed in an abstract form and painted in the colors of France: blue, red and white. However, the first official Olympic mascot appeared in the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich. It was Waldi, a Dachshund dog, a popular breed in Bavaria and it represented the attributes required for athletes – resistance, tenacity and agility. On it we can see three of the colors of the Olympic flag (blue, yellow, green).\n\nThe success of those first mascots helped the idea of a mascot become a symbol of the Olympic Games and developed into an institution. Mascots are very popular and despite the importance of the message they convey, they are designed in simple manner with bright, happy colors appropriate for the ‘festive’ atmosphere of the Olympic Games.\n\nThe mascots for the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, were Phevos and Athena, two dolls inspired by a bell-shaped archaic sculpture that is on display at the National Archaeological Museum of Athens. In ancient times, these dolls, the ‘daidala’, as they were called, were also items of worship as well as toys. Phevos and Athena are brother and sister and so they symbolize the joy of play and the values of Olympism. The choice of a brother and sister was purposely made to promote the values of equality and brotherhood.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "36283978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36283978", "title": "Lookism", "text": "Lookism\n\nLookism is discriminatory treatment toward people considered physically unattractive, mainly in the workplace but also in dating and other social settings. While not classified in the same way as racial, cultural, sexual discrimination, \"lookism\" is widespread and affects how people are perceived as well as affecting their opportunities in terms of romantic relationships, job opportunities, etc.\n\nPhysical attractiveness is associated with good things; in contrast, physical unattractiveness is associated with negative things. Many people make judgments of others based on their physical appearance that influence how they respond to those people. Research on the \"What is beautiful is good\" stereotype shows that, overall, those who are physically attractive benefit from their good looks: physically attractive individuals are perceived more positively and physical attractiveness has a strong influence on judgment of a person's competence. In return, physically attractive people benefit from these stereotypical beliefs. Research shows that on average, physically attractive individuals have more friends, better social skills, and more active sex lives. However, attractiveness does not have any effect on the level of happiness experienced by the individual.\n\nThough the term \"lookism\" is of recent coinage, cultures and traditions worldwide have often warned against placing undue value on physical appearance:\n\nTo judge by appearances is to get entangled in the Veil of Maya [in Buddhist thought] ... From ancient times until relatively recently, there was widespread worry about lookism, because the appearance of others may deceive, especially in romance, or it may be personally or politically imprudent to judge or act on appearances. Judging by appearances was prohibited by monotheistic religions (\"no graven images\") and criticized in ancient and medieval philosophies. Skeptics, Stoics, Cynics, Epicureans and Scholastics elaborated various reasons to avoid or subordinate the role of appearances.\n\nHowever, the term \"lookism\" was first coined in the 1970s within the fat acceptance movement. It was used in \"The Washington Post\" Magazine in 1978, which asserted that the term was coined by fat people who created the word to refer to \"discrimination based on looks.\" The word appears in several major English language dictionaries. There is some overlap between the terms teratophobia, cacophobia and lookism.\n\nLookism has received scholarly attention both from a cultural studies and an economics perspective. In the former context, lookism relates to preconceived notions of beauty and cultural stereotyping based on appearance as well as gender roles and expectations. Important economic considerations include the question of income gaps based on looks, as well as increased or decreased productivity from workers considered beautiful or ugly by their co-workers. Due to this, new problems arise that are tied to other social issues like racism and ageism (young over old). The idea of beauty is also linked directly to social class because people who have more free time and money have the ability to work on their appearance. Weight is also linked to social class because people who are overweight do not have the exercise equipment or the healthy food choices that wealthier people do. Judging people on the basis of attractiveness decreases a person's self-esteem leading to a negative self-image.\n\nSome writers have examined this phenomenon among gay men. According to the block quote on page 117 of a 2004 work by Todd Morrison, author Michelangelo Signorile (in a 1997 overview of contemporary trends in the gay male community) described \"body fascism\" asthe setting of a rigid set of standards of physical beauty that pressures everyone within a particular group to conform to them. Any person who doesn't meet those very specific standards is deemed physically unattractive and sexually undesirable. In a culture in which the physical body is held in such high esteem and given such power, body fascism then not only deems those who don't or can't conform to be sexually less desirable, but in the extreme – sometimes dubbed \"looksism\" – also deems an individual completely worthless \"as a person,\" based solely on his exterior. In this sense it is not unlike racism or sexism or homophobia itself. ... (p. 28)\n\nAccording to Nancy Etcoff, a psychologist at Massachusetts General Hospital, \"we face a world where lookism is one of the most pervasive but denied prejudices\". Referring to several studies, Angela Stalcup writes that \"The evidence clearly indicates that not only is there a premium for prettiness in Western culture, there is also penalty for plainness.\" When discrimination on the grounds of a person's appearance turns into fear or conveyed aversion, it is referred to as cacophobia. Sometimes cacophobia may be internalized and thus directed inwards rather than towards others.\n\nStudies on newborns have found that human infants as young as 14 hours from birth prefer to look at attractive faces rather than unattractive faces. The preference also extends to non-human animals such as cats. These findings indicate that lookism is an innate product of how the human visual system functions.\n\nResearch by Dan Ariely found that American women exhibit a marked preference for dating taller men, and that for shorter men to be judged attractive by women, they must earn substantially more money than taller men. \n\nIn the article \"Is Lookism Unjust\", Louis Tietje and Steven Cresap discuss when discrimination based on looks can legitimately be described as unjust. Tietje and Cresap quote evidence that suggests there exists \"a 7–to–9 percent 'penalty' for being in the lowest 9 percent of looks among all workers, and a 5 percent 'premium' for being in the top 33 percent\". While accepting that the evidence indicates that such discrimination does occur, the authors argue that it has been pervasive throughout history and that judgments of aesthetics appear to be a biological adaptation (rather than culturally conditioned) to aid reproduction, survival and social interaction, allowing people to determine viable mates (level of attractiveness being indicative of health) and the status of others as \"friend or enemy, threat or opportunity\". The authors also argue that if physical attractiveness can improve a company's success, then awarding people for it is justifiable, as the trait is thus relevant to the job and discrimination only occurs when irrelevant traits are used. In addition, the authors question the practicality of both redressing any injustices based on lookism and of determining whether such injustices have in fact occurred. Thus the authors conclude that there can be no clear model of injustice in such discrimination, nor would legislation to address it be practicable – \"We do not see how any policy interventions to redress beauty discrimination can be justified.\"\n\nLookism has been an issue in politics for centuries, with a long tradition in the United Kingdom of \"mercilessly exaggerat[ing]\" the physical flaws of politicians in newspaper cartoons. In the 1960 Presidential race between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon, it was often believed that Kennedy's more conventionally handsome appearance contributed to his winning more approval in their first televised debate, but some researchers have challenged this widespread idea and argued that Kennedy's appearance had little or no influence.\n\nThere are several variables that might contribute to the objectification of masculinity and femininity in politics. Scholar Charlotte Hooper argued that \"gender intersects with other social divisions such as class, race and sexuality to produce complex hierarchies of (gendered) identities\". Hooper argues that institutional practices, such as military combat in war, have greatly defined what it means to be a man. Furthermore, the symbolic dimension, which includes sports, media, current affairs, etc. has \"disseminate[d] a wealth of popular iconography which links Western masculinities to the wider world beyond the borders of the state\". This is where the ideology of lookism is firmly entrenched according to Hooper. Similarly, Laura Shepherd suggests that men are required to fit into the \"matrix of intelligibility\" by acting a certain way, dressing a certain way, and have a mentality that is devoid of emotion or anything effeminate; if they are successful in becoming the ultimate \"man's man\" then they are virtually untouchable. However, others have suggested that there is only an explicit interest in the analysis of masculinity within this political sphere, it will be impossible to develop a reliable analysis of femininity within this same sphere.\n\nDrawing examples from Madeleine Albright's TED talk in 2010, \"On Being a Woman and Diplomat\", Albright expressed her frustrations with how her male colleagues and media commentators would pick apart her appearance. Being the first female Secretary of State for the United States, Albright was in the spotlight on the domestic and international stage; everything from her age, weight, hairstyle and choice of dress were scrutinized; yet ironically, the policy positions she believed to be her most important accomplishments (initiation of the G7, attempts to promote gender equality, etc.) were hardly taken into account. The fact that Albright's general appearance didn't fit into the narrow category of \"attractive\" made it even more difficult for her to navigate the space between being a woman and a diplomat. Albright is not the only woman in a position of power, or otherwise, that has been discriminated against because of her appearance. An article published in \"The Washington Post\" in 2005 labeled Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, as a \"dominatrix\" when she stepped out in knee-high black-heeled boots during a visit to Wiesbaden Military Base in Germany. Although the article was meant to give credit to Rice for \"challeng[ing] expectations and assumptions\", some argue that the article gave her a hyper-sexualized image, and further removed the audience from focusing on the purpose of her visit to the military place. Similarly, media commentators have often chosen to report on Hillary Clinton's \"man suits\" and Julia Gillard's short hairstyle, instead of focusing on these women's professional accomplishments. Sarah Palin, former governor of Alaska and 2008 Republican Vice-Presidential candidate, was the subject of much media attention due to her conventionally attractive appearance, with Palin suggesting that the focus on her appearance ignored her professional and policy accomplishments.\n\nUntil the 1970s, lookism in the United States was sometimes codified into law. In many jurisdictions, so-called \"ugly laws\" barred people from appearing in public if they had diseases or disfigurements that were considered unsightly. Today, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission considers extreme obesity to be a disability protected by the Americans with Disabilities Act, and a few cities protect against discrimination based on appearance. Otherwise, there is no federal law protecting against discrimination based on physical appearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53141536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53141536", "title": "Massachusett phonology", "text": "Massachusett phonology\n\nThe phonology of the Massachusett language was re-introduced to the Mashpee, Aquinnah, Herring Pond and Assonet tribes that participate in the Wôpanâak Language Reclamation Project, co-founded by Jessie Little Doe Baird in 1993. The phonology is based regular sound changes that took place in the development of Proto-Eastern Algonquian from Proto-Algonquian, as well as cues in the colonial orthography regarding pronunciation, as the writing system was based on English pronunciation and spelling conventions in use at the time, keeping in mind differences in late seventeenth century English versus today. Other resources included information from extant Algonquian languages with native speakers.\n\nThe Massachusett language is an eastern branch Algonquian language within the Algic language family. It was historically spoken by the Massachusett people of Greater Boston, the Pawtucket of southernmost Maine, coastal New Hampshire and the lower Merrimack River watershed, the Wampanoag of southeastern Massachusetts but specifically Cape Cod and the Islands and portions of Rhode Island, the Nauset (possibly a Wampanoag sub-group) of the outer Cape and the Coweset of north-western Rhode Island, and likely spread as a common second language to many Nipmuc and Pennacook speaking groups. In a simplified Pidgin form, it was a common medium of intertribal communication across most of New England and Long Island.\n\nThe historical phonology of the language is hampered by the dormancy of the language with the death of the last speakers at the end of the nineteenth century as well as dialect leveling. Since the Bible and most of the missionary translations were based on the dialect of the Massachusett people, specifically its Natick variety, that form gained prestige. The use of Natick as a training center for Indian missionaries and teachers, who were literate and often drawn from Natick's local families, helped spread the prestige of the particular variety, so that most dialectal differences were quickly lost. Dialects certainly existed given the diversity of peoples that used it and its broad distribution.\n\nMassachusett vowels can be subdivided into two categories, the short vowels and and the long vowels , and —although is sometimes considered in its own category of nasal vowel. is technically a diphthong, and is particularly prevalent in inanimate intransitive verbs that translate as 'it is X.' PA *\"wapyawi\" > PEA *\"wa·pe·yɘw\" > PSNEA *\"wąpa·yɘw\" > Massachusett \"wompi\" (\"wôpay\") , ('it is white.')\n\nThe exact values and ranges for allophonic variation of the vowels is unknown, given the death of the last native speakers a century and a quarter in the past, but given that the colonial orthography was based on English values as spoken in the seventeenth century, some clues are provided. The short vowel before was often replaced by in colonial documents. Given that open front unrounded before was often syncopated, it is likely this allophone approached . Dialectal variation aside, it is likely that may have also backed to in some environments.\n\nThe long vowel was often written with in colonial documents before or , indicating it may have shortened to in these environments. A similar process also occurs in Abenakian languages. In the development of Massachusett, weakens to , which triggers k-palatization and vowel affection in certain environments.\n\nThe long vowel is written in a myriad of ways, which may just be the difficulty in rendering the vowel according to English spelling rules as used in the colonial orthography. It is likely that most instances were generally , but it most likely backed or .\n\nThe long, nasal vowel (possibly better represented by to indicate length in addition to nasality) may also frequently approach the mid-open nasal . Before , colonial writers used , possibly indicating an allophone before . The colonial orthography assigns vowels with a circumflex to write them, but this was not done consistently. A silent (before ) and (elsewhere) was often used to indicate nasality, but writers often confused usage of the circumflex, to mark nasality, and the acute accent, to mark stress and length. \nThe long vowel , represented in the colonial orthography by or and in the modern one, was often written with in the earliest colonial writings, suggesting a change from a mid-back vowel or close-mid vowel to a close-back , which can be reconstructed from development. For example, 'snake' is \"askꝏk\" (\"ask8k\") and descends from Proto-Algonquian *\"aθko·ka\" and Proto-Eastern Algonquian *\"axko·k\". Eliot created a letter represented in the modern Wampanoag script as to distinguish the long 'oo' from the short 'oo,' but noted that the vowel he was trying to represent was between the two. Just as , represented in Algonquian linguistics as , shifted to , a similar process occurred in English just a few generations before Eliot's time during the Great Vowel Shift, and both \"book\" and \"mood\" would have rhymed with the current pronunciations of \"poke\" and \"mode\"; even in the Early Modern English of Eliot's time, the distinction between \"mood\" and \"book\" shared the same vowel.\n\nMassachusett has thirteen consonant phonemes, not including possible allophones. They are divided into the affricate ; stop and the voiceless alveolo-palatal stop ; the voiceless affricates , and and the voiced continuants, which comprises the voiced nasal and and the voiced approximants and . The stop consonants were particularly difficult for early English missionaries to record with the Latin alphabet because Massachusett did not make phonemic distinctions of voicing with these consonants, and these consonants likely had voiced allophones of , dependent upon word environment, dialect, or speaker. In addition, Massachusett consonants probably lacked distinctions based on aspiration for these consonants. In English, the equivalent stop consonants are aspirated in stressed and in final positions, but not in consonant clusters after (for example, English \"spin\" is pronounced while \"pin\" is pronounced ).\n\nAs a result of these differing phonologies, the colonial orthography can be separated into unvoiced/voiced pairs that do not change meaning, such as , /, /, /, / and /, which correspond to , , , and , respectively, in the modern orthography. Eliot and the other colonial missionaries often switched between the unvoiced-voiced pairs, and it is possible that the consonants themselves had allophones dependent on word position and dialect.\n\nThe phonetic value of in clusters probably approached , given the alteration of and and and in representation in the colonial orthography. As and had merged in Proto-Southern New England Algonquian, restoration of in consonants, especially in clusters with , indicates that the allophone of in these environments was generally , which sounds closer to and generally represented by in the WLRP new orthography.\n\nAs a result of borrowings, English-language religious, technical, agricultural, legal, societal, cultural, and governmental terminology was adopted by the Indians. Foreign sounds, or recognition of the preferred allophone, led to the adoption of and as phonemes in these English loanwords. However, it is likely that only bilingual speakers or those exposed to English speakers pronounced these words more akin to their English values, whereas monolingual Massachusett speakers and those further from English contact would have likely used native approximantions. For example, colonial-era documents include both preserved \"Frenchmenog\" (possibly ) vs. nativized \"panachmanog\" (possibly ). In addition, anecdotal evidence from accounts of English colonists indicate that the Massachusett or related N-dialect speakers had trouble with English and , even though they existed in related languages, since they pronounced English words \"sleep\" and \"lobster\" as \"sneep\" and \"nobstah\". However, final goes unnoticed as English in New England developed non-rhotically.\n\nAlthough the revived dialect of the Wampanoag continues to use some loan words from English (such as \"pâyum-\", from English \"pay\"), most borrowings are eschewed for native equivalents, neologisms coined from known Massachusett radicals and adoption of terms from cognate, extant Algonquian languages since the new speakers of the language are all bilingual or more proficient in English. For example, the colonial-era Indians adopted the English calendrical system, and adopted all the terms for units of time and names for the days and months. Thus, 'Thursday' and as well as its alternate Early Modern English form \"Y\" existed along the lesser-used Massachusett coinage \"nappanatashikquinishonk\" (\"nôpanatahshuquneehshôk\") , which can be translated as 'that which goes five days long' (after the [original] Sabbath). However, \"nappanatashikquinishonk\" is created from Massachusett radicals by the Indians, even if it referred to a Western cultural introduction.\n\nFew consonant clusters, especially in relation to Proto-Eastern Algonquian and Proto-Algonquian, are permitted in the Massachusett language; however, syncopation, i.e., deletion of , or when they fall in weak or weaker stress positions in a word, increased the number of possible clusters in the rare Massachusett dialects that employed it. Clusters also tend to occur at the end of a root word before a following suffix, often restoring etymological /ʷ/ and /ʲ/ or even entire syllables, which were dropped at the end of consonants as early as Proto-Eastern Algonquian, but are common enough that they have to be learned. For example, \"annum\" (\"anum\", 'dog,') but \"annúmmwag\" (\"anumwak\", , 'dogs') Also, additional morphemes attached to the root word often begin with consonants themselves, thus increasing their likelihood at these junctures.\n\nMassachusett uses and . In the rare dialects that permitted syncopation, combinations such as and have been recorded in the literature, although some examples from translations of the Book of Psalms that were intended to be sung were forcibly altered to fit the meter of the music. The Massachusett word, \"wussuhquohhonk\" (\"wusuhqahôk\" , 'writing' or 'book') was altered to \"wussukwhonk\" (*\"wusuhqhôk\" ), yielding a cluster .\n\nStress in the language is unknown, but Massachusett likely had a stress system similar to extant languages, such as Ojibwe, Algonquin, M'ikmaq, Munsee and Unami. In Ojibwe, the rule is as follows: A metrical foot consists of two syllables, ideally with the stress on the second syllable. All long vowels are stressed, and when they occur in the weaker syllable of a metrical foot, the syllable that contains them is counted as its own foot and counting begins on the next syllable pair, and the last syllable is always stressed.\n\nIn M'ikmaq, Unami and Munsee, languages that are more closely related to Massachusett, the rules are a little more complex. In these languages, metrical feet consist of two syllables or morae, forming either strong right-foot iambs or strong left-foot trochees. Primary stress generally falls on either the rightmost (iambic) or leftmost (trochaic) syllables, but there are numerous exceptions. Unlike the Ojibwe system, these Eastern Algonquian languages allow for word-final unstressed syllables. Long vowels tend to be stressed, but may be shortened when long vowels fall in the weaker position. Long vowels and short syllables in the strong part of the foot receive secondary stress. Stressed words, especially the primary stress, are pronounced louder and at a higher pitch, with secondary stress the effects less so. Because Massachusett, generally, does not undergo vowel syncope, weak vowels can receive secondary stress and entire words can consist of weak, short vowel syllables as in Mi'kmaq and Unami.\n\n\nA is inserted before vowels that follow or , only when these consonants in turn come after the vowels or This is written with a single in both the colonial and modern orthographies of the Massachusett language. This is not triggered in every instance, but it generally occurs when the short vowel is the weakened form of Proto-Algonquian *\"i·\" and *\"i\" (both of which merged into Proto-Eastern Alqonquian *\"i\" before weakening in Proto-Southern New England Algonquian) or which did not undergo weakening.\n\n\nUnique to Southern New England Alonquian, the same processes that trigger vowel affection also bring about palatization. When is followed by an that is etymologically a weakened form of PEA *\"ī\", which is in turn followed by either or , the consonant shifts to . Palatization is also triggered when is followed by , which derives from PEA *\"ē\", and , which remains unchanged from PEA *\"əw\". The palatization of followed by is common, but in Massachusett, is often restored before and by analogy to prevent excessive alteration of forms. In the colonial orthography, this was represented by , , , , , , or simply before . In the modern orthography, represents , the palatization of , and represents followed by the of the following affected vowel, or + [vowel]; this has the same pronunciation, but is distinguished for etymological reasons.\n\n\nThe most ancient reconstructed ancestor of the Massachusett language is Proto-Algic, believed to have been spoken circa 5000 BC in what is now the Northwest Plateau region, such as the inland regions of the Pacific Northwest along the Columbia River separated from the coast by rugged mountains. Movements of people and competition for resources, shifts to other languages that developed or arrived in the region pushed the Algic languages out of their original homeland. The only known non-Algonquian Algic languages are Yurokan and Wiyotan, known only from the current languages Yurok and Wiyot, which despite sharing cultural similarities and inhabiting adjacent areas of the northernmost coastal area of California, their languages are relics of a historically more widespread group of languages which diverged in the very distant past.\n\nFrom an unknown Algic ancestor, Proto-Algonquian emerged sometime around 1000 BC, posited to have been spoken anywhere from the foothills of the Rocky Mountains of Montana or an area just west of the Great Lakes. The Algonquian languages spread, covering southern Canada and the northern half of the United States from the Rocky Mountains to the Atlantic Ocean. Around 1000 AD, Proto-Eastern Algonquian emerged, probably somewhere in southern Ontario about the Great Lakes region, and spread from the Maritimes to the Carolinas and separated by speakers of Iroquoian languages. The Eastern languages, which are the only genetic grouping to have emerged from Algonquian, can be further differentiated.\n\nProto-Eastern Algonquian had a daughter language, Proto-Southern New England Algonquian, which is the ancestor of all the languages of southern New England and most of Long Island. This includes related languages such as Nipmuc, Mohegan-Pequot, Niantic, Narragansett and Quiripi-Naugatuck. The timeline for the development of PSNEA is unclear, but it might be linked to the local adoption of corn, beans and squash agriculture slowly introduced from the south. When Massachusett as a spoke language is unclear, but by the 1400s, cultural practices and peoples would probably be recognizable to the Pilgrims and Puritans that encountered their descendants two centuries later.\n\nThe most striking feature in the development of Proto-Eastern Algonquian was the collapse of PA *\"θ\" and *\"l\" into PEA *\"r\". As a result, reconstructed PA *\"aθemwa\" ('dog') and *\"*e·likwa\" ('ant') become PEA *\"arəm\" and *\"e·ri·kw\", respectively. This is in contrast to Arapaho \"heθ\" (\"he3\", 'dog'), which preserves PA *\"θ\" and the 'Illu' dialects of western Montagnais (Innu) \"eylig\" and the 'Irru' dialect of the Atikamekw \"eyrig\" (since PA *\"l\" was most likely realized as in most Algonquian languages, or a fricative that was somewhere between and ). Note that PSNEA inherited *\"arəm\" unaltered, but either reduplication or an unknown prefix, PA *\"e·ri·kw\" yields Massachusett \"anuneks\" or \"annuncks\" (possibly * with diminutive suffix) instead of expected PSNEA *\"a·nəkw\".\n\nIn consonant clusters, however, PA *\"θ\" and *\"l\" behave very differently. Proto-Algonquian *C\"θ\" generally yields *C\"x\", save PA *\"nθ\" which develops into PEA *\"hr\". In clusters of PA *\"θ\"C, most merge into PEA *\"s\"C with the exception of PA *\"θp\" which is realized as PEA *\"šp\". Very few PA clusters of *C\"l\" are permitted. The development of PA *\"ˀl\" to PEA *\"hr\" is expected, but PA *\"hl\" falls into PEA *\"hx\" and PA *\"nl\" is even more erratic. Under normal development, *\"nl\" would yield PEA *\"hr\", but it morphs into *\"h\" in transitive inanimate singular imperatives. Furthermore, PA *\"ˀl\", *\"nl\" and *\"nθ\" > PEA *\"hr\", *\"PA *\"hl\", *\"hθ\" and *\"ˀθ\" > PEA *hx\".\n\nOther general mergers include the collapse of PA *\"h\"C and *\"ˀ\"C into PEA *\"h\"C. For example, PA *\"ht\" and *\"ˀt\" > PEA **\"ht\" and PA *\"ht\", PA *\"hp\" and *\"ˀp\" > PEA **\"hp\" and *\"hč\" and *\"ˀč\" > PEA **\"hč\". With the exception of *\"nl\" and *\"nθ\", all instances of PA *\"n\"C are retained in PEA. Proto-Algonquian *\"ç\" develops into *\"r\" in PEA even in clusters. PA *\"č\" before *\"p\" and *\"k\" altered to PEA *\"š\" and *\"s\", respectively. Also, PA *\"x\" and *\"s\" merge into PEA *\"s\". Proto-Eastern Algonquian also prefers to drop PA *\"w\" and *\"y\" after consonants and clusters in PEA, but these are often restored by analogy when there are inflectional endings. For example, PA *\"maθkwa\" > PEA *\"maxk\" > PSNEA *\"mask\" > Massachusett \"mosk\" (\"masq\") , but Massachusett \"mosgquak\" (\"masqash\") .\n\nIn the development of Proto-Southern New England Algonquian, several notable developments take place, especially in regards to PEA *\"r\". In PEA, all instances of *\"r\" that descend from PA *\"ç\" must have been unstable or had a unique treatment in PEA as they all shifted to PSNEA *\"s\", e.g., PA *\"ç\" > PEA *\"r\" > PSNEA *\"s\", PA *\"çk\" > PEA *\"rk\" > PSNEA *\"sk\" and PA *\"çp\" > PEA *\"rp\" > PSNEA *\"sp\". Clusters from PEA with *\"r\" also show the same instability. Whereas PEA *\"r yields PSNEA *\"r\", in final positions, it becomes PSNEA *\"š\", most noticeable in treatments of inanimate plurals. For example, PA *\"meçkw-\" > PEA *\"mərkw-\" > PSNEA *\"məskw-\" > Massachusett \"musqu\" (\"mushq-\"), 'red.' But also PA *\"mehθo·θši\" > PEA *\"məhxo·r\" > PSNEA *\"məhšo·r\" > Massachusett \"mishoon\" (\"muhsh8n\") .\n\nIn a similar vein, PEA *\"hr\", *\"hš\" and *\"hx all merge into PSNEA *\"hš\". As a result of these mergers, the sound of was preserved in PSNEA, since PEA *\"s\" and *\"š\" merge in PSNEA as *\"s\". Even PEA *\"nš\" and *\"šp\" yield PSNEA *\"s\" and *\"sp\", respectively. For example, PA *\"le·hle-\" > PEA *\"re·hxe-\" > PSNEA *\"ra·hš\" > Massachusett \"náhsh-\" (\"nâhsh-\") and PEA *\"wi·nkwe·hre·w\" > PSNEA *\"wi·kwahš\" > Massachusett \"wégquosh\" (\"weeqahsh\") \n\nA major development is the palatization of PEA *\"k\". As described in other sections, this causes a shift to PSNEA *\"ty\" in restrictive environments. For example, PA *\"kakakiwa\" > PEA *\"kakakiw\" > PSNEA *\"kąkąntyəw\" > Massachusett \"kôkontu\" (\"kôkôtyuw\") , 'crow.' Furthermore, PEA *\"sk\" undergoes palatization to PSNEA *\"hč\". For example, PA *\"niswineθke·k\" > PEA *\"ni·sinǝxke·k\" (northern PEA *\"ni·sinǝške·k\" and possibly even *\"ni·sinǝske·k\" in New England PEA) > PSNEA *\"ni·sǝnǝhča·k\" > Massachusett \"nesnehchag\" (\"neesnuhchâk\") , 'twenty' (literally 'two [pairs of] hands'). Otherwise, the typical development of PA *\"θk\" is PSNEA *\"sk\".\n\nIn the development of Massachusett from PSNEA, a few noticeable differences arise. Mainly, PSNEA *\"r\" is in Massachusett dialects, but within the SNEA languages, there are varieties that have replaced PSNEA *\"r\" with (Nipmuc), (Niantic), (some Narragansett dialects) or retained historical (Quiripi). For instance, PSNEA *\"arəm\" ('dog') was Massachusett \"anum\", Narragansett \"ayimp\", Nipmuc \"alum\", and Quiripi \"arum\". Massachusett preserves final PEA *\"r\" as and the general merger of PSNEA merger of *\"s\" and *\"š\", but re-appears as an allophone of , probably due to the influence of emerging and in other environments, but the alteration may have varied by dialect or perhaps imparted some unknown semantic meaning.\n\nThe instability of PA *\"nl\" is also preserved. While it tends to follow that it evolves into PEA *\"hr\" and then it should yield PSNEA *\"hš\", however, it seems to have, in certain words, evolved into PEA *\"r\" or *\"h\", especially in transitive inanimate second person imperative verbs but appears in Massachusett as or (and not ), however, words in this category seem to have been altered by analogy to other words, such as PA *\"no·nle·waki\" > PEA *\"no·hre·wak\" > PSNEA *\"no·ra·wak\" > Massachusett \"nꝏnáog\" (\"n8nâwak\" , 'she suckles them' or 'she nurses them') or appears as or .\n\nThe vowels of Proto-Algonquian were very symmetric, comprising short vowels *\"a\", *\"e\", *\"i\" and *\"o\" followed by their long counterparts *\"a·\", *\"e·\", *\"i·\" and *\"o·\". These remained relatively intact in some of the Central Algonquian languages, but were radically restructured in most of the Plains Algonquian languages and Eastern Algonquian languages.\n\nBoth PA *\"i\" and *\"o\" are lost and merge into their long counterparts in PEA, e.g., PA *\"i\" and *\"i·\" > PEA *\"i·\" and PA *\"o\" and *\"o·\" > PEA *\"o·\". Proto-Algonquian *\"e\" alters to PEA *\"ə\" but PA *\"a\", *\"a·\" and *\"e·\" remain unchanged. This left PEA Algonquian with two short vowels *\"a\" and *\"ə\" and four long vowels *\"a·\", *\"e·\", *\"i·\" and *\"o·\".\n\nProto-Southern New England Algonquian kept the PEA vowels *\"a\", *\"ə\" and *\"o·\" unaltered. Proto-Eastern Algonquian *\"e·\" shifted to PSNEA *\"a·\". However, PEA *\"a·\" was lost, instead it was altered to the PSNEA nasal vowel *\"ą\". Although this appears to be diagnostic of the SNEA languages, the intrusive nasal is possibly a feature shared with Algonquian. The PEA long vowel *\"i·\" underwent some alteration. When not in the initial syllable of a word, and probably in an unstressed position often shortened to PSNEA *\"ə\", a process that may also trigger vowel affection and palatization.\n\nThe vowel inventory of PSNEA *\"a\", *\"a·\", *\"ą\", *\"ə\", *\"i·\" (which are equivalent to their Massachusett phonological representation and , respectively) is retained, but PSNEA *\"o·\" becomes *\"uː\" or . This is reflected by the double-o ligature or the digraph in the colonial-era documents and in the modern orthography implemented by the WLRP. Eliot claimed that the double o ligature was pronounced like English \"book\" and \"mood\", both of which were also pronounced before shifting to , but the word \"book\" was probably still pronounced closer to than current in Eliot's time, as the effects of the Great Vowel Shift in English were still going on, and may reflect Eliot's use of in his earliest Massachusett writings, whereas the majority use . Eliot also used for what has been reconstructed as , especially word-medial or word-final positions, and or word initially. However, in the modern orthography, is only used for what can be traced back to developments from Proto-Algonquian *\"o·\".\n"}
{"id": "15396440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15396440", "title": "Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week", "text": "Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week\n\nMercedes-Benz Fashion Week was a series of international fashion weeks sponsored by Mercedes-Benz and produced by IMG. Designers featured during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week include notable designers such as Rosenthal Tee.\n\nNotable Mercedes-Benz Fashion Weeks include events in Berlin, Australia, Georgia, Miami, Russia, Istanbul, Mexico, and \"Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week New York,\" is held during New York Fashion Week. Precious Moloi-Motsepe organises the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in Johannesburg and Cape Town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51198436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51198436", "title": "Ministry of Education (Somalia)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Somalia)\n\nThe Ministry of Education of Somalia () () is a ministry responsible for education in Somalia. The current Minister of Education of Somalia is Abdirahman Dahir Osman.\n\nMinistry of Education & Culture was the ministry that was responsible for education and culture in Somalia. The ministry has ten departments. On 17 January 2014, newly appointed Prime Minister of Somalia, Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed split the ministerial portfolio into Ministry of Education and Ministry of Culture and Higher Education, respectively.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1703132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703132", "title": "Na`at", "text": "Na`at\n\nNa'at () refers to poetry in praise of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. The practice is popular in South Asia (Bangladesh, Pakistan and India), commonly in Pashto, Bengali, Urdu or Punjabi language. People who recite Na'at are known as \"Na'at Khawan\" or \"sana'a-khua'an\". Exclusive \"Praise to God\" and God alone is called Hamd, not to be confused with 'Na'at', which contains \"praise to The Prophet Muhammad\". In Arab countries, lyrics and praises said for the Muhammad are called Madih nabawi.\n\nIt is difficult to trace the history of Na'at khawani since no authenticated record of when it was initiated can be found. One early author, Hassan, was known as \"Shair-e-Darbaar-e-Risalat\". Even before accepting Islam he was a poet, but after embracing Islam he gave a new turn to his poetry and started writing Na'ats in honor of Muhammad. He was famous for his poetry that defended Muhammad in response to rival poets who attacked him and his religion. Therefore, Hassan is known as the first \"sana-khawaan\" (na'at reciter) of that time. After that many a poet followed this trend and totally dedicated themselves towards writing of na'ats.\n\nTala' al Badru 'Alayna, a song sung to Muhammad during his completion of migration to Medina in 622 CE, is believed to be one of the earliest na'ats.\n\nCommonly the term \"Na'at-Shareef\" (exalted poetry) is reserved and used for poetry in the praise of Muhammad written in Pashto, Bengali, Urdu, English, Turkish, Persian, Arabic, Punjabi, Sindhi & Kashmiri.\n\nIn Arabic, Na'at is usually called \"madih\" (praise) or \"Nasheed\" (poetry), although the latter can describe any type of religious poetry.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20670561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20670561", "title": "No nit policy", "text": "No nit policy\n\nNo nit policy is a treatment system recommended by health authorities in Canada and Australia to assist in the elimination of head lice infestation. The \"no nit\" policy requires the sending home and barring of all children who have head lice, eggs and/or nits on their hair from controlled settings such as school, summer camp or day care facilities. The CDC, American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and the National Association of School Nurses (NASN) advocate that \"no-nit\" policies should be discontinued, due in part because nits, the eggs or empty egg shells, are not transmissible and the burden of unnecessary absenteeism to the students, families and communities far outweighs the risks associated with head lice.\n\nThe no nit policy involves a number of issues, such as the circumstances under which children will be inspected, the criteria to infer infestation, the procedures for dealing with infested children upon discovery, and the criteria to permit previously infested children to return to school. These issues are controversial. In particular, a number of health researchers and organizations object to the required removal of nits. Opponents to the no-nit policy point out that nits, being empty eggshells, have no clinical importance. Time-consuming nit removal, therefore, has no direct effect on transmission. This has led to the perception that the no-nit policy serves only to ease the workload of school nurses. Proponents of the no-nit policy counter that only a consistently nit-free child can be reliably shown to be infestation-free. That is, the presence of nits serves as a proxy for infestation status. Proponents argue that such a proxy is necessary because lice screening is prone to false negative conclusions (i.e., failure to find lice present on actively infested children).\n\nContributing to the controversial nature of school head lice policies is a lack of available data on their importance and efficacy. For example, , the transmissibility of head lice in school settings is largely unknown. Further, control-matched studies of the effect of specific school policies on head lice incidence are also lacking.\n\nSchools in developed countries such as the United States, Canada, and Australia commonly exclude infested students, and prevent return of those students until all lice, eggs, and nits are removed. Policies in the United Kingdom extend to legal action against parents of infested students. Attitudes in developing countries are often quite different. Many societies consider head louse infestation to be normal, if even remarked upon at all.\n\nA 1991 survey of American nurses reported that 27% have regular inspection programs in place at their schools. 85% reported inspection on an \"as-needed\" basis. Routine inspection of children is advocated by a variety of nurses, researchers, organizations, and governments.\n\nHead lice cannot live more than a day or two away from a host. Any remaining eggs will hatch in one to two weeks, and absent a host, the emerging nymphs will die within hours. Thus, simply leaving the school vacant for a week or two is sufficient to disinfect all fomite sources of head louse infection. The return of children to this now-clean environment is an ideal time to check for infestations and attempt to keep the environment lice-free. The California Department of Public Health encourages inspections to be performed on Fridays.\n\nSome health researchers oppose regular inspections. This opposition to school inspections coincides with opposition to no-nit policies, and is based on similar reasoning (i.e., that they are ineffective).\n\nLice infestation is not a reportable disease, so data on head lice incidence are sparse. , no control-matched study exists on the effect of school screening programs on head lice prevalence. Further, although some authors note a stubborn prevalence of head lice during the latter half of the 20th century, this has occurred in an environment of rather lax screening efforts. For example, a 1991 survey of American nurses reported that only 27% had regular screening programs in place at their schools. Anecdotal evidence suggests that school screening programs \"can\" reduce head lice prevalence. Certainly, the effectiveness of these programs must be determined before their \"cost effectiveness\" can be evaluated.\n\nBarbara Frankowski, a critic of school screenings, argues that time spent screening children by school nurses is better spent on other tasks. This attitude reflects those held by some American school nurses themselves, 27% of whom believe that eliminating lice infestations in \"not\" an important role of school nursing. Even more telling, only 11% of American school nurses find treating head lice to be professionally gratifying. Similar attitudes exist among Canadian school nurses.\n\nSchool inspections are often short—about one minute per child. Frankowski argues that such inspections are not thorough enough to be accurate, and so may lead to a false sense of security. Indeed, a 1998 study of Israeli children found that live lice took an average of 57 – 116 seconds to detect depending on the technique used. L. Keoki Williams and others acknowledge this shortcoming of school screening, and suggest that children found to have nits undergo an additional 5- to 10-minute examination to exclude the presence of live lice. In contrast, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) argues not for increased inspection time, but elimination of the school screenings altogether, with parents being educated and encouraged to inspect their own children at home. This attitude, coupled with the AAP's opposition to the no-nit policy, would essentially absolve school administrators of responsibility to directly manage pediculosis in their student body.\n\nA nit is the egg of a louse. They are white, resembling dandruff, 0.8 mm long, cement to the hair base where they are difficult to remove, and may survive for three weeks away from the host.\n\nOnly the presence of live crawling lice (nymph or imago) constitutes an infestation. Much of the controversy surrounding school head lice policy centers on the question of what to do with children discovered to have nits, but no visible lice. Indeed, one-third to three-fourths of children with nits fall into this category. The nits-only population therefore represents a significant fraction of children potentially subject to school exclusion and/or treatment with insecticides. Such children have evidence of infestation (i.e., the nits), but the infestation may be extinct.\n\nUnfortunately, false negative conclusions (i.e., failing to find lice that are, in fact, present) regarding infestation have long been recognized as a problem in head lice diagnosis. Depending on the methods used, live lice can be easily missed during inspection. For example, a 1998 Israeli study found that 76% of live lice infestations were missed by visual inspection (as verified by subsequent combing methods). Although lice cannot fly or jump, they are fast and agile in their native environment (i.e., clinging to hairs near the warmth of the scalp), and will try to avoid the light used during inspection. Lice populations are also sparse, which can contribute to difficulty in finding live specimens. Two-thirds of infestations are composed of 10 or fewer individual lice. Further, lice populations consist predominantly (80%-90%) of immature nymphs, which are even smaller and harder to detect than adult lice.\n\nThese difficulties have, at times, lead to the recommendation that the presence of nits alone be used to infer infestation:\n\nA 1998 American study attempted to clarify the infestation risk associated with a \"nits-only\" diagnosis. They found that 18% of children with nits (but no apparent lice) became infested (i.e., lice appeared) 14 days later. Whether these new lice came from viable eggs or via transmission from other hosts was not clear. Transmission from other hosts would tend to overestimate the infestation risk associated with nits. In addition, some children were treated with pediculicides during this 14-day period. Successful treatments (i.e., killing eggs or recently hatched nymphs) would tend to underestimate the infestation risk associated with nits. These limitations of the study notwithstanding, the authors concluded:\n\nAlthough \"nits-only\" children are unlikely to become infested, this is not to say that a nit-free population is without value. Much of the difficulty in accurately diagnosing head lice stems from the possibility that observed nits are due to an extinct infestation. However, if a policy of required nit removal is enforced, this is no longer an issue. Against a background of nit-free children, spotting new infestations through routine screening becomes as easy as spotting the nits. This ease in screening comes at a price, though, namely the effort expended (typically by parents) in removing nits. And to the extent that no-nit policies result in absenteeism, the child's education suffers, and the school's funding (e.g., from government sources) may be reduced.\n\nDiscovery of infested students typically occurs during a school day. Assuming the presence of live lice is the criteria used to infer infestation, an ethical dilemma is presented to school nurses and administrators. Should this student, now known to be infectious, be returned to class where transmission to other students could occur? Or alternatively, should the student be immediately removed from the group setting? Schools have very limited capacity to individually supervise students outside of the classroom, so removal from the classroom means requesting that the child's parents pick up their child.\n\nParents often become upset when the school nurse telephones their place of employment to inform them of their child's infestation and to request they come and collect their child. Nonetheless, immediate exclusion policies are explicitly advocated by some nurses. A 1998 survey revealed that almost all (96%) American school nurses send home infested students upon discovery.\n\nOpponents to immediate exclusion policies point out that the discovery of infestation is merely recognition of what has been an infectious condition for a number of months. Given that context, they argue, one more day of group contact is unlikely to result in more transmission than has already occurred. This contrasts with more short-term and highly communicable viral diseases such as chickenpox, influenza, or measles where immediate exclusion might reasonably reduce disease spread within the school.\n\nThe value of immediate exclusion for lice depends to some extent on the frequency of asymptomatic screening at the school. More frequent screening would tend to decrease the average time between infestation and discovery of that infestation. This would make the one day associated with immediate exclusion a more significant fraction of the total time the student was infectious. But even ardent supporters of asymptomatic screening do not advocate screenings more than once every three months. This suggests that the effect of immediate exclusion might be an exposure time reduction of as little as 1.6%, even under strict screening guidelines.\n\nThese changing attitudes on immediate exclusion appear to be affecting public policy. For example, in Australia, the National Health and Medical Research Council states that infested children need not be sent home upon discovery. Similarly, the California Department of Public Health advocates a head lice policy that does not immediately exclude infested children.\n\nEvaluating immediate exclusion policies is difficult, because the communicability of head lice in school settings has not been carefully studied. This has not, however, prevented authors from confidently asserting their opinion:\n\nTwo studies have noted clustering of head louse infestation by classroom. However, the authors differ in their interpretation of this clustering. In 1997, Richard Speare and Petra Buettner noted prevalence ranges of 0% to 72.2% across classrooms in the same grade (3rd) and in the same Australian school. This led them to favor the idea that \"opportunities for transmission are prominent within the classroom\". Indeed, their data suggest that classrooms synchronize in terms of infestation status.\n\nIn contrast, Janis Hootman suggests that school communicability is low. In 1998 she found that infestations within American classrooms were restricted to a minority of chronically infested students. Hootman concluded that the infested students have access to an infectious source that their classmates do not. Similarly, she found that clusters of pediculosis within classrooms were associated with social interactions outside school (e.g., sleepovers). This indicates that transmission can occur between classmates, but again, these transmission events may be occurring away from school grounds.\n\nAfter identifying and isolating an infested student, school policy typically requires some sort of verification that the student is no longer infectious before being readmitted to the school. Typically, this involves inspecting the child for evidence of continued infestation (see Criteria to infer infestation above). Schools commonly enforce either a \"no-nit\" policy or a \"no-lice\" policy.\n\nThe consensus has been changed more recently and the \"\"no-nit\" policy is considered worse than the nits themselves to a child's education and family burden the missed days cause. The EPA, CDC, and NASN all agree \"no-nit\" policies should be done away with and that kids should remain in school the entire day even if lice is found and notify the parents so they can treat it at home.\nNo-nit policies bar readmission of students found to have lice, eggs, or nits. This policy is popular with health authorities in the United States, Canada, and Australia. A 1998 survey revealed that a majority (61%) of American school nurses prevent return of treated students to school if they are not (also) nit-free. A similar percentage (60%) felt that \"forced absenteeism of any child who has any nits in their hair is a good idea.\" Data from a primarily American study during 1998–1999 revealed even higher prevalence—no-nit policies were present at 82% of the schools attended by children suspected of louse infestation.\n\nJames H. Price and colleagues estimate that infested students lose two to four days of school for treatment and nit removal. Based on their 1998 survey of American school nurses, they estimate that approximately 6 million U.S. children lose 12 to 24 million child-schooldays annually due to lice infestation under no-nit policies.\n\nAlthough the no-nit policy has the appearance of a simple and popular tool against pediculosis transmission, its implementation has been opposed by a number of health researchers and organizations. Opponents argue that enforcement of no-nit policies has not significantly reduced head lice incidence in school settings, and that the risks and disadvantages of the no-nit policies outweigh their associated benefits.\n\nAs is the case in assessing school screening efforts (see Screening above), assessing the effectiveness of no-nit policies is complicated by the sparseness of head lice prevalence data. To the extent that no-nit policies increase the efficiency of school screening programs (see Benefits of nit-free population above), no-nit policies may lead to more rapid containment of head lice outbreaks. However, , the correlation between no-nit policies and head lice incidence has not been examined.\n\nKosta Y. Mumcuoglu and colleagues indict required nit removal policies as an attempt to minimize the effort expended by school nurses on differentiating active and extinct infestations. They further argue that this minimization comes at the expense of excessive efforts on the part of parents to remove signs of previous infestations (i.e., the nits), which have no clinical importance.\n\nThe difficulty parents face in advocating more lax attitudes towards children with nits, is that the parents have no concomitant guarantee from school administrators that those admitted children will truly be lice-free. Indeed, admitting children with nits \"increases\" the difficulty in identifying actively infested students (see Criteria to infer infestation above). In contrast to diseases such as measles or influenza, pediculosis does not inherently prevent school attendance. The financial incentive for schools, therefore, is to minimize expenditures on lice control and screening programs because (absent a no-nit policy) they have little effect on attendance. This is a formula for maximizing lice infestation within the student body, not minimizing it. Thus, while the no-nit policy may be seen as off-loading school nurse responsibilities to parents, it is perhaps more correctly viewed as imposing parental priorities on school administrators.\n\nIn the absence of such policies, school and parental priorities with respect to lice are inherently at odds. The parents wish to minimize lice transmission. In contrast, schools wish to maximize attendance, which is largely unaffected by lice transmission. Barring return of children until nits are removed has the effect of transforming the pediculosis \"problem\" for which schools have no inherent incentive to solve, into an attendance \"problem\" for which schools have a direct financial interest. Unfortunately, the solution advocated by many to this attendance \"problem\" is to simply remove the no-nit policy, leaving the inherent conflict between parents and school administrators unaddressed.\n\nThe no-lice policy bars readmission of students with crawling lice, but are indifferent to the presence of eggs and nits. These policies are advocated by a number of government agencies, but , no data on the overall prevalence of no-lice policies exists. In Australia, the National Health and Medical Research Council states that treated children can return with nits so long as they are lice-free. Similarly, the California Department of Public Health advocates a policy that permits students to return to school with nits.\n"}
{"id": "1082108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082108", "title": "Non-rigid designator", "text": "Non-rigid designator\n\nIn the philosophy of language and modal logic, a term is said to be a non-rigid designator (or flaccid designator) or connotative term if it does not extensionally designate (denote, refer to) the same object in all possible worlds. This is in contrast to a rigid designator, which does designate the same object in all possible worlds in which that object exists, and does not designate anything else in those worlds in which that object does \"not\" exist. The term was coined by Saul Kripke in his 1970 lecture series at Princeton University, later published as the book \"Naming and Necessity\".\n\nAs an example, consider the phrase \"The 43rd President of the United States of America\": while the 43rd President of the United States is \"actually\" George W. Bush, things might have been different. Bush might have lost the election, meaning that the 43rd President might have been Al Gore or Ralph Nader instead. (\"How remote\" these possible worlds are from the actual world is a discussion for physics and counterfactualism.) \"The 43rd President of the United States of America\" is thus a non-rigid designator, picking out George W. Bush in some possible worlds, Al Gore in others, and yet other people in other worlds.\n\nNon-rigid designators are defined by contrast with Kripke's notion of a rigid designator, which picks out the same thing uniquely in \"every\" possible world; while there are possible worlds in which the 43rd President of the United States is Al Gore instead of George W. Bush, there are \"no\" possible worlds where \"George W. Bush\" is anyone other than the man who, in fact, he is. (There \"are\" worlds where some person other than George W. Bush is \"named\" \"George W. Bush,\" but that's neither here nor there.) Kripke uses this apparent asymmetry to argue (in \"Naming and Necessity\") that no definite description can be the meaning of a proper name, because names must always be rigid designators, while definite descriptions can designate non-rigidly.\n\nSome philosophers, such as Gareth Evans, have expressed doubt as to whether non-rigid expressions ought to be called \"designators\" at all.\n"}
{"id": "43151308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43151308", "title": "Online social movement", "text": "Online social movement\n\nOnline communities build off social movements, enabling the connection of persons worldwide to develop a base and gain awareness to the cause. Online social movements gained momentum in the late 20th century and early 21st century as new generations sought social change. With access to the internet and the fast growing World Wide Web, online social movements brought awareness to issues both political and social. Online social movements have been praised and criticized; the former for its ability to raise awareness to important causes, and the latter for its ability to perpetuate problems like slacktivism. Although online activism has received criticism, it has had real impacts on social movements.\n\nThe impact of online movements has been substantial since the introduction of the internet. With the ever-growing medium of social media, internet activism has reached the forefront of the internet. Through the use of social networking sites as Facebook and content-sharing sites as YouTube, the opportunity for wide-scale, online social participation has increased.\n\nNowadays the importance of giving voice to priorities such as public health, political unrest, disaster relief, and climate change have introduced internet as a source for social change.\n\nSeveral social media movements have raised money for causes, such as the ALS Ice Bucket challenge raising $100million in 30 days. Even if they do not directly involve monetary funding, many online social movements raise awareness for causes such as institutionalized racism against African Americans with the Black Lives Matter movement and the inappropriate use of force by police authorities against black females, such as with the Say Her Name social movement. In the political sphere, active online groups increase political participation by providing a framework for discussion, leading petitions, and collecting donations in order to further a political agenda.\n\nSome experts believe there are potential weaknesses and long-term repercussions that can be identified with online movements. Some examples are clicktivism and slacktivism, where the use of social media to promote a cause include activities such as:\n\nAn example of a social movement that has received harsh criticism due to the effects that it had is the Black Lives Matter movement with incidents of looting and arson following the grand jury's decision to not indict the police officer that fatally shot Michael Brown in August 2014. There was public outcry after over 100 people burglarized stores and marketplaces in Ferguson, Missouri following the release of the court's decision. The online movement was criticized heavily by the conservative news source TheBlaze, saying that the online movement exacerbated feelings of injustice that ultimately led to looting and riots.\n\nSocial movements advance their work through the media. It is easier, less costly and time consuming to link collective behaviour as real time communication can occur vastly and simultaneously via social media. Some examples of online movements include:\n\n\nThe future of online movements is hard to predict. However, there are some clear directions where they could certainly lead towards. Vanessa DiMauro believes the biggest trend concerning online communities in the near future is private online communities. While these large networks that we encounter and use on a day-to-day basis have provided us with a productive and collaborative experience they have also increased to unmanageable sizes. To become a learning environment these groups need to be much smaller and manageable. This is where the idea and trend of private online communities could potentially be the future of online communities.\n\nSince the late 2000s, an increased use of commercial social media platforms by social movements has been reported. According to Lopes, \"Social Media websites such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and the various online blogs have arguably given a voice to individuals that otherwise would not be heard.\" However, the adoption of these commercial platforms has concerned analysts as they highlighted asymmetrical relationships between the for-profit aims of social media and the copy-left values that drive many online movements. According to Fenton, \"Claims for the extension and re-invention of activism need to be considered in the context of the material social and political world of inequality, injustice and corporate dominance.\"For example, \"in his analysis of the Purple Movement (Popolo Viola) in Italy and its extensive use of Facebook, Coretti (2014) demonstrates that, while the myth of the network as open and inclusive persists, it acts as a disguise for the communication protocols of commercial social networking platforms that may well enable large-scale mobilization but ultimately, through their very functionality, encourage organizational centralization and fragmentation in social movements\" (Fenton, 2016, p.184). The proprietary nature of the design of platforms such as Facebook pages fails to provide movements with the necessary instruments in terms of a shared democratic management of their resources. Moreover, the inability to manage Facebook pages and groups according to commonly agreed values promotes vertical power structures within movements, contributing to controversial management of Facebook pages and to internal divisions that significantly hinder the potential of protest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23888095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23888095", "title": "Persona 5", "text": "Persona 5\n\nPersona 5 is a role-playing video game developed by Atlus for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. \"Persona 5\" is chronologically the sixth installment in the \"Persona\" series, which is part of the larger \"Megami Tensei\" franchise. It was released in Japan in September 2016, and worldwide in April 2017, where it was published by Atlus in Japan and North America and by Deep Silver in Europe and Australia.\n\n\"Persona 5\" takes place in modern-day Tokyo, and follows a player-named protagonist after his transfer to the fictional Shujin Academy after being put on probation for an assault of which he was falsely accused. During the course of a school year, he and other students awaken to their Persona powers, becoming a group of secret vigilantes known as the Phantom Thieves of Hearts who explore the Metaverse, a supernatural realm consisting of the physical manifestation of humanity's subconscious desires, to change malevolent intent from the hearts of adults. As with previous titles in the series, the party does battle with enemies known as Shadows using physical manifestations of their psyche, called Personas. The game incorporates role-playing and dungeon crawling elements alongside social simulation scenarios.\n\nPreparatory work began around the same time as the development of \"Persona 4\", with full development beginning after the release of \"Catherine\" in 2011. The game was developed by P-Studio, an internal development studio within Atlus led by game director and producer Katsura Hashino. Along with Hashino, returning staff from earlier entries included character designer Shigenori Soejima and composer Shoji Meguro. The game's themes revolved around attaining freedom from the limitations of modern society, while its story was strongly inspired by picaresque fiction and the party's initial Personas were based around the theme of outlaws and rebels.\n\nFirst announced in 2013, the game was delayed from its original late 2014 release date so its quality could be further improved. \"Persona 5\" was met with critical acclaim, being nominated for and winning multiple year-end accolades, including several Game of the Year awards. It has since been considered to be one of the greatest role-playing games of all time. The game went on to ship over two million copies worldwide by the end of 2017, making it the best-selling entry in the overall \"Megami Tensei\" franchise. , a manga, and a have also been produced.\n\n\"Persona 5\" is a role-playing game where the player takes on the role of a high school student who lives out a single year while attending school in modern-day Tokyo. The game is governed by a day-night cycle and weather systems that determine general behavior similar to a social simulation game. The year is punctuated by both scripted and random events — the protagonist attends school, can perform part-time jobs, and pursue leisure activities or create items for use in battle. These various activities raise character attributes, which in turn grant passive buffing effects during battle. When in the real world, the main protagonist can develop character relationships known as \"Confidants\"; an evolution of the \"Social Link\" system from \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\". With this system, the main protagonist can converse with and improve his relationship with other characters he meets, with some leading to possible romances. Each relationship is symbolized by one of the Major Arcana of the Tarot card deck. Improving Confidant ranks with party members unlocks various abilities for use in combat, such as the \"Baton Pass\" ability, which allows the player to directly select another character after a critical hit while granting a temporary attack boost. Improving ranks with non-party Confidants grant other bonuses, such as giving access to new items and equipment and boosting experience point and yen gain.\n\nAlongside the normal school life is dungeon crawling gameplay of two different types within a realm called the Metaverse: story-specific dungeons called Palaces and randomly-generated Mementos dungeons. Both are populated by Shadows, which are physical manifestations of suppressed psyches modeled after mythological and religious figures. Within Mementos dungeons, the party can fulfill requests from non-playable characters (NPCs) received from a \"Confidant\" links. While navigating, the party uses stealth to avoid the sight of enemy Shadows, and some areas hold puzzles that can be solved using an insight ability known as \"Third Eye\", which highlights interactable objects and enemy strength compared to the party. When exploring story-centered Palaces, an \"Alertness Meter\" is present, where the party being spotted or fleeing combat results in security being raised. If security reaches 100%, the party is forced to leave the Palace. The Alertness level can be lowered by launching surprise attacks on and eliminating enemies, and also lowers automatically over night. Throughout Palaces are locations known as \"safe rooms\". In them, the player can save their game, heal their party, and fast travel to other safe rooms within the Palace.\n\nAs with previous entries in the series, the game uses a turn-based combat system: battles can be initiated when the party runs into an enemy, or they can launch a surprise attack and gain an advantage in battle. In battle, the party has access to both melee and gun weapons, in addition to being able to summon Personas, which are the manifestations of the main characters' inner psyche and are used mainly for magical attacks. If a character strikes an enemy's weakness, they knock the enemy down and are awarded an additional turn. If all enemies are knocked down, a \"Hold Up\" is triggered. During one, the party can launch a devastating \"All-Out Attack\", demand money or items, or enter a negotiation. Negotiation allows the protagonist to win the selected Shadow over to their side to become a new Persona: they can only be persuaded to join if the protagonist is their level or higher. Similar to previous entries, party members can be knocked out, and if the main character is knocked out, the game ends. At times, if a party member is knocked out, they can be captured by enemy Shadows, and is unable to return to the party if the resultant negotiation fails.\n\nNew Personas are gained from battle through a successful negotiation, and different Persona types are represented through different arcana linked to Confidant links. Personas can be combined, or \"fused\", or otherwise further manipulated within the Velvet Room, a realm the protagonist visits as part of his journey through the story. Within the Velvet Room, Personas can be fused with \"Guillotine\" fusion processes, with the resultant Persona inheriting skills and stats from its parents. The more skills a Persona has, the more are passed on to the fused Persona. How powerful Personas are through fusion depends on how advanced its associated Confidant link is. In addition, Personas can be sacrificed in various ways, also styled after styles of capital punishment: \"Hanging\" grants a sacrificed Persona's experience points to another chosen Persona, and \"Electric Chair\" sacrifices one to create a high-end item. A Persona can also be sent into \"Solitary Confinement\", where they undergo intensive training and gain additional skills quicker than normal. The number of days a Persona must remain to gain strength lessens based on its arcana strength.\n\nMinor multiplayer elements via the PlayStation Network are incorporated into the game through the \"Thieves Guild\" feature. Similar to the \"Vox Populi\" system from \"Persona 4 Golden\", players have the option of seeing what activities other players did during any given day. Players can send messages to each other, in addition to affecting the Alertness meter in the player's favor, and aiding in battle when a party member is taken hostage by an enemy.\n\n\"Persona 5\" takes place within the \"Persona\" universe, revolving around a group of high school students who harness Personas, which are physical manifestations of their inner psyche. \"Persona 5\" is set in modern-day Tokyo in April of the year \"20XX\" (Though the in game calender matches 2016, and Persona 4 character Rise Kujikawa being mentioned as 20 years old place the game in 2016) with navigable real world locations within the city, including Akihabara, Shinjuku, and Shibuya. Alongside larger environments, there are specific locations that can be entered, such as shops, restaurants, and movie theaters. A major setting throughout the game is Shujin Academy, a high school the protagonist attends. The second major location is the \"Metaverse\", a supernatural realm consisting of the physical manifestation of humanity's subconscious desires. In the Metaverse, people with large enough desires form their own unique \"Palace\", which is modeled after their own distorted perception of the world, along with a Shadow version of themselves. Palaces are populated by various types of Shadows, who take their forms after each Palace and become subservient to its leader. At the center of Palaces exists the source of the leader's desires, known as the \"Treasure\". The act of removing a Treasure forces the person in the real world to come to terms with themselves, publicly renouncing their crimes, sins, and vices if they were a criminal. A location that returns from earlier entries is the Velvet Room, a place that exists for the growth of Persona users that shifts appearance depending on the current guest: in \"Persona 5\", it takes the form of a prison.\n\nThe player character is a silent protagonist in common with other \"Persona\" games: he becomes the leader of the Phantom Thieves of Hearts vigilante group, who take treasures from the Palaces of criminals and other malevolent people. His first companion is school delinquent Ryuji Sakamoto, who forms the group with the protagonist. A third founding member is Morgana, a mysterious cat-like creature they aid within the Metaverse. Over the course of the game, further people join the group, including the withdrawn quarter-American Ann Takamaki; art prodigy Yusuke Kitagawa; Shujin student council president Makoto Niijima; hikikomori computer hacker Futaba Sakura; and cultured corporate heiress Haru Okumura. Also interacting with the protagonist are Goro Akechi, a high schooler and detective; Sae Nijima, a public prosecutor and Makoto's older sister; and the residents of the Velvet Room, Igor and his two assistants Caroline and Justine, with Justine referring to him as \"He Who Will Save The Souls of Humanity\" .\n\nAfter the protagonist defends a woman from being abused by a drunken man on the street, the protagonist is falsely charged with assault and put on probation, resulting in expulsion from his school. The protagonist is sent to Tokyo to stay with family associate Sojiro Sakura and attend Shujin Academy during his year-long probation. After his arrival, he is drawn into the Velvet Room, where Igor warns him that he must \"rehabilitate\" to avoid forthcoming ruin, and grants him access to a supernatural mobile app that leads the protagonist into the Metaverse and the Palace of the school's abusive volleyball coach Suguru Kamoshida. The protagonist meets Morgana, who informs him of the ability to change wicked people's hearts by stealing their \"Treasure\", the emotional root of their behavior, from the Palaces ruled by their Shadow selves. After successfully reforming Kamoshida, the protagonist and Morgana form the Phantom Thieves of Hearts, stealing corruption from the hearts of adults in an attempt to reform the city.\n\nAs the number of the Phantom Thieves' members and successes grow, they attract the attention of the public and police, including public prosecutor Sae Nijima and detective prodigy Goro Akechi. The Phantom Thieves learn that a secret group, including a black-masked assassin, are using the Metaverse to murder their targets and are framing them for the killings. In their pursuit of the conspiracy, the group is joined by Akechi, who is subsequently revealed to be the black-masked assassin. Escaping into hiding with Sae's help, the Phantom Thieves deduce that the conspiracy's leader is politician Masayoshi Shido, who has been using Akechi's ability to infiltrate the Metaverse to remove obstacles to becoming Prime Minister and imposing his reforms on Japan, as well as the one who pressed assault charges against the protagonist. When the Phantom Thieves infiltrate Shido's Palace, they face Akechi, who reveals himself to be Shido's illegitimate son, and has been secretly plotting to get revenge on Shido for years of neglect. Once defeated, Akechi sacrifices himself to protect the Phantom Thieves from a group of enemy cognitions, allowing them to escape and reach Shido.\n\nDespite Shido's arrest and confession after his heart has been changed, the public remains uninterested and has lost trust in both authority and the Phantom Thieves. In response, the Phantom Thieves make a final heist to steal the Treasure of Mementos, the people's Palace at the Metaverse's core. Inside, they discover that the public is in chaos and has chosen to give up their own autonomy. The Phantom Thieves are then ejected from Mementos by the Treasure, the Holy Grail, and vanish after witnessing the Metaverse merging with reality. Waking in the Velvet Room, the protagonist confronts Igor, Caroline, and Justine. Caroline and Justine regain their memories and merge into Lavenza, their true form. Lavenza reveals Igor to be an imposter who imprisoned the real Igor. The imposter is Yaldabaoth, the Holy Grail, who was created from humanity's wish to give up control. Through a bet made with Igor over humanity's goals, Yaldabaoth had given the protagonist and Akechi their abilities to see whether the world would be preserved or be destroyed through their actions, all while steering the game in his favor. The protagonist rejects Yaldabaoth's offer to return to his world at the cost of his freedom, and he, along with the rest of the Phantom Thieves, fight him. The protagonist's Confidants rally the popular support of the people, severing Yaldabaoth's control of humanity and allowing the protagonist to awaken Satanael to destroy Yaldabaoth and the Metaverse.\n\nAfter Yaldabaoth's defeat, in order for Shido to be prosecuted, the protagonist must turn himself into the police. While the protagonist is incarcerated, the rest of the Phantom Thieves and his Confidants successfully help secure evidence of the protagonist's innocence in the assault charge, leading to his conviction being overturned. By spring, the protagonist's friends drive him back to his hometown.\n\nPreparatory development of the game began in 2008, following the release of \"Persona 4\", with full development beginning following the release of \"Catherine\" in 2011. Hashino was only fully involved in development after \"Catherine\" was finished, later calling the latter game a test for the next \"Persona\" title's development. Development lasted five years. The game was developed by P-Studio, an internal development studio within Atlus dedicated to handling the \"Persona\" series. \"Persona 5\" would be Hashino's last game in the series as the leader of P-Studio, leaving to form a separate internal team, Studio Zero, following the game's release. When production started, the staff consisted of around 40 people. During full production, this number expanded to 70: 15 planners, 15 programmers, and between 30 and 45 designers. These included the game's lead designer Naoya Maeda, who had previously done modelling work for the \"Trauma Team\" series. The general development was a challenge for the team, as they intentionally changed their development structure due to the more powerful hardware they were working with.\n\nWhile the final game retained the turn-based system from earlier entries, one of the early design drafts was for an action-based system incorporating real-time elements foreign to the series. This idea was ultimately scrapped, but real-time command elements were introduced into the battle system, allowing the gameplay to evolve without any extensive change to the core system. A major new addition was the inclusions of unique dungeons with locked layouts as opposed to the dominant randomly generated dungeons of previous \"Persona\" titles. This was done to both emulate the game's themes and provide veteran players with something different. A returning feature from both earlier \"Persona\" titles and the mainline \"Megami Tensei\" series was Negotiation: as it was considered a key part of the overall franchise by fans, Hashino decided to reintroduce it after being absent from the previous two mainline entries. The Negotiation system for \"Persona 5\" was tied into the origins of Shadows as suppressed psyches within the Collective Unconscious. The \"Hold Up\" function was inspired by scenes in films where the antagonist would hold people at gunpoint and make demands. These functions were incorporated due to the title being in part a celebration of the series' history. While designing the gameplay elements, the weather and environmental elements were all designed to reflect the real world. Dungeon layout was split into three distinct types: the Tokyo overworld environments, \"institutions\" such as the protagonist's high school, and dungeon environments. Some segments took control away from the player aside from limited dialogue choices; this was chosen as it reflected the controlled environment of Japanese high schoolers. Lead programmer for the game was Yujiro Kosaka, who previously served the same role on \"Persona 4\" and \"Catherine\".\n\nWhile \"Catherine\" used the third-party Gamebryo game engine, \"Persona 5\" used a specially-created engine. Hashino believed that the new engine would make rendering their ideas much easier, although it would result in a long wait by fans for the game. The event scene software was also developed internally by Atlus, with an estimated 1,160 being featured in the final game. The tools for developing and handling them were greatly expanded over the previous two entries so as to properly communicate them to players on the more advanced hardware. Character modelling in general was handled with a specially-developed toon shader which helped properly translate the character designs into the game, while also allowing for easy adjustment of shaders and lighting effects during fine tuning. The characters were originally rendered realistically like in \"Catherine\", but the team felt that it was \"wrong\" for the \"Persona\" series. With this in mind, the team did some trial and error before finding a style that satisfied them, doing something similar for the interface and menu design. In contrast to \"Persona 4\", which had a general deformed look to hardware limitations on the variety of body shapes, the technology available to the team for \"Persona 5\" enabled unique customization for all relevant character models. Two different models were used for members of the main cast: a detailed model for real-time cutscenes, and a general-use model for general event scenes and gameplay. \"Persona 5\" was the first time a large number of Personas had been rendered in high definition, something which proved a grueling challenge for the team.\n\nThe original story concept was written by Hashino, while the scenario was co-written by Shinji Yamamoto and Yuichiro Tanaka. The initial concept was for a storyline that diverged from the established paths of \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\", with \"self-discovery\" and \"journey\" being its keywords. Originally using the frame story of a backpacking trip around the world, Hashino decided to refocus on Japan in the wake of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. Following that, and seeing the way people were bonding in the face of the crisis, Hashino decided to have the story take place solely in Japan, with the journeying being through the ever-shifting Palace. According to Hashino, the central theme of the game is freedom and how the characters attain it. He wanted to make the game more \"thematically approachable\" for newcomers to the series, and to be an emotional experience that presents players with a mix of emotions that leaves its audience with a strong sense of catharsis and the inspiration to take on their own modern-day problems.\n\nThe story's central concepts were inspired by equivalent social changes Hashino saw in modern society, particularly in Japan. The narrative of \"Persona 5\" was designed like an omnibus, with the antagonists pursued by the party changing regularly. The three main stories the team used for inspiration were \"Water Margin\" by Shi Nai'an, Japanese crime movie \"Hakuchuu no Shikaku\", and the anonymously authored Spanish novel \"Lazarillo de Tormes\". The setting and style was compared to a picaresque fiction; the question the team originally asked in that regard was how a character like Arsène Lupin III might win appeal in modern society. These themes were carried over into the aesthetics of Persona fusion and sacrifice, which were themed after styles of capital punishment. Having a more \"stereotypical\" theme enabled the team to create surprising story developments, mixing contemporary drama with the setting of the \"Persona\" series. The series' recurring motif of \"masks\" was used more overtly in the game's plot than previous entries. The game's main locations were based heavily on their real world counterparts.\n\nThe main characters, according to Hashino, share a mindset that they \"no longer have a place where they belong in society\": the events of the game give them a sense of belonging. Hashino stated that while the last few titles were about the protagonists chasing the antagonists, \"Persona 5\" would feature more of the antagonists and phenomena caused by them chasing the protagonists during their activities. The characters have been described as \"juvenile academics\". Their activities as thieves is part of the way they break way from societal norms and express themselves. The main aim of the game was to show the characters finding the courage to go outside the normal limits of society as set by previous generations. In contrast to previous \"Persona\" casts, the party of \"Persona 5\" willingly embrace the unfolding unusual events in their role of masked vigilantes rather than being dragged into them. The cast was originally going to be larger with character Hifumi Togo becoming a Phantom Thief, but as the story was already very large, she was relegated to an optional role as part of the Confidant system. Technological advances such as smartphones and the use of social media were integrated into both story and gameplay due to its growing prevalence in modern society.\n\nThe characters' initial Personas (Arsène, Captain Kidd, Carmen, Zorro, Goemon, Johanna, Necronomicon, Milady, and Robin Hood) were themed after outlaws and picaresque heroes to reflect the function and dominant suppressed passions forming the Palace, and also represent aspects of their owners' personalities. The protagonist's initial Persona was originally the German demon Mephistopheles, but it was changed to Arsène as the latter character better fit the game's themes. The cast's alternate Personas (Satanael, Seiten Taisei, Hecate, Mercurius, Kamu Susanoo, Anat, Prometheus, Astarte, Loki) are taken from mythical beings who act as tricksters or rebels. The three main inspirations behind the protagonist's alter ego were the original Arsène Lupin, The Fiend with Twenty Faces, and Ishikawa Goemon. The name of the protagonist's high school, \"Shujin\", was chosen because it was a homonym of , the Japanese word for \"prisoner\". Following a trend from earlier entries, the Velvet Room assistants are named after characters from the novel \"Frankenstein\" by Mary Shelley. The use of adults as antagonists was a more overt expression of narrative elements previously explored in \"Persona 4\". The relation to police activities was also carried over from \"Persona 4\", but this time with the role of protagonists and antagonists reversed. The game's villains and protagonists were parallels of each other, both being misfits trying to shape a world they saw as unsatisfactory or corrupted. This was intended to create ambiguity about the Phantom Thieves' actions, causing the player to question their concept of justice. This questioning extended to their mission as a whole, which was influenced by the way a vocal minority online could draw public attention to events and scandals in the news.\n\nShigenori Soejima, who had worked on the last two main-series \"Persona\" titles, returned as character designer. The game's art director was Masayoshi Suto, whose most notable work on earlier titles included the user interface (UI) displays. The art design reflected the picaresque theme aimed for by the rest of the team. As the team considered previous \"Persona\" games to \"fun\" but not be well marketed, they designed the UI in such a way as to attract a larger, more mainstream audience. According to Soejima, he was working on prospective designs for the game while \"Persona 4\" was still in development, with his designs evolving as the story for \"Persona 5\" came together. Aesthetically, the team felt that they were picking up where \"Persona 4\" left off. Its styling presentation was an unintentional reflection on the hurdles the team needed to overcome during development. Following the respective thematic coloring of \"Persona 3\" and \"4\" blue and yellow, \"Persona 5\" used red, which was chosen to a harsh feeling. Because of this, Suto tested multiple font colors until settling on black and white, as it stood out best against it. There was also a wish, especially in the teaser image used for the game's announcement, which represented the main characters' being chained down by the rules of the modern world. Soejima designed the logo to convey the high-speed existences of the young cast, while elements such as the protagonist's Persona Arsène were designed to appear old-fashioned by comparison. This presented challenges as Soejima needed to balance this with a strong sense of style. The main aim for the game's environments was to create a sense of realism, with Tokyo being modeled after real locations. When creating the UI, Hashino wanted to demonstrate how a shift in perspective could alter a dull life into an exciting one in the context of the story. Early UI designs were so \"aggressively animated\" that it obscured what was happening in the game. Because of this, the animations were toned down and text orientation was altered, toning down the UI's graphical elements to present a balance between user-friendliness and style. Rather than the use of sub-colors for earlier entries, the UI used only the primary red, black and white colors aside from health and magic point meters, with the menus using a special moving 3D model of the protagonist which would change position depending on the selected menu.\n\nThe first character sketches were submitted in 2012. Soejima worked closely with Hashino so the characters and environments reflected the game's themes. Due to being high school students, Soejima found it difficult to make each main character's uniform design distinctive, instead expressing their individuality through their thief costumes. The protagonist's design was cited by Soejima as his most challenging recent work. The protagonist needed to both convey a taste of the game's overall artstyle, and to act as an avatar for the player. As the main theme and narrative of \"Persona 5\" revolved around crime and vigilantes triggered by the protagonist voluntarily choosing that path, Soejima needed to convey this while allowing the character to suit whatever dialogue choices the player decided upon. Due to these difficulties, the protagonist was given multiple designs in a trial and error process to find the best one. As the \"phantom thief\" premise was a common stereotype in fiction, Soejima initially drew the protagonist and main cast in a style similar to shōnen manga, but these designs were scrapped as they clashed with the \"Persona\" series' realistic aesthetics. As with previous entries, the protagonist was a silent character, so as with previous protagonist Soejima had to work out a way he could communicate without dialogue. His solution was to imagine the \"Persona 5\" protagonist as the type of person who made plans but did not share them with others. The Persona designs, being based on characters from literature, were intended to evoke both familiarity and surprise from players. Once the names were chosen, Soejima designed the Personas based on that character.\n\nThe game's anime cutscenes were created by Production I.G, and were directed and supervised by Toshiyuki Kono. Kono was directed three and a half years prior to the game's completion by Hashino: faced with the project, Kono felt a great deal of pressure in his role. \"Persona 5\" was the first time Production I.G had worked on the series, though many staff at the studio were fans. Despite this, the studio did not change their standard animation process, focusing on characters as they had done for many of their previous projects. The most important part of the cutscenes was getting the character's expressions right, particularly when it came to the general-mute protagonist. The game's animated opening sequence was directed by Sayo Yamamoto. The concept behind the characters figure skating around the environment was done as a visual symbolization of the game's overall theme, breaking free of an oppressive force, and was similar to her work in \"Yuri on Ice\". The scene where the protagonist first summoned his Persona was requested by Atlus to appear \"wild\", which again was difficult to the protagonist's purpose as an extension of the player. The blue flame effects related to the Persona were not created with CGI, but hand-drawn by the animators. All the anime cutscenes together were estimated as containing over an hour of footage.\n\nThe original score for the game was composed, performed, and produced by series sound director Shoji Meguro. Further contributions, among other general sound design, was handled by Toshiki Konishi, Kenichi Tsuchiya, Atsushi Kitajoh, and Ryota Kozuka; all of them having previously worked on the series as well. Meguro was given full creative freedom to work on the soundtrack, with around 80% of the tracks used in the game being his, which lasted around three years in total. Seven tracks, including the opening theme \"Wake Up, Get Up, Get Out There\", were performed in English by Lyn Inaizumi, a jazz and soul music singer. Her first performance in a video game, Inaizumi claimed that the most difficult part of her contributions was performing a rap segment in the opening theme. The lyrics for her tracks were written by Benjamin Franklin, while the lyrics for the ending song \"Hoshi To Bokura To\" was written in Japanese by Shigeo Komori.\n\nIn order to express the game's mood, Meguro incorporated strong acid jazz elements into the score. He also aimed to make the music sound more realistic than previous \"Persona\" games, aiming to match the game's visuals. Meguro also changed the way the music flowed when compared to the last two \"Persona\" games. Instead of the opening and ending themes being conglomerates of the overall score, he described the entire score as a single continuous work. A recurring musical element he included was described as a \"do-la\" syllable: the opening used \"so la re mi\" on strings as a hook, which then led into the \"do-la\" syllable for other tracks, including the normal battle theme. While he was creating the music, Meguro received positive comments from Hashino when he made early tracks created for an internal demo.\nThe game's official soundtrack was released in Japan by Mastard Records as a three-disc set on January 17, 2017. Upon its debut, the album reached fifth on the Oricon charts with sales of over 29,000. The album featured 110 tracks with commentary from the sound team, while the cover and liner note artwork were designed by Soejima. In addition to the soundtrack, a 19-track disc featuring a selection of the main themes from the game, \"Persona 5: Sounds of the Rebellion\", was released as part of the North American and European collector's edition bundle. The complete soundtrack later received a localized English release on iTunes on April 18, 2017, and on vinyl later that year by iam8bit.\n\n\"Persona 5\" was first announced with a teaser trailer in 2013, alongside spin-off titles \"\", \"\", and the PlayStation 3 port of \"Persona 4 Arena Ultimax\". The game was originally announced for a late 2014 release exclusively for the PlayStation 3. During a Sony press conference in September 2014, it was announced that the game would also be released for the PlayStation 4, also announcing that it had been delayed into 2015. According to director Katsura Hashino, the game was delayed to fully develop for the PlayStation 4, and improve the general quality of the game for both versions. The game's first gameplay trailer was revealed during a special livestream on February 5, 2015. A Blu-ray Disc containing an exclusive trailer for the game was bundled with first print copies of \"Persona 4: Dancing All Night\" in Japan on June 25, 2015. The song used in the first gameplay trailer was an instrumental version of the main theme. During a special livestream for the game at the 2015 Tokyo Game Show, it was announced that the game would be delayed once again to Q3 2016. Speaking in a staff interview, Hashino apologized for the delay and stated that it was necessary in order to deliver a high-quality product without having to hold back in terms of content.\n\nIn April 2016, Atlus launched an official countdown relating to the game that counted down to May 5, 2016. Shortly after, a special livestream was announced titled \"Take Tokyo Tower\", which would coincide with the countdown date. During the Take Tokyo Tower livestream on that day, the release date for the game was revealed in a trailer shown during the livestream. The game was released in Japan on September 15, 2016. Along with the standard edition, a \"20th Anniversary Edition\" was released, which features all downloadable content (DLC) based on \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\", a five-CD best-of album set featuring music from all six main games in the series, and the official artbook for the game by Soejima. In honor of the game's Japanese release, the series-focused variety show \"Persona Stalker Club\" featured a new programming block titled \"Persona Stalker Club V\". In promotion of the game in Japan, Atlus partnered with AKG Acoustics to release a limited edition wireless headphone based on the one Futaba wears in-game. The headphones came with box art designed by Soejima, as well as a music CD featuring two remixed tracks from the game by Meguro and Kozuka. Certain character apparel from the game were also made and released in Japan, such as jackets and tote bags.\n\nFollowing its release, character skins and additional Personas were released as paid downloadable content (DLC). The costumes included those incorporated into the \"20th Anniversary Edition\" based on \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\", in addition to new costumes based on the characters of \"\", the \"Persona 2\" duology (\"\" and \"\"), \"Shin Megami Tensei If...\", \"Catherine\", \"Shin Megami Tensei IV\", \"\", \"Persona 4 Arena\", and \"Dancing All Night\". The costumes were accompanied by arranged battle music from each costume set's respective game, which replaces the default battle theme based on what costume the protagonists wears. The Personas were reskinned and original versions of key Personas from \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\". In addition, PlayStation themes and avatar sets were released based on the central characters of \"Persona 5\". An additional difficulty setting known as \"Merciless\" was also released as free DLC.\n\nPre-order bonuses and its initial North American release date was announced a week prior to E3 2016. As with the Japanese release, the North American version was delayed so it would keep with other \"Persona\" games. In Europe and Australia, the game was published by Deep Silver. Initially planned for a Western release on February 14, 2017, the game was pushed back two months to April 4; the stated reason was that Atlus wanted the game to be at its highest possible quality. As with previous \"Persona\" games, the English localization was handled by Atlus USA and led by Yu Namba. According to Namba, the team began with a \"blank slate\" when choosing the English voice cast, as it was a new setting to earlier \"Persona\" titles. Localizing \"Persona 5\" was described by Namba as a massive project with the largest staff yet dedicated to the series. Namba, as project lead, made the final call on issues brought up by the team during the localization process. The localized script was estimated as being 50% bigger than that of \"Persona 4 Golden\". The game's title also dropped the use of the \"Shin Megami Tensei\" moniker in English regions, which was used for \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\". While the English voice track was included on the game disc, the Japanese voices were made available as free DLC.\n\n\"Persona 5\" has been called one of the greatest role-playing games of all time by critics, receiving \"universal acclaim\" according to review aggregator \"Metacritic\". \"Famitsu\" gave it a positive review, with the game garnering a near-perfect score. \"PlayStation Official Magazine – UK\" described the game as \"an unabashed masterpiece\". One of the aspects of the game that was highly praised was its graphical style and art direction.\n\nThe quality of the game's English localization was one of the few aspects singled out for criticism, with \"Polygon\" describing it as \"aggravatingly mediocre\". Another was the game's treatment of LGBT topics: Kenneth Shepard noted in \"Paste\" that the only characters to exist outside of the game's thoroughly heteronormative setting are a lecherous gay couple who are treated as a joke, which led him to conclude that \"Persona 5\" sees gay men \"at best as a joke and at worst something revolting to be feared\".\n\nThe game received a boost to pre-order sales following the delayed release of \"Final Fantasy XV\", which was originally scheduled for the same month as \"Persona 5\". Sales went up on Amazon Japan by 450%, bringing the game to second place in their best-seller charts behind \"Tales of Berseria\". In its first week of release, the PS4 version reached first place with sales of 264,793 units, while the PS3 version reached second place with 72,974, resulting in total sales of 337,767 units. This made \"Persona 5\" the fastest-selling title in the series' history, surpassing \"Revelations: Persona\", and together with \"Pro Evolution Soccer 2017\" pushed sales of the PS4 up significantly over the previous week. It was later reported by Hashino that combined physical shipments and digital sales had reached over 550,000 units. Within three weeks of its launch in Japan, the game became Atlus' best-selling title in the country.\n\nOutside of Japan, it was the biggest debut for any \"Persona\" title to date, with packaged sales five times better than \"Persona 4\". On the PlayStation Network in April, the game topped the PS4 charts, and was third on the PS3, with, Atlus announcing that it had shipped 1.5 million copies worldwide. By November 2017, the shipment number had risen to over two million, which made it the best-selling game in the series. The success of \"Persona 5\" contributed to increasing annual revenue for Sega, owner of Atlus and the \"Persona\" series.\n\nIn the PlayStation Awards 2016 in Japan, \"Persona 5\" won two awards. At The Game Awards 2017, the game was nominated for the show's \"Game of the Year\", \"Best Art Direction\", \"Best Score/Music\", and \"Best Role Playing Game\" awards. \"Persona 5\" was awarded \"Best Role Playing Game\" at the event. It was named the second best game of 2017 by GameSpot, behind \".\" At IGN's \"Best of 2017\" awards, it won best RPG, and was also nominated for Game of the Year, best PlayStation 4 game, best art direction, best story, and best soundtracks awards. The game was also nominated for the \"Best Music\" and \"Best Style\" awards by Giant Bomb.\n\nIt was ranked as one of the best games of 2017 by \"Eurogamer\", \"Zero Punctuation\", \"Polygon\", \"The Verge\", \"GamesRadar+\", and \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" end of year lists. Ray Porreca of \"Destructoid\" named it his 5th best game of 2017. The website also nominated the game for \"Best PS4 Game\" at its Game of the Year Awards 2017. Readers and staff of \"Game Informer\" voted it as their best role-playing game of 2017, as well as having the best narrative and cast. In their reader's choice awards, it also came in second place for \"Best Sony Game\" and third place for Game of the Year. The game won the Tin Pan Alley Award for Best Music in a Game at the New York Game Awards 2018. It was also nominated for the \"Best Visual Art\" award at the Game Developers Choice Awards. In addition, it was nominated for best role-playing game at the 2018 D.I.C.E. Awards, and for \"Excellence in Musical Score\" and \"Excellence in Art\" at the 2018 SXSW Gaming Awards. At the 17th National Academy of Video Game Trade Reviewers Awards, the game was nominated for various categories and won \"Art Direction, Contemporary\"; \"Costume Design\"; \"Direction in a Game Cinema\"; \"Game, Franchise Role Playing\"; and \"Writing in a Drama\".\n\nPrior to the game's release, a standalone anime special titled \"Persona 5: The Animation -The Day Breakers-\" aired on Japanese television on September 3, 2016. Created by A-1 Pictures, \"The Day Breakers\" is set during the events of the game, being portrayed as a \"sub event\" separate from the main narrative. A manga adaptation by Hisato Murasaki began serialization online from September 15. \"\", an anime television series based on the game's events, was produced by CloverWorks and began its broadcast on April 7, 2018, retaining the original Japanese voice cast. A costume based on Joker was provided to players as a pre-order bonus in Sega's 2017 platform game, \"Sonic Forces\".\n\n\"\", a rhythm game for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita, features the main cast of \"Persona 5\" and was released in Japan in May 2018 and will be released worldwide in December 2018. The cast will also be featured in \"\" for the Nintendo 3DS, which is slated for release in November 2018.\n"}
{"id": "197048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197048", "title": "Pheng Xat Lao", "text": "Pheng Xat Lao\n\n\"Pheng Sat Lāo\" (, ) is the national anthem of the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Dr. Thongdy Sounthonevichit composed the music and wrote the lyrics in 1941. This was adopted as the national anthem of the Kingdom of Laos in 1945. The original lyrics were revised after the Pathet Lao won the Laotian Civil War and the Lao People's Democratic Republic was established in 1975, with the new lyrics written by Sisana Sisane.\n\nIn 1893, Laos became a protectorate of France within its colonial empire. The French claimed their takeover was intended to protect Laos from its hostile neighbours like Siam, which was forced to cede Laos to the colonial power. Consequently, nationalistic sentiment did not develop as quickly as it did in Vietnam. However, the outbreak of the Second World War saw the fall of France to Nazi Germany. The new right-wing government in Siam saw this as an opportunity to reconquer Laos. To counteract this, the French actively promoted nationalism among the Lao people.\n\nAs a direct result of this new liberalization, many patriotic songs were composed during this time. \"Pheng Xat Lao\" was one of them, having been composed by Dr. Thongdy Sounthonevichit in 1941. The song was chosen as the national anthem of Laos in 1945, when the king was forced by the Japanese to declare Laos' independence from France. This newfound freedom was short-lived as France soon regained control of French Indochina. Two years later, the French granted Laos limited autonomy within the French Union and \"Pheng Xat Lao\" once again became the national anthem.\n\nWhen the Pathet Lao emerged victorious in the Laotian Civil War in 1975, the Communist government decided to change the lyrics to the anthem in order to reflect the ideology of the new regime. As a result, the anthem became all-encompassing in mentioning all ethnic groups in Laos, instead of focussing solely on the Lao race and Buddhism. However, the music from the former anthem was retained.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988126", "title": "Pomoan languages", "text": "Pomoan languages\n\nThe Pomoan, or Pomo , languages are a small family of seven languages indigenous to northern California that spoken by the Pomo people, who formerly occupied the valley of the Russian River and the Clear Lake basin. Four languages are extinct, and all surviving languages but Kashaya have fewer than ten speakers.\n\nJohn Wesley Powell, who was the first to define the extent of the family, noted that its boundaries were the Pacific Ocean to the west, Wintuan territory in the Sacramento Valley to the east, the head of the Russian River to the north, and Bodega Head and present-day Santa Rosa to the south (Powell 1891:87-88). Only Northeastern Pomo was not contiguous with the other Pomoan languages, being separated by an intervening region of Wintuan speakers.\n\nPomoan is a family of seven languages. Their relationship to one another was first formally recognized by John Wesley Powell, who proposed that they be called the \"Kulanapan Family\" (Powell 1891). Like many of Powell's obscure nomenclatural proposals, particularly for California languages, \"Kulanapan\" was ignored. In its place, Pomo, the term used by Indians and Whites alike for Northern Pomo was arbitrarily extended to include the rest of the family. It was thus as \"Pomo\" that all seven languages were first systematically identified by Samuel Barrett (1908). To avoid complications, Barrett named each of the Pomoan languages according to its geographic position (\"Northern Pomo,\" \"Southeastern Pomo,\" etc.). This naming convention quickly gained wide acceptance and is still in general use, except for the substitution of \"Kashaya\" for Barrett's \"Southwestern Pomo\". Regrettably, however, Barrett's geographical language names often lead those unfamiliar with the Pomoan languages to the misconception that they are dialects of a single \"Pomo\" language.\n\nVarious genetic subgroupings of the family have been proposed, although the general outlines have remained fairly consistent. The current consensus view (cf. Mithun 1999) favors the tree presented in Oswalt (1964), shown below.\n\n\nEssentially identical versions of this classifications are presented in Oswalt and McLendon's \"Introduction\" to the Pomo chapters in Heizer, ed. (1978) and in Campbell (1997). The most important dissenter was Abraham M. Halpern, one of the few linguists since Barrett's time to collect comparative data on all of the Pomoan languages. Halpern's classification differed from Oswalt's mainly in the placement of Northeastern Pomo. Instead of considering it an independent branch of the family, Halpern grouped it with the languages of Oswalt's \"Western\" branch, suggesting the possibility that Northeastern Pomo represents a recent migration of a Northern Pomo subgroup (Halpern 1964; Golla 2011:106-7).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "255514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255514", "title": "Religious art", "text": "Religious art\n\nReligious art or sacred art is artistic imagery using religious inspiration and motifs and is often intended to uplift the mind to the spiritual. Sacred art involves the ritual and cultic practices and practical and operative aspects of the path of the spiritual realization within the artist's religious tradition.\n\nChristian sacred art is produced in an attempt to illustrate, supplement and portray in tangible form the principles of Christianity, though other definitions are possible.It is to make imagery of the different beliefs in the world and what it looks like.Most Christian groups use or have used art to some extent, although some have had strong objections to some forms of religious image, and there have been major periods of iconoclasm within Christianity. Most Christian art is allusive, or built around themes familiar to the intended observer. One of the most common Christian themes is that of the Virgin Mary holding the infant Jesus. Another is that of Christ on the Cross. For the benefit of the illiterate, an elaborate iconographic system developed to conclusively identify scenes. For example, Saint Agnes depicted with a lamb, Saint Peter with keys, Saint Patrick with a shamrock. Each saint holds or is associated with attributes and symbols in sacred art.\n\nEarly Christian art survives from dates near the origins of Christianity. The oldest surviving Christian paintings are from the site at Megiddo, dated to around the year 70, and the oldest Christian sculptures are from sarcophagi, dating to the beginning of the 2nd century. Until the adoption of Christianity by Constantine Christian art derived its style and much of its iconography from popular Roman art, but from this point grand Christian buildings built under imperial patronage brought a need for Christian versions of Roman elite and official art, of which mosaics in churches in Rome are the most prominent surviving examples.\n\nDuring the development of Christian art in the Byzantine empire (see Byzantine art), a more abstract aesthetic replaced the naturalism previously established in Hellenistic art. This new style was hieratic, meaning its primary purpose was to convey religious meaning rather than accurately render objects and people. Realistic perspective, proportions, light and colour were ignored in favour of geometric simplification of forms, reverse perspective and standardized conventions to portray individuals and events. The controversy over the use of \"graven images\", the interpretation of the Second Commandment, and the crisis of Byzantine Iconoclasm led to a standardization of religious imagery within the Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nThe Renaissance saw an increase in monumental secular works, but until the Protestant Reformation Christian art continued to be produced in great quantities, both for churches and clergy and for the laity. During this time, Michelangelo Buonarroti painted the Sistine Chapel and carved the famous \"Pietà\", Gianlorenzo Bernini created the massive columns in St. Peter's Basilica, and Leonardo Da Vinci painted the \"Last Supper\". The Reformation had a huge effect on Christian art, rapidly bringing the production of public Christian art to a virtual halt in Protestant countries, and causing the destruction of most of the art that already existed.\n\nAs a secular, non-sectarian, universal notion of art arose in 19th-century Western Europe, secular artists occasionally treated Christian themes (Bouguereau, Manet). Only rarely was a Christian artist included in the historical canon (such as Rouault or Stanley Spencer). However many modern artists such as Eric Gill, Marc Chagall, Henri Matisse, Jacob Epstein, Elizabeth Frink and Graham Sutherland have produced well-known works of art for churches. Through a social interpretation of Christianity, Fritz von Uhde also revived the interest in sacred art, though the depiction of Jesus in ordinary places in life.\n\nSince the advent of printing, the sale of reproductions of pious works has been a major element of popular Christian culture. In the 19th century, this included genre painters such as Mihály Munkácsy. The invention of color lithography led to broad circulation of holy cards. In the modern era, companies specializing in modern commercial Christian artists such as Thomas Blackshear and Thomas Kinkade, although widely regarded in the fine art world as kitsch, have been very successful.\n\nThe last part of the 20th and the first part of the 21st century have seen a focused effort by artists who claim faith in Christ to re-establish art with themes that revolve around faith, Christ, God, the Church, the Bible and other classic Christian themes as worthy of respect by the secular art world. Artists such as Makoto Fujimura have had significant influence both in sacred and secular arts. Other notable artists include Larry D. Alexander, Gary P. Bergel, Carlos Cazares, Bruce Herman, Deborah Sokolove, and John August Swanson.\n\nBuddhist art originated on the Indian subcontinent following the historical life of Siddhartha Gautama, 6th to 5th century BC, and thereafter evolved by contact with other cultures as it spread throughout Asia and the world.\n\nBuddhist art followed believers as the dharma spread, adapted, and evolved in each new host country. It developed to the north through Central Asia and into Eastern Asia to form the Northern branch of Buddhist art, and to the east as far as Southeast Asia to form the Southern branch of Buddhist art. In India, Buddhist art flourished and even influenced the development of Hindu art, until Buddhism nearly disappeared in India around the 10th century due in part to the vigorous expansion of Islam alongside Hinduism.\n\nMost Tibetan Buddhist artforms are related to the practice of Vajrayana or Buddhist tantra.\nTibetan art includes thangkas and mandalas, often including depictions of Buddhas and bodhisattvas. Creation of Buddhist art is usually done as a meditation as well as creating an object as aid to meditation. An example of this is the creation of a sand mandala by monks; before and after the construction prayers are recited, and the form of the mandala represents the pure surroundings (palace) of a Buddha on which is meditated to train the mind. The work is rarely, if ever, signed by the artist. Other Tibetan Buddhist art includes metal ritual objects, such as the vajra and the phurba.\n\nTwo places suggest more vividly than any others the vitality of Buddhist cave painting from about the 5th century AD. One is Ajanta, a site in India long forgotten until discovered in 1817. The other is Dunhuang, one of the great oasis staging posts on the Silk Road...The paintings range from calm devotional images of the Buddha to lively and crowded scenes, often featuring the seductively full-breasted and narrow-waisted women more familiar in Indian sculpture than in painting. Major art included mosques and a madonna (art of Mary and possibly her child)\n\nA prohibition against depicting representational images in religious art, as well as the naturally decorative nature of Arabic script, led to the use of calligraphic decorations, which usually involved repeating geometrical patterns and vegetal forms (arabesques) that expressed ideals of order and nature. These were used on religious architecture, carpets, and handwritten documents. Islamic art has reflected this balanced, harmonious world-view. It focuses on spiritual essence rather than physical form.\n\nWhile there has been an aversion to potential idol worship through Islamic history, this is a distinctly modern Sunni view. Persian miniatures, along with medieval depictions of Muhammad and angels in Islam, stand as prominent examples contrary to the modern Sunni tradition. Also, Shi'a Muslims are much less averse to the depiction of figures, including the Prophet's as long as the depiction is respectful.\n\nThe Islamic resistance to the representation of living beings ultimately stems from the belief that the creation of living forms is unique to God, and it is for this reason that the role of images and image makers has been controversial. The strongest statements on the subject of figural depiction are made in the Hadith (Traditions of the Prophet), where painters are challenged to \"breathe life\" into their creations and threatened with punishment on the Day of Judgment. The Qur'an is less specific but condemns idolatry and uses the Arabic term musawwir (\"maker of forms,\" or artist) as an epithet for God. Partially as a result of this religious sentiment, figures in painting were often stylized and, in some cases, the destruction of figurative artworks occurred. Iconoclasm was previously known in the Byzantine period and aniconicism was a feature of the Judaic world, thus placing the Islamic objection to figurative representations within a larger context. As ornament, however, figures were largely devoid of any larger significance and perhaps therefore posed less challenge.\nAs with other forms of Islamic ornamentation, artists freely adapted and stylized basic human and animal forms, giving rise to a great variety of figural-based designs.\n\nCalligraphy is a highly regarded element of Islamic art. The Qur'an was transmitted in Arabic, and inherent within the Arabic script is the potential for ornamental forms. The employment of calligraphy as ornament had a definite aesthetic appeal but often also included an underlying talismanic component. While most works of art had legible inscriptions, not all Muslims would have been able to read them. One should always keep in mind, however, that calligraphy is principally a means to transmit a text, albeit in a decorative form.\nFrom its simple and primitive early examples of the 5th and 6th century AD, the Arabic alphabet developed rapidly after the rise of Islam in the 7th century into a beautiful form of art. The main two families of calligraphic styles were the dry styles, called generally the Kufic, and the soft cursive styles, which include Naskhi, Thuluth, Nastaliq and many others.\n\nGeometric patterns make up one of the three nonfigural types of decoration in Islamic art. Whether isolated or used in combination with nonfigural ornamentation or figural representation, geometric patterns are popularly associated with Islamic art, largely due to their aniconic quality. These abstract designs not only adorn the surfaces of monumental Islamic architecture but also function as the major decorative element on a vast array of objects of all types.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40295634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40295634", "title": "Robert Pincus-Witten", "text": "Robert Pincus-Witten\n\nRobert Pincus-Witten (April 5, 1935 – January 28, 2018) was an American art critic, curator and art historian.\n\nBorn in New York City, Pincus-Witten earned his undergraduate degree at The Cooper Union, in New York City in 1956. He wrote his master's degree (1962) and Ph.D. (1968) both at the University of Chicago. His dissertation, on Joséphin Péladan and the Salon de la Rose + Croix was written under Joshua Taylor and John Rewald.\n\nPincus-Witten joined the City University of New York in 1964. In 1970 he was promoted to professor at CUNY. Pincus-Witten retired from CUNY in 1990.\n\nIn 1966 he began writing criticism for Artforum magazine as its senior editor. He became associate editor of Artforum in 1976.\n\nAn initial book on minimalism and the era following it was issued in 1977. His collected art criticism was published as Eye to Eye: Twenty Years of Art Criticism, in 1984. His treatise on post-modern art, Postminimalism into Maximalism: American Art 1966-1986, appeared in 1987. Postminimalism is an art term coined (as \"post-minimalism\") by Pincus-Witten in 1971 used in various artistic fields for work which is influenced by, or attempts to develop and go beyond, the aesthetic of minimalism.\n\nPincus-Witten curated art shows for the Gagosian Gallery (East) in New York City, until 1996. That same year he joined the staff of C&M Arts (Mnuchin Fine Arts), New York City as Director of Exhibitions and then retired after eleven years.\n\nOn July 3, 2013, Pincus-Witten and Leon Hecht were married in NYC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6361448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6361448", "title": "Ruyi (scepter)", "text": "Ruyi (scepter)\n\nRuyi () is a curved decorative object that serves as a ceremonial sceptre in Chinese Buddhism or a talisman symbolizing power and good fortune in Chinese folklore. A traditional \"ruyi\" has a long S-shaped handle and a head fashioned like a fist, cloud, or lingzhi mushroom. \"Ruyi\" are constructed from diverse materials. For example, the Palace Museum in Beijing has nearly 3000 \"ruyi\" that are variously made from valuable materials like gold, silver, iron, bamboo, wood, ivory, coral, rhinoceros horn, lacquer, crystal, jade, and precious gems. The \"ruyi\" image frequently appears as a motif in Asian art.\n\nThe Chinese term \"ruyi\" is a compound of \"ru\" \"as; like; such as; as if; for example; supposing; be like; be similar; accord with\" and \"yi\" \"wish; will; desire; intention; suggestion; thought; idea; meaning; imagination\". \n\nStandard Chinese uses \"ruyi\" either as a stative verb meaning \"as desired; as one wishes, as one likes; according to one's wishes; following your heart's desires\", or as an adjective meaning \"satisfied, pleased, happy, comfortable\". The word is combined with \"suanpan\" 算盤 \"abacus\" in the expression \"ruyi suanpan\" \"wishful thinking; smug calculations\". \n\nChinese \"ruyi\" was borrowed as a Buddhist loanword into Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese, with corresponding Sino-Xenic pronunciations (see Infobox above).\n\nChinese classic texts from the Former Han dynasty (206 BC – 24 AD) have the earliest usages of the word \"ruyi\". For example, the \"Shiji\" history uses it both literally for \"as desired\" and for the given name of Liu Ruyi 劉如意 (d. 195 BC), who was the son of Emperor Gaozu of Han and Concubine Qi. The \"Hanshu\" biography of the \"fangshi\" astrologer and mathematician Jing Fang (78–37 BCE) quotes him using \"ruyi\" meaning \"as you wish\" in an audience with Emperor Yuan of Han (tr. Edkins 1904: 238), \"I fear that though your Majesty acts in this way you will still not obtain what accords with your wish.\"\n\nThe anthropologist Berthold Laufer (1912:336) said that the Chinese accounts of the \"ruyi\" are \"more unsatisfactory\" than for any other object in Chinese culture. Scholars have proposed two basic theories for the origin of the \"ruyi\", writes Kieschnick (2003:141). The former is that \"ruyi\" originated from Sanskrit \"anuruddha\" \"a ceremonial scepter\" used by Buddhist monks in India, who later brought it to China, transliterated as \"analu\" 阿那律 or translated as \"ruyi\". The latter theory is that \"ruyi\" originated as a backscratcher in early China, and was amalgamated with the Buddhist symbol of authority. Davidson (1950:239) suggests \"as desired\" signifies a backscratcher owing to \"its apparent ability to reach otherwise inaccessible areas of the human body\".\n\nDuring the Later Han dynasty (25–220 AD) and Jin dynasty (265–420 AD), literati and nobles often held \"ruyi\" during conversations and other social occasions. It was called a \"tanbing\" 談柄 \"conversation baton\" (cf. the Native American talking stick) and was used much like \"zhuwei\" 麈尾 \"deer tail; fly-whisk\", which practitioners of the \"qingtan\" 清談 \"pure conversation\" movement popularized during the Six Dynasties period (220–589 AD). Besides the \"ruyi\", other objects used as a \"tanbing\" \"discussion stick\" included the \"tanshan\" 談扇 \"discussion fan\" and \"tanzhu\" 談麈 made from the tail of a Père David's deer. Davidson (1950:247) says \"there seems no doubt that the primary and original function of the \"ju-i\" was that of a scepter qualifying the holder to \"take the floor.\" Its origin was probably in India where the branch of a tree seems to have served a similar function. Any other purposes the \"ju-i\" served, such as a note tablet, honorific insignia, good luck gift, or even backscratcher, were merely later accruals.\"\n\nThe ca. 554 AD \"Weishu\" history records a story that when Emperor Xiaowen of Northern Wei (r. 471–499 AD) wanted to retire from the throne, he tested his sons by letting them choose among a number objects, and the one who selected a bone \"ruyi\" (symbolizing political rule) became Emperor Xuanwu of Northern Wei (r. 500–515). Kieschnick (2003:144) concludes \"that by the end of the sixth century, not only was the \"ruyi\" common at court, but it had even begun to take on emblematic significance as the mark of a ruler.\" Although the \"ruyi\" symbolized imperial political power, it differed from the Western royal scepter because Chinese officials and monks commonly used it.\n\nIn Buddhist usage, holding a \"ruyi\" when teaching gave the holder the right to talk. The biography of Tiantai Buddhist patriarch Zhiyi (538-597) says that when he was teaching \"Prajna\" in place of his teacher Huisi 慧思 (515–577), Huisi would sit holding a \"ruyi\" in his hand (Davidson 1950:244).\n\nThe (c. 886) \"Duyang zabian\" 杜陽雜編, which is a collection of Tang dynasty (618–907) stories, records that Emperor Wenzong presented an ivory \"ruyi\" to his tutor Li Xun 李訓 (d. 835) and said (tr. Kieschnick 2003:145), \"The \"ruyi\" may serve you as a lecture baton (\"tanbing\").\" The (945) \"Old Book of Tang\" biography of Li Xun (tr. Davidson 1950:247) says this occurred on a hot summer day and the emperor's \"ruyi\" present was made from \"heat-repelling rhinoceros horn\", which is believed to be cooling in Traditional Chinese Medicine. \"Ruyi\" were both emblems of power and tools of discourse. \n\nHerbert Giles (1912:185) quoted the Song dynasty archaeologist Zhao Xigu 趙希鵠 (d. 1240) that the \"ruyi\" \"was originally made of iron, and was used 'for pointing the way' and also 'for guarding against the unexpected,' i.e. for self-defence. It was, in fact, a kind of blunt sword, and traces of basket-work are still to be found inside what must have been the sword-guard.\" \n\nIn the Ming dynasty (1368–1644 AD), \"ruyi\" became popular as ornaments or gifts symbolizing blessings and good luck. The ca. 1627 AD \"Zhangwuzhi\" 長物志 \"Treatise on Superfluous Things\", by Ming painter Wen Zhenheng, discussed \"ruyi\" aesthetics.\n\nThe \"ruyi\" was used in ancient times to give directions or to protect oneself from the unexpected. It was for this reason that it was made or iron, and not on the basis of strictly aesthetic considerations. If you can obtain an old iron \"ruyi\" inlaid with gold and silver that sparkle now and then, and if it has an ancient dull color, this is the best. As for \"ruyi\" made of natural branches or from bamboo and so on, these are all worthless. (tr. Kieschnick 2003:151) \n\nDuring the Qing dynasty (1644–1912 AD), \"ruyi\" scepters became luxuriant symbols of political power that were regularly used in imperial ceremonies, and were highly valued as gifts to and from the Emperor of China. Since 3 and 9 are considered lucky numbers in Chinese culture, Qing craftsmen elaborated the traditional handle and head type \"ruyi\" into two-headed \"sanjiang-ruyi\" 三鑲如意 \"3-inlay \"ruyi\"\" with precious stones set in both heads and middle of the handle and \"jiujiu-ruyi\" 九九如意 \"9-9 \"ruyi\"\" presentational sets of nine. The Qianlong Emperor presented a \"ruyi\" to the British ambassador George Macartney in 1793, and in his description (quoted by Kieschnick 2003:139-140), \"It is a whitish, agate-looking stone, about a foot and a half long, curiously carved, and highly prized by the Chinese, but to me it does not appear in itself to be of any great value.\"\n\nDuring the historical evolution of Chinese \"ruyi\" \"as desired\", they have been used as backscratchers, ritual objects in Buddhism and later Daoism, pointers for public speakers, prized icons of political power and wealth, and auspicious gifts expressing best wishes.\n\nIn Chinese art, \"ruyi\" scepters often appear as attributes of Buddhist saints and Daoist \"xian\". The god of prosperity Cai Shen 財神 is often depicted holding a ruyi. Stylized repetitions of the shape are incorporated as a motif in the depiction of heavenly clouds. \"Ruyi\" symbolize achieving prosperity in \"fengshui\" practice. The \"ruyi\" shape appears as a motif in decorative knots, Oriental rug patterns, folk artifacts, and even modern corporate logos. Stylized \"ruyi\" often function as a kind of ante-fixae or palmette in traditional and modern architecture.\n\nTwo types of \"ruyi\" are seen in Chinese Buddhist art. The early \"ruyi\" was common in Buddhist sculpture and painting from the late Six dynasties (220–589) through the Tang dynasty (618–906). It was a slender stick, varying from about 15 to 24 inches, which widened and curved slightly at one end. Not only were these utensils frequently portrayed by artists and sculptors, but the Shōsōin treasure house of Tōdai-ji temple, in Nara, has preserved several 8th-century \"ruyi\" (Davidson 1950:242). The modern \"ruyi\", which first appeared in the art of the Song dynasty (960–1279) has two forms. The first type shows minor elaborations upon the basic slender-handled structure of the early \"ruyi\", but the slight curve at the top was exaggerated into a decorative ornament, a medallion-like form, frequently a stylized fungus. The second type of contemporary \"ruyi\" shows a radical change, in addition to the decorated end, two other smaller inlaid plaques or medallions, with one at the middle of the handle and the other at the base. Variations occur where the center medallion becomes a rectangle, or the second is omitted (Davidson 1950:242-243).\n\nIn early Chinese and Japanese Buddhist art, the bodhisattva Manjusri is usually depicted holding a sword (representing wisdom that cuts through ignorance), except in representations of his \"Vimalakirti Sutra\" discussion with the layman Vimalakirti, when Manjusri holds a \"ruyi\" scepter (Davidson 1950:240). This representation expanded in the 10th century, concurrent with the change in \"ruyi\" forms, and holding a \"ruyi\" became an attribute of other divinities as well as Chinese emperors (Davidson 1950:244).\n\nBerthold Laufer (1912: 339) believed the first Chinese representation of a \"ruyi\" was in an 8th-century Mañjuśrī painting by Wu Daozi, which showed it held in his right hand taking the place of the usual sword. Laufer noted the artistic similarly between the curved handle of a \"ruyi\" and the long stem of a lotus blossom, which was frequently depicted in the hands of Bodhisattvas, e.g., the Longmen Grottoes.\nI do not mean to say that the Buddhist emblem called \"Ju-i\" has developed from the lotus, though I think that the alternation of both is suggestive. But it is not necessary at all to assume that the Chinese \"Ju-i\" in general is of Buddhist origin... It may very well be that the implement is Chinese in origin and even prebuddhistic, and that, as in so many other things, a kind of compromise took place, resulting in the assimilation and amalgamation of two ideas and two forms. (1912:339) \nAdmitting that the \"original significance of this implement has been lost long ago\", Laufer hypothesized that the \"ruyi\" may have developed from a ritual jade that began as a Zhou dynasty \"symbol of light, generative power and fertility\".\n\nTwo of the emperors in the famous \"Thirteen Emperors Scroll\" by Yan Liben (d. 673) are holding \"ruyi\" (Davidson 1950:247), Emperor Wen of Chen (r. 559–566) and Emperor Xuan of Chen (r. 569–582).\n\nJapanese painters variously pictured Manjusri holding a \"ruyi\" in either hand (Laufer 1912:338). Sesshū Tōyō (1420–1506) showed one in his left hand and nothing in his right. Kichizan Minchō 吉山明兆 (1352–1431) and Kanō Sanraku (1559–1635) showed the Bodhisattva with a \"ruyi\" in his right and a book-roll in his left. A 12th-century Manjusri painting attributed to the Kose School a sword in his right and a sacred lotus-flower in his left hand.\n\nWith the introduction of Buddhism to China, scholars used Chinese \"ruyi\" to translate various Sanskrit terms, which Buddhism in Japan subsequently borrowed as \"nyoi\". The primary terms and Chinese/Japanese translations are:\nFirst, the \"anuruddha\"/\"ruyi\"/\"nyoi\" scepter is defined in the \"Digital Dictionary of Buddhism\":\nAn instrument held, especially by the abbot of a temple, during ceremonies and sermons shaped as a short staff curled in an S-shape and made out of wood, or more precious materials, such as ivory. One end is broader than the other, and often has a metal plate with a decorative cloud-shaped stamp. It is said to originally have been a back-scratcher that was carried by Buddhist monks.\n\nIn some schools of Zen like Sanbo Kyodan, the ceremonial scepter of a \"rōshi\" is called \"kotsu\" instead of \"nyoi\".\nThe scepter has a slight S-shaped curve, like a human spinal column. The rōshi uses the \"kotsu\", for example, to emphasize a point in a \"teishō\", to lean on when sitting, or also occasionally to strike a student. (Diener, Erhard, and Fischer-Schreiber 1991:119) \n\nSecond, the divine \"kalpavriksha\"/\"ruyishu\"/\"nyoiju\" is a wishing tree in Hindu mythology. The Buddhist translator Samuel Beal (1884:105) explained it denotes \"power to produce whatever was wished\". The Chinese Buddhist monk Yi Jing 義凈, who travelled in India from 673 to 695, translated \"kalpavriksha\" as \"ruyishu\" in describing the Uposatha day celebration (tr. Takakusu 1896:49), \"Then gifts are distributed. Sometimes the host provides a 'wishing tree' (Kalpa-vriksha), and gives it to the priests\". Since it is unlikely that a real tree could have been given, Davidson (1950:247) notes that \"some sort of symbolic tree was deemed appropriate as a gift to a Buddhist priest.\" \n\nThird, the legendary \"cintamani\" \"wish-fulfilling jewel; jewel that grants all desires\" is translated either with \"zhu\"/\"shu\" 珠 \"pearl; bead\" or \"baozhu\"/\"hōju\" 寶珠 \"precious pearl; jewel\". This famous term is frequently used in literature and art. The \"Digital Dictionary of Buddhism\" explains:\nA \"maṇi\"-jewel; magical jewel, which manifests whatever one wishes for (Skt. \"maṇi\", \"cintā-maṇi\", \"cintāmaṇi-ratna\"). According to one's desires, treasures, clothing and food can be manifested, while sickness and suffering can be removed, water can be purified, etc. It is a metaphor for the teachings and virtues of the Buddha. … Said to be obtained from the dragon-king of the sea, or the head of the great fish, Makara, or the relics of a Buddha.\nErik Zürcher (1997:407) suggests that association between \"ruyi\" and the legendary \"ruyibao\" \"wish-fulfilling gem\" explains the dichotomy between it being both a mundane backscratcher and a Buddhist symbol.\n\nThe ca. 1150 AD \"Fusō ryakki\" 扶桑略記 \"Brief History of Fusang\" by Kōen 皇圓, the teacher of Hōnen, recounts a Japanese \"nyoi-hōju\" legend involving the monk Foshi \"Buddha's Vow\" (Japanese \"Bussei\").\nThere lived in Northern India a Buddhist abbot, \"Buddha's vow\" by name, who for the sake of mankind sought the \"Precious pearl which grants all desires\". He went on board a ship and, when in the midst of the sea, by Buddha's power called up the Dragon-king. After having bound him by means of mystic formulae (tantras), he required the pearl from him, whereupon the dragon, unable to escape, took the pearl from his head and prepared to hand it over to the priest. The latter stretched out his left hand, at the same time making the \"sword-sign\"', a mudrā (mystic finger-twisting), with his right hand. The Dragon-king, however, said: \"In former times, when the Dragon-king Sāgara's daughter gave a precious pearl to Cākyamuni, the latter received it with folded hands; why should a pupil of the Buddha accept it with one hand?\" Then the priest folded his hands, giving up the mudrā, and was about to take the pearl, when the Dragon-king, no longer suppressed by the mystic sign, freed himself from his bands and ascended to the sky, leaving the abbot behind with empty hands, and destroying his boat. The only man who was saved was the priest himself. Afterwards the same abbot met Bodhidharma, the patriarch, who came across the sea from Southern India (in 526), and together they went to Japan. (tr. de Visser 1913:189) \n\nTwo additional Sino-Japanese Buddhist translations are:\n\nIn addition to its use in Buddhist terminology, the Chinese word has other meanings. \"Ruyi\" can be a proper noun.\n\n\nBesides Prince Liu Ruyi (above), Ruyi is used in other personal names.\n\n\"Ruyi\" can also be a place name.\n\n\nIn modern Japanese usage, the loanword \"nyoi\" 如意 \"as desired; as [one] wishes\" means \"ease; comfort; freedom\" or \"(Buddhist) priest's staff\".\n\nA few Buddhist temples in Japan are named with \"Nyoi\".\n\nBesides temples, some other proper names include\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9881376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9881376", "title": "Sleepers, Wake!", "text": "Sleepers, Wake!\n\nSleepers, Wake! Technology and the Future of Work is a book written by Barry Jones, originally published in 1982 and reprinted many times. A revised and updated edition was published in 1995.\n\nBased on the premise that technologically advanced nations are currently passing through a post-industrial or information revolution, Jones analyzes the unique threats and opportunities of the sudden rise in information to the field such as manufacturing, service employment, and basic income.\n\nJones argues that science and technology have changed the quality, length, and direction of life in the past century far more than politics, education, ideology, or religion. Therefore, inventors such as Thomas Edison and Henry Ford have shaped human experience more broadly and enduringly than Lenin and Hitler.\n\nSome of the book's key points, such as the claim that technological innovation is a major component of economic growth, are more widely accepted now than in 1982. But, to quote Barry Jones himself, \"The central thesis was that people were going to be living longer, far longer, \"but it was possible that they would be working a good deal less\".\" \n\nDue to the rising issues for the labour force, Jones proposed the need to assist workers in income support and choosing to stay or leave the workforce. However, Jones noted in the 1990 edition that the Labor government did not pursue the idea of basic income when it won office in 1983.\n\n\"Sleepers, Wake!\" analyzes the major changes in the workforce and presents the possible political programs to assist the society in profiting from the technological advancements.\n\nThe fourth edition uses 1991 Commonwealth census data as confirmation of his thesis about changes in the labour force.\n\nBarry Jones was Australia's Minister for Science in the Hawke government from 1983 to 1990.\n"}
{"id": "38798417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38798417", "title": "Technoself studies", "text": "Technoself studies\n\nTechnoself studies, commonly referred to as TSS, is an emerging, interdisciplinarity domain of scholarly research dealing with all aspects of human identity in a technological society focusing on the changing nature of relationships between the human and technology. As new and constantly changing experiences of human identity emerge due to constant technological change, technoself studies seeks to map and analyze these mutually influential developments with a focus on identity, rather than technical developments. Therefore, the self is a key concept of TSS. The term \"technoself\", advanced by Luppicini (2013), broadly denotes evolving human identity as a result of the adoption of new technology, while avoiding ideological or philosophical biases inherent in other related terms including cyborg, posthuman, transhuman, techno-human, beman (also known as bio-electric human), digital identity, avatar, and homotechnicus though Luppicini acknowledges that these categories \"capture important aspects of human identity\". Technoself is further elaborated and explored in Luppicini's \"Handbook of Research on Technoself: Identity in a Technological Environment\".\n\nTechnoself evolved from early groundwork in identity studies, philosophy of mind, and cognitive science. René Descartes is often credited as one of the first identity theorists of Modernity to question the material world and the certainty of knowledge from the self. Despite heavy criticism, the question he posed regarding the necessary relation between the mind and body is still considered a prevalent theme in contemporary discussions of identity and technology. Another major development in identity studies came from early social psychology, sociology and psychoanalysis. Beginning with Freud, the psychoanalytic tradition shed some light on the dynamics of identity and personality development. Erving Goffman expanded the inquiry of identity with his dramaturgical theory, which emphasized the centrality of the social realm and the notion of self-presentation to identity. Later, Foucault further expanded the area of inquiry by contemplating how technologies could facilitate the emergence of new ways of relating to oneself.\n\nThe most entrenched area of technoself studies is revolved around ontological considerations and conceptualizations of technoself. The effort to identify the essence of human being is frequent in philosophical circles and is entrenched within emerging theoretical scholarship on technoself. DeGrazia's (2005) examination on identify/numerical identity to shed light on the ethics of human enhancement. According to DeGrazia, human identity is divided into two parts: 1) numerical identity (concerns the continuity of an individual as the same object over time or across procedure), and 2) narrative identity (concerns the changes in self-perception experienced by an individual over time). By dividing human identity into two parts, DeGrazia is facilitating a discussion on the ethics of human enhancements. Meanwhile, Croon Fors(2012) research on the entanglement of the self and digitalization have helped frame ontological considerations related to the conceptualization of technoself studies. Furthermore, the changing nature of identity is a common theme within technoself studies. As a result, this has given way for scholars to analyze questions such as: How are advances in sensing technologies, biometrics, and genetics changing the way we define and recognize identity? How are technologies changing the way people define themselves and present themselves in society? These types of questions are being heavily analyzed as the conceptualization of identity is changing rapidly.\n\nCentral to the understanding of the development of technoself studies as a field of research is the idea that human identity is shaped by the adoption of new technologies and the relationship between humans and technology. Advancements in digital technology have recently forced researchers to consider the conception of the self in relation to the increasing reliance of society on the use of technologies (such as cellphones, tablets, and social media) in daily tasks in peoples' personal and professional lives. New technologies, particularly computer-mediated communication tools, have raised questions related to identity in relationship to privacy issues, virtual identity boundaries, online fraud, citizen surveillance, etc. These issues come as our perspective on technology shifts from one of functionality to one of interaction. According to John Lester, in the future, \"we won't simply enjoy using our tools, we will come to care for them\".\n\nThe noeme is a term coined in 2011 by biogerontologist Marios Kyriazis, and it denotes a \"combination of a distinct physical brain function and that of an outsourced virtual one\". A noeme is the intellectual \"networked presence\" of an individual within the global brain, a meaningful synergy between each individual human, their social interactions and artificial agents, globally connected to other noemes through digital communications technology. Kyriazis further clarifies that: \"\"...The noeme is structurally coupled with its medium, i.e. the computer/internet. It continuously generates its own organisation and specifies its operation and content. As a self-organising system it adjusts to external influences and reinvents itself in order to adapt to its environment i.e. it reproduces (self-replicates) horizontally in a process that can be termed 'noemic reproduction'. This digital intellectual manifestation of a person, if successful, will lead to others copying it, thus noemes are replicating... A noeme is not just a collection of single ideas or solitary intellectual achievements. It is the total sum of all individual cognitive efforts and active information-sharing accomplishments of a person, the intellectual standing of a person within the Global brain.\"\n\nA cyborg (cybernetic organism) is a term referring to individuals with \"both biological and artificial parts.\" Cyborgs are known as being half-human, half machine organisms, due to the fact that they are always connected with technology. This term, which was coined in 1960 by Manfred Clynes, refers to and acknowledges those beings whose abilities have been enhanced due to the presence and advancement of technology. The notion of cyborg has played a part in breaking down boundaries between humans and non-humans living within a technologically advanced society. For example, those who have installed pacemakers, hearing aids, artificial body parts, cochlear implants as well as other technologies that may aid in enhancing an organisms abilities and capacities to perform, either physically or mentally.\nHugh Herr, an American rock climber, engineer, and biophysicist, has successfully invented the next generation of cyborg (bionic limbs and robotic prosthetics). As the head of the Media Lab's Biomechatronics group in MIT, he shared his experience and presented the team achievement first time in a TED talk show.\n\nTranshuman is a concept that emerged as a result of the transhumanist movement which is centred around the notion of improving the abilities of human beings mainly through both 'scientific and technical means.' Unlike the posthuman concept, the notion of transhuman is based on human augmentation but does not commit itself to positing a new separate species. The philosophy of transhumanism was developed in the 1990s by British philosopher Max More who articulated the principles of transhumanism as a futurist philosophy. However, the transhuman philosophy has also been subject to scrutiny by prominent scholars such as Francis Fukuyama.\n\nPosthuman is a concept that aims towards signifying and characterizing a fresh and enhanced type of being. This organism is highly representative of a being that embraces drastic capabilities that exceed current human capabilities that are presently defining human beings. This posthuman state of identity has mainly resulted from the advancement of technological presence. According to Luppicini, posthuman capabilities \"suggest a new type of being over and above human. This compromises the neutrality needed for a clear conception of human identity in the face of human-technological integration.\" This concept aims towards enabling a brighter future concerned with gaining a better perception of the world through various viewpoints.\n\nHomo technicus is a term \"first coined by Galvin in 2003 to help refine the definition of human beings to more accurately reflect the evolving condition of human beings intertwined within advancing technological society\". It refers to the notion that human beings are technological by nature and evolve simultaneously with technology. Galvin states in his article titled \"On Technoethics\", \"mankind cannot do away with the technical dimension, going even to the\npoint of considering this part of its constitution: mankind is technical by nature. Technology is not an\naddition to man but is, in fact, one of the ways in which mankind distinguishes itself from animals.\" Luppicini builds upon the concept of homo technicus in his book \"Handbook of Research on Technoself: Identity in a Technological Society\". Luppicini feels that the notion of homo technicus contributes to the conception of humans as technoselves in two ways. First it helps to solidify the idea of technology as being a key component in defining humans and society and secondly it demonstrates the importance of technology as a human creation that aligns with human values. He further goes onto explain that human interactions with the material world around them helps to create meaning and this unique way of creating meaning has affected how humans have evolved as a species.\n\nNote: the term homo technicus was coined earlier than 2003. For instance, it was used by Russell E. Willis in his 1990 PhD dissertation for Emory University: Toward a Theological Ethics of Technology: An analysis in Dialogue with Jacques Ellul, James Gustafson, and the Philosophy of Technology. It was later used by Willis in \"Complex Responsibility in an Age of Technology,\" in Living Responsibly in Community, ed. Fredrick E. Glennon, et al. (University Press of America, 1997): 251ff. In both publications homo technicus is offered as a model for the responsible self in an age of pervasive technology.\n\nAvatars represent the individual, the individual's alter ego, or character(s) within virtual environments controlled by a human user. Avatars provide a unique opportunity to experiment with one's identity construction within virtual worlds (Turkle, 1995) and to do so with others\". Examples of avatars can include personas in online games or virtual life simulations such as Second Life.\n\nA new hybrid form of creature that results from an intertwinement between human and machine.\n\nA techno-sapien would be a slang term for a human being who is familiar and comfortable with technology. Someone who has the latest gadgets and electronic machinery would be techno-sapien.\n\nDigital identity is the data that uniquely describes a person or a thing and contains information about the subject's relationships. The social identity that an internet user establishes through digital identities in cyberspace is referred to as online identity.\n\nThe areas of focus in TSS are: philosophical inquiry and theoretical framing, digital identity and virtual life, human enhancement technologies, and their regulation. These areas of study have been influenced by extensive research, and input from an editorial advisory and review board over the course of several years.\n\nDigital identity and virtual life looks at how individuals explore, develop and represent their identities in online, virtual, or mediated environments. Research on virtual life and digital identities is concerned not only with how individuals relate to their own mediated identities, but also with how they relate to those of others. With the current popularity of social networking service sites, it is no surprise that TSS scholars have also begun studying the effects that such constant and mediated social connections have on identity. Topics that fall under this category have included intellectual disability, gender identity, and mass media in sport.\n\nCritical areas of research include: how individuals treat the identity of others in an online space; how people use media to develop and project their identity; and how digital representation can alter life meaning and identity (Luppicini, 2013). Such research examines the advantages and disadvantages of online life and digital identity construction.\n\nAreas of digital identity and virtual life have become quite popular, e.g. online avatars. Scholars are now focused on the role avatars play in identity exploration, priming behaviours, and self-presentation. Other research looks at the use of communication technologies by immigrant individuals as part of a digital diaspora. These scholars examine a trend in which diasporic immigrants who feel disconnected from their cultural identities have turned to digital technologies as a way to reconnect.\n\nThe term \"technoself\" is often used interchangeably with \"virtual self\". In this case, technoself is used to refer to a virtual manifestation of one's self. The ability to project one's self into a virtual world allows users to control their appearance and personality. Users are able to customize their virtual identity and craft a persona to their liking. The malleability of online identities allows users to not only create their own virtual self, but also to continually change and mold their online selves in ways impossible to do with their real identities. Users can edit and change their virtual selves' appearance and behavior to control other users' perception of them.\n\nThe ability to create and change your identity in this way, is due to anonymity. Anonymity is a paramount and dynamic feature of virtual social interaction within the online public sphere. As individuals are not required to reveal their real identity, they are able to explore new and undiscovered aspects of themselves. In this expansion of the self, anonymous individuals may try on various identities which break traditional social norms, without fear of retribution or judgment. This contributes to the creation of 'super-selves', through which individuals may amplify aspects of their projected identities in order to form an ideal expression of the self. The fact that the vast majority of virtual encounters are anonymous in nature allows a 'strangers on a train' phenomenon to\ntake place. Through invented and unknown personae, individuals are able to engage in self-disclosure, transvestism, and fantasies. However, this freedom may not be absolute, as there are many risks in participating in an online community, including identity theft and the potential linkage between anonymous and manifest identities. Anonymity also may have legal ramifications, making it difficult for law enforcement to maintain control over online communities. Tracking down online law-breakers is difficult when their identity is unknown. Anonymity also frees individuals so that they are able to behave in socially undesirable and harmful ways, which can result in forms of hate speech and cruel online behaviour. Lastly, anonymity also diminishes the integrity of information, and as a result, diminished the overall trust of online environment.\n\nMany online users choose to attempt anonymity through the use of avatars. Users associate themselves with avatars as digital representatives within a duplicated and simulated virtual community. The user's body is essentially plugged in within the avatar world, thereby creating the illusion of infinite \"space\" behind the computer screen. As a result, they provide the opportunity for users to manipulate their worlds and the spaces and objects with which they interact. Participation in online communities has resulted in the creation of a virtual economy based on the semantic value of digital products. This form of online consumerism is centered on the creation of avatars as extensions of the self. The purchase of symbolic goods for these avatars relates to the emotional and social value that the user holds for these items. These products may indicate roles or personality traits of players within a community and consist primarily of task oriented and nonfunctional items.\n\nLuppicini argues that the rise of online life creates serious questions on the advantages and disadvantages of online communities along with the challenges to online identity construction (Turkle, 1999). He notes the negative influence of the impersonality of virtual communities on offline interaction and the consequence of Internet addiction. Sherry Turkle states: \"We discovered the network – the world of connectivity – to be uniquely suited to the overworked and overscheduled life it makes possible. And now we look to the network to defend us against loneliness even as we want it to control the intensity of our connections\".\n\nComputer networking and smart technologies such as radio frequency identification (RFID), geographical information systems (GIS), and global positioning systems (GPS) are providing new tools and techniques for monitoring individuals and their behavior. The rise in these types of technologies has raised concerns over the invasion of privacy, and the misuse of information. That is because the networked identity of technoselves can be exploited by third parties who may want to gain access and control over personal information. Moreover, the implications of the sophisticated technologies for identifying and tracking people, the storage of this data, and the governmental use of surveillance to track suspicious types of people are significant issues in privacy/surveillance and TSS. The availability of related technologies (e.g. EyeTap, Memoto) to individuals (as opposed to governments or commercial interests) has also led to the phenomenon dubbed sousveillance, whereby individuals track or record authorities' activities either online or in real environments.\n\nLeading scholars in the study of surveillance include David Lyon and Mark Andrejevic. In addition to contributing to the advent of citizen journalism, the proliferation of sousveillance technologies has suggested a number of legal/regulatory, ethical, and social implications for democratic and consumer rights. A dramatic illustration of these concerns comes from University of Toronto Professor Steve Mann, a privacy rights advocate and pioneering engineer of such technologies. After being allegedly assaulted in a French McDonald's restaurant for wearing an augmented-reality digital eye glass device, Mann was, ironically, allegedly denied access to McDonald's own surveillance camera footage. This led to Mann's coinage of the term \"McVeillance\" for instances of surveillance/sousveillance double standards and to his contribution the proposal of the Mann-Wassell law in the New York legislature.\n\nHuman enhancement technology (HET) is the study of tools that would better and improve a human being's way of life. It seeks to advance and progress what humans already do within their normal lives. However, customarily it seeks to aid any illnesses and weaknesses in the body. Popular topics within this new area of study include, sex reassignment surgery, mood enhancers, genomics, and neuroenhancement. Enhancement within the workplace is a new topic of discussion, while the workplace should be adapting to the various types of human impairment, it seems that improving the workers is of more concern to corporations. Through the use of cyborg prosthetics one can assemble themselves in their own vision, any disfigurement or handicap can possibly disappear. Within the evolution of cyborg prosthetics a human is able to physically grasp things more easily, allowing more of the population to engage in whatever they choose. A large aspect of this technology stems from the ability to determine who may and may not benefit, as well as how access to these new technologies should be controlled.\n\nHuman bodies can now not only be improved upon through natural means, but through the effects of technology. This new form of enhancement is connected with what humans perceive of themselves, and as to how their own identity is created. A human operates based on their abilities; these capabilities are the factors and characteristics that create a personality. The augmentation of these aptitudes leads to a new human, who has a renewed sense of who they are. The term 'free to be me' is closely related to this new form of enhancement, wherein technological enhancements can be either cosmetic or reconstructive. Through the incorporation of medicine and technology \"...cosmetic surgery then becomes a technology through which the body is normalized and homogenized as much as enhanced\". A proper example relating to human enhancement and cyborgs could be the recently convicted Oscar Pistorius. In past years, Pistorius fought with the International Olympic Committee to have a place in the hurdles events of the 2012 Olympics in London. The controversy surrounding Pistorius extended to his artificial legs, and how they compared to the natural human anatomy; did Pistorius have an unfair advantage over his competitors? The ruling was left up to a scientific analysis of his legs and running stride which ultimately lead to his participation in the Olympic Games. Therefore, we've come to a time where decisions, and thus human panels, need to determine what is human, what is natural, and what is artificial.\n\nRights and privacy issues over human enhancement technology has given rise to challenging topics within technoself studies. For example, the consideration of ethical policies and guidelines in the deployment of HET is an emerging topic within TSS. Further, the question of access to HET, and where we draw the line between necessary therapeutic technologies, and frivolous human enhancement are being raised in TSS. Therefore, the emerging topic regarding the rights and privacy over HET is of great interest within TSS. Popular HET's topics in recent research academia include: Sex (re assignment) (Diamond & Sigmundson, 1997; Zucker, 2002), mood enhancers (Rabin, 2006), cognitive enhancers (Walker, 2008), genomics (Zwart, 2009), and neuroenhancement (Northoff,1996). A second line of inquiry explores social, legal, and ethical aspects of human enhancement and possible threats to human dignity that could arise from the implementation of human enhancements\n(Bostrom, 2005).\n\nSome critiques engage a discussion between the development of HET and the socio-economic environment. Francis Fukuyama, an American political scientist concerns about the future of HET might cause the extension of contradiction between the rich and poor within comparatively rich, industrialized nations because HET is likely to be a luxury product. At the moment, HET seems to be hard to be mainstream in public health services due to the price, which creates a deeper distinctions among those who can afford the technology and those who will remain disabled.\n\nTranshuman thought focuses on beliefs held that the fundamental transformation of the human condition will be through the development of various technology, which will eventually eliminate human aging and will enhance human capacities, both physical and mental. Believers in this theory think that the future of human development will see a new intelligent species that will be enhanced by the technological advances. They use these technological advances to approach various issues regarding the human experience, like morality and health issues. They see this convergence happening through the support of current technologies and the vision of technology in the future; using these advances to eventually make humans more than human, enhanced through this technology. Their central argument is that humans need to be able to choose whether or not this technology is used by them or not.\n\nThis theory expands on the notion of technoself, as transhumanism poses what to many who hold these beliefs is the natural evolution of the human condition. Many look to the history of technological advancements as proof that these future advancements are possible, at least in theory.\n\nAvatars are a visual representation of a user in an online environment. This representation may be an accurate physical representation of the user, or may be completely different. This online representation may affect the offline self. Pena and his colleagues explored a phenomenon known as the \"Proteus effect\" wherein \"avatars can prime negative attitudes and cognition in desktop virtual settings\". They conducted a study that demonstrated how the appearance and affiliations of an individual's online avatar can alter the individual's offscreen personality and attitudes. Pena's group used virtual group discussions to gauge the aggressiveness of individuals using avatars wearing black cloaks versus their control group counterparts wearing white and found more aggressive intentions and attitudes in the black cloak group.\n\nSimilar results were found in a second study that used Thematic Apperception Test studies to determine the differences between values and attitudes of a control group and a group using a Ku Klux Klan (KKK)-associated avatar. Individuals using the KKK-associated avatars were less affiliative and displayed more negative thoughts than the control group. Further support for Pena et al.'s work can be found in other studies that yielded similar results: \"Yee and Bailenson found that, in an immersive 3D environment, participants using avatars with more attractive faces walked closer and disclosed more information when compared to those using avatars with less attractive faces. In addition...participants using taller avatars tended to negotiate more forcefully in comparison to those using shorter avatars.\" A growing body of evidence supports how our online personas can affect our offline self; altering our attitudes and values.\n\nOnline anonymity is commonly described using the phrase \"On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog\". Online anonymity allows users to present different versions of themselves in online environments. Unconstrained by physical limitations, users are free to choose and construct their virtual form(s) and identities. Virtual spaces which foster such freedom and anonymity therefore allow users to depart from the expectations, norms, and behaviours of their daily lives. It can be said that this unlimited freedom of anonymous expression allows for the transfer of real world suppressed emotions to the online domain. However, if one continually chooses to express their true self anonymously online as opposed to in the real world via face to face interaction, which realm would be more 'real'? As extreme as this scenario may seem, one could say the suppression of norms and natural expression would deem the physical self the avatar, and the online avatar the true self.\n\nA user's online identity is a social identity that represents the user in the online environment, allowing a user a high level of control over their identity in a way that differs from the offline world. Turkle found that the level of control over creating an online identity also extends to the intensity of connections made in such virtual spaces, as users may engage and disengage at will. Dervin and Abbas note that Turkle, in her early work was \"one of the first to show how anonymity 'provides ample room for individuals to express unexplored parts of themselves' more easily than in face-to-face interaction\". Within this notion of being free in online anonymity, technoself studies also looks at what the element of hiding does to us. Turkle suggests that, \"our networked life allows us to hide from each other, even as we are tethered to each other\". Technoself studies explores what these profiles do to the human unconscious. While people are \"exposing\" themselves, they question their level of exposure and sharing compared to extent in what they are truly hiding in reality.\nFurthermore, when creating online profiles, people risk others' perceptions of the information shared and if they receive the messages that the sender intended. Without verbal communication misperceptions, messages can alter identity or personal development.\n\nAvatars can be an important element of the online presentation of the user. In many cases, \"avatars in blogging were created to accurately reflect their owners' physical appearance, lifestyle and preferences. By contrast, participants in the dating and gaming treatments accentuated certain aspects of their avatar to reflect the tone and perceived expectations of the context\". In other words, individuals often emphasize or downplay certain characteristics depending upon the context of their online interactions. These inconsistencies tend to be trivial, however. For instance, men tend to mildly exaggerate their height, while women often underestimate their weight. This is typically not an attempt to mislead others but to be as honest as possible while still presenting themselves in the best light.\n\nAccording to Vasalou & Joinson, although various online forums may present people with the opportunity to create (an) alternate persona(s), they typically choose to create an avatar or represent themselves in a way that is consistent with reality: \"In having equal access to everyday artifacts and fantasy options, participants were inclined to draw on existing self-views rather than grasping the opportunity to explore other personas\". Furthermore, Vasalou and Joinson also claim that, in the context of online communication, high self-awareness (as demonstrated by an avatar largely consistent with an individual's offline persona), contributes to a higher rate of interpersonal communication.\n\nOne consequence of online anonymity and creating false identities is the ability to \"catfish\". Catfishing is a recent internet phenomenon, of manipulating, deceiving and luring people into relationships, through creating an online fictional persona. In many cases these deceptions are used to create romantic or intimate affairs. Since the affair happens entirely through technology, one is able to hide their true identity and carry on the relationship through their made up character. The majority of these incidences happen through social media sites, such as Facebook, and internet dating sites where people are already looking for love, and therefore can be easily manipulated by peoples personas and deceptions.\n\nNew directions and opportunities in technoself research involving personalized robots and social integration of artificial creatures is becoming an increasing reality. Considering the work of pioneering computer scientists and robotics experts such a Rodney Brooks and Hiroshi Ishiguro, human interaction with personal and social robots reached mainstream audiences beginning with the popularization of robotic dolls and pets for children. Research by Sherry Turkle examines many of the effects of these social robots on children, middle and elderly. There are also robots for adults aimed at therapeutic (technotherapy), personal, and social applications (Paro Phobot, Roxxxy, etc.). These types of therapeutic robots are used in nursing homes and hospitals, with the purpose of creating an environment where one can nurture and communicate with an animal. This allows people in a lonely or isolated environment the ability to have something to care for and interact with that is also able to respond and interact back. This has shown to provide happiness and a larger sense of purpose for the individuals, even if for a short period of time. With personalized robots and the social integration of artificial intelligence, technoself is developing in children through relationships with robotic pets and related robotic technologies based on animals, objects, or people (Tamagotchi, Furby, AIBO, etc.). Current areas of interest in this topic are reported in Melson (2012), which provide helpful insights into children's views about robot pets, children's relationship with robotic pets and, conceptualizations of self-identity within child-robot relationships. Other research is focusing more on personalized robots for adults. If the trend towards the personalization of robots and social integration of artificial creatures continues, it is expected that this research will become more prevalent. David Levy, the artificial intelligence researcher in University of Maastricht contains the forecast of robot and human relationship in his thesis, \"Intimate Relationships with Artificial Partners\". In his interview Forecast: Sex and Marriage with Robots by 2050 with \"LiveScience\", Levy says :\"My forecast is that around 2050, the state of Massachusetts will be the first jurisdiction to legalize marriages with robots\". are real life experience suggesting that humans can develop an psychological level relationship with artificial subjects, even if the subject itself is not in any physical shape. Judith Newman wrote an article on \"New York Times\" about the relationship between the Siri system and her 13-year-old son who has autism. Newman says his son develops a close relationship with the system and learning to show affection to it even though he knows Siri is not 'real'. Newman suggest that Siri could be a potential companion to those children who have a hard time to communicate with people. Duggan (2016) describes how users already form relationships with technology that share many of the features of relationships between humans. These relationships have important implications for the future of healthcare as interactive technology increasingly replaces roles traditionally filled by humans.\n\nHuman enhancement regulation, governance, and legal concerns has become another growing concern for the opportunity of TSS research. According to Saner and Geelen (2012), there is one framework to guide technoself governance which distinguishes six different approaches to which emerging technologies may affect human identity:\n\nLuppicini posits that this sort of model could \"prove invaluable for guiding future decision making directed at the framing of HET regulation debates, as well as leveraging strategic planning and decision making concerning HET adaption standards.\" Technoethics relates to the ethical considerations concerning technology in society.Human enhancement improves aspects of human function and may temporarily or permanently overcome the limitations of the human body through natural or artificial means. The consequences of such technological alterations implies ethical questions such as the unfair physical and mental categorization of certain individuals. Therefore, further consideration will need to be associated with ethical questions surrounding the evolution of technology. With growing trends of artificial intelligence and technological devices, such as Google Glass, stricter regulation will be necessary. Furthermore, Elon Musk recently stated that \"We need to be careful with AI (artificial intelligence). Potentially more dangerous than nukes\", meaning that there may be need to worry about the evolution of technology, and specifically how humans employ it to their benefit.\n\n"}
{"id": "48456193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48456193", "title": "Territory-wide System Assessment", "text": "Territory-wide System Assessment\n\nThe Territory-wide System Assessment (Abbreviation: TSA; ) is an assessment introduced by the Education Commission in the report of \"Reform Proposal for the Education System in Hong Kong\" in September 2000.\nThe \"Territory-wide System Assessment\" is held in June every year since 2004 for students of Primary 3, Primary 6 (implemented in alternate year starting from 2011) and Secondary 3. The \"Territory-wide System Assessment\" is designed for facilitating learning and teaching after evaluating the average learning standard of the students in the subject of Chinese language, English language and Mathematics at the end of key stage 1-3.\n\nThe \"Territory-wide System Assessment\" (TSA) is a territory-level assessment launched and administered by the Education Bureau (Chinese:) since 2004. The aims of the \"Territory-wide System Assessment\" is to objectively assess the basic learning competencies and learning progress of the students at different stages of learning. The capabilities of students are analysed through the \"Territory-wide System Assessment\" in order to improve the effectiveness in learning and teaching. Educational policies can be reviewed with the help of the data collected through the \"Territory-wide System Assessment\".\n\nThe \"Territory-wide System Assessment\" is conducted in the form of pencil and paper (except Chinese and English oral assessment) and the examined subjects are Chinese Language, English Language and Mathematics. The \"Territory-wide System Assessment\" is compulsory for all Primary 3, Primary 6 and Secondary 3 students from government-subsidised schools. The assessment results of the students with intellectual disabilities, e.g. suffering from dyslexia or mental retardation can be excluded after getting medical approval.\n\nThe assessment of Chinese language is divided into 5 sub-papers each with a focus on a specific skill of reading, writing, listening, oral and multimedia information respectively. Meanwhile, candidates from primary three, six and secondary three will be chosen randomly to apply the test of multimedia information in every school.\n\nAssessment Time: 40 minutes\n\nNumber of questions: 2\n\nQuestion Form: short essay (mainly narrative, descriptive essay) and practical writing (letter, invitation card, memo, notice, diary, journal, etc)\n\nWord Limitation: No\n\nAssessment Time: 75 minutes\n\nNumber of Questions: 2\n\nQuestion Form:Specified writing and practical writing (mainly announcement, notice, speech and reports, etc)\n\nWord Limitations: No\n\n\nAssessment Time: 25 minutes\n\nNumber of Questions: two short stories and one to two practical writings (depends on the questions’ nature)\n\nType of passages: narrative, exposition and practical writing (letter, invitation card, etc)\n\nQuestion Form: Multiple choice questions, fill in the blanks, sentence ordering, short questions, etc\n\nAssessment Time: 30 minutes\n\nType of passages: Vernacular Chinese (Narration, Description, Exposition, Argumentation, and lyrical literature. etc), Classical Chinese, practical passage\n\nQuestion Form: Multiple choice questions\n\nAssessment Time: 15 minutes\n\nParticipants: 30 students\n\nType of Video: two to three parts (depends on the videos’ nature)\n\nVideo Format: video will only be played once\n\nQuestion Form: Multiple choice questions\n\nAssessment Time: 15 minutes\n\nParticipants: all secondary three students\n\nVideo Format: video will only be played once\n\nQuestion Form: Multiple choice questions\n\nAssessment Time: approximately four to eight minutes\n\nParticipants: twelve to twenty-four students\n\nForm of Assessment:\nAssessment Time: approximately seven to eleven minutes\n\nParticipants: twelve to twenty-four students\n\nForm of Assessment:\n\nThe assessment of English language in primary school is divided into 3 sub-papers each with a focus on a specific skill of reading and writing, listening and speaking respectively. The assessment of English language in secondary school is divided into 4 sub-papers each focus on a specific skill of reading, writing, listening and speaking respectively. Candidates from every school will be chosen randomly to attend the speaking assessment.\n\nThe question form of Reading part is Multiple choice question. The Writing part requires to write an essay based on a topic or write a story based on the pictures given.\n\nAssessment time: 25 minutes\n\nWord limit for Writing part: Write about 30 words\n\nAssessment time: 50 minutes\n\nWord limit for Writing part: Write about 80 words\n\nAssessment time for Reading part: 30 minutes\n\nAssessment time for Writing part: 40 minutes\n\nWord limit for Writing part: Write about 150 words.\n\nThe question form of primary school assessment is Multiple choice question while the question forms of secondary school assessment are Multiple choice question and filling the blanks. Each recording will be played twice.\n\nAssessment time: 20 minutes\n\nAssessment time: 30 minutes\n\nAssessment time: 25 minutes\n\nPreparation time: 2 minutes\n\nAssessment time: 3 minutes\n\nThe assessment is divided into two parts. Part 1 is reading alone and part 2 is answering one question asked by teacher.\n\nPreparation time: 2 minutes\n\nAssessment time: 3 minutes\n\nThe assessment is divided into two parts. Part 1 is reading alone and part 2 is answering one question asked by teacher.\n\nPreparation time: 3 minutes\n\nAssessment time: 2 minutes\n\nCandidates are required to give an individual presentation\n\nThe assessment of Mathematics is provided in both Chinese and English according to different needs of students. Every student from all schools have to apply this assessment.\n\n\n2009\n\nSee also: 2009 flu pandemic in Hong Kong\n\n2014\n\n2015\n"}
{"id": "46832112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46832112", "title": "The Crimson Thread of Abandon", "text": "The Crimson Thread of Abandon\n\nThe Crimson Thread of Abandon is a collection of short fiction by Shūji Terayama, translated into English by Elizabeth L. Armstrong and published by the University of Hawai'i Press in 2013. The book contains a total of 20 stories. The stories in the first half of the book originate from the collection \"Stories Sewn Up with a Red Thread\".\n\nRobert Anthony Siegel wrote in \"Three Percent\" that the translation had a \"graceful\" approach to wordplay and puns, and that the translator did her task \"with sensitivity and skill\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "543095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543095", "title": "The Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations", "text": "The Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations\n\nThe Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations is a descriptive list which was created by Georges Polti to categorize every dramatic situation that might occur in a story or performance. To do this Polti analyzed classical Greek texts, plus classical and contemporaneous French works. He also analyzed a handful of non-French authors. In his introduction, Polti claims to be continuing the work of Carlo Gozzi, who also identified 36 situations.\n\nThis list was published in a book of the same name, which contains extended explanations and examples. The original French-language book was written in the 19th century. An English translation was published in 1916 and continues to be reprinted to this day.\n\nThe list is popularized as an aid for writers, but it is also used by dramatists, storytellers and many others. Other similar lists have since been made.\n\nEach situation is stated, then followed by the necessary elements for each situation and a brief description.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43603744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43603744", "title": "Translations of One Thousand and One Nights", "text": "Translations of One Thousand and One Nights\n\nThe translations of \"One Thousand and One Nights\" have been made into virtually every major language of the world. They began with the French translation by Antoine Galland (titled \"Les mille et une nuits\", finished in 1717). Galland's translation was essentially an adapted Arabic manuscript of Syrian origins and oral tales recorded by him in Paris from a Maronite Arab from Aleppo named Youhenna Diab or Hanna Diab.\n\nThe first English translation appeared in 1706 and was made from Galland's version; being anonymous, it is known as the Grub Street edition. It exists in two known copies kept in the Bodleian Library and in the Princeton University Library. Since then several English reissues appeared simultaneously in 1708. As early as the end of the 18th century the English translation based on Galland was brought to Halifax, Montreal, Philadelphia, New York and Sydney. Galland-based English translations were superseded by that made by Edward William Lane in 1839–41. In the 1880s an unexpurgated and complete English translation, \"The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night\", was made by Richard Francis Burton.\n\nThe original scattered Arabic texts were collected in four corpuses: the so-called Calcutta I or the Shirwanee Edition (1814–18, 2 volumes), Bulaq or the Cairo Edition (1835, 2 volumes), Breslau Edition (1825–38, 8 volumes) and Calcutta II or the W.H. Macnaghten Edition (1839–42, 4 volumes). Some translations starting from Galland were censored due to lewd content.\n\nGalland based his translation on a three- or four-volume manuscript from the 14th or 15th century. Three volumes of that manuscript were placed in the National Library of France. Galland's translation altered the style, tone and content of the Arabic text. Designed to appeal, it omitted sophisticated or dark elements while enhancing exotic and magical elements and became the basis of most children's versions of \"One Thousand and One Nights\".\n\nIn 1926–1932 a lavishly decorated 12-volume edition of J. C. Mardrus' translation, titled \"Le livre des mille nuits et une nuit\", appeared. Soviet and Russian scholar Isaak Filshtinsky, however, considered Mardrus' translation inferior to others due to presence of chunks of text, which Mardrus conceived himself to satisfy the tastes of his time. According to Robert Irwin, \"Mardrus took elements which were there in the original Arabic and worked them up, exaggerating and inventing, reshaping the \"Nights\" in such a manner that the stories appear at times to have been written by Oscar Wilde or Stéphane Mallarmé\". In response to criticism of his translation by academic Arabists, Mardrus promised to produce a tome of learned commentary and justificatory pieces which he, however, failed to do.\n\nUnlike the Grub Street version, Jonathan Scott made the first literal translation of Galland. Titled \"The Arabian Nights Entertainments\", it appeared in 1811. Then Henry Torrens translated the first fifty nights from Calcutta II, which were published in 1838. Having heard that Edward William Lane began his own translation, Torrens abandoned his work. Lane translated from the Bulaq corpus. He declared that \"Galland has excessively perverted the work\". According to Lane, Galland's \"acquaintance with Arab manners and customs was insufficient to preserve him always from errors of the grossest description\". Working with the Bulaq corpus, Lane occasionally cross-checked against Calcutta I and Breslau corpus. His translation, however, became incomplete. In 1923 a translation by Edward Powys Mathers based on the French translation by J. C. Mardrus appeared.\n\nAnother translation attempt was made by John Payne (\"The Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night\", 1882–84). He, however, printed just 500 copies for private circulation and ceded the work to Richard Francis Burton. Burton's translation (\"The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night\", 1885–88) enjoyed a huge public success, but at the same time was criticized for its reportedly archaic language and excessive erotic details. As of 2004, Burton's translation remains the most complete version of \"One Thousand and One Nights\" in English. It is also generally considered as one of the finest unexpurgated translations from Calcutta II. It stood as the only complete translation of the Macnaghten or Calcutta II edition (Egyptian recension) until the Malcolm C. and Ursula Lyons translation in 2008.\n\nIn 1825 a Galland-based translation was made by Maximilian Habicht. Later, however, Duncan Black MacDonald showed that the Tunisian provenance of a manuscript Habicht claimed to use during the translation was a forgery which Habicht committed himself. In 1839–42 \"One Thousand and One Nights\" were translated into German by Gustav Weil. In 1895–97 Max Henning published another German translation in 24 small volumes; the first seven volumes were based on the Bulaq edition, while volumes 18–24 were largely translated from Richard Francis Burton. In 1912–13 another translation was made by Felix Paul Greve.\n\nIn 1921–28 Enno Littmann produced a six-volume translation of the whole \"One Thousand and One Nights\" on the basis of Calcutta II into German, including the poetry. At the same time he translated one lewd portion into Latin, not German. Nonetheless, Isaak Filshtinsky considered Littmann's translation to be \"the most complete and accomplished\". Robert Irwin called it \"the best German translation\".\n\nThere have been several Dutch translations made from the French editions of Galland and Mardrus. In 1999 the final volume of \"De vertellingen van duizend-en-één nacht\" was published; the first an so far only Dutch translation from the Arabic texts by Dr. Richard van Leeuwen. For his translation Van Leeuwen used the Bulaq-edition (Cairo 1835), the Calcutta-edition (1842) and the edition by Mahdi (Leiden 1984).\n\nIn 1949 Arabist Francesco Gabrieli, who headed the team of anonymous translators, produced the four-volume Italian translation, based on Bulaq collated with Calcutta II.\n\nThe first Russian translation of \"One Thousand and One Nights\" was made by Alexey Filatyev in 1763–1774. It was based on Galland's translation and consisted of 12 volumes. Later Russian translations were also based on European translations. For instance, a three-volume translation by Yulia Doppelmayr (1889–1890) was based on Galland, the six-volume translation by Lyudmila Shelgunova (1894) was based on that by Edward William Lane and an anonymous translation (1902–1903) was based on Mardrus.\n\nThe first Russian translation directly from the Arabic source (from Calcutta II) was made by Mikhail Salye and published in eight volumes by Academia in 1929–1939. Salye also translated into Russian seven tales not contained in Calcutta II (from the manuscript in the National Library of Russia).\n\nThe stories about Sinbad the Sailor were translated into Spanish already in 1253. Old Spanish translations were made particularly by Pedro Pedraza (from Galland), Vicente Blasco Ibáñez (from Mardrus), Eugenio Sanz del Valle, and Luis Aguirre Prado, Alfredo Domínguez (from Mardrus). More accurate translations were made by the Arabists Juan Vernet and Rafael Cansinos Asséns.\n\nA selection of stories from \"One Thousand and One Nights\", titled \"Yi Qian Lin Yi Ye\" appeared in 1900. In 1906 a four-volume translation was made by Xi Rou, published in Shanghai.\n\nIn the 1930 new translations, primarily from Bulaq, appeared under the title \"Yi Qian Lin Yi Ye\". In that period a five-volume translation by Na Xun was made. In the 1950s Na Xun produced another, three-volume translation titled \"Yi Qian Lin Yi Ye\".\n\nIn 1982 a six-volume Beijing edition of Na Xun was published. It became the source of the 1980s two-volume translation titled \"Tian Fang Ye Tan\", which appeared in Taipei.\n\n\"One Thousand and One Nights\" appeared in Japanese in as early as 1875 – the two-volume translation, made by , was titled and published by in Tokyo. In the preface Nagamine wrote that he used G. F. Townsend's \"The Arabian Nights's Entertainments\", which was based on Jonathan Scott's English translation of Galland. Nagamine also used Edward William Lane's English translation as a supplement. The second Japanese translation by Inoue Tsutomu, titled \"Zensekai ichidai kisho\" (\"The Most Curious Book in the Whole World\"), appeared in 1883 and became more popular than Nagamine's.\n\nSubsequently other Japanese translations were made, but the first complete Japanese translation from Arabic was published in 1976–92 by Shinji Maejima and Ikeda Osamu, in nineteen volumes (titled \"Arabian Naito\").\n\nIn the years 1947-1971 Arabist Yosef-Yoel Rivlin produced a 32-volume Hebrew translation, based mainly on Bulaq. A selection of stories, translated by Hanna Amit-Kohavi, appeared in two volumes, in the years 2008 and 2011, under the title \"Leylot Arav\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29489695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29489695", "title": "Tucson artifacts", "text": "Tucson artifacts\n\nThe Tucson artifacts, sometimes called the Tucson Lead Crosses, Tucson Crosses, Silverbell Road artifacts, or Silverbell artifacts, were thirty-one lead objects that Charles E. Manier and his family found in 1924 near Picture Rocks, Arizona which were initially thought by some to be created by early Mediterranean civilizations that had crossed the Atlantic in the first century, but were later determined to be a hoax.\n\nThe find consisted of thirty-one lead objects, including crosses, swords, and religious/ceremonial paraphernalia, most of which contained Hebrew or Latin engraved inscriptions, pictures of temples, leaders' portraits, angels, and a dinosaur (inscribed on the lead blade of a sword). One contained the phrase \"Calalus, the unknown land,\" which was used by believers as the name of the settlement. The objects also have Roman numerals ranging from 790 to 900 inscribed on them, which were sometimes interpreted to represent the date of their creation. The site contains no other artifacts, no pottery sherds, no broken glass, no human or animal remains, and no sign of hearths or housing.\n\nOn September 13, 1924 Charles Manier and his father stopped to examine some old lime kilns while driving northwest of Tucson on Silverbell Road. Manier saw an object protruding about from the soil. He dug it out, revealing that the object was a -long lead cross which weighed . Between 1924 and 1930 additional objects were extracted from the caliche, a layer of soil in which the soil particles have been cemented together by lime. Caliche often takes a long period of time to form, but it can be made and placed around an article in a short period of time, according to a report written by James Quinlan, a retired Tucson geologist who had worked for the U.S. Geological Survey. Quinlan also concluded that it would be easy to bury articles in the soft, silt material and associated caliche in the lime kiln where the objects were found at the margin of prior trenches. The objects were believed, by their discoverer and main supporters, to be of a Roman Judeo-Christian colony existing in what is now known as Arizona between 790–900 AD. No other find has been formally established as placing any Roman colony in the area, nor anywhere else in North America.\n\nIn November 1924, Manier brought his friend Thomas Bent to the site and Bent was quickly convinced of the authenticity of the discovery. Upon finding the land was not owned, he immediately set up residence on the land in order to homestead the property. Bent felt there was money to be made in further excavating the site.\n\nThe first object removed from the caliche by Manier was a crudely cast metal cross that weighed ; after cleaning it was revealed to be two separate crosses riveted together. After his find, Manier took the cross to Professor Frank H. Fowler, Head of the Department of Classical Languages at the University of Arizona, at Tucson, who determined the language on the artifacts was Latin. He also translated one line as reading, \"Calalus, the unknown land\", from which the name of the supposed Latin colony was garnered.\n\nThe Latin inscriptions on the alleged artifacts supposedly record the conflicts of the leaders of Calalus against a barbarian enemy known as the \"Toltezus\", which some have interpreted as a supposed reference to the Mesoamerican Toltec civilization. However, the Latin on the artifacts appears to either be badly inflected original Latin, or inscriptions brazenly plagiarized from Classical authors such as Virgil, Cicero, Livy, Cornelius Nepos, and Horace, among several others. This has led many experts to condemn the artifacts as frauds. What is perhaps most suspicious, however, is that most of the inscriptions are identical to what appeared in widely available Latin grammar books, like \"Harkness's Latin Grammar\" and \"Allen and Greenough's Latin Grammar\", as well as dictionaries like \"The Standard Dictionary of Facts\".\n\nManier took the first item to the Arizona State Museum to be studied by archaeologist Karl Ruppert. Ruppert was impressed with the item, and went with Manier to the site the next day where he found a caliche plaque with some inscriptions including an 800 AD date. A total of thirty-one objects were found. Other contemporary scholars including George C. Valliant, a Harvard University archaeologist who visited the University of Arizona in 1928 and Bashford Dean, curator of arms and armor of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City thought the articles were fakes, Neil Merton Judd, curator of the National Museum at the Smithsonian Institution happened to be in Tucson at the time of the discovery of the objects and, after examining them, also thought they were fakes, proposing that they may have been created by \"some mentally incompetent individual with a flair for old Latin and the wars of antiquity\".\n\nIn the 1960s, Bent wrote a 350-page manuscript titled \"The Tucson Artifacts\" about the objects which is unpublished, but kept by the Arizona State Museum. Both Manier and Bent were supporters of the objects as a genuine archaeological find.\n\nLara Coleman Ostrander, a Tucson immigrant and high school history teacher studied the historical background of the research, and translated the alleged history of Calalus from the writings on the items. Geologist Clifton J. Sarle worked with Ostrander to present the Tucson Artifacts to the press and the academic profession.\n\nTucson University administrator and director of the Arizona State Museum Dean Byron Cummings led archaeologists at the university to the location where the items were found. He brought ten of the objects to the American Association for the Advancement of Science and showing them at museums and universities on the east coast. Astronomer Andrew E. Douglass, known for his work in dendrochronology also considered the items to be authentic.\n\nIn 1975, Wake Forest University professor Cyclone Covey re-examined the controversy in his book titled \"Calalus: A Roman Jewish Colony in America from the Time of Charlemagne Through Alfred the Great\". Covey was in direct contact with Thomas Bent by 1970, and planned to carry out excavations at the site in 1972, but was not allowed, due to legal complications preventing Wake Forest University from leading a dig at the site. Covey's book proposes that the objects are from a Jewish settlement, founded by people who came from Rome and settled outside of present day Tucson around 800 AD.\n\nProfessor Frank Fowler originally translated the Latin inscriptions on the first items and found that the inscriptions were from well known classical authors such as Cicero, Virgil and Horace. He researched local Latin texts available in Tucson at the time and found the inscriptions on the lead items to be identical to the texts available.\n\nDean Cumming's student and excavator, Emil Haury, closely examined scratches on the surface of the objects as they were removed from the ground and concluded that they were planted, based partly on a cavity in the ground which was longer than a lead bar removed from it. After Cummings became president of the university, his views changed in an unclear manner, possibly due to Haury's skepticism, or the increasing sentiment that the items were nothing more than a hoax and as university president had to take a different stand on the matter. George M. B. Hawley staunchly opposed Bent's views about the objects. Hawley even accused Ostrander and Sarle as perpetrators of the hoax.\n\nA local news article identified Timotéo Odohui as the possible creator of the items. Odohui was a Mexican boy who lived near the site and was a sculptor. The article mentions his possible connection to the site and his ability to craft lead objects. Bent wrote that a craftsman in the area had recalled the boy, his love for sculpture of soft metals and his collection of books on foreign languages, and told the excavators this.\n\nH. P. Lovecraft alludes to the Tucson artifacts in \"The Mound,\" a short story ghost-written for Zealia Bishop. Archaeologist and Lovecraft scholar Marc A. Beherec argues that the items influenced some of Lovecraft's other writings.\n\nThe Tucson artifacts were featured on The History Channel show \"America Unearthed\" in the episode titled \"The Desert Cross,\" on February 22, 2013. This episode was criticised for its methodology, its ignorance (or deliberate omission) of the complete text on the crosses, and its conclusions.\n\n"}
{"id": "47746639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47746639", "title": "Tuyet Nguyet", "text": "Tuyet Nguyet\n\nTuyet Nguyet (\"Snow Moon\") is the Vietnamese publisher, editor and founder of \"Arts of Asia\" magazine which has been published continuously since 1970. Nguyet conceived of the magazine after her brother was killed in the Vietnam War in 1969.\n\nNguyet was born in Tan An province, Vietnam, near the Mekong River in the south of the country. Her name means \"Snow Moon\" in English. Nguyet's father had attended university in Paris and graduated with a degree in agronomy. He was responsible for the introduction of fertilisers on the French model into Vietnamese rice farming. Her mother was a school teacher.\n\nNguyet was educated at the Lycee Maris Curie in Saigon. In 1955, she was awarded a scholarship to study Journalism at the Mundelein College in Chicago. She received her B.A. in journalism in 1958.\n\nIn 1959, Nguyet married Stephen Markbreiter (deceased), an English architect, and moved to Hong Kong. The couple had four sons between 1960 and 1969.\n\nIn Hong Kong, Nguyet developed her journalistic skills while writing for \"Asia Magazine\" (the Sunday magazine for the \"South China Morning Post\"), the \"Far Eastern Economic Review\", \"Agence France Presse\", and \"Modern Asia\".\n\nIn 1969, after her brother was killed in the Vietnam War, Nguyet began to plan a magazine about Asian arts and a preview edition of \"Arts of Asia\" magazine was published in 1970 with the first regular edition appearing in 1971. In the magazine, Nguyet sought to combine authoritative content from experts with detailed coverage of the Asian art market. Since its establishment the magazine has chronicled, through its saleroom reports and articles on collections and collectors, the expanding market for Asian art in Hong Kong. The executive editor of the magazine is Nguyet's son, Robin Markbreiter.\n\nIn 2006, Nguyet helped to set up a vetting committee for the Asia International Arts & Antiques Fair (AIAA 2006) at the AsiaWorld-Expo in Hong Kong.\n\nThe Nguyet-Markbreiters formed an art collection from the early 1970s which was particularly strong in paintings on glass and mirrors. Parts of the collection were sold by Bonhams in Hong Kong in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "44516833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44516833", "title": "Twelve Symbols national emblem", "text": "Twelve Symbols national emblem\n\nThe Twelve Symbols national emblem () was the state emblem of the Chinese Empire and the Chinese Republic from 1913 to 1928. It was based on the ancient Chinese symbols of the Twelve Ornaments.\n\nThe Empire of China during the Manchu-led Qing dynasty did not have an official state emblem, but the flag featured the azure dragon on a plain yellow field with a red sun of the three-legged crow in the upper left corner. It became the first national flag of China and is usually referred to as the Yellow Dragon Flag.\n\nFollowing the end of Manchu rule, new national symbols were deemed necessary by the leaders to represent the changed circumstances. The renowned writers Lu Xun, Qian Daosun, and Xu Shoushang from the Ministry of Education were tasked with designing a new national emblem. It was presented on August 28, 1912 and was adopted as national emblem in February 1913. President-Emperor Yuan Shikai continued its use during his short imperial reign from 1915 to 1916.\n\nCoins issued during this time feature the emblem. A variation of the emblem was shown on orders and illustrations.\n\nThe Northern Expedition led by General Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang party led to the overthrow of the fractious but legitimate Beiyang government in 1928. This ushered in a one-party state under the Kuomintang known as the Nanjing decade. The state emblem was therefore replaced with the Kuomintang party symbol Blue Sky with a White Sun.\n\nThe emblem is based on the ancient symbols of the Twelve Ornaments.\n\nThese are first mentioned as already ancient in the \"Book of Documents\" by Emperor Shun, who was one of the legendary Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors. Oral tradition holds that he lived sometime between 2294 and 2184 BCE. According to the book, the emperor wished for the symbols to be used on official robes of the state.\n\nThe symbols were considered most auspicious and therefore as a set were reserved only for the emperor to be shown on his ceremonial robes.\n\nThe national emblem arranges these symbols in such a way to reflect the order of achievement in western heraldry.\n\n\nThe dragon and phoenix represent the natural world. In yin and yang terminology, a dragon is male \"yang\" and the phoenix a female \"yin\". Therefore, the emperor was often identified as the dragon, while the empress was the phoenix. The inclusion of the phoenix into the national symbol, opposite but equal to the dragon, can be seen as a symbol of women being equal to men, and a visual and poignant representation of women's rights in the new China.\n\n\nThe mountains represent earth, the cups metal, the pondweed water, the rice grains wood, and fire, which are all representations of \"wu xing\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57634711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57634711", "title": "Twin Mirror", "text": "Twin Mirror\n\nTwin Mirror is an upcoming episodic adventure game developed by Dontnod Entertainment and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment, releasing in 2019 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.\n\n\"Twin Mirror\" is an adventure game played from a third-person view. Players control the investigative journalist Sam, who has returned to his hometown of Basswood, West Virginia. The environment is interactive and its objects are obtainable. Whom Sam speaks to is optional and, based on the state of his investigation, there are multiple endings to unlock. Players navigate between the real world and Sam's \"Mind Palace\" to discover clues. Sam's inner voice, the Double, may aid or harm the investigation.\n\nPartnering with publisher Bandai Namco, Dontnod Entertainment began developing \"Twin Mirror\" in 2016 with a separate team of senior developers. About forty people were working on it as of September 2018. Lead writer Matthew Ritter was influenced by adventure games like \"Beneath a Steel Sky\" and \"Space Quest\". Contrary to previous titles, Dontnod desired to have \"Twin Mirror\" be void of any supernatural elements. According to art director Pierre-Etienne Travers, the game's primary concept is duality. The decision to set it in a fictional American town, based on southern West Virginia, was to broaden its appeal.\n\n\"Twin Mirror\" was announced with a debut trailer in June 2018, set to be released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One the following year. It was later revealed that it would be an episodic title, with \"Lost on Arrival\" as the first of three.\n"}
{"id": "25757138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25757138", "title": "Vendetta (1989 video game)", "text": "Vendetta (1989 video game)\n\nVendetta is a 1989 beat 'em up video game released by System 3 for the Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64, and ZX Spectrum. \n\nA group of terrorists have kidnapped a professor working on a bomb as well as his daughter. A few weeks later, they have started to make impossible demands and have threatened to detonate a miniature nuclear weapon if the demands are not met. \n\nThe protagonist, initially armed with only a knife, decides to rescue both individuals. Along the way, he collects other weapons and evidence to convince other police officers to let him continue his work, as he heads to an army base, a booby-trapped airplane, and finally central park where the terrorists make the last stand. \n\n\"Vendetta\" was based on the same rendering method and display used by \"The Last Ninja\", but used a rewritten engine. This game engine was then used for the game \"Last Ninja 3\".\n\nVendetta received 93% from \"Zzap!64\".\n"}
{"id": "729612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=729612", "title": "Vocable", "text": "Vocable\n\nIn the broadest sense of the word, a vocable is any meaningful sound uttered by people, such as a word or term, that is fixed by their language and culture. However, use in the broad sense is archaic. The term is currently used for utterances which are not considered words, such as the English vocables of assent and denial, \"uh-huh\" and \"uh-uh\" , or the vocable of error, \"uh-oh\" . \n\nSuch non-lexical vocables are often used in music, for example \"la la la\" or \"dum dee dum\", or in magical incantations, such as \"abra-cadabra\". Many Native American songs consist entirely of vocables; this may be due to both phonetic substitution to increase the resonance of the song, and to the trade of songs between nations speaking different languages.\n\nVocables are common as pause fillers, such as \"um\" and \"er\" in English, where they have little formal meaning and are rarely purposeful. \n\nPseudowords that mimic the structure of real words are used in experiments in psycholinguistics and cognitive psychology, for example the nonsense syllables introduced by Hermann Ebbinghaus.\n\nThe proto-words of infants, which are meaningful but do not correspond to words of adult speech, are also sometimes called vocables.\n\n"}
{"id": "22105883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22105883", "title": "Welsh art", "text": "Welsh art\n\nWelsh art refers to the traditions in the visual arts associated with Wales and its people. Most art found in, or connected with, Wales is essentially a regional variant of the forms and styles of the rest of the British Isles, a very different situation from that of Welsh literature. The term Art in Wales is often used in the absence of a clear sense of what \"Welsh art\" is, and to include the very large body of work, especially in landscape art, produced by non-Welsh artists in Wales (or with a Welsh subject) since the later 18th century.\n\nPrehistoric Wales has left a number of significant finds: Kendrick's Cave, Llandudno contained the Kendrick's Cave Decorated Horse Jaw, \"a decorated horse jaw which is not only the oldest known work of art from Wales but also unique among finds of Ice Age art from Europe\", and is now in the British Museum. In 2011 \"faint scratchings of a speared reindeer\" were found on a cave wall on the Gower peninsula which probably date to 12,000–14,000 BC, placing them among the earliest art found in Britain. The Mold Gold Cape, also in the British Museum, and Banc Ty'nddôl sun-disc in the National Museum of Wales in Cardiff are likewise some of the most important British works of art from the Bronze Age. \nMany works of Iron Age Celtic art have been found in Wales. and the finds from the period shortly before and after the Roman conquest, which reached Wales in AD 74-8, are especially significant. Pieces of metalwork from Llyn Cerrig Bach on Anglesey and other sites exemplify the final stages of La Tène style in the British Isles, and the Capel Garmon Firedog is a spectacular luxury piece of ironwork, among the finest in Europe from the period. The Abergavenny Leopard Cup, from the decades after the conquest, was found in 2003, and shows the presence of imported Roman luxury products in Wales, perhaps belonging to a soldier.\n\nIn the Early Medieval period, the Celtic Christianity of Wales participated in the Insular art of the British Isles and a number of illuminated manuscripts survive, of which the 8th century Hereford Gospels and Lichfield Gospels are the most notable. The 11th century Ricemarch Psalter (now in Dublin) is certainly Welsh, made in St David's, and shows a late Insular style with unusual Viking influence, which is also seen in surviving pieces of metalwork of that period.\n\nThere are only fragments of the architecture of the period remaining. Unlike Irish high cross and Pictish stones, early Welsh standing stones mainly employ geometric patterns and words, rather than figure representation; however, 10th century stones represent Christ and various saints. Little metalwork survives from the early period of the 5th–9th centuries in Wales. However, archaeological sites at Dinas Powys have revealed various artifacts such as penannular brooches and other pieces of jewellery. Similar brooches have been discovered a site at Penycorddyn-mawr, near Abergele, dating to the 8th century. During this period, the construction of Holy wells was also particularly commonplace in Wales.\n\nWales has rarely been very prosperous, and the most striking medieval architecture is military, often built by the Normans and English, especially the famous \"Castles and Town Walls of King Edward in Gwynedd\" and Beaumaris Castle in Anglesey, recognised as UNESCO World Heritage Sites, Caerphilly Castle and the castles of the Welsh Prince Llywelyn the Great (such as Criccieth Castle and Dolbadarn Castle). There are a number of impressive monastic ruins; Welsh medieval churches are nearly all relatively modest, including the cathedrals. They very often had wall-paintings, panel altarpieces and much other religious art, but as in the rest of Britain very little has survived. Conwy, an English garrison town with its medieval walls almost entirely intact, has a notable example of a 13th-century medieval stone town-house.\n\nPeter Lord suggests that the Renaissance began in Wales around 1400. Much of the art produced in this period was created in or for the church. Strata Florida Abbey, for example, retains some of its medieval decorated tiles.\n\nDespite the widespread destruction that took place during the Reformation and later the Commonwealth, a number of Welsh churches retain fragments of medieval stained glass. These include All Saints' Church, Gresford, St Michael's Church, Caerwys, St Mary's Church, Treuddyn, St Elidan's Church, Llanelidan, Church of St Mary & St Nicholas, Beaumaris, St Gwyddelan's Church, Dolwyddelan, and St David's Cathedral.\n\nFifteenth-century wall paintings have been uncovered in several Welsh church buildings, including St Cadoc's Church, Llancarfan, St Illtyd's Church, Llantwit Major (which has a painting of Saint Christopher believed to date from around 1400), and St Teilo's Church, Llandeilo Tal-y-bont. The latter, during its reconstruction at St Fagans National History Museum during the 1990s, was found to contain wall paintings from several different periods, the earliest estimated as being from the first half of the fifteenth century. The wall paintings at Llancarfan are said to be \"beyond compare in Wales\".\nPlas Mawr, a grand Elizabethan town-house in Conwy, built by Robert Wynn, a local man who had been English ambassador to the Holy Roman Emperor, has been extensively restored by Cadw, both inside and out, to reflect its appearance when built in the second half of the sixteenth century. Wales has numerous country houses from all periods after the Elizabethan, many still containing good portraits, but these were mostly painted in London or on the Continent.\n\nWithin Wales, portraiture is not common in the medieval and post-medieval periods, and the Welsh nobility and gentry usually went to London or other English centres to have their portraits painted; many of these remain in Welsh collections. Katheryn of Berain, who claimed Tudor ancestry and earned the nickname \"Mam Gymru\" (\"Mother of Wales\") because of her network of relationships and descendants from four marriages, was painted by Adriaen van Cronenburgh, a Dutch painter. The portrait was commissioned by her husband, Sir Richard Clough, a merchant whose business caused the couple to settle briefly in Antwerp. Clough himself died before he could bring his wife to the new house he had built for her. Plas Clough, near his home town of Denbigh, includes a Flemish-style crow-stepped gable The arms of the Holy Sepulchre (Clough had been made a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre earlier in his career) are painted on a plaque, but there are no surviving contemporary portraits of Clough himself.\n\nWilliam Herbert, 1st Earl of Pembroke (died 1570), was one of the first Welsh nobles known to have collected paintings on a large scale. A portrait of him, dating from the 1560s, is held by the National Museum of Wales; it is attributed to Steven van Harwijck, another Dutch artist.\n\nLater, artisan painters such as William Roos and Hugh Hughes began to seek portrait commissions. Roos's 1835 portrait of preacher Christmas Evans is held by the National Museum of Wales, as is Hughes' 1826 portrait of William Jenkins Rees.\n\nThe best of the few Welsh artists of the 16th to 18th centuries tended to move elsewhere to work, but in the 18th century the dominance of landscape art in English art brought them motives to stay at home, and brought an influx of artists from outside to paint Welsh scenery, which was \"discovered\" by artists rather earlier than later landscape hotspots like the English Lake District and the Scottish Highlands. The Welsh painter Richard Wilson (1714–1782) is arguably the first major British landscapist, but rather more notable for Italian scenes than Welsh ones, although he did paint several on visits from London.\n\nWilson's pupil Thomas Jones (1742–1803), has a rather higher status today than in his own time, but mainly for his city scenes painted in Italy, though his \"The Bard\" (1774, Cardiff) is a classic work showing the emerging combination of the Celtic Revival and Romanticism. He returned to live in Wales on inheriting the family estate, but largely stopped painting. For most visiting artists the main attraction was dramatic mountain scenery, in the new taste for the sublime partly stimulated by Edmund Burke's \"A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful\" (1757), though some earlier works were painted in Wales in this strain. Early works tended to see the Welsh mountains through the prism of the 17th century Italianate \"wild\" landscapes of Salvator Rosa and Gaspard Dughet. \nBy the 1770s a number of guide books had been published, including Joseph Cradock's \"Letters from Snowdon\" (1770) and \"An Account of Some of the Most Romantic Parts of North Wales\" (1777). Thomas Pennant wrote \"Tour in Wales\" (1778) and \"Journey to Snowdon\" (1781/1783); though Welsh himself, Pennant had published a \"Tour in Scotland\" first, in 1769. The first of a series of British tours by another leading promoter of the picturesque, William Gilpin, was \"Observations on the River Wye and several parts of South Wales, etc. relative chiefly to Picturesque Beauty; made in the summer of the year 1770\", but not published until 1782. Paul Sandby made his first recorded visit to Wales in 1770, later (1773) touring south Wales with Sir Joseph Banks, resulting in the 1775 publication of \"XII Views in South Wales\" and a further 12 views the following year, part of a 48-plate series of aquatints of Welsh views commissioned by Banks. This was an early example of many print series and illustrated books on Wales, often as valuable in terms of income to the artists as original works.\n\nWhat might fifty years earlier have been merely regarded as inconvenience in travel could now been seen as an exciting adventure worth making the subject of a painting, as in Julius Caesar Ibbetson's \"Phaeton in a Thunderstorm\" (1798, now Temple Newsam, Leeds) which shows a carriage struggling up a rough mountain road. It has a label on the back by the artist, recording that the incident occurred when he was travelling in Wales with the artist John \"Warwick\" Smith and the aristocrat Robert Fulke Greville. Ibbetson visited Wales often, and was also one of the first artists to record the Welsh Industrial Revolution, and scenes of Welsh life.\n\nNorth Wales tended to be more visited; the young watercolourist John Sell Cotman embarked on his \"first extended sketching tour\" in 1800, starting from Bristol then following \"a well-trodden path into the Wye Valley, through Brecknockshire to Llandovery and north to Aberystwyth. In Conway he joined a group of artists gathered around the amateur Sir George Beaumont\" perhaps meeting Thomas Girtin there, and continuing to Caernarvon and Llangollen. A second trip followed in 1802; he continued to use motifs from his sketches throughout his career. Other artists often in Wales in this period included Francis Towne, the brothers Cornelius and John Varley and John's pupils Copley Fielding and David Cox (for whose lifelong attachment to Wales see below). Even the caricaturist Thomas Rowlandson visited with Henry Wigstead, a colleague, and they published \"Remarks on a Tour to North and South Wales, in the Year 1797\", an illustrated book.\n\nThe French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars made continental travel impossible for long periods, increasing the visitors to Wales and other parts of Britain. The young J. M. W. Turner made his first extended tour to South and mid-Wales in 1792, followed by North Wales in 1794, and a seven-week tour of Wales in 1798. He also visited Yorkshire and Scotland in the 1790s, but was unable to visit Europe until after the Treaty of Amiens in 1802, when he reached the Alps; he did not visit Italy until 1819. Many of his key early works drew on his Welsh travels, although they were painted back in London. His \"first large classicising watercolour, a Claudeian view of Caernarvon Castle at sunset\" was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1799, along with an oil of the same subject, and the next year he showed another view of the castle, this time with small foreground figures of \"a bard singing to his followers of the destruction of Welsh civilization by the invading armies of Edward I\", another Claudeian formula that he was to repeat many times in major works for the rest of his career, and was arguably the first large \"exhibition watercolour\", reaching into the realm of history painting.\n\nIt remained difficult for artists relying on the Welsh market to support themselves until well into the 20th century. The 1851 census records only 136 people describing their occupation as \"artist\" out of a population of 945,000, with a further 50 engaged in fine arts-related occupations such as engraving. An Act of Parliament in 1857 provided for the establishment of a number of art schools throughout the United Kingdom, and the Cardiff School of Art opened in 1865. Prior to that the annual report for 1855 of the government Science and Art Department shows a list of the larger type of Art School in many British cities, but none in Wales. Under a recently introduced new system \"Local Schools of Art\" had been established in 1853 in Llanelly and Merthyr, but had already closed; those in Swansea and Carmarthen continued, and Flint had applied to establish a school. There were \"Drawing Schools\" in Aberdare and Bangor, but apparently nothing at all in Cardiff. However all these pre-1857 schools, except perhaps Swansea, were mainly teaching school age children, usually in their normal schools, and training in industrial design or teacher-training under the elementary stages of the \"South Kensington system\". \nGraduates of the new fine arts Welsh colleges still very often had to leave Wales to work. Established artists continued to move in the opposite direction, at least for the summer. David Cox was an English 19th century landscapist who spent much time in Wales, for many years spending the summer based in Betws-y-Coed, a popular centre for artists, including the English Henry Clarence Whaite and the German Hubert von Herkomer, one of whose wives was Welsh. Landscape continued to be the main focus, although the Welsh artist Charles William Mansel Lewis was among those who painted common working people, with varying measures of realism or picturesqueness. The \"Betws-y-Coed artist's colony\" was one of the groups forming the Royal Cambrian Academy of Art in 1881; this was always a group for exhibiting rather than a teaching institution, based in Conwy, until 1994 in Plas Mawr (see above).\n\nPerhaps the most famous Welsh-born painters were Augustus John and his sister Gwen John, though they mostly lived in London and Paris; however the landscapists Sir Kyffin Williams (1918–2006) and Peter Prendergast (1946–2007) remained living in Wales for most of their lives, though well in touch with the wider art world. Ceri Richards was very engaged in the Welsh art scene as a teacher in Cardiff, and even after moving to London; he was a figurative painter in international styles including Surrealism. Various artists have moved to Wales, usually the countryside, though paintings of Cardiff of around 1893–97 by the American artist Lionel Walden are in museums in Cardiff and Paris. These included Eric Gill, whose colony included for his most artistically productive period (1924–1927) the London-born Welshman David Jones, and the sculptor Jonah Jones. The Kardomah Gang was an intellectual circle centred on the poet Dylan Thomas and poet and artist Vernon Watkins in Swansea, which also included the painter Alfred Janes; the eponymous cafe was destroyed by a German bomb in 1941.\n\nThe situation gradually improved after World War II, with the appearance of new art groups. \"The South Wales Group\" was established in 1948 (and continues today as The Welsh Group with membership from across Wales). The group’s initial conception was in response to the Royal Cambrian Academy’s relatively weak representation from south Wales at the time. \nIn 1956 when the \"South Wales Group\" failed to become a southern Academy, the 56 Group Wales also emerged, with the aim of promoting modern Welsh art beyond Wales' borders.\nAlso in the industrial valleys the Dowlais Settlement, delivering art classes and activities was established in the 1940s by artists including Heinz Koppel and Arthur Giardelli and the Rhondda Group was formed in the 1950s, a loose group of art students whose most notable member was Ernest Zobole, whose expressionist work was deeply rooted in the juxtaposition of the industrialised buildings of the valleys set against the green hills that surround them. \nIn the 1970s, Paul Davies formed Beca, a radical Welsh group whose founding was in part a reaction to the drowning of Capel Celyn. Beca used a mixture of artistic expression, including installation, painting, sculpture and performance, engaging with language, environmental and land rights issues.\n\nSouth Wales had several notable potteries in the late 18th and 19th centuries, beginning with the Cambrian Pottery (1764–1870, also known as \"Swansea pottery\") and including Nantgarw Pottery near Cardiff, which was in operation from 1813 to 1822 making fine porcelain, and then utilitarian pottery until 1920. Portmeirion Pottery (from 1961) has never in fact been made in Wales.\n\nDespite the fact that considerable quantities of silver (in association with lead), and much smaller amounts of gold, were mined in Wales, there was little silversmithing in Wales in the Early Modern period. It did not help that the Crown gave itself ownership of mines of precious metals, which were largely used for minting currency, some of which was marked with the Prince of Wales's feathers to show its origin. The Welsh gentry mostly had their silver made in English cities.\n\nToday Welsh and Wales based artists, including members of The Welsh Group, the 56 Group Wales, the Royal Cambrian Academy and artists not affiliated with any particular group, provide a varied contemporary tapestry of art across Wales. From the Abstract Art of Brendan Stuart Burns or Martyn Jones, to the expressive, modern figurative art of Shani Rhys James, Clive Hicks-Jenkins or Rhŷn Williams, from the politically charged work of Iwan Bala or Ivor Davies to the Pop Art of Ken Elias. The contemporary art of Wales is noted perhaps more for its variety, rather than having a single set agenda. However, perhaps due to market forces or the inspirational shapes and changing light, the Welsh landscape is still particularly well represented in commercial galleries throughout Wales and beyond, either through the expressive, almost abstract, techniques used by artists like David Tress or the more traditional approaches used by others like Rob Piercy.\n\nConceptual art is represented in Wales with a number of successful artists including Bedwyr Williams and David Garner together with performance artists like the group TRACE, creating and showing work in Wales and beyond. A number of Welsh galleries focus on conceptual art, with the most significant perhaps being \"Mostyn\" in north Wales and \"Chapter Arts Centre\" and \"g|39\" in south Wales. The Gold Medal at 'Y Lle Celf' in the National Eisteddfod of Wales has seen a notable trend towards more conceptual approaches over the last ten or so years, with Installation work being the usual focal point. The 2003 development of the Artes Mundi prize and Wales's presence at the Venice Biennale has strengthened the country's international reputation for Conceptual and Installation art.\n\nSince 2003 the Artes Mundi biennial art prize has been held at the National Museum Cardiff. The prize is the biggest art prize in the United Kingdom with £40,000 for each year’s winner. Though the prize has included artists who use traditional media, like paint, this is usually only part of their practice, with the focus being very much on conceptual approaches. Though the exhibition takes place in Cardiff, the focus is on international artists, with Tim Davies from Pembrokeshire and Cornwall born Sue Williams being the only Wales based artists to have featured to date.\n\nAlso adding to the international flavour in 2003, Wales took part in the Venice Biennale with its own pavilion and has continued to do so ever since, showing work by conceptual Welsh artists including John Cale in 2009, Tim Davies in 2011 and Bedwyr Williams in 2013.\n\nA selected list; for many more, see or List of Welsh artists\n\n\n\nAlan Torjussen, \"A Wales Art Collection - Casgliad Celf Cymru\", bilingual art education project for schools and adults (A3 cards, A6 cards, CD Rom), Genesis 2014, etc.\n\nAlan Torjussen, \"Teaching Art in Wales - Dysgu Celf yng Nghymru\", bilingual art education project for schools and adults (A3 cards, teachers book, videos), Genesis & University of Wales Press 1997\n\n"}
{"id": "32624696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32624696", "title": "World Health Observances", "text": "World Health Observances\n\nInternational Observances denote a period to observe an issue of international interest or concern. Many of these observances have been established by either the United Nations General Assembly, United Nations Economic and Social Council or by the World Health Organization. World Health Observances mark a period which is often used to promote an issue and mobilize for action. Below follows a list of days and months which have been denoted as health related observances.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInternational observance\n"}
