{"id": "43055548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43055548", "title": "2014 kidnapping and murder of Israeli teenagers", "text": "2014 kidnapping and murder of Israeli teenagers\n\nOn 12 June 2014, three Israeli teenagers were kidnapped at the bus/hitchhiking stop at the Israeli settlement of Alon Shvut in Gush Etzion, in the West Bank, as they were hitchhiking to their homes. The three teens were Naftali Frenkel (16, from Nof Ayalon), Gilad Shaer (16, from Talmon), and Eyal Yifrah (19, from Elad).\n\nGilad Shaer called a police emergency hotline to report the kidnapping. The emergency call recording, initially under a gag order, was leaked to the public. After Shaer's whispered message \"They kidnapped me\", the taped call also recorded shouting in Arabic from the kidnappers and several volleys of automatic gunfire. Within days, Israeli investigators, though lacking conclusive proof, strongly suspected the teenagers had been killed, and, if so, knew where the victims' bodies would probably have been dumped.\nThe Israel Defense Forces initiated Operation Brother's Keeper (, \"Mivtza Shuvu Ahim\") in search of the three teenagers. As part of the operation, in the following 11 days Israel arrested around 350 Palestinians, including nearly all of Hamas' West Bank leaders. Five Palestinians were killed during the military operation.\n\nOn 15 June, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that the teens had been kidnapped by Hamas, which Hamas denied. Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas maintained that as of 22 June there was no evidence that Hamas was behind the kidnapping.\n\nOn 25 July, BBC correspondent Jon Donnison tweeted that Israeli police spokesman Mickey Rosenfeld stated that the kidnappings did not occur on the orders of, or with the knowledge of the Hamas leadership, and that the crime was the action of a \"lone cell\". Sheera Frenkel had reported similar views from Israel and Palestinian sources some ten days earlier. Rosenfeld later denied having used the words \"lone cell\".\n\nOn 5 August, Israel said that it had arrested Hussam Qawasmeh, a cousin of Marwan Qawasmeh, on 11 July, who is suspected of having organized the killing of the three teenagers. According to court documents, Qawasmeh stated that Hamas members in Gaza financed the recruitment and arming of the killers. Hussam Qawasmeh's lawyers stated that he confessed under \"heavy torture\" from Israeli security services, Shin Bet. Qawasmeh's lawyer stated \"What he said during interrogation was that he was responsible for ordering the kidnapping\", and that \"[t]he orders came from him personally.\"\n\nOn 26 June, the Israel Security Agency released the identities of two Hamas suspects in the kidnapping. Both ISA and Palestinian authorities said that the two men have been missing since the night of the kidnapping, and the ISA stated that both had engaged in terrorism, been arrested, and served time in the past, and were considered suspects immediately after the kidnapping. A senior Palestinian intelligence official said off the record that their disappearance constituted clear evidence the two suspects have links with the abduction.\n\nOn 30 June, search teams found the bodies of the three missing teenagers in a field north-west of Hebron. They had apparently been shot dead shortly after the abduction. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed a tough response to the killings.\n\nOn 20 August 2014, a Hamas official Salah al-Arouri, who had been publicly identified as the mastermind of the operation several days after the kidnapping, on 19 June, said that the organization's armed wing, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, was behind the kidnapping and murder. The Shin Bet had been investigating him in the belief that he ran a major Hamas network in the West Bank, headed by Riad Nasser of Deir Qadis, near Ramallah, and that he was behind the kidnapping. Following this line of investigation may have delayed the capture of Hussam al-Qarasme, who was only arrested on 10 July. al-Arouri, one of the founders of Hamas's military wing, made his comments at a conference in Istanbul, where he lives in exile. The Israeli Defense establishment thinks that Arouri is unconnected with the kidnapping, and was boasting. Hamas leader Khaled Mashal said that some Hamas members had kidnapped and murdered the Israeli teens but stated that they were not acting on orders from the Hamas leadership, which he said, were \"not aware of this action taken by this group of Hamas members in advance\" and the first he heard about it was through the Israeli investigation into the events. Meshaal, who has headed Hamas' exiled political wing since 2004, has denied being involved in the \"details\" of Hamas \"military issues\". He praised the kidnappers hoping the action could lead to the release of Palestinian prisoners. According to J.J. Goldberg, the military indictment contains no evidence of orders from Hamas itself and strengthens the thesis that the incident was organized by the Qawasmeh family alone from start to finish. According to Amos Harel and Chaim Levinson, the kidnappers planned to wait a few days, then contact senior Hamas operatives in the Hebron area, to manage the hostage and negotiate a prisoner swap with Israel. In their view it appears doubtful that any senior Hamas official would have been ready to accept that kind of risk.\n\nOn 23 September 2014, after Israel killed the two suspects, Marwan Qawasmeh and Amar Abu-Isa (aka Amer Abu Aysha) in a shootout, IDF Chief Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz announced that Operation Brother's Keeper \"has come to an end.\"\n\nOn 6 January 2015, Hussam Qawasmeh, a member of Hamas, was jailed and sentenced to three life terms in prison for the murders. He must also pay $63,000 in compensation to the victims' families.\n\n2013 was a calm period with the November 2012 ceasefire being largely respected, despite 50 rockets fired by Palestinians and 10 airstrikes by Israel. According to PCHR 44 Palestinians were killed and over 100 injured, while the Israeli Security Agency reported six Israeli fatalities (all but one from the West Bank) and 44 injuries. The first half of 2014 saw an increase in tension manifested by a higher rate of injuries. Among Palestinians there were 43 fatalities in the first half of the year plus 1860 injuries. Tension was also increased by Israel's opposition to the formation of a Hamas-Fatah unity government, with threats of sanctions and the burgeoning issue of prisoners and the violation of the Shalit agreement Mutual attacks on each other by Israel and Gaza continued, as did the Israeli blockade of Gaza.\n\nMainstream western media ascribe the initiation of the major 2014 conflict to the kidnapping of the three Israeli teenagers. Some news analysts believe that earlier clashes might also have played a role in the chain of events. On 15 May, two Palestinian teenagers were shot dead during the Nakba commemorations in the Beitunia killings. An autopsy report published on 9 June proved the death of one of them to be due to \"live fire\", i.e. not rubber bullets.\"\n\nThe Israeli Foreign Ministry web site emphasizes rocket fire from Gaza as being the reason for the IDF war on Gaza.\n\nEyal Yifrach, 19, lived in El'ad, Naftali Fraenkel (also spelled Frenkel), 16, was a dual Israeli-American citizen and lived in Nof Ayalon. Gilad Shaer was a resident of the Israeli settlement of Talmon. Eyal Yifrah was a student at the on King David Street in Hebron. The other two were students of the Mekor Chaim yeshiva at Kfar Etzion in the West Bank's Area C under full Israeli administration.\n\nIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu stated that Hamas killed the teenagers. But opinions were divided within Israel's security services as to whether or not the two suspects had direct ties to Hamas. On 26 June, the Israel Security Agency identified two Hamas members as key suspects in the kidnapping, whom Palestinian police noted, had gone missing since the night of the kidnapping. High-ranking members of Hamas denied that the group had any involvement or foreknowledge of the incident. The two named suspects hail from the Qawasameh clan, notorious for consistently acting against Hamas's policies and its attempts to reach an entente with Israel. Hamas political chief Khaled Meshal said he could neither confirm nor deny the kidnapping of the three Israelis, and he congratulated the abductors, because \"our prisoners must be freed from the prisons of the occupation\".\n\nInitially a number of groups, some previously unknown, claimed responsibility for the kidnappings: The Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades (subsequently denied); a West Bank Branch of Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, \"Brigades of Global Jihad\", \"Ahrar ar-Khalil\" (Liberators Battalion of Hebron), and \"Regiments of Hezbollah\". It was not clear how true their claims were, and the middle three were not considered credible.\n\nAfter the kidnap of the Israeli teens, Israel commenced Operation Brother's Keeper in the West Bank. Israel killed 9 Palestinians and raided 1300 properties including commercial and residential buildings. 800 Palestinians were arrested without charge or trial.\nOn 5 August 2014 Israel announced that Israeli security forces arrested Hussam Kawasme, in Shuafat, in connection with the murders. During interrogation, Kawasme admitted to being the mastermind behind the attack, in addition to securing the funding from Hamas. Kawasme stated that after the boys were killed, Marwan Kawasme and Amer Abu Aysha drove to his house, and they proceeded to bury them in Halhoul, the land Kawasme purchased only a few weeks prior.\n\nBy the time of his arrest, Kaswasme had shaved his beard and received a fake passport, in what is believed to be, part of a plan to escape to Jordan.\n\nOfficials have stated that additional people arrested in connection with the murders are still being held, but no names have been released.\n\nOn 20 August, Hamas member Saleh al-Arouri, who lives in Turkey, claimed Hamas' involvement in the abduction and murder, according to an Israeli channel 2 translation. He continued on calling the men who perpetrated the act heroic. Hugh Lovatt of the European Council on Foreign Relations said al-Arouri's claim was \"suspicious\": it might reflect a desire to assert his relevance within the Hamas leadership or it may be true, and reflect a power struggle within Hamas itself. On 21 August Hamas leader Khaled Mashal claimed Hamas leadership had no prior knowledge of the abductions and murders and had learned about them through the Israeli military.\n\nThe following day, NGO Shurat HaDin, contacted US Attorney General Eric Holder to request extradition of al-Arouri. Although Turkey and Israel do not have an extradition agreement, the US and Turkey do, which it can use to extradite those who commit terrorists acts against US citizens.\n\nThe two suspects Marwan Kawasme and Amar Abu Aysha were staying in a house in Hebron when IDF soldiers and Israeli counter-terrorism members, Yamam, surrounded the building at dawn on 23 September in an attempt to arrest the suspects. Israeli forces opened fire on the building and reportedly called on the two suspects to come out. With no response the Israeli force began using a bulldozer to bring down the building. According to Israeli forces, they shot one of the men as his head rose out of a hole and began firing a rifle. After this man fell back into the home, likely dead, Israeli forces again opened fire on the house, utilizing grenades and other explosives this time, killing both men.\n\nHebron governor Kamel Hmeid and Hamas spokesman Salah Bardawil both called the suspects martyrs. Hamas leader Khaled Mashal also called the suspects \"martyrs\" and \"heroes\".\n\nThe investigation concluded that the kidnapping operation's costs ran to NIS220,000, a sum procured by Hossam Hassan Kawasmeh (40), with the assistance of his brother, Mahmoud, who was exiled to the Gaza Strip in the Gilad Shalit exchange in November 2011, to purchase the two vehicles and weaponry. The cars were purchased from Nuh Abu-Eisha, the weapons from Hamas operative Adnan Mahmad Izzat Zru (34) both Hebronites. His attempt to escape to Jordan, thwarted when he was arrested in the Shuafat refugee camp on 11 July, was assisted by his relatives Hisham Kawasmeh (45), Jamil Kawasmeh (38) and Hassan Kawasmeh (45) a Hamas militant. Two other Hebronites, Ahmad Ibrahim Mahmad Kawasmeh (64) and his brother, senior Hamas operative Arafat Ibrahim Mahmad Kawasmeh (50) for assistance in going into hiding, and the latter concealed them on his property.\nOn 6 January 2015, Hussam Qawasmeh was sentenced to three life terms in prison for the murders as well as a compensation payment of $63,000 to the victims' families.\n\nAccording to Israeli investigations, the seizure and killing of the three was organized by Hussam Qawasmeh, who had received $39,000 from his brother Mahmoud in Gaza, via a go-between still at large. The money financed the purchase of three M-16 rifles, a jeep, and the Israeli car, which was bought from a used-car dealer in Hebron after it was stolen from the settlement of Tzur Hadassah. Altogether, he met with Marwan five or six times before the kidnapping. The plan was to conceal one kidnapped Israeli in Marwan Qawasme's barbershop in Hebron, then transfer him to Marwan's aunt's vacant house. A first attempt on 10 June failed to find any hitchhikers. There was no intention to release the boys: from the outset the plan, considered amateurish and not professional, envisaged murdering the captives. The plot of land where they were buried had been purchased to that end some time earlier, and a refuge to escape detection had been prepared in an old house near Tufah where the two suspects hid in a disused cesspit for five days. The car for the kidnapping had been stolen.\n\nNetanyahu asserted that the attack originated from PA-controlled areas, and criticized the Fatah-Hamas pact.\n\nIn the first week, Israel added a further three to the six combat brigades already present in the West Bank. Close to 40 battalions were engaged in rounding up suspects, notably the Paratroopers' 35th Division and the Kfir's 900th Division. Other specialized groups, such as the Duvdevan Unit, the Egoz Reconnaissance Unit and the Airborne Rescue And Evacuation Unit 669 supplement the search force. Skylark mini UAV drones were deployed, and the Yahalom combat engineering unit conducted tunnel searches. Fifty Bedouin IDF trackers were also used.\n\nLate into the night of Thursday, 12 June, teenagers Yifrach, Fraenkel, and Shaer were waiting at Geva'ot Intersection, west of the settlement of Alon Shvut in the Etzion Bloc south of Jerusalem, soon after 22:15, looking to catch a ride heading west on Route 367 toward Beit Shemesh and from there to locations in central Israel where each of them lived. The kidnappers intended to kidnap one Israeli. Apparently Yifrach, after accepting a ride, waved to the other two to join him. The Palestinians, afraid of giving their identity away if they spoke Hebrew, didn't dare object. After the car veered off from the declared direction of Ashkelon, the three realized they had been kidnapped and Shaer telephoned the police at 22:25, whispering, \"I've been kidnapped.\" Eight attempts were made to page the caller's cellphone, without checking its ownership, and his whispered remark was taken to be one of the many pranks that night. No check was made to find out the phone's owner, or whether he was missing. Later, analysis of the tape revealed what the police failed to realize at the time, that the murders had occurred while the hotline operator was listening.\n\nFour and a half hours passed before Shaer's family finally phoned the Talmon security coordinator at 3:10 am to inform him their son Gil-Ad had not returned home. Only then did the security establishment take the case seriously, and Shin Bet and the IDF were alerted by the police. According to the Palestinian Ma'an News Agency, the army succeeded in tracing the call to the Sanjar region, the last cellphone signal being made at 23:20 in the Hebron area, when Fraenkel's and Shaer's cellphones had been switched off. Meanwhile, at 1 a.m. on Friday morning, Marwan knocked on Hussam's door and said, \"I've murdered three Jews.\"\n\nA gag order was immediately placed regarding the abduction on Israeli news services (the presumed identities of the kidnappers, acolytes of senior Hamas members, were known almost from the beginning to everyone in Hebron, but kept from the Israeli public). and, in lieu of concrete details, rumours proliferated. Controversy soon raged in Israel over the police delay in reporting the call. At 11:00 on 13 June, a \"Hannibal\" alert (meaning 'kidnapping') was issued.\n\nBased on cellphone and other data, Israeli investigators deduced that the kidnappers' car had stopped near Beit Kahil, west of Halhul, for 28 minutes. According to Palestinian security sources, a Hyundai i35, with seating for 5, with Israeli license plates, was torched on the night of 12 June, and subsequently found by Palestinian police from the village of Beit Einun near Hebron. This vehicle was believed to be connected to the abduction. The suspicion arose that the use of the car displaying Israeli license plates was a trick to lull the hitchhikers into believing the vehicle was driven by Israelis. The Israeli authorities had placed the emergency call recording under a gag order but it was leaked to the public, after which the gag order was partially lifted. It then emerged that on the first day, after Gilad Shaer's whispered message \"They kidnapped me,\" the taped emergency call also recorded a cry (\"heads down!\"), sounds of shouting, a volley of automatic fire, a weak voice sighing \"Ai,\" silence, another volley of automatic fire and then singing. The burnt car discovered that morning yielded evidence of numerous blood-stains. Israeli police assumed correctly that bodies must have been buried in that vicinity. What they did not know is that the bodies had been taken from the provisory burial site and reburied beyond the radius of research. Notwithstanding this, the Israeli authorities began to broadcast the message that the boys were abducted, not that they had been murdered.\n\nOn 14–15 June, the Hebron and South Hebron Hills areas were the focus of investigations by a large number of troops. Soldiers numbering 2,500 together with security agents, police, and special forces engaged in a manhunt, scouring numerous villages, including Beit Ummar, Beit Einun, Halhul, Dura, as-Samu, Tarqumiyah, Beit Kahil, Yatta, Taffuh, and Tapuah in what the IDF termed 'Operation Shuvu Achim (Return, Brothers/Bring Back Our Brothers),' and referred to in English as 'Brother's Keeper'. An anonymous \"security source\" claimed that little resistance was encountered because the local populations have become accustomed in recent years to regular night raids by the IDF. The sound of rubber-coated bullets and tear-gas canisters were heard.\n\nOver the weekend, Israeli security forces also arrested around 80 Palestinians, among them senior members of Hamas, accused of being connected to the kidnapping, in a sweep that rounded up former government leaders, clerics, university lecturers, and militants of both Hamas and Islamic Jihad across the West Bank. In Hebron's Ein Deir Baha neighborhood Israeli forces broke down a door, apparently by firing a missile, after surrounding the house of Akram al-Qawasami. He, his 8-year-old son Muhammad and younger daughter Sujoud were injured by shrapnel, and two Hamas operatives, among them Zaid Akram al-Qawasami, were arrested inside. The military also fully closed the Hebron area and Gaza crossings, only allowing passage for humanitarian cases.\n\nOn Sunday, Netanyahu said what he had only hinted at previously, that Israel \"knew for a fact\" that the abduction had been carried out by Hamas, a position the IDF had avoided explicitly stating. He did, however, not provide any evidence. Security officials remained more cautious, tending to accept the probability that a Hebronite Hamas cell was involved, but uncertain whether it was a local initiative to secure prisoner releases or an operation approved by the Hamas leadership in Gaza. A remark by Moshe Ya'alon about the \"very heavy price\" Hamas leaders might pay was interpreted by one journalist as hinting Israel might be mulling the option of resuming its campaign of targeted killings, this time against the Hamas leadership. Israel's Deputy Minister of Defense, Danny Danon, threatened \"possible actions\" in Gaza and Ramallah.\n\nOvernight on 16 June, the IDF clashed with Palestinians in Jenin, where they ransacked the offices of Mustafa Barghouti's Palestinian National Initiative and confiscated computers, and 400 soldiers raided the Jalazone refugee camp near Ramallah, killing Ahmad Arafat Samada (Ahmad Sabarin) (21) with a gunshot wound in the chest. The Israeli army said he threw a brick at the Israeli soldiers. A dragnet rounded up a further 50 people, bringing the total of Palestinians detained to 150. Many arrests, including the former speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council Aziz Duwaik, 66, were part of what IDF Chief of Staff Benny Gantz described as an extensive operation, and were not linked to the search for the youths, but were part of a crackdown to apply pressure on Hamas. Netanyahu's approach has been interpreted as aimed at driving a wedge between Fatah and Hamas in order to break up the reconciliation between the two negotiated in April 2014, and discredit both Abbas and his government, which has been backed by Western countries. PA sources noted that Hamas, in the unity negotiations, had undertaken to desist from attacks and bloodshed, and if its involvement were proven, it would be a breach of the agreement that would render the reconciliation null and void, a point repeated later in the week by the Palestinian Foreign Minister.\nOvernight 16–17 June, the IDF arrested more than 200 Palestinians. Anything linked to Hamas was being targeted, an official source said. The IDF shifted its attentions north, and deployed 1,000 soldiers from the Nahal Brigade for operations around Nablus. In particular the Balata refugee camp and the village of Awarta were scoured in what a spokesman called '\"cleaning house\" in the \"terror capital of Nablus\"', and a further 41 Palestinians were detained, among them the manager of the Hamas-run television channel Al-Aqsa TV, bringing the number of arrests to 200. Israeli soldiers confiscated a large cache of weapons and uncovered a weapons manufacturing lab in Nablus.\n\nConflicting reports emerged on Israel's collaboration with both the PNA and other regional governments. Israel's Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories, Yoav Mordechai, denied on 16 June that Israel coordinated the search with Palestinian or Egyptian authorities. However, Israel military intelligence confirmed that Israel was working closely with both the PA authorities and Egypt. Egyptian sources stated the same day that Israel had requested their assistance, and that President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi had issued directives to his security services to undertake negotiations with all parties. On 17 June, Israel defence sources said PNA assistance had been \"very professional\".\n\nOn the night of 18 June, Israel seized a further 64 Palestinians, of whom 51 were Hamas members who had been previously arrested but released in the Gilad Shalit exchange in 2011, bringing to 240 the number of arrests. In six days, the government sources announced, they had searched 800 structures, including the Al-Aqsa radio station in Ramallah and the Hebron-based TransMedia communications company, both linked to Hamas. They were taken in operations in Hebron, Jenin, Nablus, Yatta, Taffuh, Dura, Beit Kahil, East Jerusalem, Idhna, Surif, Beit Ula, Beit Awwa, Deir Sharaf, Salfit, Audla, Tell, Beit Furik and Qabatiya. The overnight operations also secured the defenses of Israeli settlements. However, in the process 300,000 Palestinians were left under curfew, 600,000 in the area had their movements restricted, and Hebronites with permission to work in Israel, an estimated 20,000, were denied entrance into Israel and thus their livelihood, and, according to an IDF spokesmen, Palestinians preparing for the Ramadan holiday have \"taken a hit.\" Home Front Defense Minister Gilad Erdan also stated that Israel had identified the Hamas cell responsible for the kidnapping.\n\nOvernight on 19 June, troops raided the Bir Zeit University's student union searching for incriminating evidence, finding promotional material for Hamas. The Prime Minister declared at a press conference: \"We know more today than we did a few days ago.\" The IDF arrested 25 wanted Palestinians in the West Bank, and searched 200 homes. Nine more raids were launched against Hamas social services (Dawah) centers. Moshe Ya'alon outlawed West Bank activities of the British Muslim charity, Islamic Relief Worldwide (IRW) because some of its offices employed Hamas members. In East Jerusalem, a social centre operated from a Beit Safafa mosque in Beit Safafa village, and a Sur Baher charity were also closed down. By night's end, 49 Palestinians had been arrested. One of the refugee camp detainees complained that soldiers had stolen $580 from his wallet.\n\nThroughout the week, the arrest of Hamas leaders went quietly as they acceded to their detention, but by Friday, 20 June, sporadic popular resistance began to emerge. Three Palestinians were wounded in a raid on Qalandiya refugee camp, near Jerusalem, while another five were wounded in clashes at the Dheisheh refugee camp by Bethlehem, whose Ibdaa cultural center was wrecked, cheques and money from its safe, together with five computers, confiscated. Four of the victims were reportedly run over by an Israeli jeep. Also on 20 June, Israeli soldiers near the Qalandiya checkpoint in Ramallah fired live rounds at a group of Palestinians who had thrown homemade grenades at them. Mustafa Hosni Aslan, 22, received a gunshot wound to the head, and died on 25 June. Live fire was used according to the IDF in response to Molotov cocktails, pipe bombs, one makeshift grenade, firecrackers, and stones being thrown at soldiers at the camps. In Dura's Haninia neighbourhood, after a night-long raid, involving many clashes with local youths, to detain a person Israelis consider to be a terrorist, as troops were withdrawing, eyewitness testimonies reported that a retreating Israeli soldier fired six shots and killed 15-year-old Mohammed Dudeen. Twenty-five more Palestinians were arrested at Dura and Dheisheh, bringing the number of detainees to 320, of which 240 are considered Hamas operatives. The number of sites searched mounted to 1,150, of which 1,000 buildings were damaged, the figure including over 750 homes. According to Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad al-Malki Israel had destroyed 150 homes by week's end. In another dawn raid on the Dean's Office and Student Union of the Arab American University in Jenin papers were seized, and Amir Saadi, 17, was shot in the shoulder. The villages of Arraba, Al-Louz, and Artas were also raided.\n\nRiyad al-Malki demanded Israel produce evidence that Hamas was culpable, stating that Netanyahu cannot \"keep blaming one side without showing evidence.\" He said Israel's massive military sweeps were unacceptable, with 300 Palestinians taken in exchange for three Israeli kids, but the Palestinian authority would act to prevent an uprising, for \"if the situation continues as it is, this will end up (with) the destruction of what we have built in Palestine.\"\n\nOn Friday night, Israeli security spokesmen said the \"noose was tightening\" as troops were concentrated near Hebron, with intelligence officials confident that attempts to move the youths to either Jordan, Gaza, or the Sinai had failed. A spokesman for the Prime Minister, Amos Gilead, stated that Netanyahu's view that Hamas was responsible was \"built on the base of firm intelligence.\" IDF forces ransacked Bethlehem's biggest Islamic charity, devoted to orphan's care, in the Jabal al-Mawalih neighborhood and took away computers and files.\n\nOn 21 June, Israeli forces concentrated their investigations on villages north of Hebron, searching wells, pits, and houses. According to Palestinian reports, an elderly man, Ali Abed Jabir, either died during an altercation with Israeli troops who broke into his home while ransacking houses in the village of Haris, or was denied passage for medical treatment after suffering a heart attack. Israel sources state the house was not raided and, on being told of the heart-attack, an Israeli ambulance was called. A further 39 Palestinians, primarily in Hebron and Bethlehem, were arrested in overnight raids, bringing the number seized to roughly 370, 75 of whom had been released in the 2011 prisoner swap. IDF sources challenged the report, saying only 10 Hamas 'terrorists' were seized. Further claims of soldiers stealing money were made by villagers in Beit Kahil. In the village of al-Bireh, several houses were ransacked, and soldiers broke into the Noon Center for Islamic Studies and the Palmedia TC company where they confiscated computers and damaged furniture. The IDF said cash had been confiscated in 21 homes of the 146 homes searched overnight. Palestinian sources also stated that in a predawn raid in Nablus, a female reporter was assaulted and troops shot and injured two Palestinian teenagers. In the late afternoon three fire trucks, with pumps to empty pools of water, and an ATV rescue unit were rushed to assist special forces searching an area riddled with caves and wells north of Hebron, between Highway 35 and Highway 60, reportedly without concrete intelligence leads. Netanyahu reaffirmed that 'the information in Israel's hands unequivocally indicates that Hamas is responsible for the abduction of the youths.'\n\nOn 22 June, Israeli units shot dead two Palestinians and wounded another 11 in overnight clashes in Ramallah and Nablus, while nine (Israeli statistic) to 38 (Palestinian statistic) were arrested and five charity offices were raided. Israeli forces also raided Abu Dis and Al-Quds University's law faculty, seizing flags and several computers. Ahmad Said Suod Khalid (27), an epileptic, of Ein Beit al-Ma' refugee camp was shot in the abdomen, back, and thigh, for refusing an order to turn back as he insisted on going to a mosque for dawn prayers. Muhammad Ismail Atallah Tarifi (30) was found dead on the roof of a building opposite an Israeli sniper position, an autopsy found he was shot dead by an M16, a rifle in use with the IDF. Mourners at his funeral in al-Bireh later complained that settlers from Psagot had fired at them, injuring one. Palestinians, protesting at the cooperation given Israeli forces by their own police, who dispersed crowds by firing live ammunition in the air, smashed four local police cars in Ramallah, and, once Israelis had withdrawn from the city, raided a police station in Al Manara Square. Abbas, affirming that he was not convinced Hamas was responsible, called on Netanyahu to condemn two earlier killings, and asked if the criminal kidnapping justified 'the killing of Palestinian youth in cold blood?' The Palestinian Prisoners' Society named 420 people so far arrested, claimed Israel consistently understated the numbers and refused to disclose where they are detained.\n\nOn Sunday, the Palestinian Authority asked for an urgent convening of the UN Security Council, while mulling an appeal both to the High Contracting Parties of the Fourth Geneva Convention and the UN General Assembly to put an end what it considered to be \"collective punishment,\" \"Israeli terrorist aggression against the State of Palestine,\" and what Hanan Ashrawi termed \"a reign of terror directed against a captive Palestinian population.\"\n\nOn 23 June, 80 locations, including seven Hamas-linked charities, were raided from the Nablus to Hebron and Jenin areas, with a further 37 Palestinians detained overnight. Four money-changing shops in Hebron and one in Bethlehem were also searched, and their computers confiscated. The number of Palestinians under detention rose to 471. An officer interviewed on Walla! said that Israel, having achieved most of its \"band of targets\", would close the operation, and that the military incursion pattern in the West Bank, apart from detention raids, would stop within days. No clue to the teenagers' whereabouts, had turned up, but the operation, in crippling Hamas's infrastructure, had been a success. Netanyahu declared: \"We've pretty much figured out who are the kidnappers—the actual perpetrators, the supporters, the command structure—and there's no question, these are members of Hamas.\"\n\nOn 24 June 120 buildings were searched and four to 13 Palestinians were rounded up by Israeli forces in the Hebron area, Beit Kahil, Beit Awwa, al-Arrub refugee camp, and the Hebron neighbourhoods of al-Mahawir, al-Bassa, and al-Hawooz, bringing the number of sites examined to 1,800 and the number of detained Palestinians, in the IDF calculation, to 354, or according to Palestinian sources, over 500. As town searches and arrests wound down, investigators shifted their focus to interrogations of detainees and scrutiny of the 150 security cameras in the area in which the kidnapping is believed to have taken place. The IDF said it had no substantial lead on the boys' whereabouts, or fate. A lawyer for the PA said that in the wake of the West Bank round-up, the number of Palestinian minors detained in Israeli jails exceeded 250, and that the hunt for the missing Israeli youths served to cover up this fact.\n\nOn 25 June, 17 Palestinians were arrested overnight in Yatta, Beit Ummar, Hebron and Bethlehem among them legislative council members Khalid Tafish and Anwar Zaboun, both of Bethlehem, bringing the number of Palestinian legislators arrested in the campaign to 12. Of the 19 people arrested in Beit Ummar since the start of the search, 14 are minors. A Palestinian youth in Khursa, Younis al-Rjoub (18), was shot in the abdomen during a clash with Israeli soldiers.\n\nOn 26 June, the Israel Security Agency released the names of two Hamas suspects. The ISA stated that both men had engaged in terrorism, been arrested and served time in the past, and were immediately considered suspects. ISA and Palestinian authorities said they had disappeared from their homes on the night of the kidnapping, and ISA believed them to be integral members of the kidnapping group.\n\nOvernight, 136 structures were searched and a further 10 Palestinians were arrested in the Hebron area on suspicion of being terrorists. Fatima Ismail Issa Rushdi (78) died of a heart attack during an Israeli raid on the Arruba refugee camp. Nine youths were injured by tear gas or rubber bullets. Two boys, aged 13 and 14, were arrested in Dura. 44-year-old Ismail Ahmad al-Hawamda was shot in the foot, running away from a checkpoint in the Hebron district town of al-Samu. Despite the Oslo Accords stipulating coordination with the PA security service for Israeli entry into West Bank Areas in the Area A, in what was called an \"unprecedented\" move, Israeli units raided the Tunis and Rafidia neighbourhoods of Nablus and Balata refugee camp without prior clearance. Two hundred homes in Awarta were also raided.\n\nAccording to Israeli figures, state detentions numbered 381, of whom 282 are affiliated to Hamas. The number of locations searched rose to 1,955, including 64 Hamas institutions. Palestinian figures state that 566 were detained, six were shot dead, and over 120 wounded; two elderly people died of heart attacks during Israeli operations, and more than 1,200 homes were searched.\n\nOn 30 June, a search team located the bound bodies of the three boys on land purchased recently by the Qawasmeh family in an open field near Khirbet Aranava in the Wadi Tellem area, between Halhul and Karmei Tzur, about west of the former, just north of Hebron. A high security source revealed that:\n\nThe ambulance carrying the three bodies was attacked by Palestinians as it left Halhul, the location where the bodies had been found. The Palestinians hurled rocks and paint at the ambulance, smashing its windshield and blinding the windows, but failed to cause the driver to lose control.\n\nJust after midnight, Israeli military used explosives to demolish the Hebron homes of the two main suspects, Marwan Qawasmeh and Amer Abu Aisha.\n\nThe joint funeral of Yifrach, Fraenkel, and Shaer was scheduled for 17:30 on 1 July. Huge crowds delayed it for over an hour.\n\nIsraeli jets and helicopters struck 34 locations in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip in response to more than 20 rockets being fired at Israel from Gaza. A 19-year-old Palestinian man, Yousouf Al-Zagha, was shot dead by Israeli troops during a raid in the northern town of Jenin. An IDF spokesperson said the man had thrown a grenade at the troops, while his family maintained he had been carrying eggs home for suhoor, the predawn meal during the fast of Ramadan.\n\nA Palestinian teenager was abducted from East Jerusalem and murdered. Israeli police located the body within hours, and arrested Israeli nationalist suspects several days later. The kidnapping and murder of Mohammed Abu Khdeir was soundly denounced by all of the families of the Israeli kidnapping victims as well as by many Israeli governmental and non-governmental public figures.\n\nOn 4 July, Israel stated it was searching for a third suspect, Husam Dofsh, absent from his home since the kidnapping. A relative, Jihad Dofsh, had blown himself up in a \"work accident\" in a Hamas explosives laboratory in Hebron, and one of Qawasmeh's relatives had died in the same incident. Husam Dofsh was arrested in a Hebron coffee-shop the following day, after phoning an Israeli news site to protest his innocence.\n\nFor about two weeks in July, Israeli military preparations began for direct fighting inside of Gaza, whilst Hamas rocket fire into Israel took place. The military publicly announced on 17 July that it would go into Gaza, an intervention that caused at least 25 soldiers killed and scores injured on the Israeli side over the 20 to 21 July period. Public opinion in the nation is strongly divided, with, for example, the newspaper \"Haaretz\" editorializing that the \"soft Gaza sand... could turn into quicksand\" and warning about the \"wholesale killing\" of Palestinian civilians. The campaign in the Gaza is referred to by Israel as Operation Protective Edge.\n\nOn 20 August, Hamas official Saleh Al-'Arouri spoke at the conference of the International Union of Muslim Scholars in Istanbul, where he said the group's military wing was responsible for the kidnapping of the three Israeli teens, saying it was an expression of popular will. Khaled Mashal, the Hamas leader, while recognizing that Hamas members were responsible, attempted to distance his organization from the killing two days later. Stating Hamas's opposition to killing civilians, he said the leadership had no advance knowledge of the abduction, which he regarded as a legitimate act by a frustrated people living under occupation, and that it had only learnt of its details from Israeli investigations.\n\nFollowing the kidnappings and the escalating firing of missiles by Palestinian militants towards civilians in southern Israel, Israel decides to embark on Operation Protective Edge. On 3 July 2014, the Israeli Air Force conducted 15 air strikes in Gaza directed at Hamas targets in response to a rocket attack from Palestinian militants. The previous night, fifteen Palestinians were injured in the IAF strikes and two buildings ruined Operation Protective Edge, became a ground war on 8 July 2014, and is believed to have been triggered by the kidnapping and continuous indiscriminate Palestinian rocket fire on Israeli civilians.\n\nOn 11 July 2014 it has been reported by the nonprofit news organization Washington Free Beacon, that a series of bills in the United States Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives was launched, attempting to solve the boys' murder, based on Yaakov Naftali Fraenkel's dual US-Israeli citizenship. The new legislation, if passed, would offer a $5 million reward for information on the abduction and murder.\n\nOn Day 7, The Palestinian Authority declared that the Israeli modus operandi, of clamping down on towns with closures and continual arrest of Hamas members, constituted collective punishment. Amnesty International issued a statement on 19 June calling both for the release of the Israeli youths, their humane treatment while being held, and for Israel to lift several measures it defined as collective punishment in violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention and customary international humanitarian law.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", \"The Israeli security forces closed off the area around Hebron. Some 23,000 local Palestinians were barred from travelling to their jobs in Israel. A series of charitable organisations that used to be run by Hamas were closed down and a dairy, which employs hundreds of Palestinians, was demolished. Hebronites were prevented from travelling abroad.\"\n\nA number of scholars rejected the claim that Operation Brother's Keeper constitutes collective punishment under international law:\n\nIn an address to the World Economic Forum in May 2013, Mahmoud Abbas stated that a primary concern of Palestinian society is the approximately 5,000 Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons. The problem could be handled by negotiated concessions or by abductions, used to get them back. This has been called his Prisoner's dilemma, and he asked if Israel wanted more Shalit kidnapping cases, a practice he maintained went against the grain of Palestinian culture. Hamas quickly challenged his statement as 'unpatriotic'.\n\nSome 300 prisoners are on a hunger strike against the Israeli practice of holding Palestinians in Administrative detention without charges for six months or more. Many Palestinians support the kidnapping of Israeli soldiers and civilians in order to obtain the release of these prisoners. In 2011, Israel released more than a thousand Palestinians in detention, many convicted by Israeli courts for lethal attacks, in exchange for Gilad Shalit, an Israeli soldier kidnapped by Palestinian militants.\n\nSome months before the 2014 incident, an 18-page manual on abduction techniques was published by Hamas. Entitled \"Guide for the Kidnapper\", it provided an operational guide that outlined the use of pistols with silencers, the use of backup cars, the choice of conducting the abductions on rainy days, a command of Hebrew, the renting of hideouts in areas to avoid arousing suspicions and suggestions to refrain from announcing the outcome of the kidnapping until the victims were secured in a safe house. Fatah is reported to believe that Ismail Haniyeh has given the go-ahead to Palestinian cells to pursue such tactics in order to \"bring the prisoners affair to an end\". The difficulty confronting the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, which has an ongoing debate on the issue, is the coordination between the PNA and Israeli security services, which makes executing such operations difficult. Several prior incidents, such as the killings of Givati soldier Gal \"Gavriel\" Kobi and Baruch Mizrahi, a police intelligence officer, displayed exceptional, high-level skills, strict compartmentalization, and careful preparations for an escape route, features shared by the kidnapping. These elements resemble the carefully planned abductions of IDF soldiers by Hezbollah on Israel's northern border.\n\nIsrael said that the IDF and the Shin Bet have foiled between 54 and 64 kidnapping plots since 2013. The PA said it had foiled 43 of them. The high success rate (95%) in blocking such plots is due to the very close cooperation between the security forces of both sides. Hamas has put considerable effort into kidnapping attempts through its large network.\n\nA week into the search for the missing youth, Avi Issacharoff cast doubts on the premise for West Bank operations, which in his view 'targeted the weak'—since Hamas has neither a large or strong presence there—and argued that the operational order, if there was one, came from either Gaza, or abroad, perhaps Ankara-based deportee Saleh al-Arouri, or Khaled Mashaal, who appeared to hint a month earlier in replying to a letter from an imprisoned Hamas leader, after Netanyahu reneged on releasing a fourth group of Palestinian prisoners, that the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades would be his reply. Issacharoff concluded however that, \"There isn't a smoking gun to prove the Hamas leadership is complicit in the kidnapping.\"\n\nOn 20 August, a Hamas official identified the West Bank Qawasmeh clan, a Hamas ally, for the kidnapping of the three Israeli teens and shared their motives. Saleh Al-'Arouri of the Hamas leadership delivered an address on behalf of Khaled Mashal at the conference of the International Union of Muslim Scholars in Istanbul. In it he said: \"Our goal was to ignite an intifada in the West Bank and Jerusalem, as well as within the 1948 borders... Your brothers in the Al-Qassam Brigades carried out this operation to support their imprisoned brothers, who were on a hunger strike... The mujahideen captured these settlers in order to have a swap deal.\"\n\nAs events unfolded, the dangerous nature of hitchhiking in what Israelis refer to as \"the territories\" prompted a debate, regarded by some in the settler and religious Zionist communities as a kind of victim blaming, about the practice of hitching rides on roads in the Palestinian territories, widely regarded as a cavalier and irresponsible habit for the costs involved in redeeming anyone who is captured. The normal Israeli practice is one where drivers pull up, declaring their destination, and, by their accent, allowing potential hikers at \"trempiada\" (hitchhiking stations) an opportunity to examine the cues, before they accept or decline a lift. Such hitchhiking has long been a hallowed method of travel among Israelis, but as abductions and killings of hitchhikers, mainly IDF soldiers, began to take root in the 1980s, one incident in October 1994 led to the passage of regulations that forbade military personnel from resorting to this method of travel. To hammer the message home, recruits doing basic training are required now to view snuff films that highlight the dangers, and military police \"abduct\" and punish recruits who do not take it seriously.\n\nIsraeli governments have not regulated civilian recourse to hitchhiking, and laws delegate responsibility to parents, expecting them to advise their children. The practice however remains widespread among the \"dati leumi\" community of religious Zionists for several reasons: many of them, as in this case, have children boarding in West Bank settlements, where public transport facilities are poor. \"Haaretz\" reported that for mitzvah-observant adolescents, it is \"a rite of passage, a way of life, a declaration of independence and of ownership of the land\". Retired Brigadier General, Nitzan Nuriel, a former counter-terrorism officer in the Prime Minister's Office, declared on Israeli television that hitchhiking had an ideological edge: it made a statement about who owns the territory.\n\nAn Israeli government official stated to \"Reuters\" news agency that Israel was looking to use the search as a pretext for a wider crackdown on Hamas and were looking into the legal aspects of deporting Hamas leaders from the West Bank. A Hebrew-language Facebook page calling on PM Netanyahu to assume his responsibilities and requesting that a Palestinian \"terrorist\" be executed every hour until the three youths are restored to their families, gained 10,000 thumb-ups within hours.\n\nWith a perception in Israel, expressed by Thane Rosenbaum, that the sympathy long lavished on Israel is dwindling, the government stepped up hasbara efforts abroad, especially in Brazil where the 2014 FIFA World Cup has dominated the world's attention. An aircraft trailed a #BringBackOurBoys banner along a Rio de Janeiro beach. The families of the missing boys went to Geneva to address the UN's Human Rights Council.\n\nA social media campaign was started soon after the kidnapping advocating for the safe return of the teens under the hashtag #BringBackOurBoys. According to Robert Mackey, the campaign was initiated by a \"group of Israelis trained to promote their country online\" The campaign's label attempted to make the link between the then-recent #BringBackOurGirls campaign following the Chibok schoolgirl kidnapping in Nigeria. One of the organizers stated the social media effort \"is simply a cry out to the world to bring those boys back\", adding that \"We're only trying to do whatever we can to help the international community to put pressure to release those kids\". On 15 June, around 25,000 people gathered for a prayer at the Western Wall for the release of the kidnapped teenagers.\n\nOn the night of 1 July a Palestinian family registered a complaint at police concerning an attempt to kidnap their child, 10-year-old Moussa Zalum, on Shu'fat's main street in Jerusalem. At the time, they reported, he was walking with his mother and brother when a car stopped and people tried to pull him into the vehicle. The child managed to wriggle free, and the car sped off.\n\nAfter the bodies of the three boys were found, settlers attacks on Palestinians in the West Bank were reported. Settlers from Tel Rumeida in Hebron were in the streets, attacking Palestinians and internationals. The Border Police stormed the hill towards the gathered crowd of Palestinians and internationals, exploded a sound grenade and injured a Palestinian in the following clash.\nOn 2 July a 16-year-old Palestinian from Shu'fat camp, Mohammed Abu Khdeir, was killed; preliminary results from the autopsy suggest he was burnt alive. The boy's family believes the killing to be an act of revenge from Jewish settlers for the murder of the three Israeli teenagers. Netanyahu urged a swift inquiry into the \"reprehensible murder\" and called on people to respect the rule of law.\n\nOn the evening of 3 July, Palestinians of Shu'fat reported to the Israeli police that four settlers from Pisgat Zeev had attempted to kidnap a 7-year-old local child, and had fled on being thwarted. On Friday Palestinians of Osarin near Nablus in the West Bank complained that one of them, 22-year-old Tariq Ziad Zuhdi Adeli, had been sprayed with a gas by settlers, abducted in a car, taken outside the village and then sustained injuries from a hatchet attack to his legs.\n\nThree days later, a video was aired, that appeared as the beating up of 15-year-old American citizen Tariq Abu Khdeir by Israeli security forces. Tariq, a second-cousin of murdered Mohammed Abu Khdeir, is a student who attends Universal Academy of Florida high school in Tampa, Florida. Israeli authorities then detained Tariq. The US State Department has called for \"a speedy, transparent and credible investigation and full accountability for any excessive use of force\". Israeli Border Police started an official investigation on 5 July.\nPalestinian president Mahmoud Abbas, defying widespread popular Palestinian support for the kidnapping as a means of securing the release of Palestinians held in Israeli jails, criticized the action, saying the youths must be returned, and that Palestinian Authority security was cooperating with Israel to try to locate them. Abbas' office released a statement condemning the kidnapping and the Israeli response of raids and arrests. At US urging, Abbas was working closely with Israel to coordinate the search for the teens. A PA spokesman stated that holding Palestinian authorities responsible for kidnappings in Area C of the West Bank, where Israel exercises full military control and prohibits a Palestinian police presence places the PA in an impossible position.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority's official newspaper marked the kidnapping with a cartoon that spoofed the World Cup logo.\nThree hands hold the globe in the FIFA World Cup logo, but in Al-Hayat Al-Jadida, three hands held small helpless figures with their hands up in surrender. While the World Cup logo says \"Brazil\" under it, the spoof says Khalil, the Arabic name for Hebron, a city near the site of the kidnapping.\n\nA cartoon on a Fatah Facebook page presented the three kidnapped Israeli teenagers as rats caught on three hooks on a fishing rod. Each rat was emblazoned with a Star of David, and the title of the cartoon read \"Masterstroke\". A picture on the same Facebook page showed a hand with words written on three of the fingers. Read in succession they said: \"Three Shalits, long live Palestine\".\n\nHamas spokesmen Sami Abu Zuhri and Fawzi Barhoum criticized the PNA collaboration with Israel to track down the culprits, and Barhoum called the kidnappers \"heroes\".\n\nIn social media, many Palestinians criticized what they see as the strong emphasis placed by Israel on the teenagers' disappearance to the detriment of Palestinian suffering, citing the case of two Palestinian boys shot dead by Israelis at a protest in Beitunia during a Nakba Day protest on 15 May 2014.\n\nOn Twitter, in response to the IDF campaign, Palestinian sympathizers appropriated the hashtag as their own, drawing attention to both Palestinian prisoners in Israeli goals and Palestinian children killed by Israeli actions. One mentioned 5,271 Palestinian political prisoners, 192 administrative detainees, 17 women and 196 children. Senior Hamas and Islamic Jihad officials have stated that kidnapping Israeli soldiers and settlers is the only route to obtain the release of Palestinian prisoners. Palestinian Fatah and Hamas activists called on Palestinian shopkeepers and businessmen in Hebron, via Facebook, Twitter and other social media, to destroy any CCTV footage that could be used by Israel to help locate the teens. Fatah activists in Hebron also confiscated security cameras in order to frustrate the search.\n\nIn the Gaza Strip, families of Palestinians imprisoned by Israel celebrated the kidnapping by handing out sweets to passersby from a protest tent that had been erected to express solidarity. Gazan Palestinians also released a song on social networks mocking the kidnappings, and called for additional abductions. A Palestinian group mounted a video on YouTube parodying the abduction, in a fictional scenario featuring an \"Abu Saqer el Khalili Brigades, the Kick Ass Branch\", apparently taking the event to be an Israeli plot with Arab complicity while mocking Islamic extremism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4405614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4405614", "title": "Aaron Doral", "text": "Aaron Doral\n\nAaron Doral (Number Five) is a fictional character from the reimagined \"Battlestar Galactica\" series.\n\nPrior to the Fall, Aaron Doral is the civilian Public Relations Officer aboard the battlestar \"Galactica\". During the events of the miniseries, Gaius Baltar's attention is drawn by his apparational Number Six to a device in the \"Galactica\"'s CIC. Six convinces Baltar that it is a Cylon device and that he can do nothing about it without revealing his connection to her. Panicking, Baltar wonders aloud whether Doral (whose movements are relatively unsupervised) could be a Cylon agent, which Six denies. Baltar accuses Doral anyway, and the XO, Col. Saul Tigh, throws Doral in the brig. \n\nDoral emphatically denies being a Cylon, but after Cdr. William Adama is forced to kill Number Two, Baltar frames Doral with what he claims is a \"Cylon test.\" Unwilling to risk the chance that Baltar is right, Adama abandons Doral (presumably to die) at the Ragnar Anchorage when the ragtag fleet leaves the Cyrannus system forever. The audience swiftly learns, however, that Baltar was (unwittingly) correct: Soon after the \"Galactica\" leaves Ragnar, Doral is rescued by several Twos, Fives, Sixes, and at least one Eight.\n\nThroughout the show, the Colonial authorities tend to use \"Doral\" and \"Leoben\" as generic terms for Numbers Two and Five respectively. A second Five detonates a suicide bomb in the episode Litmus, and many more Fives appear operating Cylon baseships and the Cylon occupations of the Colonies and New Caprica. The Fives side with the Ones and Fours in the brief Cylon Civil War.\n\nThe Fives have an unassuming, \"average\" appearance in order to better blend into the background. Several Fives appear to have positions of authority among the Cylons, acting as an overseer. For example, the project to have an Eight seduce Karl \"Helo\" Agathon is supervised by a Five who monitors and directs the situation with apparent curiosity. \n\nOthers, however, seem to have below-average intelligence: In \",\" a Number One berates a confused Doral copy (wearing clothing nearly identical to the first copy encountered by the Colonials) for his lack of disguise and caution while wandering the \"Galactica\". A later scene shows a small group of Doral copies assigned to menial labor disposing of masses of human corpses on occupied Caprica, doing work they complain is below them and should be handled by Centurions. \n\nThe Fives seem more fanatical and compassionless than the other humanoid Cylons, excluding the Number Ones. They are the only humanoid Cylon model never shown in any kind of romantic or sexual relationship. They discuss the genocide of mankind in calm, functional abstractions, and unhesitatingly resort to violence. In \"Torn\" a Number Eight accuses Doral of \"barely even being able to say [God's] name,\" suggesting that the Fives' pieties are a sham.\n\n"}
{"id": "35613366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35613366", "title": "Aaron ben Meir of Brest", "text": "Aaron ben Meir of Brest\n\nAaron ben Meir of Brest was a Belarusian rabbi; born about the beginning of the eighteenth century at Brest-Litovsk, Belarus (then Russia); died there Nov. 3, 1777. He was a descendant of the family of Katzenellenbogen-Padua, and received his Talmudical instruction from Eliezer ben Eliezer Kolir, a well-known Pilpulist and the author of a number of rabbinical works.\n\nAaron carried the Pilpul method to its extreme limits, and was the author of \"Minḥat Aharon\" (Aaron's Offering, Novydvor, 1792), a work containing glosses on the Talmudic treatise Sanhedrin, and a masterpiece of rabbinical dialectics (Pilpul). At the end of the work is an appendix, called \"Minḥah Belulah,\" which contains responsa and commentaries on Talmudic topics. Some of his responsa may be found in the \"Meḳor Mayim Ḥayyim\" (Sudilkov, 1836), a work by his grandson, Jacob Meir of Padua. Aaron's father was one of the leaders () of the Jewish community of Brest-Litovsk; and his signature is attached to a letter sent in 1752 by that community to Jonathan Eybeschütz assuring him of their support in his dispute with Emden.\n"}
{"id": "47254198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47254198", "title": "Allahabad (ship)", "text": "Allahabad (ship)\n\nAllahabad was an iron sailing ship of 1,190 tons gross and 1,143 tons net register. It was built in Liverpool in 1864, and at the time of her loss was the property of Thomas Wall Stephens of London and him being the managing owner.\n\n\"Allahabad\" last left Glasgow on 2 July 1886, with a crew of 20 and a cargo of 1,712 tons, of which 1,635 were coals, bound to Dunedin, New Zealand. Having been signalled on 7 July off the Tuscar, she was on 4 September following, spoken, in about by \"South Australian\". From that time she has not been seen or heard of, and never arrived at her destination.\n"}
{"id": "40071145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40071145", "title": "Ambiguous loss", "text": "Ambiguous loss\n\nAmbiguous loss is a loss that occurs without closure or understanding. This kind of loss leaves a person searching for answers, and thus complicates and delays the process of grieving, and often results in unresolved grief. Some examples are infertility, termination of pregnancy, disappearance of a family member, death of an ex-spouse, a family member being physically alive but in a state of cognitive decline due to Alzheimer's disease or dementia, etc. An ambiguous loss can be categorized into two types of loss, physical or psychological. Physical loss and psychological loss differ in terms of what is being grieved for, the loss of the physical body, or the psychological mind. Experiencing an ambiguous loss can lead to personal questions, such as, \"Am I still married to my missing spouse?,\" or \"Am I still a child to a parent who no longer remembers me?\". Since the grief process in an ambiguous loss is halted, it is harder to cope or move on to acceptance from the type of loss experienced. There are various types of grief that can occur due to the type of ambiguity experienced and corresponding therapy techniques to address the certain types of grief. The overall goal of therapy to cope with ambiguous loss is to overcome the trauma associated with it and restoring resilience.\n\nAn ambiguous loss can be physical or psychological in nature.\n\nA physical ambiguous loss means that the body of a loved one is no longer around, such as a missing person or unrecovered body from war, but is still remembered psychologically due to the chance of coming back, for example in missing person cases. A physical ambiguous loss can occur across generations, such as the families of victims of the holocaust, and can cause as traumatic distress as Posttraumatic stress disorder. \n\nThe second type of ambiguous loss is where a person is still physically there, but is psychologically absent. This happens in cases where the brain is affected, therefore affecting the behavior or well being of the individual. Psychological ambiguous loss does not just occur to family and friends of the person affected. Psychological loss can happen personally in terms of one losing sense of who they are. This can stem from having a traumatic brain injury and not knowing who they are, causing a lost feeling and uncertain identity issues.\n\nThe grieving process for an ambiguous loss differs from regular mourning in unable to gain closure due to unresolved grief. In cases of a psychological ambiguous loss, the grieving process can be especially difficult because of the inability to accept or admit that there is a problem and cannot confront their situation in the first place in order to deal with the problem. One key factor in getting over an ambiguous loss is resilience. In the normal grieving process, people obtain closure after dealing with a loss. In an ambiguous loss, closure does not exist, and should not be sought after in this case.\nResilience and hope are important in the case of an ambiguous loss because paired together, they are able to allow the individual to come to terms with the loss and continue moving forward in life. Some ways to tell that one is resilient in a case with ambiguous loss is actively seek out help when they know it is needed. Uncontrollable factors such as culture, age, socioeconomic status, and genetics are all factors that contribute to resilience. Trauma and ambiguous loss often co-exist together and if the trauma is not dealt with it can trigger unresolved emotions. Therapy will address a case of ambiguous loss by restoring resilience, and reconnecting with the loss and the relationship with whom the loss is associated.\n\nThe difference between regular grief and grief from an ambiguous loss is the type of loss creates the type of grief experienced. Grief in ambiguous loss can be both beneficial and difficult. Since the grief in an ambiguous loss differs than the linear stages of grief there is no pressure to move on or achieve closure, and this allows for people to remember the lost loved one and move on with relationships and life. There are three specific types of grief that can develop from the type of ambiguous loss. \nAnticipatory grief occurs before bereavement, mourning after death occurs, and upon realizing that death may be imminent for a loved one, anticipatory grief sets in. This type of grief is common among families who have a loved one living with Alzheimer's disease. The grief becomes anticipatory due to the knowledge that the loved one's mental state will only become worse, so the grieving process can start very early.\n\nThe second type of grief that can develop from an ambiguous loss is disenfranchised grief. It is also known as unrecognized grief because it often occurs in the loss of a beloved pet and the grief is not taken seriously.\nFrozen grief is the third type of grief, it is a result of the ambiguity of death because of the physical or psychological disappearance and therefore one's grief is frozen since they do not get a chance to let grief run a normal course.\n\nThe term \"ambiguous loss\" was first used in the 1970s by Pauline Boss, a researcher who studied families of soldiers who went missing in action and coined the term in the late 1970s. During her research, Boss, had previously used the term boundary ambiguity from 1973 up until 1977, and that term was later replaced with ambiguous loss in 1977.\n"}
{"id": "42892263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42892263", "title": "Amphicarpy", "text": "Amphicarpy\n\nAmphicarpy is a reproductive strategy that occurs with nine plant families, expressed mostly in species with an annual life cycle. It is characterized by production of two types of fruit, for different ecological roles. It is sometimes restricted to the situation where one fruit type is aerial and the other subterranean (hypogeous), and distinguished from heterocarpy. The word amphicarp is the contraction of the Greek words \"ἀμφί\" meaning \"of both kinds\" and \"καρπός\" meaning fruit.\n\nIn a typical plant with amphicarpy, one fruit type is underground. These underground fruits usually develop from self-pollinating flowers. The fruits that develop from the aerial flowers may often be the result of cross-pollination.\n\nPlants use this strategy to increase the chance that their genetic material is passed on. It can be referred to as bet hedging in which an organism produces several different phenotypes. Seeds from the underground flowers have low genetic variability (due to their selfing), tend to be larger, and may germinate from within the tissues of the flower, so ensuring that the annual can remain at the site that was suitable to it in the preceding year. Seeds from aerial flowers usually have greater genetic variability, tend to be smaller, and may be spread further. This assists the colonization of new territory, but also helps the exchange of genetic material between populations.\n\nWorldwide, approximately fifty species exhibit amphicarpy, or 0.02% of the known species of flowering plants. Most of these fifty species occur in often disturbed or very stressful circumstances. In Israel, a country that harbors many disturbed habitats, with eight out of a total flora of twenty five hundred species, a much higher percentage of 0.32% is amphicarpic. Species that use amphicarpy include \"Catananche lutea\", \"Gymnarrhena micrantha\" and \"Polygala lewtonii\". \"Trifolium polymorphum\" is a perennial, that combines amphicarpy with vegetative reproduction through stolons. It grows in grasslands where its aerial flowers may not come into seed due to herbivores.\n"}
{"id": "56146931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56146931", "title": "Anne Ector Pleasant", "text": "Anne Ector Pleasant\n\nAnne Ector Pleasant (April 16, 1878 – September 13, 1934) was an American school teacher and founder of the private school Pleasant Hall in Shreveport which operated for more than fifty years. Between 1916 and 1920, she was the First Lady of Louisiana and though she supported women's suffrage, she was not in favor of passage of the Nineteenth Amendment, believing voting rights were a state rather than a federal issue.\n\nAnne Ector was born on April 16, 1878 in Marshall, Texas to Sarah Parish \"Sally\" (née Chew) and General Matthew D. Ector. Her father was a brigadier general in the Confederate States Army, who was wounded during the Atlanta Campaign in 1864 and then returned to Texas where he served as a judge. At the time of his death in 1879, he was the presiding judge of the Court of Appeals. Her mother was originally from Kentucky and after her husband's death raised Anne and her siblings, Helen, Walker and William. Ector attended Belwood Seminary in Anchorage, Kentucky and went on to further her schooling at the Sam Houston Normal Institute in Huntsville, Texas, graduating in 1899.\n\nAfter completing her education, Ector began teaching in Texas and taught for several years until her marriage on February 14, 1906 to Ruffin Pleasant, who was the city attorney for Shreveport, Louisiana. After her marriage, Pleasant was active in the woman's club movement, serving as president of the district Federation of Women's Clubs, while her husband served for six years as city attorney and then worked in private practice as a lawyer. He was appointed as assistant attorney general in 1911, causing the couple to move to New Orleans and then was made attorney general in 1912. After four years, he was elected as Governor of Louisiana. During his governorship, Pleasant was active in the suffrage movement. While she was in favor of women's suffrage, she was against the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, believing that states, rather than the federal government should determine who should be eligible to vote.\n\nIn 1920, when her term as First Lady ended, the couple returned to Shreveport. Within three years, Pleasant, who had been privately tutoring students in her home, opened Pleasant Hall, a private elementary school. The school focused on basic studies in reading, writing and arithmetic, but also offered instruction in French, English grammar and both music and art. Classes were held in the couple's home, which was located at 1703 Highland Avenue, on the corner with Wyandotte Street.\n\nPleasant was known as an opponent of Louisiana politician Huey Long and the two had a history of oral conflicts. In 1933, she made national headlines when she sued Long, alleging that while investigating documentation on nepotism and \"questionable use and disposition\" of the public's taxes in government institutions, she was removed from the courthouse, arrested and slandered when Long called her a \"drunken, cursing woman\". Initially, she asked for $250,000, but the amended her petition to double the amount, when she felt Long was trying to intimidate her. Long tried to have the case dismissed on the grounds that under Louisiana law Pleasant could not sue in her own name, as under the state community property law, the suit would only be proper if filed in her husband's name. District Judge W. Carruth Jones rejected the argument based on similar cases that had been elevated to the Supreme Court.\n\nPleasant died on September 13, 1934, after being rushed to the hospital in Shreveport, having accidentally consumed poison when she drank an antiseptic, thinking it was her medicine. After her death, her husband took over the operation of Pleasant Hall and ran it until his death in 1937. When he died, his sister, Mrs. Lucille Johnson took over the management of the school, which continued operating until the 1970s and maintained a reputation for its high educational standard in liberal arts. The home where the school was housed is noted by a tourist marker, as the last remaining home in Shreveport occupied by a state governor.\n\n"}
{"id": "3017505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3017505", "title": "Aristotelian ethics", "text": "Aristotelian ethics\n\nAristotle first used the term ethics to name a field of study developed by his predecessors Socrates and Plato. Philosophical ethics is the attempt to offer a rational response to the question of how humans should best live. Aristotle regarded ethics and politics as two related but separate fields of study, since ethics examines the good of the individual, while politics examines the good of the city-state.\n\nAristotle's writings have been read more or less continuously since ancient times, and his ethical treatises in particular continue to influence philosophers working today. Aristotle emphasized the importance of developing excellence (virtue) of character (Greek \"ēthikē aretē\"), as the way to achieve what is finally more important, excellent conduct (Greek \"energeia\"). As Aristotle argues in Book II of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", the man who possesses character excellence does the right thing, at the right time, and in the right way. Bravery, and the correct regulation of one's bodily appetites, are examples of character excellence or virtue. So acting bravely and acting temperately are examples of excellent activities. The highest aims are living well and \"eudaimonia\" a Greek word often translated as well-being, happiness or \"human flourishing\". Like many ethicists, Aristotle regards excellent activity as pleasurable for the man of virtue. For example, Aristotle thinks that the man whose appetites are in the correct order actually takes pleasure in acting moderately.\n\nAristotle emphasized that virtue is practical, and that the purpose of ethics is to become good, not merely to know. Aristotle also claims that the right course of action depends upon the details of a particular situation, rather than being generated merely by applying a law. The type of wisdom which is required for this is called \"prudence\" or \"practical wisdom\" (Greek \"phronesis\"), as opposed to the wisdom of a theoretical philosopher (Greek \"sophia\"). But despite the importance of practical decision making, in the final analysis the original Aristotelian and Socratic answer to the question of how best to live, at least for the best types of human, was to live the life of philosophy.'\n\nThree Aristotelian ethical works survive today which are considered to be either by Aristotle, or from relatively soon after:\n\nThe exact origins of these texts is unclear, although they were already considered the works of Aristotle in ancient times. Textual oddities suggest that they may not have been put in their current form by Aristotle himself. For example, Books IV–VI of \"Eudemian Ethics\" also appear as Books V–VII of \"Nicomachean Ethics\". The authenticity of the \"Magna Moralia\" has been doubted, whereas almost no modern scholar doubts that Aristotle wrote the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" and the \"Eudemian Ethics\" himself, even if an editor also played some part in giving us those texts in their current forms.\n\nThe \"Nicomachean Ethics\" has received the most scholarly attention, and is the most easily available to modern readers in many different translations and editions. Some critics consider the \"Eudemian Ethics\" to be \"less mature,\" while others, such as Kenny (1978), contend that the \"Eudemian Ethics\" is the more mature, and therefore later, work.\n\nTraditionally it was believed that the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" and the \"Eudemian Ethics\" were either edited by or dedicated to Aristotle's son and pupil Nicomachus and his disciple Eudemus, respectively, although the works themselves do not explain the source of their names. Although Aristotle's father was also called Nicomachus, Aristotle's son was the next leader of Aristotle's school, the Lyceum, and in ancient times he was already associated with this work.\n\nA fourth treatise, Aristotle's \"Politics\", is often regarded as the sequel to the Ethics, in part because Aristotle closes the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" by saying that his ethical inquiry has laid the groundwork for an inquiry into political questions (\"NE\" X.1181b6-23). Aristotle's Ethics also states that the good of the individual is subordinate to the good of the city-state, or \"polis\".\n\nFragments also survive from Aristotle's \"Protrepticus\", another work which dealt with ethics.\n\nSome scholars regarded Aristotle as a Socratic thinker. Aristotle's ethics builds upon earlier Greek thought, particularly that of his teacher Plato and Plato's teacher, Socrates. While Socrates left no written works, and Plato wrote dialogues and a few letters, Aristotle wrote treatises in which he sets forth philosophical doctrines directly. To be more precise, Aristotle did write dialogues, but they unfortunately survive only in fragments.\n\nAccording to Aristotle in his \"Metaphysics\", Socrates was the first Greek philosopher to concentrate on ethics, although he apparently did not give it this name, as a philosophical inquiry concerning how people should best live. Aristotle dealt with this same question but giving it two names, \"the political\" (or Politics) and \"the ethical\" (Ethics), both with Politics being the name for the two together as the more important part. The original Socratic questioning on ethics started at least partly as a response to sophism, which was a popular style of education and speech at the time. Sophism emphasized rhetoric, and argument, and therefore often involved criticism of traditional Greek religion and flirtation with moral relativism.\n\nAristotle's ethics, or study of character, is built around the premise that people should achieve an excellent character (a virtuous character, \"ethikē aretē\" in Greek) as a pre-condition for attaining happiness or well-being (\"eudaimonia\"). It is sometimes referred to in comparison to later ethical theories as a \"character based ethics\". Like Plato and Socrates he emphasized the importance of reason for human happiness, and that there were logical and natural reasons for humans to behave virtuously, and try to become virtuous.\n\nAristotle's treatment of the subject is distinct in several ways from that found in Plato's Socratic dialogues.\n\n\nAristotle believed that ethical knowledge is not only a theoretical knowledge, but rather that a person must have \"experience of the actions in life\" and have been \"brought up in fine habits\" to become good (NE 1095a3 and b5). For a person to become virtuous, he can't simply study what virtue \"is\", but must actually do virtuous things.\n\nThe Aristotelian Ethics all aim to begin with approximate but uncontroversial starting points. In the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" Aristotle says explicitly that one must begin with what is familiar to us, and \"the that\" or \"the fact that\" (\"NE\" I.1095b2-13). Ancient commentators agree that what Aristotle means here is that his treatise must rely upon practical, everyday knowledge of virtuous actions as the starting points of his inquiry, and that he is supposing that his readers have some kind of experience-based understanding of such actions, and that they value noble and just actions to at least some degree.\n\nElsewhere, Aristotle also seems to rely upon common conceptions of how the world works. In fact, some regard his ethical inquiries as using a method that relies upon popular opinion (his so-called \"endoxic method\" from the Grk. \"endoxa\"). There is some dispute, however, about exactly how such common conceptions fit into Aristotle's method in his ethical treatises, particularly since he also makes use of more formal arguments, especially the so-called \"function argument,\" which is described below.\n\nAristotle describes popular accounts about what kind of life would be a happy one by classifying them into three most common types: a life dedicated to vulgar pleasure; a life dedicated to fame and honor; and a life dedicated to contemplation (\"NE\" I.1095b17-19). To reach his own conclusion about the best life, however, Aristotle tries to isolate the function of humans. The argument he develops here is accordingly widely known as \"the function argument,\" and is among the most-discussed arguments made by any ancient philosopher. He argues that while humans undergo nutrition and growth, so do other living things, and while humans are capable of perception, this is shared with animals (\"NE\" I.1098b22-1098a15). Thus neither of these characteristics is particular to humans. According to Aristotle, what remains and what is distinctively human is reason. Thus he concludes that the human function is some kind of excellent exercise of the intellect. And, since Aristotle thinks that practical wisdom rules over the character excellences, exercising such excellences is one way to exercise reason and thus fulfill the human function.\n\nOne common objection to Aristotle's function argument is that it uses descriptive or factual premises to derive conclusions about what is good. Such arguments are often thought to run afoul of the is-ought gap.\n\nMoral virtue, or excellence of character, is the disposition (Grk \"hexis\") to act excellently, which a person develops partly as a result of his upbringing, and partly as a result of his habit of action. Aristotle develops his analysis of character in Book II of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", where he makes this argument that character arises from habit—likening ethical character to a skill that is acquired through practice, such as learning a musical instrument. In Book III of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle argues that a person's character is voluntary, since it results from many individual actions which are under his voluntary control.\n\nAristotle distinguishes the disposition to feel emotions of a certain kind from virtue and vice. But such emotional dispositions may also lie at a mean between two extremes, and these are also to some extent a result of up-bringing and habituation. Two examples of such dispositions would be modesty, or a tendency to feel shame, which Aristotle discusses in NE IV.9; and righteous indignation (\"nemesis\"), which is a balanced feeling of sympathetic pain concerning the undeserved pleasures and pains of others. Exactly which habitual dispositions are virtues or vices and which only concern emotions, differs between the different works which have survived, but the basic examples are consistent, as is the basis for distinguishing them in principle.\n\nSome people, despite intending to do the right thing, cannot act according to their own choice. For example, someone may choose to refrain from eating chocolate cake, but finds himself eating the cake contrary to his own choice. Such a failure to act in a way that is consistent with one's own decision is called \"akrasia\", and may be translated as weakness of will, incontinence, or lack of self-mastery.\n\nVices of courage must also be identified which are cowardice and recklessness. Soldiers who are not prudent act with cowardice, and soldiers who do not have temperance act with recklessness. One should not be unjust toward their enemy no matter the circumstance. On another note, one becomes virtuous by first imitating another who exemplifies such virtuous characteristics, practicing such ways in their daily lives, turning those ways into customs and habits by performing them each and every day, and finally, connecting or uniting the four of them together.\n\nOnly soldiers can exemplify such virtues because war demands soldiers to exercise disciplined and firm virtues, but war does everything in its power to shatter the virtues it demands. Since virtues are very fragile, they must be practiced always, for if they are not practiced they will weaken and eventually disappear. One who is virtuous has to avoid the enemies of virtue which are indifference or persuasion that something should not be done, self-indulgence or persuasion that something can wait and does not need to be done at that moment, and despair or persuasion that something simply cannot be accomplished anyway. In order for one to be virtuous they must display prudence, temperance, courage, and justice; moreover, they have to display all four of them and not just one or two to be virtuous.\n\nAristotle devotes Book V of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" to justice (this is also Book IV of the \"Eudemian Ethics\"). In this discussion, Aristotle defines justice as having two different but related senses—general justice and particular justice. General justice is virtue expressed in relation to other people. Thus the just man in this sense deals properly and fairly with others, and expresses his virtue in his dealings with them—not lying or cheating or taking from others what is owed to them.\nParticular justice is the correct distribution of just deserts to others. For Aristotle, such justice is proportional—it has to do with people receiving what is proportional to their merit or their worth. In his discussion of particular justice, Aristotle says an educated judge is needed to apply just decisions regarding any particular case. This is where we get the image of the scales of justice, the blindfolded judge symbolizing blind justice, balancing the scales, weighing all the evidence and deliberating each particular case individually.\n\nIn his ethical works, Aristotle describes \"eudaimonia\" as the highest human good. In Book I of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" he goes on to identify \"eudaimonia\" as the excellent exercise of the intellect, leaving it open whether he means practical activity or intellectual activity.\nWith respect to practical activity, in order to exercise any one of the practical excellences in the highest way, a person must possess all the others. Aristotle therefore describes several apparently different kinds of virtuous person as necessarily having all the moral virtues, excellences of character.\n\nAristotle also says, for example in NE Book VI, that such a complete virtue requires intellectual virtue, not only practical virtue, but also theoretical wisdom. Such a virtuous person, if they can come into being, will choose the most pleasant and happy life of all, which is the philosophical life of contemplation and speculation.\n\nAristotle claims that a human's highest functioning must include reasoning, being good at what sets humans apart from everything else. Or, as Aristotle explains it, \"The function of man is activity of soul in accordance with reason, or at least not without reason.\" He identifies two different ways in which the soul can engage: \"reasoning\" (both practical and theoretical) and \"following reasoning\". A person that does this is the happiest because they are fulfilling their purpose or nature as found in the rational soul.\n\nIn other words, the thinker is not only the 'best' person, but is also most like God.\n\nAristotle's writings were taught in the Academy in Athens until 529 CE when the Byzantine Emperor Justinian I closed down non-Christian schools of philosophy.\n\nAristotle's work however continued to be taught as a part of secular education. Aristotle's teachings spread through the Mediterranean and the Middle East, where some early Islamic regimes allowed rational philosophical descriptions of the natural world. Alfarabi was a major influence in all medieval philosophy and wrote many works which included attempts to reconcile the ethical and political writings of Plato and Aristotle. Later Avicenna, and later still Averroes, were Islamic philosophers who commented on Aristotle as well as writing their own philosophy in Arabic. Averroes, a European Muslim, was particularly influential in turn upon European Christian philosophers, theologians and political thinkers.\n\nIn the twelfth century, Latin translations of Aristotle's works were made, enabling the Dominican priest Albert the Great and his pupil Thomas Aquinas to synthesize Aristotle's philosophy with Christian theology. Later the medieval church scholasticism in Western Europe insisted on Thomist views and suppressed non-Aristotelian metaphysics. Aquinas' writings are full of references to Aristotle, and he wrote a commentary on Aristotle's \"Nicomachean Ethics\". Aquinas also departed from Aristotle in certain respects. In particular, his \"Summa Theologica\" argued that \"Eudaimonia\" or human flourishing was held to be a temporary goal for this life, but perfect happiness as the ultimate goal could only be attained in the next life by the virtuous. Aquinas also added new theological virtues to Aristotle's system: faith, hope and charity. And supernatural assistance could help people to achieve virtue. Nevertheless, much of Aristotle's ethical thought remained intact in Aquinas.\n\nIn modern times, Aristotle's writings on ethics remain among the most influential in his broad corpus, along with The Rhetoric, and The Poetics, while his scientific writings tend to be viewed as of more strictly historical interest. Modern science develops theories about the physical world based on experiments and careful observation—in particular, on the basis of exact measurements of time and distance. Aristotle, on the other hand, bases his science largely on qualitative and non-experimental observation. Accordingly, he made some inaccurate claims which have been overturned—such as the claim that objects of different mass accelerate at different rates due to gravity.\n\nOn the other hand, The \"Nicomachean Ethics\" continues to be relevant to philosophers today. In fact, virtue ethics takes its inspiration from Aristotle's approach to ethics—in particular, sharing his emphasis on character excellence, and ethical psychology. Some philosophers, in particular Bernard Williams, regard Aristotle's ethics as superior to the Utilitarian and Kantian traditions, which have come to be the dominant approaches to philosophical ethics. Aristotle's well-known function argument is less commonly accepted today, since he seems to use it in order to develop a claim about human perfection from an observation from what is distinctive about man. But the exact role of the function argument in Aristotle's ethical theory is itself a matter of dispute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6917263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6917263", "title": "Biostratinomy", "text": "Biostratinomy\n\nBiostratinomy is the study of the processes that take place after an organism dies but before its final burial. It is considered to be a subsection of the science of taphonomy, along with necrology (the study of the death of an organism) and diagenesis (the changes that take place after final burial). These processes are largely destructive, and include physical, chemical and biological effects:\n\n\nFor the vast majority of organisms, biostratinomic destruction is total. However, if at least a few remnants of an organism make it to final burial, a fossil may eventually be formed unless destruction is completed by diagenesis. As the processes of biostratinomy are often dominated by sedimentological factors, analysis of the biostratinomy of a fossil can reveal important features about the physical environment it once lived in. The boundaries between the three disciplines within taphonomy are partly arbitrary. In particular, the role of microbes in sealing and preserving organisms, for example in a process called autolithification, is now recognised to be a very important and early event in the preservation of many exceptional fossils, often taking place before burial. Such mineralogical changes might equally be considered to be biostratinomic as diagenetic.\n\nA school of investigation called Aktuopaläontologie, subsisting largely in Germany, attempts to investigate biostratinomic effects by experimentation and observation on extant organisms. William Schäfer's book \"Ecology and palaeoecology of marine environments\" is a classic product of this sort of investigation. More recently, D.E.G. Briggs and colleagues have made detailed studies of decay with the prime aim of understanding the profound halt to these processes that is required by exceptional preservation in lagerstätten.\n\nSchäfer, W., 1972. Ecology and palaeoecology of marine environments. C. Y. Craig, Ed. The University of Chicago Press, 568 pp.\n"}
{"id": "204198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204198", "title": "Carrick mat", "text": "Carrick mat\n\nThe carrick mat is a flat woven decorative knot which can be used as a mat or pad. Its name is based on the mat's decorative-type carrick bend with the ends connected together, forming an endless knot. A larger form, called the prolong knot, is made by expanding the basic carrick mat by extending, twisting, and overlapping its outer bights, then weaving the free ends through them. This process may be repeated to produce an arbitrarily long mat.\n\nIn its basic form it is the same as a 3-lead, 4-bight Turk's head knot. The basic carrick mat, made with two passes of rope, also forms the central motif in the logo of the International Guild of Knot Tyers. \n\nWhen tied to form a cylinder around the central opening, instead of lying flat, it can be used as a woggle.\n\n"}
{"id": "694155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=694155", "title": "Character assassination", "text": "Character assassination\n\nCharacter assassination is a deliberate and sustained process that destroys the credibility and reputation of a person, institution, organization, social group, or nation. Agents of character assassinations employ a mix of open and covert methods to achieve their goals, such as raising false accusations, planting and fostering rumours, and manipulating information.\n\nCharacter assassination is an attempt to tarnish a person's reputation. It may involve exaggeration, misleading half-truths, or manipulation of facts to present an untrue picture of the targeted person. It is a form of defamation and can be a form of \"ad hominem\" argument.\n\nFor living individuals targeted by character assassination attempts, this may result in being rejected by their community, family, or members of their living or work environment. Such acts are often difficult to reverse or rectify, and the process is likened to a literal assassination of a human life. The damage sustained can last a lifetime or, for historical figures, for many centuries after their death.\n\nThe phrase \"character assassination\" became popular from around 1930. One of the first mentions of the phrasing in literature is dated 1950 in the collection of essays by Jerome Davis.\n\nIn practice, character assassination may involve doublespeak, spreading of rumours, innuendo or deliberate misinformation on topics relating to the subject's morals, integrity, and reputation. It may involve spinning information that is technically true, but that is presented in a misleading manner or is presented without the necessary context. For example, it might be said that a person refused to pay any income tax during a specific year, without saying that no tax was actually owed due to the person having no income that year, or that a person was sacked from a firm, even though he may have been made redundant through no fault of his own, rather than being terminated for cause.\n\nOthers define character assassination as the deliberate destruction of an individual's reputation, which does not include social groups or institutions. It is important to distinguish between character attacks and character assassination. Character attacks are assaults aimed at a particular individual—as opposed to attacks aimed at certain groups, movements, or nationalities, such as happen in the construction of enemy images.\nIf they succeed in destroying their victim's reputation, we speak of successful attacks and character assassination. However, attacks can also fail.\n\nThree features of character attacks are important to understand. First, their intention: character attacks are by definition deliberate. Second, the public nature of the attacks: private insults do not lead to reputation damage. And third, the importance of the public perception of the attacks, which means that the truth of allegations is irrelevant.\n\nAccording to Thomas, character assassination is an intentional attempt, usually by a narcissist and/or his or her codependents, to influence the portrayal or reputation of someone in such a way as to cause others to develop an extremely negative or unappealing perception of him or her. It typically involves deliberate exaggeration or manipulation of facts, the spreading of rumours and deliberate misinformation to present an untrue picture of the targeted person, and unwarranted and excessive criticism.\n\nThe authors of the book \"\" describe a five phase model of how a typical workplace psychopath climbs to and maintains power. In phase four (confrontation), the psychopath will use techniques of character assassination to maintain their agenda.\n\nIn politics, character assassination is a form of negative campaigning. Opposition research is the practice of collecting information on someone that can be used to discredit them. A smear campaign is the use of falsehoods or distortions. Scandalmongering can be used to associate a person with a negative event in a false or exaggerated way.\n\nPerhaps the most common form of character assassination is the spread of allegations that a candidate is a liar. Other common themes may include allegations that the candidate is a bad or unpopular member of his family, has a bad relationship with his spouse or children or is not respected by his colleagues. Another theme claims that the person routinely engages in disturbing, socially unacceptable behavior, such as sexual deviancy. The person may also be portrayed as holding beliefs widely considered despicable within society, such as supporting racism or other forms of bigotry.\n\nCharging an opponent with character assassination may have political benefits. In the hearings for Clarence Thomas' nomination to the Supreme Court of the United States, supporters claimed that both Clarence Thomas and Anita Hill were victims of character assassination.\n\nThe International Society for the Study of Character Assassination (ISSCA) specialises in the academic study and research of how character attacks and assassinations have been executed in both history and during contemporary times.\n\nCharacter attacks come in three categories. The first is attacks between equals. These often happen in democracies, especially during elections. The second is top-down attacks, or authoritarian regimes cracking down on individuals. Examples include:\n\n\nThe third is bottom-up attacks, or individuals attacking authoritarian leaders. Examples include:\n\n\nThe effect of a character assassination driven by an individual is not equal to that of a state-driven campaign.\nThe state-sponsored destruction of reputations, fostered by political propaganda and cultural mechanisms, can have more far-reaching consequences. One of the earliest signs of a society's compliance to loosening the reins on the perpetration of crimes (and even massacres) with total impunity is when a government favors or directly encourages a campaign aimed at destroying the dignity and reputation of its adversaries, and the public accepts its allegations without question. The mobilisation toward ruining the reputation of adversaries is the prelude to the mobilisation of violence in order to annihilate them. Generally, official dehumanisation has preceded the physical assault of the victims.\n\nIn July 2011, scholars from nine countries gathered at the University of Heidelberg, Germany, to debate \"the art of smear and defamation in history and today\". They formed a group to study character assassination throughout the ages. The group included historians, political scientists, and political psychologists.\n"}
{"id": "22803074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22803074", "title": "Danya Alhamrani", "text": "Danya Alhamrani\n\nDanya M. Alhamrani (born c. 1975) is a managing partner in the Saudi company Eggdancer Productions. Born in Bismarck, North Dakota, she is most notable in the West for getting her hometown of Jeddah, Saudi Arabia selected for the \"FAN-atic\" episode of .\n\nAlhamrani, along with her partner Dania Nassief, are the first women in Saudi Arabia allowed to own and manage a company without a male business partner. Alhamrani has an MA in TV and Film Production from San Diego State University, and worked on the Emmy Award winning television series \"The Short List\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2309356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2309356", "title": "David Bailey (actor)", "text": "David Bailey (actor)\n\nDavid Bailey (October 27, 1933 – November 25, 2004) was an American actor. Born in Newark, New Jersey, he went on to have a lengthy career in theater and television, perhaps his best known role being Dr. Russ Matthews on the long-running daytime soap \"Another World\" (1973–1978, 1979–1981, 1989, 1992). \n\nOn November 25, 2004, Bailey drowned in the pool at his home in Los Angeles, California. He was 71 years old. His grave is located in Forest Lawn – Hollywood Hills Cemetery.\n\nAt the time of his death he had been playing Alistair Crane on the daytime soap \"Passions\" for less than three months, to great fan and critical praise. After his death, the role was recast with soap actor John Reilly. \nThe following year, Bailey's son Xander had a small role on \"Passions\" as Edmund, a man who dated Alistair's granddaughter, Fancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "31437554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31437554", "title": "Death of Christopher Alder", "text": "Death of Christopher Alder\n\nChristopher Alder was a trainee computer programmer and former British Army paratrooper who had served in the Falklands War and was commended for his service with the Army in Northern Ireland. He died while in police custody at Queen's Gardens Police Station, Kingston upon Hull, in April 1998. The case became a cause célèbre for civil rights campaigners in the United Kingdom. He had earlier been the victim of an assault outside a nightclub and was taken to Hull Royal Infirmary where, possibly as a result of his head injury, staff said his behaviour was \"extremely troublesome.\" He was escorted from the hospital by two police officers who arrested him to prevent a breach of the peace. \n\nOn arrival at the police station Alder was \"partially dragged and partially carried,\" handcuffed and unconscious, from a police van and placed on the floor of the custody suite. Officers chatted between themselves and speculated that he was faking illness. Twelve minutes later one of the officers present noticed that Alder was not making any breathing noises and although resuscitation was attempted, he was pronounced dead at the scene. A post mortem indicated that the head injury alone would not have killed him. The incident was captured on the police station's closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras. \n\nA coroner's jury in 2000 returned a verdict that Alder was unlawfully killed. In 2002 five police officers went on trial charged with Alder's manslaughter and misconduct in public office, but were acquitted on the orders of the judge. In 2006 an Independent Police Complaints Commission report concluded that four of the officers present in the custody suite when Alder died were guilty of the \"most serious neglect of duty\". In November 2011 the government formally apologised to Alder's family in the European Court of Human Rights, admitting that it had breached its obligations with regard to \"preserving life and ensuring no one is subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment\". They also admitted that they had failed to carry out an effective and independent inquiry into the case.\n\nChristopher Ibikunle Alder (25 June 1960 – 1 April 1998) was a black British man of Nigerian descent, born in Hull in 1960. He joined the British Army at the age of 16 and served in the Parachute Regiment for six years. After leaving the Army, he first settled in Andover, Hampshire, before relocating to Dagger Lane, Hull in 1990. In 1998 he was taking a college course in computer skills in Hull. He had two sons, who had remained with their mother in the Andover area when their parents separated.\n\nAt around 7 pm on 31 March 1998, Alder went out for the evening in Hull with two friends, visiting several local bars and a fast food restaurant before Alder suggested going on to The Waterfront Club (later renamed The Sugar Mill), a nightclub on Prince's Dock Street in the Old Town area of the city. His companions, who later testified that at this stage of the evening Alder had drunk only two pints of lager and two bottles of Beck's beer and \"seemed sober\", declined the invitation. Alder went on alone to the club at around 10.30 pm. While there he drank a further two or three pints of lager. At approximately 1.30 am Alder became involved in a disagreement with another customer, Jason Ramm, which led to Ramm's being ejected from the club. Ramm waited in the vicinity of Prince's Dock Street until Alder left the club at 2.15 am and another confrontation occurred which was captured on the club's exterior CCTV. A third person, Jason Paul, attempted to break up the fight and was struck by Alder. Paul retaliated by punching Alder in the face, which caused him to fall backwards, strike his head on the pavement, and lose consciousness. Staff at the nightclub telephoned the emergency services and an ambulance took Alder - who had by this time regained consciousness - to the Hull Royal Infirmary. \n\nTwo police officers, PC Nigel Dawson and PC Neil Blakey, who had arrived shortly after the ambulance in a marked patrol car, made no attempt to speak to Alder. They consulted with the club's manager, who took them inside to review the club's CCTV footage of the incident. A message they sent to their control room at this time indicates that they had already assumed Alder was very drunk, despite not having spoken to him or having been told this by any of the witnesses they spoke with. A third police officer, Acting Police Sergeant (A/PS) Mark Ellerington, arrived at about 2.50 am, after the ambulance left, and went inside to speak with the club manager and the officers already present. He was told by Dawson and Blakey that Alder was drunk. The IPCC report later criticised the stance the police took, saying: \"This judgement, based upon very little evidence, tends to suggest that the two officers were making assumptions about Mr. Alder's behaviour, and choosing to attribute it to alcohol taken rather than the injury sustained, from an early stage in their dealings with him.\"\n\nThe ambulance arrived at the hospital at 2.44 am, where Alder was described by one witness who dealt with him as \"confused and dazed\" and \"generally abusive.\" One of the paramedics from the ambulance crew who had transported him there stated that Alder asked: \"Where am I? What's happened?\" One of the nurses who treated him also stated that, in addition to being abusive and swearing at her, he was asking: \"Where am I, what am I doing?\" Two police officers who were present in the emergency department on an unrelated matter intervened at one point and asked him to cooperate with the nursing staff. They recalled later that he calmed down but remained \"confused.\" PC Dawson and PC Blakey arrived at the hospital at approximately 3.05 am. Alder again became uncooperative with staff at the hospital, and the police control room were informed by the officers at 3.19 am: \"Our complainant is being a wee bit troublesome. Probably the reason why he got smacked in the first place.\" The doctor who examined Alder listed his injuries as:\nMedical staff tried to take an x-ray of Alder's head injury but he would not remain still and they abandoned the effort. PC Dawson wrote in his note book at this time that Alder was \"heavily in drink\" and \"typical of people I've seen in the past on amphetamine.\" Staff eventually decided that they could not administer further treatment to Alder without his cooperation, and the police officers asked if he was well enough to be detained in police custody. The attending doctor agreed that he was. A subsequent (2005) Healthcare Commission report into the medical treatment Alder received described this decision as \"flawed...[T]he doctor had yet to make a diagnosis. He was unable to carry out his plan of treatment for Christopher Alder, for example to admit him for observation, x-ray his skull and refer him to a maxillo-facial surgeon. Despite this he decided to discharge him without seeking advice from a senior colleague.\" This may also have contributed to the police officers' assumption that Alder's condition was not serious. Alder was forcibly removed from the hospital by PCs Dawson and Blakey, with medical staff stating that he was dragged out by his arms, backwards and with his legs trailing on the floor. The police officers, however, stated that Alder had walked out unaided although they had kept a gentle grip on him to prevent him falling and to \"guide\" him. \n\nOnce outside the hospital, Alder argued with the police officers, who had initially told him to go home, and he was arrested to prevent a breach of the peace. A/PS Ellerington drove to the hospital to collect Alder for transport to the police station and detention. The vehicle used was a Mercedes-Benz Sprinter with a caged section in the rear. Although handcuffed, a witness would subsequently state that he recalled Alder climbed into the back of the van unassisted.\n\nOn arrival at the police station following a journey of approximately six minutes, the van doors were opened and the police described Alder being found \"asleep\" and \"snoring.\" He was dragged from the van and into the custody suite at 3.46 am by PCs Dawson and Blakey, \"unresponsive\" and with his hands handcuffed behind his back, his legs and feet dragging along the floor and his face just above the ground. His trousers and underpants had been pulled down to his knees, possibly by dragging on the floor surface, and one of his shoes had come off. He had lost control of both bladder and bowels. A/PS Ellerington followed them in. Two police officers, Police Sergeant (PS) John Dunn and PC Matthew Barr, were already present on duty in the custody suite. Dunn was the custody officer and Barr was the cell warder. \n\nDawson and Blakey left Alder lying face down on the floor, where the CCTV showed a pool of blood forming around his mouth. One of the officers commented on the blood, but no attempt was made to examine Alder. PS Dunn was heard on the CCTV footage saying that Alder should be taken to the hospital, to which Dawson and Blakey reply that they had just come from there and that they believe Alder is feigning unconsciousness. Dawson said: \"This is acting now\" and \"This is just an acting thing,\" while Blakey said: \"He's right as rain... This is a show, this\" and \"He kept doing dying swan acts falling off the [hospital] trolley.\" A/PS Ellerington also stated later that he believed Alder was \"feigning deep sleep.\" PS Dunn stated that he: \"formed the opinion, from what I was told, that the man's behaviour at the present time may be play-acting or attention seeking.\" \n\nAfter a few minutes the handcuffs were removed; Alder's arms remained unmoving behind his back, and no attempt was made to examine or rouse him. The officers moved to the opposite side of the counter while a discussion took place about what offences he should be charged with and whether there was any possible justification for holding him, as any potential for breach of peace had clearly passed. Alder could be heard making \"gurgling\" noises as he breathed in and out through the pool of blood around his face. PS Dunn later explained that although he was aware of the gurgling he ignored it, believing Alder was deliberately blowing through the blood to \"try and upset\" the officers. PC Barr stated later that he had believed the noises \"were intended for our attention, in other words he was putting it on, which fitted neatly into what we had been told by PC Dawson.\"\n\nThe audio track of the CCTV footage appears to show that the officers made monkey noises, a common form of racist abuse against black people. At 3.57 am PC Barr pointed out that Alder was not making any noise and PS Dunn walked around the counter to check him. The officers began resuscitation attempts and called for an ambulance at 3.59 am. It arrived at 4.04 am, operated by the same crew which had earlier transported Alder from The Waterfront Club to the Hull Royal Infirmary. \n\nAlthough the crew had been informed that the casualty had \"breathing difficulty,\" the only equipment that they took into the custody suite was a bag valve mask. The paramedic admitted later that when they had received the call out, he had told his colleague \"that it would probably be someone trying to pull a sickie [\"ie feigning illness\"] to get out of appearing in court in the morning.\" He had to return to the ambulance outside to collect the necessary equipment, not returning until another minute had elapsed. The ambulance technician who first examined Alder reported him as having fixed, dilated pupils, no pulse and not breathing. They eventually ceased CPR at 4.35 am.\n\nAlder's clothes were subsequently destroyed by a West Yorkshire Police team investigating the death and never subjected to forensic examination.\n\nAt an inquest held in 2000, the jury returned a verdict of unlawful killing. The five police officers who were present in the custody suite at the time were called to give evidence at the inquest, but on more than 150 occasions during the hearing refused to answer questions, citing Coroners Rules that the response could provide self-incriminating evidence. They were subsequently charged with misconduct in public office. Shortly after the verdict was returned the officers, backed by the Police Federation, sought to overturn it by means of a judicial review. They claimed that the coroner should not have given a verdict of unlawful killing as an option to the jury, as the breaches of duty alleged against them could not amount to gross negligence. They also alleged that a female juror had been \"infatuated\" with the prosecuting barrister and that there was a \"real possibility that her infatuation converted into bias.\" The application for the judicial review was dismissed by the High Court of Justice in April 2001.\n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service initially decided that there was insufficient evidence to pursue criminal charges against the officers but, following a review of the medical evidence, the officers were charged in March 2002 with Alder's manslaughter. In June 2002, the trial collapsed when the judge ordered the jury to find the officers not guilty on all charges. Following the acquittal, an internal police disciplinary inquiry cleared the officers of any wrongdoing.\n\nIn July 2003 the Attorney General Lord Goldsmith challenged the legal correctness of the officers' acquittals and sent the ruling to the Court of Appeal \"to clarify the threshold for evidence in future death-in-custody cases,\" although this would not affect the acquittal because of the principle of \"double jeopardy,\" which applied at that time. In April 2004, BBC television series \"Rough Justice\" broadcast \"Death On Camera\", a programme examining the circumstances of Alder's death, including the CCTV footage from the custody suite which had previously not been seen by the public. As a result of the programme and the public concern it raised, Home Secretary David Blunkett asked the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) to review the case. In December 2004 four of the five police officers were granted early retirement on stress-related medical grounds and received lump-sum compensation payments of between £44,000 and £66,000 as well as pensions. The officers all declined requests to take part in the IPCC inquiry. In March 2006 the IPCC chairman, Nick Hardwick, said the officers present when Alder died were guilty of the \"most serious neglect of duty\" amounting to \"unwitting racism.\" \n\nIn September 2006 Leon Wilson, one of Alder's sons, went to the High Court to challenge the Home Office's refusal to reopen the case. The judge rejected his case, saying it was \"legally reasonable for the Secretary of State to believe that no more worthwhile evidence was likely to emerge.\"\n\nIn January 2006, a civil jury also found that a man had been unlawfully arrested and charged with Alder's assault on the night he died \"to divert attention away from the part the police themselves played in Mr Alder's death.\"\n\nIn November 2011 Alder's body was discovered in the mortuary at Hull Royal Infirmary, eleven years after his family believed they had buried him. An exhumation of his grave in Hull's Northern Cemetery during the night of 21 February 2012 found that Grace Kamara, a 77-year-old woman, had been buried in his place. South Yorkshire Police Detective Superintendent Richard Fewkes announced that a criminal investigation had begun to determine if an offence of misconduct in public office had been committed.\n\nAlder was one of 69 suspects who died in police custody in 1998. Between 1990 and 2011, 980 people died in police custody. Only one police officer has ever been convicted for such a death, although prosecutions were recommended against 13 officers based on \"relatively strong evidence of misconduct or neglect\". The successful prosecution related to the death of Craig Boyd in March 2004. Boyd hung himself with a shoelace in his cell at St Mary's Wharf police station, Derby. PC David Stoll, the custody suite warden, was watching the Disney film \"Finding Nemo\" with two other officers at the time; custody records were falsified to show visits by officers to the cells \"that were not substantiated by video evidence.\" Stoll was found guilty of misconduct in a public office and was sentenced to six months' imprisonment, suspended for one year.\n\nIn 1999 Judge Gerald Butler criticised the Crown Prosecution Service for failing to take action over a number of deaths in police custody. He made several recommendations to improve accountability and expressed \"unease\" over the current system. In a December 2010 report the IPCC suggested that juries were \"unwilling to convict police officers.\" The report, which covered deaths in custody in England and Wales between 1998 and 2010, concluded that in 16 cases restraint by officers was the direct cause of death, of which four were classed as \"positional asphyxia.\" The majority of deaths were ruled as occurring due to natural causes, many involving drug or alcohol abuse, and the authors called on the Home Office and Department of Health \"to pilot facilities with medical care to replace police cells.\" Deborah Coles, co-director of the charity and campaign group INQUEST said: \"The study points to alarming failures in the care of vulnerable detainees suffering from mental health, drug and alcohol problems, many of whom should have been diverted from police custody.\" \n\nAccording to the report \"fewer than half of detainees booked into custody who should have been risk assessed were actually assessed,\" while \"incidents where custody officers had not conducted proper checks, or thoroughly roused detainees to check their state, were prevalent.\" Custody officers and staff also lacked basic first aid training. Mike Franklin, the IPCC commissioner, said: \"What emerges most prominently from the report is the medical and mental health needs of a large number of people the police arrest,\" and questioned whether custody \"is the best place for a large number of the people the police deal with.\"\n\nOn 1 September 2011 the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007 was extended to include all deaths in police custody suites, prison cells, mental health detention facilities and Young Offenders Institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "20324939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20324939", "title": "Demon's Souls", "text": "Demon's Souls\n\nDemon's Souls is an action role-playing game developed by FromSoftware for the PlayStation 3. It was published in Japan by Sony Computer Entertainment in February 2009, in North America by Atlus USA in October 2009, and in Australia and Europe by Namco Bandai Games in June 2010. It was the first installment in the \"Souls\" series of games created by game director Hidetaka Miyazaki and was produced under supervision by Sony's Japan Studio.\n\nSet in a dark fantasy world, players take control of a hero who has journeyed to the fictional kingdom of Boletaria, which is being ravaged by a cursed fog that brings forth demons who feast on the souls of mortals. The game was described as a spiritual successor to the \"King's Field\" series of games, while at the same time being described as a separate entity from it. The gameplay involves a character-creation system and emphasizes gathering loot through combat with enemies in a non-linear series of varied locations, with a heavy emphasis on challenging combat. It has a unique online multiplayer system integrated into the single-player where players can leave useful messages and warnings for other players' single-player game worlds, as well as joining other players in their world to assist and/or kill them.\n\nUpon its release, \"Demon's Souls\" was met with acclaim from critics, winning numerous awards. The game was praised for its dark fantasy art design, variation in combat choice and integrated online interactions, and its high difficulty level, with many critics noting it as a genuine challenge. The game \"Dark Souls\", which itself spawned two sequels, is a spiritual successor to \"Demon's Souls\", and was also one of the primary inspirations for \"Bloodborne\".\n\nPlayers take control of the main character who, at the start of the game, can be customized by choice of gender, appearance, name and starting class. There are 10 starting classes, ranging from knights and barbarians to thieves and mages. Each class has its own starting statistics, gear, weapons and type of magic used which all emphasize certain approaches to combat depending on the player's preference.\n\nAs players kill demons, they gain souls which act as currency that can be used to buy, repair, and upgrade weapons as well as increase player statistics such as strength, luck, and endurance. Along with souls, players can retrieve items such as weaponry and ore for upgrading. When a player is killed during a level, they are sent to the beginning of the level with all non-boss enemies re-spawned, and the player returns in soul form with lower maximum health and the loss of all unused souls. If the player manages to reach their bloodstain at the point where they were last killed, they regain their lost souls. However, if they are killed before then, the souls are lost permanently. Upon defeating a boss, the player can choose to re-spawn back to that location, marked in the form of an Archstone. When not exploring a level, players reside in the Nexus, a realm of souls that acts as a hub where players can exchange souls, store items and travel between regions. After completing the initial portion of the first region, players can choose to progress through any other of the newly available regions.\n\nGameplay can change depending on both the World and Character tendency, which can be either white or black. Tendency depends on the actions of the player such as helping or killing NPCs. When white, enemies are easier, yet the soul and items rewards are fewer; when black, enemies are stronger and give greater rewards. Players can manipulate their tendency to suit their current needs. Character tendency affects the player throughout, while World Tendency only affects the region where an action was taken.\n\nFurther emphasizing the challenging nature of the game is the increased difficulty upon completion of the story. After finishing the game, the player may choose to continue playing from the beginning, except with a 40% increase in difficulty. Subsequent completions increase the difficulty further by 8%.\n\nWhen connected to the PlayStation Network, online play is integrated into the single-player experience. Throughout levels, players can briefly see the actions of other players as ghosts in the same area that may show hidden passages or switches. When a player dies, a bloodstain can be left in other players' game world that when activated can show a ghost playing out their final moments, indicating how that person died and potentially helping the player avoid the same fate in advance. Players can leave messages on the floor that can also help others such as forewarning safe or hostile positions, trap locations and tactics against enemies or bosses, among general comments.\n\nCo-operative play allows up to three characters to team up in the host's game world where visiting players appear in soul form that can only be returned to their bodies when a boss is defeated. In competitive play, players can invade a player's adventure as a Black Phantom to engage in combat with the host player. If the Black Phantom kills the host, they can be returned to their body in their own game, whereas if killed themselves, the host gains a portion of the Black Phantom's souls as well as the phantom losing a player level.\n\nThe North American servers were originally scheduled to be shut off on October 11, 2011, however Atlus decided a month before to keep the servers running until May 2012. However, a few days prior to the servers shutting down in May, Atlus made another announcement stating that the servers would stay up for the foreseeable future, provided user activity and interest remain constant. In November 2017, it was announced that the matchmaking servers would be shut down worldwide on 28 February 2018.\n\nThe game is set in a kingdom called Boletaria, ruled by the aging King Allant XII. Because of his greed, the king began to channel the power of souls, bringing unprecedented prosperity to Boletaria, until the \"Deep Fog\" covered the land's outskirts, cutting off the kingdom from the outside world. Neighboring kingdoms sent scouts to investigate but none returned after entering the fog. It was only after Vallarfax of the royal Twin Fangs broke free from the fog that the rest of the world could be told of Boletaria's plight. By channeling souls, King Allant had awakened the Old One, a great demon residing below the Nexus. This created the fog, and unleashed more demons within it that feasted on the souls of mankind, while those left alive without a soul became insane and violent. Without resistance, the fog slowly begins to spread beyond Boletaria.\n\nMany brave warriors attempted to breach the fog and save Boletaria, while others were tempted by the prospect of harnessing the demon's souls; either way, many were lost to the fog. The player takes control of one such warrior who breaches the fog and enters the lost kingdom; however, after entering the palace botanical gardens, the protagonist is confronted by a vile demon, The Vanguard. If the protagonist manages to defeat the Vanguard, they are killed by the Dragon God, another massive demon with a draconic form. After dying, the protagonist, now in soul form, appears in the Nexus. In the Nexus, they are greeted by the Maiden in Black, a mysterious and blinded matron of the Nexus who gives them the quest to travel to each region of Boletaria and retrieve the demon's souls to gain power and eventually free the corrupt kingdom of Boletaria from the Old One.\n\nOne by one the protagonist slays the mighty demons, some of whom are the corrupt forms of Boletaria's heroic Round Table knights, that reside in many of Boletaria's notable locations; the Boletarian Palace, Stonefang Tunnel, Tower of Latria, Shrine of Storms, and Valley of Defilement. It is also in these places where they encounter the few remaining great men and women of Boletaria. Once the protagonist claims all the demon's souls and has killed the Arch Demons of each area, the Maiden in Black leads them down below the Nexus to the Old One itself. The Maiden in Black beckons the Old One, who invites the protagonist inside where the now-deformed King Allant XII remains. During the final battle Allant claims that because of humanity's own violence and suffering, the Old One is acting mercifully by putting \"an end to our tragic realm of existence.\" Upon Allant's defeat, his last words are a warning to the protagonist: \"You fool. Don't you understand? No one wishes to go on.\"\nDuring the end of the game the protagonist makes one last choice either to slay or to walk away from the Maiden in Black. If the protagonist walks away, they have not succumbed to the temptation of the souls. The fog is lifted and the Maiden departs with the Old One back into the fog into its slumber once again, saving Boletaria and the rest of the world, although the souls consumed remain lost for eternity. If, however, the Maiden in Black is killed, they have become lustful for the power of souls, condemning the world with the protagonist as its ruler at the side of the Old One.\n\nAccording to game director Hidetaka Miyazaki, before the start of the two-year development period, the studio had previously ruled out the following game to be a new installment in the \"King's Field\" series. Instead, Sony Computer Entertainment Japan producer Takeshi Kajii described the game as a \"spiritual successor\" to FromSoftware's earlier series, \"King's Field\", where he stated \"I am a fan of From Software, but naturally that also means there are parts of their games I'm not satisfied with, too,\" explaining the development choice as an opportunity to be more creative and potentially innovative, stating \"If this was a new \"King's Field\" game, there would be areas we wouldn't be able to touch since they're part of the series; working together like this, we can try to make something really new.\" He added, \"\"King's Field\" was the game that sparked the idea for the \"Demon's Souls\" project, but we didn’t base it completely off of that game.\"\n\nPrior to Miyazaki stepping in, the project was internally considered a failure, with the team being unable to create a compelling prototype. Miyazaki, who up until then had only worked on the \"Armored Core\" series, eventually took full control of the project. He \"changed pretty much everything about\" the project, making it a separate entity from \"King's Field\", with a different perspective and \"guided by differing core game design concepts.\" He does not consider it a \"successor\" to \"King's Field\", stating that, while \"\"King's Field\" was the beginning of the \"Demon's Souls\" project, I wouldn't go as far as to say that we had \"King's Field\" in mind while we were making \"Demon's Souls\"\".\n\nMiyazaki drew inspiration from video games such as \"Ico\", and \"The Legend of Zelda\", as well as manga such as \"Berserk\", \"Saint Seiya\" and \"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure\". Kajii also mentioned fantasy-themed gamebooks such as \"Fighting Fantasy\" and \"Titan\" as inspiration for many location and character designs. The style of characters such as the \"Adjudicator\" boss took some influences from pagan folklore, yet rather than exactly deriving from other designs, the process involved \"mixing a couple of images of primitive gods together\" to create a \"raw concept\" with \"an unusual and chaotic feel.\"\n\nMiyazaki commented on the game's considerable difficulty as \"never the goal\", but rather a focus on creating a real sense of accomplishment. Difficulty was described as \"one way to offer an intense sense of accomplishment through forming strategies, overcoming obstacles, and discovering new things.\" Game locations were described as \"places of evil intent\", such as the Tower of Latria embodying man-made evil, and the Valley of Defilement embodying natural evil, with the difficulty heightening the player's sense of dread. The threat of death that sees players potentially losing all their hard-earned souls was also created to emphasize this mood, that \"if the Souls could be recovered anytime, there would be no suspense or sense of accomplishment.\" Boss battles were primarily designed to be \"varied and exciting\" to make sure \"players didn’t get tired of the same fight\" and like the rest of the game \"encourage them to figure out different tactics, to think on their feet.\" Takeshi Kajii felt that the boss battles were not the hardest element; \"You say boss, but it’s not just the boss. It’s everything including the road up to the boss that makes this game really hard. If you find patterns to destroy the boss, it’s not that hard. It’s how you get to the boss that makes this a difficult game.\" Miyazaki said that the game's difficulty was inspired by the trial and error difficulty of retro video games.\n\nWhen developing the integrated online feature, Miyazaki felt many new games had what he considered \"too much communication in online games which can become a burden for some people,\" instead integrating the online experience subtly, with certain online elements like the ghostly figures of other human players adding to the dark mood of the game. When implementing the system of allowing players to leave useful messages, instead of allowing players to write a message, a list of pre-written messages was chosen; not only to make the process quick and easy to use since players cannot pause gameplay, but also was to prevent the system from becoming \"a large chat, which detracts from the feel of the world.\"\n\nThe game's asynchronous multiplayer system was inspired by a personal experience by Miyazaki, where a car in front of him had stopped on an icy hillside and began to slide downward. The car following Miyazaki also began to slide, with the one behind it helping to push the cars up the hill, which then Miyazaki and others also successfully did. Unable to give his appreciation to the drivers before leaving the area, he wondered whether the last person in the line had made it to their destination, thinking that he would probably never meet the people again. Miyazaki called the experience a \"connection of mutual assistance between transient people\", which then heavily inspired the game's use of cooperation between players who do not directly communicate. The concepts of an in-game messaging system, shared play experience, and mutual role-playing were inspired by text messaging and retro gaming, particularly the early \"Dragon Quest\" games. Wanting to remove the ease of communication, Miyazaki explained that everyone was forced to work together when gaming up in the 1980s to help each other due to the lack of easily accessible information at the time, a process he was a fan of.\n\nThe game's approach to storytelling was inspired by Miyazaki's experiences of attempting to understand English books he could not read. Because he could not read English, he created his own stories by interpreting what was in the pictures. This inspired him to make a game where players don't understand what's going on, and must interpret things as they play.\n\n\"Demon's Souls\" was announced in late 2008 and was only dated for a release in Japan, which would later cover localized versions for other parts of east Asia, including Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea. The first release in Japan and Asia on February 5, 2009 was by Sony Computer Entertainment, who did not have any plans to release the game elsewhere. Following the game's Asian release and positive reception, in May Atlus announced plans to publish \"Demon's Souls\" in North America, promoting the game at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2009 (E3) before eventually being released in North America on October 7 that year. The North American version runs on separate online servers, with players of that version not being able to interact with people playing on other regional versions. The same applies to saved games and trophy sets; saves from Asian versions will not work with the North American version, and a separate trophy list is installed from the Asian releases, despite the trophy content being identical.\n\nRegarding a possible European release, Eurogamer contacted Atlus USA over the matter where their spokesperson Aram Jabbari gave the statement \"I'm not aware of any plans/publishers for bringing the game to Europe at this time. Hopefully the game continues to generate word of mouth and positive critical reception and a European publisher takes notice.\" Additionally, other publishers known for releasing From Software and Atlus games in Europe like Tecmo Koei and Ubisoft said they had no plans to release \"Demon's Souls\". On April 16, Namco Bandai Games announced plans to release \"Demon's Souls\" in Europe, with the limited edition released on June 25, 2010. The same publisher released a second standard edition in Europe on August 6, 2010.\n\nIn September 2010, Atlus announced that \"Demon's Souls\" would be released in North America under the Sony Greatest Hits label with a price cut following strong sales, higher than previously expected by the publisher.\n\nA trilogy of spiritual successors developed by FromSoftware, \"Dark Souls\", were released throughout the 2010s.\n\nUpon its release in North America, \"Demon's Souls\" was also released with a Deluxe Edition in a slipcase, along with a 150-page guide book. Prior to the game's release, at the time pre-orders from GameStop for either the standard or Deluxe version included an official soundtrack disc and art book. Some copies of the strategy guide however were reported to have \"unusual cover ink wear/fading\". Having realized this mistake, Atlus responded by launching a temporary replacement program for defect copies on their official website, along with an apology.\n\nSimilarly, a special edition was released in Europe called \"Demon's Souls: Black Phantom Edition\". Like the North American Deluxe Edition, it contains an art book, soundtrack CD and strategy guide. The strategy guide part of the Black Edition was put together by Namco Bandai Games for no additional production costs with the help of the editors of the fan supported Demon's Souls Wiki hosted by Wikidot, which supported information on each aspect of the game.\n\nTwo full sets of armor from the characters Garl Vinland and Biorr of the Twin Fangs were released exclusively in Japan, for use in the PlayStation Home application. The game's original score was composed and arranged by Shunsuke Kida. The soundtrack was initially only released as a pre-order bonus in North America, before being included as part of the European release.\n\nUpon its release in Japan, \"Demon's Souls\" was generally well received by critics. \"Dengeki\" scored the game 95/85/85/85, adding up to 350 out of 400, saying that \"fans of old-school games will shed tears of joy.\" \"Famitsu\" gave it 29 out of 40 (9/7/7/6), with an editor Paint Yamamoto scoring it a 9 and calling it \"a game you learn how to play by losing – you'll face sudden death frequently. But! Keep playing... and you'll realize how deep it really is.\" However, another editor, Maria Kichiji, gave it a 6 and found the game to be \"far too stoic... it's not a game for everybody.\"\n\nUpon release in North America, the game received critical acclaim with an average critic score of at Metacritic. Despite the game's high difficulty, many reviewers found it to be a positive aspect, making the game more rewarding to play. GameSpot called the high difficulty \"fair\", saying players will \"undoubtedly take a lot of damage until you learn the subtleties of fighting each enemy, but combat feels just right.\" IGN echoed this view, encouraging players who \"can remember the good ol' days when games taught through the highly effective use of negative reinforcement and a heavy price for not playing it carefully should scoop this up instantly.\" \"Game Informer\" called it \"one of the first truly great Japanese RPGs of this generation, and certainly the most remarkable.\" \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\" however, while commending the game overall, said \"Demon's Souls\" was \"best left to the most masochistic, hardcore gamer.\"\n\nGameZone commented on the online aspect as being \"innovative\" and \"perfectly blended into the game\", while Game Revolution felt it \"turns a solitary experience into a surprisingly communal one.\" On the technical and design side GamesRadar called it \"graphically stunning, too, looking more like the old Ultima games than anything that’s ever come out of Japan,\" while GameTrailers said the game \"nails the dark fantasy look\" along with what they considered \"music from actual instruments\". although they mentioned certain issues with the physics engine being \"jittery\". Shortly after its North American release, ScrewAttack named \"Demon's Souls\" as the eighth best PS3 exclusive to date.\n\nPrior to the game's release in Europe, European critics reviewed import copies. Eurogamer called \"Demon's Souls\" \"stoic, uncompromising, difficult to get to know, but also deep, intriguingly disturbed and perversely rewarding\" while \"Edge\" explained their positive view on the difficulty by stating \"if gaming’s ultimate appeal lies in the learning and mastering of new skills, then surely the medium’s keenest thrills are to be found in its hardest lessons\" concluding \"for those who flourish under Demon’s Souls’ strict examination, there’s no greater sense of virtual achievement.\"\n\n\"Demon's Souls\" favorable review scores made the fiscal performance of the game unique because of the lack of a supporting marketing campaign. Gaming analyst Jesse Divnich commented \"\"Demon's Souls\" is probably one of the most statistically relevant games released in the gaming world as it helps answer an often asked question: how much would a high quality game sell if it was supported by no mass marketing, released by a little known publisher, and was a new intellectual property.\" With the critical and commercial success of the game, Sony Computer Entertainment VP of international software Yeonkyung Kim later admitted that it was a \"mistake\" to pass on the game, instead allowing Atlus to publish it, initially due to concerns over its difficulty and unusual design decisions.\n\n\"Demon's Souls\" sold 39,966 copies in its first week in Japan, and boosted PlayStation 3 sales in the region. It has sold 134,585 copies in Japan as of December 2009. In North America, \"Demon's Souls\" debuted at the eleventh place of the October 2009 charts according to NPD Group, with over 150,000 copies sold, selling over 500,000 by September 2010.\n\nAs of March 16, 2015, \"Demon's Souls\" has sold over 1.7 million copies.\n\nIn their 2009 Best and Worst Awards, GameSpot awarded \"Demon's Souls\" with Overall Game of the Year, Best PS3 game, Best Role-Playing game and Best Original Game Mechanic for the online integration. GameTrailers awarded it Best RPG and Best New intellectual property. IGN also awarded the game Best RPG for the PS3. X-Play awarded the multiplayer Best Gameplay Innovation. PC World awarded it Game of the Year. RPGamer awarded \"Demon's Souls\" RPG of the Year 2009, including Best Graphics and Best PS3 RPG.\n\nIn 2011, IGN ranked \"Demon's Souls\" 100th in their \"top 100 modern games\".\n"}
{"id": "3771851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3771851", "title": "Edwin W. Rawlings", "text": "Edwin W. Rawlings\n\nGeneral Edwin William Rawlings, USAF (Ret), (September 11, 1904 – December 8, 1997) was a leading figure in the administrative development of the United States Air Force (USAF).\n\nA Milroy, Minnesota native, Rawlings graduated with an economics degree from Hamline University in Saint Paul, Minnesota. He became a flying cadet in February 1929. Almost 25 years to the day later, he became one of the USAF's youngest generals, confirmed for a fourth star at 49. He had also by then earned an MBA from Harvard University.\n\nIn November 1946, Symington named Rawlings as air comptroller, helping to organize the office. The position was so successful and struck such a note, the United States adopted the idea of a comptroller for all three services.\n\nIn 1951, Rawlings became commander of Air Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, leading USAF's procurement and logistics efforts for seven years. Air Force Chief of Staff Thomas D. White credited him with spectacular increases in the effectiveness of the Air Force logistics, accomplished through new management methods, concepts, and philosophy, and thus the Air Force has been able to match the tempo of the jet, missile, and space era.\n\nRawlings was a command pilot and combat and aircraft observer, whose decorations included the Distinguished Service Medal and Distinguished Flying Cross, which he received in 1930 for his role in the rescue of an aircrew downed in the Pacific. He also received the Soldier's Medal in 1954 for rescuing his pilot who was lying underneath a B-17 Flying Fortress that caught fire after landing at Wright-Patterson.\n\nAfter retiring from USAF in 1959, he went on to a career with General Mills, rising to become president and board chairman. During his second career, General Rawlings introduced corporate social responsibility and adapted the Delphi method for corporate strategic planning.\n\nIn 1997, Rawlings died in Auburn, Washington at age 93.\n\nIn 1981 the Air Force Association (AFA) and AEF in 1981 established the Gen.. Edwin W. Rawlings Award initially to recognize energy conservation achievements within USAF. Now the award recognizes and outstanding technician or manager in environmental matters.\n\nThe AFA's Gen. E. W. Rawlings Chapter was chartered in Saint Paul in August 1982.\n\nEugene M. Zuckert, Secretary of the Air Force from 1961 to 1965, credits Rawlings with building a \"mature, business-like\" image for the newly established Air Force. Zuckert said Air Force Secretary Stuart Symington asked him in 1945 why he had to \"send out a search party\" whenever he needed Army Air Forces statistics, Zuckert remembered a Rawlings memo suggesting the creation of a comptroller position and passed the idea on to Symington. According to Zuckert, the methods developed by Rawlings constituted \"a very important step in the development of a postwar Air Force.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3889704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3889704", "title": "Emerging technologies", "text": "Emerging technologies\n\nEmerging technologies are technologies that are perceived as capable of changing the status quo. These technologies are generally new but include older technologies that are still controversial and relatively undeveloped in potential, such as preimplantation genetic diagnosis and gene therapy which date to 1989 and 1990 respectively.\n\nEmerging technologies are characterized by radical novelty, relatively fast growth, coherence, prominent impact, and uncertainty and ambiguity. In other words, an emerging technology can be defined as \"a radically novel and relatively fast growing technology characterised by a certain degree of coherence persisting over time and with the potential to exert a considerable impact on the socio-economic domain(s) which is observed in terms of the composition of actors, institutions and patterns of interactions among those, along with the associated knowledge production processes. Its most prominent impact, however, lies in the future and so in the emergence phase is still somewhat uncertain and ambiguous.\".\n\nEmerging technologies include a variety of technologies such as educational technology, information technology, nanotechnology, biotechnology, cognitive science, psychotechnology, robotics, and artificial intelligence.\n\nNew technological fields may result from the technological convergence of different systems evolving towards similar goals. Convergence brings previously separate technologies such as voice (and telephony features), data (and productivity applications) and video together so that they share resources and interact with each other, creating new efficiencies.\n\nEmerging technologies are those technical innovations which represent progressive developments within a field for competitive advantage; converging technologies represent previously distinct fields which are in some way moving towards stronger inter-connection and similar goals. However, the opinion on the degree of the impact, status and economic viability of several emerging and converging technologies.\n\nIn the history of technology, emerging technologies are contemporary advances and innovation in various fields of technology.\n\nOver centuries innovative methods and new technologies are developed and opened up. Some of these technologies are due to theoretical research, and others from commercial research and development.\n\nTechnological growth includes incremental developments and disruptive technologies. An example of the former was the gradual roll-out of DVD (digital video disc) as a development intended to follow on from the previous optical technology compact disc. By contrast, disruptive technologies are those where a new method replaces the previous technology and makes it redundant, for example, the replacement of horse-drawn carriages by automobiles and other vehicles.\n\nMany writers, including computer scientist Bill Joy, have identified clusters of technologies that they consider critical to humanity's future. Joy warns that the technology could be used by elites for good or evil. They could use it as \"good shepherds\" for the rest of humanity, or decide everyone else is superfluous and push for mass extinction of those made unnecessary by technology.\n\nAdvocates of the benefits of technological change typically see emerging and converging technologies as offering hope for the betterment of the human condition. Cyberphilosophers Alexander Bard and Jan Söderqvist argue in \"The Futurica Trilogy\" that while Man himself is basically constant throughout human history (genes change very slowly), all relevant change is rather a direct or indirect result of technological innovation (memes change very fast) since new ideas always emanate from technology use and not the other way around. Man should consequently be regarded as history's main constant and technology as its main variable. However, critics of the risks of technological change, and even some advocates such as transhumanist philosopher Nick Bostrom, warn that some of these technologies could pose dangers, perhaps even contribute to the extinction of humanity itself; i.e., some of them could involve existential risks.\n\nMuch ethical debate centers on issues of distributive justice in allocating access to beneficial forms of technology. Some thinkers, such as environmental ethicist Bill McKibben, oppose the continuing development of advanced technology partly out of fear that its benefits will be distributed unequally in ways that could worsen the plight of the poor. By contrast, inventor Ray Kurzweil is among techno-utopians who believe that emerging and converging technologies could and will eliminate poverty and abolish suffering.\n\nSome analysts such as Martin Ford, author of \"The Lights in the Tunnel: Automation, Accelerating Technology and the Economy of the Future\", argue that as information technology advances, robots and other forms of automation will ultimately result in significant unemployment as machines and software begin to match and exceed the capability of workers to perform most routine jobs.\n\nAs robotics and artificial intelligence develop further, even many skilled jobs may be threatened. Technologies such as machine learning may ultimately allow computers to do many knowledge-based jobs that require significant education. This may result in substantial unemployment at all skill levels, stagnant or falling wages for most workers, and increased concentration of income and wealth as the owners of capital capture an ever-larger fraction of the economy. This in turn could lead to depressed consumer spending and economic growth as the bulk of the population lacks sufficient discretionary income to purchase the products and services produced by the economy.\n\n\"Artificial intelligence\" (\"AI\") is the sub intelligence exhibited by machines or software, and the branch of computer science that develops machines and software with animal-like intelligence. Major AI researchers and textbooks define the field as \"the study and design of intelligent agents\", where an intelligent agent is a system that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chances of success. John McCarthy, who coined the term in 1942, defines it as \"the study of making intelligent machines\".\n\nThe central problems (or goals) of AI research include reasoning, knowledge, planning, learning, natural language processing (communication), perception and the ability to move and manipulate objects. General intelligence (or \"strong AI\") is still among the field's long-term goals. Currently popular approaches include deep learning, statistical methods, computational intelligence and traditional symbolic AI. There are an enormous number of tools used in AI, including versions of search and mathematical optimization, logic, methods based on probability and economics, and many others.\n\n3D printing, also known as additive manufacturing, has been posited by Jeremy Rifkin and others as part of the third industrial revolution.\n\nCombined with Internet technology, 3D printing would allow for digital blueprints of virtually any material product to be sent instantly to another person to be produced on the spot, making purchasing a product online almost instantaneous.\n\nAlthough this technology is still too crude to produce most products, it is rapidly developing and created a controversy in 2013 around the issue of 3D printed guns.\n\nGene therapy was first successfully demonstrated in late 1990/early 1991 for adenosine deaminase deficiency, though the treatment was somatic – that is, did not affect the patient's germ line and thus was not heritable. This led the way to treatments for other genetic diseases and increased interest in germ line gene therapy – therapy affecting the gametes and descendants of patients.\n\nBetween September 1990 and January 2014 there were around 2,000 gene therapy trials conducted or approved.\n\nA \"cancer vaccine\" is a vaccine that treats existing cancer or prevents the development of cancer in certain high-risk individuals. Vaccines that treat existing cancer are known as \"therapeutic\" cancer vaccines. There are currently no vaccines able to prevent cancer in general.\n\nOn April 14, 2009, Dendreon Corporation announced that their Phase III clinical trial of Provenge, a cancer vaccine designed to treat prostate cancer, had demonstrated an increase in survival. It received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for use in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer patients on April 29, 2010. The approval of Provenge has stimulated interest in this type of therapy.\n\n\"In vitro meat\", also called \"cultured meat\", \"clean meat\", \"cruelty-free meat\", \"shmeat\", and \"test-tube meat\", is an animal-flesh product that has never been part of a living animal with exception of the fetal calf serum taken from a slaughtered cow. In the 21st century, several research projects have worked on \"in vitro\" meat in the laboratory. The first in vitro beefburger, created by a Dutch team, was eaten at a demonstration for the press in London in August 2013. There remain difficulties to be overcome before \"in vitro\" meat becomes commercially available. Cultured meat is prohibitively expensive, but it is expected that the cost could be reduced to compete with that of conventionally obtained meat as technology improves. \"In vitro\" meat is also an ethical issue. Some argue that it is less objectionable than traditionally obtained meat because it doesn't involve killing and reduces the risk of animal cruelty, while others disagree with eating meat that has not developed naturally.\n\n\"Nanotechnology\" (sometimes shortened to \"nanotech\") is the manipulation of matter on an atomic, molecular, and supramolecular scale. The earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology. A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers. This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale, and so the definition shifted from a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold.\n\n\"Robotics\" is the branch of technology that deals with the design, construction, operation, and application of robots, as well as computer systems for their control, sensory feedback, and information processing. These technologies deal with automated machines that can take the place of humans in dangerous environments or manufacturing processes, or resemble humans in appearance, behavior, and/or cognition. A good example of robots which resembles humans is Sophia, a social humanoid robot developed by Hong Kong-based company Hanson Robotics which was activated on April 19, 2015. Many of today's robots are inspired by nature contributing to the field of bio-inspired robotics.\n\n\"Stem cell therapy\" is an intervention strategy that introduces new adult stem cells into damaged tissue in order to treat disease or injury. Many medical researchers believe that stem cell treatments have the potential to change the face of human disease and alleviate suffering. The ability of stem cells to self-renew and give rise to subsequent generations with variable degrees of differentiation capacities, offers significant potential for generation of tissues that can potentially replace diseased and damaged areas in the body, with minimal risk of rejection and side effects.\n\n\"Distributed ledger\" or \"blockchain technology\" is a technology which provides transparent and immutable lists of transactions. Blockchains can enable autonomous transactions through the use of smart contracts. Smart contracts are self-executing transactions which occur when pre-defined conditions are met. The original idea of a smart contract was conceived by Nick Szabo in 1994 but these original theories about how these smart contracts could work remained unrealised because there was no technology to support programmable agreements and transactions between parties. His example of a smart contract was the vending machine that holds goods until money has been received and then the goods are released to the buyer. The machine holds the property and is able to enforce the contract. There were two main issues that needed to be addressed before smart contracts could be used in the real world. Firstly, the control of physical assets by smart contracts to be able to enforce agreements. Secondly, the last of trustworthy computers that are reliable and trusted to execute the contract between two or more parties. It is only with the advent of cryptocurrency and encryption that the technology for smart contracts has come to fruition. Many potential applications of smart contracts have been suggested that go beyond the transfer of value from one party to another, such as supply chain management, electronic voting, law and the internet of things.\n\nAs innovation drives economic growth, and large economic rewards come from new inventions, a great deal of resources (funding and effort) go into the development of emerging technologies. Some of the sources of these resources are described below...\n\nResearch and development is directed towards the advancement of technology in general, and therefore includes development of emerging technologies. \"See also List of countries by research and development spending.\"\n\nApplied research is a form of systematic inquiry involving the practical application of science. It accesses and uses some part of the research communities' (the academia's) accumulated theories, knowledge, methods, and techniques, for a specific, often state-, business-, or client-driven purpose.\n\nScience policy is the area of public policy which is concerned with the policies that affect the conduct of the science and research enterprise, including the funding of science, often in pursuance of other national policy goals such as technological innovation to promote commercial product development, weapons development, health care and environmental monitoring.\n\nThe Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is an agency of the U.S. Department of Defense responsible for the development of emerging technologies for use by the military.\n\nDARPA was created in 1958 as the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Its purpose was to formulate and execute research and development projects to expand the frontiers of technology and science, with the aim to reach beyond immediate military requirements.\n\nProjects funded by DARPA have provided significant technologies that influenced many non-military fields, such as the Internet and Global Positioning System technology.\n\nThere are awards that provide incentive to push the limits of technology (generally synonymous with emerging technologies). Note that while some of these awards reward achievement after-the-fact via analysis of the merits of technological breakthroughs, others provide incentive via competitions for awards offered for goals yet to be achieved.\n\nThe Orteig Prize was a $25,000 award offered in 1919 by French hotelier Raymond Orteig for the first nonstop flight between New York City and Paris. In 1927, underdog Charles Lindbergh won the prize in a modified single-engine Ryan aircraft called the Spirit of St. Louis. In total, nine teams spent $400,000 in pursuit of the Orteig Prize.\n\nThe XPRIZE series of awards, public competitions designed and managed by the non-profit organization called the X Prize Foundation, are intended to encourage technological development that could benefit mankind. The most high-profile XPRIZE to date was the $10,000,000 Ansari XPRIZE relating to spacecraft development, which was awarded in 2004 for the development of SpaceShipOne.\n\nThe Turing Award is an annual prize given by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) to \"an individual selected for contributions of a technical nature made to the computing community\". It is stipulated that \"The contributions should be of lasting and major technical importance to the computer field\". The Turing Award is generally recognized as the highest distinction in computer science, and in 2014 grew to $1,000,000.\n\nThe Millennium Technology Prize is awarded once every two years by Technology Academy Finland, an independent fund established by Finnish industry and the Finnish state in partnership. The first recipient was Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web.\n\nIn 2003, David Gobel seed-funded the Methuselah Mouse Prize (Mprize) to encourage the development of new life extension therapies in mice, which are genetically similar to humans. So far, three Mouse Prizes have been awarded: one for breaking longevity records to Dr. Andrzej Bartke of Southern Illinois University; one for late-onset rejuvenation strategies to Dr. Stephen Spindler of the University of California; and one to Dr. Z. Dave Sharp for his work with the pharmaceutical rapamycin.\n\nScience fiction has criticized developing and future technologies, but also inspires innovation and new technology. This topic has been more often discussed in literary and sociological than in scientific forums. Cinema and media theorist Vivian Sobchack examines the dialogue between science fiction films and technological imagination. Technology impacts artists and how they portray their fictionalized subjects, but the fictional world gives back to science by broadening imagination. \"How William Shatner Changed the World\" is a documentary that gave a number of real-world examples of actualized technological imaginations. While more prevalent in the early years of science fiction with writers like Arthur C. Clarke, new authors still find ways to make currently impossible technologies seem closer to being realized.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34255785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34255785", "title": "Emilio Covelli", "text": "Emilio Covelli\n\nEmilio Covelli (1846–1915) was an Italian anarchist and socialist who together with Carlo Cafiero was one of the most important figures in the early socialist movement in Italy, a member of the International Workingmen's Association, or \"First International\". He lived in exile in Paris for a while, returning to Italy for reasons of health, and dying in the psychiatric hospital in Nocera Inferiore.\n\nCovelli was born into an aristocratic family in Trani (Apulia). He received his secondary education at a seminary in Molfetta (where he was in the same class as Cafiero), but after studying law at Naples University and then in Heidelberg and Berlin (where he studied under Eugen Dühring), he moved towards socialism, leaving his bourgeois origins behind him.\n\nHis extensive knowledge of German socialist literature (Dühring, Marx, etc.) was fundamental in introducing the ideas of \"scientific socialism\" into his own country, particularly through his 1874 work \"L’economia politica e la scienza\", one of the earliest pieces of socialist theoretical writings in Italian. Later, in 1908, he published \"Economia e Socialismo\".\n\nHe joined the Naples branch of the International in 1875, becoming an important influence within it and also contributing to the newspaper, \"La Campana\". Together with Carlo Cafiero, Errico Malatesta and Andrea Costa, he was instrumental in moving the Italian anarchist movement away from the collectivism it professed in the days of Mikhail Bakunin in order to adopt the communist formula \"From each according to ability, to each according to need\". At the 1876 congress of the Italian Federation of the International in Florence-Tosi, it was these four who were responsible for the adoption of the anarchist communist programme.\n\nIn 1877, together with Malatesta, Cafiero and others, he participated in the unsuccessful Benevento uprising, following which he moved to Genoa, where he founded branches of the International. After a spell in prison he left the country, moving to London first, where he launched and edited a magazine, \"Redattori della Lotta!\", and then Geneva, where he founded the \"I Malfattori\" magazine, before returning once more to Italy.\n\nTogether with most of the anarchist movement, he was to turn to more radical methods of \"propaganda by the deed\" in the 1880s and was forced to live on the run for several years, suffering a mental breakdown in 1884. After his release from the Como psychiatric hospital, he moved abroad, living at various times in Switzerland, Greece and Turkey. The last 23 years of his life were spent in a series of mental institutions and he eventually died in the same hospital as Cafiero, in Nocera Inferiore.\n\nThe commemorative plaque on Palazzo Covelli, the family home, in Trani bears his words: \"I shall not sell myself either to any government or to any party... I have craved misery, persecution and slander. I have lost everything, there remains only what is me\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35217127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35217127", "title": "Enenche Akogwu", "text": "Enenche Akogwu\n\nEnenche Akogwu, (30 March 1980 – 20 January 2012), a Nigerian journalist and cameraman for Channels Television in Kano, was investigating Boko Haram terrorism when he was shot and killed by an unidentified gunman. His work mainly focused on human rights, politics, and war. He covered news stories across the northern region of Nigeria.\n\nEnenche Akogwu was the son of Agnes Akogwu, his widowed mother. She said after his father Jonah's death in 2010, Enenche assumed the responsibility for taking care of the family. His mother also claims that he loved being a reporter and as a kid, he would go out in the city to see what was happening and then return home to tell the family. His friend and colleague, Idris Jibrin, says that he used to go to Akogwu for advice on his own stories. Akogwu graduated from Benue State University in 2004.\n\nAt the time of his death, Enenche Akogwu was a reporter and camera operator for Channels Television, a privately owned station based in Lagos. His work mainly focused on human rights, politics, and war. He began working for Channels TV in 2010, as a correspondent in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria. He was later assigned to a position in Kano, Nigeria, where he worked until his passing. However, he did cover news stories all across the northern region of Nigeria.\n\nOn 20 January 2012, Enenche Akogwu was killed at the age of 31. Earlier that day, he was at his office in Kano with his best friend and colleague, Idris Jibrin, when they heard several bomb explosions and decided to investigate. Akogwu heard that some of the bombing was taking place at the Farm Centre Police Station so he went there and approached some by-standers to get a quote. Those by-standers turned out to be Islam Militants from the terrorist group Boko Haram, who immediately shot and killed Akogwu.\n\nWhen Jibrin heard about the gunfire at Farm Centre, he tried calling Akogwu's cellphone but got no answer. He headed toward the scene to see if Akogwu was alright. A by-stander told Jibrin that a journalist had been shot, so he went to the body and discovered that it was Akogwu. Akogwu had been shot six times. He was shot three times in the chest and three times in the stomach. Jibrin delivered the news to Channels Television that their journalist had been killed.\n\nAkogwu had previously spent some time in Lagos, Nigeria and returned to Kano only two days before he was shot by Boko Haram. According to Bashir Adigun, Channels TV regional news editor, Akogwu had been gone for a news conference that was put on by police to discuss recent suicide bombings on government buildings. These bombings that Akogwu discussed at the conference were claimed to be the work of Boko Haram, the very same group that is now responsible for his death.\n\nBoko Haram insurgency began in July 2009 with the 2009 Boko Haram uprising. Almost 1,000 people were killed in this fight between Boko Haram and Nigerian soldiers. Throughout 2010 and 2011, Boko Haram was responsible for several more attacks and bombings, which killed hundreds of people. Then, the group attacked Kano on 20 January 2012, killing over 170 people, including Enenche Akogwu. As of that day, this was its single most deadly attack. According to Reporters Without Borders, Akogwu was the second journalist to ever be killed by Boko Haram, the first of whom was Zakariya Isa, shot and killed in Maiduguri, Nigeria. The estimated number of deaths from the Kano attacks was discovered by reporters from the Associated Press who actually counted the bodies in the mortuary at the Murtala Muhammed Specialist Hospital. Correspondents from the private Leadership newspaper also found victims from the bombings in the mortuaries at the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital and the Sir Muhammadu Sanusi Hospital. After these findings, the estimated total number of deaths from the Kano attacks was raised to 215.\n\nThe first attack of the day was directed toward the Nigeria Police Headquarters on Bayero University (BUK) Road. By-standers say that a suicide bomber drove a Honda Civic into the police headquarters, killing himself and three police officers. This attack was soon followed by attacks on the Zaria Road Police Station and the Farm Centre Police Station, where Akogwu was killed. It was later discovered that the immigration office in Kano was also attacked, resulting in the death of more officers. Reportedly, twenty bombs went off in Kano on 20 January 2012. At first, authorities were unsure who caused the attacks, but Boko Haram took responsibility for them, saying that its motive was to get revenge for the recent arrests of its members.\n\nAccording to Vanguard News, Akogwu had previously spoken out against Boko Haram on his personal Facebook page. His rebuttal was in response to the group deciding that all northerners and Christians who lived in the northern states of Nigeria should move to different places. This applied to Akogwu because he was a Christian from Kano, which is a northern state.\n\nAfter Akogwu's death, his mother, Agnes Akogwu and best friend and colleague at Channels Television, Idris Jibrin, both told reporters that he was a dedicated journalist who loved his job. In an interview with Idoma Voice reporters, Agnes said that even her husband, who died two years before Akogwu, said their son would make a successful reporter. Proving them all right, Akogwu was awarded with Channels Television's 2011 chairman's award.\n\nIrina Bokova, the Director-General of UNESCO, responded to Akogwu's death and the Boko Haram attacks by saying that the \"crime constitutes a serious attack on the basic human right of freedom of expression and press freedom.\" She also called on \"the Nigerian authorities to investigate these killings.\" \n\nThe morning after the attacks, Red Cross officials evacuated the city of Kano and carried injured victims to safety. All hospitals in Kano were under orders from the state government to treat victims with the best care possible and to provide them with free treatment.\n\nA coworker of Akogwu, Chika Moses, told reporters that the whole crew at Channels TV was devastated when they heard about Akogwu's death, especially when they had to deliver the news about the death of their own journalist. Just days after Nigeria learned about Akogwu's death, a picture of him wearing a vest with the word \"PRESS\" written in bold letters across the front spread rapidly on various blogs and social media.\n\nFour years after Akogwu's death, his mother, Agnes Akogwu was approached by reporters from Idoma Voice. She told them she was still in disbelief. When Akogwu's father died in 2010, his mother talked to him about his career because she worried it was unsafe. Agnes said that the former senate president of Nigeria, David Mark, was very supportive after the death of her son. She also said that Channels TV and Idoma leaders were very helpful at that time and that the Benue and Kano state governments were generous enough to give her financial support. However, she did mention that there were some people who approached her at her son's burial and promised to help her other children get through school, but she had still not heard from them four years later.\n\nAfter Akogwu's death, his best friend and colleague, Idris Jibrin, admitted that Nigerian Police do not perform their jobs well. He claims that they tell journalists that when they go out on the job, they go at their own risk because the police cannot protect them. Jibrin also says that even the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) does not help and protect journalists like they should. The union was asked, by email, to comment on the tragedy but never responded. Another source claims that NUJ did comment on the events of Akogwu's death by saying that \"journalism in the country is hovering in a dangerous environment.\" Journalist, Paul Dada, also spoke out saying that the employers of reporters need to do a better job at ensuring the safety of their employees.\n\nThe day after Boko Haram attacked, Goodluck Jonathan, president of Nigeria at the time of Akogwu's death, promised that those responsible for the attacks would be brought to justice. Mohamed Keita, the Africa Advocacy coordinator for the Committee to Protect Journalists, also urged that action be taken to bring the attackers to justice. The Nigerian National Committee from the International Press Institute (IPI) recommended that the Nigerian government take action to better protect journalists in the future. In addition, IPI said that journalists should also be careful while on the job and should prioritize their own safety above their work. Reporters were unable to contact the Kano state police commissioner for comments on the evidence but instead, got a response from an official from the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). Yushau Shuaib from NEMA said that they were trying to save as many of the injured as they could and some NEMA officials from Kaduna even moved to Kano to help.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51335053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51335053", "title": "Franc Abulnar", "text": "Franc Abulnar\n\nFranc Abulnar was a Yugoslav cyclist. He rode for Hermes Ljubljana. as the first Slovenian he competed at 1936 Tour de France and was second on Yugoslav National Road Race Championships in 1938. He died in Canada.\n\nEkipa24\n"}
{"id": "42121081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42121081", "title": "Generally Accepted Privacy Principles", "text": "Generally Accepted Privacy Principles\n\nGenerally Accepted Privacy Principles (GAPP) is a framework intended to assist Chartered Accountants and Certified Public Accountants in creating an effective privacy program for managing and preventing privacy risks. The framework was developed through joint consultation between the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA) and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) through the AICPA/CICA Privacy Task Force.\n\nThe GAPP framework was previously known as the AICPA/CICA Privacy Framework, and is founded on a single privacy principle: personally identifiable information must be collected, used, retained and disclosed in compliance with the commitments in the entity's privacy notice and with criteria set out in the GAPP issued by the AICPA/CICA. This privacy objective is supported by ten main principles and over seventy objectives, with associated measurable criteria.\n\nPrivacy is defined in Generally Accepted Privacy Principles as \"the rights and obligations of individuals and organizations with respect to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, and disposal of personal information.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44512170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44512170", "title": "Guillaume Dubufe", "text": "Guillaume Dubufe\n\nGuillaume Édouard Marie Dubufe (16 May 1853, Paris – 25 May 1909, at sea, near Buenos Aires) was a French painter, decorator and illustrator.\n\nHis father Édouard was a painter and his mother (the daughter of composer Pierre-Joseph-Guillaume Zimmermann) was a sculptor. His grandfather, Claude, was also a painter and Charles Gounod was his uncle. Sadly, his mother died while giving birth to his sister Hortense when he was only two.\n\nAs might be expected, he received his first art lessons from his father, then pursued his studies at the École des Beaux-Arts under Alexis-Joseph Mazerolle. His first major commission involved decorating the ceiling of the foyer at the Comédie-Française\n\nWhen not staying at their mansion in Paris, his family (he had five children) stayed at their villa in Anacapri on the Isle of Capri, where he painted scenes of his home that would be exhibited in 1906 at the Georges Petit Gallery. From 1888 to 1890, he produced a series of paintings featuring the Virgin Mary. During the 1890s, he decorated the ceilings of the Lobau Gallery at the Hôtel de Ville, the banquet hall at the Élysée Palace and the library at the Sorbonne. In 1896, he designed and produced the décor for the \"Salon National des Beaux-Arts\". Four years later, he was one of several artists who provided decorations for Le Train Bleu, a famous restaurant near the Gare de Lyon. From 1906 to 1909, he and Édouard Rosset-Granger decorated the Town Hall of Saint-Mandé. He also illustrated several works by the French dramatist Émile Augier.\n\nHe died at sea. His friend, the sculptor Albert Bartholomé provided the bas-relief for his memorial at Père Lachaise cemetery. In 1921, his mansion in Paris was acquired by Marie Henner, who turned it into a museum. It was donated to the French government in 1926, and is now known as the Musée national Jean-Jacques Henner.\n\nHis daughter , also became a painter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39826687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39826687", "title": "HMS Calypso (1783)", "text": "HMS Calypso (1783)\n\nHMS \"Calypso\" was a Royal Navy Echo Class ship-sloop. She was built at Deptford between 1781 and 1783, launched on 27 September 1783 and first commissioned on 1 December 1783 for service off Northern Ireland and Scotland. She served in the North Sea, Atlantic, and the West Indies. \"Calypso\" was sunk whilst acting as a convoy escort on 30 July 1803 after colliding with a West Indiaman merchant ship during a violent storm.\n\n\"Calypso\" was built to the same technical drawings as the five other \"Echo\"-class ships: , , , , and . The class was designed to be 16-gun ship sloops with quarterdecks and forecastles.\n\nAll use the same plans for frame, Inboard profile, Lines, Stern, and upper and lower decks\n\n\"Calypso\" was first commissioned in September 1783 under Commander Ralph Dundas for service on the Irish and Scottish stations. She was then refitted at Plymouth and placed in ordinary in October 1785. She was paid off in October 1786.\n\nHer second commission began in January 1787 under Commander William Mitchell. After fitting for Channel service she sailed for Jamaica on 16 April 1787, returning to home waters in 1790 and once more being placed in ordinary.\n\n\"Calypso\" underwent a period of repair and was refitted at Portsmouth between July 1793 and March 1796. Her third commission began in January 1796 under Commander Andrew Smith, who took her to sea following her repair and refit to join Admiral Duncan's North Sea Fleet.\n\nIn January 1797 Commander Richard Worsley took command and operated \"Calypso\" as a convoy escort and cruiser. Commander C. Collis succeeded Worsley in November 1797. Collis continued operating in this role until April 1798 when \"Calypso\" returned to Portsmouth for refit.\n\nCommander Henry Garrett took command in April 1799 and was succeeded by Commander Joseph Baker in November of that year. Baker took \"Calypso\" to the Caribbean, sailing for the Leeward Islands in February 1800. Whilst under Baker's command on this station, \"Calypso\" participated in several notable actions.\n\n\nIn October 1801 Commander Robert Barrie assumed command, followed by Commander Edward Brenton in April 1802, and finally by Commander William Venour in August 1802.\n\nOn 30 July 1803, \"Calypso\" and the 74-gun \"Goliath\" were escorting a convoy of heavily laden West Indiamen from Jamaica. The convoy was caught in a violent storm that dismasted 21 of the vessels. One of the merchantmen ran down \"Calypso\", sinking her with the loss of all hands.\n\nAs an unrated sloop-of-war \"Calypso\" was too small a ship to warrant a Post-captain and was instead commanded by an officer in the rank of Commander, although aboard ship he was afforded the courtesy title of Captain. The commanders of HMS \"Calypso\" were:\n\n\nFrom 1794 the Admiralty allowed a crew of 121 for a 16-gun sloop such as HMS \"Calypso\". The Commander and Lieutenants were professional sea officers, trained in gunnery, navigation and seamanship in equal measure and appointed to the ship by Admiralty Commission. The Lieutenants were all at least nineteen years of age, having served a minimum six-year apprenticeship as Midshipman or Master's Mate before undertaking and passing the examination for Lieutenant. The Commander would usually have been an experienced Lieutenant who had come to the attention of the Admiralty or his Commander-in-Chief through some distinction in service or by having an influential patron. The Commander's duties were almost identical to those of a Post Captain, although on a smaller scale, the exception being that as a Commander he had no automatic rights of promotion to the flag list and could quite easily remain a Commander for the rest of his career.\n\nThe Warrant Officers were specialists appointed to the ship by Navy Board Warrant. The Wardroom Warrant Officers were allowed all the privileges of a Commissioned Officer, eating and sleeping with the Lieutenants. The Standing Warrant Officers stayed with the ship throughout its commission and remained aboard when the ship was placed in ordinary. They were heavily involved with the fitting out of the ship and general maintenance. Cockpit Officers had a higher status than the Petty Officers and could generally expect to reach the Wardroom in time, with its members aspiring to be Lieutenants, Masters, Pursers or Surgeons. Petty Officers performed particular roles that required additional skills or expertise, and they were usually rated by the Captain or First Lieutenant on joining the ship. Unlike the Warrant Officers, the Petty Officers had no security in his rank; the Captain could demote a Petty Officer for negligence. A Petty Officer could also lose his rating on moving to a new ship.\n\nThe seaman were classed as either Able Seaman, Ordinary Seaman, or Landsman. An Able Seaman was an expert all rounder, happy aloft in the rigging or taking the helm and all other aspects of shipboard life. An Ordinary Seaman was one who had a grasp of basic seamanship and could be useful aboard ship but was not yet an expert or skillful sailor. A Landsman was a man with very little or no prior sea experience at all, most commonly a product of the press gang.\n\nThe full crewing requirements for a 16-gun sloop are given in the table below.\n\n"}
{"id": "30729045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30729045", "title": "International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems", "text": "International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems\n\nThe International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems or AAMAS is the leading scientific conference for research in the areas of artificial intelligence, autonomous agents, and multiagent systems. It is annually organized by a non-profit organization called the International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (IFAAMAS).\n\nThe AAMAS conference is a merger of three major international conferences/workshops, namely International Conference on Autonomous Agents (AGENTS), International Conference on Multi-Agent Systems (ICMAS), and International Workshop on Agent Theories, Architectures, and Languages (ATAL). As such, this highly respected joint conference provides a quality forum for discussing research in this area.\n\nThe next AAMAS conference (AAMAS 2018) will take place from July 10-15, 2018, in Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nA list of previous AAMAS conferences is as follows: \n\nBesides the main program that consists of a main track, an industry and applications track, and a couple of special area tracks, AAMAS also hosts over 20 workshops (e.g., AOSE, COIN, DALT, ProMAS, to mention a few) and many tutorials. There is also a demonstration session and a doctoral symposium. Finally, each year AAMAS features a bunch of awards, most notably the IFAAMAS Influential Paper Award. It publishes proceedings which are available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "26945265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26945265", "title": "Ioannis Poutetsis", "text": "Ioannis Poutetsis\n\nIoannis Poutetsis (, 1878–1912) was a Greek revolutionary leader from the region of Epirus, in the early 20th century.\n\nPoutetsis was born in the village of Stegopuli (Lunxhëri), near Gjirokastër. From September 1908 he became the leader of one of the most notable Greek guerrilla groups that operated in the area of Ioannina before the outbreak of the imminent Balkan Wars (1912–1913), adopting the nom de guerre \"Vorgias\".\n\nHe used the monastery of Saint Paraskevi near the village of Pramanta as his base of operations and fought several skirmishes against Ottoman detachments. On September 26, 1912, his group was defeated near Delvinë in a battle against Albanian groups and an Ottoman detachment, and Poutetsis was killed.\n"}
{"id": "25995056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25995056", "title": "Jack Abrahams", "text": "Jack Abrahams\n\nJack Abrahams, also known as Jack Abrams, was an English footballer who played as a wing-half. He played 13 matches and scored one goal in the Football League for Burnley.\n\nAbrahams joined Burnley in September 1885 and played in many friendly matches during the 1885–86 season, scoring his first goal for the club in the 1–2 defeat to Bolton Wanderers on 19 September. He scored thrice in total over the course of the campaign, adding to his tally with goals against Preston North End and Aston Villa. Abrahams remained an integral part of the Burnley side during the following three seasons.\nJack Abrams made his League debut on 8 September 1888, playing at wing-half, at Deepdale, home of Preston North End who beat Burnley 5–2. Jack Abrams scored his debut and only League goal on 29 December 1888, playing at wing-half, at Turf Moor, home of Burnley, Abrams scoring the only goal in a 1–0 win over Notts County. Jack Abrams appeared in 13 of the 22 League games played by Burnley in season 1888–89 scoring one League goal. As a wing-half (12 appearances) he played in a Burnley midfield that achieved a big (three–League–goals–or–more) win once. As a centre-half (one appearance) he played in a Burnley defence that kept the opposition to one–League–goal–in–a–match–once.\n"}
{"id": "11904732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11904732", "title": "Jimmy Blair (footballer, born 1918)", "text": "Jimmy Blair (footballer, born 1918)\n\nJames Alfred Blair (6 January 1918 — 1983) was a Scottish professional football player. A forward, he was the son of Scottish international Jimmy Blair, Sr. and brother of Doug Blair.\n\nBlair began his professional career with Cardiff City in the 1930s, but after failing to break into the \"Bluebirds\" first team, he was transferred to Joe Smith's Blackpool in June 1935. He made his debut for the \"Tangerines\" in the third league game of the 1937–38 season, in a single-goal victory over Everton at Bloomfield Road on 4 September 1937. His strike partner, Bobby Finan, scored the goal. Blair went on to make a further twenty appearances in the league that campaign, scoring four goals in the process: two in a 4–2 victory at Brentford on 16 September, one in a 4–2 defeat in the following game at home to Leicester City two days later, and one in a 2–1 victory at Portsmouth on 23 October.\n\nIn 1938–39, Blair managed just four league appearances as Joe Smith tried out several partners for Bobby Finan. In the first full season after World War II, 1946–47, Blair made twenty-five league appearances and scored four goals as Blackpool achieved a fifth-placed finish in Division One. One of his goals gave Blackpool both points against Chelsea at Bloomfield Road on 2 November 1946, while another helped them to a 3–2 victory over Liverpool, also at home, at the end of the month. Blair's final appearance for Blackpool occurred on 12 April 1947, in a 2–0 loss at home to Stoke City. It was his fiftieth league appearance for the club.\n\nBlair joined Bournemouth & Bomscombe Athletic in 1947, and in two years with the south-coast club he made eighty league appearances and scored eight goals.\n\nIn 1949, Blair joined Leyton Orient, with whom he made the most appearances and scored the most goals of his career: 104 league games and twenty-six goals. Blair's final two clubs were non-League outfits Ramsgate Athletic and Canterbury City.\n\nBlair won one cap for Scotland, on 19 October 1946, in a 3–1 defeat to Wales. Blair had played for the Wales schoolboys team.\n\nBlair died in 1983 at the age of 65.\n"}
{"id": "213380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213380", "title": "Left- and right-hand traffic", "text": "Left- and right-hand traffic\n\nLeft-hand traffic (LHT) and right-hand traffic (RHT) are the practice, in bidirectional traffic, of keeping to the left side or to the right side of the road, respectively. A fundamental element to traffic flow, it is sometimes referred to as the rule of the road.\n\nRHT is used in 163 countries and territories, with the remaining 78 countries and territories using LHT. Countries that use LHT account for about a sixth of the world's area with about 35% of humanity and a quarter of its roads. In 1919, 104 of the world's territories were LHT and an equal number were RHT. From 1919 to 1986, 34 of the LHT territories switched to RHT.\n\nMany of the countries with LHT were formerly part of the British Empire. In addition, Japan, Thailand, Suriname and other countries have retained the LHT tradition. Conversely, many of the countries with RHT were formerly part of the French colonial empire or, in Europe, were subject to French rule during the Napoleonic conquests.\n\nFor rail traffic, LHT predominates in Western Europe (except Germany, Austria, Spain and the Netherlands), Latin America, and in countries formerly in the British and French Empires, whereas North American and central and eastern European train services operate RHT.\n\nAccording to the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, water traffic is effectively RHT: a vessel proceeding along a narrow channel must keep to starboard (the right-hand side), and when two power-driven vessels are meeting head-on both must alter course to starboard also. For aircraft the US Federal Aviation Regulations suggest RHT principles, both in the air and on water.\n\nIn healthy populations, traffic safety is thought to be the same regardless of handedness, although some researchers have speculated that LHT may be safer for ageing populations since humans are more commonly right-eye dominant than left-eye dominant.\n\nAncient Greek, Egyptian, and Roman troops kept to the left when marching. In 1998, archaeologists found a well-preserved double track leading to a Roman quarry near Swindon, in southern England. The grooves in the road on the left side (viewed facing down the track away from the quarry) were much deeper than those on the right side, suggesting LHT, at least at this location, since carts would exit the quarry heavily loaded, and enter it empty.\n\nThe first reference in English law to an order for LHT was in 1756, with regard to London Bridge.\n\nSome historians, such as C. Northcote Parkinson, believed that ancient travellers on horseback or on foot generally kept to the left, since most people were right-handed. If two men riding on horseback were to start a fight, each would edge toward the left. In the year 1300, Pope Boniface VIII directed pilgrims to keep left.\n\nIn the late 1700s, traffic in the United States was RHT based on teamsters' use of large freight wagons pulled by several pairs of horses. The wagons had no driver's seat, so the (typically right-handed) postilion held his whip in his right hand and thus sat on the left rear horse. Seated on the left, the driver preferred that other wagons pass him on the left so that he could be sure to keep clear of the wheels of oncoming wagons.\n\nIn France, traditionally foot traffic had kept right, while carriage traffic kept left. Following the French Revolution, all traffic kept right. Following the Napoleonic Wars, the French imposed RHT on parts of Europe. During the colonial period, RHT was introduced by the French in New France, French West Africa, the Maghreb, French Indochina, the West Indies, French Guiana and the Réunion, among others.\n\nMeanwhile, LHT was introduced by the British in parts of Canada (Atlantic Canada and British Columbia), Australia, New Zealand, the East Africa Protectorate (now Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda), British India, Rhodesia and the Cape Colony (now Zambia, Zimbabwe and South Africa), British Malaya (now Malaysia, Brunei and Singapore), British Guiana, and British Hong Kong. LHT was also introduced by the Portuguese Empire in Portuguese Macau, Colonial Brazil, Portuguese Timor, Portuguese Mozambique, and Portuguese Angola.\n\nThe first keep-right law for driving in the United States was passed in 1792 and applied to the Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike. New York formalized RHT in 1804, New Jersey in 1813 and Massachusetts in 1821.\n\nIn the early 1900s some countries including Canada, Spain, and Brazil had different rules in different parts of the country. During the 1900s many countries standardised within their jurisdictions, and changed from LHT to RHT, mostly to conform with regional custom. Currently nearly all countries use one side or the other throughout their entire territory. Most exceptions are due to historical considerations and/or involve islands with no road connection to the main part of a country. China is RHT except the Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau. The Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge is RHT even though both Hong Kong and Macau are LHT. The United States is RHT except the United States Virgin Islands. The United Kingdom is LHT, but its overseas territories of Gibraltar and British Indian Ocean Territory are RHT.\n\nInfluential in Europe was the 1920 Paris Convention, which advised driving on the right-hand side of the road, in order to harmonise traffic across a continent with many borders. This was despite the fact that left-hand traffic was still widespread: in 1915 for example, LHT was introduced everywhere in the Austro-Hungarian Empire; however, three years later the Empire was split up into several countries, and they all changed eventually to RHT, notably including when Nazi Germany introduced RHT with almost immediate effect in Czechoslovakia in 1938–39. \n\nSweden was LHT from about 1734 to 1967, despite having land borders with RHT countries, and approximately 90 percent of cars being left-hand drive (LHD) vehicles. A referendum was held in 1955, with an overwhelming majority voting against a change to RHT. Nevertheless, some years later the government ordered a conversion, which took place at 5 am on Sunday, 3 September 1967. The accident rate dropped sharply after the change, but soon rose back to near its original level. The day was known as \"Dagen H\" (\"H-Day\"), the 'H' being for \"Högertrafik\" (\"right traffic\"). When Iceland switched the following year, it was known as \"H-dagurinn\", again meaning \"H-Day\".\n\nIn the late 1960s, the UK Department for Transport considered switching to RHT, but declared it unsafe and too costly for such a built-up nation. Road building standards, for motorways in particular, allow asymmetrically designed road junctions, where merge and diverge lanes differ in length.\n\nToday, four countries in Europe continue to use left-hand traffic, all island nations: the UK, Cyprus, Ireland, and Malta.\n\nNationalist China adopted RHT in 1946. This convention was preserved when the CCP took the mainland and the KMT retreated to Taiwan. Hong Kong and Macau continue to be LHT.\n\nBoth North Korea and South Korea switched to RHT in 1945 after liberation from Japanese colonial power.\n\nMyanmar switched to RHT in 1970.\n\nSamoa, a former German colony, had been RHT for more than a century. It switched to LHT in 2009, being the first territory in almost 30 years to switch. The move was legislated in 2008 to allow Samoans to use cheaper right-hand drive (RHD) vehicles—which are better suited for left-hand traffic—imported from Australia, New Zealand or Japan, and to harmonise with other South Pacific nations. A political party, The People's Party, was formed to try to protest against the change, a protest group which launched a legal challenge, and an estimated 18,000 people attending demonstrations against it. The motor industry was also opposed, as 14,000 of Samoa's 18,000 vehicles are designed for RHT and the government has refused to meet the cost of conversion. After months of preparation, the switch from right to left happened in an atmosphere of national celebration. There were no reported incidents. At 05:50 local time, Monday 7 September, a radio announcement halted traffic, and an announcement at 6:00 ordered traffic to switch to LHT. The change coincided with more restrictive enforcement of speeding and seat-belt laws. That day and the following day were declared public holidays, to reduce traffic. The change included a three-day ban on alcohol sales, while police mounted dozens of checkpoints, warning drivers to drive slowly.\n\nThe Philippines was mostly LHT during its Spanish and American colonial periods, as well as during the Commonwealth era. During the Japanese occupation the Philippines remained LHT, also because LHT had been required by the Japanese; but during the Battle of Manila the liberating American forces drove their tanks to the right for easier facilitation of movement. RHT was formally finalised by Executive Order No. 34 signed by President Sergio Osmeña on 10 March 1945.\n\nA number of non-contiguous former British colonies in West Africa originally drove LHT and switched to RHT in the early 1970s to match the surrounding countries. Sierra Leone switched to RHT in 1971, Nigeria in 1972 and Ghana in 1974. Before this period The Gambia, a country entirely contained within RHT Senegal, had officially switched to RHT in 1965.\n\nRwanda, a former Belgian colony in central Africa, is RHT but is considering switching to LHT, to bring the country in line with other members of the East African Community (EAC). A survey, carried out in 2009, indicated that 54% of Rwandans were in favour of the switch. Reasons cited were the perceived lower costs of RHD vehicles as opposed to LHD versions of the same model, easier maintenance and the political benefit of harmonisation of traffic regulations with other EAC countries. The same survey also indicated that RHD cars are 16 to 49 per cent cheaper than their LHD equivalents. In 2014 an internal report from consultants to the Ministry of Infrastructure recommended a switch to LHT. In 2015, the ban on RHD vehicles was lifted; RHD trucks from neighbouring countries cost $1000 less than LHD models imported from Europe.\n\nIn one study, researchers concluded that left-hand traffic may be safer for elderly drivers, since humans are more commonly right-eye dominant than left-eye dominant. Comparing accident statistics between countries operating either LHT or RHT, Leeming concluded that LHT is superior. However, Watson has criticised the small sample size and dismisses the notion.\n\nAlthough many LHT jurisdictions are on islands, there are cases where vehicles may be driven from LHT across a border into a RHT area. Such borders are mostly located in Africa and southern Asia. The Vienna Convention on Road Traffic regulates the use of foreign registered vehicles in the 74 countries that have ratified it.\n\nLHT Thailand has three RHT neighbors: Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar. Most of its borders use a simple traffic light to do the switch, but there are also interchanges which enable the switch while keeping up a continuous flow of traffic.\n\nThere are four road border crossing points between Hong Kong and Mainland China. In 2006, the daily average number of vehicle trips recorded at Lok Ma Chau was 31,100. The next largest is Man Kam To, where there is no changeover system and the border roads on the mainland side Wenjindu intersect as one-way streets with a main road.\n\nThe Takutu River Bridge (which links LHT Guyana and RHT Brazil) is the only border in the Americas where traffic changes sides.\n\nAlthough the United Kingdom is separated from Continental Europe by the English Channel, the level of cross-Channel traffic is very high; the Channel Tunnel alone carries 3.5 million vehicles per year, by rail, between the UK and France.\n\nIn RHT jurisdictions, vehicles are configured with LHD, with the driver sitting on the left side. In LHT jurisdictions, the reverse is true. The driver's side, the side closest to the centre of the road, is sometimes called the \"offside\", while the passenger side, the side closest to the side of the road, is sometimes called the \"nearside\".\n\nHistorically there was less consistency in the relationship of the position of the driver to the handedness of traffic. Most American cars produced before 1910 were RHD. In 1908 Henry Ford standardised the Model T as LHD in RHT America, arguing that with RHD and RHT, the passenger was obliged to \"get out on the street side and walk around the car\" and that with steering from the left, the driver \"is able to see even the wheels of the other car and easily avoids danger.\" By 1915 other manufacturers followed Ford's lead, due to the popularity of the Model T.\n\nIn specialised cases, the driver will sit on the nearside, or kerbside. Examples include:\n\nGenerally, the convention is to mount a motorcycle on the left, and kickstands are usually on the left which makes it more convenient to mount on the safer kerbside as is the case in LHT. Some jurisdictions prohibit fitting a sidecar to a motorcycle's offside.\n\nMost low-beam headlamps produce an asymmetrical light suitable for use on only one side of the road. Low beam headlamps in LHT jurisdictions throw most of their light forward-leftward; those for RHT throw most of their light forward-rightward, thus illuminating obstacles and road signs while minimising glare for oncoming traffic.\n\nIn Europe, headlamps approved for use on one side of the road must be adaptable to produce adequate illumination with controlled glare for temporarily driving on the other side of the road. This may be achieved by affixing masking strips or prismatic lenses to a part of the lens or by moving all or part of the headlamp optic so all or part of the beam is shifted or the asymmetrical portion is occluded. Some varieties of the projector-type headlamp can be fully adjusted to produce a proper LHT \"or\" RHT beam by shifting a lever or other movable element in or on the lamp assembly. Some vehicles adjust the headlamps automatically when the car's GPS detects that the vehicle has moved from LHT to RHT and vice versa.\n\nBecause blackout strips and adhesive prismatic lenses reduce the safety performance of the headlamps, most countries require all vehicles registered or used on a permanent or semi-permanent basis within the country to be equipped with headlamps designed for the correct traffic-handedness.\n\nWithout sidecars attached, motorcycles, motor scooters, mopeds, and bicycles are almost symmetric with their handlebars in the centre. However, motorcycles are often equipped with automotive-type asymmetrical-beam headlamps that likewise require adjustments or replacement when brought into a country with opposite traffic-handedness.\n\nIn the European Union, vehicles must be equipped with one or two red rear fog lamps. A single rear fog lamp must be located between the vehicle's longitudinal centreline and the outer extent of the driver's side of the vehicle. Rear fog lamps are also being found on vehicles produced for Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.\n\nAn Australian news source reports that some RHD cars imported to that country did not perform as well on crash tests as the LHD versions, although the cause is unknown, and may be due to differences in testing methodology.\n\nOf the 194 countries currently recognised by the United Nations (and the unrecognised Palestine and Kosovo), 140 use RHT and 54 use LHT. A country and its territories and dependencies is counted once.\n\nSeveral states in Europe have RHT for roads but LHT for trains: Belgium, Italy, Monaco, Portugal, Slovenia, Sweden and Switzerland. France has mainly LHT for trains, except in Alsace-Lorraine, an eastern French territory which belonged to Germany for much of its history. UK and Ireland have LHT for both road and rail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1779164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1779164", "title": "List of serial killers by number of victims", "text": "List of serial killers by number of victims\n\nA serial killer is typically a person who murders three or more people, in two or more separate events over a period of time, for primarily psychological reasons. There are gaps of time between the killings, which may range from a few days to months, or many years. This list shows serial killers from the 20th century to present day by number of victims. In many cases, the exact number of victims assigned to a serial killer is not known, and even if that person is convicted of a few, there can be the possibility that they killed many more.\n\nOrganization and ranking of serial killings is made difficult by the complex nature of serial killers, and incomplete knowledge of the full extent of many killers' crimes. To address this, multiple categories have been provided in order to more accurately describe the nature of certain serial murders. This is not a reflection of an individual's overall rank, which may or may not vary depending on personal opinion concerning the nature and circumstances of their crimes. The fourth column in the table states the number of victims definitely assigned to that particular serial killer, and thus the table is in order of that figure. The fifth column states the number of possible victims the killer could have murdered. Some of these crimes are unsolved, but were included because they are the work of a serial killer, despite nobody being caught.\n\nThis list does not necessarily include war criminals or members of democidal governments, such as Adolf Hitler, Hideki Tojo, Mao Zedong, Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, or Pol Pot.\n\nThe most prolific modern serial killer is Harold Shipman, with 218 proven kills and possibly as many as 250 (see \"Medical professionals\", below). Excluding these \"Medical professionals and pseudo-medical professionals\", with their ability to kill simply and in plain sight, and Serial killer groups and couples (below), this list is a compilation of modern serial killers currently with the highest verifiable murder count.\nThis part of the list contains all serial killers with 15 to 30 proven victims who acted alone and were neither medical professionals nor contract killers.\n\nThis part of the list contains all serial killers with less than 15 proven victims who acted alone and were neither medical professionals nor contract killers.\n\nThis part of the list contains all serial killers with fewer than five proven victims who acted alone and were neither medical professionals nor contract killers.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> \"Proven victims\" being victims the serial killer was tried for, explained by the killer in a detailed confession, or victims most scholars of the subject agree upon.\n\n"}
{"id": "38914982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38914982", "title": "Microbial phylogenetics", "text": "Microbial phylogenetics\n\nMicrobial phylogenetics is the study of the manner in which various groups of microorganisms are genetically related. This helps to trace their evolution. \n\n"}
{"id": "430140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430140", "title": "Muhammad al-Baqir", "text": "Muhammad al-Baqir\n\nMuḥammad al-Baqir, full name Muhammad bin 'Ali bin al-Husayn bin Ali bin Abi Talib, also known as Abu Ja'far or simply al-Baqir () (677-733) was the fifth Shia Imam, succeeding his father Zayn al-Abidin and succeeded by his son Ja'far al-Sadiq. He was the first Imam descended from both grandsons of Muhammad: Hasan ibn Ali and Husayn ibn Ali. He is revered by Shiite Muslims for his religious leadership, and respected by Sunni Muslims for his knowledge and Islamic scholarship as a jurist in Medina.\n\nAl-Baqir had a prominent lineage: his paternal and maternal grandfathers, Husayn ibn Ali and Hasan ibn Ali, were Muhammad's grandsons. His father was Ali Zayn al-Abidin, a son of Husayn (Ali's second son), and his mother was Fatima Umm Abd Allah, a daughter of Hasan (Ali's first son).\n\nAl-Baqir was born in Medina around 56 AH (676 AD), when Muawiyah I was trying to ensure that his son Yazid I could inherit the caliphate. When Al-Baqir was a child, his family was affected by the Battle of Karbala; he was three or four years old when his grandfather, Husayn, was killed.\n\nAccording to Ya'qubi, al-Baqir was present at Karbala. In his youth he witnessed the struggle for power among the Umayyads, Abd Allah ibn al-Zubayr and a number of Shiite parties, whilst his father maintained a distance from local political activity.\n\nAl-Baqir is an abbreviation of \"Baqir al-'ilm\", which means \"he who opens knowledge\", and al-Baqir is said to have been known for his knowledge. According to Ibn Khallikan, he received the nickname \"al-Baqir\" (the ample) due to the \"ample fund of knowledge\" he collected. However, Ya'qubi believed that he was called al-Baqir because he \"split open knowledge\", examining its depths. The Shiites believe that \"Baqir al-'ilm\" was not an ordinary title, because it was given to him by Muhammad. According to al-Kulayni, Muhammad's only living companion Jabir ibn Abd Allah would sit in the mosque and cry: \"Ya baqir al-ilm, Ya baqir al-ilm\". Although Medinans thought that Jabir was insane, he assured them that Muhammad had told him: \"O Jabir! You will meet a man from my family who will have the same name and the same characteristics as mine. He will split open knowledge extensively.\" According to al-Kulayni, Jabir ibn Abd Allah met al-Baqir when passing a Quran school. Abd Allah saw that the imam was still a child, and examined him to see if he had the features which Muhammad had described. Jabir asked, \"Characteristics of the Messenger of Allah; by Him in whose hands is my soul, O boy, what is your name?\" When al-Baqir answered that he was Muhammad ibn Ali ibn al-Husayn, Jabir \"approached him, kissed his head and swore by his father and mother that Muhammad had recited greeting upon him.\". According to al-Kafi, Imam Baqir stressed the importance of intelligence saying that Allah will hold everyone accountable on the day of judgement according to the degree of intelligence they received in the worldly life. .\n\nDuring the imamah of Muhammad al-Baqir, riots erupted throughout the Islamic world due to the Umayyad Caliphate's oppression. Disagreements within the Umayyad party kept them occupied, and they left members of the household undisturbed for some time. However, tyranny in the Battle of Karbala had attracted many people to the imams. These conditions had permitted people (particularly the Shiites) to travel to Medina in large groups and visit the imam freely. The possibility of spreading Islam (which had not existed for the previous imams) was available to the fifth imam, indicated by a number of traditions about the imam and scholars trained under him.\n\nAfter the death of Ali ibn Husayn Zayn al-Abidin (the fourth Imam), most of the Shiites agreed upon his son al-Baqir as the next imam; a minority favored another son of the imam (Zayd ibn Ali), and became known as Zaidiyyah. According to Ibn Khallikan, Zaid (Muhammad al-Baqir's brother), appealed for people to support his cause. According to Al-Masudi, he asked for advice from Muhammad al-Baqir; al-Baqir advised him not to rely on the people of Kufa, explaining how they had previously behaved toward the members of his household. Zaid did not listen to his brother's advice, and led the people of Kufa in a fruitless riot.\n\nAccording to Al-Shahrastani, a dispute had arisen between Muhammad al-Baqir and Zaid because Zaid had been following the Mu'tazilite Wasil ibn Ata. Zaid had also announced that the position of imam was conditional on his appearing publicly to assert his rights. Muhammad al-Baqir replied, \"Your faith then is merely in your father, as such, for according to your theory he was not an imam, for he certainly never came forth to assert his claims.\"\n\nDespite his non-involvement in political activities, the Umayyad rulers harassed Muhammad al-Baqir. Many Shia individuals and delegations came to Medina from Kufa to hear al-Baqir's teachings and ask him questions, among which was who had the right to rule. He was also distrusted because of the uprising of his brother Zayd ibn Ali and other relatives.\n\nCaliph Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik made a pilgrimage to Mecca, where Mohammed al-Baqir and his son Ja'far al-Sadiq were present. At a gathering, al-Baqir delivered a sermon: \"We are the favorite and chosen servants of God, and His vicegerents on the face of the earth. One who obeys us is successful and one who opposes would be evil and wretched.\" His statements were conveyed to Hisham, who wrote to the governor of Medina when he returned to his court in Syria instructing him to send al-Baqir and his son to Damascus. When they arrived, he kept them waiting for three days; on the fourth he called them to court, where he was practicing archery with his officials.\n\nIn \"Ma'athiru'l-Baqir\" the imam discussed a number of topics, from the nature of the soul and the qualities of the Ulama to the attributes of God and the divine nature (explaining that it was impossible for humans to understand it). A man asked him, \"Should I think of anything (to understand Allah)?\" The imam replied: \"Yes, but you have to imagine a thing which the mind cannot contain and which is without limit. He is unlike whatever comes into your mind. Nothing resembles Him nor can any thought reach Him.\" He also said, \"Talk about the creation of Allah, but do not talk about Allah Himself, for that increases the owner of the talk nothing except perplexity.\" He defined a Rasul as a prophet who hears and sees the angel in bodily form or in a dream. A Nabi is a prophet who hears but does not see the angel, and the imam is like the Nabi.\nThe imam was frequently asked to explain teachings about the imamate, which is also explained in \"Ma'athiru'l-Baqir\" (a summary of which is translated into English in Canon Sell's \"Ithna ʻAsharíyya\" or \"The Twelve Shiʻah Imams\".\n\nWhen asked about collective knowledge of the Quran, Imam al-Baqir would say that no one collected and memorized the Holy Book as Allah revealed it except Muhammad, Ali ibn Abu Talib and the Imams of Ahl al-Bayt after him. Further, no one is able to claim that they have knowledge of the entire Quran, its apparent and hidden essence, except the executors of the will of the Holy Prophet. .\n\n\"Umm al-Kitab\", or \"The Archetype of the Book\", is in the form of a discussion between the imam and three companions. Resembling the \"Infancy Gospel of Thomas\", it illustrates the similarity between imamology and gnostic Christology. A major concept of this work is the description of the numinous experience. Its central motif is the psychological and philosophical explanation of spiritual symbols, with believers instructed to perform acts of self-purification and renewal. Colors are used to symbolize theories and levels of consciousness which one must recognize in oneself.\n\n, or \"Tafsir Abul Jaroud\", is al-Baqir's exegesis of the Quran. Ibn al-Nadim included this book in his list of exegeses of the Quran in his \"Kitab al-Fihrist\", writing that Abul Jaroud Ziyad ibn Abi Ziyad (the head of the Jarudiyya) reported al-Baqir's book. According to Sayyd Hasan al-Sadr, \"A group of the reliable Shiites reported the book from him [Abul Jaroud] from the days of his righteousness\"; among them was Abu Basïr Yahya bin al-Qasim al-Asadi. Ali bin Ibrahï~m bin Hashim al-Qummi also mentioned it in his book, \"al-Tafsïr\", by the authority of Abu Basïr.\n\nImam died on 7th Dhu al-Hijjah. Imam al-Baqir was poisoned by Caliph Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik. According to the Shi'i account, the Caliph gave Zaid a saddle treated with poison; Zaid gave it to the Imam, who used it and died. Al-Baqir was laid to rest under the dome in al-Baqi', where the Imams Hasan ibn Ali and Ali ibn Husayn Zayn al-Abidin were buried. The grave was demolished by the Wahhabis in 1806, later rebuilt by believers, and then demolished again in 1926.\n\n"}
{"id": "1592952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1592952", "title": "Mystery meat", "text": "Mystery meat\n\nMystery meat is a disparaging term for meat products, typically ground or otherwise processed, such as burger patties, chicken nuggets, Spam, Salisbury steaks, sausages, or hot dogs, that have an unidentifiable source. Most often the term is used in reference to food served in institutional cafeterias, such as prison food or an American public school lunch.\n\nThe term is also sometimes applied to meat products where the species from which the meat has come from is known, but the cuts of meat used are unknown. This is often the case where the cuts of meat used include offal and mechanically separated meat, where explicitly stating the type of meat used might diminish the perceived palatability of the product to some consumers.\n\n"}
{"id": "27493016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27493016", "title": "Nucleobase cation symporter-1", "text": "Nucleobase cation symporter-1\n\nThe Nucleobase:Cation Symporter-1 (NCS1) Family (TC# 2.A.39) consists of over 1000 currently sequenced proteins derived from Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, archaea, fungi and plants. These proteins function as transporters for nucleobases including purines and pyrimidines. Members of this family possess twelve transmembrane α-helical spanners (TMSs). At least some of them have been shown to function in uptake by substrate:H symport mechanism.\n\nThe bacterial and yeast proteins are widely divergent and do not cluster closely on the NCS1 family phylogenetic tree. \"B. subtilis\" possesses two paralogues of the NCS1 family, and \"S. cerevisiae\" has several. Two of the yeast proteins (Dal4 (TC# 2.A.39.3.1) and Fur4 (TC# 2.A.39.3.2)) cluster tightly together. Three other \"S. cerevisiae\" proteins, one of which is the thiamin permease, Thi10 (TC# 2.A.39.4.1), and another of which is the nicotinamide riboside transporter, Nrt1 (TC# 2.A.39.4.2), also cluster tightly together. The latter three proteins are likely to be closely related thiamin permease isoforms. The yeast cytosine-purine and vitamin B6 transporters cluster loosely together (24% identity; e-50). The bacterial proteins are derived from several Gram-negative and Gram-positive species. These proteins exhibit limited sequence similarity with the xanthine permease, PbuX (TC# 2.A.39.4.1), of \"Bacillus subtilis\" which is a member of the NCS2 family.\n\nProteins of the NCS1 family are 419-635 amino acyl residues long and possess twelve putative transmembrane α-helical spanners (TMSs). At least some of them have been shown to function in uptake by substrate:H symport. In these respects, and with respect to substrate specificity, these proteins resemble the symporters of the NCS2 family, providing further evidence that the two families represent distant constituents of a single superfamily, the APC Superfamily. The two families probably arose by an early gene duplication event that occurred long before divergence of the three major kingdoms of life. It is possible that they are distant constituents of the MFS (2.A.1).\n\nThe nucleobase-cation-symport-1 (NCS1) transporters are essential components of salvage pathways for nucleobases and related metabolites. Weyand et al. (2008) reported the 2.85-angstrom resolution structure of the NCS1 benzyl-hydantoin transporter, Mhp1 (TC# 2.A.39.3.6), from \"Microbacterium liquefaciens\". This structure (and related structures) are available through RCSB (, , , , , ). Mhp1 contains 12 transmembrane helices, 10 of which are arranged in two inverted repeats of five helices. The structures of the outward-facing open and substrate-bound occluded conformations were solved, showing how the outward-facing cavity closes upon binding of substrate. Comparisons with the leucine transporter LeuT(Aa) and the galactose transporter vSGLT reveal that the outward- and inward-facing cavities are symmetrically arranged on opposite sides of the membrane. The reciprocal opening and closing of these cavities is synchronized by the inverted repeat helices 3 and 8, providing the structural basis of the alternating access model for membrane transport.\n\nNCS1 proteins are H/Na symporters specific for the uptake of purines, pyrimidines and related metabolites. Krypotou et al. 2015 studied the origin, diversification and substrate specificities of fungal NCS1 transporters, suggesting that the two fungal NCS1 subfamilies, Fur and Fcy, and plant homologues, originated through independent horizontal transfers from prokaryotes. Expansion by gene duplication led to functional diversification of fungal NCS1 porters. They characterized all Fur proteins in Aspergillus nidulans. Homology modelling, substrate docking, molecular dynamics and systematic mutational analysis in three Fur transporters with distinct specificities identified residues critical for function and specificity, located within a major substrate binding site, in transmembrane segments TMS1, TMS3, TMS6 and TMS8. They predicted and confirmed that residues determining substrate specificity are located not only in the major substrate binding site, but also in a putative outward-facing selectivity gate. Their evolutionary and structure-function analyses led to the concept that selective channel-like gates may contribute to substrate specificity.\n\nThe generalized transport reaction catalyzed by NCS1 family permeases is:\n\n"}
{"id": "5469620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5469620", "title": "Orussidae", "text": "Orussidae\n\nThe Orussidae or the parasitic wood wasps represent a small family of sawflies (\"Symphyta\"). Currently, about 85 extant and four fossil species are known. They take a key position in phylogenetic analyses of Hymenoptera, because they form the sister taxon of the megadiverse apocritan wasps, and the common ancestor of Orussidae + Apocrita invented parasitism for the first time in course of the evolution of the Hymenoptera. They are also the only sawflies with carnivorous larvae.\n\nThe fully winged wasps are 2−23 mm long. They are predominantly black but species of \"Chalinus\", \"Mocsarya\" and \"Orussobaius\" are more or less metallic. Some species have a red thorax or abdomen and conspicuous white or golden pilosity. Many \"Orussus\" species bear white spots on the legs. The antennae of males are composed of 11, those of females of 10 articles. The modified distal antennal articles of females (article 9 enlarged, article 10 very small) are involved in vibrational sounding to detect suitable oviposition sites and the host larvae living concealed inside wood. Contrary to other \"Symphyta\", the antennae insert near the lower edge of the compound eyes and close to the mandible. The mandibles are orthognathous and lack evident teeth. The number of palpomeres of the maxilla and the labium varies and is used as a taxonomic character. On the wings, some cross-veins are reduced in comparison with the more complete venation of other basal Hymenoptera. Similar as in most other sawflies, the wings are held at rest with a device called \"cenchri\". The complete body is strongly sclerotized and bears a species-specific microstructure, which is relevant for species identification. The ovipositor is several times as long as the body, and at rest it extends inside the body from the abdomen to the prothorax, where it is coiled, and back towards the tip of the abdomen again.\n\nOrussidae and Stephanidae are the sole Hymenoptera, in which the head bears a corona of erected teeth around the frontal ocellus. Contrary to Orussidae, the Stephanidae lack cenchri, and their mesosoma and metasoma are separated by a wasp waist, which is absent in Orussidae.\n\nSimilar to the larvae of apocritan Hymenoptera, larvae of Orussidae have reduced some morphological features as a result of their parasitic life style inside the tunnels of wood-boring insects. They are white, subcylindrical, weakly sclerotized with a distinct head capsule. The mouthparts are hypognathous. Eyes and legs are reduced or completely absent. The mandibles are well developed and strongly sclerotized. Palps of maxilla and labium lack. The surface of the body is subdivided into distinct segments, each bearing a transverse row of 8−10 backward pointing spines.\n\nOrussid wasps have generally been collected only rarely. Over the years, their abundance has been subject to strong fluctuations. The species are thermophilous and wasps are active during the hottest hours of the day. Therefore, they are rarely found by the entomologists specialized in sawflies.\n\nOnly for few species the larval biology is known. Orussidae are parasitoids of xylobiontic larvae of beetles or Hymenoptera, particularly of the larvae of jewel beetles (Buprestidae), long-horned beetles (Cerambycidae), and wood wasps (Siricidae, Xiphydriidae). Orussids can be observed running around quickly on dead tree trunks. The females locate the host larvae living concealed inside wood by generating vibrations by tapping the tips of their antennae against the wood surface. The vibrations are picked up by the modified fore legs. After locating the host, the female drills into the wood with the very long ovipositor and lays the egg. The egg is very elongate with a small expansion on the anterior end and a long expansion on the posterior end. The egg is coiled on the host. In some species the egg is possibly laid into the tunnel of the host if the host itself can not be reached, and the orussid larva itself crawls to the host. On its way to the host it may gnaw through the wood shavings left by the host. It has been disputed whether this material contributes to the nutrition of the larva. At least in \"Guiglia schauinslandi\", the larva lives externally for its first two instars and then enters the putrid(?) liquid in the dead host, where it remains until the adult emerges.\n\nNumerous morphological and genetic studies indicate that the Orussidae form the sister taxon of the Apocrita, the wasps, bees, and ants. Accordingly, parasitic life style has not evolved first in Apocrita but in the common ancestor of Orussidae + Apocrita.\n\nEarlier, the Orussidae were sometimes put into a separate suborder, Idiogastra, but today they are classified with an own superfamily, Orussoidea. Orussidae are demonstrably monophyletic. Tribes and subfamilies within the Orussidae have been abandoned, since such earlier subdivisions could not be corroborated in phylogenetic analyses.\n\nThe cladogram is based on Schulmeister 2003. The Orussoidea are sister to the Apocrita.\n\nAn identification key for the genera of the World was published by Vilhemsen (2003). The following list summarizes the genera and species and their gross distribution together with indications on identifikation keys:\n\n\nTwelve species of Orussidae are distributed in the United States and in Canada:\n\n\nIn Great Britain, \"Orussus abietinus\" (Scopoli, 1763) was recorded by Stephens (1835) upon two specimens caught by William Elford Leach in Darenth Wood and Devonshire around 1817. Morice (1904) recorded a more recent specimen taken at Hastings about 1880, but after re-examination this turned out to be \"Xiphydria prolongata\" (Geoffroy, 1785) (Xiphydriidae). Benson (1951) supposed \"O. abietinus\" \"to have occurred in Britain in former times.\"\n\nThe extant Orussidae are believed to have originated in the Jurassic. Fossils have been reported from the Lower Jurassic of Grimmen (Lower Toarcian, Germany) and the Middle Jurassic of Daohugou (China), which display a mixture of characters associated with Orussoidea and with basal Apocrita, thus it is impossible to classify these specimens which one of these clades. \"Ophrynopus peritus\" Engel, 2008 was described from Dominican Amber, \"Baltorussus velteni\" Schedl, 2011 from Baltic Amber, \"Mesorussus taimyrensis\" Rasnitsyn, 1977 from the Late Cretaceous of Taimyr, Sibiria und \"Minyorussus luzzii\" Basibuyuk, Quicke & Rasnitsyn, 2000 from the Late Cretaceous of New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1946101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946101", "title": "Parallax (comics)", "text": "Parallax (comics)\n\nParallax is a fictional comic book supervillain in the DC Comics universe.\n\nCreated by writer Ron Marz and artist Darryl Banks for \"Green Lantern\" vol. 3, #48 (January 1994), Parallax was originally devised as the new supervillain identity for then-former Green Lantern protagonist Hal Jordan. After further changes for the Hal Jordan character over the subsequent years (sacrificing his life in order to reignite Earth’s Sun in the 1996 crossover storyline \"The Final Night\", and Jordan’s soul subsequently becoming the newest host of the Spectre in the 1999 miniseries \"Day of Judgment\"), 2004's \"\" once again cast Jordan as a heroic Green Lantern and explained Parallax as an ancient entity embodying the yellow light of fear which possessed Jordan and drove him to villainous action. Parallax was revealed to have been once imprisoned within the Central Power Battery on the planet Oa, from which all Green Lanterns derive their power, and was the reason for the necessary impurity that in the past rendered the rings useless against anything colored yellow.\n\nIn 2009, Parallax was ranked as IGN's 92nd Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.\n\nIn 1994, in an effort to generate interest in its Green Lantern comics, DC replaced Hal Jordan, who had been the primary Green Lantern since the late 1950s, with the character Kyle Rayner, and eliminated the Green Lantern Corps which had served as supporting characters in the series. This was done in the story \"Emerald Twilight\", beginning \"Green Lantern\" vol. 3, #48 (Jan. 1994). Following the complete destruction of his home town Coast City by the villain Mongul, Hal Jordan descends into madness, destroying the Green Lantern Corps, killing his friend Kilowog and all of the Guardians except for Ganthet. After this, Jordan assumed the name Parallax and became a supervillain. As detailed in the crossover \"\", Parallax attempted to rewrite history in order to stop the destruction of Coast City by using chronal energy, pulled from the universe by the combined power of the rings of the Green Lanterns he had killed. While Kyle Rayner became the primary Green Lantern of Earth for the next decade, Hal Jordan terrorized the DC universe as the villain Parallax and attempted to make the Cyborg Superman pay for the destruction of Coast City.\n\nHal eventually sacrificed his life to reignite Earth's sun after it was nearly completely eaten. His soul not at peace, Hal then became the new Spectre to seek redemption for what he did as Parallax. The 2004 miniseries \"\", written by Geoff Johns and penciled by Ethan Van Sciver, revealed that Parallax was actually a parasitic entity dating back to the dawn of time and born from the yellow of the emotional spectrum. The parasite was the sentient embodiment of fear, traveling from world to world and causing entire civilizations to destroy themselves out of paranoia.\n\nThe Guardians of the Universe imprisoned Parallax within the Central Power Battery on Oa using fear's opposite energy, willpower, along with the aid of one of the fear's counterparts, Ion. Parallax had lain dormant for billions of years, its true nature hidden by the Guardians to prevent anyone from trying to free it. Being yellow in color, Parallax eventually came to be referred to as simply \"the yellow impurity\", a flaw, whose nature was kept secret from the Corps, that made their rings useless against the color yellow: Parallax weakened its power over the corresponding spectrum; hence, only someone with the willpower to overcome great fear could master the power ring. Thus, when recruiting new Green Lanterns, the Guardians were careful to look for recruits who could do this. When the renegade Sinestro was later imprisoned in the Power Battery himself, his Qwardian yellow power ring tapped into Parallax's power and awakened it.\n\nSince Sinestro harbored hatred for Hal, Parallax chose Jordan as its tool to free itself. Parallax apparently spent years influencing Jordan, causing him to experience increasing self-doubt as well as causing his hair to prematurely whiten at the temples. Jordan's grief over the destruction of Coast City let Parallax influence Jordan's subsequent murderous activity, his apparent killing of Sinestro (actually a hard light construct), and Jordan's destruction of the Central Power Battery.\n\nAfter it was learned something amiss was happening on Oa, a task force (as shown in the \"Emerald Fallout\" series), which consisted of Guy Gardner, Wonder Woman, Captain Atom, Alan Scott, Martian Manhunter, Ferrin Colos of the Darkstars, and Arisia, ventured to Oa to discover the cause of Guy Gardner's visions of its destruction that were brought about by him wielding Sinestro's power ring (which was also fueled by the power expelled by the Guardians, their rings, batteries, or Parallax himself). On Oa, the task force confronted Hal, but he easily defeated them. Only Alan Scott and Guy Gardner were even able to manage to get a hit on Jordan. Guy proved to be the most effective against Jordan because he could absorb the energy that Jordan was using against him in the battle. Jordan still managed to quickly overpower Guy and destroy his Qwardian power ring. Jordan proceeded to send the whole task force (who were all knocked out from the beating they suffered) back to Earth.\n\nSince Parallax was gone from the Oan Power Battery, the final power ring conferred to Kyle Rayner did not have any weakness against yellow. The young ring bearer also has some limited resistance to the fear entity's influence as Rayner is a Green Lantern who understands fear, and has the requisite strong will of a ring bearer. Despite being possessed by Parallax, the positive aspect of Jordan's personality would resurface occasionally, eventually leading the infected Jordan to use Parallax's powers to reignite the Sun during the event known as \"The Final Night\", and later aiding the universe's greatest heroes to stop the rogue angel Asmodel from raising Hell to Earth and Heaven in \"Day of Judgment\". Jordan's infected soul later bonded with the Spectre, who knew Parallax's true nature from the start and eventually expelled it from Jordan. The Spectre itself left to search for the next human host. Ganthet guided Jordan's soul back to his own body, preserved after Jordan reignited the Sun. His soul and thoughts finally gaining clarity for the first time in years, Jordan was resurrected, again taking his place as a Green Lantern. Together, Kyle Rayner and fellow Green Lanterns John Stewart, Guy Gardner, a resurrected Kilowog, Hal Jordan, and Ganthet imprisoned the parasite back in the Central Power Battery on Oa.\n\nDespite this reintroduction of the \"yellow impurity\", which is now referred to as the \"Parallax Fear Anomaly\", the power rings' weakness against yellow no longer applies, as experienced wielders are now able to consciously recognize its source, and overcome the fear associated with it. It is still, however, a considerable weakness for new Green Lantern recruits and rookies, who must be taught the impurity's nature and how to combat it. During training, new recruits' rings may falter at times against yellow objects, and/or when a recruit is experiencing panic or fear.\n\nSinestro's Sinestro Corps captures Kyle Rayner with the intention of making him Parallax's new host. Sinestro reveals to Kyle the existence of Ion. Sinestro also informs him that Ion is actually an energy entity that needs a host, similar to Parallax, and it is now attached to Kyle's soul. Sinestro removes the Ion entity from Kyle, who is immediately taken over by Parallax. Parallax then clothes itself in a new uniform (which appears as a combination of Kyle's original Green Lantern costume and the costume Hal Jordan wore as Parallax) and returns to Qward with the Sinestro Corps.\n\nParallax becomes a herald of the reborn Anti-Monitor alongside Hank Henshaw, Superman-Prime, and Sinestro himself. After the massacre of several Green Lanterns, Parallax leads an assault against Hal Jordan, John Stewart, and Guy Gardner, and brings them to Qward. The \"Lost Lanterns\" arrive to rescue the captured Lanterns. During the battle, Parallax murders Jack T. Chance after making him experience his repressed fear of his abusive family.\n\nDuring his possession by Parallax, Kyle witnesses everything that Parallax does, including his murder of Jack. Kyle and Parallax confront each other in a room constructed by Kyle’s memories. Kyle changes into Ion and fights Parallax and later conjures a power ring and his original costume. After fighting Parallax for a while, Kyle stabs Parallax with a pencil and regains his self-worth when he sees a painting that his mother painted several years ago. Kyle walks into the painting and ends up in a field walking towards a bright, green star.\n\nLater on Earth, Parallax is about to kill Hal’s brother and family when Hal confronts him just before his power ring runs out of power. Hal then tries to free Kyle by reminding him of how fearless his mother was even on her deathbed. Parallax then absorbs Hal into himself; this twofold increase of his powers upon combining the strength of both of his hosts turns him his natural yellow color and develop a costume that more closely resembles the one he wore when Jordan was his only host. Soon after, Guy comes to Parallax with Kyle's mother's painting. This, along with Hal's aid, allows Kyle to fight Parallax from within, and the two manage to escape from Parallax. Now in its original form, Parallax begins to attack Hal, Guy, John, and Kyle. Ganthet and Sayd arrive and imprison Parallax within the Earth Lanterns' four Power Batteries. The effects of Parallax within the four Power Batteries has yet to be revealed.\n\nIn \"Green Lantern\" vol. 4, #41 (2009), it was revealed in the third part of the Agent Orange arc that Parallax was once sealed in a box that Larfleeze had stolen from the Guardians of the Universe. The box was returned to the Guardians in exchange for the orange light of avarice.\n\nWhile Jordan and his allies defend Coast City against the Black Lantern Corps, the Black Lantern Spectre attempts to claim him. Believing that the Spectre fears Parallax, Hal Jordan has Ganthet summon the power batteries that currently held it. Once summoned, Hal allows Sinestro to release Parallax and, once it's free, provokes it into merging with him. A resulting explosion of yellow light quickly fades and soon reveals that Parallax is in full control of Hal and eager to challenge the Spectre once more. Parallax tears into the Black Lantern Spectre's body, freeing the real Spectre and destroying the facsimile. Parallax then attempts to destroy the Spectre, who uses his own fear for it, coupled with the love Carol Ferris feels for Hal, to separate Parallax from its host. Parallax is then pulled away by an unknown force to an unknown location.\n\nAfter Sinestro becomes a White Lantern, he views the history of the emotional spectrum, and discovers that the first creature in existence to feel fear had evolved into Parallax.\n\nParallax is later revealed to have been transported to planet Ryut, where a cloaked villain trapped the fear entity in some kind of energy bubble and chained it to a monolith bearing the Sinestro Corps symbol. Around Parallax are other monoliths bearing the symbols of the other Lantern corps.\n\nLater, when Hal Jordan, the Flash (Barry Allen), and the rest of their allies try to find the emotional entities, they locate Parallax (apparently under the command of the mysterious figure) and the Scarlet Speedster becomes the latest host for the fear entity after it senses the hero's concerns for Jordan's safety from it. By inhabiting the living generator of the Speed Force, Parallax is even more powerful by combining the extradimensional energy the speedster creates with its own powers. Despite this, the embodiment of fear still desires Hal Jordan as its host as they fight. However, an intervention by the mystery villain prevents Parallax's attempts, and reveals that Jordan now has the skills to resist it anyway. As the embodiment of compassion, Proselyte, began to free the Flash from Parallax's control by reigniting his emotion for compassion over his fear, the embodiment of hope, Adara, began fighting the cloaked villain, who reveals that all this is actually a ruse so that he could capture them all — which he does — revealing himself to be the renegade guardian Krona.\n\nWhen Krona attacks Oa, he places Parallax inside the Central Power Battery, restoring the yellow impurity and giving him control over almost all Green Lanterns. Hal, John, Guy and Kyle are able to resist Parallax's influence due to their past experience with it, using the rings of the other six Corps to fight off Krona's forces long enough for Guy using the rings of the Red Lantern Corps and the Star Sapphires simultaneously to tear the Central Power Battery's shell away and remove Parallax. After Krona's defeat, Parallax escaped along with the other entities and is currently at large in the universe.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, it is shown that Parallax is in the Yellow Central Power Battery where the entity stays until he is released by Sinestro at the conclusion of the \"Wrath of the First Lantern\" story. In order to destroy the First Lantern Volthoom, Sinestro allows Parallax to possess his body. Contrary to previous hosts of Parallax, this time however, Sinestro is in control of the entity instead of the other way around. Their effort in defeating Volthoom however proves to be unsuccessful, with Volthoom only being defeated when Hal returns as a Black Lantern and summons Nekron to restore Volthoom's mortality. After Volthoom's defeat, Sinestro as Parallax proceeds to kill the Guardians of the Universe, sparing only Ganthet and Sayd in the process. Sinestro then states his intention to travel far from Oa and release Parallax.\n\nIn the \"Lights Out\" story, the Entity reveals that all embodiments are dying and they must return to the place of their origin, except Parallax because its currently entrapped. In the aftermath, its revealed that Parallax is still bonded with Sinestro, who controls the entity. Later, Sinestro releases and separate Parallax within the core of Warworld's base, trying to prevent the destruction of the new headquarters of Sinestro Corps, after the Green Lantern Corps were apparently dissolved.\n\nSubsequently, in \"DC Rebirth\", Parallax was being the host of Sinestro again as he has plans to rule the universe with fear. Parallax was increased by Sinestro to one thousand percent of the power of fear to face Hal Jordan, who has returned as Green Lantern. Before Sinestro attacks him, he discovers too late that his and Parallax's powers have decreased due to Soranik Natu rescuing people from being imprisoned and escapes with them. Hal then uses his energies as a living construct to incinerate the Fear Warlord. Sinestro tries to use Parallax's powers to stop Hal, but fails as he destroys the base of the Sinestro Corps, Warworld, seemingly killing both Sinestro and Parallax in the process.\n\nParallax is revealed to have survived and found its way to Earth, having shrunk in size. It starts kidnapping children to feed on their fear and regain its strength and power. The entity possesses the body of one of the children, Zachariah Ferruci, and kidnaps another child until they are found by Superman. Parallax uses the children to fight back against Superman and flees. The next day, Parallax welcomes Superman to finds where it is keeping the children. Parallax transforms into his normal size and revealing to Superman who it is. Parallax tries to possess Superman but he is able to force it out. However, Parallax begins draining the children's lives, forcing Superman to submit. Parallax possesses Superman and as it claims that nothing can hurt it anymore, Parallax is struck from behind by Sinestro, who has returned to claim it for himself. During the fight, Parallax refused to possess Sinestro for his action, Sinestro teleports to Qward, as the Weaponers are to restrain the entity. While Parallax apparently possesses Superman in contain as Sinestro attempt to remove the host of Parallax, but Superman tells him that he is not being Parallax's control. Parallax is in possession of the Weaponers to attack Sinestro. Parallax separate from the Weaponers and tried to escapes. Sinestro failed to capture Parallax that his power has drained and collapses, Superman takes his yellow ring and files into Parallax's mouth, Superman used his fear to imprison Parallax within a yellow ring, while Sinestro is no match for Superman and flees.\n\nLater, Superman waits for Hal Jordan to return Earth, explaining the previous fight with Parallax. Hal imprisons Parallax within a yellow ring for transportation back to Mogo.\n\nParallax has immense fear-casting and mind-control powers, strong enough to easily frighten and control the likes of Superman, Wonder Woman, and even someone like Spectre, except those who are capable of understanding and conquering inner fear such as Hal Jordan, Kyle Rayner or Batman. However, it was unable to control Alan Scott even though he experienced fear from Parallax (Abin Sur explains that in humans fear is intellectual, which may have something to do with the ineffectuality of Parallax's powers and the fear entity itself mentioned that Alan's power differs from the fear entity, the Guardians, and the Green Lantern Corps as they derive their powers from emotional spectrum), although he did experience a fever which led him to increasingly weaken during Parallax's attempts. It can take possession of someone's body when they feel even the slightest fear. Parallax is also capable of creating solid light constructs, such as creating a convincing duplicate of Sinestro for Hal Jordan to kill. Parallax can create both green and yellow objects or creatures. As a being of pure energy, Parallax has no true physical form of its own; it generally changes into forms that will instill fear in its victims.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7229214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7229214", "title": "Parliament of Trees", "text": "Parliament of Trees\n\nThe Parliament of Trees is a fictional group of Plant Elementals appearing in books published by DC Comics, sometimes under its Vertigo imprint, which function as supporting characters to Swamp Thing. Created by writer Alan Moore and artist Stan Woch, the Parliament first appeared in \"Swamp Thing\" #47 (April 1986). \n\nIn Moore's storyline, Plant Elementals have existed on Earth long before humans. Born when a being dies in flames and merges with the Earth, the Elementals became protectors of plant life throughout history. When they had done their time, they would join the Parliament of Trees, a group mind of former Elementals. Over time the membership grew with beings such as Eyam (based on the form of a trilobite), Swamp Knucker (a dinosaur-like dragon), Bog Venus (patterned on the mind of a medicine woman), Ghost Hiding in the Rushes (a sorcerer of 3rd-century China), Swamp Thing (an early 20th-century scientist), and many others. Until recently, the Parliament was stationed in a grove in Brazil, at south of the Tefé River, while their minds dwelled in the realm of the Green.\n\nAlthough preaching peace, the Parliament was involved in several conflicts in the past. Once united with the Parliament of Stones, the Parliament separated from the other to set in motion an elaborate plot to someday destroy mankind. The Parliament also had to fight off the fungus-based Grey, invaders from another world that eventually became the mushroom life of this planet. Quite recently, it was revealed that the Parliament of Trees (and other Elemental Parliaments) had an agenda with Swamp Thing that included the destruction of mankind and the re-making of Earth. To prevent that from happening, the Heavenly power called The Word was sent to destroy the Parliament, but not until they had passed on all their power to the Swamp Thing, who would do their bidding. But Swamp Thing refused in the last second, giving humanity another chance. The Parliament of Trees is now eternally burning in the realm of the Green. A few of its former members have survived since they were not present during the massacre at the hands of The Word.\n\nDuring the climatic moments of the 2010-2011 \"Brightest Day\" miniseries, the White Lantern reveals that \"the Green has become black\" and corrupted. It also states that the central tree in the Star City forest is the foundation for the Parliament of Trees.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, it was shown that Alan Scott, Earth 2's Green Lantern, receives his powers through an association with \"The Green\". It was also revealed that besides the Parliament of Trees there are in fact four more Parliaments that together form the Earth's Parliament. The other four Parliaments consists of \"The Blue\" (also known as Clear) who represents the power of the oceans and is heralded by the enigmatic Parliament of Waves, \"The Grey\" (also known as Rot) who embody decay and appears to be heralded by the Parliament of Decay, \"The Red\" who stand for animal savagery and is heralded by the Parliament of Limbs, \"The White\" who stand for the power of the atmosphere which is heralded by a still unnamed Parliament. The members of this Parliament Enclave only meet when the Earth is in perilous danger such as Darkseid's invasion of Earth 2 to summon their avatars who embody the spirits to enact their will.\n\nThe Green is a mystical realm inhabited by the minds of all members of the Parliament of Trees, and it is a phenomenon that connects all forms of botanical life on earth. It is in the same category as The Red (which is connected to all animal life and run by the Parliament of Limbs), The Clear (which is associated with aquatic life and run by the Parliament of Vapors), an unnamed fire realm (which is associated with fire elementals and connected to the Parliament of Flames, which resides in the Earth's sun), The Melt (which is connected to Earth elementals and run by the Parliament of Stones), The Grey (which is connected to all fungal life), and The Black (which is associated with Death, was also called The Rot, and run by the Parliament of Decay). Various plant elementals of the DCU have been known to communicate with the Green as well and appear to have an in-tune rapport with it. These select few include the following:\n\nFloronic Man went insane after attempting to connect with the Green through Swamp Thing.\n"}
{"id": "646611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=646611", "title": "Peripatus", "text": "Peripatus\n\nPeripatus is a genus of velvet worms in the Peripatidae family. The name \"peripatus\" (unitalicized and uncapitalized) is also used to refer to the Onychophora as a whole, although this group comprises many other genera besides \"Peripatus\". The genus \"Peripatus\" is found in Central America, the Caribbean and northern South America.\n\nThe genus contains the following species:\n\n\"Peripatus antiguensis\" and \"Peripatus bavaysi\" are considered \"nomina dubia\" by Oliveira et al. 2012.\n"}
{"id": "11368372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11368372", "title": "Procession of the dead", "text": "Procession of the dead\n\nThey are various myths of processions of the dead, most related to the Wild Hunt. In Galicia and Asturias, it is known as Santa Compaña. The Benandanti in the Friuli participated to such processions.\n\nIn Hawaii, there are the Nightmarchers.\n"}
{"id": "2242471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242471", "title": "Property dualism", "text": "Property dualism\n\nProperty dualism describes a category of positions in the philosophy of mind which hold that, although the world is composed of just one kind of substance—the physical kind—there exist two distinct kinds of properties: physical properties and mental properties. In other words, it is the view that non-physical, mental properties (such as beliefs, desires and emotions) inhere in or supervene upon certain physical substances (namely brains). \n\nSubstance dualism, on the other hand, is the view that there exist in the universe two fundamentally different kinds of substance: physical (matter) and non-physical (mind or consciousness), and subsequently also two kinds of properties which adhere in those respective substances. Substance dualism thus has a much harder time with the mind-body problem. Both substance and property dualism are opposed to reductive physicalism.\n\nEmergentism is the idea that increasingly complex structures in the world give rise to the \"emergence\" of new properties that are something over and above (i.e. cannot be reduced to) their more basic constituents. The concept of emergence dates back to the late 19th century. John Stuart Mill notably argued for an emergentist conception of science in his 1843 \"System of Logic\".\n\nApplied to the mind/body relation, emergent materialism is another way of describing the non-reductive physicalist conception of the mind that asserts that when matter is organized in the appropriate way (i.e., organized in the way that living human bodies are organized), mental properties emerge.\n\nNon-reductive physicalism is the predominant contemporary form of property dualism according to which mental properties are mapped to neurobiological properties, but are not reducible to them. Non-reductive physicalism asserts that mind is not ontologically reducible to matter, in that an ontological distinction lies in the differences between the properties of mind and matter. It asserts that while mental states are physical in that they are caused by physical states, they are not ontologically reducible to physical states. No mental state is the same one thing as some physical state, nor is any mental state composed merely from physical states and phenomena. \n\nMost contemporary non-reductive physicalists subscribe to a position called anomalous monism (or something very similar to it). Unlike epiphenomenalism, which renders mental properties causally redundant, anomalous monists believe that mental properties make a causal difference to the world. The position was originally put forward by Donald Davidson in his 1970 paper \"Mental Events\", which stakes an identity claim between mental and physical tokens based on the notion of supervenience.\n\nAnother argument for non-reductive physicalism has been expressed by John Searle, who is the advocate of a distinctive form of physicalism he calls biological naturalism. His view is that although mental states are not ontologically reducible to physical states, they are causally reducible (see causality). He believes the mental will ultimately be explained through neuroscience. This worldview does not necessarily fall under \"property dualism\", and therefore does not necessarily make him a \"property dualist\". He has acknowledged that \"to many people\" his views and those of property dualists look a lot alike. But he thinks the comparison is misleading.\n\nEpiphenomenalism is a doctrine about mental-physical causal relations which holds that one or more mental states and their properties are the by-products (or epiphenomena) of the states of a closed physical system, and are not causally reducible to physical states (do not have any influence on physical states). According to this view mental properties are as such real constituents of the world, but they are causally impotent; while physical causes give rise to mental properties like sensations, volition, ideas, etc., such mental phenomena themselves cause nothing further - they are causal dead ends.\n\nThe position is credited to English biologist Thomas Huxley (Huxley 1874), who analogised mental properties to the whistle on a steam locomotive. The position found favour amongst scientific behaviourists over the next few decades, until behaviourism itself fell to the cognitive revolution in the 1960s. Recently, epiphenomenalism has gained popularity with those struggling to reconcile non-reductive physicalism and mental causation.\nIn the paper \"Epiphenomenal Qualia\" and later \"What Mary Didn't Know\" Frank Jackson made the so-called knowledge argument against physicalism. The thought experiment was originally proposed by Frank Jackson as follows:\n\nPanpsychism is the view that all matter has a mental aspect, or, alternatively, all objects have a unified center of experience or point of view. Superficially, it seems to be a form of property dualism, since\nit regards everything as having both mental and physical properties. However, some panpsychists say that mechanical behaviour is derived from the primitive mentality of atoms and molecules — as are sophisticated mentality and organic behaviour, the difference being attributed to the presence or absence of complex structure in a compound object. So long as the \"reduction\" of non-mental properties to mental ones is in place, panpsychism is not strictly a form of property dualism; otherwise it is. \nThomas Nagel posed the question What is it like to be a bat? Daniel Dennett, a critic of Nagel's argument, nevertheless called this paper \"the most widely cited and influential thought experiment about consciousness.\"\n\nIn more recent work, David Chalmers has revisited his formerly negative views concerning quantum-theories of consciousness, and expressed sympathy towards the idea that consciousness be identified with the collapse of the wave-function.\n\nKripke has a well-known argument for some kind of property dualism. Using the concept of rigid designators, he states that if dualism is logically possible, then it is the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "239456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239456", "title": "Quality function deployment", "text": "Quality function deployment\n\nQuality function deployment (QFD) is a method developed in Japan beginning in 1966 to help transform the voice of the customer into engineering characteristics for a product. Yoji Akao, the original developer, described QFD as a \"method to transform qualitative user demands into quantitative parameters, to deploy the functions forming quality, and to deploy methods for achieving the design quality into subsystems and component parts, and ultimately to specific elements of the manufacturing process.\" The author combined his work in quality assurance and quality control points with function deployment used in value engineering.\n\nThe house of quality, a part of QFD, is the basic design tool of quality function deployment. It identifies and classifies customer desires, identifies the importance of those desires, identifies engineering characteristics which may be relevant to those desires, correlates the two, allows for verification of those correlations, and then assigns objectives and priorities for the system requirements. This process can be applied at any system composition level (e.g. system, subsystem, or component) in the design of a product, and can allow for assessment of different abstractions of a system. The house of quality appeared in 1972 in the design of an oil tanker by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries.\nThe output of the house of quality is generally a matrix with customer desires on one dimension and correlated nonfunctional requirements on the other dimension. The cells of matrix table are filled with the weights assigned to the stakeholder characteristics where those characteristics are affected by the system parameters across the top of the matrix. At the bottom of the matrix, the column is summed, which allows for the system characteristics to be weighted according to the stakeholder characteristics. System parameters not correlated to stakeholder characteristics may be unnecessary to the system design and are identified by empty matrix columns, while stakeholder characteristics (identified by empty rows) not correlated to system parameters indicate \"characteristics not addressed by the design parameters\". System parameters and stakeholder characteristics with weak correlations potentially indicate missing information, while matrices with \"too many correlations\" indicate that the stakeholder needs may need to be refined.\n\nQFD is applied in a wide variety of services, consumer products, and military needs.\n\nThe concepts of fuzzy logic have been applied to QFD (\"Fuzzy QFD\" or \"FQFD\"). A review of 70 papers in 2013 by Abdolshah and Moradi found a number of conclusions: most FQFD \"studies were focused on quantitative methods\" to construct a house of quality matrix based on customer requirements, where the most-employed techniques were based on multiple-criteria decision analysis methods. They noted that there are factors other than the house of quality relevant to product development, and called metaheuristic methods \"a promising approach for solving complicated problems of FQFD.\"\n\nPugh concept selection can be used in coordination with QFD to select a promising product or service configuration from among listed alternatives.\n\nModular function deployment uses QFD to establish customer requirements and to identify important design requirements with a special emphasis on modularity. There are three main differences to QFD as applied in modular function deployment compared to house of quality: The benchmarking data is mostly gone; the checkboxes and crosses have been replaced with circles, and the triangular \"roof\" is missing.\n\n"}
{"id": "33061391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33061391", "title": "Raed al Atar", "text": "Raed al Atar\n\nRaed al Atar (1974–2014) was the commander of the Rafah company of the Hamas Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades and member of the Hamas high military council. According to the Congressional Research Service analyst Jim Zanotti, his command was important due to Rafah being the destination point for the smuggling tunnels from Egypt.\n\nIn 2010, al Atar reportedly held significant power and influence in the Gaza Strip, and asserted authority over the smuggling tunnels. He was the third most senior Hamas military commander, according to Israel.\n\nIn April 1995, al Atar was sentenced, following a quick trial by the Palestinian Authority court, to two years in jail for training with illegal weapons.\n\nOn 1 February 1999 a Palestinian police captain, Rifat Joudah, was killed in Gaza a shootout with al Atar and two other members of Hamas, as he was trying to arrest them. The men sped away, running over an 8-year-old girl, Fadwa Abu Jerwana, who died from her injuries. The men were subsequently arrested in the Shati refugee camp following a second exchange of fire with security forces. In April that year, al Atar was sentenced to death by the Palestinian Authority for the killing of Rifat Joudah. As soon as the death sentence was pronounced, al Atar's relatives took to the streets and stoned the Joudeh home. Violent protests in Gaza resulted in two deaths. Following the riots and criticism of the trial, Yasser Arafat met with civic leaders in Rafah and asked them to restore calm, promising to review the death sentence.\n\nIn 2006, al Atar directed the cross-border raid in which Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit was captured. He was also present during Shalit's release from captivity during the 2011 prisoner exchange.\n\nDuring the 2009 Gaza War, al Atar fled to el-Arīsh, Sinai, along with Mohammed Sanwar, a militant who had helped coordinate the abduction of an Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit. That year, al Atar told reporters that if Israel did not accept the Hamas' demands to free 1,450 Palestinian prisoners in exchange for Shalit, Hamas would kidnap more soldiers.\n\nReports surfaced that al Atar authorized the August 2010 firing of Grad-style rockets from the Sinai Peninsula at Eilat, Israel and Aqaba, Jordan. According to Palestinian sources, al Atar authorized the attack, with the approval of the Hamas leadership abroad, including Khaled Meshal, and with the backing of Iranian intelligence agents. According to some reports, the attack took place reportedly without the knowledge of his direct commander, Ahmed Jabari, while according to Egyptian officials, such an operation could not have been carried out without Jabari's approval.\n\nRaed al Atar was killed along with two other senior operatives of Hamas during an Israeli airstrike in Rafah on 21 August 2014, during the 2014 Israel-Gaza conflict.\n"}
{"id": "740618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=740618", "title": "Respiratory arrest", "text": "Respiratory arrest\n\nRespiratory arrest is caused by apnea (cessation of breathing) or respiratory dysfunction severe enough it will not sustain the body (such as agonal breathing). Prolonged apnea refers to a patient who has stopped breathing for a long period of time. If the heart muscle contraction is intact, the condition is known as respiratory arrest. An abrupt stop of pulmonary gas exchange lasting for more than five minutes may damage vital organs especially the brain, possibly permanently. Lack of oxygen to the brain causes loss of consciousness. Brain injury is likely if respiratory arrest goes untreated for more than three minutes, and death is almost certain if more than five minutes.\n\nDamage may be reversible if treated early enough. Respiratory arrest is a life-threatening medical emergency that requires immediate medical attention and management. To save a patient suffering from respiratory arrest, the goal is to restore adequate ventilation and prevent further damage. Management interventions include supplying oxygen, opening the airway, and means of artificial ventilation. In some instances, an impending respiratory arrest could be predetermined by signs the patient is showing, such as the increased work of breathing. Respiratory arrest will ensue once the patient depletes their oxygen reserves and loses the effort to breathe. \n\nRespiratory arrest can be used interchangeably with complete respiratory failure. The former refers to the complete cessation of breathing, while respiratory failure is the inability to provide adequate ventilation for the body’s requirements. However, both lead to death without intervention. Respiratory arrest is also different from cardiac arrest, the failure of heart muscle contraction. If untreated, one may lead to the other.\n\n\nOne common symptom of respiratory arrest is cyanosis, a bluish discoloration of the skin resulting from an inadequate amount of oxygen in the blood. If respiratory arrest remains without any treatment, cardiac arrest will occur within minutes of hypoxemia, hypercapnia or both. At this point, patients will be unconscious or about to become unconscious.\n\nA condition that frequently precedes respiratory arrest is respiratory distress, which is a gradual, subtle imbalance in patient response that can result in eventual respiratory failure and arrest. Symptoms of respiratory compromise can differ with each patient. Complications from respiratory compromise are increasing rapidly across the clinical spectrum, partly due to expanded use of opioids combined with the lack of standardized guidelines among medical specialties. While respiratory compromise creates problems that are often serious and potentially life-threatening, they are almost always preventable with the proper tools and approach. Appropriate patient monitoring and therapeutic strategies are necessary for early recognition, intervention and treatment.\n\nBefore respiratory arrest officially occurs, patients may experience some neurologic dysfunctions, such as feeling agitated, confused, and struggling to breathe. Tachycardia, sweating, intercostal retractions, and sternoclavicular retractions may occur as well. Patients who have an impaired central nervous system or respiratory muscle weakness may experience irregular patterns of respiration and feeble, gasping attempts to breathe. Patients who developed respiratory arrest from the cause of a foreign body in the airway may choke, call the attention of people nearby to their neck, and give out a harsh sound. By monitoring a patient’s oxygen and carbon dioxide levels, practitioners can prepare for ensuing respiratory arrests in patients. Infants that are under three months may develop respiratory arrest without any signs of warning and must be carefully taken care of. The development of respiratory arrest could come from infection, metabolism disorders, or respiratory fatigue. Another group of patients that should be on the watch list are asthmatics or patients with other chronic lung diseases. They can be become hypercapnic or tired after bouts of respiratory distress. These symptoms will lead to apnea without any signs of warning.\n\nDiagnosis requires clinical evaluation. If there was a foreign body obstructing the airway, the first option would be to locate the foreign body. The presence of a foreign body can be detected from resistance to ventilation from the mouth-to-mask or bag-valve-mask ventilation. The foreign body can be extracted during laryngoscopy for endotracheal intubation.\n\nThe first step to diagnosing patient is to clear and open the upper airway with correct head and neck positioning to determine the cause of respiratory arrest. The practitioner must lengthen and elevate the patient’s neck until the external auditory meatus is in the same plane as the sternum. The face should be facing the ceiling. The mandible should be positioned upwards by lifting the lower jaw and pushing the mandible upward. If a foreign body can be detected, the practitioner may remove it with a finger sweep of the oropharynx and suction. It is important that the practitioner does not cause the foreign body to be lodged even deeper into the patient’s body. Foreign bodies that are deeper into the patient’s body can be removed with Magill forceps or by suction. A Heimlick maneuver can also be used to dislodge the foreign body. The Heimlick maneuver consists of manual thrusts to the upper abdomen until the airway is clear. In conscious adults, the practitioner will stand behind the patient with arms around the patient’s midsection. One fist will be in a clenched formation while the other hand grabs the fist. Together, both hands will thrust inward and upward by pulling up with both arms.\n\nResistance to bag valve mask may suggest presence of a foreign body that is obstructing airways and commonly used as a diagnostic tool and treatment for respiratory arrest. The bag-valve-mask device has a self-inflating bag with a soft mask that rests on the face. When the bag is connected to an oxygen supply, the patient will receive 60 to 100% of inspired oxygen. The purpose of bag-valve-mask is to provide adequate temporary ventilation and allow the body to achieve airway control by itself. However, if the bag-valve-mask is left on for more than five minutes, air may be introduced into the stomach. At that point, a nasogastric tube should be inserted to take the accumulated air out. During this process, practitioners must carefully position and maneuver the bag-valve-mask in order to keep airways open. An oropharyngeal airway is used during bag-valve-mask ventilation to prevent oropharynx soft tissues from blocking the airway. An oropharyngeal airway may cause gagging and vomiting. Therefore, an oropharyngeal airway must be sized appropriately. It should be as long as distance between corner of patient’s mouth and angle of the jaw is calculated correctly. For children, pediatric bags can be used. Pediatric bags have a valve that limits peak airway pressures to around 35–40 cm of water. Practitioners must tweak valve settings to accurately determine each of their patients to avoid hypoventilation or hyperventilation.\n\nTreatment involves clearing the airway, establishing an alternate airway, and providing artificial ventilation that can include modes of mechanical ventilation. There are many ways to provide an airway and to deliver breathing support. The list below includes several options. \n\nThe laryngeal mask airway is a tube with an inflatable cuff. A laryngeal mask airway can be positioned in the lower oropharynx to prevent airway obstruction by soft tissues and to create a safe channel for ventilation. The laryngeal mask airway is the standard rescue ventilation when endotracheal intubation cannot be accomplished. To insert the laryngeal mask airway into the patient, the deflated mask should be pressed against the hard palate, rotated past the base of the tongue, and reaching the pharynx. Once the mask has been placed in the correct position, the mask can be inflated. Some benefits of the laryngeal mask airway include minimization of gastric inflation and protection against regurgitation. A potential problem the laryngeal mask airway poses is that over inflation will make the mask more rigid and less able to adapt to the patient’s anatomy, compressing the tongue and causing tongue edema. In that case, the mask pressure should be lowered or a larger mask size should be used. If non-comatose patients are given muscle relaxants before the insertion of the laryngeal mask airway, they may gag and aspirate when the drugs are worn off. At that point, the laryngeal mask airway should be removed immediately to eliminate the gag response and buy time to start at new alternative intubation technique.\n\nA tracheal tube is inserted into the trachea through the mouth or nose. Endotracheal tubes contain high-volume, low-pressure balloon cuffs to minimize air leakage and the risk of aspiration. Cuffed tubes were made originally for adults and children over 8 years old, but cuffed tubes have been used in infants and younger children to prevent air leakage. Cuffed tubes can be inflated to the extent needed to prevent air leakage. The endotracheal tube is a guaranteed mechanism to secure a compromised airway, limit aspiration, and bring about mechanical ventilation in comatose patients. The endotracheal tube is a great method for patients who are comatose, have an obstructed airway, or need mechanical ventilation. The endotracheal tube also allows suctioning of the lower respiratory tract. Drugs that can be inserted through the endotracheal tube during cardiac arrest are discouraged. Before intubation, patients need correct patient positioning and ventilation with 100% oxygen. The purpose of ventilation with 100% oxygen is to denitrogenate healthy patients and prolong the safe apneic time. Tubes with an internal diameter of over 8mm are acceptable for most adults. Insertion technique includes visualizing the epiglottis, the posterior laryngeal structure, and not passing the tube unless tracheal insertion is ensured.\n\nSurgical entry is required when the upper airway is obstructed by a foreign body, massive trauma has occurred, or if ventilation cannot be accomplished by any of the aforementioned methods. The requirement of the surgical airway is commonly known as the response to failed intubation. In comparison, surgical airways require 100 seconds to complete from incision to ventilation compared to laryngeal mask airways and other devices. During emergency cricothyrotomy, the patient lies on his back with neck extended and shoulders backward. The larynx is held in one hand by the practitioner while the other hand is holding a blade to incise the skin through the subcutaneous tissue and into the midline of the cricothyroid membrane to access the trachea. A hollow tube is used inserted into the trachea to keep the airway open. A tracheal hook is used to keep the space open and prevent retraction. Complications may include hemorrhage, subcutaneous emphysema, pneumomediastinum, and pneumothorax. Cricothyrotomy is used as emergency surgical access due to being fast and simple. Another surgical airway method is called tracheostomy. Tracheostomy is done in the operating room by a surgeon. This is the preferred method for patients requiring long-term ventilation. Tracheostomy uses skin puncture and dilators to insert the tracheostomy tube.\n\nPatients with respiratory arrest can be intubated without drugs. However, patients can be given sedating and paralytic drugs to minimize discomfort and help out with intubation. Pretreatment includes 100% oxygen, lidocaine, and atropine. 100% oxygen should be administered for 3 to 5 minutes. The time depends on pulse rate, pulmonary function, RBC count, and other metabolic factors. Lidocaine can be given in 1.5 mg/kg IV a few minutes before sedation and paralysis. The purpose of administering lidocaine is to blunt the sympathetic response of an increased heart rate, blood pressure, and intracranial pressure caused by laryngoscopy. Atropine can be given when children produce a vagal response, evidenced by bradycardia, in response to intubation. Some physicians even give out vecuronium, which is a neuromuscular blocker to prevent muscle fasciculations in patients over 4 years old. Fasciculations may result in muscle pain on awakening. Laryngoscopy and intubation are uncomfortable procedures, so etomidate may be delivered. Etomidate is a short-acting IV drug with sedative analgesic properties. The drug works well and does not cause cardiovascular depression. Ketamine is an anesthetic that may be used as well, but it may cause hallucinations or bizarre behavior upon awakening. Thiopental and methohexital may be used as well to provide sedation, but they tend to cause hypotension.\n\nThe purpose of mechanical ventilators is to deliver a constant volume, constant pressure, or a combination of both with each breath. Any given volume will correspond to a specific pressure on the pressure-volume curve and vice versa in any case. Settings on each mechanical ventilator may include respiratory rate, tidal volume, trigger sensitivity, flow rate, waveform, and inspiratory/expiratory ratio. The volume-cycled ventilation includes the volume-control function and delivers a set tidal volume. The pressure is not a fixed number but it varies with resistance and capacitance of the respiratory system. The volume-cycled ventilation is the simplest and most efficient of providing ventilation to a patient’s airway compared to other methods of mechanical ventilation. Each inspiratory effort that is beyond the set sensitivity threshold will be accounted for and fixed to the delivery of the corresponding tidal volume. If the patient does not breathe enough, then the volume-cycled ventilation will initiate a breath for the patient to bring up the breathing rate to the minimum respiratory rate. The synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation (SIMV) is a similar method of mechanical ventilation that also delivers breaths at a fixed rate and volume that corresponds to the patient’s breathing. Unlike the Volume-Cycled Ventilation, patient efforts above the fixed rate are unassisted in the synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation (SIMV).\n\nThe pressure-cycled ventilation includes pressure control ventilation and pressure support ventilation. Both methods offer a set inspiratory pressure. The tidal volume varies depending on the resistance and elastance of the respiratory system. Pressure-cycled ventilation can help alleviate symptoms in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome by limiting the distending pressure of the lungs. The pressure control ventilation is specifically a pressure-cycled form of assist-control ventilators. Assist-control ventilators describe a mode of ventilation that maintains a minimum respiratory rate regardless of whether or not the patient initiates a spontaneous breath. Each inspiratory effort that is beyond the sensitivity threshold delivers full pressures support for a fixed inspiratory time. There is maintenance of a minimum respiratory rate. In the pressure support ventilation, the minimum rate is not set. Instead, all breaths are triggered by the patient. The way that the pressure support ventilation works is by assisting the patient with a constant pressure until the patient’s inspiratory flow fallows below a threshold. The longer, deeper inspiratory flows by the patient will result in a larger tidal volume. This method of mechanical ventilation will help patients assume more work of breathing.\n\nNoninvasive positive pressure ventilation is the delivery of positive pressure ventilation through a tight-fitting mask that covers the nose and mouth. It assists patients who can spontaneously breathe. Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation delivers end-expiratory pressure with a volume control setting. There are two ways that noninvasive positive pressure ventilation can be delivered: continuous positive airway pressure or bilevel positive airway pressure. In continuous positive airway pressure, constant pressure is maintained throughout cycles of respiration with no additional inspiratory support. In bilevel positive airway pressure, both expiratory positive airway pressure and inspiratory positive airway pressure are set by the physician. Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation should not be administered to people who are hemodynamically unstable, gastric emptying impaired, bowel obstructed or pregnant. In these circumstances, swallowing large amounts of air will result in vomiting and possibly death. If frequent arrhythmias, myocardial ischemia and shock arrhythmias occur, practitioners should change delivery to endotracheal intubation or conventional mechanical ventilation. People who should not use noninvasive positive pressure ventilation include obtunded patients or ones with secretions. Noninvasive Positive Pressure Ventilation can be used in an outpatient setting for patients with obstructive sleep apnea.\n"}
{"id": "1448828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448828", "title": "Robotix", "text": "Robotix\n\nRobotix is a 1985 animated series based on the Milton Bradley toy of the same name. The original toy was of the construction type, similar to the Erector Set and K'Nex, that included motors, wheels, and pincers. The series follows the conflict between the peaceful Protectons and the warmongering Terrakors on the alien world of Skalorr, and a group of humans who get caught up in the conflict. It was produced by Sunbow Productions and Marvel Productions, and was animated in Japan by Toei Animation, which also animated other cartoons featured on \"Super Sunday\". It features background music also used for Transformers and though a kids cartoon it does have considerable violence even to humans.\n\n\n\n\nPursued by a battle cruiser, the starship of captain Exeter Galaxon crashes on the ruined planet of Skalorr and its occupants left for dead. However, the crew survives, only to immediately find themselves caught up in a battle between two factions of gigantic robot creatures - the Protectons and Terrakors - that emerge from the ground. While the Terrakors flee the scene, the Protectons befriend Galaxon and his crew, and help them rebuild their ship. During the repairs, Narra and Zarru discover that humans can interface with Robotix to enhance their abilities, while a renewed attack by the Terrakors forces Bront to put the new discovery to the test.\n\nInterfaced with Galaxon, Bront uses his new abilities to rescue Argus, who, interfaced with Tauron, helps him fend the Terrakors off. In the ensuing brief moment of peace, Argus takes the humans to the Protectons’ underground base, where the history of Skalorr is related by Compucore, the planet's central intelligence. Three million years prior, the organic, primate like race of the Protectons and lizard-like race Terrakors were forced to set aside their hostilities when their sun began to nova. While Nemesis planned to use Compucore to launch his ship, the Terrastarr, to transport a select few off the planet to safety, Compucore itself suggested the use of underground stasis tubes to preserve the entire population.\n\nThe tale of Skalorr's history continues, as the entire population of the planet seal themselves in stasis tubes. However, a radiation leak threatens their lives, and Compucore is forced to transfer and store their essences within itself. When the radiation levels finally subside to normal, millions of years later, Compucore transfers the essences of four Protectons and four Terrakors into the Robotix - giant machines created to rebuild Skalorr. The ensuing battle led into the current events.\n\nAs salvage and repair on the ship continues, Kanawk, Gaxon, Lupus and Nommo, dissatisfied with Galaxon's leadership, set out on their own to find the Terrastarr, and offer their services to the Terrakors.\n\nNemesis accepts Kanawk's offer, and the renegade humans and Terrakors interface. Shortly after the Protectons complete the construction of a new Robotix, infused with the essence of Kontor, a Protecton, the Terrakors stage a diversion to lure the Protectons out of their base. With the battle raging outside, Nemesis and Tyrannix penetrate the base and replace Kontor's essence with that of Venturak, a Terrakor, who then interfaces with another turncoat human, Traxis, and is appointed as a spy within the Protecton ranks. He reveals to the Terrakors that the humans’ food supply is dwindling, resulting in an attack on their ship and the theft of their remaining rations.\n\nRepairs on the human ship continue apace, and success is finally achieved. However, the Terrakors attack the Protectons just as Galaxon's crew blasts off. Helpless before the interfaced Terrakors, the Protectons are facing certain doom until Galaxon's crew return to save them — only to discover that the Terrakors stole their guidance system when they took their food. The humans crash land onto the planet.\n\nWith their interfaces restored, the Protectons fend off the Terrakors, but Galaxon's ship is now beyond repair, and the humans are still without food. Compucore releases probes to locate consumable vegetation, discovering an oasis that the humans and Protectons head for, while Argus and Venturak remain to guard Compucore. While the other Terrakors raze the oasis in an inferno, Nemesis invades the Protecton base with Venturak's help and captures Argus, erasing his essence.\n\nThe Protectons and humans at the oasis manage to survive by burrowing their way out, but Argus's failure to respond to his radio hailing prompts Bront to return to the base to investigate. Meanwhile, Nemesis infuses Argus's body with the essence of another Terrakor, Terragar, and they escape with Compucore. Bront pursues them, but is almost tricked by Terragar, posing as Argus, with the deception only being revealed by Lupus’ presence at the controls. Bront seizes Compucore and flees into the crystalline Desert of Illusions, but, one by one, the illusions are dispelled, leaving Bront staring down Terragar's cannon barrel.\n\nNarra and Jerrok come to Bront's aid, and the Terrakors flee, leaving Terragar's deactivated body behind. Compucore is able to restore Argus using a back-up copy of his essence, and the Protectons begin to search for their old city, Zanadon. At the same time, however, the Terrakors search for their own city, Terrakordia, and send Steggor to pursue the Protectons. The Terrakors then discover that it has been crushed by a glacier, and that the Terrastarr is nowhere to be found. Enraged, Tyrannix turns on Nemesis and claims leadership of the Terrakors for himself, heading off with Goon to join Steggor.\n\nMeanwhile, the Protectons seek to reactivate Zanadon, turning to Kontor, as he was responsible for creating the city. However, as his essence was replaced within the Robotix by Venturak, he sabotages the turbo flow generator and pins the blame on Bront when the generator threatens to explode and destroy the entire city.\n\nThe Protectons only just manage to escape Zanadon as Compucore seals the city's dome to contain the explosion to only one of its multiple sectors. The situation is made worse by Venturak, who implicates Bront as a traitor, forcing the other Protectons to imprison him until his innocence can be proved. In the ensuing confusion, Tyrannix and Goon attempt to once again steal Compucore, but Venturak fights back, fearing Nemesis’ wrath. Nemesis and Steggor then re-enter the fray, and Zarru frees Bront, who convinces the other Protectons he is not a traitor by helping them claim victory in the battle.\n\nExploring inside Zanadon, Zarru discovers an incomplete Robotix body that requires additional parts. Venturak directs the Protectons to a nearby factory that contains the parts they need, but unbeknownst to them, the Terrakors have already set up an ambush there.\n\nThe Protectons struggle against the factory's various machines, while Zarru and Flexor put together the unfinished Robotix as best they can. A distress call from Argus forces them to activate the new Robotix, infusing it with the essence of Boltar, a Protecton, who stomps to the aid of the captive Protectons and rescues them. However, Galaxon refuses to leave Zarru in order to be Boltar's pilot, and, instead, appoints Flexor, and in an effort to prove to Galaxon that he is skilled enough, Zarru sets out to locate the Terrakors.\n\nZarru crash lands somewhere in the icy tundra region of Skalorr, where the Terrakors have successfully located the Terrastarr submerged in a lake. As they attempt to reactivate the ship, the Protectons — running low on energy — set out searching for Zarru. Goon is given the unenviable job of launching the Terrastarr, and quickly loses control of the ship, burying it in an avalanche. Moving quickly, Zarru invades Goon's control capsule, but is thrown from it and rescued by the Protectons. The Terrakors are forced to flee due to their own depleting energy levels, and both factions head for Siliton Mountain to locate the crystals they need to recharge. However, the Terrakors have a head start, and stage a flash flood to wash the Protectons away.\n\nBoltar's bulk shields the Protectons from the flood, and they continue on their search for the crystals. However, both races are captured by a bizarre race of rock creatures, who also feed on the crystals. The creatures separate the humans from their Robotix partners, and imprison them in their subterranean realm within a volcano. As the humans watch, they see the rock creatures smelt their ship (it is unexplained how the ship that was back at the Protectons ended up being where everyone was being held hostage), and it soon becomes apparent that the Robotix are to share the same fate, with Jerrok going first.\n\nHeld captive in a pit by the rock creatures, the humans are threatened by a monstrous many eyed feline, which Galaxon uses to escape. Snatching a Siliton crystal, Galaxon recharges Jerrok, who saves himself and holds off the rock creatures while the humans recharge the other Robotix and interface with the nearest ones they can find. This leads to some unstable partnerships, as Argus ejects Gaxon from his cockpit for almost forcing him to kill a rock creature. Goon and Bront fuse into a battering ram that smashes open a path to freedom, but when Tyrannix opens fire on the rock creatures, he triggers the volcano, forcing all the Robotix and humans to partner up correctly to most efficiently save both themselves and the rock creatures from destruction. The rock creatures lead the Protectons to safety, but the Terrakors manage to survive on their own, and once again attack Zanadon, as Tyrannix buries the city in a rockslide.\n\nAfter brief concern from the Terrakors that the rockslide may have destroyed Compucore, Zanadon becomes airborne, and the Protectons try to move it out of reach. While Venturak and Compucore monitor city functions, the other Protectons explore various regions of the city. However, when Argus is attacked by Nemesis, he realises that “Kontor” has opened the city's dome to allow the Terrakors access. Tyrannix and Bront battle in the city's sporting stadium, while Steggor pursues Narra into the medical bay. Defeating Steggor, Narra discovers Venturak, the charade over, preparing to abscond with Compucore. No match for both Venturak and Tyrannix, Narra is defeated, and Nemesis and the Terrakors escape, with Compucore in their clutches. As the Protectons struggle to even close the city's domes without Compucore, the now-airborne Terrastarr soars overhead, and begins its attack.\n\nThe Terrastarr razes Zanadon, but in the ensuing conflagration, the Protectons attempt to penetrate the Terrastarr's hull. Nemesis directs the ship into space, into a nearby asteroid belt, knocking all but Argus and Narra off into the void. They smash their way into the ship, and Narra is quickly knocked off into space by Tyrannix, leaving Argus and Galaxon alone to face the assembled Terrakors. Struggling against the airless vacuum, Galaxon directs the Terrastarr toward a giant asteroid, then grapples with Kanawk, as Argus overcomes the Terrakors and comes to his aid, hurling Kanawk aside into the wall (This apparent death of a human is shown onscreen) and escaping from the ship with Exeter and Compucore as it crashes into the asteroid, exploding in a giant fireball.\n\nFloating in space, Argus is picked up by the other Protectons, who have survived by combining together. They return to the surface of Skalorr, and begin plans to rebuild their world, with help from the humans, who all agree to stay and help their new allies.\n\nBut in the void of space, Nemesis still lives ...\n\nIn 1987, the fifteen six-minute long shorts were compiled together and released on video as \"Robotix: The Movie\", a 90-minute feature film. Directed by Wally Burr, it was re-released on DVD on 28 July 2003 for Region 2 in the UK and Ireland.\nMarvel Comics also produced a single-issue comic book in February 1986, which roughly followed the storyline of the first three episodes of the series. A commercial for the comic was made and aired on Saturday mornings.\n\n"}
{"id": "13375281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13375281", "title": "SS Ismailia (1870)", "text": "SS Ismailia (1870)\n\nSS \"Ismailia\" was a British cargo and passenger ship of the Anchor Line which disappeared in the Atlantic Ocean in 1873.\n\nThe ship was built by the Robert Duncan & Co. shipyard in Port Glasgow, and was launched on 30 June 1870.\n\nShe sailed from New York City on 30 September 1873 carrying wheat and general cargo, with 52 people (44 crew and 8 passengers) aboard, en route for Glasgow. She was seen on 2 October, but then disappeared, and was never seen again.\n"}
{"id": "26891661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26891661", "title": "Saborios", "text": "Saborios\n\nSaborios or Saborius () was a Byzantine general who rose in revolt against Emperor Constans II (r. 641–668) in 667–668. He sought and obtained the aid of the Caliph Muawiyah I (r. 661–680), but was killed in a horse accident before confronting the imperial troops.\n\nSaborios is mentioned as being of Persian descent by Theophanes the Confessor (his name is a rendering of the Persian Shapur), but most modern scholars regard him an Armenian. He is sometimes identified with a certain Pasagnathes, \"\"patrikios\" of the Armenians\", who rebelled in 651/652.\n\nIn 667, Saborios was the governing general (\"strategos\") of the theme of the Armeniacs, covering the northeastern part of Byzantine Anatolia. At the time, and for several years, Emperor Constans II had been residing in Syracuse in Sicily, having left the capital Constantinople in the hands of his young son, co-emperor, and eventual successor, Constantine IV (r. 668–685). In the emperor's absence, Caliph Muawiyah had sent a series of devastating raids into Anatolia, targeting chiefly the Armeniac theme.\n\nTaking advantage of the absence of many soldiers of the other themes with Constans in Sicily, Saborios launched a revolt in late 667. In order to secure his rear, he sent one of his generals, Sergios, to Damascus to enlist Muawiyah's support. Constantine, learning of the rebellion, also sent an envoy, the eunuch \"koubikoularios\" Andrew, to the caliph. Andrew, however, could not match the rebel's offer of a heavy tribute (\"the entire public revenues\" according to Theophanes) and Muawiyah agreed to support Saborios with troops. Despite this setback, Andrew arranged for Sergios, who had insulted him during the negotiations, to be captured at a pass near Arabissus in Cilicia by troops loyal to the emperor. Sergios was then castrated and impaled on a stake. \n\nNevertheless, with his eastern flank secure, Saborios marched west towards Constantinople, and succeeded in gaining control over most of Anatolia. He camped with his men at Hexapolis, also known as Hadrianopolis, in Bithynia, where he drilled his troops and awaited the arrival of the Arab army. Saborios was readying his men to face an oncoming loyalist army under the \"patrikios\" Nikephoros, when his horse bolted, slamming his head on a city gate and killing him. The Armeniac troops, left leaderless, quickly submitted, and by the time the Arab troops arrived, the revolt was effectively over. The Arab army used the turmoil to raid as far as the Bosporus and capture Amorion, but the city was retaken by the Byzantines during the following winter.\n\nSaborios's rebellion did not result in any territorial losses for Byzantium, but was important nonetheless as the first attested rebellion of a thematic force, heralding a number of similar revolts during the remainder of the 7th and throughout the 8th centuries. Despite the continued occurrence of revolts, however, Saborios's fate also encouraged a belief, oft-repeated in Byzantine and Syriac sources, that death would result from rebelling against the lawful emperor in Constantinople, and from dealing with the infidel Muslims.\n"}
{"id": "33738116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33738116", "title": "Shambhala: The Sacred Path of the Warrior", "text": "Shambhala: The Sacred Path of the Warrior\n\nShambhala: The Sacred Path of the Warrior is a book concerning the Shambhala Buddhist vision of founder Chögyam Trungpa. The book discusses addressing personal and societal problems through the application of secular concepts such as basic goodness, warriorship, bravery, and egolessness as a means toward the creation of what he calls \"enlightened society\". Shambhala vision is described as a nonreligious approach rooted in meditation and accessible to individuals of any, or no, religion. In Shambhala terms, it is possible, moment by moment, for individuals to establish enlightened society. \n\n"}
{"id": "17564955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17564955", "title": "Smiley face murder theory", "text": "Smiley face murder theory\n\nThe Smiley face murder theory (variations include Smiley face murders, Smiley face killings, Smiley face gang, and others) is a theory advanced by two retired New York City detectives, Kevin Gannon and Anthony Duarte, that a number of young men found dead in bodies of water across several Midwestern American states over the last decade did not accidentally drown, as concluded by law enforcement agencies, but were victims of a serial killer or killers. The term \"smiley face\" became connected to the alleged murders when it was made public that the police had discovered graffiti depicting a smiley face near locations where they think the killer dumped the bodies in at least a dozen of the cases. The response of law enforcement investigators and other experts to Gannon and Duarte's theory has been largely skeptical.\n\nAs recently as 2008, Gannon and Duarte were examining evidence going back to the late 1990s that they believe connects the deaths of 45 college-age males, whose dead bodies were found in water in 11 states, often after leaving parties or bars where\nthey were drinking. The men, according to the former detectives, often fit a profile of being popular, athletic, and good students, and most were white.\n\nGannon and Duarte have theorized that the young men were all murdered, either by an individual or by an organized group of killers. The term \"smiley face\" became connected to the alleged murders when it was made public that Gannon and Duarte had discovered graffiti depicting a smiley face near locations where they think the killer dumped the bodies in at least a dozen of the cases.\n\nOther police forces that have investigated the deaths dispute the conclusion that the cases are linked. The La Crosse, Wisconsin, police department, which was in charge of eight of the investigations, released an official statement reiterating their original conclusions that the deaths were accidental drownings of inebriated men and stating that no smiley face symbols were found in connection with any of these cases. The Center for Homicide Research in Minneapolis, Minnesota, published a research brief that also attempted to scientifically refute the theory. In March 2009, Lee Gilbertson, a criminal justice faculty member at St. Cloud State University, voiced his support for the theory on an episode of \"Larry King Live\" in which the alleged murders were discussed.\n\nCriminal profiler Pat Brown calls the serial killer theory \"ludicrous\", arguing that the evidence does not fit what is known about serial killers. Brown also believes that the smiley face images found in some of the cases are likely nothing more than coincidences based upon making a guess at where the body entered the water and searching a wide area until an example of smiley face graffiti can be found. \"It's not an unusual symbol,\" she told Matt Smith of the Minneapolis-based newspaper \"City Pages\". \"If you look in any area five miles square, I bet you could find a smiley face.\"\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has issued the following statement:\n\nRuben Rosario of the Pioneer Press questions the motives of Kevin Gannon. He states that Gannon has failed to provide any factual evidence that a group of killers exists, and that others, like reporter Kristi Piehl (the original reporter of Gannon and Duarte's theory), and some of the parents of the young men, who were at first encouraged by Gannon, now wonder if he is not actually hurting the families who are trying to get over the loss of a child. One of the parents, Bill Szostak, and Rosario even speculate that Gannon is out for either money or the notoriety and press attention. Another parent, Kathy Geib, is working with Piehl and others, but their main goal now is just to get police to take a compulsory second look at cases of alcohol-related drownings.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "30591813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30591813", "title": "Tribble", "text": "Tribble\n\nTribbles are a fictional alien species in the \"Star Trek\" universe. They were conceived by screenwriter David Gerrold, and first appeared in a 1967 episode titled \"The Trouble with Tribbles\". They are depicted as a small, furry, gentle, attractive, and slow-moving but rapidly-reproducing invasive species. Though appearing infrequently on-screen, they have become a popular feature of the \"Star Trek\" universe, featuring in their own eponymous official card game, and even lending their name to a family of proteins which are associated with the biology of the fruit fly.\n\nTribbles were first shown in an episode of the second season of the original series, \"The Trouble With Tribbles\" (1967). They have appeared in several subsequent series, as well as in a number of \"Star Trek\" feature films, and in video games such as \"\".\nAccording to Star Trek canon, tribbles are native to the planet Iota Geminorum IV. They appear as small bundles of fur with no other visible features. Their coloring ranges from white and grey to black, as well as speckled brown, yellow and orange. According to Dr. Leonard McCoy's dialogue, their only two purposes in life appear to be to eat and to reproduce, and they perform both of these functions exceptionally well. McCoy concludes that tribbles use over 50% of their metabolism for reproduction and that they are born pregnant.\n\nDue to their tendency to over-populate, Starfleet considers tribbles to be dangerous organisms and forbids their transportation. A creature genetically engineered to hunt tribbles was introduced in the animated episode \"More Tribbles, More Troubles\" (1973). The Klingons, in whose presence tribbles produce a convulsive, shrieking reaction, consider them \"mortal enemies\", as stated in the \"\" episode \"Trials and Tribble-ations\" (1996).\n\nDavid Gerrold has said that his original idea for tribbles was based on the well-known problems associated with the overpopulation of rabbits in Australia. He wanted a creature prop that would be cheap to produce, and took inspiration from a ball of pink fuzz attached to a key ring. The name for tribbles was originally \"fuzzies,\" but to avoid confusion with the H. Beam Piper novel \"Little Fuzzy,\" Gerrold brainstormed some nonsense words, arriving at \"tribble\".\n\nGerrold was concerned that he might have inadvertently plagiarized a similar creature from Robert A. Heinlein's novel \"The Rolling Stones\" (1952). These concerns were brought up by a research team, who suggested purchasing the rights to the novel. When contacted, Heinlein asked only for a signed copy of the script and later sent a note to Gerrold to thank him.\n\n"}
{"id": "142615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142615", "title": "William Godwin", "text": "William Godwin\n\nWilliam Godwin (3 March 1756 – 7 April 1836) was an English journalist, political philosopher and novelist. He is considered one of the first exponents of utilitarianism and the first modern proponent of anarchism. Godwin is most famous for two books that he published within the space of a year: \"An Enquiry Concerning Political Justice\", an attack on political institutions, and \"Things as They Are; or, The Adventures of Caleb Williams\", an early mystery novel which attacks aristocratic privilege. Based on the success of both, Godwin featured prominently in the radical circles of London in the 1790s. He wrote prolifically in the genres of novels, history and demography throughout his lifetime.\n\nIn the conservative reaction to British radicalism, Godwin was attacked, in part because of his marriage to the pioneering feminist writer Mary Wollstonecraft in 1797 and his candid biography of her after her death from childbirth. Their daughter, later known as Mary Shelley, would go on to write \"Frankenstein\" and marry the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley. With his second wife, Mary Jane Clairmont, Godwin set up The Juvenile Library, allowing the family to write their own works for children (sometimes using \"noms de plume\") and translate and publish many other books, some of enduring significance. Godwin has had considerable influence on British literature and literary culture.\n\nGodwin was born in Wisbech in Cambridgeshire, to John and Anne Godwin. Godwin's family on both sides were middle-class. Godwin's parents adhered to a strict form of Calvinism. Godwin was the seventh of his parent's thirteen children. Godwin's mother came from a wealthy family but due to her uncle's frivolities the family wealth was squandered. Fortunately for the family her father was a successful merchant involved in the Baltic Sea trade. Godwin's father, a Nonconformist minister in Guestwick in Norfolk, died young, and never inspired love or much regret in his son; but in spite of wide differences of opinion, tender affection always subsisted between William Godwin and his mother, until her death at an advanced age.\n\nWilliam Godwin was educated for his father's profession at Hoxton Academy, where he studied under Andrew Kippis the biographer, and Dr Abraham Rees of the \"Cyclopaedia\". At the age of 11, he became the sole pupil of Samuel Newton, a strict hyper-Calvinist, who was a Sandemanian, a disciple of Robert Sandeman. Godwin later characterised Newton as, \"... a celebrated north country apostle, who, after Calvin damned ninety-nine in a hundred of mankind, has contrived a scheme for damning ninety-nine in a hundred of the followers of Calvin.\"\n\nHe then acted as a minister at Ware, Stowmarket and Beaconsfield. At Ware the teachings of the French philosophers were brought before him by a friend, Joseph Fawcett, who held strong republican opinions. Godwin came to London in 1782, still nominally as a minister, to regenerate society with his pen – a real enthusiast, who never shrank from conclusions of the premises which he laid down. He adopted the principles of the Encyclopédistes, and his own aim was the complete overthrow of all existing political, social and religious institutions. He believed, however, that calm discussion was the only thing needful to carry every change, and from the beginning to the end of his career he deprecated every approach to violence.\n\nHis first published work was an anonymous \"Life of Lord Chatham\" (1783). He published under his own name \"Sketches of History\" (1784), consisting of six sermons on the characters of Aaron, Hazael and Jesus, in which, though writing in the character of an orthodox Calvinist (Godwin himself had become an atheist), his character enunciates the proposition \"God Himself has no right to be a tyrant.\" Introduced by Andrew Kippis, he began to write in 1785 for the \"New Annual Register\" and other periodicals, producing also three novels now forgotten. His main contributions for the \"Annual Register\" were the \"Sketches of English History\" he wrote annually, which were yearly summaries of domestic and foreign political affairs. He joined a club called the Revolutionists, and associated much with Lord Stanhope, Horne Tooke and Holcroft.\n\nGodwin first met Mary Wollstonecraft at the home of their mutual publisher. Joseph Johnson was hosting a dinner for another of his authors, Thomas Paine, and Godwin remarked years later that on that evening he heard too little of Paine and too much of Wollstonecraft; he did not see her again for some years. In the interim, Wollstonecraft went to live in France to witness the Revolution for herself, and had a child, Fanny Imlay, with an American adventurer named Gilbert Imlay. In pursuit of Gilbert Imlay's business affairs, Wollstonecraft travelled to Scandinavia, and soon afterwards published a book based on the voyage. Godwin read it, and later wrote that \"If ever there was a book calculated to make a man in love with its author, this appears to me to be the book.\"\n\nWhen Godwin and Wollstonecraft were reintroduced in 1796, their respect for each other soon grew into friendship, sexual attraction, and love. Once Wollstonecraft became pregnant, they decided to marry so that their child would be legitimate. Their marriage revealed the fact that Wollstonecraft had never been married to Imlay, and as a result she and Godwin lost many friends. Godwin received further criticism because he had advocated the abolition of marriage in \"Political Justice\". After their marriage at St Pancras on 29 March 1797, they moved into two adjoining houses in Somers Town so that they could both still retain their independence; they often communicated by notes delivered by servants.\n\nMary Wollstonecraft Godwin was born in Somers Town on 31 August 1797, the couple's only child. Godwin had hoped for a son and had been planning on naming the child \"William.\" On 10 September 1797 Wollstonecraft died of complications following the birth. By all accounts, it had been a happy and stable, though brief, relationship. Now Godwin, who had been a bachelor until a few months before, was distraught at the loss of the love of his life. Simultaneously, he became responsible for the care of these two young girls, the newborn Mary and toddler Fanny.\n\nWhen Mary was three, Godwin left his daughters in the care of James Marshall while he travelled to Ireland. Godwin's tone in his letters demonstrates how much he cared about them. His letters show the stress he placed on giving his two daughters a sense of security. \"And now what shall I say for my poor little girls? I hope they have not forgot me. I think of them every day, and should be glad, if the wind was more favourable, to blow them a kiss a-piece from Dublin to the Polygon.. but I have seen none that I love so well or think half so good as my own.\"\n\nIn 1801 Godwin married his neighbour Mary Jane Clairmont. She brought two of her own children into the household, Charles and Claire. Journalist H.N. Brailsford wrote in 1913, \"She was a vulgar and worldly woman, thoroughly feminine, and rather inclined to boast of her total ignorance of philosophy.\" While Fanny eventually learned to live with Clairmont, Mary's relationship with her stepmother was tense. Mary writes, \"As to Mrs Godwin, something very analogous to disgust arises whenever I mention her\", \"A woman I shudder to think of\".\n\nIn 1805 the Godwins set up a shop and publishing house called the Juvenile Library, significant in the history of children's literature. Through this, Godwin wrote children's primers on Biblical and classical history, and using the pseudonym \"Edward Baldwin\", he wrote a variety of books for children, including a version of Jack and the Beanstalk, and a biography of the Irish artist William Mulready, who illustrated works for them. They kept alive family ties, publishing the first book by Margaret King (then Lady Mount Cashell), who had been a favoured pupil of Mary Wollstonecraft. They published works never since out of print, such as Charles and Mary Lamb's \"Tales from Shakespeare\". The Juvenile Library also translated European authors. The first English edition of \"Swiss Family Robinson\" was translated (from the French, not the German) and edited by them. The business was the family's mainstay for decades.\n\nGodwin was responsible for a family of five children, none of whom had the same two parents. Although he raised them with his second wife, the ghost of Mary Wollstonecraft hovered over the family, as evidenced by the John Opie portrait to which Godwin gave pride of place in his study.\n\nThe eldest was Fanny Imlay (1794–1816), who committed suicide as a young woman. Charles Gaulis Clairmont ended up as Chair of English literature at Vienna University and taught sons of the royal family; news of his sudden death in 1849 distressed Maximilian. Mary Godwin (1797–1851) gained fame as Mary Shelley, author of \"Frankenstein\". Half a year younger than her was Claire Clairmont, Mary Jane's only daughter, to whom she showed favouritism. The youngest, and the only child of the second marriage, was William Godwin the Younger (1803 – 1832). Godwin sent him first to Charterhouse School and then to various other establishments of a practical bent. Nonetheless, he eventually earned his living by the pen. He died at 29, leaving the manuscript of a novel, which Godwin saw into print. All of Godwin's children who lived into adulthood worked as writers or educators, carrying on his legacy and that of his wives. Only two of them had children who in turn survived: Percy Florence Shelley, and the son and daughter of Charles. Godwin did not welcome the birth of Allegra Byron, but Claire's only child died aged five.\n\nGodwin had high hopes for Mary, giving her a more rigorous intellectual experience than most women of her period, and describing her as \"very intelligent.\" He wished to give his daughter a more \"masculine education\" and prepared her to be a writer. However, Godwin withdrew his support as Mary became a woman and pursued her relationship with Percy Shelley. Mary's first two novels, \"Frankenstein\" and \"Mathilda\", may be seen as a reaction to her childhood. Both explore the role of the father in the child's socialisation and the control the father has on the child's future. Shelley's last two novels, \"Lodore\" and \"Falkner\", re-evaluate the father-daughter relationship. They were written at a time when Shelley was raising her only surviving child alone and supporting her ageing father. In both novels, the daughter eludes the father's control by giving him the traditional maternal figure he asks for. This relationship gives the daughter control of the father.\n\nGodwin was awarded a sinecure position as Office Keeper and Yeoman Usher of the Receipt of the Exchequer, which came with grace and favour accommodation within the Palace of Westminster.\n\nIn later years, Godwin came to expect maternal support and consolation from his daughter. Two of the five children he had raised had pre-deceased him, and two more lived abroad. Mary responded to his expectations and she cared for him until he died in 1836. He was buried next to Mary Wollstonecraft in the churchyard of St Pancras, where they had married. His second wife outlived him, and eventually was buried there too. The three share a gravestone. In the 1850s, Wollstonecraft and Godwin's remains were moved to Bournemouth, to the family tomb of the Shelleys.\n\nIn 1793, while the French Revolution was in full swing, Godwin published his great work on political science, \"Enquiry concerning Political Justice, and its Influence on General Virtue and Happiness\". The first part of this book was largely a recap of Edmund Burke's \"A Vindication of Natural Society\" – an anarchist critique of the state. Godwin acknowledged the influence of Burke for this portion. The rest of the book is Godwin's positive vision of how an anarchist (or minarchist) society might work. \"Political Justice\" was extremely influential in its time: after the writings of Burke and Paine, Godwin's was the most popular written response to the French Revolution. Godwin's work was seen by many as illuminating a middle way between the fiery extremes of Burke and Paine. Prime Minister William Pitt famously said that there was no need to censor it, because at over £1 it was too costly for the average Briton to buy. However, as was the practice at the time, numerous \"corresponding societies\" took up \"Political Justice\", either sharing it or having it read to the illiterate members. Eventually, it sold over 4000 copies and brought literary fame to Godwin.\n\nGodwin augmented the influence of \"Political Justice\" with the publication of a novel that proved equally popular, \"Things as They Are; or, The Adventures of Caleb Williams\". This tells the story of a servant who finds out a dark secret about Falkland, his aristocratic master, and is forced to flee because of his knowledge. \"Caleb Williams\" is essentially the first thriller: Godwin wryly remarked that some readers were consuming in a night what took him over a year to write. Not the least of its merits is a portrait of the justice system of England and Wales at the time and a prescient picture of domestic espionage. His literary method, as he described it in the introduction to the novel, also proved influential: Godwin began with the conclusion of Caleb being chased through Britain, and developed the plot backwards. Dickens and Poe both commented on Godwin's ingenuity in doing this.\n\nIn response to a treason trial of some of his fellow British Jacobins, among them Thomas Holcroft, Godwin wrote \"Cursory Strictures on the Charge Delivered by Lord Chief Justice Eyre to the Grand Jury, 2 October 1794\" in which he forcefully argued that the prosecution's concept of \"constructive treason\" allowed a judge to construe \"any\" behaviour as treasonous. It paved the way for a major, but mostly moral, victory for the Jacobins, as they were acquitted.\n\nHowever, Godwin's own reputation was eventually besmirched after 1798 by the conservative press, in part because he chose to write a candid biography of his late wife, Mary Wollstonecraft, entitled \"Memoirs of the Author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\", including accounts of her two suicide attempts and her affair (before her relationship with Godwin) with the American adventurer Gilbert Imlay, which resulted in the birth of Fanny Imlay.\n\nGodwin, consistent in his theory and stubborn in his practice, practically lived in secret for 30 years because of his reputation. However, in its influence on writers such as Shelley, who read the work on multiple occasions between 1810 and 1820, and Kropotkin, \"Political Justice\" takes its place with Milton's \"Areopagitica\" and Rousseau's \"\" as a defining anarchist and libertarian text.\n\nBy the words \"political justice\" the author meant \"the adoption of any principle of morality and truth into the practice of a community,\" and the work was therefore an inquiry into the principles of society, government, and morals. For many years Godwin had been \"satisfied that monarchy was a species of government unavoidably corrupt,\" and from desiring a government of the simplest construction, he gradually came to consider that \"government by its very nature counteracts the improvement of original mind,\" demonstrating anti-statist beliefs that would later be considered anarchist.\n\nBelieving in the perfectibility of the race, that there are no innate principles, and therefore no original propensity to evil, he considered that \"our virtues and our vices may be traced to the incidents which make the history of our lives, and if these incidents could be divested of every improper tendency, vice would be extirpated from the world.\" All control of man by man was more or less intolerable, and the day would come when each man, doing what seems right in his own eyes, would also be doing what is in fact best for the community, because all will be guided by principles of pure reason.\n\nSuch optimism was combined with a strong empiricism to support Godwin's belief that the evil actions of men are solely reliant on the corrupting influence of social conditions, and that changing these conditions could remove the evil in man. This is similar to the ideas of his wife, Mary Wollstonecraft, concerning the shortcomings of women as due to discouragement during their upbringing.\n\nPeter Kropotkin remarked of Godwin that when \"speaking of property, he stated that the rights of every one 'to every substance capable of contributing to the benefit of a human being' must be regulated by justice alone: the substance must go 'to him who most wants it'. His conclusion was communism.\"\n\nIn 1798, Thomas Robert Malthus wrote \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\" in response to Godwin's views on the \"perfectibility of society.\" Malthus wrote that populations are inclined to increase in times of plenty, and that only distress, from causes such as food shortages, disease, or war, serves to stem population growth. Populations in his view are therefore always doomed to grow until distress is felt, at least by the poorer segment of the society. Consequently, poverty was felt to be an inevitable phenomenon of society.Let us imagine for a moment Mr. Godwin's beautiful system of equality realized in its utmost purity, and see how soon this difficulty might be expected to press under so perfect a form of society... Let us suppose all the causes of misery and vice in this island removed. War and contention cease. Unwholesome trades and manufactories do not exist. Crowds no longer collect together in great and pestilent cities... Every house is clean, airy, sufficiently roomy, and in a healthy situation... And the necessary labours of agriculture are shared amicably among all. The number of persons, and the produce of the island, we suppose to be the same as at present. The spirit of benevolence, guided by impartial justice, will divide this produce among all the members of the society according to their wants...With these extraordinary encouragements to population, and every cause of depopulation, as we have supposed, removed, the numbers would necessarily increase faster than in any society that has ever yet been known...\n\nMalthus went on to argue that under such ideal conditions, the population could conceivably double every 25 years. However, the food supply could not continue doubling at this rate for even 50 years. The food supply would become inadequate for the growing population, and then:...the mighty law of self-preservation expels all the softer and more exalted emotions of the soul... The corn is plucked before it is ripe, or secreted in unfair proportions; and the whole black train of vices that belong to falsehood are immediately generated. Provisions no longer flow in for the support of the mother with a large family. The children are sickly from insufficient food... No human institutions here existed, to the perverseness of which Mr. Godwin ascribes the original sin of the worst men. No opposition had been produced by them between public and private good. No monopoly had been created of those advantages which reason directs to be left in common. No man had been goaded to the breach of order by unjust laws. Benevolence had established her reign in all hearts: and yet in so short a period as within fifty years, violence, oppression, falsehood, misery, every hateful vice, and every form of distress, which degrade and sadden the present state of society, seem to have been generated by the most imperious circumstances, by laws inherent in the nature of man, and absolutely independent of it human regulations.\n\nIn \"Political Justice\" Godwin had acknowledged that an increase in the standard of living as he envisioned could cause population pressures, but he saw an obvious solution to avoiding distress: \"project a change in the structure of human action, if not of human nature, specifically the eclipsing of the desire for sex by the development of intellectual pleasures\". In the 1798 version of his essay, Malthus specifically rejected this possible change in human nature. In the second and subsequent editions, however, he wrote that widespread \"moral restraint,\" i.e., postponement of marriage and pre-nuptial celibacy (sexual abstinence), could reduce the tendency of a population to grow until distress was felt.\".\nGodwin also saw new technology as being partly responsible for the future change in human nature into more intellectually developed beings. He reasoned that increasing technological advances would lead to a decrease in the amount of time individuals spent on production and labour, and thereby, to more time spent on developing \"their intellectual and moral faculties\". Instead of population growing exponentially, Godwin believed that this moral improvement would outrun the growth of population. Godwin pictured a social utopia where society would reach a level of sustainability and engage in \"voluntary communism\".\n\nIn 1820, Godwin published \"Of Population: An Enquiry Concerning the Power of Increase in the Numbers of Mankind\" as a rebuttal to Malthus' essays. Godwin's main argument was against Malthus' notion that population tends to grow exponentially. Godwin believed that for population to double every twenty-five years (as Malthus had asserted had occurred in the United States, due to the expanse of resources available there), every married couple would have to have at least eight children, given the rate of childhood deaths. Godwin himself was one of thirteen children, but he did not observe the majority of couples in his day having eight children. He therefore concluded:In reality, if I had not taken up the pen with the express purpose of confuting all the errors of Mr Malthus's book, and of endeavouring to introduce other principles, more cheering, more favourable to the best interests of mankind, and better prepared to resist the inroads of vice and misery, I might close my argument here, and lay down the pen with this brief remark, that, when this author shall have produced from any country, the United States of North America not excepted, a register of marriages and births, from which it shall appear that there are on an average eight births to a marriage, then, and not till then, can I have any just reason to admit his doctrine of the geometrical ratio.\n\nIn his first edition of \"Political Justice\" Godwin included arguments favouring the possibility of \"earthly immortality\" (what would now be called Physical Immortality), but later editions of the book omitted this topic. Although the belief in such a possibility is consistent with his philosophy regarding perfectibility and human progress, he probably dropped the subject because of political expedience when he realised that it might discredit his other views. Godwin explored the themes of life extension and immortality in his gothic novel \"St. Leon\", which became popular (and notorious) at the time of its publication in 1799, but is now mostly forgotten. \"St. Leon\" may have provided inspiration for his daughter's novel \"Frankenstein\".\n\n\n\n"}
