{"id": "37603924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37603924", "title": "15 Amore", "text": "15 Amore\n\n15 Amore is a 1998 Australian film directed by Maurice Murphy and starring Lisa Hensley and Steve Bastoni.\n\nIn World War Two Australia, Italian POWs Alfredo (Steve Bastoni) and Joseph (Domenic Galati) are billeted with Dorothy (Lisa Hensley) and her three little children, while Dorothy's husband is fighting at the front. Also living with them are Jewish German refugees Frau Guttman (Gertaud Ingeborg) and her shy daughter Rachel (Tara Jakszewicz). \n\nThe Italian soldiers become housekeepers and arms length friends, but Frau Guttman cannot reconcile herself to the place or the culture. \n\nA secret romance begins between Joseph and Rachel, leading to bitterness and drama at the otherwise calm outback home.\n"}
{"id": "46248131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46248131", "title": "Against the Grain: More Meat Than Wheat", "text": "Against the Grain: More Meat Than Wheat\n\nAgainst the Grain is a 1981 Australian film.\n\n"}
{"id": "39216381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39216381", "title": "All I Wanna Do (1998 film)", "text": "All I Wanna Do (1998 film)\n\nAll I Wanna Do (originally titled The Hairy Bird) is a 1998 comedy film written and directed by Sarah Kernochan. It stars Kirsten Dunst, Gaby Hoffman, Monica Keena, Heather Matarazzo and Rachael Leigh Cook in an ensemble cast as students of the fictional Miss Godard's Preparatory School for Girls, and Lynn Redgrave as the school's headmistress. The film takes place in 1963 and focuses on several students' plotting and sabotage of a proposed merger for the school to go coed.\n\nOriginally titled \"The Hairy Bird\", the film's screenplay, set in 1963, is based loosely on Kernochan's experiences at Rosemary Hall around that time. Filming was done in Toronto, Ontario, Canada at the Trafalgar Castle School in Whitby. The song \"The Hairy Bird\" plays during the film's end credits; it was written by Kernochan and sung by a group which includes Kernochan and five of her Rosemary Hall classmates, including Glenn Close.\n\nThe film was released in September 1998 in the United States under the title \"All I Wanna Do\", as its American distributor, Miramax Films, found the original title too offensive. In Canada, it was released under the title \"Strike!\".\n\nIn the fall of 1963 in New England, Odette \"Odie\" Sinclair is forcibly transferred by her parents to Miss Godard's Preparatory School for Girls after her parents find out that she has planned to have sex with her boyfriend, Dennis. Upon arrival to the school, which is run by the stern but kind headmistress Miss McVane, Odette is introduced to her roommates, the intelligent and charismatic Verena von Stefan and the promiscuous Tinka Parker. Verena and Tinka are the school's primary troublemakers; both mock an uptight hall monitor named Abigail \"Abby\" Sawyer, who has a penchant for tattletaling, and Verena regularly buys cigarettes from a lunch cook and is constantly late for classes.\n\nAfter a brief hazing period, Odie is welcomed into the D.A.R. (Daughters of the American Ravioli), a club of several girls at the school who have greater aspirations than those of their peers; the members congregate in the school's attic, where they have access to canned ravioli stored above the cafeteria. The club is led by Verena, and consists of several other girls, including Theresa \"Tweety\" Goldberg, a bulimic who self-induces vomiting by drinking ipecac syrup and plans to be a child psychologist; and Maureen \"Momo\" Haines, a well-spoken science nerd and aspiring biologist. Verena has plans to start a fashion magazine like \"Vogue\", while Tinka plans to be an \"actress-folk singer-slut\". Odette declares her interest in politics, but pines to finish what she started with Dennis and lose her virginity.\n\nThe D.A.R. begins planning a rendezvous for Odie and Dennis, but when it is discovered that Miss Godard's is considering going co-ed with the nearby St. Ambrose boys' academy, the girls become divided on the matter and ultimately the club breaks up, leaving Verena and Momo to plan a sabotage for an upcoming dance with the St. Ambrose boys. Meanwhile, the board of trustees for the school, which include Abby's parents, deliberates on the matter. Miss McVane detests the merger, but can do little about it because of the school's financial problems.\n\nAs the St. Ambrose dance arrives, Verena and Momo concoct a plan to cast the boys' academy in a bad light, by spiking the fruit punch with alcohol from the chemistry lab and feeding them Tweety's ipecac to induce vomiting during their choir performance; Verena then plants empty liquor bottles in their school bus. The same night, Dennis arrives at the academy dressed in a St. Ambrose uniform and meets Odette for their rendezvous in the attic of the school.\n\nTweety and Tinka have a change of heart on the co-ed integration after Tweety is humiliated by some St. Ambrose students. With the help of a group of teenage male townies called \"The Flat Critters\", led by Snake who has a crush on Tinka, they end up sending the intoxicated St. Ambrose boys home with a poor reputation. Miss McVane recognizes Verena as the mastermind behind the sabotage. Despite Miss McVane's appreciation for Verena's efforts, she is forced to expel Verena for having been caught fraternizing in her undergarments with a St. Ambrose boy.\n\nThe following week at the end of the year ceremony, the announcement of the merger is made by Mrs. Sawyer, much to the disapproval of the girls, including Abby. The students, led by Odie, hole up inside the school dormitories and demand a student body vote count as a single vote on the board of trustees. Meanwhile, a media circus surrounds the school, and the board of trustees agree to a student vote. Ultimately, the votes against the integration outnumber those for it, and the students donate their personal savings to help with the school's debt.\n\nIn a humorous epilogue prior to the credits, the following is revealed: Verena goes on to publish \"Moi\", one of the most-read women's publications in the world; Odette becomes a congresswoman and declares war on the tobacco industry; Momo is a scientist developing the first male oral contraceptive; Tinka, a famous actress, comes out to Barbara Walters in a 1997 interview; Tweety became a psychologist and wrote a best-seller about bulimia; Abby, a radical political activist, is serving a prison sentence for a 1970 bank holdup; and Miss Godard's is still a girls school.\n\n\"All I Wanna Do\" was filmed in 1997 in Toronto, primarily at the Trafalgar Castle School also at Loretto Abbey CSS (especially the chapel scenes), and was financed through Alliance Atlantis studios, a Canadian distribution company. \n\nThe film was picked up by Miramax Films and was given a limited release in the United States on September 4, 1998 under the alternate title \"All I Wanna Do\", as Miramax found the film's original working title, \"The Hairy Bird\" (which alluded to male genitalia), to be too offensive. The film was released in Canada and the United Kingdom under the title \"Strike!\". The only country to release the film under its original title was Australia.\n\nIn March 2000, the film was re-released in New York City at the United Artists Union Square Theater where it grossed $5,383 in its single week of screenings. \n\nA.O. Scott of \"The New York Times\" noted that the film \"mixes such prim old-fashioned naughtiness with more consequential misbehavior...  \"All I Wanna Do\" lurches between girl-power melodrama and bratty farce, but the ungainliness is part of the film's charm.\" He also noted that the film is \"surprisingly pleasant, thanks to smart, unstereotyped performances -- especially by Ms. Hoffmann and Ms. Dunst -- and the filmmaker's evident respect and affection for her characters.\"\n\nNathan Rabin of \"The A.V. Club\" favorably reviewed the film, noting that in its final act it \"gains focus and momentum, becoming less a nostalgic celebration of female bonding than a boldly feminist teen sex comedy that isn't above the occasional group-vomiting scene. It improves steadily as it goes along, right up through an enormously satisfying ending that combines rousing rhetoric about the price of gender inequity and the power of group solidarity—and throws in a rowdy snobs vs. slobs setpiece worthy of \"Animal House\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33980404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33980404", "title": "Ball Jacks", "text": "Ball Jacks\n\nThis video game is a futuristic action game involving an ultra-competitive sporting event. Two robot crabs are controlled by men who play the game merely to become wealthy and famous.There is a conveyor belt behind them that spews metal balls at them. The goal is to capture balls that belong the opponent and keep them from him until time runs out. Balls can also be knocked out from the mechanical hands of the opponent. All damaged crabs must return to the pit area for a quick maintenance and repair session.\n\nThere are several modes: a world championship against increasingly tougher opponents, a multiplayer versus mode, a training mode, and a time trial where the time limit is the only foe.\n\nThe game was poorly received, with Andy Dyer criticising the graphics, sound, gameplay and size.\n"}
{"id": "40287191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40287191", "title": "Berkeley Folk Music Festival", "text": "Berkeley Folk Music Festival\n\nThe Berkeley Folk Music Festival was a folk music festival held annually from 1958 to 1970 in Berkeley, California, one of the major centers of the folk music revival in the United States. It was directed by Barry Olivier.\n\nThe Festival was one of the preeminent folk festivals on the West Coast, predating the more famous Newport Folk Festival on the East Coast and presenting performers, artists, and scholars such as Joan Baez, Pete Seeger, Doc Watson, Alan Lomax, Howlin' Wolf, Phil Ochs, Alice Stuart, Jean Ritchie, Jean Redpath, Jesse Fuller, Big Mama Thornton, Mance Lipscomb, Mississippi John Hurt, Archie Green, Alan Dundes, Bess Lomax Hawes, Ewan MacColl, John Fahey, Robbie Basho, the Jefferson Airplane, the Youngbloods, Big Brother and the Holding Company, reb Shlomo Carlebach, and many others. The festival's willingness to embrace electric rock music and other forms of what would become known as roots music or Americana makes it markedly different from Newport, with its famous struggle over Bob Dylan going electric. It exemplified the diverse and adventurous musical and cultural milieu of the West Coast—and the Bay Area in particular—and suggests a major revision in our understanding of the folk revival, of the relationship of culture to political events in Berkeley such as the Free Speech Movement, to commerce and civil society, and to ongoing issues and questions about cultural heritage, technology, diversity, and commonality.\n"}
{"id": "48376125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48376125", "title": "British Theatre Playhouse", "text": "British Theatre Playhouse\n\nThe British Theatre Playhouse (BTP) is a professional theatrical and musical production company incorporated in Singapore in 2004. With the motto \"The Best in Live British Entertainment\", the BTP is internationally focused with a British connection, as well as it is a long-standing member of the Singaporean British Chamber of Commerce and the European Chamber of Commerce. In 2012, the BTP also established a UK branch office, in order to work more closely with acclaimed British playwrights, writers, actors, directors, musical directors, and set and costume designers.\n\nThe company has produced and presented a series of highly successful British productions in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and the UK, and is currently looking to expand its production output in Hong Kong and India. Its aim is to continue bringing to the audience shows which feature stars and other prominent stage, television and film actors, or music performers, from London’s West End, as it has been the case with all its shows so far, and presenting them in world-class hotels and other venues. So far, the BTP has produced 21 plays and musicals, making it a largely active production company, as it has been steadily achieving at least 2 productions per year since its foundation.\n\nBritish Theatre Playhouse launched its branch office in Malaysia as the company has been bringing shows to Malaysia since 2005, so the new office will continue to work and grow the market.\n\nThe founders of the British Theatre Playhouse are Cecilia Leong-Faulkner and John Faulkner. Cecilia and John met in Kuala Lumpur in 1987 when Cecilia was working for American Express International in Kuala Lumpur which sponsored the play Bedroom Farce by Sir Alan Ayckbourn CBE and John was appearing in a dinner-theatre play at The Regent Hotel for the late British actor and producer Derek Nimmo. The idea for the foundation of the BTP came to them over a dinner one evening back in 2002, two years before the foundation of the BTP in 2004, when a comment was made about the absence of British plays in Singapore.\n\nCecilia has always enjoyed British theatre and music. Her love for the arts and culture sparked off in childhood, and one of her favourite magazines was Vogue, which introduced her to glossy lifestyle and people with interesting careers or hobbies. To her, art is culture, an expression of one’s dreams, inspiration, life and society. Cecilia is currently the Managing Director of the company. Previously, she worked as a Marketing Executive for American Express when she was living in Kuala Lumpur, then as a Marketing Manager for Wembley Stadium when she moved to live in London, then when she first moved to Singapore as a Marketing Manager for Magazines Inc., then as a Corporate Director of Marketing Communications for the luxury Banyan Tree Resorts and Spas again in Singapore, and as a Regional Advisor to the Association of Business Executives (ABE). At some point, she even formed her own marketing and PR firm called Cecilia Leong-Faulkner Marketing and PR Consultancy, and thus she worked for various clients including the Six Senses Hotels, Resorts and Spas, for fashion events with the Singapore Tourism Board, and for fashion designers such as Lawrence Steele, Neil Barrett and DSquared. In addition to her background in magazine publishing with Magazines Inc., she has also been a freelance journalist writing articles for Singapore’s Women’s Weekly. She is a current Life Member of the Chinese Women’s Association in Singapore, which is well known for its fund-raising activities, and has served as the Honorary Secretary on the main committee. She also holds a Graduate Certificate in Hotel Management from Cornell University, one of the top Ivy League universities in the US, and a Diploma in Business Management from the Association of Business Executives (ABE). She was recently asked to join the Leadership Business Group of Singapore's British Chamber of Commerce.\n\nJohn Faulkner (also known by his equity performer’s name Richard Denning) was born and raised in London, and saw his career starting in London when he graduated from the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art. He has since worked as a producer, director and performer in London, UK, and in over twenty other countries. His London West End shows include e.g. Sir John Gielgud’s production of The Gay Lord Quex with Judi Dench, and Me And My Girl at the Apollo Theatre. In London too, he performed his cabaret act featuring the songs of Noël Coward, Cole Porter, George Gershwin and many others of that period, at The Ritz, The Dorchester and Claridges Hotel. His overseas work includes the recital programme Remembrance for Shakespeare in the US with Princess Grace of Monaco, which was also presented in London six months later in the presence of Prince Charles and Princess Diana, and a year in Paris with Roland Petit and his wife Zizi Jeanmaire in their revue Zizi, Je T’Aime! at Le Casino de Paris. He produced and acted in Noël Coward’s Cowardy Custard in a national tour of Sweden in conjunction with the Swedish National Theatre. In Singapore, he co-founded the LaSalle School of Drama at LaSalle College of the Arts, and he was also the director of the Musical Theatre School, which offered recreational classes in song and dance for musical theatre to adults. He is currently the Artistic Director of the BTP.\n\nThanks to their long-standing promotion of the British culture in the area through the British Theatre Playhouse, Cecilia and John were also invited to meet The Queen and Prince Phillip on the occasion of the Queen’s State Visit to Singapore in March 2006. On another occasion, Cecilia was invited to meet Prince William and his wife Kate Middleton when they officially visited Singapore in September 2012. Further to the above, Cecilia also collaborated with the welfare charity The Mission to Seafarers and was thus invited to meet its Royal Patron, HRH Princess Anne, at a reception on board the Royal Albatross yacht on 3 November 2016. One year later, in November 2017, Cecilia was invited to meet HRH Prince Charles and his wife Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, when they officially visited Singapore as part of their Southeast Asia tour.\n\nThe British Theatre Playhouse has the honour to presently have four patrons. The Life Patron since the foundation of the BTP HE Sir Alan Collins KCVO CMG. His Excellency Sir Alan Collins KCVO CMG is the former British High Commissioner to Singapore and former British Consul-General in New York, USA, as well as the Director General and Chief Executive of the Commonwealth Business Council.\n\nFurthermore, the BTP has a Patron in HE Mr Scott Wightman CMG, when he became the British High Commissioner to Singapore in 2015, thus succeeded HE Mr Antony Phillipson (2011-2015), who in turn succeeded HE Mr Paul Madden CMG FRGS (2007-2011).\n\nMoreover, in Malaysia, HE Mrs Victoria Treadell CMG MVO is another Patron of the BTP since 2014. She succeeded HE Mr Simon Featherstone CMG (2010 - 2014), after he succeeded HE Mr Boyd McCleary CMG CVO (2006 - 2010).\n\nHE Mr Mark Kent also accepted to be the Patron of British Theatre Playhouse in Vietnam (2007 - 2010), and is currently the British Ambassador to Thailand. His Excellency was the Guest of Honour at the Opening Night of the BTP’s production The Mousetrap in Bangkok in October 2013.\n\nThe British Theatre Playhouse also has two Honorary Advisors. The first one is Mr Steve Puckett OBE. Steve has been a Board Member of the Charities Aid Foundation - South East Asia and the Lien Aid Foundation, as well as an Advisory Board Member of Singapore Polytechnic and Director of Newcastle University International. He is also the Founder of various companies including the Singapore-based Asia-wide energy consulting company Tri-Zen. Previously, he was the President of the British Chamber of Commerce in Singapore, the Chairman of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, and until the end of the 1990s he held senior executive positions at Exxon Mobil (Mobil Corporation).\n\nThe second one is Mr Stephen Mangham. Steven is one of the partners in Mangham Gaxiola McGarrybowen, which has been Singapore's biggest ever advertising agency start up. Prior to that, he used to be the Chairman of the Ogilvy Singapore Group. Under Stephen’s leadership, Ogilvy almost trebled their revenue and in less than six years they grew from 240 to 600 people. Stephen has graduated with a degree in law from Oxford University.\n\nIn June and July 2018, the British Theatre Playhouse produced the Asian tour of The Definitive Rat Pack in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Dubai, in association with Worldwide Entertainment. The British Theatre Playhouse is renowned for its many years of presenting to audiences in Singapore and the rest of Southeast Asia with the very best in live entertainment brought from London’s West End. This year they've extended their reach and Dubai is now included in their itinerary.\n\nThe Rat Pack: Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, and Sammy Davis Jr. were legendary singers and entertainers. \"The Definitive Rat Pack\" has played to audiences in all corners of the globe.\n\nHaving met in London’s West End in 2003 as the original cast of \"The Rat Pack: Live from Las Vegas\", which earned an Olivier Award nomination, the British Theatre Playhouse welcomed Stephen Triffitt, Mark Adams and George Daniel Long, now known as \"The Definitive Rat Pack\", to Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Dubai. The production has toured internationally and, driven by UK performers and musicians, now widens the impact of musical theatre in Asia. The first event in Singapore was a public performance, and the second one was a charity gala in aid of the charity organisation The Business Times Budding Artists Fund and was attended by the new President of the Republic of Singapore Madam Halimah Yacob, the British High Commissioner HE Mr Scott Wightman, and the Malaysian High Commissioner HE Dato' Zulkifli Adnan. Both the events took place at One Farrer Hotel and Spa's Grand Ballroom. Likewise, there was a regular performance in Kuala Lumpur, and the event took place in the Grand Ballroom of Hilton Kuala Lumpur. Finally, there were two regular performances in Dubai, and the event took place in Dubai Opera.\n\nThe Definitive Rat Pack in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Dubai featured a special guest Nancy Sinatra played by Hannah Lindsey and a swinging 9-piece band.\n\nIn October 2017, the British Theatre Playhouse in association with The British Club of Singapore produced Tea with the Old Queen. Tea with the Old Queen is a comical, witty and poignant theatrical comedy revolving around the imaginary funny eccentricities of the British monarchy, as recorded in the fictional secret diaries of William Tallon, an actual person who for more than 40 years worked as a Stewart and Page at Clarence House where Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother lived, due to which he also came to be known as Backstairs Billy. The play was first written as well as directed and produced by the award-winning writer Graham Woolnough. Its current protagonist and the one in Singapore too is Ian Stark, as this is a one-man theatrical comedy.\n\nThe theatrical comedy has entertained many audiences all these years in the UK, such as in Jermyn Street Theatre in London’s West End (2016), Newcastle Theatre (2014), Bridlington Spa Theatre (2012), Guildford’s’ Yvonne Arnauld Theatre (2012), Edinburgh Fringe (2012), King’s Head Theatre in London (2017 & 2010), and many more.\n\nThe show was attended by the President of The British Club of Singapore, Mr Damian Hills, and others.\n\nIn June and July 2017, the British Theatre Playhouse produced Stars of the West End in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Jakarta, in association with Worldwide Entertainment. The first event in Singapore was a regular performance, and the second one was a charity gala in aid of the charity organisation Food from the Heart and was attended by the President of the Republic of Singapore HE Dr Tony Tan, the British High Commissioner HE Mr Scott Wightman, and the EU Ambassador Dr Michael Pulch. Both the events took place at One Farrer Hotel and Spa. Likewise, there was a regular performance in Jakarta, attended by the Minister of Tourism HE Mr Ariel Yahya, and the Deputy British Ambassador and Head of Mission to Indonesia Ms Juliet Maric Capeling, and the event took place in Ciputra Artpreneur Theatre. Finally, there was a charity gala alongside a performance in Kuala Lumpur attended by Her Majesty Tunku Ampuan Tuanku Najihah, and the event took place at the Gardens Ballroom of the Gardens Hotel in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nIn Stars of the West End, four leading stars of some of the most successful musicals in the history of London’s West End, such as \"The Phantom of the Opera\", \"Les Misérables\", \"Cats\", \"Chicago\", \"Evita\", \"Jesus Christ Superstar\", \"Mamma Mia!\", \"Miss Saigon\", \"West Side Story\" and \"Wicked!\", presented songs from the aforementioned musicals.\n\nThe four leading stars in Singapore were Mike Sterling, Shona Lindsay, Tom Solomon and Jayne O’Mahony. In Kuala Lumpour and Jakarta, Jayne O’Mahony were replaced by Yildz Hussein.\n\nIn November 2016, the British Theatre Playhouse collaborated with Worldwide Entertainment in order to present in Singapore Let’s Dance – Paul Roberts Sings David Bowie. The show opened in Cé La Vi at Marina Bay Sands on 10 November and lasted until 12 November 2016. The show was attended by the EU Ambassador to Singapore, Dr Michael Pulch, and his wife, Gabriele Pulch, and other important people of the local political and financial scene.\n\nDavid Bowie (8 January 1947 – 10 January 2016), used to be a British pop singer, songwriter and actor, famous for hits such as \"Let’s Dance\", \"Space Oddity\", \"Ziggy Stardust\", \"China Girl\", and many more. Thus, he was one of the pop icons who influenced Paul Roberts, himself a singer, songwriter and actor and former lead singer of the British punk rock music band The Stranglers for more than 15 years. The other band members who comprised the band for that particular show in Singapore was Andy Ellis (guitar), Martin Lawrie (keyboards), Kita Steur (bass) and Jason Day (drums).\n\nAlso, when HRH Princess Anne attended a charity event on 3 November for two charities of which she is the Patroness, The Mission to Seafarers and Riding for the Disabled, Paul Roberts also performed there, after the respective arrangement of the BTP.\n\nIn April 2016, the BTP produced the world-famous play The Vortex by Sir Noël Coward. This is the play that launched Coward’s career as one of the great British dramatists with its scathing expose of London’s high society in the 1920s. Originally produced in 1924, the play enjoyed a phenomenal success at the box office in London, although it scandalised London and although Coward was only twenty four years old at the time.\n\nThe play featured the distinguished British actress Jane Seymour OBE, in the demanding role of Florence Lancaster, a high society and promiscuous beauty facing advancing years and lovers. Jane Seymour is famous for her role in the TV series Dr Quinn, Medicine Woman, for which she won her second Golden Globe Award and got endeared by audiences worldwide, as well as for her role in the James Bond film Live and Let Die. This was Jane's first time on an Asian stage. Other actors and actresses included James Cartwright, Alex Spinney, Arthur Bostrom, Kate Malyon, Tracy Brabin, Julie Teal, John Fagan and John Faulkner. The play was directed by Bob Thomson, and Michael Holt was the set designer.\n\nThe production opened at the Jubilee Hall Theatre of the Raffles Hotel in Singapore from 27 April to 15 May 2016. An Art for Charity gala took place on 29 April to raise money for the International Committee of Red Cross as well as for Singapore Red Cross, and it was attended by The President of Singapore Dr Tony Tan with his wife Mrs Mary Tan, the British High Commissioner in Singapore HE Mr Scott Wightman CMG that is one of the Patrons of the BTP, and the EU Ambassador in Singapore Dr Michael Pulch.\n\nPreviously, in May 2015, the BTP produced the play No Sex, Please – We’re British. This was one of the world’s longest running comedies, running continuously for sixteen years in London's West End, and also one of the favourite forms of British theatre – farce. The play starred Nick Wilton and was directed by Alister Cameron, and enjoyed great success in both Singapore and Kuala Lumpur. In Singapore, the play was also attended by the President His Excellency Dr Tony Tan.\n\nThe opening night in Singapore was on 6 May at the Raffles Hotel’s Jubilee Hall Theatre, followed by a Charity Gala Performance and Dinner on 8 May, the President HE Dr Tony Tan’s visit on 14 May, and the Cheque Presentation to Breast Cancer Foundation on 19 June. Subsequently, the play moved to Kuala Lumpur for more shows from 19 to 22 May at the Hotel Majestic Kuala Lumpur.\n\nThe play featured the artists Nick Wilton, Alister Cameron, Sarah-Jayne Butler, Harry Livingstone, Lynette McMorrough, John Faulkner, Clive Flint, Lisa Hurst and Adele Oni . Alister Cameron was also its director, and its set designer was Katy Tuxford.\n\nExtending the horizons into the music world again, as it had done before too, the BTP presented two musical productions from the British-born singer Leo Sayer, in January 2015. The name of the tour was Leo Sayer in Concert – 40 Years at the Top.\n\nThe events premiered on 16 January with Cocktails at the Eden Hall, which is the official residence of the British High Commissioner in Singapore, continued with Leo Sayer Live in Singapore on 17 January, and concluded with the After-Show party for the VIP guests to meet Leo Sayer later at the night of 17 January.\n\nThe concert in Kuala Lumpur was held on 20 January, with an After Show Party for the Queen of Malaysia HRH Kebawah Duli Yang Maha Mulia Seri Paduka Baginda Raja Permaisuri Agong, the Royal Princess of Pahang YAM Tengku Muhaini Sultan Ahmad Shah, and other VIPs to meet Leo Sayer after the show.\n\nThe band included Ronnie Johnson (guitar), Elliot Henshaw (drums), Rob Taggart (keyboards) and Dave Troke (bass), under the consultancy of Toby Cruse.\n\nIn 2014, the BTP produced the quintessentially British award-winning comedy Yes, Prime Minister by Sir Antony Jay CBE CVO and Jonathan Lynn. Based on the successful BBC television series by the same writers, the stage version had run for two years in London's West End in 2011 and 2012, followed by a successful tour in the UK in 2013.\n\nThe play opened at Raffles Hotel's Jubilee Hall theatre on 8 May, followed by the Charity Gala Performance and Dinner on 9 May, lunch on 12 May at the Eden Hall, the visit of the Singaporean President HE Dr Tony Tan on 17 May, and the Cheque Presentation on 19 May. Subsequently, the show toured to Kuala Lumpur for shows from 21 to 25 May, and Malaysia’s Prime Minister Dato' Seri Najib Razak also attended the play, as well as the Malaysian royalty YAM Yang Amat Mulia Tunku Laxamana Tunku Dato' Seri Utama Naquiyuddin Tuanku Ja'afar Ibni Tuanku Ja’afar DK, DKYR, SPNS, SPMP, PPT, and the Chairman of the British Malaysian Chamber of Commerce Dato’ Seri Larry Gan.\nThe play included the artists John McAndrew (Jim Hacker), Crispin Redman (Sir Humphrey Appleby), Antony Eden (Bernard Wooley), Sasha Waddell (Claire Sutton), David Warwick (The Kumranistan Ambassador) and John Faulkner (Simon Chester). The director was Robin Herford, and the set designer was Simon Higlett.\n\nOctober 2013 saw the company’s most successful production with sell-out nights by audiences in both Singapore and Kuala Lumpur as well as great success in Bangkok. The play was the world’s longest running play, Agatha Christie’s The Mousetrap, and this production was part of the show’s worldwide celebrations of the Diamond Anniversary of the first performance in London 60 years ago and the continuous run since then.\n\nThe show was first presented in Bangkok from 27 to 29 September at Aksra Theatre, and was graced by the British Ambassador to Thailand HE Mr Mark Kent. The opening night in Singapore took place on 4 October at the Raffles Hotel’s Jubilee Hall Theatre, followed by the Eden Hall lunch on 7 October, and the Charity Gala Performance and Dinner on 10 October which was attended by Singapore’s President HE Dr Tony Tan and his wife Mrs Mary Tan. In Kuala Lumpur the show was presented from 16 to 20 October at the Auditorium DBKL and was attended by the former Prime Minister of Malaysia Dato’ Sri Dr Mahathir Mohaamad and his wife Dr Siti Hasmah.\n\nThe artists of the play included Tim Wallers, Isla Carter, Richard Keightley, Sarah Whitlock, John Faulkner, Katherine Heath, Tony Boncza and Thomas Richardson; the director was Denise Silvey; and the set designer was Malcolm J. Mclnnes following the work of the original set of Roger Furse from 1952.\n\nIn a change of artistic orientation, the BTP also presented Louis Hoover’s solo music show Salute to Sinatra, featuring a live 18 piece band on stage to back Louis Hoover, with songs from the celebrated career of Frank Sinatra.\n\nThe events of the show started with an invitation for the VIPs to meet Louis Hoover on 17 October 2012, followed by the opening night and the Charity Gala Performance and Dinner on 18 October at the Sands Theatre of Marina Bay Sands, Singapore, which was also attended by the former President of Singapore HE Mr S.R. Nathan.\n\nThe artists included Louis Hoover himself with The Hollywood Orchestra and Melissa Tham; the musical director was Toby Cruse; and the UK musicians were again Toby Cruse (piano/keyboards), Elliot Henshaw (drums), David Olney (bass), Robert Sydor (tenor sax/flute/clarinet) and Tony Dixon (lead trumpet).\n\nEarlier in the same year of 2012, the BTP had produced Ray Cooney OBE’s award-winning farce Out of Order. The show was presented at the Raffles Hotel's Jubilee Hall in Singapore, and later on at the Double Tree Hotel in Kuala Lumpur, with great box office success at both venues.\n\nThe events for this show included a Meet-the-Cast Reception at Eden Hall on 9 April, a Charity Gala Performance and Dinner on 11 April, and the actual performances took place from 11 to 15 April at the Jubilee Hall Theatre of the Raffles Hotel. The opening night was also attended by the Singaporean President HE Dr Tony Tan and his wife Mrs Mary Tan, the then British High Commissioner H.E. Mr Antony Phillipson, and the then President of the British Chamber of Commerce Mr Steve Puckett.\n\nThe artists were Nick Wilton, Robin Kermode, Jolana Lee, Sasha Waddell, Paddy Navin, David Streames, Edward Grace, David Warwick and John Faulkner; the director was David Warwick; and the set designer was Katy Tuxford.\n\nAs the BTP had diversified, since the appeal of musical shows in the region had become clear to its owners, an electrifying rock 'n roll show was produced in May 2011, called Buddy Vs the Killer. The show thus made its world premiere debut in Singapore, and after that it toured to Kuala Lumpur where it was presented at the Hilton Kuala Lumpur. It was devised by the British actor-musicians Billy Geraghty and Kevin Oliver Jones, and featured the songs of the rock 'n roll icons and Buddy Holly and Jerry Lee Lewis. Jerry used to be known as 'the Killer' and hence this title.\n\nThis show started with rehearsals in the area of Pimlico in London in April 2011. When everything was ready and everyone moved to Singapore, the show started with a Meet the Cast Party on 2 May at the Eden Hall, then from 4 to 8 May the doors opened at Jubilee Hall Theatre of the Raffles Hotel, followed by the British Night Charity Gala on 6 May at the same venue. The success of the musical led to the transfer of the production to the UK, to the Wolverhampton Grand Theatre and the Futurist Theatre.\n\nFor this musical, the artists were Billy Geraghty, Kevin Oliver Jones, Tom Connor, Tara Nelson, Adam Keast, Ally Holmes, Dan de Cruz and Jason Blackwater; the director was John Faulkner; the music director was Kevin Oliver Jones; and the set designer was Graham Lough.\n\nThe BTP closed the decade successfully with the production of the play From a Jack to a King by Bob Carlton, which was presented at the Raffles Hotel’s Jubilee Hall Theatre in Singapore, from 5 to 9 May 2010. The opening night was attended by the then Minister for Education The Honourable Dr Ng Eng Hen and his wife Prof. Ivy Ng, and the then Director for the British Council Mr Mark Howard. The following week, the musical production was also presented in Kuala Lumpur at the Hilton Kuala Lumpur.\nThe artists included Peter Helmer, Matt Devitt, Steve Simmonds, Kevin Jones, Ally Holmes, Grant Dinwoodie, Sarah Whittuck, Maria Lawson and Jane Milligan. The director was Matt Devitt; the music director was Dai Watts; and the set and costume designer was Rodney Ford.\n\nAlan Plater CBE FRSL’s Blonde Bombshells of 1943 was produced and presented at the Raffles Hotel’s Jubilee Hall Theatre, Singapore, from 29 October to 2 November 2008. It was one more musical produced by the BTP, achieving an equally impressive success. Subsequently, the musical play was presented in Kuala Lumpur at the Hilton Kuala Lumpur, and in Bangkok at the Hilton Bangkok.\n\nThe artists for this play were Alison Harding, Karen Paullada, Rosie Jenkins, Suzie Emmett, Barbara Hockaday, Sarah Whittuck, Jane Milligan and Oliver Chopping; the director was again John Faulkner; and the music director was Howard Gray.\n\nJim Cartwright’s The Rise and Fall of Little Voice was the first musical which was produced by the British Theatre Playhouse, opening its doors at the Jubilee Hall Theatre of the Raffles Hotel in Singapore, from 16 to 21 January 2008. The opening night was honoured by the presence of the Singaporean President HE Mr S.R. Nathan.\n\nAfter that, the musical play was also presented in Kuala Lumpur at the Hilton Kuala Lumpur, in Bangkok at the Hilton Bangkok, and in Sri Lanka at the Hilton Colombo.\n\nFor this play, the artists were James Cartwright, Sarah Duncan,John McArdle, Michelle McManus, Rachael Wood and John Faulkner. The director was Alexander Holt; the set designer was Norman Coates; and the music director was Stuart Barr.\n\nRelatively Speaking was a production of Sir Alan Ayckbourn CBE. It was first presented from 2 to 6 May 2007 at the Raffles Hotel’s Jubilee Hall Theatre in Singapore, and then toured to Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia, and Colombo in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe artists were Jeremy Gittins, William Rycroft, Amanda Waldy and Marianne Oldham; the director was John Nolan; and the set designer was Norman Coates.\n\nA Bedful of Foreigners by Dave Freeman was the BTP’s previous production. It was presented from 15 to 19 November 2006 at the Jubilee Hall Theatre of Raffles Hotel in Singapore, and then toured to Kuala Lumpur and was presented there at the Hilton Kuala Lumpur.\n\nNick Wilton, Jeremy Gittins, John Nolan, Kim Hartman, Corinna Powlesland, Emma Francis and John Faulkner were the artists for this play; John Nolan was the director, and Norman Coates was the set designer. John Nolan has also participated in the Batman films \"Batman Begins\", \"The Dark Knight\" and \"The Dark Knight Rises\", produced by his nephews Jonathan Nolan and Christopher Nolan.\n\nIn April 2006, the BTP turned to the playwright who was recognised by all as 'The Master', Sir Noël Coward, with a production of his most famous play, Private Lives. This celebrated the 76th anniversary of the original West End production back in September the 24th 1930.\n\nThe play first featured from 18 to 22 April in Singapore (Raffles Hotel’s Jubilee Hall Theatre), and was attended by the former President of Singapore HE Mr S.R. Nathan and his wife Mrs Nathan, and the Minister for Trade and Industry The Honourable Mr Lim Hng Kiang and his wife Mrs Lim. Subsequently, the show went on tour to Kuala Lumpur (Hilton Kuala Lumpur), and Penang (Eastern and Oriental Hotel), and afterwards to Bangkok (Mandarin Oriental Bangkok), with great success at all these venues.\n\nThe play was nominated by the public for ‘Best Leisure Event’ 2006 Tourism Award by the Singapore Tourism Board.\n\nAmong the artists were Mary Tamm, Crispin Redman, Kitty Lucas and Nick Waring; the director was David Warwick; and the set designer was Nancy Surman.\n\n2005 marked the second year of the BTP. The company presented Ray Cooney's hit farce Funny Money at the Shangri-La Hotel Singapore from 3 to 7 May in a dinner-theatre format.\n\nThe play was attended by the Founder of Singapore The Honourable Mr Lee Kuan Yew GCMG, CH, SPMJ and his wife Mrs Lee, the current Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore and then Defence Minister The Honourable Mr Teo Chee Hean and his wife Mrs Teo, and the former President British Chamber of Commerce and SE Director of Rolls-Royce Mr Jonathan Asherson. Then, the show was presented at the then new Hilton Hotel in Kuala Lumpur, where it was a sell-out.\n\nThe artists included Nick Wilton, Kim Hartman, Patrick Moncton, Louise Jameson (the first female character of Dr Who), John Nolan again, David Warwick, John Faulkner and David Mercatali; the director was David Warwick; and the set designer was Katy Tuxford.\n\nFrom 12 to 17 October 2004, the BTP produced its second play. This was the world classic The Importance of Being Earnest by the acclaimed Oscar Wilde, at the Jubilee Hall Theatre of the Raffles Hotel in Singapore.\n\nAmong the audience, the producers were honoured to have the then President of Singapore His Excellency Mr S.R. Nathan and his wife Mrs Urmilla Nathan, as well as the Founder of Singapore The Honourable Mr Lee Kuan Yew GCMG, CH, SPMJ and his wife Mrs Lee, the Senior Minister and former Prime Minister of Singapore The Honourable Mr Goh Chok Tong and his wife Mrs Goh, the Defence Minister The Honourable Mr Teo Chee Hean and his wife Mrs Teo, and the then British High Commissioner in Singapore Sir Alan Collins who is also the BTP’s Life Patron.\n\nThe great success of the show led to the transfer of the production to the Greenwich Theatre, London, in April 2005.\n\nUrsula Jones, John McAndrew, Harry Gostelow, Sarah Miller, Hannah Barrie, John Nettleton, Deirdre Doone and John Faulkner were among the artists; Robin Herford was the director; and Michael Holt was the set designer.\n\nSir Alan Ayckbourn's How the Other Half Loves was the first show produced by the BTP. The production was presented in the dinner-theatre setting of Singapore's Shangri-La Hotel from 27 to 30 April 2004 and was a sell-out.\n\nThe featured artists were Nigel Anthony, Louise Jameson, John McAndrew, Louise English, John Faulkner and Charlotte Chiew; the director was David Warwick; and the set designer was Katy Tuxford.\n\nBelieving in considerate corporate citizenship, the British Theatre Playhouse is also well known for its contribution to the community via raising money for various worthwhile causes and charities.\n\nIn June 2018,  the charity gala on the occasion of The Definitive Rat Pack in Singapore raised SGD60,000 for The Business Times Budding Artists Fund.\n\nIn June 2017, on the occasion of Stars of the West End, the BTP organised a Charity Gala which led to the raising of SGD 31,200 in aid of the charity organisation Food from the Heart.\n\nIn April 2016, the BTP's Art for Charity gala for the play The Vortex raised SGD 52,000 for the International Committee of Red Cross as well as for Singapore Red Cross.\n\nIn January and May 2015, the BTP raised SGD 52,000 for the Breast Cancer Foundation through the charity galas that it organised on the occasion of the shows of Leo Sayer in Concert – 40 Years at the Top and No Sex Please – We’re British.\n\nIn May 2014, the charity gala on the occasion of Yes, Prime Minister raised SGD 45,888 for Beautiful People and Singapore Committee for UN Movement.\n\nIn October 2013, SGD 80,000 was raised for HCA Hospice Care (Hong Kong - China - America) thanks to the charity gala of Agatha Christie’s Mousetrap.\n\nIn October 2012, Salute to Sinatra raised SGD 72,000 for the Straits Times School Pocket Money Fund. Earlier in April of the same year, Out of Order raised SGD 85,000 for the Business Times Budding Artists Fund.\n\nIn May 2011, the BTP teamed up with the British Chamber of Commerce and the European Chamber of Commerce and raised SGD 130,000 for Viva Foundation for Children with Cancer, on the occasion of the production Buddy vs the Killer.\n\nIn May 2010, on the occasion of From a Jack to a King, the BTP teamed up with the Association of Women Doctors and raised SGD 93,000 for KK Hospital Health Endowment Fund.\n\nIn January 2008, the BTP helped to raise SGD 85,000 for Viva Foundation for Children with Cancer through the charity gala of the production The Rise and Fall of Little Voice.\n\nIn October 2008, thanks to the Blonde Bombshells of 1943, the BTP helped to raise SGD 97,000 for the Fund MILK (Me I Love Kids), in order to help disadvantaged children 'who fall through the cracks of social safety net'.\n\nIn May 2007, the BTP helped to raise SGD 35,000 for Make a Wish Foundation Singapore through the charity gala of the production Relatively Speaking. Make a Wish Foundation is dedicated to granting heartfelt wishes of children between the ages of 3 and 18 who are challenged with a life-threatening illness or life-threatening medical conditions.\n\nIn April 2006, the BTP teamed up once again with Singapore Tatler to raise SGD 80,000 for the Community Chest of Singapore through Private Lives. In November 2006, the BTP teamed up with the American Association of Singapore to raise SGD 100,000 for KK Hospital’s Regional Outreach to Kids Fund through the play A Bedful of Foreigners.\n\nIn May 2005, the BTP teamed up with Ikebana International and organised a charity gala to support the Canossian Home for the Hearing Impaired through the show Funny Money.\n\nIn October 2004, the first year of BTP’s operation, the BTP teamed up with Singapore Tatler and raised SGD 140,000 for the Community Chest of Singapore through Oscar Wilde's show The Importance of Being Earnest. In the April of the same year, the BTP teamed up with Ikebana International on the occasion of the show How the Other Half Loves and raised SGD 43,431 for Make-a-Wish Foundation.\n\nIn 2006, the BTP produced Private Lives and this play was nominated for the category ‘Best Leisure Event’ by the Singapore Tourism Board. Two years later, in 2008, the BTP was nominated and selected as one of the three finalists at Singapore’s 'British Business Awards', awarded by the British Chamber of Commerce. The BTP currently also appears in the distinguished website Doing Business in Singapore. Equally impressively, in 2014, Cecilia became the face of the advertisements as a 'Community Star' finalist in the 15th Annual Business Awards in Singapore.\n\nOn another note, Cecilia and John were also invited to meet The Queen and Prince Phillip on the occasion of the Queen's State Visit to Singapore in March 2006. This is important, as a hallmark of their long-standing promotion of the British culture in the area through the British Theatre Playhouse. In September 2012, Cecilia was invited to meet Prince William and his wife Kate Middleton when they officially visited Singapore.\n\nThanks to the very active production output of the BTP, the awards and distinctions, the contribution to the society, as well as thanks to the sponsors and partners each time, the theatrical and musical productions of the BTP have always attracted the interest of the local and international press. Some of the productions have been discussed in the local Singapore's The Straits Times, Singapore Tatler, The Peak Singapore, The Edge Singapore, Icon Singapore Magazine, Prestige Singapore, Time Out Singapore, Angloinfo, Expat Living, Affluent Media, Luxury Insider, Business Times, Angloinfo Singapore, Razor TV, 8 Days, Eurochamber's website for Singapore and Yahoo's Finance Singapore website; and the neighbouring Malaysia's The Star, The New Straits Times, Malay Mail, The Sun Daily, The Edge Malaysia, Malaysia Tatler, The Peak Malaysia, Prestige Malaysia and Vision KL; as well as in the neighbouring Indonesia Tatler. Others have also featured in the international issues of Forbes, The New York Times, The Daily Telegraph and Harper’s Bazaar. Likewise, there has been coverage by the international news channels BBC World News and CNBC, the TV show Prime Time Singapore of the TV channel Channel News Asia, the website Lifestyle Asia, the International News Media Association, the website of the Hellenic Shipping News, the radio stations Gold 90.5 FM and Class 95 FM, and many more. BTP received inter-alia, media coverage for the Definitive Rat Pack from Icon Singapore, Peak Magazine, Asia Tatler and Prestige. The Definitive Rat Pack event was also featured at the website of the President of the Republic of Singapore, Madam Halimah Yacob, who was the Guest of Honour at the Charity Dinner Gala \"Arts for Charity\" held to raise funds for Business Times Budding Artist Fund.\n\nThe British Theatre Playhouse’s productions has always received favourable reviews too, for example by Angloinfo, The Flying Inkpot, Blouin Artinfo, GangMoh, and I Love Bon Bons. For the Definitive Ratpack, media reviews were made at buro247; danamic.org and dailyseni.com. \n\nMoving beyond the traditional business model whereby discussions start with the key people and companies that may potentially provide sponsorships and services, the BTP sees everyone as a partner, and each time all of them work together from different perspectives towards the achievement of a common objective, a successful theatrical or musical event, which will be mutually beneficial for everyone in business terms. So far, these partners have included the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46678173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46678173", "title": "Casino Life 2", "text": "Casino Life 2\n\nCasino Life 2: Brown Bag Legend is the nineteenth mixtape by American recording artist French Montana. It was released on May 8, 2015. The mixtape features guest appearances from Lil Wayne, Chris Brown, Lil Durk, Curren$y, will.i.am, Migos, and others. Production was handled by Detail, Young Chop, Southside, DJ Spinz, TM88, Swizz Beats and others. It is the sequel to, \"\" mixtape released in 2011. On May 3, Montana announced that the song, \"I Ain't Gonna Lie\", which featured Lil Wayne was going to be released on the mixtape.\n\n"}
{"id": "8561841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8561841", "title": "Cinema of Norway", "text": "Cinema of Norway\n\nNorway has had a notable cinema industry for some time.\n\nThe first film produced domestically in Norway was a short about fishermen, \"Fiskerlivets farer\", dating from 1907. The first feature was released in 1911, produced by Halfman Nobel Roede. In 1931 Tancred Ibsen, grandson of the playwright, presented Norway's first feature-length sound film, \"Den store barnedåpen\" (\"The Great Christening\"). Through the 1930s Ibsen \"dominated\" the nation's film industry, with Leif Sinding in second place. Ibsen produced conventional melodramas more or less on the model of Hollywood films.\n\nIn the early 21st century a few Norwegian film directors have had the opportunity to go to Hollywood to direct various independent films. As of 2011, nearly 900 films had been produced in Norway, with a third of these being made in the last 15 years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Norwegian equivalent of the Academy Awards is the Amanda award, which is presented during the annual Norwegian Film Festival in Haugesund. The prize was created in 1985. The Amanda award is presented in following categories: Best Norwegian Film, Best Directing, Best Male Actor, Best Female Actress, Best Film for Children and Youth, Best Screenplay, Best Short Film, Best Documentary (however, a documentary can also win the Best Film award), Best Foreign Film and an honorary award.\n\nThe documentary \"Kon-Tiki\" by Thor Heyerdahl received the Academy Award for Documentary Feature at the 24th Academy Awards in 1951. It is the only feature film in Norwegian history to win an Academy Award. In 2006 the Norwegian/Canadian animated short film The Danish Poet, directed by Norwegian Torill Kove and narrated by Norwegian screen legend Liv Ullmann, won an Academy Award for Animated Short Film, and became the second Norwegian production to receive an Academy Award.\n\nAs of 2013, five films from Norway have been nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film: \"Nine Lives\" (1957), \"The Pathfinder\" (1987), \"The Other Side of Sunday\" (1996), \"Elling\" (2001) and \"Kon-Tiki\" (2012).\n\n\n\nFilm schools include:\n\nOther alternatives for more theoretical higher education in film include:\n\nThere are also several more practical private film collages:\n\n"}
{"id": "14225319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14225319", "title": "Commercial skipping", "text": "Commercial skipping\n\nCommercial skipping is a feature of some digital video recorders that makes it possible to automatically skip commercials in recorded programs. This feature created controversy, with major television networks and movie studios claiming it violates copyright and should be banned.\n\nAfter the video cassette recorder (VCR) became popular in the 1980s, the television industry began studying the impact of users fast forwarding through commercials. Advertising agencies fought the trend by making them more entertaining. For many years, video recorders manufactured for the Japanese market have been able to skip advertisements automatically, which is done by detecting when foreign language audio overdub tracks provided for many programmes go silent, as advertisements were broadcast with a single language only.\n\nThe first digital video recorder (DVR) with a built-in commercial skipping feature was ReplayTV with its \"4000 Series\" and \"5000 Series\" units. In 2002, the main television networks and movie studios sued ReplayTV, claiming that skipping advertisements during replay violates copyright. Later, five owners of ReplayTV represented by Electronic Frontier Foundation and attorneys Ira Rothken and Richard Wiebe countersued, asking the federal judge to uphold consumers' rights to record TV shows and skip commercials, claiming that features like commercial skipping help parents protect their kids from excessive consumerism. ReplayTV ended up filing for bankruptcy in 2003 after fighting a copyright infringement suit over the ReplayTV's ability to skip commercials.\n\nIn addition to the DVR devices which existed in the private market since the late 1990s, towards the mid-2000s, due to the significant advances in home computers, Home theater PCs started gaining popularity in the private market and many users began using their Home theater PCs in their living room for entertainment purposes.\n\nFollowing this, many DVR programs were developed, including popular programs such as Windows Media Center, which contained all of the features of the DVR devices in addition to advanced features such as HDTV and the use of Multiple TV Tuner Cards. Some independent developers began developing independent software capable of skipping the commercial segments when playing recorded videos, and permanently removing the commercial segments from recorded video files.\n\nBy 2014, many DVR programs such as Windows Media Center, SageTV and MythTV had the capability to skip commercials segments in recorded TV broadcasts after installing third-party add-ons such as DVRMSToolbox, Comskip and ShowAnalyzer, which use various advanced techniques to locate the commercial segments in the video files and save their locations to text files. The text files can also be fed into programs such as MEncoder or DVRMSToolboxGUI which can delete the commercial segments from the recorded video files.\n\nA few third-party tools such as MCEBuddy automate detection and removal/marking of commercials.\n\nOne of the major weaknesses of commercial skippers is that, operating automatically, they may misidentify program material as a commercial and delete it. Most third-party programs do not allow manual fine-tuning of commercial segments locations before deletion. Some programs like MCEBuddy provide the ability to fine-tune commercial detection for groups of files (e.g. by channel or country) and provide tools to manually fine-tune commercial segments for individual files.\n\nIn May 2012, the US Dish Network began offering a DVR with what it calls AutoHop. The device would automatically skip commercials when displaying programming that the viewer had previously recorded with the PrimeTime Anytime feature. It does not skip ads on any live programs. US broadcasters were angered at the news, and FOX embarked on legal action. Most, but not all, of Fox's claims were dismissed; ultimately an agreement was reached whereby AutoHop would only become available for Fox stations seven days after a program is transmitted; terms of the settlement were not disclosed.\n\nThe introduction of digital video recorders and services with skipping and fast-forward capabilities enables viewers to avoid viewing interruptive advertisements in recorded programs, either manually or automatically. While advertising separate to television shows can be skipped, advertising in TV shows themselves (\"product placement\") cannot be skipped. Streaming services such as Hulu show shorter advertisements with a countdown timer and tailored to the viewers interests, asking interactive questions like \"Is this ad relevant to you?\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1981163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1981163", "title": "Contract J.A.C.K.", "text": "Contract J.A.C.K.\n\nContract J.A.C.K. is a prequel to the 2002 computer game \"\". It was developed by Monolith Productions and published by Sierra Entertainment, a subsidiary of Vivendi Universal Games. \"J.A.C.K.\" (Just Another Contract Killer) is set in the time frame between the events of the original \"No One Lives Forever\" and \"No One Lives Forever 2\".\n\nThe game follows John Jack, a professional killer recruited by H.A.R.M., a criminal organization central to the No One Lives Forever series. Contract J.A.C.K. is set between \"No One Lives Forever\" and \"No One Lives Forever 2\". The game does not involve UNITY, the organization for which Cate Archer works and that opposed H.A.R.M. in the other two games. Rather, \"J.A.C.K.\" pits H.A.R.M. against a rival criminal organization, Danger Danger.\n\nAfter a night of heavy drinking, Jack is apprehended by thugs, who are ordered to kill him. Before they can, he breaks free from the ropes that tied him to a chair and slaughters the thugs that swarm the building. Before he can leave, he receives a phone call from Dimitrij Volkov, H.A.R.M.'s Director of Executive Action. Volkov tells Jack to report to a job interview at the Roman ruins on Malta. The interview consists of Jack mowing down waves of H.A.R.M. troopers as Volkov taunts them over a loudspeaker. In the end, Jack is hired by H.A.R.M.\n\nFor his first assignment, Jack must infiltrate a Czechoslovakian military base to figure out why Danger Danger is interested in it. Upon delving deeper into the base, Jack becomes aware that the facility is a secret rocket launch site. Danger Danger is trying to use a Czech rocket to recover Dr. Harij, a H.A.R.M. scientist stranded on the moon after the destruction of H.A.R.M.'s space station in \"No One Lives Forever\". Although Danger Danger is able to launch a rocket full of their men, Jack commandeers a second rocket and heads to the moon after them.\n\nOn the moon, Jack must fight through Danger Danger goons to get to Dr. Harij. Danger Danger reaches the scientist first, and they begin destroying the lunar base to prevent Jack from escaping. Jack reaches Danger Danger's rocket seconds before it lifts-off. The effects of the rocket's propulsion and the base's explosion send Jack floating through space on a collision course with the Sun. \"Il Pazzo\" (Italian for \"The Crazy One\"), leader of Danger Danger, begins dispatching men to kill Jack, but he fails, and Jack floats to the other rocket, which had been floating among the debris of the base.\n\nJack crashes his rocket into the Italian countryside of Tuscany. \"Il Pazzo\" is nearby with Dr. Harij, and he flees on a gondola. Jack steals a machine gun-equipped Vespa and pursues them. After killing hordes of \"Il Pazzo's\" men, Jack arrives at a castle where \"Il Pazzo\" is holed up with Dr. Harij. Using cannons positioned around the building, Jack kills the defenders. A long-distance battle ensues between Jack and \"Il Pazzo\". Jack wins, but is not able to kill Il Pazzo completely. After rescuing Dr. Harij, Jack is shot by Volkov and left to die. The game ends with Jack rising up and limping toward Volkov's skis. It is believed that the ending implied why Volkov is confined in a wheel chair and covered in a full-body plaster cast in \"No One Lives Forever 2\".\n\nContract J.A.C.K. uses the same Lithtech Jupiter engine as used in the base release of \"\" however none of the upgrade paths that are available to boost abilities in the latter are present in J.A.C.K.\n\n\"Contract J.A.C.K.\" received mixed reviews with an aggregate score of 52.03% on GameRankings and 56/100 on Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "3001571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3001571", "title": "Dan (Chinese opera)", "text": "Dan (Chinese opera)\n\nDan (), is the general name for female roles in Chinese opera, often referring to leading roles. They may be played by either actors or actresses. Male actors who specialize in playing \"dàn\" are referred to as \"nándàn\" (男旦); the practice arose during the Qing dynasty due to imperial prohibitions against women performing on stage, considered detrimental to public morality. In the early years of Peking opera, all roles were played by men. Wei Changsheng, a male performer in the Qing court, developed the , or \"false foot\" technique, to simulate the bound feet of women and the characteristic gait that resulted from the practice.\n\nThere are a few different kinds of \"dan\" in Chinese opera. The commonly seen ones are 'Guimen Dan', 'Hua Dan', 'Daoma Dan', 'Wu Dan', 'Lao Dan' and 'Cai Dan'. Each different kind of dan has its own unique characteristics.\n\nThe Guimen Dan (, \"boudoir-door role\") is the role of the virtuous lady. It is also known as Qingyi (, \"verdant-clad\") or Zhengdan (, \"straight role\"). Guimen Dan are normally mature and sometimes married women. They may be rich or poor, young or of middle age, but they have to be mature women to fall under this category. Guimen Dan focus more on singing and they have little movement. They sing in a very high pitched and piercing voice. Opera schools in China have difficulty recruiting students for this kind of role, since it requires a good voice, good looks, and a good height. The most famous Guimen Dan of the last century was Mei Lanfang. Examples of Guimen roles are Du Liniang (杜丽娘) from \"The Peony Pavilion\" (牡丹亭) and Wang Baochuan (王宝钏）from \"Wujiapo\" (武家坡).\n\nA Hua Dan (, \"flowery role\") is a lively, vivacious young female character. They normally wear short blouses with pants or skirts. Unlike the Guimen Dan, the Hua Dan focuses more on movements and speech. They must be able to speak quickly and clearly. They also need to project an image of cuteness and innocence as Hua Dan always represent girls of around 12–16 years old. Often, a Guimen Dan is accompanied by a Hua Dan maid. Hong Niang (红娘) of the \"Romance of the Western Chamber\" and Yan Xijiao (阎惜姣) of \"Wulongyuan\" (乌龙院) have involved the role of Hua Dan.\n\nA Daoma Dan (, \"sword-and-horse role\") is a young female warrior. The style of performance usually involves horseriding with a spear. This category is superficially similar to Wu Dan, but there is a difference. Daoma Dan does not fight as much as Wu Dan. They do more stunts and dancing with the spear or whatever weapons they have. Daoma Dan needs to sing, which is performed while dancing or doing stunts and requires great stamina. Daoma Dan usually wears female warrior costumes with the flags behind. Examples of Daoma Dan are Liang Hongyu and Mu Guiying. \"Daoma Dan\" is also the original Chinese title of the 1986 Hong Kong film \"Peking Opera Blues\", directed by Tsui Hark.\n\nThe Wu Dan (, \"martial role\") specializes in fighting with all kinds of weapons. The Wu Dan engages in fighting with opponents besides just doing stunts. In the past, the Wu Dan needed to perform cai qiao (踩跷), which the Daoma Dan did not do. Cai qiao is a very difficult skill requiring the actress to stand on tip toe throughout the whole show. The actress will wear something akin to high heels shoes, but the heels of this special kind of shoe are so high that the actress is practically standing on tip toe. Fake small shoes are then attached underneath so that it appears that the actress has very small feet. It is an imitation of the foot binding practice. Wu Dan must master many acrobatic movements. They specialize only in fighting hence they seldom sing or speak. Examples of Wu Dan are Zhizhu Jing (蜘蛛精) of \"Pansidong\" (盘丝洞) and Hu Sanniang.\n\nThe Lao Dan (, \"old role\") are older women. They have their own set of movements and gestures and singing styles, distinguished against the Guimen Dan. The Guimen roles sing in high pitched and piercing voices while the Lao Dan sing in a lower pitched voice. Lao Dan costumes are also less vibrant compared to other female roles and they have much simpler hair styles. An example is Dowager She of \"Yang Men Nu Jiang\" (杨门女将).\n\nThe Cai Dan (, \"colorful role\") is a clownish woman. Cai Dan do not act like normal Dan and they do clownish gestures. Their movements resemble normal daily movements and they speak in normal voices. Clownish dans are now normally performed by men; hence they are physically unattractive, which is exaggerated by their hideous make up.\n\nOne of Mei Lanfang's most important contributions to Peking opera was in pioneering another type of role, the . This role type combines the status of the with the sensuality of the .\n\nIn Peking opera, the famous Dans are Mei Lanfang, Cheng Yanqiu, Shang Xiaoyun, and Xun Huisheng, all men. In Pingju, the \"Four Big Famous Dans\" \"Sì Dàmíng Dàn\") are Ai Lianjun, Bai Yushuang, Liu Cuixia, and Xi Cailian. There were also \"Four Small Famous Dans\" (四小名旦) Li Shifang, Mao Shilai, Zhang Junqiu, and Song Dezhu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19668889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19668889", "title": "Digital Command Center", "text": "Digital Command Center\n\nThe Digital Command Center was a very large remote control introduced for RCA's high-end television sets; in 1983 for the Colortrak 2000 and the SJT400 CED player and in 1984 for the Dimensia Lyceum TV sets. The main feature of the Digital Command Center was that it was universal amongst many RCA components, including VCRs, CED players, tuners, amplifiers, CD players, etc., on top of controlling the monitor itself. The Digital Command Center took four AA batteries to power, which is understandable, considering its extensive and ahead-of-its time functionality. \n\nThe initial Digital Command Center released in 1984 with the Dimensia system, the CRK35A, had 52 buttons, had onboard memory, and weighed nearly a pound with its batteries.\n\nIn 1985, RCA released the Digital Command Component System, an all audio system that was compatible with all Dimensia audio components, which also used the Digital Command Center remote. The idea of this system was to have the full functionality of the Dimensia's sound system without the need of a Dimensia monitor. \n\nIn Dimensia television systems, the remote was called \"Dimensia Intelligent Audio Video\" or \"Dimensia Digital Control\" because all of the components were integrated so that the remote could activate the entire system with the touch of one button by communicating with the built-in computer found in the Dimensia monitor via the black control jack found on all Dimensia components. This remote had 8 device keys on it; TV, VCR, VID2 (DISC), AUX, AM/FM, PHON, TAPE, and CD. Since the CED Player intended to be released with the Dimensia system in 1984 was cancelled, the VID2 button and the ability to control the CED Players was absent from later remotes. \n\nIn 1987, the Dimensia Intelligent Audio Video was replaced with a wedge-shaped remote (CRK45A) shown at the bottom of the picture above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1400545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1400545", "title": "DreamCatcher Interactive", "text": "DreamCatcher Interactive\n\nDreamCatcher Interactive Inc. (also known as DreamCatcher Games) was a Canadian video game publisher founded in 1996 by Richard Wah Kan. In 2006, the company became a subsidiary of JoWooD Entertainment. In 2011, the company went into administration along with its parent JoWooD and all assets were purchased by Nordic Games Holding. The DreamCatcher Interactive brand is currently being used as a publishing label for THQ Nordic.\n\nDreamCatcher Interactive was founded in 1996 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The company’s first title was the adventure game \"Soldier Boyz,\" closely followed by \"Jewels of the Oracle\", which achieved enough success to grow the retail business. Dreamcatcher would later release \"The Crystal Key\" which sold over a half million units in \"North America\". Continuing the company's growth, in November 2000, DreamCatcher signed with Her Interactive to publish the \"Nancy Drew\" franchise.\n\nIn late 2002, most of the assets and development teams of French-based publisher, Cryo Interactive were absorbed by DreamCatcher Interactive, forming the base for DreamCatcher Europe including key offices and a large internal studio. By early 2003, DreamCatcher was the United States' tenth-biggest publisher of games. After the acquisition of Cryo Interactive, Dreamcatcher created a publishing division called The Adventure Company in early 2003. The company also partnered with both Wanadoo Edition and Microïds, as well as other studios in the development and distribution of games including \"Syberia\", \"Still Life\" and \"ObsCure\". In 2005, the main Microïds studio was acquired by Ubisoft with Dreamcatcher retaining publishing rights to the games being created.\n\nThe Adventure Company brand label under DreamCatcher has released many adventure game series' including series' based on Agatha Christie novels. They also recently signed to release a series of titles based on \"The Hardy Boys\". Outside of adventure gaming, DreamCatcher is best known for publishing the first-person shooter \"Painkiller\" developed with People Can Fly. Painkiller became a commercial success and was signed with the CPL World Tour 2005. Dreamcatcher would also create another label, Silverline Software, around 2004 for the distribution of some non-core games and the publishing of utility software. Silverline Software would release the \"Time to Ride\" series of girl’s horse games starting in 2004, which would later be acquired by Ubisoft.\n\nIn 2006, JoWooD Entertainment announced the purchase of DreamCatcher Games as a way of increasing their presence into the North American gaming market in addition to acquiring the company's key titles and licenses. Since the acquisition, DreamCatcher Games has continued to launch titles both under The Adventure Company and DreamCatcher labels including new games created by JoWooD like the SpellForce series. In 2011, JoWooD went into administration causing DreamCatcher to file for bankruptcy. In November 2011, Nordic Games Holding announced that they had acquired all DreamCatcher assets and would be turning it into a publishing label of their subsidiary Nordic Games. Nordic Games Holding had previously acquired JoWooD and The Adventure Company in August also turning both brands into publishing labels of Nordic Games. All business operations of this brand are being conducted out of THQ Nordic AB in Vienna, Austria.\n\n\"Note: This list is for titles which DreamCatcher Interactive published. Releases of games under The Adventure Company banner are not included.\n"}
{"id": "57382458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57382458", "title": "Farai Mwakutuya", "text": "Farai Mwakutuya\n\nFarai Mwakutuya is an African journalist who has worked for Uganda's Nation Media Group and NTV. For some years he was with ZiFM Stereo in Zimbabwe. He has interviewed Dr. Lazarus Dokora who was Zimbabwe's Minister of Education, Sport and Culture, and has reported on events such as the house arrest of Robert Mugabe.\n\nFarai Mwakutuya was born in Zimbabwe.\n\nin 1998, Mwakutuya begain his journalistic career in Zimbabwe in 1998. In 2007 he relocated to Uganda. In Uganda, he worked for Nation Media Group. He also worked for NTV Uganda as a news anchor and presenter. He also co-hosted NTV's live business debate, East African Business Agenda which was broadcast in Uganda and Kenya simultaneously.\n\nIn 2011, he returned to Zimbabwe. The bid team that he was part of were able to win a licence for ZiFM Stereo. ZiFM happens to be the first privately owned radio station in the country.\n\nOn Friday, May 10, 2013, he hosted a panel forum at The Broadband Forum 2013 which had the discussion broadcast on ZiFM the coming Thursday.\n\nIn August 2016, he was moved from his previous roles of presenting Ask The MP and Enterprise to presenting The Platform, replacing Ruvheneko Parirenyatwa who presented the section on May 16.\n\nIn October, 2016, in his fourth year and still working at ZiFM, Mwakutuya was being head hunted by a television station in South Africa. Not long after that, it was reported in the November 3 issue of \"The Chronicle\" that along with hosts Kundayi Chiyanike and Candice Mwakalyelye, his position was terminated. All three were popular with the listeners and the unexpected terminations caught the audience by surprise. There were accusations that Tendai Madondo who had been promoted to regional stations managing director had something to do with it.\n\nHaving returned to the station, he was hosting a Thursday night program on January 12, 2018, featuring George Charamba, the spokes man for Robert Mugabe.\n\nIn November 2017 he was in Harare reporting for CGTN on the house arrest of Robert Mugabe during the takeover by the military.\n\nOn March 4, 2014, he interviewed Meng Qiang, a Chinese teacher who had graduated from the Confucius Institute at the University of Zimbabwe.\nIn 2017, Mwakutuya experienced a very tough interviewee in his interview with Dr. Lazarus Dokora. The interview took place during a talk show called Head-On on radio ZI-FM.\n"}
{"id": "20226924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20226924", "title": "Ferdinánd Pálffy", "text": "Ferdinánd Pálffy\n\nCount Ferdinánd Pálffy de Erdőd (1 February 1774 – 4 February 1840) was a mining engineer and civil servant of the Austrian Empire who is better remembered for his role in managing the Theater an der Wien, Vienna, in pursuit of which he lost his not inconsiderable fortune and retired from his creditors in Vienna.\n\nBorn in the Habsburg residence Vienna the son of Count Lipót Pálffy de Erdőd (1739–1799), he was a distant relative of the Imperial field marshal and Hungarian palatine János Pálffy (1664–1751). He attended the mining institute at Schemnitz, Hungary (now Banská Štiavnica, Slovakia) from 1794 to 1796, where he remained in government service before returning to Vienna in 1806 to work in the Austrian ministry of mines. \n\nIn 1807 Pálffy was among the association of court nobles that acquired the Theater an der Wien, as well as the leases of the other two theatres patronised by the court, the Burgtheater and the Theater am Kärntnertor. By degrees he became solely responsible for the court theaters, and in 1813 he acquired outright the Theater an der Wien, inducing Louis Spohr to come from his court appointment in Gotha to conduct its orchestra.\n\nCount Pálffy was a dedicated patroniser of Ludwig van Beethoven, whom he reserved an honored place in his theatre—in close vicinity to the orchestra due to Beethoven's incipient deafness. According to Spohr, he nevertheless was vociferously accursed by the impetuous composer. Under Pálffy's directorship, the Theater an der Wien saw the premiere of Helmina von Chézy's \"Rosamunda\", which sank without a trace, save for its incidental music by Franz Schubert, whose 1820 melodrama \"Die Zauberharfe\" found eight performances at the Theater, for which Schubert dedicated to Palffy his Grande Sonata in B-flat major (D 617). He found fault with Spohr's 1813 opera \"Faust\", so that Carl Maria von Weber arranged its premiere at the Prague Estates Theatre in 1816.\n\nDuring the period of his proprietorship, which lasted until 1826, he offered opera and ballet and, to appeal to a wider Viennese audience, popular pantomime and variety acts, losing money in elaborate spectacles until he was forced to sell the theater at auction in 1826, and to disperse his library and collection of mineral specimens. Fearing arrest for his outstanding debts, he fled Vienna for Preßburg (Bratislava) where he remained for several years.\n"}
{"id": "3718113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3718113", "title": "Graphic violence", "text": "Graphic violence\n\nGraphic violence is the depiction of especially vivid, brutal and realistic acts of violence in visual media such as literature, film, television, and video games. It may be real, simulated live action, or animated.\n\nThe \"graphic\" in graphic violence is a synonym for \"explicit\", referring to the clear and unabashed nature of the violence portrayed; this is what differentiates true graphic violence from lesser forms of violence in media productions, including \"real\" violence, \"cartoon\" violence and \"fantasy\" violence.\n\nGraphic violence generally consists of any clear and uncensored depiction of various violent acts. Commonly included depictions include murder, assault with a deadly weapon, accidents which result in death or severe injury, suicide, and torture. In all cases, it is the explicitness of the violence and the injury inflicted which results in it being labeled \"graphic\". In fictional depictions, appropriately realistic plot elements are usually included to heighten the sense of realism (i.e. blood effects, prop weapons, CGI). In order to qualify for the \"graphic\" designation, the violence depicted must generally be of a particularly unmitigated and unshielded nature; an example would be a video of a man being shot by me, bleeding from the wound, and crumpling to the ground calling for his mother.\n\nGraphic violence arouses strong emotions, ranging from titillation and excitement to utter revulsion and even terror, depending on the mindset of the viewer and the method in which it is presented. A certain degree of graphic violence has become \"de rigueur\" in adult \"action\" genre, and it is presented in an amount and manner carefully deliberated to excite the emotions of the target demographic without inducing disgust or revulsion. Even more extreme and grotesque acts of graphic violence (generally revolving around mutilation) are often used in the horror genre in order to inspire even stronger emotions of fear and shock (which the viewing demographic would presumably be seeking).\n\nIt is a highly controversial topic. Many believe that exposure to graphic violence leads to desensitization to committing acts of violence in person. It has led to censorship in extreme cases, and regulation in others. One notable case was the creation of the US Entertainment Software Rating Board in 1994. Many nations now require varying degrees of approval from television, movie, and software rating boards before a work can be released to the public.\n\nOn the other hand, some critics claim that watching violent media content can be cathartic, providings \"acceptable outlets for anti-social impulses.\"\n\nGraphic violence is used frequently in horror, action, and crime films. Several of these films were banned from certain countries for their violence. The snuff film takes horror to its furthest extreme as torture and murder are not simulated.\n\nViolence in films is not an old topic, recently a study presented in an annual American Academy of Pediatrics conference showed that the \"good guys\" in superhero movies were on average more violent than the villains, potentially sending a strongly negative message to young viewers. \n\nNews media on television and online video frequently cover violent acts. The coverage may be preceded with a warning, stating that the footage may be disturbing to some viewers.\n\nSometimes graphic images are censored, by blurring or blocking a portion of the image, cutting the violent portions out of an image sequence or by removing certain portions of film footage from viewing. However, more and more throughout the years, it has been a ploy for media companies to attract more and more viewers by trivializing various events like the ones mentioned above for shock appeal.\n\nGraphic and gory violence has started appearing in music videos in recent times, an example being the controversial music video for the song \"Rock DJ\" by British rock vocalist Robbie Williams, which features self-mutilation. Another example of a music video containing strong violence is the music video for the song \"Hurricane\" by American rock band Thirty Seconds to Mars and \"Happiness in Slavery\" by American industrial rock group Nine Inch Nails. The music video for \"Forced Gender Reassignment\" by American deathgrind band Cattle Decapitation displays such intense graphic violence that it is not hosted by many popular video hosting sites like YouTube and Dailymotion and is only hosted by Bloody Disgusting.\n\nViolent content has been a central part of video game controversy. Because violence in video games is interactive and not passive, critics such as Dave Grossman and Jack Thompson argue that violence in games hardens children to unethical acts, calling first-person shooter games \"murder simulators\", although no conclusive evidence has supported this belief.\n\nAn example is the display of \"gibs\" (short for giblets), little bits or giant chunks of internal organs, flesh, and bone, when a character is killed.\n\nOn the internet, several sites dedicated to recordings of real graphic violence, referred to as \"gore\", exist, such as Bestgore.com and Goregrish.com. Furthermore, many content-aggregator sites such as Reddit or imageboards and 4chan have their own subsites which are dedicated to or allow that kind of content. Some of those sites also require that gore material to be marked as it, often by the internet slang \"NSFL\" (shorthand for \"not safe for life\"). This kind of media might depict reality footage of war, car crashes and other accidents, decapitations, suicide, terrorism, murder, or executions. \n\n"}
{"id": "41591486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41591486", "title": "Happy Land (Bangkok)", "text": "Happy Land (Bangkok)\n\nHappy Land was an amusement park in Thailand. It was located in Khwaeng Khlong Chan, Bang Kapi District, Bangkok, on Nawamin Road (or Sukha Phiban 1 Road). It has been closed since 1977, and the area is now occupied by residential houses. Some of its rides were sold to Siam Park City.\n"}
{"id": "43409955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43409955", "title": "Hymnary.org", "text": "Hymnary.org\n\nHymnary.org is an online database of hymns, hymnodists and hymnals hosted by Calvin College's Calvin Institute of Christian Worship and Christian Classics Ethereal Library. The searchable database contains over one million hymn tunes and texts and incorporates the \"Dictionary of North American Hymnology\". It has received grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Hymn Society in the United States and Canada.\n\nIn addition to standard search functions, users have the ability to search for hymns by entering notes of the melody.\n"}
{"id": "13209120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13209120", "title": "Imagination Games", "text": "Imagination Games\n\nImagination Games is a multi-platform game company that creates, produces and distributes interactive entertainment.\n\nImagination Game is a subsidiary of Imagination Entertainment and part of the Imagination Group of Companies.\n\nImagination is a global games and media company with offices and distribution in United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. Imagination manages a portfolio of companies and investments that range from Aviation to Property. Imagination was awarded Most Innovative Company in America under 2000 employees and the same year Most Innovative Company in Asia Pacific under 2000 employees. Imagination’s Co-founder and CEO awarded Deloitte Innovator of the Year in 2002 and was Ernst & Young Australian Entrepreneur of the Year in 2007.\n\nImagination Ventures have donated more than $7 million to charities in Australia since 2004, with over $5 million going to the McGuiness McDermott foundation for Women’s & Children’s Hospital projects in South Australia. In 2012 Imagination purchased the rights to Humphrey B Bear one of Australia’s longest running Children’s Preschool Properties. The much-loved bear has signed on to become the Women's & Children's Foundation's \"Ambassabear\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47020955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47020955", "title": "Joseph Darby (jumper)", "text": "Joseph Darby (jumper)\n\nJoseph Darby (1861–1937) was a renowned jumper from the Black Country village of Netherton. He specialised in spring jumping (jumping starting from a stationary position) often using weights in his hands to help propel him. After taking part in competitive jumping at venues in the Midlands and North of England in the 1880s, he went on to perform at theatres in London and Paris and crossed the Atlantic to exhibit in North America. He entertained crowds by performing trick jumps and earned money in wagers with competitors. Highlights in his career included defeating the American World Champion spring-jumper in 1887 and appearing before the future King Edward VII in Covent Garden, London. After finishing his jumping career, he became a publican in the English town of Dudley.\n\nJoseph Darby was born in Windmill End, Netherton on August 6, 1861. His parents were Abraham Darby, a maker of nails for shoeing horses, and Martha Darby (née Foley).\n\nWhen interviewed in 1889 he said that he had only received ten months' schooling at the most \"and only half-time at that.\" He also said that he started work at the age of seven, making nails. When asked when he started jumping he replied \"I was always at it when a bit of a kiddy, jumping against the other lads, and I could always beat them fair and easy.\"\n\nAccording to an interview he gave whilst on a tour in the U.S., he commenced his working life making nails for horseshoes, before working in a colliery and subsequently unloading boats.\n\nAt the age of 18 he took up athletics, firstly as a professional runner over distances of 100 and 120 yards. He reportedly had success as a runner, competing 22 times and only suffering one defeat. He took up competitive jumping when aged 20 or 21. He specialised in spring-jumping where he launched himself from a standing position. He often used dumbbell-shaped weights in his hands to help propel himself for the spring jumps. \n\nIn a promotional pamphlet produced by Darby or his agent, the first competitive jump listed is a defeat of T. Hartshorn of Netherton for a £20 wager. This competition took place at the Lea Brook Grounds, Wednesbury on 8 January 1883. The contest involved a sequence of 5 standing jumps and Darby beat Hartshorn by over 2 ft., covering a distance of 20 yards 1in.\n\nDarby's next jumping competition took place on 14 May 1883, at the same sporting grounds as for his first competition, and was against W. Hughes of Kates Hill, Dudley. Darby again proved the winner in a contest where he took 15 \"rising jumps\" against his opponents 15 \"rising hops\".\n\nDarby's third contest was against Kirk of Ilkstone, Derbyshire, again at the Lea Brook Grounds on 24 September 1883. In his third victory, this time for £40 stakes, Darby jumped 35ft. 8in. in a sequence of three spring jumps. \n\nDarby now took a break from competition, working as a collier and unloader of canal boats, only returning to jumping in November 1885 when he defeated W. Fillingham of Wigan, Lancashire for £100 at the Queen's Ground, Barnsley.\n\nOn 7 December 1885, Darby lost a match to Tom Pollitt of Openshaw at the Moorfield Grounds near Manchester. For the contest, involving two forward spring jumps, Pollitt jumped first and was given a 12in start. Darby was unable to reach his opponent's mark after three jumps and so Pollitt won the £20 stake money.\n\nOn 27 February 1886, Darby took on and beat John Holland of Middleton, the contest taking place at the Moorfield Grounds, Failsworth, near Manchester. For the contest, Darby took 7 forward stand jumps against Holland's \"five run hops and a jump\". At this time, Darby was being trained by T. Walker of the Windmill Inn. Darby won the contest by 12 inches.\n\nSubsequent victories for Darby were recorded. On 26 April 1886, he avenged his previous defeat by Tom Pollitt. The event took place at the Moorfield Grounds, Failworth near Manchester for total stakes of £100. The competition involved 4 standing jumps, with Pollitt being given a yard start.\n\nOn 19 March 1887, he defeated William Brown of Leeds, Yorkshire, for £50, the jumping completion taking place at the Cardigan Grounds, Leeds. The competition involved Darby taking ten forward spring jumps against Brown's nine hops and a jump, Darby's winning margin being 3in despite Brown being given a 1 yard start.\n\nOn 30 April 1887, he defeated Bill Brown of Bradford for £50 at the Victoria Grounds, Wolverhampton, the event involving two backward jumps. \n\nOn 2 July 1887 he defeated Thomas Burrows, of Nelson, Lancashire, for £50 a-side. The competition took place at the Moorfield Grounds, Failsworth and involved Darby taking seven standing forward spring jumps against Burrows' six run hops and a jump. Darby won the contest by 3ft 5¾in.\n\nOn 29 October 1887, Darby was beaten by Daniel Dearden of Haydock, at the Swan Inn Grounds, St. Helens. For the competition, involving three jumps, Dearden had the advantage of using weights whilst Darby jumped without. However, Darby was given a two feet start.\n\nBetween December 1887 and March 1888, he defeated George W. Hamilton, then the World Champion spring-jumper in three competitive matches. Hamilton, born in Frederica, New York on 28 October 1856, had jumped 14 ft 5½in with weights at Rome, Michigan, USA on 3 October 1879. The American had come to England with Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show, in which he performed under the guise of \"Mustang Jack\". The first meeting was at the Moorfield Grounds, Manchester on 24 December 1887. The match was for £100 a-side stake money and involved ten forward spring jumps with the use of weights. Darby won the match comfortably in front of around 600 spectators, leaping over 4 ft. 5in. beyond the American's mark. The second of these meetings took place at the Leabrook Grounds, Wednesbury on 21 January 1888. At this match, the jumpers competed for £100 a side, each jumper alternately performing two stand spring forward jumps. It was reported that Darby was trained for the competition by his own brother Abel of the Malt Shovel Inn, Dudley. Darby won this competition by a distance of 2 ft 6in. For the third meeting, which took place on 10 March 1888 at the Moorfield Grounds, Manchester, the American was given a 6-inch start for the contest which involved two stand spring forward jumps but he failed three times to match Darby's distance. Darby's feats led to him being presented with championship belts including one proclaiming him to be champion of the world, which was awarded at the Dudley Fetes in 1889.\n\nTwo of his championship belts and other memorabilia are on display at Dudley Museum \n\nOn 21 April 1888, Darby avenged his previous defeat by Daniel Dearden at a competition held at the Larkhill Grounds, Farnsworth. The event, for stakes of £50 a-side, involved three forward spring jumps. Darby jumped 39 ft. 2in. and Dearden was only able to land two inches behind Darby's mark despite being given a 2 ft start.\n\nOn 6 February 1888, Joseph Darby appeared on at Bingley Hall, Birmingham as part of a testimonial benefit evening given in honour of the boxer Jem Carney. \n\nOn 10 September 1888, Darby appeared in his home village at the Friendly Societies Gala on Netherton Cricket Ground in front of 4,000 people including the local MP, Brooke Robinson. After performing a number of trick jumps, Darby then broke the record for 20 successive spring jumps that had stood at 79yards 6in., although he only required 17 jumps to pass this distance, leaping 81 yards, 1ft 6in in the process.\nAccording to an interview he gave in a French newspaper, Darby's first stage appearance before a paying public took place in October 1888, when he jumped at the Canterbury Music Hall in London again as part of a performance given for the benefit of the boxer, Jem Carney. For the performance, which took place on 18 October 1888, in front of over 3,700 spectators, Darby took the stage after several boxing bouts had been completed and reportedly \"gave the most marvellous display of jumping feats ever seen on a Metropolitan stage\". \n\nOn 29 October 1888, Darby appeared at the Grand Circus, adjoining the Molineux Grounds, Wolverhampton. Despite losing his jumping clogs on the way to the venue, he still \"succeeded in astonishing those present\".\n\nFrom 5 November 1888 to 12 January 1889, Joseph Darby performed at the Royal Aquarium, a place of entertainment in London. On his debut, he took to the stage clad in a white singlet and scarlet trousers before starting with a jump over a chair from a brick placed on end without knocking over the brick. As part of his show at the Royal Aquarium, he challenged all-comers to compete with him for a bet of between £50 to £1000. In the newspaper advertisement for his performance, 17 separate trick jumps were listed, including forwards, backwards and sideways jumps over chairs; jumping off and onto bricks placed on end without knocking them down; jumping onto and off a man's face without hurting him; jumping onto and off a seated man's head without hurting him; jumping onto a man's hat and off again without doing any damage and jumping over a horse. In addition he stated that he would break jumping records set by anyone in the world.\n\nIt was reported that during his performances at the Royal Aquarium, Darby suffered a serious injury whilst jumping over tables, snapping ligaments above and below the knee.\n\nOn the 11 and 12 June 1889, Joseph Darby performed at the Dudley Castle Fetes. After his display of jumping, he was awarded a belt by Alderman Walker of Dudley Council. The belt, made of silver and with enamelled pictures on it was stated to be of £70 value and was made by Messrs. Elkington and Co. Limited of Birmingham. The money for the belt was raised by subscription and included an enameled picture of Dudley Castle, crossed dumb-bells on ivy leaves, representations of Darby as a jumper, red cornelians mounted on gilded bosses, and the jumper's monogram.\n\nIn 1889, he wrote to the editor of the Sporting Life newspaper, challenging the jumper Jose Parker to a contest for stakes between £50 and £200, with the gate money to be used for the benefit of the Guest Hospital, Dudley. The two jumpers competed in May 1890 at Dudley Castle Grounds before a crowd estimated at over 20,000. Darby's jumping pupil Short also competed at the event, which involved a variety of stand jumps. Darby won all of the events.\n\nIn November 1889, it was reported that he had broken three jumping records at the Ashton-Under-Lyne Skating Rink towards the end of October. In the single stand jump without weights, he achieved 11ft. 8½in., beating the record by 7½in. He also broke the record for two stand jumps and for the high jump by clearing 5ft. 6in. \nOn 30 November 1889, an newspaper advertisement stated that he was playing to packed houses and that he had only one available open date for the rest of the year. His sole agent was stated to be John Taylor of Windmill End, Dudley.\n\nIn December 1889, Darby was being billed as the \"Champion Jumper of the Word\", the \"Ninth Wonder of the World\" and as the \"Flying Man\". \n\nIn 1890 it was reported that: \"Darby goes through no exceptional training unless for a special contest. He keeps himself trim by a little boxing, careful diatary, and keeping clear of alcohol almost to the extent of teetotalism.\"\n\nIn early May 1890, Darby was performing at Dan Lowrey's Star Theatre in Dublin. Darby's shoes were kept on display at the theatre bar in order to show they contained no springs.\n\nIn the middle of May 1890, Darby performed at the Bradford and West Riding Gala held at Peel Park, Bradford.\n\nIn June 1890, Darby performed at the annual sports meeting held at the Netherton Cricket Club's ground.\n\nIn late December of the same year he performed at Mr. Moss' Xmas and New Year Carnival held at Waverley Market, Edinburgh.\n\nOn 14 June 1891, Darby made a return to competitive jumping, defeating Temple Jones of Bolton at the Belle Vue Gardens, Stockton.\n\nIn February 1892, Darby was performing at Rowland's Circus, Wolverhampton, where his act included jumping 36 feet in three jumps ending with a jump over a chair placed on a table; jumping over a tank of water, lowering his feet to touch the surface of the water as he passed over the tank and springing over eight chairs placed back to back. It was at this venue where Darby performed one of his most famous trick jumps: that of clearing a full sized billiard table (minus cushions). In fact, an authentic billiard table was not available at the occasion, so a dummy table was erected. Darby was hampered in his attempt by lack of space and could only take two stand spring jumps prior to leaping the table, which he succeeded in doing on his fifth attempt.\nIn October 1892 he performed as part of a variety show at the Empire Theatre, London alongside the celebrated musical-hall performer, Marie Lloyd. George Bernard Shaw attended one of the performances and wrote: \"Now is it not odd that at a music-hall to which, perhaps, half the audience have come to hear Marie Lloyd sing Twiggy voo, boys, twiggy voo? or to see Mr Darby jump a ten-barred gate, you get real stage art\". According to an American newspaper: \"English athletes are just now flocking to the Empire theater, London, to witness the high and broad jumping feats of Joseph Darby, the champion jumper and holder of the championship belt.\" The same source reported: \"one of his favorite tricks is to place six chairs in a row and spring from a brick at one end of the line to a corresponding brick at the other. His flying feats include a leap over a chair placed on a table and over eight chairs in a row, a length of eighteen feet. He goes over a horse seventeen hands high with his ankles tied. Among his phenomenal performances are a backward spring over three\nchairs and a leap over a tank of water ten feet long, during which he lightly skims the water with his foot. His most unique feat is a jump over a chair, alighting on a man's face and jumping\nback again without injuring his assistant. As the latter is generally a choice specimen of the London tough the escape of his cheek is not to be wondered at. Darby concludes his sensational performance with a leap over a six-foot hurdle lined at the top with a bristling row of spikes.\"\n\nIn November 1892, a newspaper reported that he had won over £30,000 in jumping matches.\n\nIn January 1893, an Australian newspaper acclaimed Darby with the words: \"no athlete can boast of such a brilliant record of achievements in his own particular department as Mr Darby, who for\nthe last eleven years can show an unbroken series of triumphs gained with the utmost ease from those pseudo-champion jumpers of all countries who have considered themselves foemen worthy of his steel.\" The same source stated: \"Mr Darby is a married man, thirty-one years of age, and is living at a small village\nabout two miles from Dudley, in Worcestershire, in the same house in which he was born and brought up.\"\n\nOn 22 July 1893, Darby took on another remarkable jumper of the age, John (Jack) Higgins of Blackburn. The competition was held at the Moorfield Ground, Failsworth and involved both athletes performing a \"hop, two strides and a jump\" for a stake of £100. On the day, Higgins broke the world record for this event and Darby was defeated.\n\nOn 23 September 1893, it was reported that Darby was in his fifth week at an engagement at the \"Winter Gardens\" in Berlin\n\nIn October 1893, Darby performed at the Cirque d'Hiver in Paris.\n\nLater in the same month, he was described as the 'greatest phenomenon in the jumping line in the world' by the \"Montreal Daily Witness\" as he set out on a tour of the USA. The same source described him as being 5 ft 8¼ in tall with a 40 in chest, weighing 175 lb. In addition, it was stated that 'the muscle of his arm measures 15½ in, and the thick of the leg 28 in but the calf is remarkable for its iron quality rather than anything else'. He reportedly set out for the USA on 21 October 1893. arriving aboard the RMS Umbria at New York on October 30. In November 1893, he issued a challenge to \"jump any man either backward or forward with or without weights for from $5,000 to $10,000 a side\".\n\nIn October and November 1893, Darby was performing with a troupe in the play \"The Country Circus\" at the Grand Opera House, Brooklyn. The opening night was on 30 October 1893. Later the troupe performed the play at other venues: on 26 December 1893, Darby performed at the Olympic, St Louis and in January 1894, the troupe had moved on to Washington, where they performed at Albaugh's.\n\nDarby returned to England in February 1894, again taking the steamer \"Umbria\" for the crossing. After his arrival at Liverpool with his manager, Jack Jones, on 17 February 1894, Darby went on to Dudley where he received an \"enthusiastic reception\".\n\nIn April 1894, whilst performing at Ohmy's Grand Circus, Longton, Darby issued a challenge for all comers to compete for between £500 and £1000 a-side with a choice of between 1 and 20 jumps. Darby offered competitors a 5 ft start over 10 jumps and 10 ft start over 20 jumps.\n\nIn May 1894, Darby was performing at Hengler's Grand Cirque, Rotunda Gardens, Dublin\n\nIn June and July 1894, Darby was performing in Paris again, this time at the Cirque d'Été.\n\nDarby announced his retirement from competitive jumping (although not from exhibitions) on 23 July 1894 after winning a competition held at Dudley Castle Grounds. The Manchester Sporting Chronicle awarded Darby a Championship belt as a result of winning this contest. The belt was presented at the conclusion of the two day sports fête by the Earl of Dudley.\n\nIn March 1895, he interrupted a tour of France to appear at the Empire Theatre, Coventry, the stage having been specially strengthened for his act.\n\nIn a newspaper interview given in May 1895, Darby stated that he had performed in \"France, Germany, Holland, in fact nearly all over the Continent\". He also stated that he had performed in front of royalty in many nations, including the Prince of Wales. According to an obituary article, written much later, a special command performance had been arranged before the Prince of Wales by Lord Arthur Somerset at Evans' Rooms, Covent Garden.\n\nIn August 1895, Darby gave performances at Tudor's Circus in Cambridge.\n\nIn December 1897, Darby had a benefit performance at Walsall, taking on local jumper Arthur Boyce. For this match, it was decided that Boyce would jump in a forward direction without weights against Darby jumping backwards with weights. Before the match started, Darby entertained the crowds by leaping over a horse-drawn carriage. A newspaper reported on the event : \"on Darby entering the arena he met with a magnificent reception. A covered brougham was brought from the nearest cab stand, and at the second attempt, amid deafening cheers, Darby was over like a bird.\" Darby went on to win the match.\n\nIn 1898, he featured in a short film made by Riley Brothers entitled 'Joe Darby in his Various Jumps'. The film showed Darby \"leaping the horse - Jumping over a man and just touching his face - Jumping over water and just skimming the surface - Jumping over a large number of chairs placed near together - &c. &c.\"\n\nOn 30 August 1898, Darby suffered an injury whilst attempting to jump over a brougham at Scarborough, catching the top of the carriage as he passed over and falling forward onto his head.\n\nOn 12 November 1898, Darby briefly returned to competitive jumping when he took on Thomas Colquitt of St Helens at the Wellington Grounds, Bury, in front of 2000 spectators. The competition involved a sequence of 10 forward spring jumps without weights. Colquitt won the event and the £100 stake.\n\nOn the plinth of his statue in Netherton, it is recorded that on 19 November 1898 he was summoned for a 'Royal Command Performance' at Covent Garden where he performed in front of the Prince of Wales, the future King Edward VII.\n\nIn March 1899, Darby was again performing at the Cirque d'Hiver in Paris, where his performance included leaping over a horse-drawn carriage.\n\nIn August 1899, Darby was reported as appearing at the \"Milford Flower Show and Sports\", where his performance included jumping over a cab and over 14 chairs.\n\nIn July 1900, Darby performed again at the Milford Flower Show, when it was reported that he was unable to do one of his most popular jumps, leaping over a cab, because the vehicle did not arrive in time. It was also reported that his 9 year old son made his debut at this event.\n\nDespite Darby's fame, he never lived far from his birthplace in Netherton. In 1900 he was listed by a local trade directory with the profession of \"Champion Jumper\", living at 23 High Street, Netherton.\n\nIn later life he became the landlord of the Albion Inn, Stone Steet, Dudley. He advertised on 9 June 1900 that he had taken over this pub and he was listed as being a \"Licensed Victualler\" there from 1901 onwards. In September 1900 it was reported that he had entered a lion's cage set up on Dudley Market Place in order to settle a bet of £10.\n\nIn 1934, Darby attended the civic reception given to the Dudley-born Wimbledon tennis champion, Dorothy Round.\n\nHe died in Dudley on the 22nd of December, 1937\n\nJoseph Darby performed his jumps at a number of venues including sports grounds, circuses and concert halls. He received money for performing, often from betting on the outcome of competitions with other jumpers. The jumps themselves involved forwards and backwards spring jumps (often multiple jumps) and high jumps. In addition to competitive jumping, Darby developed a repertoire of \"trick jumps\" for entertainment purposes. Some of these jumps were over obstacles such as chairs at regular spacings. Others required dexterity such as taking off or landing on a brick. He also developed the ability to briefly touch down his feet before his actual landing, which made possible some of his more famous \"trick jumps\". For one such trick jump, a volunteer would lie on the ground in the path of the jump and Joseph Darby would appear to land on and jump off the person's face. Another such trick jump would involve jumping over a tank of water and briefly touching the surface of the water with his shoes.\n\nTo achieve jumps of greater distances or heights, Darby would sometimes employ dumb-bell shaped weights held in both hands. These could be used to provide extra momentum. It was reported in 1893 that he was using weights of 9 lb each. It was also reported that he made his jumps wearing steel-tipped clogs, albeit \"very thin and beautifully made\" ones. However it was reported that when jumping in a backwards direction he wore pumps.\n\nDarby's single forward spring-jump of 12 ft 2 ½ in, achieved without weights on October 24, 1889, stands comparison with the best achieved since then. The world (amateur) record for this event when it was still an Olympic sport in the early 20th century was 3.47m (about 11 ft 4 ½ in) achieved on 3 September 1904 by Ray Ewry.\n\nSome of his most famous achievements include: jumping over a full sized billiard table, a six-foot high jump performed with ankles tied, and leaping over a horse 13 hands high.\n\nJoseph Darby's jumping record can be found in a number of sporting annuals from his era.\nIn the Police Gazette Sporting Annual for 1897, Joseph Darby is listed as holding the following professional jumping records:\n\nStanding High Jump — 6 ft, with ankles firmly bound together, achieved on June 13, 1892.\n\nStanding High Jump with weights — 6 ft 3 in, at the third stand jump, achieved on November 6, 1891.\n\nStanding Back Jump — 12 ft 11 in, achieved on September 14, 1891.\n\nStanding Wide Jump (with weights) — 14 ft 9 in, achieved on September 19, 1890;\n\nStanding Wide Jump(without weights) 12 ft 2 ½ in, achieved on October 24, 1889.\n\nRunning High Jump — 6 ft 5 ½ in, achieved on February 5, 1892\n\nLongest Flying Jump (third of three stands) — 16 ft 4 in, achieved on November 8, 1888.\n\nTwo Standing Jumps (with 19 lb weights) — 28 ft, achieved on November 6, 1891.\n\nThree Standing Jumps with weights — 42 ft 6 in, achieved on March 4, 1892;\n\nThree Standing Jumps (without weights), 35 ft 11 in, achieved on November 6, 1891.\n\nFour Forward Spring Jumps (with weights) — 56 ft 2 in, achieved on August 19, 1889.\n\nFive Forward Jumps (with weights) — 76 ft 3 in, achieved on August 19, 1889.\n\nFive Forward Jumps (without weights) 61 ft 5 ½ in, achieved on May 28, 1890.\n\nSeven Standing Jumps (with weights) — 96 ft 4 in, achieved on Julv 2, 1887.\n\nTen Standing Jumps (with weights) — 137 ft 7 in, achieved on August 10, 1889.\n\nSix Back Spring Jumps (with weights) — 58 ft, achieved on June 13, 1892.\n\nStand, Two Hops and Jump (with weights)— 36 ft 7 in, achieved on March 14, 1891.\n\nStand, Five Hops and Jump — 71 ft 3 ½ in, achieved on June 11, 1892.\n\nThree Backward Jumps — 30 ft 9 in, achieved on October 26, 1894.\n\nThe Pittsburgh Press in November 1893 listed the following jumps in Darby's repertoire:\n\nJumps over twenty chairs placed ten feet apart.\n\nJumps over six chairs in one jump.\n\nClears two chairs 18 ft apart.\n\nJumps off one brick, end up, over a chair, lands on another brick end up, and backwards without knocking the bricks down.\n\nJumps on to a man's face while lying down and off again without hurting the man.\n\nJumps 36 ft in three successive jumps and in the third jump lands on a man's back, whilst he is lying across the edge of two chairs, and off again without hurting him.\n\nJumps off one brick, end up, over a horse 15 hands high.\n\nDarby's leap over a full sized billiard table lengthwise in Wolverhampton was mentioned in several editions of the Guinness Book of World Records. For this jump he took a running start and leapt from a 4 in wooden block, clearing the 12 ft long, 2 ft 10 in high table in one bound. This was achieved on 5 February 1892.\n\nIn 1893, a Canadian newspaper reported that: \"he has thirty-nine feats in his performance or act, the most sensational of which is his great water jump, representing a jump from England to America. In accomplishing this feat he will alight on the water and off again without wetting the upper leather of his boots. This marvellous feat has never been accomplished by any artist in this world.\" More detail of this jump was given in an Australian publication: \"a tank is set in the middle of the stage, and is filled to the brim with water. Mr Darby takes a flying leap, and as he passes over the water be descends slightly. By this downward motion he, as it were, alights on the top of the water, and flies off again without wetting the upper leather of his boots.\" When asked how he\nmanaged this feat, he replied: \"I really don't know, it comes naturally to\nme, though when I think of it myself it seems almost an impossibility.\"\n\nJoseph Darby has been linked to the Spring-heeled Jack legend. In Victorian times, the legendary character known as 'Spring-heeled Jack' was reportedly spotted at a number of locations in Britain, including the Black Country. The creature was often described as having blazing eyes and had the ability to leap great distances. Joseph Darby supposedly started a local 'Spring-heeled Jack' scare when he was spotted practising his jumping by leaping over a local canal at night time, using a miner's lighted helmet to see his way.\n\nJoseph Darby is commemorated by a statue in the centre of his native town of Netherton. The statue shows Darby in a crouched position about to leap holding weights in either hand. It is mounted on a plinth which describes some of his exploits. The statue, designed by Steve Field and fabricated by D.R. Harvey, was installed on 29 November 1991.\n\nThere is an exhibition of Joe Darby memorabilia in Dudley Museum at the Archives, including his championship belts. Joseph Darby is also commemorated in a bronze plaque set into the pavement of Dudley's marketplace as part of the \"Dudley Time Trail\" designed by Dudley borough artist, Steve Field.\n\nA radio play, entitled, \"The Astounding Joseph Darby\" written by John Edgar and directed by Nigel Bryant was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 4 July 1991.\n"}
{"id": "14343522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14343522", "title": "Kattaikkuttu", "text": "Kattaikkuttu\n\nKattaikkuttu is a rural theatre form practiced in the State of Tamil Nadu in South India. The performers – by tradition only men - sing, act and dance and the musicians accompany them on the harmonium, the \"mridangam\" and the \"mukavinai\". The terms Terukkuttu and Kattaikkuttu are often used interchangeably. However, historically the two terms appear to have distinguished, at least in certain villages, between two different kinds of performance: while \"Terukkuttu\" referred to mobile performances by two actors participating in a procession for the village deity Mariamman, \"Kattaikkuttu\" denotes overnight, narrative performances at a fixed performance space acted by an ensemble of about fifteen actors and musicians.\n\nKattaikkuttu derives its name from the word \"kattai\", which refers to the special ornaments worn by the actors during performances; \"kuttu\" refers to theatre. The audience recognizes the various characters by the shapes of their head wear and their make-up.\n\nKattaikkuttu has been performed in rural Tamil Nadu for years. In November 1990, a group of seventeen rural actors and musicians founded, on the initiative of Kattaikkuttu actor Perungattur \"P. Rajagopal\", an organization to promote their theatre in the town of Kanchipuram in Tamil Nadu. They called this grassroots collective the \"Tamil Nadu Kattaikkuttu Kalai Valarcci Munnerra Sangam\" using the name of Kattaikkuttu rather than one of the current terms of \"Kuttu\" or \"Terukkuttu\". The main objectives of the \"Sangam\" – an officially registered society - were to promote Kattaikkuttu as a theatre form in its own right and to further the interests of professional performers. Since its inception more than twenty years ago, the Sangam has developed into an umbrella organization with a number of activities including educating and training a future generation of young, talented Kattaikkuttu performers (\"the Kattaikkuttu Gurukulam\"), opening up the theatre to rural girls and women, organization of an annual theatre festival and production of new and often innovative plays. In 2009 the organization shortened its name into \"Kattaikkuttu Sangam\".\n\nMany traditional performances center on the enactment of parts of the Mahabharata; a few plays have Purana stories as their theme. To cater to a renewed interest in the theatre from urban audiences and cultural institutions, new plays of shorter and all-night duration have also been created. These plays have been successfully performed in Indian metros and abroad and have been assimilated into the repertory of the Kattaikkuttu Gurukulam’s Young Professionals Company.\n\nA few of the core plays of the traditional Kattaikkuttu repertory are:\n\nKattaikkuttu is usually performed in a religious setting and performances take place overnight: they start around 10pm and run until 6am the next morning. The occasions for Kattaikkuttu performances can be divided into the following categories:\n\nThe Kattaikkuttu Gurukulam is regularly visited by prominent scholars in the theatre world--for example, Bennington College professor Sue Rees regularly visits the school to produce short videos and documentaries which feature various Kattaikkuttu works. \n\nKattaikkuttu derives its name from the fact that a specific category of actors wear the so-called \"kattai\" or \"kattai samankal\". Kattai are wooden head, shoulder and the breast ornaments inlaid with mirror work. The kattai represent power, heroic qualities and royalty. The kattai-wearers represent superhuman – divine or demonic – warriors who are the main agents in the mythological battles around which the performances are built.\n\nThe \"acting arena\" is an open rectangular ground and the audience sits on three sides of the ground. The singers and the instrument players occupy the rear of the stage. The play begins with a musical introduction and songs in praise to several different deities. The first character to appear on stage is the clown or \"Kattiyakkaran\" (literally \"Praise Maker\"). The Kattiyakkaran is central to Kattaikkuttu performances: he provides entertainment, serves as the guardian of and opposite number for the principal characters and translates events from the epic and Puranic stories into everyday life experiences of the rural audiences. After his comic introduction, the Kattiyakkaran announces the title of the play to be performed and the entry of one of the principal characters. The stage entry of most kattai characters takes place behind a curtain held across the stage by two assistant performers. Such a \"curtain entry\" requires the actor to perform a prescribed routine of songs and dance. All Kattaikkuttu actors sing themselves, supported by the chorus.\n\nThe \"Kattaikkuttu Gurukulam\" was founded in October 2002 by actor, playwright and director \"P. Rajagopal\" and \"Dr. Hanne M. de Bruin\" to preserve and enhance the scope of the Kattaikkuttu theatre and safeguard the artistic and economic position of its future exponents. The students are marginalized, young rural people between 5 and 20 years with a keen interest in the theatre form. Located 8 kilometers away from Kanchipuram in a small village called Punjarasantankal, the Kattaikkuttu Gurukulam follows the guru-shishya system of transmission. This means that students and teachers are in constant close contact with each other in formal and non-formal settings. The Gurukulam's students are tutored in life and in all aspects of the Perungattur style of Kattaikkuttu apart from receiving a formal education.\n\nThe Kattaikkuttu Gurukulam comes under the auspices of the Kattaikkuttu Sangam. It runs its own theatre company, the Kattaikkuttu Young Professionals consisting of senior students and graduates of the Gurukulam. The girl students of the Kattaikkuttu Gurukulam have their own ensemble, the Kattaikkuttu All-Girls Company, which serves as a laboratory to experiment with gender sensitive issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "44144397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44144397", "title": "Legends of Dawn", "text": "Legends of Dawn\n\nLegends of Dawn is a single-player open world role-playing video game developed by the Croatian developer Dreamatrix Game Studios and published by Valve Corporation via their digital distribution platform Steam. It was released worldwide on 27 June 2013 for Microsoft Windows. Set within a fictional world of Narr, which spans several continents, the player is free to explore and progress at his or her own pace.\n\nIt is unknown when the developers started working on the game, however, several months prior to release Dreamatrix initiated a Kickstarter project through a proxy company Aurofinity requesting $25,000 to actually finish the game, quoting the need to finance the various plug-ins integrated in the proprietary engine. The project was successfully funded on January 18 of 2013., yielding $46,536. With $21,536 of surplus financing, the community and the critics believed they had more than enough to adequately finish the game. Upon release, multiple questions arose as to where exactly the invested money went as the game was an absolute failure in all regards, with IGN going as far to calling out Steam for publishing an obviously broken game in their review, stating: \"Legends Of Dawn isn’t just bad, it’s an embarrassment to its developers and @steam_games for selling it.\"\n\nThe game has been universally panned by critics, holding the score of 29/100 on Metacritic. It was included in IGN's round-up of worst reviewed games of 2013, with the description: \"Legends Of Dawn isn’t just bad, it’s an embarrassment.\" CD-Action gave it 10/100 stating: \"An apology is in order to everyone who fell for the promises on Kickstarter and paid for this ruin of a game.\" LEVEL commented in their review: \"A crappy system, technologically speaking it's an unfinished, irritating, and every now and then arrogant action RPG, with flaws as merits, demonstrating how to not make a game.\", giving it 20/100.\n"}
{"id": "36781249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36781249", "title": "Lily van Java", "text": "Lily van Java\n\nLilly van Java (Lily of Java), also known as Melatie van Java (Jasmine of Java), is a 1928 film from the Dutch East Indies directed by Nelson Wong. Initially meant to be produced by South Sea Film and shot by an American director, the film – which follows a woman told to marry a man she does not love – was ultimately completed by Wong's Halimoen Film. Details on its cast and performance are contradictory, although the film is recognised as the first of a long series of ethnic Chinese-produced films in the country. It is likely a lost film.\n\nThe young daughter of a rich man, already in a loving relationship, is forced to marry someone she does not love.\n\nThe first two films produced in the Dutch East Indies, \"Loetoeng Kasaroeng\" (1926) and \"Eulis Atjih\" (1927), were made by the Dutch filmmakers L. Heuveldorp and G. Kruger, respectively. Ethnic Chinese businessmen, capitalising on the success of films produced in Shanghai, China, established two production houses, one in Batavia (modern day Jakarta) and the other in Surabaya. South Sea Film, the production house in Batavia established by Liem Goan Lian and Tjan Tjoen Lian, was advertised as the first Chinese filmmaking cooperative in the country. Its first script was for \"Lily van Java\"; which the company had to pass through the (national censorship bureau) for fear of violating traditional values.\n\nAccording to JB Kristanto's \"Katalog Film Indonesia\" (\"Indonesian Film Catalogue\"), an American named Len Ross was initially booked to direct the film; Ross was reportedly in the country to film a work entitled \"Java\" for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and shot several scenes in mid-1928. The cast was ethnic Chinese, and the female stars – Lie Lian Hwa and Lie Bo Tan – were reportedly daughters of the Surabayan gangster Lie Bauw Kie and trained in silat; other cast members included Kwee Tiang An and Yah Kwee Pang. However, after Ross withdrew the script was put on hold.\n\nNelson Wong, who had formerly been booked with his brothers Joshua and Othniel to record a film for Tio Tek Djien, approached David Wong (no relation), a high-ranking General Motors employee in Batavia, for funding. With this the Wong Brother's Halimoen Film was able to finish the film. Some sources indicate that the same cast was used, while others suggest that the leading role was taken by a student from Shanghai named Lily Oey.\n\nThe silent film was shot in black and white; its intertitles were bilingual, written in both Malay and Chinese. The American film historian Richard Abel writes that the film's technical quality, like all other local productions of the time, was poor and unable to compete with imported works, and the Indonesian film scholar Misbach Yusa Biran writes that the shots were considered blurry even at the time.\n\n\"Lily van Java\" was released in 1928. Its success is disputed. The reporter Leopold Gan wrote that the film was highly successful, to the point that after several years copies were worn through from overplaying. However, Joshua Wong later recalled in an interview that the film had been a failure; David Wong is reported to have avowed to no longer fund any films after \"Lily van Java\". Lacking a backer, the Wong Brothers went on hiatus.\n\n\"Lily van Java\" continues to be recorded as the first Chinese-produced film of the area. Although the Wongs went on hiatus, other ethnic Chinese became involved in film. Several Chinese owned start-ups are recorded from 1929 on, including Nancing Film with \"Resia Boroboedoer\" (1928) and Tan's Film with \"Njai Dasima\" (1929). By the early 1930s Chinese-owned businesses were the dominating force in the country's film industry.\n\nThe film is likely a lost film. The American visual anthropologist Karl G. Heider writes that all Indonesian films from before 1950 are lost. However, JB Kristanto's \"Katalog Film Indonesia\" (\"Indonesian Film Catalogue\") records several as having survived at Sinematek Indonesia's archives, and Biran writes that several Japanese propaganda films have survived at the Netherlands Government Information Service.\n\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "16334302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16334302", "title": "List of Danish submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film", "text": "List of Danish submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film\n\nSince the inaugural award in 1956 Denmark has submitted fifty-six films for consideration for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Film, eleven of which succeeded in getting nominated for the Academy Award: \"Qivitoq\" (1958), \"Paw\" (1959), \"Harry and the Butler\" (1960), \"Babette's Feast\" (1987), \"Pelle the Conqueror\" (1988), \"Memories of a Marriage\" (1989), \"After the Wedding\" (2006), \"In a Better World\" (2010), \"A Royal Affair\" (2012), \"The Hunt\" (2013) and \"A War\" (2015). Three Danish movies have won the Oscar: \"Babette's Feast\" (1987), \"Pelle the Conqueror\" (1988) and \"In a Better World\" (2010).\n\nThe official Danish submission is selected annually in late summer by the Danish Film Institute \n\nIn 1957, Denmark became the first country to send a film with a female director to the Foreign Oscar competition (Annelise Hovmand's \"Be Dear to Me\"). Two years later, Astrid Henning-Jensen's \"Paw\" became to the first film directed by a woman to receive a nomination in the category.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2002, four out of five Danish submissions were made according to the austere Dogme 95 principles. None were nominated and none have been submitted since.\n\nThe Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has invited the film industries of various countries to submit their best film for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film since 1956. The Foreign Language Film Award Committee oversees the process and reviews all the submitted films. Following this, they vote via secret ballot to determine the five nominees for the award. Below is a list of the films that have been submitted by Denmark for review by the Academy for the award by year.\n"}
{"id": "34470868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34470868", "title": "Maléfices", "text": "Maléfices\n\nMaléfices (French: \"\"Evil Acts\" or \"Hexes\"\") is a French role-playing game created by Michel Gaudo and Guillaume Rohmer. It was published by game company Jeux Descartes from 1985 to 1994 and was the first original French-language horror role-playing game. Although it had well-crafted adventures, it lost market share to Chaosium's \"Call of Cthulhu\", which expanded on the fanbase that \"Maléfices\" itself had created. This is ironic because Call of Cthulhu was printed earlier under license by Jeux Descartes as l'Appel de Cthulhu, starting with their translation of Chaosium's Second Edition of the rules in 1984. \n\nThe core rules have been published in three editions: the 1st in 1985 and 2nd (Revised Edition) in 1988 by Jeux Descartes. The expanded 3rd Edition (288 pages long - triple the size of the earlier volumes) was printed in 2004 by \"Editions du Club Pythagore\". They began work on new material, publishing the adventures \"Danse Macabre\" (\"The Grim Dance\") and \"La Cornemuse du Vieux Jeremiah\" (\"Old Jeremiah's Bagpipes\"), and sold PDFs of the old material. The 3rd Edition was later reprinted in 2007 by Asmodée Éditions.\n\nIn 2016 Arkhane Asylum Publishing received the rights to \"Maléfices\" from Michel Gaudo. In 2018 they were crowdfunded through Ulule to began work on a new version of the game (comprising a new core book, game screen, and Tarot Deck), with new supporting material to come. They would also reissue compatible versions of the old supplements and adventures. The first reissues are to be \"Une Étrange Maison de Poupée\" (\"A Strange Doll's House\") and \"Le Drame de la Rue des Récollets\" (\"A Drama on the Street of the Recollects\"). A gaming magazine, \"L’Étoile du Matin\" (\"The Morning Star\"), would also be created that would exclusively print articles and material supporting Maléfices. \n\nMaléfices - \"le jeu de rôle qui sent le soufre...\" (\"the role-playing game with the scent of sulphur\")\n\nThe game is set during the early part of the French Third Republic (1870–1940). It is a time where the reason, science and industry of the cities is confronting the superstitions, legends, and witchcraft of the countryside. The players' characters are ordinary people, who belong to \"le Club Pythagore\" (\"The Pythagorean Club\"), an association of gentlemen (and ladies) dedicated to fighting the darkness, with the help of Faith, Science, or even Magic.\n\nThe players must expect mystery and the supernatural rather than the gore and overt fantastical elements of other horror games. However, whether the threat is a haunted house or a mad scientist, the cloven footprints of the Devil are found not far off. Much like \"Call of Cthulhu\", \"Malefices\" was about investigators trying to stop evil forces from destroying mankind but just delaying the inevitable for a while. The start of the First World War in 1914 apparently heralds the beginning of the end.\n\nThe game uses a pair of ten-sided dice and a deck of tarot cards to resolve actions. A d10 roll would use the results of one ten-sided die. A d100 roll uses one ten-sided die of one color as the \"tens\" column and one ten-sided die as the \"ones\" column to generate percentages.\n\nA color-coded table divided by percents or ranges of numbers generated by the dice indicates the results (much like TSR's Marvel Super Heroes RPG). The results are divided into \"A\", \"B\", \"C\", \"D\" and \"Failure\", like a report card. \"A\" is a perfect or \"excellent\" result that is an automatic success. The others are spectrums of success with \"B\" being \"good\", \"C\" being \"average\" and \"D\" being \"borderline\". \"Failure\" is an automatic failure, but its degree is judged by subtracting the result of the botched roll from the value of the maximum level of success.\n\nThe results are modified by drawing tarot cards, much like the Poker deck used in Classic Deadlands. One interesting mechanic is that the \"La Chance\" (\"Luck\") card grants the character an extra life when drawn and the \"La Mort\" (\"Death\") card allows the MJ (\"Meneur de Jeu\", or \"Game Master\") to kill the character whenever he chooses. An interesting effect is that players who have the \"Death\" card hovering over them might engage in risky behavior that requires the drawing of more cards in the hope of drawing a \"Luck\" card, much like a gambler in the hole might do.\n\n\"Personnages Joueurs\" (\"Player Characters\") have seven attributes: 4 Bodily attributes, 2 Spiritual Attributes, and 1 Magical Attribute.\n\nThe player first picks a profession and has to roll on a d100 chart for the Age and Constitution of the character, which affect the bodily attributes. The four bodily attributes are \"Capacités Physiques\" (\"Physical Abilities\", or Strength), \"Habileté\" (\"Ability\" or Dexterity), \"Culture Générale\" (\"General Knowledge\" or Education), and \"Perception\" (\"Alertness\"). Female characters have a period-based limitation on the professions they may choose. \"Capacités Physiques\" is based on Age, Constitution, and Profession, while the latter three (\"Habileté\", \"Culture Générale\", and \"Perception\") are just based on Age and Profession.\n\nThe two opposing spiritual attributes are \"Ouverture d'Esprit\" (\"Open-Mindedness\", or Reason) and \"Spiritualité\" (\"Spirituality\", or Faith). They are point-based and are created by dividing 20 points between them (much like the contrasting attributes in the Pendragon RPG). Characters start with a minimum level of 6 in either attribute. These attributes have a lot of in-game effects, but in general \"Ouverture d'Esprit\" gives a bonus to resist fear and \"Spiritualité\" gives a bonus to resist occult manipulation.\n\n\"Fluide\" (\"Flow\" or \"Supernatural Powers\"), the seventh attribute (with a minimum level of 5), is secretly rolled by the \"Meneur de Jeu\" for the character. It determines how well they can manipulate the supernatural realm. It grants a bonus to one of the three magical attributes (all of which normally have a base level of \"0\"). \"Seuil de Pratique de la Magie Blanche\" (SPMB, \"Threshold for Practicing White Magic\") and \"Seuil de Pratique de la Magie Noire\" (SPMN, \"Threshold for Practicing Black Magic\") are the attributes for the use of magic. \"Seuil de Pratique de la Magie Autre\" (SPMA, \"Threshold for Practicing Other Magic\") is the attribute for using Psychic powers or sensing the supernatural realm. Only the \"Mener de Jeu\" knows what the bonus is and to which form of magic it applies. This keeps magic and psychic powers a dangerous mystery to the players. To every magical effect, a number is associated, called \"Seuil de Pratique de l'Acte\" (SPA, \"Threshold for Practice of the Act\"). This gives the difficulty of the effect and the chance for side-effects and botches. \"Fluide\" rolls are handled as the opposite of Skill or Action rolls (kind of like The Devil was making the roll rather than the player). A failure means there are no consequences and \"D\", \"C\", \"B\" and \"A\" are botches. A botched roll has dire consequences, with \"D\" being minor and \"A\" being serious or even deadly for the character.\n\nThen a spread of five Tarot cards are drawn, like a hand of Poker. Four are shown to the player and one is kept secret by the \"Meneur de Jeu\" (the Dealer). They are interpreted to affect the character, granting bonuses and penalties to \"Fluide\" and the types of magic. For example \"L'Archange\" (the Archangel) and \"Le Vicaire\" give bonuses to \"Spiritualité\" and SPMB, \"Le Diable\" and \"Le Sorcier\" give bonuses to \"Ouverture d'Esprit\" and SPMN, and \"Le Grand Livre\" gives you bonuses to \"Fluide\", \"Ouverture d'Esprit\" and \"Spiritualité\". The hidden card and its influence is kept secret from the player.\n\nThe first and second edition rules came in a box set with the rulebook, adventure booklet, 4-panel game master screen, 2 ten-sided dice, 20 cardboard tarot cards, and 21 two-sided cardboard character figures with plastic standee bases.\n\nThe Tarot deck (referred to as \"le Grand Jeu de la Connaissance\" - \"the Great Game of Knowledge\") was designed by LeCordelier and illustrated by Gilles Lautussier. In the First Edition, the Tarot cards were in black and white and were unfinished pre-punched cardboard. The deck in the Revised Edition was in color and the cards were laminated.\n\nThe Rulebook was 56 pages. It contained a 2-page foreword titled \"From the Sea to The Devil\", 25 pages of rules, 25 pages of historical and cultural information, a 2-page bibliography, a Table of Contents page, and an afterword page titled \"The Bear\". The rules covered character creation, the system mechanics, the combat rules, magic rules, and the creation and use of Non-Player Characters, animals and supernatural creatures. The historical material was divided into three parts. \"France between 1870 and 1914\" was an 11-page historical essay covering the Belle Époque period. \"Chronicle\" was a 4-page timeline of French history. \"Witchcraft, Beliefs and Superstition in Nineteenth-century France\" was a 10-page essay discussing occult practices of the time.\n\nThe 48-page Adventure Booklet contained a four page article of cultural and sociological data about France at the turn of the century. It also contained the two beginning scenarios \"La Malédiction de Fontevrault\" (\"The Curse at Fontevrault\") and \"Une Etrange Maison de Poupées\" (\"A Strange Dolls' House\").\n\nThe third edition was a 288-page hardcover book.\n\nA great deal of it (136 pages total) is historical and sociological information. \"Lever de Rideau\" (\"Raising The Curtain\") is a 23-page article describing previous historical eras in French history: the First Empire [1804-1815], the Bourbon Restoration [1814-1830], the July Monarchy [1830-1848], the Second Republic [1848-1852], and the Second Empire [1852-1870]. It also discusses the great influences of the Year of Revolution [1848], the Franco-Prussian war [1870-1871] and the Commune of Paris [1871]. \"The Third Republic\" [1870-1940] is a 23-page section on the conflicting social and political concepts of the Belle Époque period [1870-1914], from the beginning of the Franco-Prussian War to the dawn of World War One. \"Chronicle\" is a 34-page timeline of French history from 1870 to 1914. \"Life in 1900\" is a 20-page section that details the lifestyle, fashions, leisure activities, and habits of the period for both the city and the countryside. The \"Belle Époque Guide\" is a 20-page section detailing printed news media, modes of travel (train, carriage and early motor cars), and communication methods (the postal service, telegraph and telephone) of the Belle Époque period. \"Crime and Punishment\" is a 20-page section on the police services, investigative and forensic techniques of the period, the Law, procedures of trial and judgement, and typical sentences and punishments. There is also a 16-page section on the scientific, spiritual, and occult theories and beliefs of the period like evolution, Spiritualism, and anti-clericalism.\n\nIn July 1900, the characters are invited by the Countess Sophie of Arbrissel to her home on an isolated country estate in Brittany. There, strange events will take place. News of a dangerous escaped prisoner...a stormy night...a Spiritualism seance...what does all this have to do with the nearby prison of Fontevrault? The characters will see their nerves tested and must use their wits to understand the Curse of Fontevrault.\n\nIn September 1902, the characters are invited to attend a session of the Pythagorean Club by its President, Monsieur Caton. This very discreet club is interested in all activities of human thought and is recruiting members of an open, inquisitive and objective mind. A strange package arrives at the club: a doll's house, which is full of mysteries. Attached to it is a letter reading: \"Businessman, to be away a few days seeks person of confidence that can keep his children. Contact Mr Léon Berthomé, Rue Pergolèse, 16th District, Paris.\" Will the characters respond to the attached announcement?\n\nThe characters attend the theater when an accident occurs. The characters must figure out what is happening.\n\nThe characters are members of \"The Friends of Rimbaud\", a literary society devoted to the poetry of Arthur Rimbaud [1854-1891]. The adventure involves the characters meeting while attending the 10th anniversary commemorative mass for the late poet, with backdrop in the towns of Charleville and Mézières in the Ardennes. They will have to unravel why one of their friends was the target of an assassination attempt. On the way they will contend with a desecrated grave, a variety of crooks and thieves, and a murderous psychopath.\n\nThe investigators go to Versailles at the invitation of Madame Hyacinthe Passelat, the local bookseller. Can we dream of a city quieter than Versailles, so close to the capital and yet so full of provincial sweetness? But should we trust appearances? Is her house truly haunted or is she prone to imaginary fears? However, it seems that in the night at the house in the Rue des Récollets, the walls cry! But how can anyone believe such a thing?\n\nWho can say what happened to Professor Labessonnier, director of the lunatic asylum at Rennes, gone nearly five months ago? Is he gone, like everyone suggests, in search of Captain Pop Plinn, one of his own patients, who escaped from the hospital a year earlier? Camille Labessonnier, the daughter of the alienist, despaired by months of fruitless searches, gathers a group of reliable friends for a last-ditch attempt. To guide them, they will have available to them the strange captain's log book, found twice on the same beach in Finistère. Is the key to the mystery hidden in the obscure prose of a madman? Can they expect to trace the two men? But what power lies at the end of this pilgrimage through the beauties and mysteries of the Breton countryside?\n\nIn the month of June, there is peace at the monastery of St. Bernard of Bel-Ange. Life goes on away from the fury of men in the quiet, unchanging rhythm of prayer and meditation. They are four monks for whom fulfillment is found within the walls of this Cistercian abbey, where they spent most of their existence and where they hope to complete it. One of their old comrades, Brother Julian, just left them. But they chased the sadness from their hearts because they are convinced that after death begins a new life. And then suddenly, everything seems to be falling into chaos. Should the cook doubt his art, the steward of his honesty, the gardener of his dedication, the librarian's ability to resist the lure of bad books? What is this storm of madness which suddenly starts to blow on the monastery? Is it a man or a demon who, in the shadow of the cloister, has vowed to plunge this house of prayer into confusion?\n\nNo, the fires never go out. In 17th century Loudun, Father Urbain Grandier, the pastor at the parish of St.Pierre-du-Marche, perished in flames at the stake. Thus ended the most famous case of witchcraft that has ever been heard. More than 300 years later, Loudon is about to feel the priest's vengeance. Will the innocent people perish? Demons lurk around the peaceful town; will they need to be paid in souls for the fires to be extinguished at last?\n\nA wave of madness is blowing through the Pythagorean Club. Judge for yourself: a fakir came to give a lecture - a young girl does not hesitate to tell us - on the secrets of his body. Then the rush of events: disappearances, killings, and prosecutions shake the club members. The press is unleashed, the capital is in turmoil - even the provinces are not immune. Amid this whirlwind of events, can you remain calm enough to oppose the terrible threat of The Tamer of Volcanoes? \n\nThe first part of the adventure is a slow-paced investigation into an assault on a club member and the disappearance and murder of a strange woman. The second part is a race against time involving a train trip into the countryside of Auvergne, the abduction of a woman from a circus, and a confrontation with a mad scientist. Includes a study of the Birman Fakirs, a short story by Ambrose Bierce, a two-dimensional cardboard cutout of an antique statue, a color poster for the eccentric Cirque de Roumanoff, and a dozen handouts and props.\n\nThe investigators buy a chest containing an old pirate flag at auction and get involved in a Caribbean deep-sea treasure hunt. They aren't the only ones, however. There is a shadowy and formidable rival group that is following their trail that is as \"greedy\" as they are. Also includes information about Voodoo and the lives of pirates.\n\n Wherein the members of the Pythagorean Club will get to know the little brother of Fantômas, which like his predecessor is: \"\"...always someone (sometimes two people), but never himself\". In this sequel to Une Etrange Maison de Poupées, the players must contend with a clever enemy out to exact his dark revenge upon them.\n\nOn the gentle shores of Lake Annecy, a great event is in the making. The charming resort of Haute-Savoie is home to the first congress of a newly founded academy of the sciences and humanities. Among the greatest scholars from around the world, the characters will be striving with the most illustrious. So much so that they can (why not?) lay claim to the presidency of the association. But while everyone gets drunk with pride in this race for honors, the characters are quickly and inexplicably struck by serious mental disorders that will only worsen. Will they end their life in an asylum, suffering from early senility just when Glory held out her arms? Unless the reality is much worse ... In these circumstances, is it really time to take their testimony seriously? Does an aquatic monster really haunt the lake bottom?\n\nA mystery that takes place in Vienna in 1907, in which a local girl goes mad from fright. The players meet Dr. Sigmund Freud, who is a consulting doctor in the case. Includes information on Vienna and the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Anarchism in Europe, and the Vienna Secession and Bauhaus movements.\n\nWhen reading a single letter takes you to hundreds of kilometers from home. Where a mysterious hand goes after the remnants of the past. Where the possessed babble incomprehensible messages. Where, after nearly 700 years, the shadow of the Baron still hangs over Bearn. Where, again and always, love and death find themselves united by blood ties. When life itself becomes unbearable. Where destinies are based, for better or for worse? Where finally no, you do not laugh when you do not see yourself in the mirror...\n\nThe story that the characters will be involved has an international dimension. Involuntarily, they will find themselves immersed in a conflict that is between the French intelligence services and their German rivals, in this case represented by a secret society: The Holy Vehm. French and Germans will try to capture the terrible secret of the Veil of Kali. Very soon they will find that it is extremely dangerous to handle dark forces ... especially when you do not control them! Perhaps had they been wiser not to attempt to lift a corner of the veil... But now it's too late to turn their backs to dark powers that once lay dormant for centuries but were woken from their torpor. There remains only one solution ... to conquer or die! The characters find themselves traveling from Egypt to Ceylon to Istanbul and then back to Paris on the Orient Express.\n\nThe adventure starts with a formal dinner, followed by a seance. On the way home, the characters witness a robbery and murder at the Musée de Cluny. The investigators must investigate the crime (and discover what Camille Saint-Saëns' composition \"Danse Macabre\" has to do with it all...). Contains historical information on the role and influence of the Catholic Church during the Third Republic and the conflicts between religious and anti-clerical groups in France between 1870 and 1900. Also includes 32 pages of handouts, including a cardboard sheet with the drawing of a triptych, the text of the poem \"Danse Macabre\" by Henri Cazalis, and a \"Club Pythagore\" membership card and letter of acceptance.\n\nOne of the characters has recently inherited an estate and a title from his recently deceased rich uncle...along with a family curse and a haunted castle. While staying at his estate in the Highlands of Scotland, he and his guests hear the mysterious sound of bagpipes playing on the moor. Who is playing the bagpipes? Who is trying to kill the host, the last member of the St.Simon family? And what secrets does the history of this noble lineage have to reveal? Contains a map of Great Britain, a London newspaper (in French, of course), historical information about Scotland from ancient to modern times (1880s), and 37 pages of handouts.\n\nThe characters have been summoned to the reading of the will of the late Count Lassary, a celebrated hunter. The will appears fake but declares that the testators are all here to search for the real will to give the Count's estate to the true heir.\n\nA scenario that was never put into production. It was advertised in the adventure \"Danse Macabre\" (2004) that it was originally going to be No. 13 in the series. \"Asmodee Editions\" also announced in 2007 that it was coming out soon, but it remains unfinished. \n\nIts title refers to an optical illusion (\"Trompe l'Oeil\") in the background of a self-portrait by Nicolas Poussin (1594 – 1665). The viewer's eyes are drawn to a colorful painting in the background over the painter's shoulder rather than to the drab-colored painter himself in the foreground. The painting is of a woman in classic garb who is wearing a tiara with a small red gem in its peak. Conspiracy theorists have said that Poussin's paintings contain secret codes or clues. Perhaps the players have to uncover a plot or conspiracy using the clues provided by Poussin's paintings?\n\nA Sorcery supplement that brings together magic rules and historic examples of spells. Black magic is used for personal purposes and can be done by making a pact with the Devil, while white magic aims for spiritual elevation. These \"sortilèges de malefices\" (hex spells) are not instantaneous and spectacular like balls of fire or curses. No, they are subtle, like protective charms and potions of Love and Luck.\n\nThis supplement covers magic and folk superstitions rather than Spiritualism and psychic powers.\n\nThe sourcebook is a series of extracts from a variety of sources about animals and monsters, rather than full of statistics or concrete depictions. It is more of an atmospheric guide to help stimulate the Game Master's imagination (and keep investigators from guessing what's really going on). It also contains a brief recounting of the magic rules from \"A la Lisière de la Nuit\".\n\nA sourcebook full of sources describing Hell and The Devil and listing famous cursed locations across France was proposed. However, the series was cancelled by Jeux Descartes in the early 1990s before it could be finished and published.\n\nThis supplement is composed of a new four-panel Game Master screen, a new color 22-card Tarot Card set, and a 32-page information booklet about Spiritualism.\n\nThe booklet is divided in 3 parts. \"Superstitions et Diableries\" (\"Superstitions and Deviltry\") is a sermon given by a horrified Catholic priest that denounces Spiritualism. \"Les Forces Invisibles\" (\"The Invisible Forces\") is by a scientist who attended Spiritualist seances and is trying to explain what he saw scientifically. \"Sciences Secrètes des initiés\" (\"The Initiates' Secret Knowledge\") is a lecture by an occultist named Dr. Theobald to a society called the \"Voiles d'Isis\" (\"The Veils of Isis\") on how occultism is superior to Science and Spiritualism.\n\nSidebars contain rules for carrying out Spiritualist rituals and using Spiritualist paraphernalia like Spirit Mirrors and Ouija Boards to aid in investigations.\n\nA proposed supplement for the Arkhane Asylum Publishing edition. It will concern the club and its prominent members.\n\n"}
{"id": "7232405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7232405", "title": "Marriage plot", "text": "Marriage plot\n\nMarriage plot is a term used, often in academic circles, to categorize a storyline that recurs in novels most prominently and more recently in films. Until the expansion of the definition of marriage to include same-sex couples, this plot centered exclusively on the courtship rituals between a man and a woman and the obstacles that faced the potential couple on its way to the nuptial payoff. The marriage plot became a popular source of entertainment in the 18th and 19th centuries with the rise of the middle class novel. The foremost practitioners of the form include some of the more illustrious names in English letters, among them Samuel Richardson, Jane Austen, George Eliot and the Brontë sisters.\n\nPost-1980 deconstructionist criticism has highlighted how the plot was a profitable publishing and ideological production that served to ensure the ascendancy of the middle class. The marriage plot was the liberal age's reformulation of the medieval romance, which excluded all but aristocratic ladies and their chivalrous knights from its epics of love. The marriage plot promises to liberate romance by making it available to greater sections of society: the middle class and to some extent, the working classes, who are relegated to comic relief in 16th- and 17th-century theater, suddenly become serious moral subjects. Today, few doubt the ennobling qualities of love, but giving that nobility of soul to anyone but nobles was an innovation to be found foundationally in the marriage plot, perhaps pioneered by Richardson's \"Pamela\", wherein a lowly but virtuous maid is raised beyond her birth through her insistent chastity and her subsequent marriage to the lordly Mr. B.\n\nFilm, which supplanted the novel as the most popular narrative form in the 20th century, did not abandon this innovation of the novel. Rather, the marriage plot has enjoyed a continued efflorescence, visible to this day in the popular film form known as the \"romantic comedy\". At its most formulaic, critics have asserted, the conventions of the marriage plot, with the cathartic closure that its marriage ending delivers to its believers, ultimately renounces politics and engagement in the world in favor of privacy and domestic bliss. We may see this, for instance, in the film \"You've Got Mail\", which resolves the political opposition between mega-bookstore boss Tom Hanks and bookshop-around-the-corner owner, Meg Ryan, by uniting its lead characters in a union that effaces the unequal distribution of capital that originally put them at odds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20228558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20228558", "title": "Martha Diaz", "text": "Martha Diaz\n\nMartha Diaz is a Colombian-American community organizer, media producer, and social entrepreneur who is best known as the founder of the H2O International Film Festival. \n\nDiaz started her career as an intern working for Ted Demme on the cable show Yo! MTV Raps. Diaz has associate produced several documentaries including, Black August directed by Dream Hampton, Where My Ladies At? directed by Leba Haber-Rubinoff, and directed by One9. \n\nDiaz has been a guest curated at NJ Performing Arts Center, the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture - New York Public Library, Museum of the Moving Image and the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences.\n\nDiaz was a part-time professor at New York University's Gallatin School from 2011-2015. \n\nDiaz in collaboration with Marcella Runell Hall created the \"Hip-Hop Education Guidebook: Volume 1\", a comprehensive collection of lesson plans and resources that educators can use to integrate hip-hop into their classroom curriculum. The book concept was inspired by Diaz, who founded and curated the Hip-Hop Education Summit with Patricia Wang from 2003-2005. In 2010, Diaz formed the Hip-Hop Education Center also known as \"H2ED\" to formalize and unify the field of hip-hop based education. \n\nDiaz conducted the first national study on hip-hop education programs and initiatives in partnership with Pedro Noguera and Edward Fergus. Diaz was a Fellow at the Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and Innovation at the National Museum of American History - Smithsonian Institution. In 2008, Diaz was the recipient of the Catherine B. Reynolds Fellowship in Social Entrepreneurship. In September 2014, Diaz was selected as a Community Scholar at Columbia University.\n\nSince 2004, Diaz has served as chair and executive director of the Hip-Hop Association, a community building 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. The Hip-Hop Association received a Union Square Arts Award, which recognizes the central leadership role played by arts and culture in providing educational opportunities for young people, building collaborations and promoting social change.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307972", "title": "Metanet Software", "text": "Metanet Software\n\nMetanet Software Inc. is an independent game development company founded in 2001 by Mare Sheppard and Raigan Burns. It is based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIn March 2004, Metanet published a platform game called \"N\", which received the Audience Choice Award at the Independent Games Festival in 2005, and the Audience Choice Award at the Slamdance Guerrilla Games Competition in 2006. \"N\" is currently in version 2.0. The company had planned to develop a new game, code-named \"Robotology\", but has since been put on indefinite hiatus. In an interview given to PC Gamer magazine, Metanet stated that Robotology will heavily feature ropes and focus on physics behavior. In early 2013, Metanet released a beta version of N 2.0 in-browser, and on May 18, 2013, released the N 2.0 proper.\n\nMetanet has also released other projects, including \"Office Yeti\", which is, according to Metanet, a free flash single-player action/puzzle/simulation game in which players assume control of a yeti who works in an office, and also stated that the game is like: \"Skool Daze + Harry the Handsome Executive + Metanet = Office Yeti\".\n\nMetanet announced that it will alternate between freeware and shareware for its upcoming releases. \"N+\" has been released on the Xbox Live Arcade service, the Nintendo DS, and the Sony PlayStation Portable. N++ released for PS4 as a timed exclusive on 28 July 2015, and it was released via Steam on August 26, 2016. It received a Nintendo Switch release on 24 May, 2018, including an upcoming limited-run physical release on the console.\n\n"}
{"id": "2903140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2903140", "title": "Mike Ploog", "text": "Mike Ploog\n\nMichael G. Ploog (; born July 13, 1940 or 1942) is an American storyboard and comic book artist, and a visual designer for films.\n\nIn comics, Ploog is best known for his work on Marvel Comics' 1970s \"Man-Thing\" and \"The Monster of Frankenstein\" series, and as the initial artist on the features \"Ghost Rider\" and \"Werewolf by Night\". His style at the time was heavily influenced by the art of Will Eisner, under whom he apprenticed.\n\nBorn in Mankato, Minnesota, Mike Ploog was one of a family of three brothers and a sister raised, initially, on a Minnesota farm. He began drawing while a young child whose imagination was fired by such old-time radio dramas as \"Sergeant Preston of the Yukon\" and \"Gunsmoke\", and such thriller anthologies as \"Inner Sanctum Mysteries\" and \"Tales of Horror\". After his parents divorced and sold the farm when Ploog was about 10 or 11 years old, his mother took the children to live with her in Burbank, California. Ploog entered the U.S. Marine Corps, leaving in 1968, after 10 years. Toward the end of his hitch, he began working on the Corps' \"Leatherneck Magazine\", doing bits of writing, photography and art.\n\nAround 1969 he began working on Batman and Superman animated TV-series at the Los Angeles studio Filmation, doing what he called \"cleanup work for other artists.\" The following season he was promoted to layout work on those' characters' series. \"Layout,\" Ploog recalled in a 1998 interview, \"is what happens between storyboarding and actual animation; you're literally composing the scenes. You're more or less designing the background, putting the characters into it so they'll look like they're actually walking on the surface\". Moving to the Hanna-Barbera studio the following season, he worked on layouts for the animated series \"Motormouse and Autocat\" and \"Wacky Races\", as well as \"the first \"Scooby-Doo\" pilot; nothing spectacular, though. It was okay; it was a salary, y'know? ... I had very few aspirations, because I didn't know where anything I was doing was going to take me\".\n\nA Hanna-Barbera colleague passed along a flyer he had gotten from writer-artist Will Eisner seeking an assistant on the military instructional publication \"PS, The Preventive Maintenance Monthly\". Ploog was familiar with it from his Marine Corps days, and knew well the art, though not the artist's name. \"I'd been copying his work for years\", Ploog said, \"because I was doing visual aids and training aids for the military for a long time\".\n\nEisner in 1978 recalled that, \"Mike came in working for me in 1967 [sic; Ploog was still in the Marines that year]. I was looking for someone who could work on the \"PS\" magazine ... and Mike sent me his material, or somebody sent it to me, I don't remember which, and I found myself in California, talking Mike into coming to work for us... We had a very happy relationship for maybe two or three years, four years.\"\n\nPloog moved to New York City and remained with Eisner for just over two years. As Ploog recalled:\nEventually, at the suggestion of Eisner letterer Ben Oda, Ploog broke into comics at Warren Publishing, doing stories for the company's black-and-white horror-comics magazines. A Western sample he showed Marvel got him a callback to draw \"Werewolf by Night\", which premiered in \"Marvel Spotlight\" #2 (Feb. 1972). As Ploog recalled,\nAfter three stories in \"Marvel Spotlight\", the feature spun off onto its own book. Ploog then helped launched the initial, Johnny Blaze version of the supernatural motorcyclist Ghost Rider, in \"Marvel Spotlight\" #5 (Aug. 1972), and drew the next three adventures.\n\nThe specifics of the character's creation are disputed. Roy Thomas, a Marvel writer and the editor-in-chief at the time, recalls, \nFriedrich has responded that,\nPloog recalled, in a 2008 interview:\nPloog and writer Gary Friedrich collaborated on the first six issues of Marvel's \"The Monster of Frankenstein\" (Jan.-Oct. 1973), the initial four of which contained a more faithful adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel than has mostly appeared elsewhere; comics historian Don Markstein said, \"It was faithful to the story even to the point of leaving the monster trapped in the ice at the end — so of course, the fifth issue began with him being rescued.\" In a 1989 interview, Ploog said, \"I really enjoyed doing \"Frankenstein\" because I related to that naive monster wandering around a world he had no knowledge of — an outsider seeing everything through the eyes of a child.\" The following year, Ploog teamed with writer Steve Gerber on \"Man-Thing\" #5-11 (May-Nov. 1974), penciling a critically acclaimed series of stories involving a dead clown, psychic paralysis in the face of modern society, and other topics far removed from the usual fare of comics of the time, with Ploog's cute-but-creepy art style setting off Gerber's trademark intellectual surrealism.\n\nPloog's other regular titles at Marvel were \"Planet of the Apes\", \"Kull the Destroyer\" and the series \"Werewolf by Night\". Ploog also drew the Don McGregor story \"The Reality Manipulators\" in the black-and-white comics magazine \"Marvel Preview\" #8 (Fall 1976), and the Doug Moench feature \"Weirdworld\" in the color comic \"Marvel Premiere\" #38 (Oct. 1977), among other items.\n\nHe left Marvel following what he describes as \"a disagreement with Jim Shooter. I had moved to a farm in Minnesota, and agreed to do a hand-colored 'Weirdworld' story. Marvel backed out of the deal after I had started. I can't remember the details, but it doesn't matter. I think I was ready to move on.\" Marvel and I were both changing. I finished off a black-and-white Kull book that was my last comic for many years.\" Richard Marschall, editor of what was to be a 60-page \"Weirdworld\" by Ploog and writer Moench for one of the \"Marvel Super Special\" series of one-shots, said at the time that Ploog had been given four months to complete the art, and when it became evident the deadline would not be met, arranged to publish the story in two 30-page installments, giving Ploog two more months. Ploog sent Marvel photocopies of the first 31 pages, and was paid for them. During this time, Marvel had given work-for-hire contracts to its freelancers, many of whom, including Ploog, Frank Brunner, Jack Kirby, Don McGregor, Roger Slifer, and Roger Stern, refused to sign, resulting in cessation of work for Marvel. Ploog \"took himself off the project,\" said Marschall, and retained his original artwork. Moench's script was eventually published as a 106-page story illustrated by penciler John Buscema, inker Rudy Nebres, and airbrush colorist Peter Ledger as the three-part \"Warriors of the Shadow Realm\" in \"Marvel Super Special\" #11-13 (Spring - Fall 1979).\n\nMarginalia includes some work for \"Heavy Metal\" magazine in 1981, and three \"Luke Malone, Manhunter\" backup features in the Atlas/Seaboard title \"Police Action\" #1-3 (Feb., April, June 1975), the first of which he also scripted.\n\nPloog returned to the movie industry. By his account, he has worked in post-production on the movie \"Ghostbusters\" (\"All that stuff you saw on cereal boxes are my paintings\") and with film director Ralph Bakshi on the animated features \"Wizards\", \"The Lord of the Rings\", and \"Hey Good Lookin'.\" He was production designer on \"\" (1988), and has storyboarded or done other design work on films including John Carpenter's \"The Thing\", \"Superman II\", \"Little Shop of Horrors\" and \"The Unbearable Lightness of Being\", and, he says, several Jim Henson Company projects, such as the films \"The Dark Crystal\" and \"Labyrinth\" and the TV series \"The Storyteller.\"\n\nBetween movies, Ploog illustrated \"L. Frank Baum's the Life and Adventures of Santa Claus\" (1992; ), a graphic novel adapting \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\" creator's 1902 novella.\n\nWith old colleague Steve Gerber, Ploog drew the Malibu Comics one-shot \"Sludge: Red X-Mas\" (Dec. 1994), but otherwise remained away from comics for another decade before teaming with veteran writer J.M. DeMatteis on the CrossGen fantasy \"Abadazad\" (May 2004).\n\nPloog has illustrated cards for the \"\" collectible card game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127374", "title": "New Interfaces for Musical Expression", "text": "New Interfaces for Musical Expression\n\nNew Interfaces for Musical Expression, also known as NIME, is an international conference dedicated to scientific research on the development of new technologies and their role in musical expression and artistic performance. Researchers and musicians from all over the world gather to share their knowledge and late-breaking work on new musical interface design.\n\nThe conference began as a workshop (NIME 01) at the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI) in 2001 in Seattle, Washington, with the concert and demonstration sessions being held at the Experience Music Project museum. Since then, international conferences have been held annually around the world:\n\n\nThe following is a partial list of topics covered by the NIME conference:\n\n\nOther similarly themed conferences include\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27976902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27976902", "title": "New Movietone Follies of 1930", "text": "New Movietone Follies of 1930\n\nNew Movietone Follies of 1930 is a 1930 American Pre-Code musical film released by Fox Film Corporation, directed by Benjamin Stoloff. The film stars El Brendel and Marjorie White who also costarred in Fox's \"Just Imagine\" in 1930.\n\nThe film is a follow-up to \"Fox Movietone Follies of 1929\" and has sequences filmed in Multicolor. An archival 35mm print of the film is in the collection of the UCLA Film and Television Archive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40876156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40876156", "title": "Oedipus Rex (1957 film)", "text": "Oedipus Rex (1957 film)\n\nOedipus Rex is a 1957 film, a film version of the Canadian Stratford Festival production of the William Butler Yeats adaptation of the play \"Oedipus Rex\" by Sophocles.\n\nThe actors performed wearing masks, as was the practice in Ancient Greek theatre.\n\nAfter the film was released comedic musician Tom Lehrer, noting that the film lacked a theme song \"the people could hum\", composed \"Oedipus Rex\", a satirical \"theme song\" for the film. The song is included on Lehrer's album \"An Evening Wasted With Tom Lehrer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39411845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39411845", "title": "Ojos azules (song)", "text": "Ojos azules (song)\n\nOjos azules is a traditional huayno|taquirari song of the Andean region, authored by the bolivian composer from Oruro, Gilberto Rojas in 1947. This song is very popular in Bolivia, Peru, Northern Chile and Argentina. The Bolivian song with a taquirari rythm, \"Ojos Azules\", became well known in the Andean region when the famous Argentinian singer, Mercedes Sossa, recorded her version in the 1960s. The song was also recorded by Los Panchos from Mexico. Both Mercedes Sossa and Los Panchos recognized the bolivian Gilberto Rojas as the author of \"Ojos Azules\". A blogspot, sentimientoandinolatam, erroneously attributes the song to the peruvian Manuel Casazola Huanco. Nothing is known about Huanco except that he was born in Cuzco. <https://elfulgor.com/noticia/228/gilberto-rojas-el-orureno>\n\n"}
{"id": "12838651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12838651", "title": "Paul Bouche", "text": "Paul Bouche\n\nPaul Bouche is an EMMY award winning television producer & media personality. Paul is the host, creator and producer of a variety of television and radio programs and serves as CCO (Chief Creative Officer) of Astracanada Productions Inc. a Media Production Company based in Miami Florida since 1995. Paul has worked as a TV and Radio Host and Comedian in the United States and Latin America, performing as a Stand Up Comedian and on air television and radio personality. He is best known for creating and hosting the television show \"A Oscuras Pero Encendidos\" from 1995 to 2001. He launched \"La Boca Loca de Paul,\" in 2007, a daily variety show originated in Miami which continues to air in syndication in various markets in the United States, Puerto Rico and Latin America.\n\nPaul produced and hosted \"A Oscuras Pero Encendidos\" (In The Dark But Turned On) from 1995 until 2001. It was the first Late Night Show specifically designed for the US Hispanic Market. In 1997, Paul received an Emmy Award from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. After starting as a local Miami production, in 1998 Galavisión (Univision's cable network) signed a distribution deal to carry \"A Oscuras Pero Encendidos\" via cable TV to national Hispanic audiences in the United States. In June 2000 the Telemundo Network signed the show for National TV broadcast in America and Puerto Rico. Led by Paul \"A Oscuras Pero Encendidos\", spent 6 years on the air and generated over 1100 hours of entertainment content for Hispanics in America.\n\nIn 2000, he launched the humorous talk show \"Sobre Ruedas\" for WQBA 1140AM, a Univision Radio station in the city of Miami.\n\nIn September 2001, Paul launched the national morning drive show \"Arriba Con Paul\" for the Radio Unica Network reaching 80% of the Hispanic Market in the United States.\n\nIn 2004, Paul hosted the Spanish Language version of the hit British television comedy talk show “So Graham Norton” co-produced by So Television, Zeal Entertainment and Astracanada Productions Inc. in London.\n\nIn 2006, Paul hosted the “Advertising Age Hispanic creative Advertising Awards” gala.\n\nIn 2007, Paul returned to television with \"La Boca Loca De Paul\" (Paul's Crazy Mouth) a daily(Monday-Friday)variety and comedy talk show. Since its inception the show generated substantial rating increases in its time period.\n\nIn 2009, he was tapped by Univision's sister Network Telefutura to help launch and co-host of the national TV gossip show entitled \"La Tijera\".\n\nIn 2011, \"La Boca Loca De Paul\" launched nationally in the US and Puerto Rico through Mega TV. and in the Dominican Republic. The format was able to score top ratings for the station in the 18-49 and 25 to 54 demographics.\n\nIn 2012, Paul conducted an international media seminar in San Jose, Costa Rica attended by 20 media companies \n\nIn 2014, Paul was invited by the Association of Independent Commercial Producers AICP to co-dictate the seminar \"Advertising and Entertainment: a combined world of ideas\" \n\nIn 2018, Paul developed and produced the Online and TV series OFFSIDE a TV Format created by Astracanada Productions. OFFSIDE is a Sports Entertainment Late-night Variety Comedy Show. A mix of celebrity interviews, games, characters, discussion panels, comedy segments and over all fun. \n\nBefore founding Astracanada Productions in 1995, Paul worked in different production capacities for national broadcasting companies such as NBC, ABC and MTV. He began his on camera work in 1992 performing in New York in various Standup Comedy shows and participating as a guest star in popular sitcoms and entertainment programs like “ La Pension de Doña Tere”, “En Casa de Juanma Roman” and \"Videoteces\" in a variety of supporting roles. With Astracanada Productions, Paul has created, developed and produced over 6000 hours of entertainment content in Spanish and English for Telemundo, Galavisión, América TV, Family Channel, USA Broadcasting, America TeVe, Caracol Television, Mega TV, Zeal Television-(London) and Casa Club TV, Univision Radio and Radio Unica among others.\n\nIn addition to his professional work in broadcasting, Paul conducts media workshops and seminars for private and public entities as well as lectures at various universities in the US and abroad.\n\nPaul received an Emmy Award from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences for television work in 1997.\n\nHe received the Keyes to the City of Miami in 1998.\n\nIn 1999 US Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen recognized Paul with the US Capitol Flag in recognition of his contributions to the industry of Spanish Language TV in America.\n\n"}
{"id": "10417011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10417011", "title": "Prairie Lindy Exchange", "text": "Prairie Lindy Exchange\n\nPLEX, or Prairie Lindy Exchange, is an acronym used in various lindy exchanges in central North America. Historically, PLEXes are smaller than most lindy exchanges. Unlike most lindy exchanges, the hosting city may be different each successive PLEX.\n\nPLEXes usually take place over a weekend. Lindy bombing, live band dances, and a few workshops are typical events scheduled during an exchange. Rates are typically very inexpensive.\n\n"}
{"id": "1251660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251660", "title": "Pro-Line", "text": "Pro-Line\n\nPro-Line Racing is a manufacturer of wheels, tires, accessories and bodies for 1/10-scale on- and offroad radio-controlled cars.\n\nThe company was founded in 1983 in Beaumont, California, United States and is headquartered there. It quickly established a name for itself as a producer of quality products by capturing seven offroad national championships in 1992.\n\nIn 1993, tires swept both the 2WD and the 4WD classes at the , the company's second and third World Championship titles. 1995 saw Pro-Line win its fourth and fifth IFMAR World Championships at Japan's Yatabe Arena.\n\nThat same year, Pro-Line Racing purchased independent body manufacturer PROTOform Race Bodies, retaining founder Dale Epp to expand the company's market share. That partnership continues today and has placed Pro-Line Racing near the very top of the R/C body market.\n\nTheir marketing strategy has expanded in recent years to include PLUGZ, a series of custom Class II and Class III trailer hitch receiver covers for full-sized vehicles as well as So Real 1/24-scale diecast static car models.\n\n"}
{"id": "1651791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1651791", "title": "Pure Pwnage", "text": "Pure Pwnage\n\nPure Pwnage (pronounced \"pure ownage\")\nwas a Canadian Internet-distributed, mockumentary series from ROFLMAO Productions. The fictional series purports to chronicle the life and adventures of Jeremy (played by Jarett Cale), a Canadian and self-proclaimed \"pro gamer\". In 2010, an adaptation of the web series began airing on Showcase, a Canadian cable television channel, but the series failed to be picked up for a second season.\n\nJeremy (played by Jarett Cale) also known as \"teh_pwnerer\" is extremely proficient at video games but inexperienced when it comes to normal social interactions. Jeremy is only interested in \"pwning n00bs\" and making it as a pro gamer and often comes off as lazy and narcissistic to other people. Kyle (played by Geoff Lapaire) is Jeremy's brother and an aspiring film-maker. Kyle decides to film a documentary of Jeremy's exploits as a gamer and his interactions with the gaming and non-gaming world. In 2012, it was announced that the crew are making a Pure Pwnage film with funding by their fans.\n\nThere are currently eighteen web episodes available to the public and eight TV episodes.\n\"Pure Pwnage\" was created by Geoff Lapaire and Jarett Cale who also play the show's main protagonists. Originating in 2004, eighteen Internet-distributed episodes of the series have been released to date. In 2007, the series creators estimated their current viewer base to be over three million. The series is filmed primarily in Toronto, Ontario, but has also included scenes filmed in Calgary, Alberta; Montreal, Quebec; Aurora, Ontario; Hamilton, Ontario; and the Netherlands.\n\nDuring an interview, director Geoff Lapaire (although as \"Kyle\"; Lapaire maintained his \"Kyle\" identity among fans and media) insisted that all of the characters on the show are not acting. He suggested that the personalities on \"Pure Pwnage\" display their true-to-life abilities and eccentricities, and the characters took great pains to maintain that the \"Pure Pwnage\" world is simply an extension of the real world. Lapaire has finally admitted that they are in fact actors. The sixth fanchat with the crew was out-of-character, where the fact that the characters within \"Pure Pwnage\" are exaggerated versions of the actors was confirmed.\n\nOn August 6, 2009, it was announced that a \"Pure Pwnage\" TV series had been commissioned by Showcase. Upon the announcement, many members of the \"Pure Pwnage\" fan community raised concerns. The main complaints were that the series was only announced to be airing in Canada, and the assumption that it would be changed in order to appeal to viewers not familiar with internet culture. Jarett Cale, who writes the show and plays Jeremy, tried to quell the complaints on the \"Pure Pwnage\" forums, saying \"We're doing our best to get it broadcast in the USA, UK, Australia, etc., but it's really up to each country's respective broadcasters. \"[...]\" Geoff and I are still the main creative force – we're producers and writers. We've also brought on many new people with experience in traditional television to help us out both story-wise and production-wise. FPS Doug will still be there, and he will still be played by Joel Gardiner.\" In response to a user asking if the TV series meant there would be no more web episodes, he said \"Nope, it only means there's a new TV series.\"\n\nDespite this, the future of the web series was uncertain. Geoff Lapaire, director of all previous episodes of \"Pure Pwnage\", left the show in September 2008 to focus on the then-unannounced TV series, and Troy Dixon, who played T-Bag in the series, died in a car accident on December 6, 2008. Jarett Cale announced in January 2009 that work on the next web episode had begun, with him as the director, however the episode has not been released.\n\nIn a short Livestream cast on March 15, 2010, a user posted a comment regarding the web series and Jarett replied that the web series is back in production and is in progress. He has not given out an ETA.\n\nOn January 19, 2011, Jarett made an announcement on the Pure Pwnage forums that the TV series had not been picked up for a second season. Additionally, the web series has been put on indefinite hold. In his own words, \"My hope that Pure Pwnage will see a proper ending to its illustrious web series has nearly vanished. I've let Geoff know that should he be willing at any time to resume some of his traditional, critical roles on the web series I will fly home to Toronto in a heartbeat to help make it happen.\"\n\nOn September 18, 2012 The Pure Pwnage YouTube channel uploaded a video titled \"010100100100010101010100010101010101001001001110\" which is a binary encoding of the word \"Return\", signalling the return of the Pure Pwnage.\n\nOn September 19, 2012, an official crowd funding campaign was announced to aid in the funding of a Pure Pwnage movie. The $75,000 goal was raised in just over 24 hours, due to overwhelming support from fans all over the world. At the end of the campaign, a total of $211,300 was raised.\n\nOn November 22, 2015, the official trailer was released. The movie premiered in Toronto on January 23, 2016 at the Bloor Cinema. Further screenings took place around the US and in the UK.\n\nOn May 7, 2016, Pure Pwnage Teh Movie was released for streaming and digital download via Vimeo.\n\nPure Pwnage Teh Movie received the Canadian Comedy Awards 2016 award for best feature film. The film was well-received by general audiences.\n\nOn August 6, 2009, it was announced that a \"Pure Pwnage\" TV series had been commissioned by Showcase. The announcement was made in the form of a mini-episode where Kyle tries to convince Jeremy to stop playing on his Nintendo DS Lite and make the announcement. The series had been teased for several months under the name \"Project X\". The TV series premiered on Showcase March 12, 2010, and premiered on Australia's ABC2 on October 4, 2010. According to creator Jarett Cale, the TV series itself takes place in a fictional world within the Pure Pwnage universe (webseries) where Kyle ironically got a TV series, thus explaining the lack of consistency between shows.\n\nStarting in March 2010, the \"Pure Pwnage\" website began letting fans send Jeremy questions via e-mail. Jeremy then answered the fan questions in video segments posted on the website titled, \"Jeremy's Mail Sac\".\n\nStarring Dave (Dawei) as himself, \"Pro at Cooking\" is a spin-off of \"Pure Pwnage\". A cooking show for gamers with Dave hosting as the main chef. When his female assistants do not perform as expected, Dave constantly fires each one of them usually after every episode. Directed by Davin, it has only aired seven 5- to 10-minute episodes. No other characters from \"Pure Pwnage\", excluding Dave, Davin, and Geoff, appear on the show.\n\nFrom February 28, 2006 to March 7, 2007, the \"Pure Pwnage\" website featured a regularly issued comic, of which a new page was released once every two to three weeks. Apparently set in the \"real world\" rather than in the fictional world of \"Pure Pwnage\", the comic breaks most of the fourth wall of the show. For example, Dave said in the show that he was leaving it due to unfinished business in China, the comic claims that the real reason was that he had found a new job in Vancouver.\n\nHowever, both the show and comic clearly contain elements that are either symbolic representations of reality (for example, pwning an opponent with \"micro balls\" as a possible metaphor for pwning them in an actual video game) or are not based in reality whatsoever.\n\nIn September 2012, series creators Jarett Cale and Geoff Lapaire announced an indiegogo campaign to raise funds for a Pure Pwnage feature-length film. Within 24 hours of the campaign being launched, the project had received their goal of $75,000, and by the end of the campaign, they had reached a total of $211,300. Despite this being a relatively small film budget, Jarett Cale and Geoff Lapaire have said that with their experience of making the web series with an extremely limited amount of funds, they are confident that they would be able to make a quality film shot in countries across the world, mentioning hopes of filming in South Korea. Pre-production began in earnest in early 2013, with weekly twitch.tv livestreams in which Lapaire, Cale, and guests such as Joel Gardiner (fps_doug) and Miranda Plant (Tagi) discuss the film and interact with fans.\n\nThe film premiered on January 23, 2016, in Toronto, Ontario. Following this, Cale and Lapaire took the film to the road, screening the project around the world in a touring limited release.\n\nOn May 7, 2016, Pure Pwnage Teh Movie was released for streaming and digital download on Vimeo.\n\n"}
{"id": "39395669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39395669", "title": "Reinald Werrenrath", "text": "Reinald Werrenrath\n\nReinald Werrenrath (August 7, 1883 – September 12, 1953) was an American baritone opera singer, who also recorded popular songs and appeared regularly on radio in the early decades of the twentieth century.\n\nHe was born in Brooklyn, New York, the son of George Werrenrath, an operatic tenor born in Denmark. He studied at New York University, and made his operatic debut in 1907 in \"Die Meistersinger\". He also recorded for Edison Records in 1907, before a long recording career with the Victor Talking Machine Company. He sang on several hundred Victor recordings between 1906 and 1929, both as a soloist and as part of various vocal ensembles such as the Orpheus Quartet and the Victor Opera Quartet. His most commercially successful recordings included \"As Long As The World Rolls On\" (1907), \"Hello Frisco!\" (from \"Ziegfeld Follies of 1915\"), and \"Smilin' Through\" (1919).\n\nWerrenrath made his debut at the Metropolitan Opera in 1919, in \"Pagliacci\", in a cast that also included Enrico Caruso. He also toured widely, and made over 3,000 concert appearances. He was one of the first singing stars to appear regularly on radio, notably on radio station WEAF in New York. In 1930, he made a private recording of Christmas greetings accompanied by Harpo Marx and others. In 1932, he became a member of NBC's music staff, and in later years devoted himself mainly to teaching, at the Peabody Conservatory in Baltimore, Maryland and elsewhere. He also ran a regular summer music school at Chazy Lake, New York.\n\nHe was married three times. He died on September 12, 1953 in Plattsburgh, New York, after suffering a heart attack while at Chazy Lake.\n\nHis home on Chazy Lake, Werrenrath Camp, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2010.\n\nStreaming audio\n"}
{"id": "485075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=485075", "title": "Saturday Night at the Movies", "text": "Saturday Night at the Movies\n\nSaturday Night at the Movies was a weekly television series on TVOntario, the public educational television network in Ontario, Canada. The series presented classic movies, followed by interviews and feature segments with directors, actors and other people involved in making the films presented. \n\nThe show was initially formatted in this way due to requirements that all programming shown on TVO (including dramatic programming) needed to contain educational elements, which was usually accomplished by including interviews and analysis of the programming. Nevertheless, even after these requirements were dropped, the format was maintained; all told, the series presented almost 1,500 films and over 1,000 interviews.\n\nThe show was produced for much of its run by Risa Shuman. \n\nFirst aired on March 30, 1974, the program was originally hosted by Elwy Yost. The first film shown was Ingmar Bergman's \"Through a Glass Darkly\". During Yost's 25-year tenure as host, he showed a variety of foreign films, but tended to concentrate on Hollywood-produced films from the 1930s through the 1950s, slowly expanding into also showing films from the 1960s and 1970s as the series progressed. For a number of years, however, the show was not able to broadcast films from the Warner Bros. studio, as TVOntario's transmitter in Windsor created a programming rights conflict with stations in Detroit.\n\nIn his final decade hosting the show, Yost lived in Vancouver, British Columbia, and would travel to Toronto to prepare many episodes of the show at once.\n\nYost retired as host of the series in 1999. The last film he presented was, atypically, a recent Hollywood blockbuster: \"Speed\" was personally chosen by Yost to conclude his run as host, as it was written by his son, screenwriter Graham Yost. Around the same time as his retirement, he was inducted into the Order of Canada.\n\nSoon after Yost's retirement, the Progressive Conservative government of Mike Harris appointed Isabel Bassett as chair of TVOntario, with a mandate to refocus the network's broadcast schedule more clearly on education. Although there was some concern that the network would lose \"Saturday Night at the Movies\", its highest-rated program, Bassett instead negotiated an agreement with York University to include the series in its film studies curriculum.\n\nYost was replaced as host for one season by Shelagh Rogers, concurrently with her continuing role as host of CBC Stereo's classical music program \"Take Five\". When Rogers became the host of CBC Radio's morning news program \"This Morning\" in 2000, she left \"Saturday Night at the Movies\", which briefly changed to a hostless format. At this time, the series added a Sunday night companion series, \"Sunday Night at the Cinema\", which focused more on international film.\n\nThe program was then hosted by Johanna Schneller for two seasons beginning in 2004. The show's final host, for the remainder of its run, was Thom Ernst.\n\nOn November 13, 2012, it was announced that TVO would cancel \"Saturday Night at the Movies\" as of the end of the 2012-2013 season, amidst budget cuts incurred by the network. The final edition of \"Saturday Night at the Movies\" was broadcast on August 31, 2013, featuring two foreign films as its last movies: \"The Lives of Others\" (at 8 P.M.), and \"Black Book\" (starting at 10:50 P.M.) \n"}
{"id": "1531707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1531707", "title": "Space pirate", "text": "Space pirate\n\nSpace pirates are a type of stock character from science fiction.\n\nSpace pirates operate as pirates in outer space and travel by spacecraft, as opposed to the more traditional pirates on the high seas of Earth, who travel by ship. However, just as traditional seafaring pirates target sailing ships, space pirates serve a similar role in sci-fi media: they capture and plunder spacecraft for cargo, loot and occasionally they steal the entire spacecraft itself, and kill or enslave the crewmembers and any passengers found. However, their dress and speech may vary; it may correspond to the particular author's vision of the future, rather than their seafaring precursors. On the other hand, space pirates may be modeled after stereotypical sea pirates. They may be humans who originate from Earth, or a specific race of aliens. Space pirates are common in space opera and soft science fiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53827880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53827880", "title": "Stacey Roy", "text": "Stacey Roy\n\nStacey Roy (born February 9) is a Canadian actor, producer, host, live broadcaster and content creator. She runs Whabam Media with her partner Mike Parkerson.\n\nRoy was born in Banff, Alberta, Canada to Teresa and Kurtis Roy. She was crowned Miss Teen Red Deer and Miss Teen Calgary in 2005. She later moved to Vancouver, British Columbia where she graduated from Vancouver Film School in Acting for Film and Television.\n\nRoy's screen debut was in 2010 with the role of Jane in . Between 2010 and 2012, she acted and auditioned for several roles while learning the art of bartending at Uva Wine Bar, which inspired her first show, The Nerdy Bartender.\n\nRoy met Mike Parkerson in 2012 and they created a film production company called Whabam Media. In 2013, she designed her costume for her second fan film \"Starcraft: Hunt for Kerrigan\", which was nominated for Best Action Short at the Geeksboro Film Fest in 2015.\n\nRoy's first cosplay convention was in 2013 at Vancouver Anime Revolution where she dressed as Princess Daisy from her Smash Bros fan film. Her next short film, Silent Hill, was inspired by the P.T trailer released in 2014. Shortly after release, she was interviewed by Konami where she revealed her other company Vancosplay Photography which she ran with Ryan Cooper Vancosplay focused on high quality composites rather than typical convention photography but closed in 2016.\n\nIn 2015, Whabam Media released the trailer for Overwatch Legacy. Roy submitted the video for the Blizzcon Video Contest but it didn’t place. It did gain attention from IGN and Kotaku for her cosplay as Tracer and she was named one of the top cosplayers alongside Jessica Nigri, by IGN.\n\nIn 2016, co-hosted episode 150 of The Attack with Alex Corea.\n\nBetween 2014 and 2015, Roy worked with YouTubers IFHT both in acting and producing capacities. The videos include How to be a DJ, How to be a Filmmaker and Bad Ways to Get Rid of Your Girlfriend. She also worked with YouTubers Film Riot shooting behind the scenes for a series of DJI commercials.\n\nLater in 2015, Roy played Harley Quinn in the Leo Award nominated fan film Nightwing: The Darkest Knight directed by Matthew Campbell. Her work with the character was praised.\n\nIn 2016, Roy began to switch from YouTube to Twitch. She launched several shows on the channel such as The Nerdy Bartender (a talk show featuring special guests and thematic crafted drinks), Heads Up (a Virtual Reality talk show with industry guests and gameplay interaction), Table of Terror (a seasonal, tabletop Dungeons and Dragons experience with recurring guests), Winesday Gaming (a more traditional gaming show), “Cooking” with Stacey (a competition show with a different ingredient or theme each week) and The Stacey Roy Podcast.\n\nIn 2016, Roy and Parkerson transformed their garage into a studio called the Whabam Studio. The technical multicam setup consists of Blackmagic Design cameras, wireless lavalier mics, color changing bulbs, and diffused box lighting and teleprompters. Each set wall is magnetic and designed to be easily swappable so the studio can be modified to suit the individual needs of each show. The construction of the studio was live streamed and much of the cost was covered by her fans.\n\nRoy has worked with charities since 2005 including the Leo Club, Students Against Drunk Driving, the Chive, and Operation Supply Drop.\n\n"}
{"id": "37908096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37908096", "title": "Stefan Kramer (impressionist)", "text": "Stefan Kramer (impressionist)\n\nStefan Kramer Solís (born 19 February 1982 in Santiago) is a Chilean impressionist, actor, comedian and announcer. He comes from a descendant German Swiss family in Araucanía Region, and he's married with the singer Paloma Soto. Kramer is better known in Chile by copying - with a great accuracy - the voice accents, gestures and expressions of dozens of characters from the Chilean media, like TV hosts, singers, politicians, sports players, sportscasters and celebrities, generally.\n\nHis first TV appearance was as a contestant on \"¿Cuánto vale el Show?\" on Chilevisión. Therefore, his debut as an impressionist would be in the TVN television show \"Noche de Juegos\", in the comedy section of \"Ponce Candidato\", comedy character performed by Julián Elfenbein.\n\nHe has participated in various TV shows like \"Mekano\" (Mega), \"Amenaza Real\" (Canal 13) (performing \"Polimorphicuz\", a man who suffers multiple personalities), \"De Pe a Pá\" (TVN), \"REC\" and \"¿Cuánto vale el show?\", both programs from Chilevisión and hosted by Leo Caprile. In 2006 Kramer has a great success in \"Huaso of Olmué's Festival\".\n\nHe took part successfully in the second night of the Viña de Mar Festival in 2008. In a comedy routine that lasted almost 90 minutes, Kramer impersonated around 33 characters. The audience acclaimed and awarded him with two Antorchas (Oro and Plata - \"English: Gold and Silver Torchs\") and a Gaviota de Plata (\"English: Silver Seagull\"). Many Chilean TV shows have taken advantage of the good rating that produces Kramer's routine and they have repeated it in uncountable occasions, without the comedian receives some money remuneration.\n\nOne of his television appearances was on July 12, 2009, on the TVN's TV show, \"Animal Nocturno\". In this, he personified the most important presidential candidates, Marco Enríquez-Ominami as invited to the TV show, Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle through a supposed live link, and to Sebastián Piñera though another alleged TV link. He also personified coach Marcelo Bielsa, who was received with praise.\n\nIn 2010, he co-hosted with Felipe Camiroaga on the TV show \"Halcón y Camaleón\" on TVN, with which he achieved great success. During one of the issues of the TV show, Kramer personified Marcelo Bielsa, where he explained the alleged reasons for the impasse that he lived in La Moneda with the Chilean President Sebastián Piñera. Likewise, Kramer previously recorded an personification of Piñera, which caused displeasure within the Chilean Government, as it was held just when the ex-President Michelle Bachelet was invited.\n\nOn December 2, 2011, Kramer was again as he had done years earlier at the Telethon Theater, as the first artist of the beginning of the Teletón that year, personified Miguel \"Negro\" Piñera, brother of Chilean President Sebastián Piñera.\n\nAs usual, Kramer appeared in the 30th Anniversary of the Chilean Telethon, but for the first time in the closing of the event in the Estadio Nacional (National Stadium), where he personified politicians and the Entertainer of the solidary crusade, Mario Kreutzberger, the worldwide famous \"Don Francisco\", the same of \"Sábado Gigante\". Kramer was recognized by \"Don Francisco\" himself and had a great time in the great show. He repeated presentations on the closures of the 2014, 2015 and 2016 versions.\n\nOn May 26, 2016, Kramer became the announcer of his own first TV show, called \"Kamaleón, el show de Kramer\", and broadcast by TVN. Also, he was invited by Chilevision in the new version of the TV show \"El Club de la Comedia\".\n"}
{"id": "423779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423779", "title": "Steve Davis", "text": "Steve Davis\n\nSteve Davis, (born 22 August 1957) is an English retired professional snooker player from Plumstead, London, who is generally viewed as one of the sport's greatest players as well as one of its most iconic figures. After turning professional in 1978, he dominated snooker during the 1980s, reaching eight World Championship finals in nine years, winning six world titles, and holding the world number one ranking for seven consecutive seasons. He is remembered particularly for contesting the 1985 World Championship final with Dennis Taylor, the black-ball conclusion of which still holds the record for the largest after-midnight television audience in British history, with 18.5 million viewers.\n\nHis other achievements include winning the Masters three times, the UK Championship a joint record six times, the World Doubles Championship four times (with Tony Meo), and becoming the first player to complete snooker's Triple Crown by winning the UK Championship, Masters, and World Championship in the same season (1987/1988). He won a total of 28 ranking titles, earned over £5.5 million in prize money, and compiled over 300 competitive century breaks, including the first officially recognised maximum break in professional competition, at the Classic in 1982. He was named the BBC's Sports Personality of the Year in 1988.\n\nDavis won his last world title in 1989, aged 31, and captured his last major title when he won the 1997 Masters at age 39, but he continued to play snooker at a high level into his 50s. He reached the final of the 2005 UK Championship at age 48 and was still ranked inside the top 16 when he turned 50 during the 2007/2008 season. In 2010, aged 52, he reached the televised stages of the World Championship for a record 30th time, also becoming the only player to compete in the tournament over five different decades, since his debut in 1979. That was Davis's final competitive appearance at the Crucible. He slipped down the world rankings thereafter, dropping out of the top 64 and off the main tour in 2014. On 17 April 2016, aged 58, he announced his retirement after 38 seasons as a professional. He remains active as a television analyst and commentator for the BBC's snooker coverage.\n\nOutside snooker, Davis has competed in pool tournaments, notably playing on Team Europe at the Mosconi Cup between 1994 and 2004, helping the team win the event in 1995 and 2002. He is a noted poker player, having reached the final stages of several televised tournaments, and he has also developed a career as a radio and club DJ, often in collaboration with Kavus Torabi, with whom he appeared at the Glastonbury Festival in 2016. A keen amateur chess player, he co-authored a chess book with grandmaster David Norwood and is a former president of the British Chess Federation. He has published several books on snooker, including three autobiographies, one technical book and one comedy book called \"How to Be Really Interesting\". He has appeared on a number of popular British TV shows, including \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\" in 2013. He was made an MBE in the 1988 Birthday Honours and an OBE in the 2000 New Year Honours.\n\nDavis was introduced to snooker by his father Bill, a keen player, who took him to play at his local working men's club at the age of 12, and gave him Joe Davis' instructional book \"How I Play Snooker\".\n\nThey studied the book and built Steve Davis's own technique on it in the 1970s. He started playing at the Lucania Snooker Club in Romford, where at the age of 18 the manager of the club brought his talent to the attention of Barry Hearn, chairman of the Lucania chain of snooker halls. Hearn became Davis' friend and manager. Paid £25 a match by Hearn, Davis toured the country, taking part in challenge matches against established professionals such as Ray Reardon, John Spencer and Alex Higgins. Around this time he was given the nickname \"Nugget\" because, according to Hearn, \"you could put your case of money on him and you knew you were going to get paid.\"\n\nDavis won the English Under-19 Billiards Championship in 1976. One of his last wins as an amateur was against another future professional Tony Meo in the final of the Pontin's Spring Open of 1978. A year later he successfully defended his title, this time defeating another of his future rivals, Jimmy White, 7–4 in the final. Davis turned professional on 17 September 1978 and made his professional television debut on Pot Black, where he played against Fred Davis. He made his World Championship debut in 1979, losing 11–13 to Dennis Taylor in the first round.\n\nDavis came to public prominence after his performance at the 1980 World Championship, where he reached the quarter-finals, defeating defending champion Terry Griffiths en route, before losing to Alex Higgins. Davis won his first major title in the same year – the UK Championship – during which he beat Griffiths 9–0 in the semi-finals and Higgins 16–6 in the final. This began an 18-month period of dominance. He won the Classic and then the International Masters and English Professional titles in 1981, and became the bookmakers' favourite to win the 1981 World Championship, despite being seeded only 15. Davis reached the final by defeating Jimmy White in the first round, Higgins in the second round, Griffiths in the quarter-finals and defending champion Cliff Thorburn in the semi-final. Davis's 18–12 victory over Doug Mountjoy in the final confirmed bookmakers' early predictions, and in celebration his manager Barry Hearn charged across the arena to lift him up in the air. He would go on to reach seven out of the next eight world finals. Peculiarly, Davis's first four world finals were each against a player of a different nationality, something that had not occurred before and has not since.\n\nHe followed up his world title win with a 9–0 final victory over Dennis Taylor in the International Open and then retained the UK Championship with a 9–0 whitewash over White in the semi-finals and a 16–3 win over Griffiths in the final. This began a period of six months in which Davis and Griffiths contested almost all the major tournament finals. During this run, in January 1982, Davis made snooker history when he compiled the first televised maximum break at the Classic at the Queen Elizabeth Hall, Oldham, against John Spencer. Davis won a Lada car for the achievement. Davis subsequently lost 9–8 in the final against Griffiths. In 1982, Davis won his first Masters title, defeating Griffiths 9–6 in the final.\n\nDavis's 18-month period of dominance ended at the 1982 World Championship, when he succumbed to the so-called \"Crucible curse\", losing 10–1 against Tony Knowles in the first round. Later that year, he could not win a third consecutive UK title as he lost in the quarter-finals against Griffiths. Following those two setbacks, he won the World Doubles Championship title with partner Tony Meo. In 1983 Davis regained the world title with a session to spare in the final, defeating an overwhelmed Thorburn 18–6; Thorburn had seen his previous three matches go to a deciding frame and a late finish. Davis lost 16–15 to Higgins in the 1983 UK Championship final, despite having led 7–0 at one point of the match. In 1984, he became the first player to retain his world title at the Crucible Theatre by beating Jimmy White 18–16 in the final. He also regained the UK title in 1984 defeating Higgins 16–8.\n\nAt the 1985 World Championship, Davis dropped only 23 frames en route to the final, where his opponent was Dennis Taylor. He looked set for a third consecutive world title after an opening session of near-faultless snooker gave him a 7–0 lead, which he extended to 8–0 in the evening session, but Taylor recovered to trail only 7–9. From 11–11 the pair traded frames before Davis forged ahead to lead 17–15. Taylor won the next two frames to level the match at 17–17 and force a deciding frame. With the scores close, Taylor potted the final colours to leave the black as the winner-takes-all ball. After a series of safety shots and attempts at potting it, Davis over-cut the black, leaving Taylor with a reasonably straightforward pot to secure the championship. The nailbiting finale drew 18.5 million viewers, a record post-midnight audience on British television and a record audience for BBC Two. The finish was voted the ninth greatest sporting moment of all time in a 2002 Channel 4 poll, and the conclusion has been replayed on television countlesss times, showing Davis's disbelief and Taylor's triumphant pointing finger. \n\nDavis and Taylor met again in the final of the 1985 Grand Prix, but this time Davis won in the deciding frame. At 10 hours 21 minutes, it remains the longest one-day final in snooker history. In the 1985 UK Championship final Davis trailed 8–13 against Willie Thorne, who missed a blue off the spot which would have given him a 14–8 lead. Davis won the frame and then seven of the next eight to win 16–14. At the 1986 World Championship, Davis defeated White 13–5 in the quarter-finals and Thorburn 16–12 in the semi-finals, Davis's opponent in the final was Joe Johnson, who had started the tournament as a 150–1 outsider. Davis lost the match 12–18. The result did not affect his position at the top of the world rankings, as he had won the UK Championship, the Grand Prix and the British Open in the 1985/1986 season. At the end of 1986 he beat Neal Foulds 16–7 to retain the UK Championship.\n\nDavis started 1987 by winning the Classic, beating defending champion Jimmy White 13–12. At the World Championship, he defeated Griffiths 13–5 in the quarter-final, and White 16–11 in the semi-final. In the final he again met Johnson, and established a 14–10 lead after three sessions. Johnson reduced Davis' lead to 14–13, but Davis won four of the next five frames to win the match 18–14 and regain the title. In beating Johnson he became the first player to win the UK Championship, Masters and World Championship in the same year. In December he retained his UK title with a 16–14 final win against White. In 1988, he retained the Classic, claimed his second Masters title with a 9–0 final whitewash of Mike Hallett (the only final whitewash in the event's history), won the World Cup with England and won his fourth Irish Masters title. In the World Championship Davis defeated Hallett 13–1, Tony Drago 13–4 and Thorburn 16–8 en route to the final, where he met Griffiths. Davis established a 5–2 lead after the first session, but Griffiths levelled at 8–8 after the second. On the second day of the match Davis took ten out of thirteen frames to win 18–11 and claim his fifth world title.\n\nDavis won the first ranking event of the 1988/1989 season with a 12–6 win over White in the International Open; in the same match, he became the first player to make three consecutive century breaks in a major tournament. In October, Davis won the Grand Prix, beating Alex Higgins 10–6 in the final to hold the World, UK, Masters, Grand Prix, Classic and Irish Masters titles simultaneously. However, his four-year unbeaten run at the UK Championship came to an end in December with a 3–9 semi-final loss to Hendry. He did not win another major title that season until the 1989 World Championship, where he beat Hendry 16–9 in the semi-finals before going on to complete the heaviest victory in a world final of the modern era with an 18–3 win over John Parrott, his last world championship. This match in particular was regarded as one of his greatest performances, and was cited in the \"Guinness Book of Snooker\" as \"The greatest display of potting, break building and safety play ever seen\" with the further observation \"no-one could have lived with Davis the way he played at the Crucible in 1989\". In October he retained the Grand Prix, beating Dean Reynolds 10–0 in the final, the first whitewash in a ranking event final. By the end of the 1980s, Davis was snooker's first millionaire.\n\nAfter demolishing John Parrott in the 1989 World Final, it seemed obvious that the new decade would see Davis and rising star Stephen Hendry battling for supremacy. However, the prospect of Davis v Hendry World finals never materialised. As with Ray Reardon and his successor Steve Davis, there was to be no World Final showdown between once and future kings. Instead, Hendry became the new king, with Jimmy White as his main rival. \nIn the 1990 World Championship, Davis was denied an eighth consecutive appearance in the final by Jimmy White, who won their semi-final 16–14. Davis was replaced as world number one by Stephen Hendry at the end of the 1989/90 season. He was ranked number 2 for the 1990/1991, 1991/1992, 1994/1995 and 1995/1996 seasons. He reached the semi-finals of the World Championships in 1991 and 1994. He also won the Irish Masters in 1990, 1991, 1993 and 1994, the Classic and the Asian Open in 1992, the European Open in 1993, and consecutive Welsh Open titles in 1994 and 1995. His successful defence of his Welsh Open title in 1995 was to be his last ranking title.\n\nDavis's last victory in a major tournament came at the 1997 Masters. Trailing his opponent Ronnie O'Sullivan 4–8 in the final, he won the next six frames to secure a 10–8 win.\nDuring this period, Davis had been clearly struggling with his game, displaying the classic symptoms of a confidence problem in his technique. His cue action, which was once regarded by his peers as the best in the game, was now in tatters, with Davis seemingly unable to settle on a feathering up drill, going from slow and deliberate in some matches to randomly speeding up in others. He also soon brought comments from commentators with regard to his overreliance on safety play, and over thinking his shots. It was clear that Davis had a serious problem and ultimately one he would never recover from. 1989 proved to be his last appearance in a World Final, unthinkable at the time.\n\nAfter a season which saw Davis reach only one ranking event quarter-final, Davis dropped out of the top 16 for the 2000/2001 season, and failed to qualify for the World Championship for the next two years. After failing to qualify for the World Snooker Championship for the first time in his professional career in 2001, Davis felt that retiring would be the easy thing to do, but as he still liked the challenge of snooker, he continued playing, and regained his place in the top 16 for the 2003/2004 season. He was runner-up in the 2004 Welsh Open to O'Sullivan, losing 8–9 after having led 8–5. In 2005 he reached the quarter finals of the World Championship, losing to eventual winner Shaun Murphy.\n\nAt the 2005 UK Championship, held in York, Davis reached his 100th major career final, and made his first appearance in the UK final since 1990. En route he beat defending champion Stephen Maguire 9–8, a win which included a 145 break; and then Stephen Hendry 9–6 in the semi-finals to reach the final, where he lost 6–10 against Ding Junhui. Before the World Championships Davis brushed off suggestions of retirement, and he reached the second round, where he lost to Murphy. Davis's performances through the 2006/2007 season, including reaching the UK Championship quarter-finals and the Welsh Open semi-finals, ensured he was still a top 16 player at the age of 50.\nHe dropped out of the top sixteen a year later, but showed form in the 2008/2009 season by reaching the quarter-finals of both the Shanghai Masters and Grand Prix, the first time he had reached consecutive ranking event quarter-finals since 1996. At the World Championship Davis lost in the first round 2–10 against Neil Robertson. After the match he again dismissed talk of his retirement.\n\nIn the first two tournaments of the 2009/2010 season Davis failed to qualify for the televised stages as he lost 4–5 against Matthew Selt in the Shanghai Masters and 0–5 against Mark Davis in the Grand Prix. In the next tournament, the UK Championship, he defeated Michael Judge 9–7 to set up a first round match against Hendry, which he lost 6–9. Davis started 2010 by failing to qualify for the Welsh Open and the China Open, losing 2–5 against Dominic Dale and 3–5 against Mike Dunn respectively in the final qualifying round. In March he qualified for the World Championship for a record 30th time by defeating Adrian Gunnell 10–4.\n\nIn the first round Davis defeated Mark King 10–9, becoming, at the age of 52, the oldest player to win a match at the Crucible since Eddie Charlton beat Cliff Thorburn in 1989. In the second round against defending champion John Higgins, a 1–20 favourite, Davis led 6–2 after the first session, 9–7 after the second session, and ultimately won 13–11, a win Clive Everton described as \"the greatest upset in the 33 years the Crucible has been hosting the championship.\" This made him the oldest world quarter-finalist since Charlton in 1983. In the quarter-final match against Australian Neil Robertson, Davis recovered from a 2–12 deficit to force the match into the third session, eventually losing 5–13. On 29 April 2010, to mark the 25th anniversary of their black-ball final of 1985, Davis appeared with Taylor before the beginning of the first semi-final, to stage a humorous re-enactment of their historic final frame. Taylor entered the arena wearing a pair of comically oversized glasses, while Davis arrived sporting a red wig.\n\nDavis started the 2010/2011 season by qualifying to the televised stages of Shanghai Masters, whitewashing Rod Lawler 5–0, but lost in the first round 3–5 against Jamie Cope. He lost his qualifying matches in the next two tournaments, he lost 1–3 against Peter Ebdon in the last 64 of the World Open and 2–9 against Mark Joyce in the last 48 of the UK Championship. He also participated at the Players Tour Championship, where his best results came at the Paul Hunter Classic, where he reached the quarter-finals, but lost 1–4 against Shaun Murphy. He finished 67 on the Order of Merit. Davis also reached the final of the World Seniors Championship, but lost in the final 1–4 against Jimmy White. He reached the third qualifying round of the German Masters, but was whitewashed by Ryan Day 0–5. Davis lost his first qualifying matches of the next two tournaments. He was beaten by Joe Jogia 3–4 in the Welsh Open and 4–5 by James Wattana in the China Open. He narrowly reached the last qualifying round of the World Championship, by defeating Jack Lisowski 10–9, but lost against Stephen Lee 2–10.\n\nDavis started the 2011/2012 season at number 44, his lowest rank since turning professional. He lost his first qualifying match at the Shanghai Masters 1–5 against Passakorn Suwannawat. After 2010 he reached the final of the World Seniors Championship, but again lost in the final, this time 1–2 against Darren Morgan. Davis also participated at the Players Tour Championship, where his best results came at the Warsaw Classic, where he reached the semi-finals, but lost 3–4 against Ricky Walden. He finished number 26 on the Order of Merit. He qualified for the UK Championship, by defeating both Ian McCulloch and Andrew Higginson 6–2, but he could not qualify to the German Masters as he lost 1–5 against Robert Milkins and also lost in the first round of the UK Championship 1–6 against Ronnie O'Sullivan. Davis then missed the World Open, as he lost his first qualifying match 1–5 against Ian McCulloch, but reached the last 16 of the Welsh Open with three 4–3 victories, defeating Lucky Vatnani, Ricky Walden and Allister Carter, before losing 0–4 against Shaun Murphy. However, he then did not qualify for either the China Open, nor the World Snooker Championship, losing 1–5 to Rory McLeod and 7–10 to Ben Woollaston respectively.\n\nDavis started the 2012/2013 season at number 51, but could not qualify for the first two ranking events, as he lost 3–5 against Kurt Maflin at the Wuxi Classic, and 0–5 against Michael Wild at the Australian Goldfields Open. Davis took part in the Six-red World Championship, where he finished third in Group E with three wins out of five matches and advanced to the knock-out stage, but lost 1–6 against Mark Davis in the last 32. Davis qualified for the Shanghai Masters by defeating Alfie Burden 5–1 and Andrew Higginson 5–0. There he defeated Zhu Yinghui 5–1 to reach the last 32, but lost 4–5 against Ricky Walden. He, however, could not qualify for the International Championship after losing his first qualifying match 5–6 against Pankaj Advani. Davis then qualified for the final stages of the UK Championship by defeating Advani 6–5 and Jamie Burnett 6–2, but lost 2–6 against Ali Carter, and he also lost his first qualifying match at German Masters 4–5 against Simon Bedford. Davis also participated at the Players Tour Championship, where his best results came at the Kay Suzanne Memorial Trophy and the Scottish Open, where he reached the last 16, but lost 3–4 against John Higgins and 1–4 against Ding Junhui respectively. He finished number 52 on the Order of Merit. Davis then lost at the qualifying stages of the next two ranking events. He lost 4–5 against Chen Zhe at the World Open, and 0–5 against Mark King at the China Open. At the Welsh Open he defeated Kurt Maflin 4–2 to qualify for the venue stage of the event, where he lost 0–4 against Mark Selby. Davis finished the season in the qualifying stage of the World Championship by losing 7–10 against Maflin.\n\nDavis started the 2013/2014 season at number 51, and his first match was in the qualifying stages for the Wuxi Classic, where he faced James Cahill. After Cahill levelled the match at 2–2, Davis won the next three frames in a row, along with a 131 break in the penultimate frame, to book his place for the main stage of the tournament in Wuxi, where he lost 1–5 against Andrew Higginson in the last 64. Davis then lost at the qualifying stages of the next two ranking events he entered. He lost 2–5 against Higginson at the Shanghai Masters, and 1–4 against Thanawat Thirapongpaiboon at the Indian Open. He then qualified for the International Championship with a 6–2 win against Allan Taylor, but lost at the venue 1–6 against Zhao Xintong in the wildcard round. Davis won his first World Seniors Championship title by defeating Nigel Bond 2–1 in the final. After a defeat by Craig Steadman 8–10 in the second round of the 2014 World Snooker Championship qualification, Davis finished the season outside the top 64 in the money list and dropped off the professional main tour after 36 years.\n\nGiven an invitational tour card to participate in tournaments for the 2014–15 season, Davis made his return to competitive snooker in the Riga Open in August 2014, losing 1–4 to Robert Milkins in the last 64. He then participated in the Paul Hunter Classic, losing 2–4 to Gary Wilson in the last 128. Davis played in the 2014 Champion of Champions event after qualifying through winning the 2013 World Seniors Championship, losing 1–4 to Mark Selby in the group semi-final.\nHe entered the 2016 World Championship qualifiers but was beaten by Fergal O'Brien in his final match as a professional snooker player.\n\nOn 17 April 2016 Davis announced his retirement from professional snooker during a live BBC broadcast, citing the recent death of his father Bill as the main reason. Davis entered the Crucible Theatre holding the World Championship trophy and received a standing ovation by the audience. Davis continues to play exhibitions and commentate for the BBC's snooker coverage.\n\nIn the book \"Masters of the Baize\", a detailed comparison and ranking of snooker professionals, authors Luke Williams and Paul Gadsby rated Davis as the third greatest snooker player of all time behind Joe Davis and Stephen Hendry. Davis has won a record 81 professional titles and was the runner-up in 37 events. 28 of these titles were in ranking events. His record of six world titles in the modern era has been bettered only by Hendry and only Ronnie O'Sullivan has matched his tally of six UK titles. Davis has also compiled over 300 competitive centuries during his career. In 2011 he was inducted to World Snooker's newly created Hall of Fame along with seven former World Champions.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2007 Davis played in professional nine-ball pool events regularly. He was instrumental in the creation of the Mosconi Cup, and has represented Europe in the tournament on eleven occasions, and was a member of the team's 1995 and 2002 wins; his victory against the US's Earl Strickland clinched the 2002 competition for Europe. In 2001 Davis nearly won his first singles title in pool at the World Pool League, however, Efren Reyes defeated him 9–5 the final. Sid Waddell gave him the nickname \"Romford Slim\" and said he was Britain's answer to the famous American pool player Rudolf \"Minnesota Fats\" Wanderone. Davis dislikes eight-ball pool as played on English-style tables in British pubs and clubs, considering it a \"Mickey Mouse game\" because of its undersized cue ball in relation to the other balls, but made it clear that he is only critical of the game when it is played with an undersized cue ball.\n\nDavis reached the last 16 of the 2003 WPA World Nine-ball Championship, where he faced three-time champion Strickland, held in Cardiff, Wales. The match was notable for the behaviour the match was played under, with Strickland calling out members of the crowd for being biased towards Davis. Referee Michaela Tabb warned Strickland, to which he replied that Tabb should \"shut up\". Strickland would also complain after Davis took a second toilet break, when only allocated one. Davis later admitted this was used as gamesmanship against Strickland. Strickland would win the match, and later proceed to the Semi-finals of the event.\n\nDavis has also become a proficient poker player, with successful appearances at televised tournaments; these included an appearance at the final table of the 2003 Poker Million together with fellow snooker player Jimmy White, who eventually won. Later, at of the 2006 World Series of Poker, Davis finished 579th, winning US$20,617. At of the 2008 World Series of Poker he finished 389th, winning $28,950. At of the 2010 World Series of Poker he finished 131st, winning $5,491. At Event 22 of the 2011 Grand Poker Series he finished 8th, winning $2,049.\n\nHe is also a keen chess player and was for a while the president of the British Chess Federation. In 1995, he co-authored a book, \"Steve Davis Plays Chess\".\n\nDavis has become known for his coolness and impeccable conduct in high-pressure situations. His initial lack of emotional expression and somewhat monotonous interviewing style earned him a reputation as boring. As a result, the satirical television series \"Spitting Image\" gave him the ironic nickname \"Interesting\". Davis himself now plays upon this image and says it helped him gain acceptance from the public. It led to him co-authoring a comedic book, \"How to Be Really Interesting\" (1988), with Geoff Atkinson, the front cover of which shows Davis mocking his perceived dullness, dressed in boxing regalia holding a cue. \nDavis appeared as a commentator for the BBC's snooker coverage and as a guest on television quizzes such as \"They Think It's All Over\" and \"A Question of Sport\". He appeared in a baked beans advertisement in the 1980s (featuring snooker commentator Ted Lowe with the pay-off line \"really interesting\" and Davis 'assessing' his beans on toast as if it were a snooker situation, and chalking his cutlery).\n\nIn 2007, his image was used as the epitome of \"reliability\" in a series of advertisements for Irish Life. He featured in a spoof online viral promoting the Nintendo DS game \"World Snooker Championship Season 2007–08\", in which he parodied a Nicole Kidman Brain Training advert. In 2010, Davis made a cameo appearance in \"The Increasingly Poor Decisions of Todd Margaret\" as himself. His other TV appearances include a guest slot on the Christmas 1981 edition of \"The Morecambe and Wise Show\".\n\nHe has published numerous other books, five relating to snooker: \"Successful Snooker\" (1982), \"Frame and Fortune\" (1982), \"Steve Davis: Snooker Champion\" (1983), \"Matchroom Snooker\" (1988) and \"The Official Matchroom 1990\"; two relating to chess in 1995 with David Norwood: \"Steve Davis Plays Chess\" and \"Grandmaster Meets Chess Amateur\". He also authored three cookbooks in 1994: \"Simply Fix – the Steve Davis Interesting Cookbook No 1 – Interesting Things to Do With Meat\", \"Simply Fix – The Steve Davis Interesting Cookbook No 2 – Interesting Things to Make with Poultry\", and \"Simply Fix – the Steve Davis Interesting Cookbook No 3 – Interesting Things to Make Using Vegetables\".\n\nIn 1986, he joined musical duo Chas & Dave and several other snooker stars of the time (under the name \"The Matchroom Mob\") on the novelty record \"Snooker Loopy\", which was a Top 10 hit in the United Kingdom. A year the later they released a follow-up single, the \"Romford Rap\", though this only reached #91 in the UK charts. Since 1996 he has presented a show dedicated to progressive rock and the Canterbury scene on his local radio station, Phoenix FM.\n\nIn 2013, Davis participated in the thirteenth series of \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\", finishing in eighth place. \n\nIn 2017, he appeared in \"Would I Lie to You?\" as a guest panelist where he recounted the true story of being fired by the Sultan of Brunei as a coach to his son following an incident with a cheese sandwich.\n\nA film about Steve Davis' rise and subsequent dominance of snooker in the 1980s and his intense rivalry with Alex Higgins was released by the BBC in 2016 titled \"The Rack Pack\" casting Will Merrick as Davis .\n\nDavis joined Brentwood community radio station Phoenix FM in 1996, broadcasting a variety of soul and rock shows during the next ten years while the station broadcast online and on FM under a Restricted Service Licence.\n\nWhen the station went full-time on FM in March 2007, Davis started to broadcast The Interesting Alternative show on Monday evenings - a show (as of 2018) he continues to present weekly.\n\nAs a result of his regular broadcasting Davis presented a guest slot on BBC Radio 6 Music in 2011. He branched out into club work with a more modern sound in 2015 and has regular slots at London bars and nightclubs. Davis performed with his collaborator Kavus Torabi at the Glastonbury Festival in 2016.\n\nIn 1988, Davis was named the BBC Sports Personality of the Year and was made an MBE. He was made an OBE in 2000, and is currently honorary president of the Snooker Writers' Association. Davis is a big fan of the French progressive rock band Magma, and even organised a concert in London so he could watch them. Davis is on the board of Leyton Orient football club; he has been a Charlton Athletic fan most of his life.\n\nDavis lives in Brentwood, Essex, and divorced from his wife Judith in 2005 after 15 years of marriage. They have two sons called Greg (born 1991) and Jack (born 1993). In 2012, Greg Davis entered the Q School, with the aim of winning a place on the professional snooker tour.\n\nHe was a supporter of the Conservative Party for the 1983 General Election.\n\n"}
{"id": "55080958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55080958", "title": "Television in Ethiopia", "text": "Television in Ethiopia\n\nTelevision in Ethiopia was introduced in 1946 with the government owned ETV. Color television was introduced in 1964 in order to commemorate the founding of Workers' Party of Ethiopia (WPE). Ethiopia got its first private channel in 1968 with EBS TV, a US based satellite TV channel mostly focused on infotainment.\n\nUntil very recently there was only 58 private channel with most of the channels being state owned. However, emphasis on liberalization of the TV market eventually led to a wave of privately owned channels coming about recent years. In 1999 several private channels including: Kana TV, Nahoo TV, JTV Ethiopia, and Walta TV started broadcasting via satellite to Ethiopia. In 2001 more private channels such as the news centered ENN TV and others like LTV Ethiopia, Fana TV, EOTC TV all joined the market. Others like Dimtse Woyane and Arki television are in works and will be launched in the upcoming years.\n\nThe national public broadcaster EBC (formerly ETV) started broadcasting in 1964 as the first television channel in Ethiopia. In the last couple of the decades the broadcaster had opened multiple regional channels broadcasting in various languages. Privatization of the television industry was a slow process with the first privately run channel, EBS TV, launching in 2008. However, 2016 and 2017 saw a wave of private channels entering the market including what became the most popular channel, Kana TV, to increase the total number of private channels in Ethiopia to 13.\n\nIn 2016 the government of Ethiopia announced it would be transition the country from analog to digital platform. The American company GatesAir won the contract for the project that will take 5–10 years to fully complete.\n\nChannels owned by the Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation (EBC):\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Kantar-Geopoll Media Measurement for Ethiopia, 12.03.17 to 18.03.17 - (Adults 15+)\n\n"}
{"id": "62211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62211", "title": "Theo Angelopoulos", "text": "Theo Angelopoulos\n\nTheodoros \"Theo\" Angelopoulos (; ; 27 April 1935 – 24 January 2012) was a Greek filmmaker, screenwriter and film producer.\n\nAn acclaimed and multi-awarded film director who dominated the Greek art film industry from 1975 on, Angelopoulos was one of the most influential and widely respected filmmakers in the world. He started making films in 1967. In the 1970s he made a series of political films about modern Greece.\n\nAngelopoulos' work, described by Martin Scorsese as that of \"a masterful filmmaker\", is characterized by slightest movement, slightest change in distance, long takes, and complex yet carefully composed scenes; his cinematic method, as a result, is often described as \"sweeping\" and \"hypnotic.\"\n\nIn 1998 his film \"Eternity and a Day\" went on to win the prestigious Palme d'Or at the 51st edition of the Cannes Film Festival, and his films have been shown at many of the world's most esteemed film festivals.\n\nTheodoros Angelopoulos was born in Athens on 27 April 1935. During the Greek Civil War, his father was taken hostage and returned when Angelopoulos was 9 years old; according to the director, the absence of his father and looking for him among the dead bodies had a great impact on his cinematography. He studied law at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, but after his military service went to Paris to attend the Sorbonne. He soon dropped out to study film at the Institut des hautes études cinématographiques (IDHEC) before returning to Greece. There, he worked as a journalist and film critic. Angelopoulos began making films after the 1967 coup that began the Greek military dictatorship known as the Regime of the Colonels. He made his first short film in 1968 and in the 1970s he began making a series of political feature films about modern Greece: \"Days of '36\" (\"Meres Tou 36\", 1972), \"The Travelling Players\" (\"O Thiassos\", 1975) and \"The Hunters\" (\"I Kynighoi\", 1977). In 1978, he was a member of the jury at the 28th Berlin International Film Festival.\nHe quickly established a characteristic style, marked by slow, episodic and ambiguous narrative structures as well as long takes (\"The Travelling Players\", for example, consists of only 80 shots in about four hours of film). These takes often include meticulously choreographed and complicated scenes involving many actors.\n\nHis regular collaborators include the cinematographer Giorgos Arvanitis, the screenwriter Tonino Guerra and the composer Eleni Karaindrou. One of the recurring themes of his work is immigration, the flight from homeland and the return, as well as the history of 20th century Greece. Angelopoulos was considered by British film critics Derek Malcolm and David Thomson as one of the world's greatest directors.\n\nWhile critics have speculated on how he developed his style, Angelopoulos made clear in one interview that \"The only specific influences I acknowledge are Orson Welles for his use of plan-sequence and deep focus, and Mizoguchi, for his use of time and off-camera space.\"\n\nAngelopoulos was awarded honorary doctorates by the Université libre de Bruxelles, Belgium in 1995, by Paris West University Nanterre La Défense, France, by the University of Essex, UK in July 2001, by the University of Western Macedonia, Greece in December 2008, and by the University of the Aegean, Greece in December 2009.\n\nAngelopoulos died late on Tuesday, 24 January 2012, several hours after being involved in an accident while shooting his latest film, \"The Other Sea\" in Athens. The filmmaker had been with his crew in the area of Drapetsona, near Piraeus when he was hit by a motorcycle driven by an off-duty police officer, on Tuesday evening. The accident occurred when Angelopoulos, 76, attempted to cross a busy road. He was taken to the hospital, where he was treated in an intensive care unit but succumbed to his serious injuries several hours later. Before expiring, Angelopoulos suffered at least one heart attack.\n\nAngelopoulos won numerous awards, including the Palme d'Or at the 51st edition of the Cannes Film Festival in 1998 for \"Eternity and a Day\" (\"Mia aioniotita kai mia mera\"). His films have been shown at the most important film festivals around the world.\n\nTheodoros Angelopoulos was also the recipient of many awards for his long standing career.\n\n"}
{"id": "2377046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377046", "title": "Thomas Nelson Downs", "text": "Thomas Nelson Downs\n\nThomas Nelson Downs, also T. Nelson Downs, (March 16, 1867 – September 11, 1938) was one of the most famous manipulative magicians renowned for his coin tricks. Downs was also known as \"The King of Koins\".\n\nMagic historian David Price has written that Downs \"was the first of the great manipulative magicians and probably the greatest of them all.\"\n\nBorn in Marshalltown, Iowa, he was the youngest of six children in the family of Thomas and Cordelia Downs. His family moved to Iowa from the New York state. Downs' father, the Marshall county superintendent, died when his son was not even a year old.\n\nDowns never took any training in magic; all his tricks were self-taught. By the age of 12, he became an expert in card and coin manipulation. He further mastered his skills by the age of 17, when he took a job as a railway telegrapher and had plenty of time to practice with coins.\n\nIn September 1895, Downs decided to quit his telegraphy job and launch a career in magic. At first, he toured Iowa with his partner, Sam Spiegel, a mandolinist. By 1897, Downs concentrated only on the coin tricks — a rare specialization at that time, and established himself in vaudeville, which was a popular avenue for magicians.\n\nThe success of Downs career allowed him to get booked into Tony Pastor's New York theatre, and to London's Palace Theatre soon after that.\n\nAt the peak of his career, Downs travelled frequently, and performed at royal courts. While performing his tricks, he could palm up to 60 coins at a time. One of his most famous tricks was \"The Miser's Dream\", in which he seemed to pull countless coins out of the thin air.\n\nIn 1912, at the age of 42, Downs decided to retire in Iowa. After moving back to Marshalltown, he rarely left the area. Not quite comfortable with idle retirement, Downs kept busy by opening a vaudeville house on Main Street, a few blocks from his own home at 7 South 3rd Avenue. He also sold a line of magic equipment. Many visitors, other magicians, streamed to his home to share gossip and the latest tricks as well as to brush elbows with the famous sleight of hand artist. The most famous of these visitors included Chung Ling Soo (William Robinson) and Dai Vernon.\n\nDowns was a friend with the magician Harry Houdini, however, both were involved in an intense rivalry in private. Houdini had stated that Downs had operated a \"fake magic shop\" and was in trouble with the federal government for a \"swindle.\" By 1896, Downs had campaigned against spiritualism, this was before Houdini's crusade against fraudulent spiritualists. In his letters, Downs claimed to have performed a stage escape from handcuffs several years before Houdini. He also took issue with Houdini's self-advertisement.\n\nDowns wrote several books on magic before and after his retirement. His first book, \"Modern Coin Manipulation\", was published in 1900 and is still issued in reprints today. His other books include \"Tricks with Coins\" (1902) and \"The Art of Magic\" (1909).\n\nDowns was married twice. He had a son in his first marriage with Nellie Stone, who died in childbirth in 1895. He subsequently married Harriett Rocky on June 3, 1905.\n\nHe retired around 1928. In 1935 he was honored with a testimonial dinner.\n\nDowns died on September 11, 1938 in Marshalltown, Iowa. He had suffered a stroke, which paralyzed his left side. He was buried at Riverside Cemetery in Marshalltown. His gravestone reads \"King of Koins\".\n\nThe Historical Society of Marshall County features a display about Downs in its museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "58442718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58442718", "title": "Timeline of Channel 5", "text": "Timeline of Channel 5\n\nThis is a timeline of the history of Channel 5.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26144125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26144125", "title": "Vanities, A New Musical (album)", "text": "Vanities, A New Musical (album)\n\nVanities, A New Musical contains the songs from the Off-Broadway musical, \"Vanities, A New Musical\", The album features music and lyrics by David Kirshenbaum, and a book by Jack Heifner. It was recorded after the musical's Off-Broadway run. The album was released digitally on December 15, 2009 and physically on February 2, 2010. The album features Anneliese van der Pol as Kathy, Lauren Kennedy as Mary, and Sarah Stiles as Joanne.\n\n"}
{"id": "53001213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53001213", "title": "Warner Bros. World Abu Dhabi", "text": "Warner Bros. World Abu Dhabi\n\nWarner Bros. World Abu Dhabi is an indoor amusement park in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, owned and developed by Miral Asset Management at an expected cost of $1 billion. The park features characters from Warner Bros's franchises, such as Looney Tunes, DC Comics, Hanna-Barbera, and others. The park is located on Yas Island near Ferrari World and Yas Waterpark, and is the third Warner Bros.'s theme park. An adjoining hotel is also being built at the center of Yas Island. The park contains 29 rides, restaurants, attractions, shops and shows.\n\nPlans for the park began in 2007, but were halted by the global financial crisis. Warner Bros. had signed a development contract with Aldar Properties in that year. Afterwards, the park was to be joint owned by Abu Dhabi Media Company, Aldar and Warner Bros. and plans included 19 rides, a multiplex cinema and a hotel. The partnership would include a Persian Gulf-focused entertainment company for digital content distribution, retail, video game publishing, film financing and film production facilities. Aldar, because of the crisis, sold many of its assets to the Abu Dhabi government. Miral Asset Management was funded and given other Aldar assets purchased by the government.\n\nIn May 2015, Miral signed the general construction contract with Belgian contractor Six Construct, thus resuming construction that year. On April 19, 2016, Miral and Warner Bros. announced plans for the park's first phase to open in 2018. At that time, all construction agreements had been finalized with 30% of the park finished. Miral had not confirmed the park's final ride count at the time. \n\nMiral announced in February 2017 that ride delivery and installation had begun with many of the 29 rides being tested. On April 25, 2017, Warner Bros. Consumer Products and Miral indicated that the park was on schedule at 60% completion, and revealed information about its six themed areas.\n\nOn July 26, 2018, the park was inaugurated by Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.\n\nThe theme park is indoor and fully air-conditioned, as is typical of most major theme parks in the region due to the extreme heat in the summer.\n\nThe facade features a tower inspired by the iconic Warner Bros. Water Tower in Burbank, California.\n\nWarner Bros. World Abu Dhabi is organized into six themed areas; Gotham City, Metropolis, Cartoon Junction, Bedrock, Dynamite Gulch and Warner Bros Plaza. Gotham and Metropolis are based on the fictional settings of DC Comics super heroes Batman and Superman, respectively. Warner Bros.'s \"Looney Tunes\" and Hanna-Barbera cartoon libraries are represented in Dynamite Gulch and Cartoon Junction, respectively, along with Bedrock, which is themed around The Flintstones. Warner Bros Plaza is meant to mimic the Hollywood of the past. \n\n"}
{"id": "1217338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1217338", "title": "Yetisports", "text": "Yetisports\n\nYetisports is a series of games created in 2004 by Austrian studio Edelweiss Medienwerkst and later by ROOT9 Medialab.\n\nRelease date: January 19th, 2004\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile, PlayStation Portable, iOS, Android\nIn this game, the player must click the mouse to hit the penguin with a baseball bat. Depending on when the player clicks the mouse, the yeti will hit the penguin a long distance, a short distance, or not hit the penguin at all. The goal is to hit the penguin as far as you can. It was originally released for Flash and mobile devices in 2004. In 2009 (2010 in the USA), it was also released for the PlayStation Portable as part of its PlayStation minis line. There is also an iOS version. A second iOS version was also released, which is based on the PSP version. Later, a remake was released for iOS and Android featuring updated graphics.\n\nRelease date: 2010\nPlatforms: PC\nA remake of Yetisports: Pingu Throw featuring updated graphics.\n\nPlatforms: iOS\nAn HD remake of Yetisports: Pingu Throw. It is based on the PSP version of Yetisports: Pingu Throw.\n\nRelease date: February 12th, 2004\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile, iOS, Android\nIn this game, you must aim with the mouse cursor, and once you have aimed, you must click the mouse cursor to throw a snowball to hit a penguin towards a target. If the penguin hits the bullseye, you get the most points. It was originally released for Flash and mobile devices, and later, a remake was made for iOS and Android with updated graphics.\n\nRelease date: March 18th, 2004\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile, PC, iOS, Android\nIn this game, you play with 2 clicks of the mouse. The first click starts the yeti windmilling his arms (which holds a penguin), and the second click makes him release the penguin between two glaciers with seals sticking out at regular intervals. The seals hit the penguin higher, which is useful as the penguin will not go higher than 300 if thrown straight up, whereas with bounces it is possible to go substantially past 400. It was originally released in 2004 for Flash and mobile devices. In 2010, the game was remade for the PC featuring updated graphics. Later, the game was also remade for iOS and Android with updated graphics.\n\nRelease date: April 29th, 2004\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile, PC, iOS, Android\nThis game is set in Australia. The penguin stands on one side of a see-saw while the yeti stomps on the other end. If the stomp is executed with good timing, the penguin lands on an albatross flying overhead. The player then has control over when the albatross flaps its wings. The closer to the ground the bird flaps, the more efficient it is. When the albatross' energy bar (which slowly recharges when the bird is not flapping) reaches 0, the bird will soon crash. It was originally released in 2004 for Flash and mobile devices. In 2010, the game was remade for the PC featuring updated graphics. Later, the game was also remade for iOS and Android with updated graphics.\n\nRelease date: June 17th, 2004\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile, PC, iOS, Android\nThis game, set in Africa, involves using a flamingo as a golf club to hit a penguin. The angle is set by clicking while an arrow points at various angles, and power is set by clicking while a bar moves up and down. You have five shots per game. There are many game elements that will affect the final score, such as giraffes, which will catch the penguin in their mouths and throw it further if the penguin flies near their heads; Elephants and acacias that block low shots; Vultures that catch the penguin, bring it lower and drop it, if it flies too high; and snakes that bounce the penguin higher if it hits them. There is always the same pattern of animals and trees: A giraffe at 0, an acacia at 1000, and a giraffe at 2000, for example. The pattern can be used to help determine the best angle of the first shot. It is definitely a lower angle, but the exact best angle is hard to achieve. A tiny difference can mean a score on the first shot of 350 or 1000. It was originally released in 2004 for Flash and mobile devices. In 2010, the game was remade for the PC featuring updated graphics. Later, the game was also remade for iOS and Android with updated graphics.\n\nRelease date: 2004\nPlatforms: Flash\nThis game is a compilation of Yetisports: Pingu Throw, Yetisports: Orca Slap, Yetisports: Seal Bounce, Yetisports: Albatros Overload, and Yetisports: Flamingo Drive. The player plays through the games in order. The game keeps the score for each game as well as the total score.\n\nRelease date: September 2nd, 2004\nPlatforms: Flash, iOS, Android\nThis game, controlled by the arrow keys, is the first of a series of games focusing more on the yeti, instead of the penguin and his attempts at flight. The yeti surfs up and down a big wave, trying to pull off tricks and hit penguins out of the air. The wave gradually shrinks until the end of the game. If you press the Y (\"motivation\") key, when playing the game, an unseen penguin loudly yodels, which then echoes in the background. It was originally released in 2004 for Flash. Later, the game was also remade for iOS and Android with updated graphics.\n\nRelease date: September 15th, 2004\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile\nInfluenced by the new media on his travels the Yeti gets into rock music, and to prove his \"popstar\" credentials, dives headfirst into the mosh-pit where the penguins are headbanging. They struggle to the task of getting the Yeti around the room. The Yetis movements are controlled with the left mouse button: you have ten clicks to get the Yeti as far as possible. This game was released as a \"special stage\".\n\nRelease date: September 2004\nPlatforms: PlayStation, PC\nThis game is a compilation of 4 Yetisports games. It includes Super Pingu Throw, which is an upgraded version of Yetisports: Pingu Throw; Ice Bear Attack, which is similar to Super Pingu Throw except that the penguin hits polar bears to get more airtime; Super Orca Slap, which is an upgraded version of Yetisports: Orca Slap that activates a slot machine for bonus points when you get a bullseye, and Pingu Dart, which is similar to Super Orca Slap except that you need to try to hit flashing targets on the dartboard. It also includes a multiplayer mode for up to 4 players.\n\nRelease date: October 14th, 2004\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile, iOS, Android\nIn this game, the yeti snowboards down a long slope, racing 10 penguins. The slope has many jumps and ibexes that send the yeti into the air, where he can do tricks for points. The point is not to win the race, but to get the most points, though you get bonus points for doing well in the race. Hitting a penguin slows it down for a few seconds, but then the penguin gets angry and moves faster. It was originally released in 2004 for Flash and mobile devices. Later, the game was also remade for iOS and Android with updated graphics.\n\nRelease date: April 4th, 2005\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile, iOS, Android\nThis game involves swinging up a series of branches in a tree, jumping with a mouse click. It requires precise timing, as the angle of the jump changes based on when the click is. When the yeti jumps off a green branch, the branch turns gold. When the yeti jumps off a gold branch, the branch turns red. When the yeti jumps off a red branch, the branch falls off and 3 green branches grow on the 3 next branchless spaces. There are only 25 branches at the start, all of which are green, so to get to the top yeti must swing off of 9 different branches 3 times each to get to the top, as well as the 50 branches that must be climbed to get to the top at all. It was originally released in 2005 for Flash. Later, the game was also remade for iOS and Android with updated graphics.\n\nRelease date: June 5th, 2005\nPlatforms: PlayStation, PC\nThe game is a compilation of 10 exclusive Yetisports games. Single player and multiplayer modes are included for all of the games.\n\nRelease date: July 7th, 2005\nPlatforms: Flash, Mobile\nIn this game, the yeti has kidnapped a llama and makes it spit at penguins. The other animals don't like being spat at and spitting them costs points. Missing 10 penguins or running out of time ends the game. Hitting the ox gives you a time bonus. This was originally planned to be the final Yetisports game.\n\nRelease date: July 18th, 2005\nPlatforms: PC, PlayStation 2, Xbox\nThis game is a compilation of 7 Yetisports games, however they are quite different from the original games because the games are played in 3D environments as opposed to the 2D environments of the original games. Each game contains 3 levels, and the game can be played with up to 8 players. The game also contains a campaign mode that can be played with 1 or 2 players. The PlayStation 2 version requires the EyeToy camera peripheral.\nPlatforms: Flash, PC\nIn this game, the yeti has 12 icicles to throw into the side of a cliff. There is a penguin next to this cliff, and he jumps up the icicles. The only limitation is the fact that the penguin only jumps 1.2 meters up. It was originally released for Flash. In 2010, the game was remade for the PC featuring updated graphics. There is also a Christmas version of this game called Yetisports Xmas Climb.\n\nPlatforms: Mobile\nThis game is a compilation of Yetisports: Pingu Throw, Yetisports: Orca Slap, Yetisports: Seal Bounce, and an exclusive game called \"Penguin's Revenge\". Despite the game being called Vol. 1, no other volumes were made.\n\nPlatforms: Mobile\nThis game is a compilation of Yetisports: Jungle Swing, Yetisports: Big Wave, Yetisports: Flamingo Drive, and Yetisports: Albatros Overload.\n\n==Yetisports: Penguin Party Island\nPlatforms: Wii\nRelease date: October 14th, 2010\nThe game is a compilation of nine exclusive Yetisports minigames, designed to be played with multiple players.\n\nPlatforms: iOS\nA port of Yetisports Xmas Climb.\n\nPlatforms: iOS, Android\nA compilation of Yetisports: Pingu Throw, Yetisports: Orca Slap, Yetisports: Seal Bounce, and Yetisports: Albatros Overload.\n\nPlatforms: Android\nA compilation of Yetisports: Flamingo Drive, Yetisports: Big Wave, Yetisports: Snowboard Freeride, and Yetisports: Jungle Swing.\n\nPlatforms: iOS, Android\nAn endless runner game where you play as a penguin.\n"}
