{"id": "35527699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35527699", "title": "2003 Quetta mosque bombing", "text": "2003 Quetta mosque bombing\n\nOn July 4, 2003 44 Hazara Shias were killed and at least 65 others were injured when the mosque was attacked during the Friday prayer in Quetta, Pakistan. On Friday July 4, 2003 when hundreds of worshipers were offering Friday prayer, three armed men enter the \"Asna Ashari Hazara Imambargah\" and started shooting, threw hand grenades and one suicide bomber blew himself which left more than 50 dead and tens of others injured. It was second major sectarian attack on Hazara community in Quetta after the massacre of Police cadets. It was the start of the Series of Hazara Killings in Quetta.\n\nOn Friday July 4, 2003 hundreds of worshipers were practicing Friday prayer in Asna Ashri Hazara Imambargah Kalan (mosque). five men armed with automatic weapons enter the mosque start shooting for ten continuous minutes and tried to throw grenade but it blew in his hand, people disarmed one of them and killed a third one. Two of them ran away from the roof. This incident left more 65 dead and tens of others injured.\n\nLashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ), a banned terrorist group, was responsible for the attack on the mosque. After investigations the Intelligence agencies found a video compact disc in which two people are shown who claimed their people attacked on the mosque and they were going to meet them in the paradise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48700606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48700606", "title": "A Meat Stall with the Holy Family Giving Alms", "text": "A Meat Stall with the Holy Family Giving Alms\n\nA Meat Stall with the Holy Family Giving Alms is a painting by the Netherlandish artist Pieter Aertsen (1508–1575). It was completed in 1551. A large painting, it depicts a peasant market scene, with an abundance of meats and other foods. In the background, it shows a scene from the biblical theme of the flight into Egypt, where the Virgin Mary is seen stopped on the road, giving alms to the poor. Thus, although the painting seems to be at first sight an ordinary still life concentrating on foodstuffs, it is rich with symbolism; it in fact hides a symbolic religious meaning, and embodies a visual metaphor encouraging spiritual life. Aertsen made a name for himself during the 1550s painting scenes from everyday life in a naturalistic manner.\n\nPieter Aertsen was a masterful still-life painter from Amsterdam, who worked for many years in Antwerp. He was a representative of the 16th-century Northern Renaissance style, more specifically Northern Mannerism, a new era for painting in the Netherlands and the German countries characterised by precise observation and naturalism that gave the art of painting impulses of realism. Many Northern artists travelled to Italy to study, where they were influenced by the innovations of the Italian Renaissance and in turn influenced the Italian Renaissance painters with techniques such as the newly developed technique of oil painting.\n\nAertsen is regarded as one of the founders of the still life painting. His style was particularly new: he mixed characteristics of the still life and the genre painting in his works, which, like \"A Meat Stall with the Holy Family Giving Alms\", are seen as pioneers in the still life genre that grew out of details of paintings containing figure subjects. His compositions in the Flemish tradition were remarkably original, like this painting of a meat stall, with a large, life-size still life in the foreground and three smaller scenes appearing through openings in the background.\n\nSince the Protestants rejected the tradition of Catholic arts, many of Aertsen's paintings were destroyed by the iconoclasts, especially his altarpieces, some of which were chopped into pieces. Only the parts of the paintings containing the less religious details were spared. Thus, the era of religious paintings declined in the Protestant countries. Aertsen painted \"A Meat Stall\" a few years before he moved to Amsterdam from Antwerpen.\n\nThe artwork of \"A Meat Stall with the Holy Family Giving Alms\" consists of a large painting on panel in oil, depicting a profusion of foodstuffs in a highly realistic style, while the narrative is hidden in the background, seen through the stall windows and openings. Aertsen's paintings were often made in an \"inverted still life\" style in which the still-life aspects were in the foreground and the narrative aspects in the background. The viewer's senses are distracted by the rich display of various foods – plates in the foreground, meats, ham, lard, smoked fish, pigs' legs and head, bread, butter, milk, cheese and hanging pretzels (in the left corner) – that has been spread out in front of the viewer, and the figure subject is overwhelmed by the still-life composition. The various meats, including sausages, beef, fish, fowl and pork, are arranged on wooden tables, using baskets, pots and plates. A barrel and some wickerwork chairs serve as containers for the food items as well.\n\nAlmost unnoticed at first are glimpses through the stall windows of an imaginary landscape with a road. Through the smaller window in the middle is a second landscape with a distant view. These small landscapes are hiding a religious narrative: they depict the Holy Family distributing alms on their journey to Egypt to escape from Herod's harassment. The other people depicted on the road are walking in the direction of the church. Both those people and the Holy family are dressed in contemporary Netherlandish clothing. On the right side, behind a figure drawing water from the well, there is a tavern with genre figures depicting a merry company eating oysters and mussels. In front of the tavern hangs a pig carcass that is very similar to Rembrandt's painting of a slaughtered ox.\n\nThe ground around the inn is covered with oyster shells, which allude to lust. In the tavern there is a scene showing the biblical theme of the prodigal son, and the woman depicted in the tavern may be a prostitute with her customers. The painting is rich with symbolic representation: it conveys hidden messages. The fish, displayed crossed on a pewter plate, are a reference to Lent, when the faithful abstained from eating meat. The contrast between the charity of the poor fugitives giving alms and the richness and abundance of the food conveys a certain religious symbolism and hidden meaning, linking to the idea of \"food for the body\" with the idea of \"food for the soul\", the spiritual \"bread of life\", appealing to the viewers to turn their attention away from the things of this world. The entire Holy Family is depicted in this part of the painting. Mary, holding the Christ child and riding a donkey, led by Joseph, offers bread to a poor family, sharing what little they have. The young boy and his father are receiving the bread from Mary, with the bread representing the Eucharist. The abundance and richness of the food in the stall is probably a satire on gluttony. The meat can also be seen as a symbolic representation of, and allusion to, the 'weak flesh' (Matthew 16:41). The slaughtered animals may symbolise the death of a believer, a fairly common iconography in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nIn the upper right-hand part of the painting, a handwritten sign is posted on a wood placard. In Flemish, the variety of the Dutch language spoken in Flanders in northern Belgium, it reads, \"behind here are 154 rods of land for sale immediately, either by the rod according to your convenience or all at once\". Scholarly discussion about the sign has reached a general consensus that the message \"functions as a metaphorical commentary on this scene\", conveying a warning about society losing spiritual wealth by placing too great an emphasis upon material gain.\n\nThis painting is held by the North Carolina Museum of Art, but there are at least four versions of the same painting, indicating that it was a famous work at the time, often copied and admired. The different paintings, somewhat differing in size, are: \"A Meat Stall with the Holy Family Giving Alms\" at the North Carolina Museum of Art, ; \"Butcher's Stall with the Flight into Egypt\" in Gustavianum, University Art Collections, Uppsala University, , workshop of the artist; \"Still Life with Meat and the Holy Family\", , workshop of the artist, hosted at Fundación Banco Santander, and \"The meat stall with the flight into Egypt\", hosted at Bonnefanten Museum, workshop of the artist.\n\n"}
{"id": "48275203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48275203", "title": "Ankaralı Namık", "text": "Ankaralı Namık\n\nNamık Uğurlu (30 April 1976 – 18 October 2015), or Ankaralı Namık, was a Turkish singer. \"Ankaralı\" means from Ankara, denoting his musical style of Ankara's ethnic music. He is best known for his songs \"Arabada Beş, Evde Onbeş\", \"Aganigi Naganigi\" and \"Dar Geldi Sana Ankara\".\n\nOn 19 September 2015, he had a traffic accident with his wife, in which he was severely injured. One month after the accident, on 18 October 2015, he fell from the 7th floor of his home to his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "77414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77414", "title": "Antinous", "text": "Antinous\n\nAntinous (also \"Antinoüs\" or \"Antinoös\"; ; 27 November, c. 111 – before 30 October 130) was a Bithynian Greek youth and a favourite, or lover, of the Roman emperor Hadrian. He was deified after his death, being worshiped in both the Greek East and Latin West, sometimes as a god (\"theos\") and sometimes merely as a hero (\"heros\").\n\nLittle is known of Antinous' life, although it is known that he was born in Claudiopolis (present day Bolu, Turkey), in the Roman province of Bithynia. He was probably introduced to Hadrian in 123, before being taken to Italy for a higher education. He had become the favourite of Hadrian by 128, when he was taken on a tour of the Empire as part of Hadrian's personal retinue. Antinous accompanied Hadrian during his attendance of the annual Eleusinian Mysteries in Athens, and was with him when he killed the Marousian lion in Libya. In October 130, as they were part of a flotilla going along the Nile, Antinous died amid mysterious circumstances. Various suggestions have been put forward for how he died, ranging from an accidental drowning to an intentional human sacrifice or suicide.\n\nFollowing his death, Hadrian deified Antinous and founded an organised cult devoted to his worship that spread throughout the Empire. Hadrian founded the city of Antinopolis close to Antinous's place of death, which became a cultic centre for the worship of Osiris-Antinous. Hadrian also founded games in commemoration of Antinous to take place in both Antinopolis and Athens, with Antinous becoming a symbol of Hadrian's dreams of pan-Hellenism.\n\nAntinous became associated with homosexuality in Western culture, appearing in the work of Oscar Wilde and Fernando Pessoa.\n\nThe Classicist Caroline Vout noted that most of the texts dealing with Antinous's biography only dealt with him briefly and were post-Hadrianic in date, thus commenting that \"reconstructing a detailed biography is impossible\". The historian Thorsten Opper noted that \"Hardly anything is known of Antinous' life, and the fact that our sources get more detailed the later they are does not inspire confidence.\" Antinous's biographer Royston Lambert echoed this view, commenting that information on him was \"tainted always by distance, sometimes by prejudice and by the alarming and bizarre ways in which the principal sources have been transmitted to us.\"\n\nIt is known that Antinous was born to a Greek family in the city of Claudiopolis, which was located in the Roman province of Bithynia in what is now north-west Turkey. The year of Antinous's birth is not recorded, although it is estimated that it was probably between 110 and 112 AD. Early sources record that his birthday was in November, and although the exact date is not known, Lambert asserted that it was probably on 27 November. Given the location of his birth and his physical appearance, it is likely that part of his ancestry was not Greek.\n\nThere are various potential origins for the name \"Antinous\"; it is possible that he was named after the character of Antinous, who is one of Penelope's suitors in Homer's epic poem, the \"Odyssey\". Another possibility is that he was given the male equivalent of Antinoë, a woman who was one of the founding figures of Mantineia, a city which probably had close relations with Bithynia. Although many historians from the Renaissance onward asserted that Antinous had been a slave, only one of around fifty early sources claim this, and it remains unlikely, as it would have proved heavily controversial to deify a former slave in Roman society. There is no surviving reliable evidence attesting to Antinous's family background, although Lambert believed it most likely that his family would have been peasant farmers or small business owners, thereby being socially undistinguished yet not from the poorest sectors of society. Lambert also considered it likely that Antinous would have had a basic education as a child, having been taught how to read and write.\n\nThe Emperor Hadrian spent much time during his regime touring his Empire, and arrived in Claudiopolis in June 123, which was probably when he first encountered Antinous. Given Hadrian's personality, Lambert thought it unlikely that they had become lovers at this point, instead suggesting it probable that Antinous had been selected to be sent to Italy, where he was probably schooled at the imperial paedagogium at the Caelian Hill. Hadrian meanwhile had continued to tour the Empire, only returning to Italy in September 125, when he settled into his villa at Tibur. It was at some point over the following three years that Antinous became his personal favourite, for by the time he left for Greece three years later, he brought Antinous with him in his personal retinue.\n\nLambert described Antinous as \"the one person who seems to have connected most profoundly with Hadrian\" throughout the latter's life. Hadrian's marriage to Sabina was unhappy, and there is no reliable evidence that he ever expressed a sexual attraction for women, in contrast to much reliable early evidence that he was sexually attracted to boys and young men. For centuries, sexual relations between a man and a boy had been socially acceptable among Greece's leisured and citizen classes, with an older \"erastes\" (aged between 20 and 40) undertaking a caring sexual relationship with an \"eromenos\" (aged between 12 and 18) and taking a key role in their education; and Hadrian took Antinous as a favoured servant when they were aged about 48 and 13. Such a societal institution of pederasty was not indigenous to Roman culture, although bisexuality was the norm in the upper echelons of Roman society by the early 2nd century.\n\nIt is known that Hadrian believed Antinous to be intelligent and wise, which might explain part of the attraction. Another factor was potentially a shared love of hunting, which was seen as a particularly manly pursuit in Roman culture. Although none survive, it is known that Hadrian wrote both an autobiography and erotic poetry about his boy favourites; it is therefore likely that he wrote about Antinous. Early sources are explicit that the relationship between Hadrian and Antinous was sexual. During their relationship, there is no evidence that Antinous ever used his influence over Hadrian for personal or political gain.\n\nIn March 127, Hadrian – probably accompanied by Antinous – traveled through the Sabine area of Italy, Picenum, and Campania. From 127 to 129 the Emperor was then afflicted with an illness that doctors were unable to explain. In April 128 he laid the foundation stone for a temple of Venus and Rome in the city of Rome, during a ritual where he may well have been accompanied by Antinous. From there, Hadrian went on a tour of North Africa, during which he was accompanied by Antinous. In late 128 Hadrian and Antinous landed in Corinth, proceeding to Athens, where they remained until May 129, accompanied by Sabina, the Caeserii brothers, and Pedanius Fuscus the Younger. It was in Athens in September 128 that they attended the annual celebrations of the Great Mysteries of Eleusis, where Hadrian was initiated into the position of \"epoptes\" in the Telesterion. It is generally agreed, although not proven, that Antinous was also initiated at that time.\n\nFrom there they headed to Asia Minor, settling in Antioch in June 129, where they were based for a year, visiting Syria, Arabia, and Judea. From there, Hadrian became increasingly critical of Jewish culture, which he feared opposed Romanisation, and so introduced policies banning circumcision and building a Temple of Zeus-Jupiter on the former site of the Jewish Temple . From there, they headed to Egypt. Arriving in Alexandria in August 130, there they visited the sarcophagus of Alexander the Great. Although welcomed with public praise and ceremony, some of Hadrian's appointments and actions angered the city's Hellenic social elite, who began to gossip about his sexual activities, including those with Antinous.\n\nSoon after, and probably in September 130, Hadrian and Antinous traveled west to Libya, where they had heard of a Marousian lion causing problems for local people. They hunted down the lion, and although the exact events are unclear, it is apparent that Hadrian saved Antinous' life during their confrontation with it, before the beast itself was killed. Hadrian widely publicised the event, casting bronze medallions of it, getting historians to write about it, commissioning Pancrates to write a poem about it, and having a tondo depicting it created which was later placed on the Arch of Constantine. On this tondo it was clear that Antinous was no longer a youth, having become more muscular and hairy, perceptibly more able to resist his master; and thus it is likely that his relationship with Hadrian was changing as a result.\n\nIn late September or early October 130, Hadrian and his entourage, among them Antinous, assembled at Heliopolis to set sail upstream as part of a flotilla along the River Nile. The retinue included officials, the Prefect, army and naval commanders, as well as literary and scholarly figures. Possibly also joining them was Lucius Ceionius Commodus, a young aristocrat whom Antinous might have deemed a rival to Hadrian's affections. On their journey up the Nile, they stopped at Hermopolis Magna, the primary shrine to the god Thoth. It was shortly after this, in October 130 – around the time of the festival of Osiris – that Antinous fell into the river and died, probably from drowning. Hadrian publicly announced his death, with gossip soon spreading throughout the Empire that Antinous had been intentionally killed. The nature of Antinous's death remains a mystery to this day, and it is possible that Hadrian himself never knew; however, various hypotheses have been put forward.\n\nOne possibility is that he was murdered by a conspiracy at court. However, Lambert asserted that this was unlikely because it lacked any supporting historical evidence, and because Antinous himself seemingly exerted little influence over Hadrian, thus meaning that an assassination served little purpose. Another suggestion is that Antinous had died during a voluntary castration as part of an attempt to retain his youth and thus his sexual appeal to Hadrian. However, this is improbable because Hadrian deemed both castration and circumcision to be abominations and as Antinous was aged between 18 and 20 at the time of death, any such operation would have been ineffective. A third possibility is that the death was accidental, perhaps if Antinous was intoxicated. However, in the surviving evidence Hadrian does not describe the death as being an accident; Lambert thought that this was suspicious.\n\nAnother possibility is that Antinous represented a voluntary human sacrifice. Our earliest surviving evidence for this comes from the writings of Dio Cassius, 80 years after the event, although it would later be repeated in many subsequent sources. In the 2nd century Roman Empire, a belief that the death of one could rejuvenate the health of another was widespread, and Hadrian had been ill for many years; in this scenario, Antinous could have sacrificed himself in the belief that Hadrian would have recovered. In this situation, Hadrian might not have revealed the cause of Antinous's death because he did not wish to appear either physically or politically weak. Conversely, opposing this possibility is the fact that Hadrian disliked human sacrifice and had strengthened laws against it in the Empire.\n\nHadrian was devastated by the death of Antinous, and possibly also experiencing remorse. In Egypt, the local priesthood immediately deified Antinous by identifying him with Osiris due to the manner of his death. In keeping with Egyptian custom, Antinous' body was probably embalmed and mummified by priests, a lengthy process which might explain why Hadrian remained in Egypt until spring 131. While there, in October 130 Hadrian proclaimed Antinous to be a deity and announced that a city should be built on the site of his death in commemoration of him, to be called Antinopolis. The deification of human beings was not uncommon in the Classical world, however the public and formal divinisation of humans was reserved for the Emperor and members of the imperial family; thus Hadrian's decision to declare Antinous a god and create a formal cult devoted to him was highly unusual, and he did so without the permission of the Senate. Although the cult of Antinous therefore had connections with the imperial cult, it remained separate and distinct. Hadrian also identified a star in the sky between the Eagle and the Zodiac to be Antinous, and came to associate the rosy lotus that grew on the banks of the Nile as being the flower of Antinous.\nIt is unknown exactly where Antinous' body was buried. It has been argued that either his body or some relics associated with him would have been interred at a shrine in Antinopolis, although this has yet to be identified archaeologically. However, a surviving obelisk contains an inscription strongly suggesting that Antinous' body was interred at Hadrian's country estate, the Villa Adriana at Tibur in Italy.\nIt is unclear whether Hadrian genuinely believed that Antinous had become a god. He would have also had political motives for creating the organised cult, for it enshrined political and personal loyalties specifically to him. In October 131 he proceeded to Athens, where from 131-32 he founded the Panhellenion, an attempt to foster Greek self-consciousness, erode the feuding endemic to the Greek city-states, and promote the worship of the ancient gods; being Greek himself, the god Antinous helped Hadrian's cause in this, representing a symbol of pan-Hellenic unity. In Athens, Hadrian also established a festival to be held in honour of Antinous in October, the Antinoeia.\n\nAntinous was understood differently by his various worshippers, in part due to regional and cultural variation. In some inscriptions he is identified as a divine hero, in others as a god, and in others as both a divine hero and a god. Conversely, in many Egyptian inscriptions he is described as both a hero and a god, while in others he was seen as a full god, and in Egypt, he was often understood as a daemon. Inscriptions indicate that Antinous was seen primarily as a benevolent deity, who could be turned to aid his worshippers. He was also seen as a conqueror of death, with his name and image often being included in coffins.\n\nThe city of Antinopolis was erected on the site of Hir-we. All previous buildings were razed and replaced, with the exception of the Temple of Ramses II. Hadrian also had political motives for the creation of Antinopolis, which was to be the first Hellenic city in the Middle Nile region, thus serving as a bastion of Greek culture within the Egyptian area. To encourage Egyptians to integrate with this imported Greek culture, he permitted Greeks and Egyptians in the city to marry and allowed the main deity of Hir-we, Bes, to continue to be worshipped in Antinopolis alongside the new primary deity, Osiris-Antinous. He encouraged Greeks from elsewhere to settle in the new city, using various incentives to do so. The city was designed on a gridiron plan that was typical of Hellenic cities, and embellished with columns and many statues of Antinous, as well as a temple devoted to the deity.\nHadrian proclaimed that games would be held at the city in Spring 131 in commemoration of Antinous. Known as the Antinoeia, they would be held annually for several centuries, being noted as the most important in Egypt. Events included athletic competitions, chariot and equestrian races, and artistic and musical festivals, with prizes including citizenship, money, tokens, and free lifetime maintenance.\n\nAntinopolis continued to grow into the Byzantine era, being Christianised with the conversion of the Empire, however it retained an association with magic for centuries to come. Over the centuries, stone from the Hadrianic city was removed for the construction of homes and mosques. By the 18th century, the ruins of Antinopolis were still visible, being recorded by such European travelers as Jesuit missionary Claude Sicard in 1715 and Edme-François Jomard the surveyor circa 1800. However, in the 19th century, Antinopolis was almost completely destroyed by local industrial production, as the chalk and limestone was burned for powder while stone was used in the construction of a nearby dam and sugar factory.\n\nHadrian was keen to disseminate the cult of Antinous throughout the Roman Empire. He focused on its spread within the Greek lands, and in Summer 131 travelled these areas promoting it by presenting Antinous in a syncretised form with the more familiar deity Hermes. On a visit to Trapezus in 131, he proclaimed the foundation of a temple devoted to Hermes, where the deity was probably venerated as Hermes-Antinous. Although Hadrian preferred to associate Antinous with Hermes, he was far more widely syncretised with the god Dionysus across the Empire.\nThe cult also spread through Egypt, and within a few years of its foundation, altars and temples to the god had been erected in Hermopolis, Alexandria, Oxyrhynchus, Tebytnis, Lykopolis, and Luxor.\n\nThe cult of Antinous was never as large as those of well established deities such as Zeus, Dionysus, Demeter, or Asclepios, or even as large as those of cults which were growing in popularity at that time, such as Isis or Serapis, and was also smaller than the official imperial cult of Hadrian himself. However, it was able to spread throughout the Empire, with traces of the cult having been found in at least 70 cities, although its strength was far greater in certain regions than others. Although the adoption of the Antinous cult was in some cases done to please Hadrian, the evidence makes it clear that the cult was also genuinely popular among the different societal classes in the Empire.\nPart of the appeal was that Antinous had once been human himself, and thus was more relatable than many other deities. In Egypt, Athens, Macedonia, and Italy, children would be named after the deity.\n\nAt least 28 temples were constructed for the worship of Antinous throughout the Empire, although most were fairly modest in design; those at Tarsos, Philadelphia, and Lanuvium consisted of a four-column portico. It is likely however that those which Hadrian was directly involved in, such as at Antinopolis, Bithynion, and Mantineria, were often grander, while in the majority of cases, shrines or altars to Antinous would have been erected in or near the pre-existing temples of the imperial cult, or Dionysus or Hermes. Worshippers would have given votive offerings to the deity at these altars; there is evidence that he was given gifts of food and drink in Egypt, with libations and sacrifices probably being common in Greece. Priests devoted to Antinous would have overseen this worship, with the names of some of these individuals having survived in inscriptions. There is evidence of oracles being present at a number of Antinoan temples.\n\nSculptures of Antinous became widespread, with Hadrian probably having approved a basic model of Antinous' likeness for other sculptors to follow. These sculptures were produced in large quantities between 130 and 138, with estimates being in the region of around 2000, of which at least 115 survive. 44 have been found in Italy, half of which were at Hadrian's Villa Adriana, while 12 have been found in Greece and Asia Minor, and 6 in Egypt. Over 31 cities in the Empire, the majority in Greece and Asia Minor, issued coins depicting Antinous, chiefly between the years 134–35. Many were designed to be used as medallions rather than currency, some of them deliberately made with a hole so that they could be hung from the neck and used as talismans.\nMost production of Antinous-based artefacts ceased following the 130s, although such items continued to be used by the cult's followers for several centuries. Later survivals of his cult largely rested in the Eastern Roman Empire, where his acceptance into the pantheon of gods was better received.\n\nGames held in honour of Antinous were held in at least 9 cities, and included both athletic and artistic components. The games at Bythynion, Antinopolis, and Mantineia were still active by the early 3rd century, while those at Athens and Eleusis were still operating in 266–67. Rumours spread throughout the Empire that at Antinous' cultic centre in Antinopolis, there were \"sacred nights\" characterised by drunken revelries, perhaps including sexual orgies.\n\nThe cult of Antinous was criticised by various individuals, both pagan and Christian. Critics included followers of other pagan cults, such as Pausanias, Lucian, and the Emperor Julian, who were all sceptical about the apotheosis of Antinous, as well as the Sibylline oracles, who were critical of Hadrian more generally. The pagan philosopher Celsus also criticised it for what he perceived as the debauched nature of its Egyptian devotees, arguing that it led people into immoral behaviour, in this way comparing it to Christianity. Surviving examples of Christian condemnation of the Antinous cultus come from figures like Tertullian, Origen, Jerome, and Epiphanios. Viewing the religion as a blasphemous rival to Christianity, they insisted that Antinous had simply been a mortal human and condemned his sexual activities with Hadrian as immoral. Associating his cult with malevolent magic, they argued that Hadrian had imposed his worship through fear.\n\nDuring the struggles between Christians and pagans in Rome during the 4th century, Antinous was championed by members of the latter. As a result of this, the Christian poet Prudentius denounced his worship in 384, while a set of seven contorniates depicting Antinous were issued, based upon the designs of those issued in the 130s.\nMany sculptures of Antinous were destroyed by Christians, as well as by invading barbarian tribes, although in some instances were then re-erected; the Antinous statue at Delphi had been toppled and had its forearms broken off, before being re-erected in a chapel elsewhere. \nMany of the images of Antinous remained in public places until the official prohibition of pagan religions under the reign of Emperor Theodosius in 391.\n\nSome contemporary Neo-Pagan groups have re-sacralized Antinous. His modern cult mainly attracts LGBT polytheists.\n\nHadrian \"turned to [Greek sculptors] to perpetuate the melancholy beauty, diffident manner, and lithe and sensuous frame of his boyfriend Antinous,\" creating in the process what has been described as \"the last independent creation of Greco-Roman art\". It is traditionally assumed that they were all produced between Antinous' death in 130 and that of Hadrian in 138, on the grounds that no-one else would be interested in commissioning them. The assumption is that official models were sent out to provincial workshops all over the empire to be copied, with local variations permitted. It has been asserted that many of these sculptures \"share distinctive features – a broad, swelling chest, a head of tousled curls, a downcast\ngaze – that allow them to be instantly recognized\".\n\nBy 2005, Classicist Caroline Vout could note that more images have been identified of Antinous than of any other figure in classical antiquity with the exceptions of Augustus and Hadrian. She also asserted that the Classical study of these Antinous images was particularly important because of his \"rare mix\" of \"biographical mystery and overwhelming physical presence\".\n\nLambert believed that the sculptures of Antinous \"remain without doubt one of the most elevated and ideal monuments to pederastic love of the whole ancient world\", also describing them as \"the final great creation of classical art\".\n\nThere are also statues in many archaeological museums in Greece including the National Archaeological Museum in Athens, the archaeological museums of Patras, Chalkis and Delphi. Although these may well be idealised images, they demonstrate what all contemporary writers described as Antinous's extraordinary beauty. Although many of the sculptures are instantly recognizable, some offer significant variation in terms of the suppleness and sensuality of the pose and features versus the rigidity and typical masculinity. In 1998 monumental remains were discovered at Hadrian's Villa that archaeologists claimed were from the tomb of Antinous, or a temple to him, though this has been challenged both because of the inconclusive nature of the archaeological remains and the overlooking of patristic sources (Epiphanius, Clement of Alexandria) indicating that Antinous was buried at his temple in Antinopolis, the Egyptian city founded in his honor.\n\nAntinous remained a figure of cultural significance for centuries to come; as Vout noted, he was \"arguably the most notorious pretty boy from the annals of classical history\".\nSculptures of Antinous began to be reproduced from the 16th century; it remains likely that some of these modern examples have subsequently been sold as Classical artefacts and are still viewed as such.\nAntinous has attracted attention from the gay subculture since the 18th century, the most illustrious examples for this being Prince Eugène of Savoy and Frederick the Great of Prussia.\n\nVout noted that Antinous came to be identified as \"a gay icon\".\nNovelist and independent scholar Sarah Waters identified Antinous as being \"at the forefront of the homosexual imagination\" in late 19th-century Europe. In this, Antinous replaced the figure of Ganymede, who had been the primary homoerotic representation in the visual arts during the Renaissance. Gay author Karl Heinrich Ulrichs celebrated Antinous in an 1865 pamphlet that he wrote under the pseudonym of \"Numa Numantius\". In 1893, homophile newspaper \"The Artist\", began offering cast statues of Antinous for £3, 10s.\n\nAt the time, Antinous' fame was increased by the work of fiction and writers and scholars, many of whom were not gay or lesbian.\n\nThe author Oscar Wilde referenced Antinous in both \"The Young King\" (1891) and \"The Sphinx\" (1894). In \"The Young King\", a reference is made to the king kissing a statue of 'the Bithynian slave of Hadrian' in a passage describing the young king's aesthetic sensibilities and his \"...strange passion for beauty...\". Images of other classical paragons of male beauty, Adonis and Endymion, are also mentioned in the same context. Additionally, in Wilde's \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\", the artist Basil Hallward describes the appearance of Dorian Gray as an event as important to his art as \"the face of Antinous was to late Greek sculpture.\" Furthermore, in a novel attributed to Oscar Wilde, \"Teleny, or The Reverse of the Medal\", Des Grieux makes a passing reference to Antinous as he describes how he felt during a musical performance. \"...I now began to understand things hitherto so strange, the love the mighty monarch felt for his fair Grecian slave, Antinous, who – like unto Christ – died for his master's sake.\"\n\nIn \"Les Miserables\", the character Enjolras is likened to Antinous. \"A charming young man who was capable of being a terror. He was angelically good-looking, an untamed Antinous.\" Hugo also remarks that Enjolras was \"seeming not to be aware of the existence on earth of a creature called woman.\" In this way he can also be linked to an Antinoan ideal of male desire and beauty.\n\nIn \"Klage Um Antinous\", \"Der Neuen Gedichte\", \"Anderer Teil\" (1908) by Rainer Maria Rilke, Hadrian scolds the gods for Antinous's deification. \"Lament for Antinoüs\", translation by Stephen Cohn,\n\nIn 1915 Fernando Pessoa wrote a long poem entitled \"Antinous\", but he only published it in 1918, close to the end of World War I, in a slim volume of English verse. In 1921 he published a new version of this poem in \"English Poems\", a book published by his own publishing house, Olisipo.\n\nIn Marguerite Yourcenar's \"Mémoires d'Hadrien\" (1951), the love relationship between Antinous and Hadrian is one of the main themes of the book.\n\nA \"sexually ambivalent\" young man ('Murugan Mailendra') in Aldous Huxley's \"Island\" (1962) is likened to Antinous, and his lover Colonel Dipa (an older man) to Hadrian, after the narrator discovers the two are having a secret affair.\n\nThe story of Antinous' death was dramatized in the radio play \"The Glass Ball Game\", Episode Two of the second series of the BBC radio drama \"Caesar!\", written by Mike Walker, directed by Jeremy Mortimer and starring Jonathan Coy as \"Suetonius\", Jonathan Hyde as \"Hadrian\" and Andrew Garfield as \"Antinous\". In this story, Suetonius is a witness to the events before and after Antinous's death by suicide, but learns that he himself was used as an instrument to trick Antinous into killing himself willingly to fulfill a pact made by Hadrian with Egyptian priests to give Hadrian more time to live so that Marcus Aurelius may grow up to become the next Emperor.\n\nAntinous is seen walking with the other gods to war in Neil Gaiman's novel \"American Gods\". In \"Tipping the Velvet\" (novel by Sarah Waters and its television adaptation), the lesbian protagonist Nan Astley dresses as Antinous for a costume party held by her partner.\n\nOn 13 October 2018, in Toronto, the Canadian Opera Company premiered \"Hadrian\" the second opera by Rufus Wainwright, which tells the tale of the Emperor's grief and his all consuming need to discover the details surrounding Antinous's death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3277", "title": "Antioxidant", "text": "Antioxidant\n\nAntioxidants are compounds that inhibit oxidation. Oxidation is a chemical reaction that can produce free radicals, thereby leading to chain reactions that may damage the cells of organisms. Antioxidants such as thiols or ascorbic acid (vitamin C) terminate these chain reactions. To balance the oxidative state, plants and animals maintain complex systems of overlapping antioxidants, such as glutathione and enzymes (e.g., catalase and superoxide dismutase), produced internally, or the dietary antioxidants vitamin C, and vitamin E.\n\nThe term \"antioxidant\" is mostly used for two entirely different groups of substances: industrial chemicals that are added to products to prevent oxidation, and naturally occurring compounds that are present in foods and tissue. The former, industrial antioxidants, have diverse uses: acting as preservatives in food and cosmetics, and being oxidation-inhibitors in fuels.\n\nAntioxidant dietary supplements have not been shown to improve health in humans, or to be effective at preventing disease. Supplements of beta-carotene, vitamin A, and vitamin E have no positive effect on mortality rate or cancer risk. Additionally, supplementation with selenium or vitamin E do not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.\n\nAlthough certain levels of antioxidant vitamins in the diet are required for good health, there is still considerable debate on whether antioxidant-rich foods or supplements have anti-disease activity. Moreover, if they are actually beneficial, it is unknown which antioxidants are health-promoting in the diet and in what amounts beyond typical dietary intake. Some authors dispute the hypothesis that antioxidant vitamins could prevent chronic diseases, and others declare that the hypothesis is unproven and misguided.\n\nPolyphenols, which often have antioxidant properties in vitro, are not necessarily antioxidants in vivo due to extensive metabolism following digestion. In many polyphenols the catechol group acts as an electron acceptor and is therefore responsible for the antioxidant activity. However, this catechol group undergoes extensive metabolism upon uptake in the human body, for example by catechol-O-methyl transferase, and is therefore no longer able to act as an electron acceptor. Many polyphenols may have non-antioxidant roles in minute concentrations that affect cell-to-cell signaling, receptor sensitivity, inflammatory enzyme activity or gene regulation.\n\nAlthough dietary antioxidants have been investigated for potential effects on neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, these studies have been inconclusive.\n\nCommon pharmaceuticals (and supplements) with antioxidant properties may interfere with the efficacy of certain anticancer medication and radiation. A 2016 systematic review examined allopurinol and acetylcysteine as possible add-on treatments for schizophrenia. Tirilazad, a steroid derivative that inhibits lipid peroxidation, was shown in human trials to have no effect on mortality or other outcomes in subarachnoid haemorrhage and worsened results in ischemic stroke.\n\nRelatively strong reducing acids can have antinutrient effects by binding to dietary minerals such as iron and zinc in the gastrointestinal tract and preventing them from being absorbed. Notable examples are oxalic acid, tannins and phytic acid, which are high in plant-based diets. Calcium and iron deficiencies are not uncommon in diets in developing countries where less meat is eaten and there is high consumption of phytic acid from beans and unleavened whole grain bread.\n\nNonpolar antioxidants such as eugenol—a major component of oil of cloves—have toxicity limits that can be exceeded with the misuse of undiluted essential oils. Toxicity associated with high doses of water-soluble antioxidants such as ascorbic acid are less of a concern, as these compounds can be excreted rapidly in urine. More seriously, very high doses of some antioxidants may have harmful long-term effects. The beta-carotene and Retinol Efficacy Trial (CARET) study of lung cancer patients found that smokers given supplements containing beta-carotene and vitamin A had increased rates of lung cancer. Subsequent studies confirmed these adverse effects.\n\nThese harmful effects may also be seen in non-smokers, as one meta-analysis including data from approximately 230,000 patients showed that β-carotene, vitamin A or vitamin E supplementation is associated with increased mortality, but saw no significant effect from vitamin C. No health risk was seen when all the randomized controlled studies were examined together, but an increase in mortality was detected when only high-quality and low-bias risk trials were examined separately. As the majority of these low-bias trials dealt with either elderly people, or people with disease, these results may not apply to the general population. This meta-analysis was later repeated and extended by the same authors, with the new analysis published by the Cochrane Collaboration; this analysis confirmed the previous results. These two publications are consistent with some previous meta-analyzes that also suggested that Vitamin E supplementation increased mortality, and that antioxidant supplements increased the risk of colon cancer. Beta-carotene may also increase lung cancer. Overall, the large number of clinical trials carried out on antioxidant supplements suggest that either these products have no effect on health, or that they cause a small increase in mortality in elderly or vulnerable populations.\n\nWhile antioxidant supplementation is widely used in attempts to prevent the development of cancer, antioxidants may interfere with cancer treatments, since the environment of cancer cells causes high levels of oxidative stress, making these cells more susceptible to the further oxidative stress induced by treatments. As a result, by reducing the redox stress in cancer cells, antioxidant supplements (and pharmaceuticals) could decrease the effectiveness of radiotherapy and chemotherapy. On the other hand, other reviews have suggested that antioxidants could reduce side effects or increase survival times.\n\nA paradox in metabolism is that, while the vast majority of complex life on Earth requires oxygen for its existence, oxygen is a highly reactive molecule that damages living organisms by producing reactive oxygen species. Consequently, organisms contain a complex network of antioxidant metabolites and enzymes that work together to prevent oxidative damage to cellular components such as DNA, proteins and lipids. In general, antioxidant systems either prevent these reactive species from being formed, or remove them before they can damage vital components of the cell. However, reactive oxygen species also have useful cellular functions, such as redox signaling. Thus, the function of antioxidant systems is not to remove oxidants entirely, but instead to keep them at an optimum level.\n\nThe reactive oxygen species produced in cells include hydrogen peroxide (HO), hypochlorous acid (HClO), and free radicals such as the hydroxyl radical (·OH) and the superoxide anion (O). The hydroxyl radical is particularly unstable and will react rapidly and non-specifically with most biological molecules. This species is produced from hydrogen peroxide in metal-catalyzed redox reactions such as the Fenton reaction. These oxidants can damage cells by starting chemical chain reactions such as lipid peroxidation, or by oxidizing DNA or proteins. Damage to DNA can cause mutations and possibly cancer, if not reversed by DNA repair mechanisms, while damage to proteins causes enzyme inhibition, denaturation and protein degradation.\n\nThe use of oxygen as part of the process for generating metabolic energy produces reactive oxygen species. In this process, the superoxide anion is produced as a by-product of several steps in the electron transport chain. Particularly important is the reduction of coenzyme Q in complex III, since a highly reactive free radical is formed as an intermediate (Q·). This unstable intermediate can lead to electron \"leakage\", when electrons jump directly to oxygen and form the superoxide anion, instead of moving through the normal series of well-controlled reactions of the electron transport chain. Peroxide is also produced from the oxidation of reduced flavoproteins, such as complex I. However, although these enzymes can produce oxidants, the relative importance of the electron transfer chain to other processes that generate peroxide is unclear. In plants, algae, and cyanobacteria, reactive oxygen species are also produced during photosynthesis, particularly under conditions of high light intensity. This effect is partly offset by the involvement of carotenoids in photoinhibition, and in algae and cyanobacteria, by large amount of iodide and selenium, which involves these antioxidants reacting with over-reduced forms of the photosynthetic reaction centres to prevent the production of reactive oxygen species.\n\nAntioxidants are classified into two broad divisions, depending on whether they are soluble in water (hydrophilic) or in lipids (lipophilic). In general, water-soluble antioxidants react with oxidants in the cell cytosol and the blood plasma, while lipid-soluble antioxidants protect cell membranes from lipid peroxidation. These compounds may be synthesized in the body or obtained from the diet. The different antioxidants are present at a wide range of concentrations in body fluids and tissues, with some such as glutathione or ubiquinone mostly present within cells, while others such as uric acid are more evenly distributed (see table below). Some antioxidants are only found in a few organisms and these compounds can be important in pathogens and can be virulence factors.\n\nThe relative importance and interactions between these different antioxidants is a very complex question, with the various antioxidant compounds and antioxidant enzyme systems having synergistic and interdependent effects on one another. The action of one antioxidant may therefore depend on the proper function of other members of the antioxidant system. The amount of protection provided by any one antioxidant will also depend on its concentration, its reactivity towards the particular reactive oxygen species being considered, and the status of the antioxidants with which it interacts.\n\nSome compounds contribute to antioxidant defense by chelating transition metals and preventing them from catalyzing the production of free radicals in the cell. Particularly important is the ability to sequester iron, which is the function of iron-binding proteins such as transferrin and ferritin. Selenium and zinc are commonly referred to as \"antioxidant nutrients\", but these chemical elements have no antioxidant action themselves and are instead required for the activity of some antioxidant enzymes, as is discussed below.\n\nUric acid is by far the highest concentration antioxidant in human blood. Uric acid (UA) is an antioxidant oxypurine produced from xanthine by the enzyme xanthine oxidase, and is an intermediate product of purine metabolism. In almost all land animals, urate oxidase further catalyzes the oxidation of uric acid to allantoin, but in humans and most higher primates, the urate oxidase gene is nonfunctional, so that UA is not further broken down. The evolutionary reasons for this loss of urate conversion to allantoin remain the topic of active speculation. The antioxidant effects of uric acid have led researchers to suggest this mutation was beneficial to early primates and humans. Studies of high altitude acclimatization support the hypothesis that urate acts as an antioxidant by mitigating the oxidative stress caused by high-altitude hypoxia.\n\nUric acid has the highest concentration of any blood antioxidant and provides over half of the total antioxidant capacity of human serum. Uric acid's antioxidant activities are also complex, given that it does not react with some oxidants, such as superoxide, but does act against peroxynitrite, peroxides, and hypochlorous acid. Concerns over elevated UA's contribution to gout must be considered as one of many risk factors. By itself, UA-related risk of gout at high levels (415–530 μmol/L) is only 0.5% per year with an increase to 4.5% per year at UA supersaturation levels (535+ μmol/L). Many of these aforementioned studies determined UA's antioxidant actions within normal physiological levels, and some found antioxidant activity at levels as high as 285 μmol/L.\n\nAscorbic acid or \"vitamin C\" is a monosaccharide oxidation-reduction (redox) catalyst found in both animals and plants. As one of the enzymes needed to make ascorbic acid has been lost by mutation during primate evolution, humans must obtain it from the diet; it is therefore a vitamin. Most other animals are able to produce this compound in their bodies and do not require it in their diets. Ascorbic acid is required for the conversion of the procollagen to collagen by oxidizing proline residues to hydroxyproline. In other cells, it is maintained in its reduced form by reaction with glutathione, which can be catalysed by protein disulfide isomerase and glutaredoxins. Ascorbic acid is a redox catalyst which can reduce, and thereby neutralize, reactive oxygen species such as hydrogen peroxide. In addition to its direct antioxidant effects, ascorbic acid is also a substrate for the redox enzyme ascorbate peroxidase, a function that is particularly important in stress resistance in plants. Ascorbic acid is present at high levels in all parts of plants and can reach concentrations of 20 millimolar in chloroplasts.\n\nGlutathione is a cysteine-containing peptide found in most forms of aerobic life. It is not required in the diet and is instead synthesized in cells from its constituent amino acids. Glutathione has antioxidant properties since the thiol group in its cysteine moiety is a reducing agent and can be reversibly oxidized and reduced. In cells, glutathione is maintained in the reduced form by the enzyme glutathione reductase and in turn reduces other metabolites and enzyme systems, such as ascorbate in the glutathione-ascorbate cycle, glutathione peroxidases and glutaredoxins, as well as reacting directly with oxidants. Due to its high concentration and its central role in maintaining the cell's redox state, glutathione is one of the most important cellular antioxidants. In some organisms glutathione is replaced by other thiols, such as by mycothiol in the Actinomycetes, bacillithiol in some Gram-positive bacteria, or by trypanothione in the Kinetoplastids.\n\nVitamin E is the collective name for a set of eight related tocopherols and tocotrienols, which are fat-soluble vitamins with antioxidant properties. Of these, α-tocopherol has been most studied as it has the highest bioavailability, with the body preferentially absorbing and metabolising this form.\n\nIt has been claimed that the α-tocopherol form is the most important lipid-soluble antioxidant, and that it protects membranes from oxidation by reacting with lipid radicals produced in the lipid peroxidation chain reaction. This removes the free radical intermediates and prevents the propagation reaction from continuing. This reaction produces oxidised α-tocopheroxyl radicals that can be recycled back to the active reduced form through reduction by other antioxidants, such as ascorbate, retinol or ubiquinol. This is in line with findings showing that α-tocopherol, but not water-soluble antioxidants, efficiently protects glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4)-deficient cells from cell death. GPx4 is the only known enzyme that efficiently reduces lipid-hydroperoxides within biological membranes.\n\nHowever, the roles and importance of the various forms of vitamin E are presently unclear, and it has even been suggested that the most important function of α-tocopherol is as a signaling molecule, with this molecule having no significant role in antioxidant metabolism. The functions of the other forms of vitamin E are even less well understood, although γ-tocopherol is a nucleophile that may react with electrophilic mutagens, and tocotrienols may be important in protecting neurons from damage.\n\nAntioxidants that are reducing agents can also act as pro-oxidants. For example, vitamin C has antioxidant activity when it reduces oxidizing substances such as hydrogen peroxide, however, it will also reduce metal ions that generate free radicals through the Fenton reaction.\n\nThe relative importance of the antioxidant and pro-oxidant activities of antioxidants is an area of current research, but vitamin C, which exerts its effects as a vitamin by oxidizing polypeptides, appears to have a mostly antioxidant action in the human body. However, less data is available for other dietary antioxidants, such as vitamin E, or the polyphenols. Likewise, the pathogenesis of diseases involving hyperuricemia likely involve uric acid's direct and indirect pro-oxidant properties.\n\nThat is, paradoxically, agents which are normally considered antioxidants can act as conditional pro-oxidants and actually increase oxidative stress. Besides ascorbate, medically important conditional pro-oxidants include uric acid and sulfhydryl amino acids such as homocysteine. Typically, this involves some transition-series metal such as copper or iron as catalyst. The potential role of the pro-oxidant role of uric acid in (e.g.) atherosclerosis and ischemic stroke is considered above. Another example is the postulated role of homocysteine in atherosclerosis.\n\nAs with the chemical antioxidants, cells are protected against oxidative stress by an interacting network of antioxidant enzymes. Here, the superoxide released by processes such as oxidative phosphorylation is first converted to hydrogen peroxide and then further reduced to give water. This detoxification pathway is the result of multiple enzymes, with superoxide dismutases catalysing the first step and then catalases and various peroxidases removing hydrogen peroxide. As with antioxidant metabolites, the contributions of these enzymes to antioxidant defenses can be hard to separate from one another, but the generation of transgenic mice lacking just one antioxidant enzyme can be informative.\n\nSuperoxide dismutases (SODs) are a class of closely related enzymes that catalyze the breakdown of the superoxide anion into oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. SOD enzymes are present in almost all aerobic cells and in extracellular fluids. Superoxide dismutase enzymes contain metal ion cofactors that, depending on the isozyme, can be copper, zinc, manganese or iron. In humans, the copper/zinc SOD is present in the cytosol, while manganese SOD is present in the mitochondrion. There also exists a third form of SOD in extracellular fluids, which contains copper and zinc in its active sites. The mitochondrial isozyme seems to be the most biologically important of these three, since mice lacking this enzyme die soon after birth. In contrast, the mice lacking copper/zinc SOD (Sod1) are viable but have numerous pathologies and a reduced lifespan (see article on superoxide), while mice without the extracellular SOD have minimal defects (sensitive to hyperoxia). In plants, SOD isozymes are present in the cytosol and mitochondria, with an iron SOD found in chloroplasts that is absent from vertebrates and yeast.\n\nCatalases are enzymes that catalyse the conversion of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen, using either an iron or manganese cofactor. This protein is localized to peroxisomes in most eukaryotic cells. Catalase is an unusual enzyme since, although hydrogen peroxide is its only substrate, it follows a ping-pong mechanism. Here, its cofactor is oxidised by one molecule of hydrogen peroxide and then regenerated by transferring the bound oxygen to a second molecule of substrate. Despite its apparent importance in hydrogen peroxide removal, humans with genetic deficiency of catalase — \"acatalasemia\" — or mice genetically engineered to lack catalase completely, suffer few ill effects.\n\nPeroxiredoxins are peroxidases that catalyze the reduction of hydrogen peroxide, organic hydroperoxides, as well as peroxynitrite. They are divided into three classes: typical 2-cysteine peroxiredoxins; atypical 2-cysteine peroxiredoxins; and 1-cysteine peroxiredoxins. These enzymes share the same basic catalytic mechanism, in which a redox-active cysteine (the peroxidatic cysteine) in the active site is oxidized to a sulfenic acid by the peroxide substrate. Over-oxidation of this cysteine residue in peroxiredoxins inactivates these enzymes, but this can be reversed by the action of sulfiredoxin. Peroxiredoxins seem to be important in antioxidant metabolism, as mice lacking peroxiredoxin 1 or 2 have shortened lifespan and suffer from hemolytic anaemia, while plants use peroxiredoxins to remove hydrogen peroxide generated in chloroplasts.\n\nThe thioredoxin system contains the 12-kDa protein thioredoxin and its companion thioredoxin reductase. Proteins related to thioredoxin are present in all sequenced organisms. Plants, such as \"Arabidopsis thaliana,\" have a particularly great diversity of isoforms. The active site of thioredoxin consists of two neighboring cysteines, as part of a highly conserved CXXC motif, that can cycle between an active dithiol form (reduced) and an oxidized disulfide form. In its active state, thioredoxin acts as an efficient reducing agent, scavenging reactive oxygen species and maintaining other proteins in their reduced state. After being oxidized, the active thioredoxin is regenerated by the action of thioredoxin reductase, using NADPH as an electron donor.\n\nThe glutathione system includes glutathione, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidases, and glutathione \"S\"-transferases. This system is found in animals, plants and microorganisms. Glutathione peroxidase is an enzyme containing four selenium-cofactors that catalyzes the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide and organic hydroperoxides. There are at least four different glutathione peroxidase isozymes in animals. Glutathione peroxidase 1 is the most abundant and is a very efficient scavenger of hydrogen peroxide, while glutathione peroxidase 4 is most active with lipid hydroperoxides. Surprisingly, glutathione peroxidase 1 is dispensable, as mice lacking this enzyme have normal lifespans, but they are hypersensitive to induced oxidative stress. In addition, the glutathione \"S\"-transferases show high activity with lipid peroxides. These enzymes are at particularly high levels in the liver and also serve in detoxification metabolism.\n\nOxidative stress is thought to contribute to the development of a wide range of diseases including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, the pathologies caused by diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and neurodegeneration in motor neuron diseases. In many of these cases, it is unclear if oxidants trigger the disease, or if they are produced as a secondary consequence of the disease and from general tissue damage; One case in which this link is particularly well understood is the role of oxidative stress in cardiovascular disease. Here, low density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation appears to trigger the process of atherogenesis, which results in atherosclerosis, and finally cardiovascular disease.\n\nOxidative damage in DNA can cause cancer. Several antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glutathione S-transferase etc. protect DNA from oxidative stress. It has been proposed that polymorphisms in these enzymes are associated with DNA damage and subsequently the individual's risk of cancer susceptibility.\n\nA low calorie diet extends median and maximum lifespan in many animals. This effect may involve a reduction in oxidative stress. While there is some evidence to support the role of oxidative stress in aging in model organisms such as \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and \"Caenorhabditis elegans\", the evidence in mammals is less clear. Indeed, a 2009 review of experiments in mice concluded that almost all manipulations of antioxidant systems had no effect on aging.\n\nAntioxidants are used as food additives to help guard against food deterioration. Exposure to oxygen and sunlight are the two main factors in the oxidation of food, so food is preserved by keeping in the dark and sealing it in containers or even coating it in wax, as with cucumbers. However, as oxygen is also important for plant respiration, storing plant materials in anaerobic conditions produces unpleasant flavors and unappealing colors. Consequently, packaging of fresh fruits and vegetables contains an ~8% oxygen atmosphere. Antioxidants are an especially important class of preservatives as, unlike bacterial or fungal spoilage, oxidation reactions still occur relatively rapidly in frozen or refrigerated food. These preservatives include natural antioxidants such as ascorbic acid (AA, E300) and tocopherols (E306), as well as synthetic antioxidants such as propyl gallate (PG, E310), tertiary butylhydroquinone (TBHQ), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA, E320) and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT, E321).\n\nThe most common molecules attacked by oxidation are unsaturated fats; oxidation causes them to turn rancid. Since oxidized lipids are often discolored and usually have unpleasant tastes such as metallic or sulfurous flavors, it is important to avoid oxidation in fat-rich foods. Thus, these foods are rarely preserved by drying; instead, they are preserved by smoking, salting or fermenting. Even less fatty foods such as fruits are sprayed with sulfurous antioxidants prior to air drying. Oxidation is often catalyzed by metals, which is why fats such as butter should never be wrapped in aluminium foil or kept in metal containers. Some fatty foods such as olive oil are partially protected from oxidation by their natural content of antioxidants, but remain sensitive to photooxidation. Antioxidant preservatives are also added to fat based cosmetics such as lipstick and moisturizers to prevent rancidity.\n\nAntioxidants are frequently added to industrial products. A common use is as stabilizers in fuels and lubricants to prevent oxidation, and in gasolines to prevent the polymerization that leads to the formation of engine-fouling residues. In 2014, the worldwide market for natural and synthetic antioxidants was US $2.25 billion with a forecast of growth to $3.25 billion by 2020.\n\nAntioxidant polymer stabilizers are widely used to prevent the degradation of polymers such as rubbers, plastics and adhesives that causes a loss of strength and flexibility in these materials. Polymers containing double bonds in their main chains, such as natural rubber and polybutadiene, are especially susceptible to oxidation and ozonolysis. They can be protected by antiozonants. Solid polymer products start to crack on exposed surfaces as the material degrades and the chains break. The mode of cracking varies between oxygen and ozone attack, the former causing a \"crazy paving\" effect, while ozone attack produces deeper cracks aligned at right angles to the tensile strain in the product. Oxidation and UV degradation are also frequently linked, mainly because UV radiation creates free radicals by bond breakage. The free radicals then react with oxygen to produce peroxy radicals which cause yet further damage, often in a chain reaction. Other polymers susceptible to oxidation include polypropylene and polyethylene. The former is more sensitive owing to the presence of secondary carbon atoms present in every repeat unit. Attack occurs at this point because the free radical formed is more stable than one formed on a primary carbon atom. Oxidation of polyethylene tends to occur at weak links in the chain, such as branch points in low-density polyethylene.\n\nAntioxidant vitamins are found in vegetables, fruits, eggs, legumes and nuts. Vitamins A, C, and E can be destroyed by long-term storage or prolonged cooking. The effects of cooking and food processing are complex, as these processes can also increase the bioavailability of antioxidants, such as some carotenoids in vegetables. Processed food contains fewer antioxidant vitamins than fresh and uncooked foods, as preparation exposes food to heat and oxygen.\n\nOther antioxidants are not obtained from the diet, but instead are made in the body. For example, ubiquinol (coenzyme Q) is poorly absorbed from the gut and is made through the mevalonate pathway. Another example is glutathione, which is made from amino acids. As any glutathione in the gut is broken down to free cysteine, glycine and glutamic acid before being absorbed, even large oral intake has little effect on the concentration of glutathione in the body. Although large amounts of sulfur-containing amino acids such as acetylcysteine can increase glutathione, no evidence exists that eating high levels of these glutathione precursors is beneficial for healthy adults.\n\nMeasurement of antioxidant content in food is not a straightforward process, as antioxidants collectively are a diverse group of compounds with different reactivities to various reactive oxygen species. In food science, the oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) was once an industry standard for estimating antioxidant strength of whole foods, juices and food additives, mainly from the presence of polyphenols. Earlier measurements and ratings by the United States Department of Agriculture were withdrawn in 2012 as biologically irrelevant to human health, referring to an absence of physiological evidence for polyphenols having antioxidant properties \"in vivo\". Consequently, the ORAC method, derived only from \"in vitro\" experiments, is no longer considered relevant to human diets or biology.\n\nAlternative \"in vitro\" measurements of antioxidant content in foods – also based on the presence of polyphenols – include the Folin-Ciocalteu reagent, and the Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity assay.\n\nAs part of their adaptation from marine life, terrestrial plants began producing non-marine antioxidants such as ascorbic acid (vitamin C), polyphenols and tocopherols. The evolution of angiosperm plants between 50 and 200 million years ago resulted in the development of many antioxidant pigments – particularly during the Jurassic period – as chemical defences against reactive oxygen species that are byproducts of photosynthesis. Originally, the term antioxidant specifically referred to a chemical that prevented the consumption of oxygen. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, extensive study concentrated on the use of antioxidants in important industrial processes, such as the prevention of metal corrosion, the vulcanization of rubber, and the polymerization of fuels in the fouling of internal combustion engines.\n\nEarly research on the role of antioxidants in biology focused on their use in preventing the oxidation of unsaturated fats, which is the cause of rancidity. Antioxidant activity could be measured simply by placing the fat in a closed container with oxygen and measuring the rate of oxygen consumption. However, it was the identification of vitamins C and E as antioxidants that revolutionized the field and led to the realization of the importance of antioxidants in the biochemistry of living organisms. The possible mechanisms of action of antioxidants were first explored when it was recognized that a substance with anti-oxidative activity is likely to be one that is itself readily oxidized. Research into how vitamin E prevents the process of lipid peroxidation led to the identification of antioxidants as reducing agents that prevent oxidative reactions, often by scavenging reactive oxygen species before they can damage cells.\n"}
{"id": "16167377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16167377", "title": "Artificial Intelligence System", "text": "Artificial Intelligence System\n\nArtificial Intelligence System (AIS) was a distributed computing project undertaken by Intelligence Realm, Inc. with the long-term goal of simulating the human brain in real time, complete with artificial consciousness and artificial general intelligence. They claimed to have found, in research, the \"mechanisms of knowledge representation in the brain which is equivalent to finding artificial intelligence\", before moving into the developmental phase.\n\nThe project's initial goal was recreating the largest brain simulation to date, performed by neuroscientist Eugene M. Izhikevich of The Neurosciences Institute in San Diego, California. Izhikevich simulated 1 second of activity of 100 billion neurons (the estimated number of neurons in the human brain) in 50 days using a cluster of 27 3-gigahertz processors. He extrapolated that a real-time simulation of the brain could not be achieved before 2016. The project aimed to disprove this prediction.\n\nOn July 12, 2008, AIS announced that the first phase of the project had been completed by reaching the 100 billion neuron mark. The project then continued to simulate neurons while they completed the development of the other applications.\n\nAIS simulated the brain via an artificial neural network, and used Hodgkin–Huxley models. The project utilized the BOINC distributed computing platform. In version 1.08 of the software each work unit received by a volunteer simulated 500,000 neurons for 100 milliseconds at 5 millisecond time steps (the estimated firing rate of a human neuron).\n\nThe application had four primary modules—for creating neurons, simulating neurons, visualizing neurons, and finally, knowledge acquisition. Intention was that the neuronal generator would eventually use genetic algorithms to generate neurons for simulation. The neuron simulator used mathematical models to simulate those neurons. Initially Hodgkin–Huxley models were used, but more models (perhaps hundreds) were intended to be utilized in the future. The visualization software was to allow the administrators to monitor and control the neuronal simulators. The knowledge acquisition module involved feeding information to the system and training it to build its knowledge base.\n\nThe AIS project had successfully simulated over 700 billion neurons by April 2009.\n\nThe project was closed in November 2010 as the BOINC program of the project did not work.\n\n"}
{"id": "21968023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21968023", "title": "Billy Agnew", "text": "Billy Agnew\n\nWilliam Agnew (9 January 1898 – ?) was a Scottish footballer who played as a forward for Pollok, Ayr United, Falkirk, Port Vale, Arthurlie, and Luton Town.\n\nAgnew played for Pollok, Ayr United and Falkirk, before moving down to England to sign with Port Vale in September 1921. He hit a total of five goals in 31 appearances in the 1921–22 season, and scored his first goal in the Second Division on 29 October, in a 1–0 win at South Shields. However, he was used more sparingly the next season, and scored just one goal in 11 games. After undergoing cartilage operations in the spring of 1923 he was released from his contract at The Old Recreation Ground. He moved on to Arthurlie of the Scottish Third Division, and then returned to the Football League to play for Luton Town.\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "56992282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56992282", "title": "Breffu", "text": "Breffu\n\nBreffu was an Akwamu leader of the 1733 slave insurrection on St. John (then known as \"St. Jan\") in Danish West Indies. She committed suicide with 23 other rebels to evade capture as the rebellion weakened in 1734.\n\nBreffu was enslaved at a plantation owned by Pieter Krøyer, and lived in Coral Bay. On 23 November 1733, hearing the signal of a canon fired from Fort Fredericksvaern, Breffu entered the main house and killed both Krøyer and his wife. Taking all gunpowder and ammunition, and accompanied by fellow slave Christian, Breffu then proceeded to the Van Stell family house, where she killed three members of the plantation owner's family.\n\nShe committed suicide to evade capture, and is thought to have died in either April or May of 1734. Her body was discovered at Browns Bay, along with another 23 rebels who committed suicide, at which a plantation owner recorded his surprise that, \"one of the leaders of the rebellion, Baeffu, whom none of us knew, and whom we assumed to be a man having murdered my son Pieter Krøyer and his wife, is a woman!\"\n\nBreffu has been dramatised as the \"Queen of St John\" in the play \"Three Queens Chautauqua Series: Act I Queen Breffu\". In a 2006 production, Breffu was portrayed by the academic Jaweh David. She has also featured as a subject in festival floats at St John celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "22468739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22468739", "title": "Charles Elers Napier", "text": "Charles Elers Napier\n\nCharles George Elers Napier (22 May 1812 – 20 December 1847), was a British naval officer.\n\nBorn Charles Elers, he was the second son of Lieutenant Edward Elers, RN and his wife Frances Elizabeth, née Younghusband. His uncle was George Elers. In 1815 his mother, now widowed, married Captain Charles Napier, the future admiral, who adopted her children as his own and gave them his name in addition to Elers. Charles Elers Napier entered the Royal Navy at the age of 12, his first ship being HMS \"Ganges\".\n\nIn 1830 he was assigned, with the rank of mate, to the frigate HMS \"Galatea\", then commanded by his stepfather, remaining in her until she paid off in January 1832. Later that year he passed the examination for Lieutenant and was assigned to the gunnery school in HMS \"Excellent\". When during Portugal's Liberal Wars his stepfather was appointed Admiral of the navy of Dom Pedro, he accompanied him as aide-de-camp, with the temporary rank of captain, and distinguished himself by his bravery in the fourth Battle of Cape St. Vincent (1833) in which the navy of Dom Miguel was defeated. When his stepfather's flagship came alongside the Miguelite ship-of-the-line \"Rainha\", Elers Napier and one other officer were the first to board her and were then cut off as the ships yawed apart. Before reinforcements could come to their aid they were both severely wounded: Elers Napier had five serious and ten minor injuries, and owing to his head injuries from sabre cuts he was rendered partially deaf for the rest of his life. For his gallantry he was made a Knight of the Order of the Tower and Sword by Dom Pedro. After he recovered he was appointed by his father to command of the sloop \"Portuense\", and then to the corvette \"Sibylle\", in which he sailed to Madeira to demand the surrender of the Miguelite governor. Subsequently, the ship, renamed \"Eliza\" in honour of his mother, was engaged in blockade duties off the Portuguese coast.\n\nAfter his return to England, Elers Napier served from 1836 to 1837 as a lieutenant in HMS \"Vernon\" in the Mediterranean. When the First Anglo-Chinese War broke out he was appointed to the command the brig-sloop HMS \"Pelican\" on the China Station. Being superseded in this command he was on shore in China for a period and then became aide-de-camp to Admiral Sir William Parker, taking part with him in the capture of Chinkiang by scaling the walls on 21 July 1842. In late 1847, having been made Post Captain, he was appointed to the command of the steam frigate HMS Avenger, joining her at Lisbon, but had been in her only a few weeks when, having left Gibraltar on course for Malta, she was wrecked at night in foul weather on the Sorelle Rocks off the island of Galita, with the loss of all but eight of her complement. Elers Napier had just given the order to lower the boats when he was washed overboard; his body was never found.\n\n"}
{"id": "37082125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37082125", "title": "Clonard Keating", "text": "Clonard Keating\n\nHenry Edward Clonard Keating (13 December 1871 – 1898) was a Nova Scotian and celebrated military officer who served Royal West African Frontier Force on Niger River in Nigeria (British West Africa) when he was killed in the line of duty.\n\nKeating began in the Prince of Wales's Leinster Regiment. From there he requested to be succonded to the West African Frontier Force. As part of the 1st Battaltion, Lieut. Keating arrived at Lokoja on 2 May 1898. He made the trek up river approximately 400 miles to Lafagou, reaching his destination on 12 September 1898. By October, the attrition rate was reported to be 63% of the Europeans, officers and NCOs, dead or invalided home because of the climate and disease.\n\nKeating had 22 men from which to command a sixty mile district from Lafagu, Nigeria to Rofia and Illah. He was stationed in Lafagu and every six weeks had to visit Rofia and Illecon. He took his first tour of inspection of his own-river posts early in October. When it came time to return to Lafagu, on October 9, Keating went with 14 of his troops to the island village of Hela, near Yelwa, for additional canoes. The tribe refused Keatings request. In response, Keating killed the king of the village, expropriated the canoes he needed, and abducted the men required to work them. The villagers attacked Keating with bow and arrow and spears. Keating and his men returned fire. Keating's troops soon ran out of ammunition. A hand to hand fight ensured in which a number of Keating's party were killed on shore before a remnant of the party was finally able to embark. Then the men who had been impressed into service overturned the canoes. The villagers pursued in canoes, throwing spears and shooting arrows at the fleeing patrol. Keating was wounded five times when finally he was killed by a spear to his head. The rest of the patrol was also killed except for two native soldiers who were severely wounded.\n\nIn response, British troops arrived at Hela the following week, on 16 October 1898, killed 100 of the villagers and burned their villages and adjacent fields.\n\nKeating's body was eventually recovered.and buried in the new British fort at Yelwa, a half mile away from Hela. At Keating's gravesite, Keating's comrades built a memorial with a brass plaque and a tablet erected. (There is also a tombstone for Keating at Saint James Cemetery in Toronto.)\n\nThe incident received significant coverage. In Halifax, on Arbor Day, 8 May 1899, the teachers and pupils of Morris Street School, Keatings alma-mater, planted a tree in his memory in the Halifax Public Gardens. General Lord William Seymour, commanding the British troops, gave an address. An easel was set up in front of the tree bearing pictures of both Queen Victoria and Keating, the whole draped in the Leinsters' colours. \"The Herald\" headline declared \"Planted a Tree for Halifax Hero\". In 1925, a marker was installed at the tree.\n\nIn 1900 a memorial plaque was unveiled to honour Keating in Saint Luke's (Anglican) Cathedral, Halifax, subsequently lost to fire. A second plaque was put up in the parish church at Birr, Ireland (where the Leinsters' depot was located) to honour Keating and other Leinsters killed in Africa the same year. At Aldershot, England, Keating's name was included on a tablet to the memory of all the men of the West African Frontier Force who died or were killed in Nigeria.\n\n\nTexts\n\nEndnotes\n"}
{"id": "2502344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2502344", "title": "Criminal punishment in Edo-period Japan", "text": "Criminal punishment in Edo-period Japan\n\nDuring the Edo period, Japan used various punishments against criminals. These can be categorized as follows:\n\n\nSerious crimes such as murder and arson were punished by death. The shogunate maintained execution grounds for Edo at Kozukappara, Suzugamori, and Itabashi. Kozukappara, also known as Kotsukappara or Kozukahara, is currently located near the southwest exit of Tokyo's Minami-Senju Station. It is estimated that between 100,000 and 200,000 people were executed here. Only part of the site remains, located next to Emmeiji temple, partly buried under the rail tracks and under a more-recent burial ground. Archaeological and morphological research was done by Tokyo University on the skulls found buried here which confirmed the execution methods. Another notable one was located at Suzugamori in Shinagawa. Both sites are still sparsely commemorated \"in situ\" with memorial plaques and tombstones.\n\nThe shogunate executed criminals in various ways:\n\n\nThe death penalty often carried collateral punishments. One was parading the criminal around town prior to execution. A similar one was public display of the criminal prior to execution. A third was public display of the severed head.\n\nSamurai were often sentenced to commit seppuku in lieu of these forms of punishment. Seppuku is a term of suicide for the samurai.\n\nDepending on the severity of the crime, magistrates could sentence convicts to incarceration in various forms:\n\nExclusion from the location of the crime was a penalty for both commoners and samurai.\n\nFor crimes requiring moderate punishment, convicts could be sent to work at labor camps such as the one on Ishikawa-jima in Edo Bay. More serious acts could result in being sent to work in the gold mine on the island of Sado. In 1590, Hideyoshi had banned \"unfree labor\" or slavery; but forms of contract and indentured labor persisted alongside the period penal codes' forced labor. For example, the Edo period penal laws prescribed \"non-free labor\" for the immediate family of executed criminals in Article 17 of the \"Gotōke reijō\" (Tokugawa House Laws), but the practice never became common. The 1711 \"Gotōke reijō\" was compiled from over 600 statutes promulgated between 1597 and 1696.\n\nIt was also common for female convicts to be sentenced to serve terms working as slaves and prostitutes in walled Red Light Districts, most notably Yoshiwara.\n\nA penalty that targeted merchants especially was kesshō, the confiscation of a business.\n\nHandcuffing allowed the government to punish a criminal while he was under house arrest. Depending on the severity of the crime, the sentence might last 30, 50, or 100 days.\n\nFlagellation was a common penalty for crimes such as theft and fighting. Amputation of the nose or ears replaced flogging as penalty early in the Edo period. The 8th Shōgun of Edo, Tokugawa Yoshimune introduced judicial Flogging Penalty, or \"tataki\", in 1720. A convicted criminal could be sentenced to a maximum of 100 lashes. \"Samurai\" and priests were exempt from flogging, and the penalty was applied only to commoners. The convict was stripped of all outer clothing and struck about the buttocks and back. The flogging penalty was used until 1867, though it fell out of favor from 1747 to 1795 intermittently. Both men and women could be sentenced to a flogging, though during one segment of the mid-Edo period, women were imprisoned rather than flogged.\n\nIn 757 A.D., the Chinese-influenced Yoro Ritsuryo (養老律令) legal system was enacted and introduced Five Judicial Penalties (五刑). Two of the Five Judicial Penalties involved Flogging. Light Flogging provided for 10 to 50 lashes, while Heavy \nFlogging stipulated 60 to 100 strokes. However, a slave could be sentenced to up a maximum of 200 lashes. These flogging penalties only applied to male commoners. Convicts of the nobility, along with female commoners, might be sentenced to the imposition of handcuffs or a fine. When a convicted criminal was flogged, half the number of lashes were typically applied to the back, half to the buttocks. At times, if the convict's request to change the lash target was sanctioned then the lashes would be applied only to the back or to the buttocks. By the Age of Warring States, flogging had been largely replaced by decapitation.\n\nKozukappara execution grounds\n\n\n"}
{"id": "880723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880723", "title": "Cylon (Battlestar Galactica)", "text": "Cylon (Battlestar Galactica)\n\nThe Cylons are a cybernetic civilization at war with the Twelve Colonies of humanity in the \"Battlestar Galactica\" science fiction franchise, in the original 1978 and 1980 series, the 2004 reimagining, as well as the spin-off prequel series, \"Caprica\". In the 1978 series, Cylon is also the name of the reptilian race who created the robot Cylons.\n\nThe nature and origin of the Cylons differ greatly between the two \"Battlestar Galactica\" continuities. However, both series feature Cylon Raiders, Cylon Basestars and Cylon Centurions. The prequel series, \"Caprica\", focuses on the creation of the Cylons, which differs from all the previous \"Battlestar Galactica\" series.\n\nThe Cylons of the 1978/1980 series are not the mechanical foils seen throughout the series, but an advanced reptilian race who created the robots (called \"Cylons\" within the show) to serve them, maintain their vast empire and to man their military forces in the face of a sudden population drop that eventually led to the Cylons' extinction — seemingly overnight. This fact is briefly mentioned in the 1978 movie-length premiere of the series (near the end of episode 2 in syndication) when Apollo relates the Cylons' origin to Boxey. In the episode \"War of the Gods\", during Count Iblis's private discourse with Count Baltar, Baltar (further explaining the reptilian Cylons' ultimate, apocalyptic fate as \"having allowed themselves to be overcome — betrayed and, thus, completely killed off — by their own technology\") mentions that he recognizes Iblis's voice, referring to Patrick Macnee's voicing of the Imperious Leader in the opening episode/theatrical movie (Macnee also played Iblis), with Iblis countering that if that was true it must have been \"transcribed\" over a thousand yahren (years) ago and programmed into the mechanical body of the Imperious Leader.\n\nThe follow-up series \"Galactica 1980\" had a two-episode arc entitled \"The Night the Cylons Landed\" that featured a humanoid Cylon; though, unlike its successors in the post-millennial reimagining, it was not organic, but a complex mechanical construct.\n\nIn the original series, the Cylons, an aggressively expanding empire, declared war on Humanity because they had intervened on behalf of a race of beings called the Hasaris, who had been enslaved by the Cylons and who had sought the aid of the Colonials.\n\nThe Cylons of the 2003 miniseries and 2004 \"Battlestar Galactica\" series are fundamentally different from the Cylons of the original 1978/1980 series. In the new version, the Cylons were created by humans as cybernetic workers and soldiers. As in the original series, the Cylons destroy almost the entire human civilization, chasing a few ship-borne survivors into deep space. Unlike the original series, however, the reimagined series includes thirteen Cylon models that are nearly indistinguishable from human beings. Although these human-form Cylons are the focus of the series, alongside the humanoid models there are also Centurions similar to those in the original series. Much of the Cylons' technology is based heavily on bioengineering and/or synthetic biology rather than conventional robotics. Humans often derisively refer to Cylons as \"toasters\", due to the resemblance of the Cylon centurions from the first Human/Cylon war (the design of which is based on that of the centurions from the original series) to \"walking chrome toasters\", as described by Gaius Baltar in the miniseries. The humanoid models are referred to as \"skin-jobs\" (a term originally used in \"Blade Runner\" for the replicants) to differentiate the two variants.\n\nPrior to the massive attack on the Colonies, the Cylon civilization was considered to be a major threat, but one which was contained. The interstellar military technologies of the humans and the Cylons were very comparable in capabilities such as instantaneous hyperspace jump, guided missiles, ship-based fighters, and nuclear weapons. In the premiere episode of the 2003 series, Commander Adama denies visiting reporters access to the \"Galactica\" if they carry networked computers, and reminds these reporters of the Cylon origins as networked Artificial Intelligence beings. In all aspects of computing and robotics, the Cylon technologies are far superior to those of humankind. Adama points out that, as long as the Cylons are kept out of the networks, humankind's superior numbers and the size of their industrial base gives them the tactical and strategic advantage. That is lost when Gaius Baltar allows the humanoid Cylon \"Caprica Six\" access to the Colonial defense mainframe. Her modifications to the defense code propagate throughout the fleet, effectively disarming it, and the massive attacks begin, resulting in the near extinction of humankind.\n\nIn contrast to the reason for the original Cylons' genocidal mission, religion is the primary motivation of the Cylon race in the re-imagined series. They consider humans to be sinful and flawed creations who, therefore, do not deserve to survive. However, there is notable disagreement among the humanoid Cylon ranks. Cylon Model 1 (played by Dean Stockwell) was a model that evolved to abandon the religious convictions of the other models. His hyper-rational nature led him to regularly advocate for full-scale genocide of humanity, even after Models 6, 3, 8, and 2 reconsidered the total extermination objective. \n\nIn the reimagined series universe, the term Cylon stands for Cybernetic Lifeform Node.\n\n"}
{"id": "31537853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31537853", "title": "Death anxiety (psychology)", "text": "Death anxiety (psychology)\n\nDeath anxiety is anxiety caused by thoughts of death. One source defines death anxiety as a \"feeling of dread, apprehension or solicitude (anxiety) when one thinks of the process of dying, or ceasing to 'be'\". Also referred to as thanatophobia (fear of death), death anxiety is distinguished from necrophobia, which is a specific fear of dead or dying people and/or things (i.e., fear of others who are dead or dying, not of one's own death or dying).\n\nAdditionally, there is anxiety caused by death-recent thought-content, which might be classified within a clinical setting by a psychiatrist as morbid and/or abnormal, which for classification pre-necessitates a degree of anxiety which is persistent and interferes with everyday functioning. Lower ego integrity, more physical problems and more psychological problems are predictive of higher levels of death anxiety in elderly people perceiving themselves close to death.\n\nDeath anxiety can cause extreme timidness with a person's attitude towards discussing organ donation and anything to do with death.\n\nRobert Langs distinguishes three types of death anxiety:\n\nPredatory death anxiety arises from the fear of being harmed. It is the most basic and oldest form of death anxiety, with its origins in the first unicellular organisms’ set of adaptive resources. Unicellular organisms have receptors that have evolved to react to external dangers, along with self-protective, responsive mechanisms made to increase the likelihood of survival in the face of chemical and physical forms of attack or danger. In humans, predatory death anxiety is evoked by a variety of danger situations that put one at risk or threaten one's survival. These traumas may be physical, psychological, or both. Predatory death anxiety mobilizes an individual's adaptive resources and leads to a fight-or-flight response: active efforts to combat the danger or attempts to escape the threatening situation.\n\nPredation or predator death anxiety is a form that arises when an individual harms another, physically and/or mentally. This form of death anxiety is often accompanied by unconscious guilt. This guilt, in turn, motivates and encourages a variety of self-made decisions and actions by the perpetrator of harm to others.\n\nExistential death anxiety stems from the basic knowledge that human life must end. Existential death anxiety is known to be the most powerful form. It is said that language has created the basis for existential death anxiety through communicative and behavioral changes. Other factors include an awareness of the distinction between self and others, a full sense of personal identity, and the ability to anticipate the future.\nAwareness of human mortality arose some 150,000 years ago. In that extremely short span of evolutionary time, humans have fashioned a single basic mechanism through which they deal with the existential death anxieties this awareness has evoked—denial. Denial is effected through a wide range of mental mechanisms and physical actions, many of which go unrecognized. While denial can be adaptive in limited use, excessive use is more common and is emotionally costly. Denial is the root of such diverse actions as breaking rules, violating frames and boundaries, manic celebrations, directing violence against others, attempting to gain extraordinary wealth and power—and more. These pursuits are often activated by a death-related trauma, and while they may lead to constructive actions, more often than not, they lead to actions that are damaging to self and others.\n\nSigmund Freud hypothesized that people express a fear of death, called thanatophobia. He said he saw this as a disguise for a deeper source of concern. It was not actually death that people feared, because in Freud's view nobody believes in their own death. The unconscious does not deal with the passage of time or with negations, which does not calculate amount of time left in one's life. Furthermore, that which one does fear cannot be death itself, because one has never died. People who express death-related fears, actually are trying to deal with unresolved childhood conflicts that they cannot come to terms with or express emotion towards. The name Thanatophobia is made from the Greek figure of death known as Thanatos.\n\nDevelopmental psychologist Erik Erikson formulated the psychosocial theory that explained that people progress through a series of crises as they grow older. The theory also envelops the concept that once an individual reaches the latest stages of life, they reach the level he titled as \"ego integrity\". Ego Integrity is when one comes to terms with their life and accepts it. It was also suggested that when a person reaches the stage of late adulthood they become involved in a thorough overview of their life to date. When one can find meaning or purpose in their life, they have reached the integrity stage. In opposition, when an individual views their life as a series of failed and missed opportunities, then they do not reach the ego integrity stage. Elders that have attained this stage of ego integrity are believed to exhibit less of an influence from death anxiety.\n\nErnest Becker based this theory on existential views which turned death anxiety theories towards a new dimension. It said that death anxiety is not only real, but also it is people's most profound source of concern. He explained the anxiety as so intense that it can generate fears and phobias of everyday life—Fears of being alone or in a confined space. Based on the theory, many of people's daily behavior consist of attempts to deny death and to keep their anxiety under strict regulation.\n\nAs an individual develops mortality salience, i.e. becomes more aware of the inevitability of death, they will instinctively try to suppress it out of fear. The method of suppression usually leads to mainstreaming towards cultural beliefs, leaning for external support rather than treading alone. This behavior may range from simply thinking about death to severe phobias and desperate actions.\n\nMohammad Samir Hossain postulated the Death and adjustment hypotheses. With the declaration of the hypotheses, two things were postulated. The first part of the hypotheses theorizes that death should not be considered the end of existence. The next segment states the belief that the immortal pattern of human existence can only be adopted in a morally rich life with the attitude towards morality and materialism balanced mutually.\n\nMartin Heidegger, the German philosopher, on the one hand showed death as something conclusively determined, in the sense that it is inevitable for every human being, while on the other hand, it unmasks its indeterminate nature via the truth that one never knows when or how death is going to come. Heidegger does not engage in speculation about whether being after death is possible. He argues that all human existence is embedded in time: past, present, future, and when considering the future, we encounter the notion of death. This then creates angst. Angst can create a clear understanding in one that death is a possible mode of existence, which Heidegger described as “clearing”. Thus, angst can lead to a freedom about existence, but only if we can stop denying our mortality (as expressed in Heidegger's terminology as “stop denying being-for-death”).\n\nPaul T. P. Wong's work on the meaning management theory indicates that human reactions to death are complex, multifaceted and dynamic. His “Death Attitude Profile” identifies three types of death acceptances as Neutral, Approach, and Escape acceptances. Apart from acceptances, his work also represents different aspects of the meaning of death fear that are rooted in the bases of death anxiety. The ten meanings he proposes are finality, uncertainty, annihilation, ultimate loss, life flow disruption, leaving the loved ones, pain and loneliness, prematurity and violence of death, failure of life work completion, judgment and retribution centered.\n\nOther theories on death anxiety were introduced in the late part of the twentieth century. The existential approach, with theorists such as Rollo May and Viktor Frankl, views an individual's personality as being governed by the continuous choices and decisions in relation to the realities of life and death. Another approach is the \"regret theory\" which was introduced by Adrian Tomer and Grafton Eliason. The main focus of the theory is to target the way people evaluate the quality and/or worth of their lives. The possibility of death usually makes people more anxious if they feel that they have not and cannot accomplish any positive task in the life that they are living. Research has tried to unveil the factors that might influence the amount of anxiety people experience in life.\n\nHumans develop meanings and associate them with objects and events in their environment, provoking certain emotions within an individual. People tend to develop personal meanings of death which could accordingly be negative or positive for the individual. If they are positive, then the consequences of those meanings can be comforting (for example, ideas of a rippling effect left on those still alive). If negative they can cause emotional turmoil. Depending on the certain meaning one has associated with death, the consequences will vary accordingly whether they are negative or positive meanings.\n\nThe thought of death causes a different degree of anxiety for different individuals, depending on many factors.\n\nA 2012 study involving Christian and Muslim college students from the US, Turkey, and Malaysia found that their religiosity was positively correlated with an increased fear of death.\n\nOther studies have found a strong sense of religion in a person's life can be related to a lower sense of anxiety towards death. Although there has been no association discovered between religiosity and death anxiety, it has also been shown that death anxiety tends to be lower in individuals who regularly attend religious meetings or gatherings. On a recent study, one hundred and sixty-five church participants have been asked to fill out the \"Intrinsic Religious Motivation Scale, the Revised Death Anxiety Scale\" and the results were analyzed using factor analyses, Pearson correlation, and linear and quadratic regression. All found an inverse relationship between intrinsic religious motivation and death anxiety. In short, the more religious you are, the less anxious you are about death because you may associate death with another beginning that is promised through many religions. The study also found that gender did not have an effect on religiosity and total death anxiety.\n\nThe earliest documentation of the fear of death has been found in children as young as age 5. Psychological measures and reaction times were used to measure fear of death in young children. Recent studies that assess fear of death in children use questionnaire rating scales. There are many tests to study this including The Death Anxiety Scale for Children (DASC) developed by Schell and Seefeldt. However the most common version of this test is the revised Fear Survey Schedule for Children (FSSC-R). The FSSC-R describes specific fearful stimuli and children are asked to rate the degree to which the scenario/item makes them anxious or fearful. The most recent version of the FSSC-R presents the scenarios in a pictorial form to children as young as 4. It is called the Koala Fear Questionnaire (KFQ). The fear studies show that children's fears can be grouped into five categories. One of these categories is death and danger. This response was found amongst children age 4 to 6 on the KFQ, and from age 7 to 10. Death is the most commonly feared item and remains the most commonly feared item throughout adolescence.\n\nA study of 90 children, aged 4–8, done by Virginia Slaughter and Maya Griffiths showed that a more mature understanding of the biological concept of death was correlated to a decreased fear of death. This may suggest that it is helpful to teach children about death (in a biological sense), in order to alleviate the fear.\n\nThere has been much literature that supports the existence of a correlation between one's state of coping skills, mental health, emotions and cognitive reactions to stressful events, and one's ability to regulate affect concerning one's death anxiety. A series of tests determined that significantly high levels of death anxiety tend to occur in close relationships with an intimate partner (more so amongst females than males).\n\nThe connection between death anxiety and one's sex appears to be strong. Studies show that females tend to have more death anxiety than males. Thorson and Powell (1984) did a study to investigate this connection, and they sampled men and women from 16 years of age to over 60. The Death Anxiety Scale showed higher mean scores for women than for men. Moreover, researchers believe that age and culture could be major influences in why women score higher on death anxiety scales than men.\n\nThrough the evolutionary period, a basic method was created to deal with death anxiety and also as a means of dealing with loss. Denial is used when memories or feelings are too painful to accept and are often rejected. By maintaining that the event never happened, rather than accepting it, allows an individual more time to work through the inevitable pain. When a loved one dies in a family, denial is often implemented as a means to come to grips with the reality that the person is gone. Closer families often deal with death better than when coping individually. As society and families drift apart so does the time spent bereaving those who have died, which in turn leads to negative emotion and negativity towards death. Women, who are the child bearers and are often the ones who look after children hold greater concerns about death due to their caring role within the family. It is this common role of women that leads to greater death anxiety as it emphasize the ‘importance to live’ for her offspring. Although it is common knowledge that all living creatures die, many people do not accept their own mortality, preferring not to accept that death is inevitable, and that they will one day die.\n\nIt is during the years of young adulthood (20 to 40 years of age) that death anxiety most often begins to become prevalent. However, during the next phase of life, the middle age adult years (40–64 years of age), death anxiety peaks at its highest levels when in comparison to all other age ranges throughout the lifespan. Surprisingly, levels of death anxiety then slump off in the old age years of adulthood (65 years of age and older). This is in contrast with most people's expectations, especially regarding all of the negative connotations younger adults have about the elderly and the aging process (Kurlychek & Trenner, 1982).\n\nThere are many ways to measure death anxiety and fear. Katenbaum and Aeinsberg (1972) devised three propositions for this measurement. From this start, the ideologies about death anxiety have been able to be recorded and their attributes listed. Methods such as imagery tasks to simple questionnaires and apperception tests such as the Stroop test enable psychologists to adequately determine if a person is under stress due to death anxiety or suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.\nThe Lester attitude death scale was developed in 1966 but not published until 1991 until its validity was proven. By measuring the general attitude towards death and also the inconsistencies with death attitudes, participants are scaled to their favorable value towards death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093628", "title": "Deconstructing Harry", "text": "Deconstructing Harry\n\nDeconstructing Harry is a 1997 comedy film written and directed by Woody Allen. This film tells the story of a successful writer named Harry Block, played by Allen, who draws inspiration from people he knows in real life, and from events that happened to him, sometimes causing these people to become alienated from him as a result.\n\nThe central plot features Block driving to a university from which he was once thrown out, in order to receive an honorary degree. Three passengers accompany him on the journey: a prostitute, a friend, and his son, whom he has kidnapped from his ex-wife. However, there are many flashbacks, segments taken from Block's writing, and interactions with his own fictional characters. \"Deconstructing Harry\" received moderately positive reviews from critics.\n\nOne night, Lucy (Judy Davis) gets a taxi to the home of author Harry Block (Woody Allen). She has just read Harry's latest novel. In the novel, the character Leslie (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) is having an affair with her sister's husband Ken (Richard Benjamin). Lucy is angry because the novel is patently based on her and Harry's own affair; as a result, everyone knows about it. Lucy pulls a gun out of her purse, saying she will kill herself. She then turns the gun on Harry and begins firing. She chases him out onto the roof. Harry insists that he has already been punished: his latest girlfriend Fay (Elisabeth Shue) has left him for his best friend Larry (Billy Crystal). To distract Lucy, Harry tells her a story he is currently writing: a semi-autobiographical story of a sex-obsessed young man named Harvey (Tobey Maguire) who is mistakenly claimed by Death.\n\nIn therapy, Harry realizes he has not changed since he was a sex-obsessed youth. Harry discusses the honoring ceremony at his old university, taking place the next day; he is particularly unhappy that he has nobody with whom to share the occasion. After the session, Harry asks his ex-wife Joan (Kirstie Alley) if he can take their son Hilliard (Eric Lloyd) to the ceremony. She refuses, stating that Harry is a bad influence on Hilliard. She is also furious at Harry for the novel he wrote. In it, the character Epstein (Stanley Tucci) marries Helen (Demi Moore), but the marriage begins to crumble after the birth of their son.\n\nHarry runs into an acquaintance, Richard (Bob Balaban), who is worried about his health. After accompanying Richard to the hospital, Harry asks him to come to the university ceremony. Richard appears uninterested. Harry then goes to meet his ex-girlfriend Fay, who reveals that she is now engaged. Harry begs Fay to get back together with him. He asks Fay to accompany him to his ceremony, but it clashes with Fay's wedding, scheduled the following day.\n\nThat night, Harry sleeps with a prostitute, Cookie (Hazelle Goodman). Harry then asks Cookie to accompany him to his ceremony.\n\nIn the morning, Richard unexpectedly arrives to join Harry and Cookie on the journey. On a whim, Harry decides to \"kidnap\" his son Hilliard. Along the way, they stop at a carnival, then at Harry's half-sister Doris's (Caroline Aaron). Doris, a devoted Jew, is upset by Harry's portrayals of Judaism in his stories, as is her husband (Eric Bogosian). During the journey, Harry also encounters his fictional creations Ken and Helen, who force him to confront some painful truths about his life. Just before arriving at the university, Richard dies peacefully in the car.\n\nDistressed, Harry literally slides out of focus, becoming blurred like one of his own fictional characters. Cookie helps him restore focus. The university's staffers gush over Harry, asking what he plans to write next. He describes a story about a man (based on himself) who journeys down to Hell to reclaim his true love (based on Fay) from the Devil (based on Larry - both being played by Billy Crystal). Harry and the Devil engage in a verbal duel as to who is truly the more evil of the two. Harry gets as far as arguing that he is a kidnapper before the story is interrupted by the arrival of the police. Harry is arrested for kidnapping Hilliard, for possessing a gun (it was Lucy's), and for having drugs in the car (belonging to Cookie).\n\nLarry and Fay come from their wedding to bail Harry out of jail. Harry reluctantly gives them his blessings. Back at his apartment, a miserable Harry fantasizes that the university's ceremony is taking place. Harry realizes that he can only function in art, not in life. The film ends with Harry returning to his writing.\n\n\"Deconstructing Harry\" garnered 71% approval on Rotten Tomatoes and a 61 out of 100 on Metacritic.\n\nWoody Allen was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen for \"Deconstructing Harry\". The film was also nominated for a Golden Satellite Award for Best Motion Picture — Comedy or Musical.\n\nThe film is a general reworking of his earlier 1980 film \"Stardust Memories\", which also had an artist go to a ceremony in his honor, while reminiscing over past relationships and trying to fix and stabilize current ones.\n\nAllen is an admirer of several European directors whose primary body of work was completed sometimes decades before his first script, and his films in particular often draw upon the works of Ingmar Bergman and Federico Fellini. The rough outline of the plot of \"Deconstructing Harry\", that of an academic on a long drive to receive an honorary award from his old university while reflecting upon his life's experiences, essentially mirrors that of Bergman's \"Wild Strawberries\". Also, the film is similar to Fellini's \"8½\", in that it is about an artist struggling with his current relationships and remembering his old ones, interspersed with dream sequences, as well as his work being based on events from his life.\n\nIt is acknowledged by some critics that Allen based the name of Harry Block on Antonius Block (Max von Sydow), the protagonist from Bergman's \"The Seventh Seal\". Some critics, including Roger Ebert, have suggested that the character of Harry Block is based on real-life author Philip Roth and not on Allen himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "30615625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30615625", "title": "Edward Morrell", "text": "Edward Morrell\n\nEdward H. \"Ed\" Morrell (October 22, 1868 – November 10, 1946) was an accomplice to the Evans and Sontag gang that robbed the Southern Pacific Railroad in California's San Joaquin Valley in the 1890s. According to his memoir, \"The 25th Man\", the robberies were after revenge for the large railroad corporation's mistreatment of local ranchers of the San Joaquin Valley. Morrell was sentenced to life imprisonment in Folsom State Prison in 1894. He was eventually transferred to San Quentin (1899 at the latest), and pardoned in 1908. Five of his years were spent in solitary confinement; he was known as the Dungeon Man of San Quentin. Author Jack London championed his pardon; and Morrell became a frequent guest at London's Beauty Ranch in Glen Ellen, California. London used Morrell as a character in his 1915 novel \"The Star Rover\".\n\nMorrell had been subjected to severe physical abuse in prison. After his release, he lectured widely on his experiences and advocated prison reform. He lectured with former San Quentin prisoner and author, Donald Lowrie. Morrell's lectures included addresses to the California and Pennsylvania legislatures. He advocated the abolition of corporal punishment. In 1914, he wrote a one-act play, \"The Incorrigible\", based on his experiences (and one of his nicknames). In 1924, he published his memoirs, \"The 25th Man: The Strange Story of Ed. Morrell, the Hero of Jack London's Star Rover\".\n\nMorrell was born in Thomaston, Pennsylvania on October 22, 1868. He came to California in 1891. \"In his later years, he was a colorful habitue of Gower Gulch and a frequenter of Hollywood and Vine, the crony and pet of Hollywood film people.\" He died, age 78, in Los Angeles on November 10, 1946.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11038534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11038534", "title": "End-of-life care", "text": "End-of-life care\n\nEnd-of-life care (or EoLC) refers to health care, not only of a person in the final hours or days of their lives, but more broadly care of all those with a terminal condition that has become advanced, progressive, and incurable.\n\nEnd-of-life care requires a range of decisions, including questions of palliative care, patients' right to self-determination (of treatment, life), medical experimentation, the ethics and efficacy of extraordinary or hazardous medical interventions, and the ethics and efficacy even of continued routine medical interventions. In addition, end-of-life often touches upon rationing and the allocation of resources in hospitals and national medical systems. Such decisions are informed both by technical, medical considerations, economic factors as well as bioethics. In addition, end-of-life treatments are subject to considerations of patient autonomy. \"Ultimately, it is still up to patients and their families to determine when to pursue aggressive treatment or withdraw life support.\"\n\nIn most advanced countries, medical spending on those in the last twelve months of life makes up roughly 10% of total aggregate medical spending, and spending on those in the last three years of life can account for up to 25%. Whether or not a physician would be surprised if a person was dead within a set period of time was somewhat accurate at predicting end of life.\n\nIn 2012, Statistics Canada's \"General Social Survey on Caregiving and care receiving\" found that 13% of Canadians (3.7 million) aged 15 and older reported that at some point in their lives they had provided end-of-life or palliative care to a family member or friend. For those in their 50s and 60s, the percentage was higher, with about 20% reporting having provided palliative care to a family member or friend. Women were also more likely to have provided palliative care over their lifetimes, with 16% of women reporting having done so, compared with 10% of men. These caregivers helped terminally ill family members or friends with personal or medical care, food preparation, managing finances or providing transportation to and from medical appointments.\n\nEnd of life care has been identified by the UK Department of Health as an area where quality of care has previously been \"very variable,\" and which has not had a high profile in the NHS and social care. To address this, a national end of life care programme was established in 2004 to identify and propagate best practice, and a national strategy document published in 2008. The Scottish Government has also published a national strategy.\n\nIn 2006 just over half a million people died in England, about 99% of them adults over the age of 18, and almost two-thirds adults over the age of 75. About three-quarters of deaths could be considered \"predictable\" and followed a period of chronic illness – for example heart disease, cancer, stroke, or dementia. In all, 58% of deaths occurred in an NHS hospital, 18% at home, 17% in residential care homes (most commonly people over the age of 85), and about 4% in hospices. However, a majority of people would prefer to die at home or in a hospice, and according to one survey less than 5% would rather die in hospital. A key aim of the strategy therefore is to reduce the needs for dying patients to have to go to hospital and/or to have to stay there; and to improve provision for support and palliative care in the community to make this possible. One study estimated that 40% of the patients who had died in hospital had not had medical needs that required them to be there. \n\nIn 2015 and 2010, the UK ranked highest globally in a study of end-of-life care. The 2015 study said \"Its ranking is due to comprehensive national policies, the extensive integration of palliative care into the National Health Service, a strong hospice movement, and deep community engagement on the issue.\" The studies were carried out by the Economist Intelligence Unit and commissioned by the Lien Foundation, a Singaporean philanthropic organisation.\n\nSpending on those in the last twelve months accounts for 8.5% of total aggregate medical spending in the United States.\n\nWhen considering only those aged 65 and older, estimates show that about 27% of Medicare's annual $327 billion budget ($88 billion) in 2006 goes to care for patients in their final year of life. For the over 65s, between 1992-1996, spending on those in their last year of life represented 22% of all medical spending, 18% of all non-Medicare spending, and 25 percent of all Medicaid spending for the poor. These percentages appears to be falling over time, as in 2008, 16.8% of all medical spending on the over 65s went on those in their last year of life.\n\nMany times, family members are uncertain what they can do when a person is dying. Many gentle, familiar daily tasks, such as combing hair, putting lotion on delicate skin, and holding hands, are comforting and provide a meaningful method of communicating love to a dying person.\n\nFamily members may be suffering emotionally due to the impending death. Their own fear of death may affect their behavior. They may feel guilty about past events in their relationship with the dying person or feel that they have been neglectful. These common emotions can result in tension, fights between family members over decisions, worsened care, and sometimes (in what medical professionals call the \"Daughter from California syndrome\") a long-absent family member arrives while a patient is dying to demand inappropriately aggressive care.\n\nFamily members may also be coping with unrelated problems, such as physical or mental illness, emotional and relationship issues, or legal difficulties. These problems can limit their ability to be involved, civil, helpful, or present.\n\nPastoral/spiritual care is of particular significance in end of life care. 'In palliative care, responsibility for spiritual care is shared by the whole team, with leadership given by specialist practitioners such as pastoral care workers. The palliative care approach to spiritual care may, however, be transferred to other contexts and to individual practice.'\n\nFragmented, dysfunctional, or grieving families are often unable to make timely decisions that respect the patient's wishes and values. This can result in over-treatment, under-treatment, and other problems. For example, family members may differ over whether life extension or life quality is the main goal of treatment.\n\nFamily members may also be unable to grasp the inevitability of death and the risks and effects of medical and non-medical interventions. They may demand common treatments, such as antibiotics for pneumonia, or drugs to reduce high blood pressure without wondering whether that person might prefer dying quickly of pneumonia or a heart attack to a long-drawn-out decline in a skilled care facility. Some treatments, such as pureed foods for a person who has trouble swallowing or IV fluids for a person who is actively dying, seem harmless, but can significantly prolong the process of dying.\n\nThe U.S. Government National Cancer Institute advises that the presence of some of the following signs may indicate that death is approaching:\n\n\nThe following are some of the most common potential problems that can arise in the last days and hours of a patient's life:\n\n\nTypical care plans, such as those based on the Liverpool Care Pathway for dying patients, pre-authorise staff to address such diseases symptoms as soon as they are needed, without needing to take time to seek further authorisation. Subcutaneous injections are one preferred means of delivery when it has become difficult for patients to swallow or to take pills orally; and if repeated medication is needed, a syringe driver (called an infusion pump in the US) is often likely to be used, to deliver a steady low dose of medication.\n\nAnother means of medication delivery, available for use when the oral route is compromised, is a specialized catheter designed to provide comfortable and discreet administration of ongoing medications via the rectal route. The catheter was developed to make rectal access more practical and provide a way to deliver and retain liquid formulations in the distal rectum so that health practitioners can leverage the established benefits of rectal administration. Its small flexible silicone shaft allows the device to be placed safely and remain comfortably in the rectum for repeated administration of medications or liquids. The catheter has a small lumen, allowing for small flush volumes to get medication to the rectum. Small volumes of medications (under 15ml) improve comfort by not stimulating the defecation response of the rectum, and can increase the overall absorption of a given dose by decreasing pooling of medication and migration of medication into more proximal areas of the rectum where absorption can be less effective.\n\nOther diseases symptoms that may occur, and may be mitigable to some extent, include cough, fatigue, fever, and in some cases bleeding.\n\nA study was conducted by Jessica Schmit from the University of Florida in 2016 about the level of comfort medical residents have with certain end-of-life care. Through this study it was found that residents received an inadequate amount of formal education on comfort-care and end-of-life care. In Schmit's study it was found that 61.9% of residents reported that their end of life conversations were \"mostly unsupervised\" or \"never supervised\", giving them very little guidance about how to do better in the future. Research is also being undertaken with regard to the role of Speech-Language Pathologists (SLPs) working in palliative and end-of-life care. Speech-Language Pathologists have been recognised as having an important role among adult and paediatric populations - though only recently has research begun to formalise this process. Nurses also play an extremely important role in comfort care at the end of life. Nurses are able to explain in practical terms what is happening to the patient after the doctor has left. Nurses also work to advocate for the patients, as they spend a lot of time with them and typically know a great deal more about the patient's wishes, symptoms, and previous medical history. Nurses, doctors, and hospice workers are critical in helping both the patient and the family move through the death process, as well as the grief that follows after.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41254383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41254383", "title": "Epimorphosis", "text": "Epimorphosis\n\nEpimorphosis is defined as the regeneration of a specific part of an organism in a way that involves extensive cell proliferation, as well as blastema formation. Epimorphosis can be considered a simple model for development, though it only occurs in tissues surrounding the site of injury rather than occurring system-wide.\n\nThomas Hunt Morgan, an evolutionary biologist who also worked with embryology, argued that limb and tissue reformation bore many similarities to embryonic development. Building off of the work of German embryologist Wilhelm Roux, who suggested regeneration was two cooperative but distinct pathways instead of one, Morgan named the two parts of the regenerative process epimorphosis and morphallaxis. Specifically, Morgan wanted epimorphosis to specify the process of entirely new tissues being regrown from an amputation or similar injury, with morphallaxis being coined to describe regeneration that did not use cell proliferation, such as in hydra\n\nIn vertebrates, epimorphosis relies on blastema formation to proliferate cells into the new tissue. Through studies involving zebrafish fins, the toetips of mice, and limb regeneration in axolotls, researchers at the Polish Academy of Sciences found evidence for epimorphosis occurring in a variety of vertebrates, including instances of mammal epimorphosis.\n\nEpidermal cells at the wound margins migrate to cover the wound and will become the wound epidermis. No scar tissue forms, as it would in mammals.\n\nAn apical ectodermal cap (AEC) forms on the tip of the stump. This is similar to the embryonic apical ectodermal ridge, which forms during normal limb development. The AEC causes the progress zone to re-establish; this means the cells under the AEC dedifferentiate and become mesenchymal. The AEC releases fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) (including FGF-4 and -8) that drive the development of the new limb, essentially resetting the limb back to its embryonic development stage.\n\nHowever, even though some of the limb cells are able to dedifferentiate, they are not able to fully dedifferentiate to the level of multipotent progenitor cells. During regeneration, only cartilage cells can form new cartilage tissue, only muscle cells can form new muscle tissue, and so on. The dedifferentiated cells still retain their original specification.\n\nThe American cockroach is capable of regenerating limbs that have been damaged or destroyed, such as legs and antennae, as well parts of its compound eye. It does this with lectin—a protein made for binding proteins—named regenectin, which shares a family with other lipopolysaccharide (LPS) binding proteins. Regenectin carries both a regenerative and a system defense function, and it is produced by the cockroach's paracrine system to work with muscle reformation.\n\n\"C. teleta\" is a segmented worm found in North America that is capable of regenerating posterior segments after amputation. This regeneration uses the interaction of several sets of \"Hox\" genes, as well as blastema formation. All of the \"Hox\" genes concerned in epimorphosis are present in the abdominal area of the worm, but not in the anterior portion. However, the genes do not, themselves, direct the anterior-posterior patterning of the worm's thorax.\n\n\"P. vitta\" is a flatworm of genus \"Planaria\" that, when needed, can draw upon both morphallaxis and epimorphosis to regrow itself; in \"P. vitta,\" epimorphosis precedes morphallaxis and lasts about ten days. The epidermis contracts immediately after the worm is cut at the head, which activates totipotent regenerative cells, and rhabdites gather on the epidermis. Near the time the eye-spots on the worm begin to take form, epimorphosis begins to shift over to morphallaxis, which then finishes regrowth into a complete individual.\n"}
{"id": "47143963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47143963", "title": "Fedor Mikhailovich Dubiansky", "text": "Fedor Mikhailovich Dubiansky\n\nFedor Mikhailovich Dubiansky (; 1760 – 4 August 1796) was a Russian amateur musician and the author of the romance \"A rock-dove moans\" () after the text of Ivan Ivanovich Dmitriev. He drowned while crossing the Neva in 1796, aged 36.\n"}
{"id": "9085417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9085417", "title": "Hello Again (1987 film)", "text": "Hello Again (1987 film)\n\nHello Again is a 1987 American romantic fantasy-comedy film directed and produced by Frank Perry, written by Susan Isaacs and starring Shelley Long, Judith Ivey, Gabriel Byrne, Corbin Bernsen, Sela Ward, Austin Pendleton, Carrie Nye, Robert Lewis, Madeleine Potter, Thor Fields and Illeana Douglas. Hello Again opened at #2 in the Box Office earning $5,712,892 at its opening weekend and made $20,419,446 in its entire run.\n\nLong Island housewife Lucy Chadman in the midst of a tarot card reading by her occult sister, Zelda. Just as Zelda exclaims something is going to happen, Lucy begins to choke to death on a South Korean Chicken Ball. The film shows the difficulty of Lucy's loved ones, including Zelda, had in coping with her death. But the grief turns to excitement when Zelda receives a book of spells called \"The Wisdom of Catagonia\". Within the book Zelda finds a spell that requires perfect astronomical timing—the moon, the earth, and the dog star must form a perfect isosceles triangle. Zelda performs the spell and Lucy appears.\n\nLucy begins to reacquaint herself with living and with her family who are shocked to see her alive again, one year later, and soon discovers that she cannot simply pick her life back up where she left off. She returns to find her widower husband has sold their home and married her greedy and double-crossing friend from college. Her son, meanwhile, has opened his own successful restaurant and married, instead of going to Columbia.\n\nWhen she returns to the hospital at which she died, the emergency room doctor who tried to revive her begins to fall for her. Zelda confides in the doctor that if Lucy does not find love by the next full moon, she will have to go back to the spirit world. He does not believe Zelda. Eventually the press finds out that Lucy came back from the dead, and plague her, her family, and the hospital the ER doctor works at. Her college friend becomes jealous of her media attention and the attention Lucy is getting from Mr. Chadman. She holds a news conference of her own and tells the media Lucy made the whole thing up—claiming that Lucy used tetrodotoxin as a means to fake her own death. Lucy does not defend herself, as she sees this as an opportunity to rid herself and her friends of the media. Instead, the doctor gets fired, her sister's occult store is vandalized and she is hated by almost everyone, except her family. She decides to end the debacle once and for all by tricking her college friend into admitting she lied about Lucy faking her death in front of the media at a party the hospital is having. Lucy, the doctor, and her family walk away happily. As the credits roll we see that both Lucy and Zelda get married and have children with their new loves (Lucy has twins). Lucy's son also becomes a father.\n\n\n\"Hello Again\" received negative reviews, as the film holds an 11% rating on Rotten Tomatoes from 18 critics.\n\n"}
{"id": "32566716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32566716", "title": "Helmuth Friedrichs", "text": "Helmuth Friedrichs\n\nHelmuth Friedrichs (born 22 September 1899 in Otterndorf – died probably February 1945) was a German Nazi Party official. He was an important figure in the Office of the Deputy Führer and its successor the Nazi Party Chancellery.\n\nAfter secondary school Friedrichs enlisted in the German Imperial Army in 1916, seeing service in the First World War. Serving on both fronts, he was captured by the British in October 1918 and held as a prisoner of war until the end of 1919. Serving with the Freikorps and the army, he joined with Karl Dincklage, later a Sturmabteilung (SA) leader, in campaigning for the German National People's Party. He also worked as a miner in Westphalia and studied at the Mining Academy in Clausthal-Zellerfeld without graduating. He was nicknamed \"Long Friedrichs\" on account of his height.\n\nHe joined the Nazi Party in 1929 the SA in turn of the year 1929/1930 and the Schutzstaffel in 1936. He reached the rank of Gruppenführer in the SS in 1944. He also served as a member of the Reichstag for Hessen-Nassau during the Third Reich.\n\nFreidrichs was serving as head of organisation in Gau Essen in March 1934 when Rudolf Hess appointed him to his staff as head of the \"party division\". In this role he served as liaison between Hess and Martin Bormann, meeting the former weekly to obtain his general policy ideas before passing these on to Bormann who then developed specific initiative based upon Hess's initial ideas. Heinrich Walkenhorst served as his deputy, with both men remaining in office until 1945.\n\nAlong with Gerhard Klopfer Friedrichs was the highest-ranking bureaucrat behind Bormann in the Chancellery. As a result, he wielded a significant level of influence as the office controlled appointments to various party positions, including those of Gauleiter and Reich minister, and Bormann often delegated appointments to his two deputies. Along with Gottlob Berger he was also appointed as one of the two Chiefs of Staff of the Volkssturm upon the foundation of this civil defence force in 1944.\n\nFriedrichs was reported missing from February 1945; on 13 August 1951 he was declared legally dead by the Munich district court with his date of death officially set as 31 December 1945.\n"}
{"id": "352960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352960", "title": "Hysterectomy", "text": "Hysterectomy\n\nHysterectomy is the surgical removal of the uterus. It may also involve removal of the cervix, ovaries, fallopian tubes and other surrounding structures.\n\nUsually performed by a gynecologist, hysterectomy may be total (removing the body, fundus, and cervix of the uterus; often called \"complete\") or partial (removal of the uterine body while leaving the cervix intact; also called \"supracervical\"). It is the most commonly performed gynecological surgical procedure. In 2003, over 600,000 hysterectomies were performed in the United States alone, of which over 90% were performed for benign conditions. Such rates being highest in the industrialized world has led to the major controversy that hysterectomies are being largely performed for unwarranted and unnecessary reasons.\n\nRemoval of the uterus renders the patient unable to bear children (as does removal of ovaries and fallopian tubes) and has surgical risks as well as long-term effects, so the surgery is normally recommended when other treatment options are not available or have failed. It is expected that the frequency of hysterectomies for non-malignant indications will fall as there are good alternatives in many cases.\n\nOophorectomy (removal of ovaries) is frequently done together with hysterectomy to decrease the risk of ovarian cancer. However, recent studies have shown that prophylactic oophorectomy without an urgent medical indication decreases a woman’s long-term survival rates substantially and has other serious adverse effects. This effect is not limited to pre-menopausal women; even women who have already entered menopause were shown to have experienced a decrease in long-term survivability post-oophorectomy.\n\nHysterectomy is a major surgical procedure that has risks and benefits, and affects a woman's hormonal balance and overall health for the rest of her life. Because of this, hysterectomy is normally recommended as a last resort to remedy certain intractable uterine/reproductive system conditions. Such conditions include, but are not limited to:\n\nWomen may also express a desire to undergo an elective hysterectomy for reasons other than the resolution of reproductive system conditions or illnesses. Some of the conditions under which a person may request to have a hysterectomy (or have one requested for her if the woman is incapable of making the request) for non-illness reasons include may be as prophylaxis against certain reproductive system cancers, especially if there is a strong family history of reproductive system cancers (especially breast cancer in conjunction with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation), or as part of recovery from such cancers. Some with severe developmental disabilities have had hysterectomies though this treatment is controversial at best. In the United States, specific cases of sterilization due to developmental disabilities have been found by state-level Supreme Courts to violate the patient's constitutional and common law rights.\n\nMany types of reproductive system cancers are treated surgically. These include uterine, cervical, ovarian, or endometrium tumors, as well as uterine fibroids that do not respond to more conservative treatment options.\nIn 1995, the short-term mortality (within 40 days of surgery) was reported at 0.38 cases per 1000 when performed for benign causes. Risks for surgical complications were presence of fibroids, younger age (vascular pelvis with higher bleeding risk and larger uterus), dysfunctional uterine bleeding and parity.\n\nThe mortality rate is several times higher when performed in patients who are pregnant, have cancer or other complications.\n\nLong-term effect on all case mortality is relatively small. Women under the age of 45 years have a significantly increased long-term mortality that is believed to be caused by the hormonal side effects of hysterectomy and prophylactic oophorectomy.\n\nApproximately 35% of women after hysterectomy undergo another related surgery within 2 years.\n\nUreteral injury is not uncommon and occurs in 0.2 per 1,000 cases of vaginal hysterectomy and 1.3 per 1,000 cases of abdominal hysterectomy. The injury usually occurs in the distal ureter close to the infundibulopelvic ligament or as a ureter crosses below the uterine artery, often from blind clamping and ligature placement to control hemorrhage.\n\nHospital stay is 3 to 5 days or more for the abdominal procedure and between 1 and 2 days (but possibly longer) for vaginal or laparoscopically assisted vaginal procedures.\n\nRemoval of one or both ovaries is performed in a substantial number of hysterectomies that were intended to be ovary sparing.\n\nThe average onset age of menopause after hysterectomy with ovarian conservation is 3.7 years earlier than average. This has been suggested to be due to the disruption of blood supply to the ovaries after a hysterectomy or due to missing endocrine feedback of the uterus. The function of the remaining ovaries is significantly affected in about 40% of women, some of them even require hormone replacement treatment. Surprisingly, a similar and only slightly weaker effect has been observed for endometrial ablation which is often considered as an alternative to hysterectomy.\n\nA substantial number of women develop benign ovarian cysts after a hysterectomy.\n\nAfter hysterectomy for benign indications the majority of women report improvement in sexual life and pelvic pain. A smaller share of women report worsening of sexual life and other problems. The picture is significantly different for hysterectomy performed for malignant reasons; the procedure is often more radical with substantial side effects. A proportion of patients who undergo a hysterectomy for chronic pelvic pain continue to suffer from pelvic pain after a hysterectomy and develop dyspareunia (painful sexual intercourse).\n\nEstrogen levels fall sharply when the ovaries are removed, removing the protective effects of estrogen on the cardiovascular and skeletal systems. This condition is often referred to as \"surgical menopause\", although it is substantially different from a naturally occurring menopausal state; the former is a sudden hormonal shock to the body that causes rapid onset of menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes, while the latter is a gradually occurring decrease of hormonal levels over a period of years with uterus intact and ovaries able to produce hormones even after the cessation of menstrual periods.\n\nOne study showed that risk of subsequent cardiovascular disease is substantially increased for women who had hysterectomy at age 50 or younger. No association was found for women undergoing the procedure after age 50. The risk is higher when ovaries are removed but still noticeable even when ovaries are preserved.\n\nSeveral other studies have found that osteoporosis (decrease in bone density) and increased risk of bone fractures are associated with hysterectomies. This has been attributed to the modulatory effect of estrogen on calcium metabolism and the drop in serum estrogen levels after menopause can cause excessive loss of calcium leading to bone wasting.\n\nHysterectomies have also been linked with higher rates of heart disease and weakened bones. Those who have undergone a hysterectomy with both ovaries removed typically have reduced testosterone levels as compared to those left intact. Reduced levels of testosterone in women are predictive of height loss, which may occur as a result of reduced bone density, while increased testosterone levels in women are associated with a greater sense of sexual desire.\n\nOophorectomy before the age of 45 is associated with a fivefold mortality from neurologic and mental disorders.\n\nUrinary incontinence and vaginal prolapse are well known adverse effects that develop with high frequency a very long time after the surgery. Typically, those complications develop 10–20 years after the surgery. For this reason exact numbers are not known, and risk factors are poorly understood. It is also unknown if the choice of surgical technique has any effect. It has been assessed that the risk for urinary incontinence is approximately doubled within 20 years after hysterectomy. One long-term study found a 2.4 fold increased risk for surgery to correct urinary stress incontinence following hysterectomy.\n\nThe risk for vaginal prolapse depends on factors such as number of vaginal deliveries, the difficulty of those deliveries, and the type of labor. Overall incidence is approximately doubled after hysterectomy.\n\nThe formation of postoperative adhesions is a particular risk after hysterectomy because of the extent of dissection involved as well as the fact the hysterectomy wound is in the most gravity-dependent part of the pelvis into which a loop of bowel may easily fall. In one review, incidence of small bowel obstruction due to intestinal adhesion was found to be 15.6% in non-laparoscopic total abdominal hysterectomies vs. 0.0% in laparoscopic hysterecomies.\n\nWound infection occurs in approximately 3% of cases of abdominal hysterectomy. The risk is increased by obesity, diabetes, immunodeficiency disorder, use of systemic corticosteroids, smoking, wound hematoma, and preexisting infection such as chorioamnionitis and pelvic inflammatory disease. Such wound infections mainly take the form of either incisional abscess or wound cellulitis. Typically, both confer erythema, but only an incisional abscess confers purulent drainage. The recommended treatment of an incisional abscess after hysterectomy is by incision and drainage, and then coverage by a thin layer of gauze followed by sterile dressing. The dressing should be changed and the wound irrigated with normal saline at least twice each day. In addition, it is recommended to administer an antibiotic active against staphylococci and streptococci, preferably vancomycin when there is a risk of MRSA. The wound can be allowed to close by secondary intention. Alternatively, if the infection is cleared and healthy granulation tissue is evident at the base of the wound, the edges of the incision may be reapproximated, such as by using butterfly stitches, staples or sutures. Sexual intercourse remains possible after hysterectomy. Reconstructive surgery remains an option for women who have experienced benign and malignant conditions. \n\nHysterectomy may cause an increased risk of the relatively rare renal cell carcinoma. The increased risk is particularly pronounced for young women; the risk was lower after vaginally performed hysterectomies. Hormonal effects or injury of the ureter were considered as possible explanations. In some cases the renal cell carcinoma may be a manifestation of an undiagnosed hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer syndrome.\n\nRemoval of the uterus without removing the ovaries can produce a situation that on rare occasions can result in ectopic pregnancy due to an undetected fertilization that had yet to descend into the uterus before surgery. Two cases have been identified and profiled in an issue of the \"Blackwell Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology\"; over 20 other cases have been discussed in additional medical literature. There is possibly another case of ectopic pregnancy after hysterectomy that took place in 2016, although no additional information has been brought forward. On very rare occasions, sexual intercourse after hysterectomy may cause a transvaginal evisceration of the small bowel. The vaginal cuff is the uppermost region of the vagina that has been sutured close. A rare complication, it can dehisce and allow the eviseration of the small bowel into the vagina.\n\nDepending on the indication there are alternatives to hysterectomy :\n\nLevonorgestrel intrauterine devices are highly effective at controlling dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB) or menorrhagia and should be considered before any surgery.\n\nMenorrhagia (heavy or abnormal menstrual bleeding) may also be treated with the less invasive endometrial ablation which is an outpatient procedure in which the lining of the uterus is destroyed with heat, mechanically or by radio frequency ablation. Endometrial ablation greatly reduces or entirely eliminates monthly bleeding in ninety percent of patients with DUB. It is not effective for patients with very thick uterine lining or uterine fibroids.\n\nLevonorgestrel intrauterine devices are highly effective in limiting menstrual blood flow and improving other symptoms. Side effects are typically very moderate because the levonorgestrel (a progestin) is released in low concentration locally. There is now substantial evidence that Levongestrel-IUDs provide good symptomatic relief for women with fibroids.\n\nUterine fibroids may be removed and the uterus reconstructed in a procedure called \"myomectomy.\" A myomectomy may be performed through an open incision, laparoscopically or through the vagina (hysterescopy).\n\n\"Uterine artery embolization\" (UAE) is a minimally invasive procedure for treatment of uterine fibroids. Under local anesthesia a catheter is introduced into the femoral artery at the groin and advanced under radiographic control into the uterine arterty. A mass of microspheres or polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) material (an embolus) is injected into the uterine arteries in order to block the flow of blood through those vessels. The restriction in blood supply usually results in significant reduction of fibroids and improvement of heavy bleeding tendency. The 2012 Cochrane review comparing hysterectomy and UAE did not find any major advantage for either procedure. While UAE is associated with shorter hospital stay and a more rapid return to normal daily activities, it was also associated with a higher risk for minor complications later on. There were no differences between UAE and hysterectomy with regards to major complications.\n\nUterine fibroids can be removed with a non-invasive procedure called Magnetic Resonance guided Focused Ultrasound (MRgFUS).\n\nProlapse may also be corrected surgically without removal of the uterus.\n\nHysterectomy, in the literal sense of the word, means merely removal of the uterus. However other organs such as ovaries, fallopian tubes and the cervix are very frequently removed as part of the surgery.\n\n\nSubtotal (supracervical) hysterectomy was originally proposed with the expectation that it may improve sexual functioning after hysterectomy, it has been postulated that removing the cervix causes excessive neurologic and anatomic disruption, thus leading to vaginal shortening, vaginal vault prolapse, and vaginal cuff granulations. These theoretical advantages were not confirmed in practice, but other advantages over total hysterectomy emerged. The principal disadvantage is that risk of cervical cancer is not eliminated and women may continue cyclical bleeding (although substantially less than before the surgery).\nThese issues were addressed in a systematic review of total versus supracervical hysterectomy for benign gynecological conditions, which reported the following findings:\n\n\nIn the short-term, randomized trials have shown that cervical preservation or removal does not affect the rate of subsequent pelvic organ prolapse.\n\nSupracervical hysterectomy does not eliminate the possibility of having cervical cancer since the cervix itself is left intact and may be contraindicated in women with increased risk of this cancer; regular pap smears to check for cervical dysplasia or cancer are still needed.\n\nHysterectomy can be performed in different ways. The oldest known technique is vaginal hysterectomy. The first planned hysterectomy was performed by Konrad Langenbeck - Surgeon General of the Hannovarian army, although there are records of vaginal hysterectomy for prolapse going back as far as 50BC.\n\nThe first abdominal hysterectomy recorded was by Ephraim McDowell. He performed the procedure in 1809 for a mother of five for a large ovarian mass on her kitchen table.\n\nIn modern medicine today, laparoscopic vaginal (With additional instruments passing through ports in small abdominal incisions, close or in the navel) and total laparoscopic techniques have been developed.\n\nMost hysterectomies in the United States are done via laparotomy (abdominal incision, not to be confused with laparoscopy). A transverse (Pfannenstiel) incision is made through the abdominal wall, usually above the pubic bone, as close to the upper hair line of the individual's lower pelvis as possible, similar to the incision made for a caesarean section. This technique allows physicians the greatest access to the reproductive structures and is normally done for removal of the entire reproductive complex. The recovery time for an open hysterectomy is 4–6 weeks and sometimes longer due to the need to cut through the abdominal wall. Historically, the biggest problem with this technique was infections, but infection rates are well-controlled and not a major concern in modern medical practice. An open hysterectomy provides the most effective way to explore the abdominal cavity and perform complicated surgeries. Before the refinement of the vaginal and laparoscopic vaginal techniques, it was also the only possibility to achieve subtotal hysterectomy; meanwhile, the vaginal route is the preferable technique in most circumstances.\n\nVaginal hysterectomy is performed entirely through the vaginal canal and has clear advantages over abdominal surgery such as fewer complications, shorter hospital stays and shorter healing time. Abdominal hysterectomy, the most common method, is used in cases such as after caesarean delivery, when the indication is cancer, when complications are expected, or surgical exploration is required.\n\nWith the development of laparoscopic techniques in the 1970s and 1980s, the \"laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy\" (LAVH) has gained great popularity among gynecologists because compared with the abdominal procedure it is less invasive and the post-operative recovery is much faster. It also allows better exploration and slightly more complicated surgeries than the vaginal procedure. LAVH begins with laparoscopy and is completed such that the final removal of the uterus (with or without removing the ovaries) is via the vaginal canal. Thus, LAVH is also a total hysterectomy; the cervix is removed with the uterus. If the cervix is removed along with the uterus, the upper portion of the vagina is sutured together and called the vaginal cuff.\n\nThe \"laparoscopic-assisted supracervical hysterectomy\" (LASH) was later developed to remove the uterus without removing the cervix using a morcellator which cuts the uterus into small pieces that can be removed from the abdominal cavity via the laparoscopic ports.\n\nTotal laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) was developed in the early 90s by Prabhat K. Ahluwalia in Upstate New York. TLH is performed solely through the laparoscopes in the abdomen, starting at the top of the uterus, typically with a uterine manipulator. The entire uterus is disconnected from its attachments using long thin instruments through the \"ports\". Then all tissue to be removed is passed through the small abdominal incisions.\n\nSupracervical (subtotal) laparoscopic hysterectomy (LSH) is performed similar to the total laparoscopic surgery but the uterus is amputated between the cervix and fundus.\n\nDual-port laparoscopy is a form of laparoscopic surgery using two 5 mm midline incisions: the uterus is detached through the two ports and removed through the vagina.\n\n\"Robotic hysterectomy\" is a variant of laparoscopic surgery using special remotely controlled instruments that allow the surgeon finer control as well as three-dimensional magnified vision.\n\nPatient characteristics such as the reason for needing a hysterectomy, uterine size, descent of the uterus, presence of diseased tissues surrounding the uterus, previous surgery in the pelvic region, obesity, history of pregnancy, the possibility of endometriosis, or the need for an oophorectomy, will influence a surgeon’s surgical approach when performing a hysterectomy.\n\nVaginal hysterectomy is recommended over other variants where possible for women with benign diseases. Vaginal hysterectomy was shown to be superior to LAVH and some types of laparoscopic surgery causing fewer short- and long-term complications, more favorable effect on sexual experience with shorter recovery times and fewer costs.\n\nLaparoscopic surgery offers certain advantages when vaginal surgery is not possible but also has the disadvantage of significantly longer time required for the surgery.\n\nIn one 2004 study conducted in the UK comparing abdominal (laparotomic) and laparoscopic techniques, laparoscopic surgery was found to cause longer operation time and a higher rate of major complications while offering much quicker healing. In another study conducted in 2014, laparoscopy was found to be \"a safe alternative to laparotomy\" in patients receiving total hysterectomy for endometrial cancer. Researchers concluded the procedure \"offers markedly improved perioperative outcomes with a lower reoperation rate and fewer postoperative complications when the standard of care shifts from open surgery to laparoscopy in a university hospital\".\n\nVaginal hysterectomy is the only available option that is feasible without total anaesthesia or in outpatient settings (although doing it without anesthesia is recommended only in exceptional cases).\n\nThe abdominal technique is very often applied in difficult circumstances or when complications are expected. Given these circumstances the complication rate and time required for surgery compares very favorably with other techniques, however time required for healing is much longer.\n\nHysterectomy by abdominal laparotomy is correlated with much higher incidence of intestinal adhesions than other techniques.\n\nTime required for completion of surgery in the eVAL trial is reported as follows:\n\n\nMorcellation has been widely used especially in laparoscopic techniques and sometimes for the vaginal technique, but now appears to be associated with a considerable risk of spreading benign or malignant tumors. In April 2014, the FDA issued a memo alerting medical practitioners to the risks of power morcellation.\n\nRobotic assisted surgery is presently used in several countries for hysterectomies. Additional research is required to determine the benefits and risks involved, compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery.\n\nA 2014 Cochrane review found that robotic assisted surgery may have a similar complication rate when compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery. In addition, there is evidence to suggest that although the surgery make take longer, robotic assisted surgery may result in shorter hospital stays. More research is necessary to determine if robotic assisted hysterectomies are beneficial for people with cancer.\n\nPreviously reported marginal advantages of robotic assisted surgery could not be confirmed; only differences in hospital stay and cost remain statistically significant.\n\nIn Canada, the \"number\" of hysterectomies between 2008 and 2009 was almost 47,000. The national rate for the same timeline was 338 per 100,000 population, down from 484 per 100,000 in 1997. The reasons for hysterectomies differed depending on whether the woman was living in an urban or rural location. Urban women opted for hysterectomies due to uterine fibroids and rural women had hysterectomies mostly for menstrual disorders.\n\nAccording to the National Center for Health Statistics, of the 617,000 hysterectomies performed in 2004, 73% also involved the surgical removal of the ovaries. In the United States, 1 in 3 women can be expected to have a hysterectomy by age 60. There are currently an estimated 22 million women in the United States who have undergone this procedure.\n\nAccording to the same source, hysterectomy is the second most common major surgery among women in the United States (the first is cesaerean section). In the 1980s and 1990s, this statistic was the source of concern among some consumer rights groups and puzzlement among the medical community, and brought about informed choice advocacy groups like Hysterectomy Educational Resources and Services (HERS) Foundation, founded by Nora W. Coffey in 1982.\n\nIn the UK, 1 in 5 women is likely to have a hysterectomy by the age of 60, and ovaries are removed in about 20% of hysterectomies.\n\nThe number of hysterectomies in Germany has been constant for many years. In 2006, 149,456 hysterectomies were performed. Additionally, Of these, 126,743 (84.8%) successfully benefitted the patient without incident. Women between the ages of 40 and 49 accounted for 50 percent of hysterectomies, and those between the ages of 50 and 59 accounted for 20 percent. In 2007, the number of hysterectomies decreased to 138,164. In recent years, the technique of laparoscopic or laparoscopically assisted hysterectomies has been raised into the foreground.\n\nIn Denmark, the number of hysterectomies from the 1980s to the 1990s decreased by 38 percent. In 1988, there were 173 such surgeries per 100,000 women, and by 1998 this number had been reduced to 107. The proportion of abdominal supracervical hysterectomies in the same time period grew from 7.5 to 41 percent. A total of 67,096 women underwent hysterectomy during these years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1989020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1989020", "title": "Indeterminate growth", "text": "Indeterminate growth\n\nIn biology and botany, indeterminate growth is growth that is not terminated in contrast to determinate growth that stops once a genetically pre-determined structure has completely formed. Thus, a plant that grows and produces flowers and fruit until killed by frost or some other external factor is called indeterminate. For example, the term is applied to tomato varieties that grow in a rather gangly fashion, producing fruit throughout the growing season, and in contrast to a determinate tomato plant, which grows in a more bushy shape and is most productive for a single, larger harvest, then either tapers off with minimal new growth/fruit, or dies.\n\nIn reference to an inflorescence (a shoot specialised for bearing flowers, and bearing no leaves other than bracts), an indeterminate type (such as a raceme) is one in which the first flowers to develop and open are from the buds at the base, followed progressively by buds nearer to the growing tip. The growth of the shoot is not impeded by the opening of the early flowers or development of fruits and its appearance is of growing, producing, and maturing flowers and fruit indefinitely. In practice the continued growth of the terminal end necessarily peters out sooner or later, though without producing any definite terminal flower, and in some species it may stop growing before any of the buds have opened. \n\nNot all plants produce indeterminate inflorescences however; some produce a definite terminal flower that terminates the development of new buds towards the tip of that inflorescence. In most species that produce a \"'determinate\" inflorescence in this way, all of the flower buds are formed before the first ones begin to open, and all open more or less at the same time. In some species with determinate inflorescences however, the terminal flower blooms first, which stops the elongation of the main axis, but side buds develop lower down. One type of example is Dianthus another type is exemplified by Allium and yet others by Daucus.\n\nIn zoology, indeterminate growth refers to the condition where animals grow rapidly when young, and continue to grow after reaching adulthood although at a slower pace. It is common in fish, amphibians, reptiles, and many molluscs. The term also refers to the pattern of hair growth sometimes seen in humans and a few domestic breeds, where hair continues to grow in length until it is cut.\n\nSome mushrooms – notably \"Cantharellus californicus\" – also exhibit indeterminate growth.\n\n"}
{"id": "46672185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46672185", "title": "Jack Quinn (footballer, born 1874)", "text": "Jack Quinn (footballer, born 1874)\n\nJohn James \"Jack\" Quinn (28 September 1874 – 11 December 1918) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Geelong in the Victorian Football League (VFL).\n\nQuinn was a member of the Geelong squad which played in the VFL's inaugural season in 1897 and was one of the 20 Geelong players that debuted in the opening round fixture against Essendon. A forward, Quinn kicked three goals in Geelong's 81-point win over St Kilda at Junction Oval in round seven. Geelong's winning score 16.18 (114) set a league record which lasted until the 1899 VFL season. He missed just one game in the home and away season, which Geelong finished on top of the ladder.\n\nBy the end of 1897 VFL finals series which was to be decided through the round robin format, Geelong were second, with the club's six-point loss to eventual premiers Essendon in week one of the finals proving the difference. Quinn played in all three finals, for a total of 16 games for the year. He kicked 14 goals, a tally bettered by only two teammate, Eddy James and Charlie Coles.\n\nThe following season he appeared in the opening five rounds and didn't play any further senior football for Geelong.\n\nQuinn, who worked as a tanner, got married in 1910 to Elizabeth \"Lizzie\" Evans, a resident of Abbotsford. They had one child, named Bernie.\n\nOn 11 December 1918, Quinn was one of three men killed when gas penetrated a sewer shaft on River Street in Richmond. Two of the men were employees of the Metropolitan Board of Works, one of whom was engaged in tarring the ladder which led down the shaft and fell down the hole when he was overcome by the gas. His colleague William Aldridge went to assist, as did Quinn who was working nearby. All three died of asphyxiation.\n\nBoth Aldridge and Quinn was honoured by the Royal Humane Society of Australasia for their rescue attempt, the society announcing in 1919 that the men's names would be recorded in the archives. The Metropolitan Board of Works donated to a fund to support the family of Jack Quinn.\n\n"}
{"id": "6121385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6121385", "title": "Jerry Brien", "text": "Jerry Brien\n\nJerry Brien (born in Sydney, Australia) was a rugby league footballer and coach. He played for the Western Suburbs Magpies, St. George Dragons and for the New South Wales Rugby League team. He also coached the Canterbury-Bankstown club.\n\nIn 1925, Brien was chosen to play for New South Wales although he was only playing for the Magpies reserve grade, and had played just a handful of first grade games since his debut in 1923.\n\nBrien represented NSW again in 1928, and was selected to represent Australia in the second test against England, but an injury suffered playing for Wests stopped him from making his international debut.\n\nAfter 6 seasons with the Magpies, Brien joined the St. George Dragons for 4 games in 1929.\n\nAfter his retirement as a player, Brien began coaching, including stints with South Grafton in 1932 & Cowra in 1933. In 1937, Brien returned to coach the Magpies for the eight games of the shortened season. In 1939, he took over as coach at Bulldogs for a season, and returned to be at the helm when they won their second premiership in 1942.\n\nBy 1947, Brien was NSW coach and one of their selectors. Later, he became an Australian selector, but was dropped as a NSW selector in March 1951, making him inelegible to fill the national role.\n"}
{"id": "38246114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38246114", "title": "John B. Sheridan", "text": "John B. Sheridan\n\nJohn Brinsley Sheridan (January 22, 1870 – April 14, 1930) was an Irish American sportswriter.\n\nBorn in County Meath, Ireland, Sheridan was the son of Richard and Rosetta (née O'Reilly) Sheridan. He came to the United States when he was 18 years old.\n\nSheridan was an accomplished sports journalist in St. Louis newspapers from 1888 through 1929, while his column for \"Sporting News\" \"Back of Home Plate\", published between 1917 and 1929, earned him national respect as a baseball writer. In addition, he wrote with authority about American football, boxing and golf, among other sports.\n\nBy 1921 he was named chairman of the Missouri Committee on Public Utility Information. While on committee, he \"blew the whistle\" on some dishonest and illegal activities in the department, and decided to submit his resignation. Shortly thereafter he suffered a nervous breakdown because of the affair and underwent medical care in sanitarium, but he never recovered at all.\n\nSheridan died in 1930 in St. Louis, Missouri, at the age of 59. He was found hanging in his room at Alexian Brothers Hospital by a bathrobe cord.\n\nSixteen years later, Sheridan became one of 12 writers who were honored by the Baseball Hall of Fame on a Roll of Honor in its Class of 1946.\n"}
{"id": "43997209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43997209", "title": "Kitten Sanctuary", "text": "Kitten Sanctuary\n\nKitten Sanctuary is the first iOS game of British indie developer Clockwork Pixels, and was released on March 27, 2012.\n\nThe game has a Metacritic score of 85% based on 4 critic reviews.\n\nSlideToPlay wrote \"Not every game needs to be about guns or swords, and Kitten Sanctuary is a great alternative to the violence that computer games are often associated with. \" TouchArcade wrote \"Kitten Sanctuary is a very sweet game, but beyond that it's well-crafted, and the attention to detail shows. \" AppSpy said \"While this is definitely aimed at younger players and lovers of all things kitten, the match three is fun and you definitely get your share of virtual pets. \" 148Apps said \"Kitten Sanctuary doesn't reinvent the cheese wheel here (sorry), but the game successfully blends classic genres in an unexpected way that kept me playing far longer than I anticipated. It's a solid pick-up for casual gamers and cat ladies alike. \"\n"}
{"id": "16736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16736", "title": "Kurt Gödel", "text": "Kurt Gödel\n\nKurt Friedrich Gödel (; ; April 28, 1906 – January 14, 1978) was an Austrian, and later American, logician, mathematician, and philosopher. Considered along with Aristotle, Alfred Tarski and Gottlob Frege to be one of the most significant logicians in history, Gödel made an immense impact upon scientific and philosophical thinking in the 20th century, a time when others such as Bertrand Russell, Alfred North Whitehead, and David Hilbert were analyzing the use of logic and set theory to understand the foundations of mathematics pioneered by Georg Cantor.\n\nGödel published his two incompleteness theorems in 1931 when he was 25 years old, one year after finishing his doctorate at the University of Vienna. The first incompleteness theorem states that for any self-consistent recursive axiomatic system powerful enough to describe the arithmetic of the natural numbers (for example Peano arithmetic), there are true propositions about the naturals that cannot be proved from the axioms. To prove this theorem, Gödel developed a technique now known as Gödel numbering, which codes formal expressions as natural numbers.\n\nHe also showed that neither the axiom of choice nor the continuum hypothesis can be disproved from the accepted axioms of set theory, assuming these axioms are consistent. The former result opened the door for mathematicians to assume the axiom of choice in their proofs. He also made important contributions to proof theory by clarifying the connections between classical logic, intuitionistic logic, and modal logic.\n\nGödel was born April 28, 1906, in Brünn, Austria-Hungary (now Brno, Czech Republic) into the ethnic German family of Rudolf Gödel (1874-1929), the manager of a textile factory, and Marianne Gödel (née Handschuh, 1879-1966). Throughout his life, Gödel would remain close to his mother; their correspondence was frequent and wide-ranging. At the time of his birth the city had a German-speaking majority which included his parents. His father was Catholic and his mother was Protestant and the children were raised Protestant. The ancestors of Kurt Gödel were often active in Brünn's cultural life. For example, his grandfather Joseph Gödel was a famous singer of that time and for some years a member of the \"Brünner Männergesangverein\".\n\nGödel automatically became a Czechoslovak citizen at age 12 when the Austro-Hungarian Empire broke up at the end of World War I. According to his classmate Klepetař, like many residents of the predominantly German Sudetenländer, \"Gödel considered himself always Austrian and an exile in Czechoslovakia\". He chose to become an Austrian citizen at age 23. When Germany annexed Austria in 1938, Gödel automatically became a German citizen at age 32. After World War II, at the age of 42, he became an American citizen.\n\nIn his family, young Kurt was known as \"Herr Warum\" (\"Mr. Why\") because of his insatiable curiosity. According to his brother Rudolf, at the age of six or seven Kurt suffered from rheumatic fever; he completely recovered, but for the rest of his life he remained convinced that his heart had suffered permanent damage. Beginning at age four, Gödel suffered from \"frequent episodes of poor health,\" which would continue for his entire life.\n\nGödel attended the \"Evangelische Volksschule\", a Lutheran school in Brünn from 1912 to 1916, and was enrolled in the \"Deutsches Staats-Realgymnasium\" from 1916 to 1924, excelling with honors in all his subjects, particularly in mathematics, languages and religion. Although Kurt had first excelled in languages, he later became more interested in history and mathematics. His interest in mathematics increased when in 1920 his older brother Rudolf (born 1902) left for Vienna to go to medical school at the University of Vienna. During his teens, Kurt studied Gabelsberger shorthand, Goethe's \"Theory of Colours\" and criticisms of Isaac Newton, and the writings of Immanuel Kant.\n\nAt the age of 18, Gödel joined his brother in Vienna and entered the University of Vienna. By that time, he had already mastered university-level mathematics. Although initially intending to study theoretical physics, he also attended courses on mathematics and philosophy. During this time, he adopted ideas of mathematical realism. He read Kant's \"Metaphysische Anfangsgründe der Naturwissenschaft\", and participated in the Vienna Circle with Moritz Schlick, Hans Hahn, and Rudolf Carnap. Gödel then studied number theory, but when he took part in a seminar run by Moritz Schlick which studied Bertrand Russell's book \"Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy\", he became interested in mathematical logic. According to Gödel, mathematical logic was \"a science prior to all others, which contains the ideas and principles underlying all sciences.\"\n\nAttending a lecture by David Hilbert in Bologna on completeness and consistency of mathematical systems may have set Gödel's life course. In 1928, Hilbert and Wilhelm Ackermann published \"Grundzüge der theoretischen Logik\" (\"Principles of Mathematical Logic\"), an introduction to first-order logic in which the problem of completeness was posed: \"Are the axioms of a formal system sufficient to derive every statement that is true in all models of the system?\"\n\nThis became the topic that Gödel chose for his doctoral work. In 1929, at the age of 23, he completed his doctoral dissertation under Hans Hahn's supervision. In it, he established the completeness of the first-order predicate calculus (Gödel's completeness theorem). He was awarded his doctorate in 1930. His thesis, along with some additional work, was published by the Vienna Academy of Science.\n\nIn 1931 and while still in Vienna, Gödel published his incompleteness theorems in \"Über formal unentscheidbare Sätze der \"Principia Mathematica\" und verwandter Systeme\" (called in English \"On Formally Undecidable Propositions of \"Principia Mathematica\" and Related Systems\"). In that article, he proved for any computable axiomatic system that is powerful enough to describe the arithmetic of the natural numbers (e.g., the Peano axioms or Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory with the axiom of choice), that:\nThese theorems ended a half-century of attempts, beginning with the work of Frege and culminating in \"Principia Mathematica\" and Hilbert's formalism, to find a set of axioms sufficient for all mathematics.\n\nIn hindsight, the basic idea at the heart of the incompleteness theorem is rather simple. Gödel essentially constructed a formula that claims that it is unprovable in a given formal system. If it were provable, it would be false.\nThus there will always be at least one true but unprovable statement.\nThat is, for any computably enumerable set of axioms for arithmetic (that is, a set that can in principle be printed out by an idealized computer with unlimited resources), there is a formula that is true of arithmetic, but which is not provable in that system.\nTo make this precise, however, Gödel needed to produce a method to encode (as natural numbers) statements, proofs, and the concept of provability; he did this using a process known as Gödel numbering.\n\nIn his two-page paper \"Zum intuitionistischen Aussagenkalkül\" (1932) Gödel refuted the finite-valuedness of intuitionistic logic. In the proof, he implicitly used what has later become known as Gödel–Dummett intermediate logic (or Gödel fuzzy logic).\n\nGödel earned his habilitation at Vienna in 1932, and in 1933 he became a \"Privatdozent\" (unpaid lecturer) there. In 1933 Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany, and over the following years the Nazis rose in influence in Austria, and among Vienna's mathematicians.\nIn June 1936, Moritz Schlick, whose seminar had aroused Gödel's interest in logic, was assassinated by one of his former students, Johann Nelböck. This triggered \"a severe nervous crisis\" in Gödel.\nHe developed paranoid symptoms, including a fear of being poisoned, and spent several months in a sanitarium for nervous diseases.\n\nIn 1933, Gödel first traveled to the U.S., where he met Albert Einstein, who became a good friend. He delivered an address to the annual meeting of the American Mathematical Society. During this year, Gödel also developed the ideas of computability and recursive functions to the point where he was able to present a lecture on general recursive functions and the concept of truth. This work was developed in number theory, using Gödel numbering.\n\nIn 1934 Gödel gave a series of lectures at the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) in Princeton, New Jersey, entitled \"On undecidable propositions of formal mathematical systems\". Stephen Kleene, who had just completed his PhD at Princeton, took notes of these lectures that have been subsequently published.\n\nGödel visited the IAS again in the autumn of 1935. The traveling and the hard work had exhausted him, and the next year he took a break to recover from a depressive episode. He returned to teaching in 1937. During this time, he worked on the proof of consistency of the axiom of choice and of the continuum hypothesis; he went on to show that these hypotheses cannot be disproved from the common system of axioms of set theory.\n\nHe married Adele Nimbursky (née Porkert, 1899–1981), whom he had known for over 10 years, on September 20, 1938.\nTheir relationship had been opposed by his parents on the grounds that she was a divorced dancer, six years older than he was.\n\nSubsequently, he left for another visit to the United States, spending the autumn of 1938 at the IAS and publishing \"Consistency of the axiom of choice and of the generalized continuum-hypothesis with the axioms of set theory,\" a classic of modern mathematics. In that work he introduced the constructible universe, a model of set theory in which the only sets that exist are those that can be constructed from simpler sets. Gödel showed that both the axiom of choice (AC) and the generalized continuum hypothesis (GCH) are true in the constructible universe, and therefore must be consistent with the Zermelo–Fraenkel axioms for set theory (ZF). This result has had considerable consequences for working mathematicians, as it means they can assume the axiom of choice when proving the Hahn–Banach theorem. Paul Cohen later constructed a model of ZF in which AC and GCH are false; together these proofs mean that AC and GCH are independent of the ZF axioms for set theory.\n\nGodel spent the spring of 1939 at the University of Notre Dame.\n\nAfter the Anschluss on 12 March 1938, Austria had become a part of Nazi Germany.\nGermany abolished the title \"Privatdozent\", so Gödel had to apply for a different position under the new order. His former association with Jewish members of the Vienna Circle, especially with Hahn, weighed against him. The University of Vienna turned his application down.\n\nHis predicament intensified when the German army found him fit for conscription. World War II started in September 1939.\nBefore the year was up, Gödel and his wife left Vienna for Princeton. To avoid the difficulty of an Atlantic crossing, the Gödels took the Trans-Siberian Railway to the Pacific, sailed from Japan to San Francisco (which they reached on March 4, 1940), then crossed the US by train to Princeton. There Gödel accepted a position at the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS), which he had previously visited during 1933-34.\n\nAlbert Einstein was also living at Princeton during this time. Gödel and Einstein developed a strong friendship, and were known to take long walks together to and from the Institute for Advanced Study. The nature of their conversations was a mystery to the other Institute members. Economist Oskar Morgenstern recounts that toward the end of his life Einstein confided that his \"own work no longer meant much, that he came to the Institute merely ... to have the privilege of walking home with Gödel\".\n\nGödel and his wife, Adele, spent the summer of 1942 in Blue Hill, Maine, at the Blue Hill Inn at the top of the bay. Gödel was not merely vacationing but had a very productive summer of work. Using \"Heft\" 15 [volume 15] of Gödel's still-unpublished \"Arbeitshefte\" [working notebooks], John W. Dawson Jr. conjectures that Gödel discovered a proof for the independence of the axiom of choice from finite type theory, a weakened form of set theory, while in Blue Hill in 1942. Gödel's close friend Hao Wang supports this conjecture, noting that Gödel's Blue Hill notebooks contain his most extensive treatment of the problem.\n\nOn December 5, 1947, Einstein and Morgenstern accompanied Gödel to his U.S. citizenship exam, where they acted as witnesses. Gödel had confided in them that he had discovered an inconsistency in the U.S. Constitution that could allow the U.S. to become a dictatorship. Einstein and Morgenstern were concerned that their friend's unpredictable behavior might jeopardize his application. The judge turned out to be Phillip Forman, who knew Einstein and had administered the oath at Einstein's own citizenship hearing. Everything went smoothly until Forman happened to ask Gödel if he thought a dictatorship like the Nazi regime could happen in the U.S. Gödel then started to explain his discovery to Forman. Forman understood what was going on, cut Gödel off, and moved the hearing on to other questions and a routine conclusion.\n\nGödel became a permanent member of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton in 1946. Around this time he stopped publishing, though he continued to work. He became a full professor at the Institute in 1953 and an emeritus professor in 1976.\n\nDuring his many years at the Institute, Gödel's interests turned to philosophy and physics. In 1949, he demonstrated the existence of solutions involving closed timelike curves, to Einstein's field equations in general relativity. He is said to have given this elaboration to Einstein as a present for his 70th birthday. His \"rotating universes\" would allow time travel to the past and caused Einstein to have doubts about his own theory. His solutions are known as the Gödel metric (an exact solution of the Einstein field equation).\n\nHe studied and admired the works of Gottfried Leibniz, but came to believe that a hostile conspiracy had caused some of Leibniz's works to be suppressed. To a lesser extent he studied Immanuel Kant and Edmund Husserl. In the early 1970s, Gödel circulated among his friends an elaboration of Leibniz's version of Anselm of Canterbury's ontological proof of God's existence. This is now known as Gödel's ontological proof.\n\nGödel was awarded (with Julian Schwinger) the first Albert Einstein Award in 1951, and was also awarded the National Medal of Science, in 1974. Gödel was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society (ForMemRS) in 1968. He was a Plenary Speaker of the ICM in 1950 in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Gödel Prize, an annual prize for outstanding papers in the area of theoretical computer science, is named after him.\n\nLater in his life, Gödel suffered periods of mental instability and illness. He had an obsessive fear of being poisoned; he would eat only food that his wife, Adele, prepared for him. Late in 1977, she was hospitalized for six months and could no longer prepare her husband's food. In her absence, he refused to eat, eventually starving to death. He weighed when he died. His death certificate reported that he died of \"malnutrition and inanition caused by personality disturbance\" in Princeton Hospital on January 14, 1978. He was buried in Princeton Cemetery. Adele's death followed in 1981.\n\nGödel was a convinced theist, in the Christian tradition. He held the notion that God was personal.\n\nHe believed firmly in an afterlife, stating: \"Of course this supposes that there are many relationships which today's science and received wisdom haven't any inkling of. But I am convinced of this [the afterlife], independently of any theology.\" It is \"possible today to perceive, by pure reasoning\" that it \"is entirely consistent with known facts.\" \"If the world is rationally constructed and has meaning, then there must be such a thing [as an afterlife].\"\n\nIn an unmailed answer to a questionnaire, Gödel described his religion as \"baptized Lutheran (but not member of any religious congregation). My belief is \"theistic\", not pantheistic, following Leibniz rather than Spinoza.\" Describing religion(s) in general, Gödel said: \"Religions are, for the most part, bad—but religion is not\". According to his wife Adele, \"Gödel, although he did not go to church, was religious and read the Bible in bed every Sunday morning\", while of Islam, he said, \"I like Islam: it is a consistent [or consequential] idea of religion and open-minded\".\n\nThe Kurt Gödel Society, founded in 1987, was named in his honor. It is an international organization for the promotion of research in the areas of logic, philosophy, and the history of mathematics. The University of Vienna hosts the Kurt Gödel Research Center for Mathematical Logic. The Association for Symbolic Logic has invited an annual Kurt Gödel lecturer each year since 1990.\n\nFive volumes of Gödel's collected works have been published. The first two include Gödel's publications; the third includes unpublished manuscripts from Gödel's \"Nachlass\", and the final two include correspondence.\n\nA biography of Gödel was published by John Dawson in 2005: \"Logical Dilemmas: The Life and Work of Kurt Gödel\" (A. K. Peters, Wellesley, MA, ). Gödel was also one of four mathematicians examined in the 2008 BBC documentary entitled \"Dangerous Knowledge\" by David Malone.\n\nDouglas Hofstadter wrote a popular book in 1979 called \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\" to celebrate the work and ideas of Gödel, along with those of artist M. C. Escher and composer Johann Sebastian Bach. The book partly explores the ramifications of the fact that Gödel's incompleteness theorem can be applied to any Turing-complete computational system, which may include the human brain.\n\nIn German:\n\nIn English:\n\nIn English translation:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "96901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96901", "title": "Laura Serrano", "text": "Laura Serrano\n\nLaura Serrano Garcia (born October 20, 1967 in Mexico City) is a Mexican boxer.\n\nSerrano began boxing at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México in Mexico City, where she was studying to become a lawyer. She wanted to lose weight and stay in shape. She applied for a professional boxer's license in Mexico. After a short appearance in two episodes of the \"Volver a empezar\" soap opera, she went to Las Vegas, and on a pay per view card she challenged Christy Martin for the world title . It was her first fight as a professional and resulted in a draw.\n\nSerrano's next fight was against world champion Deirdre Gogarty. She won by a knockout in seven rounds, in what was the first all women's boxing undercard held at the Aladdin Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas.\n\nSerrano was supposed to box on the Julio César Chávez-Miguel Ángel González Pay Per View event's undercard in Mexico City, until an ordinance from 1947 was found, forbidding women from boxing events in Mexico. Thanks in part to Serrano's subsequent legal battle, the ordinance was dropped.\n\nSerrano suffered a foot injury for which she underwent surgery, but in 1999 she came back and won a decision in her comeback bout. She then, on 2 September 1999, [details from her BoxRec page] met and defeated the world champion Tracy Byrd to become Mexico's first woman world boxing champion.\n\nShe defended her title against Cinthya Prouder (won in a unanimous decision after round 6), Alicia Ashley (won in a unanimous decision after round 8), Gina Greenwald (knockout in round 1) and Kelsey Jeffries (knockout in round 3), followed. The Jeffries fight resulted in Jeffries' first defeat.\n\nOn August 12, 2008, Serrano challenged Melissa Del Valle for the Junior Lightweight title. Once again, this world title attempt resulted in a draw (tie).\n\nSerrano has won her last two world title defenses, both decisions, one in ten rounds in Las Vegas and another one, a six-round win in Phoenix.\n\nAs of 2005, she was engaged to be married to a Puerto Rican. Serrano is also a lawyer.\n\nDuring 2015, she was inducted as the first Hispanic in the International Women's Boxing Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "6681560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6681560", "title": "Len Supulski", "text": "Len Supulski\n\nLeonard Peter Supulski (December 15, 1920 – August 31, 1943) was an American football end in the National Football League (NFL) for the Philadelphia Eagles.\n\nSupulski was born in Kingston, Pennsylvania, and attended Kingston High School. He was one of the twelve children of a Lithuanian immigrant.\n\nSupulski attended and played college football at Dickinson College, but failed to graduate. He caught 48 for 586 yards in 1941, a school record that stood until 1984, and was a United Press International All-Eastern first team choice. In , Supulski played in six games for the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League.\n\nSupulski was inducted into the Dickinson Hall of Fame in 1981.\n\nSupulski entered the United States Army Air Forces and reported to the 582nd Bomb Squadron for advanced training in Nebraska to prepare for service in World War II. Two weeks later, he was killed along with seven others in the crash of a Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress bomber near Kearney, Nebraska, during a training flight on August 31, 1943.\n\n"}
{"id": "25577815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25577815", "title": "Life Sciences (journal)", "text": "Life Sciences (journal)\n\nLife Sciences is a weekly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on the molecular, cellular, and physiological mechanisms of pharmacotherapy.\n\nIndexed by ISI Life Sciences received an impact factor of 2.702 as reported in the 2014 Journal Citation Reports by Thomson Reuters, ranking it 53rd out of 123 journals in the category \"Medicine, research & experimental\" and ranking it 103rd out of 254 journals in the category \"Pharmacology & Pharmacy\".\n\nThe current Editor in Chief is Loren E. Wold.\n"}
{"id": "230598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230598", "title": "Loïc Leferme", "text": "Loïc Leferme\n\nLoïc Leferme (28 August 1970–11 April 2007) was a French diver who was the world free diving record holder until 2 October 2005, when he was surpassed by Herbert Nitsch. Loic was also a founder of AIDA in 1990 with Roland Specker and Claude Chapuis in Nice. In 2002 he set the world free diving record without any breathing apparatus at 162 meters. His first world record was 137 meters (1999). On 30 October 2004, he extended his own world record to 171 meters in the no limits free-diving category. The premier advocate of this type of freediving which has come to be known as Chapuis Style Freediving. \n\nHe died during a private training session in Villefranche-sur-Mer when his equipment failed and he did not reach the surface in time. He was in training for a planned record attempt in July 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "48004357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48004357", "title": "Marjorie Stinson", "text": "Marjorie Stinson\n\nMarjorie Claire Stinson (July 5, 1895 – April 15, 1975) was an American aviator.\n\nShe trained at the Wright Flying School, and earned her Fédération Aéronautique Internationale license in 1914, becoming the ninth person to do so. Stinson became an exhibition pilot, and later was the first female airmail pilot in the United States, flying from Seguin to San Antonio, Texas in 1915. Along with her sister Katherine, she taught at the Stinson School of Flying established by her mother. After it closed, Marjorie returned to exhibition flying and worked at the Department of the Navy, retiring in 1945. She died at Rogers Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C. in 1975. Stinson was a charter member of the Ninety-Nines.\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of her sister, Katherine, Marjorie Stinson learned to fly in June 1914 at the Wright School in Dayton. After being unsuccessful in starting an airmail route in Texas, she joined the family flight school, where she was an instructor like her sister. In 1915 she was the only woman admitted into the US Aviation Reserve Corps. In 1916 the Royal Canadian Flying Corps began sending their cadets to the Stinson School for their training, where she was referred to as \"The Flying Schoolmarm\" and her students as \"The Texas Escadrille\"\n\nFrom 1917 to 1928 Marjorie was a very successful stunt show pilot performing at events like:\n\nWhen Marjorie died in 1976 on July 26 she was cremated and her ashes spread across the Stinson Airfield. \n\nAfter being established 1915 by the Stinson Family, the Stinson Municipal Airport is the second oldest general aviation airport. It holds the home of the Texas Flight Museum and was used as a training base for the United States Army Air Forces during World War 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "44534107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44534107", "title": "Muslim Youth uprising", "text": "Muslim Youth uprising\n\nThe Muslim Youth uprising is the official name given to an unsuccessful \"Islamic revolution\" that was set to take place in Egypt on November 28, 2014. The Salafist Front, an Islamist organization which is part of the now banned Muslim Brotherhood-led Anti-Coup Alliance, had initially planned for the uprising earlier in November. The protests' main goal was to establish the \"Islamic identity\" in Egypt, which they claim to have been hijacked by \"secular conspiracies\".\n\nOn November 25, Egypt's interior minister, Mohamed Ibrahim, vowed to use lethal force against any attempts to assault public facilities. He said that his forces would use \"all means\" necessary to fight \"terrorist factions\". The same day, Ibrahim held a meeting with heads of different police departments and security directors of Greater Cairo to discuss plans to counter any anticipated acts of violence. The meeting also included other government departments such as communications, information technology and transportation.\n\nSecurity officials have been mainly worried that the supposed protests would be used as a cover by the insurgent group Ansar Bayt al-Maqdis, which recently pledged allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, to carry out bombings and attacks on this day.\n\nTwo senior army officers were killed, including a brigadier-general who was killed in a drive-by shooting in Abu Zaabal. Two army conscripts were also injured.\n"}
{"id": "2733539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2733539", "title": "Philip Aaberg", "text": "Philip Aaberg\n\nPhilip Aaberg (born April 8, 1949) is an American pianist and composer. He gained international recognition through a series of successful piano recordings released on Windham Hill Records. Although classically trained, Aaberg incorporates classical, jazz, bluegrass, rock, and new music elements into his compositions and musical structures. Although best known for his solo piano work, he is most at home in the chamber jazz genre. His compositions are noted for their \"rigorous keyboard technique, diverse influences, and colorful compositional style.\"\n\nPhilip Aaberg was born in Havre, Montana in 1949 and raised in Chester, Montana. By the age of 14, he was performing with local bands at dances. After receiving his Bachelor of Arts degree in music from Harvard University, he moved to Oakland, California and played in blues clubs for several years. He also toured and recorded as a member of Elvin Bishop's Group at the time of its greatest popularity, and co-wrote the title song of the band's 1976 \"Struttin' My Stuff\" release, an album which also included Bishop's biggest hit, \"Fooled Around and Fell in Love,\" featuring Aaberg on piano.\n\nIn 1985, Aaberg signed a recording contract with Windham Hill Records and released the highly acclaimed solo album \"High Plains\" that showcased his eclectic musical background. He followed this up with seven more solo albums:\" Out of the Frame\" (1988), \"Upright \"(1989), \"Cinema\" (1992), \"Field Notes\" (2000), \"Live from Montana\" (2000), which received a Grammy nomination, \"Christmas\" (2002), and \"Blue West\" (2005). Aaberg also appeared regularly on the popular Windham Hill Sampler albums over the past 20 years and has had success in various collaborations and ensemble projects.\n\nAaberg has performed with the Boston Pops Orchestra and has appeared at the Marlboro Chamber Music Festival. As a guest artist, he has performed on over 200 albums and on PBS's All-American Jazz program, which earned him an Emmy Award nomination. He has appeared with Peter Gabriel and Tom Johnston of the Doobie Brothers in concert.\n\nIn 2000, Aaberg began his own record label with his wife Patty, Sweetgrass Music, through which he has since endeavored to produce music that \"connects a global audience to the sweeping landscape of the West.\" Throughout his career, Aaberg has produced music that consistently translated Montana's farms, ranches, and native cultures into \"musical concepts\" and has \"forged a unique keyboard style that paints an audible portrait of his home state.\" Philip also produces a public radio program \"Of the West: Creativity and Sense of Place.\" www.ofthewest.net He received a Montana Governor's Award for the Arts and in 2011, received a Montana Arts Council Innovator Award. His score for \"Class C: The Only Game in Town\" was nominated for a regional Emmy. Philip and his wife, Patty, run Sweetgrass Music, the Great Northern Bed and Breakfast, the Westland Suite, and The Bin (recording studio).\n\nSolo recordings\n\n\nCollaborations\n\n\nGuest appearances\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "445095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445095", "title": "Pokémon Channel", "text": "Pokémon Channel\n\nPokémon Channel, released in Japan as , is a 2003 video game in the \"Pokémon\" series for the GameCube, developed by Ambrella, published by The Pokémon Company and distributed by Nintendo. The player's goal is to help Professor Oak refine and promote his TV network through watching broadcasts with a Pikachu. The game contains elements of the adventure, digital pet, and simulation genres. The player can explore full 3D environments, have Pikachu converse with other Pokémon, and collect various items.\n\nThe game was developed rather quickly as a sequel to the Nintendo 64 title \"Hey You, Pikachu!\" and to promote the Nintendo e-Reader accessory, and uses a novel 3D texturing effect. It was first showcased at Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) 2003 and later through a month-long series of promotional events in Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan. It was released on July 18, 2003, in Japan, December 1 in North America, and April 2, 2004, in Europe. In Japan, the game sold 66,373 copies in its first year. It received mixed reviews, which generally criticized its low level of interactivity and repetitive sound effects, though its collecting aspects and visuals were somewhat better received.\n\n\"Pokémon Channel\" is difficult to categorize into a genre, as it incorporates elements of adventure, simulation, and digital pet games. The graphics are in 3D, the perspective is first-person, and the player navigates and selects things with a cursor. The game centers on watching television programs with a Pikachu, a mouse-like Pokémon. The player, who lives in a house, can channel-surf freely among the various channels of a television network created by the Pokémon professor, Professor Oak, as well as explore one room of the house and several outdoor areas. Pikachu sometimes displays emotional reactions while watching, such as happiness or anger. The game takes place over a few days, with unique plot events on each. The GameCube's inner clock tracks time such that every in-game day lasts at least as long as one real-time day.\n\nWhile several channels are available, only a few are essential to the completion of the game. The player saves the game by reporting on recent accomplishments to Oak at \"Prof. Oak Report\", watches episodes of an anime series at \"Pichu Bros.\", and listens to plot-advancing news coverage from a Psyduck at \"Pokémon News Flash\" (PNF). On a channel called \"Shop 'n Squirtle\", the player uses the game's currency, \"Poké\", to purchase bus passes to travel among the game's locations, as well as non-essential items like Pokémon dolls, new television sets in various styles, and other decorations, all delivered by a Delibird (a bird-like Pokémon that carries various items in its satchel). Extraneous channels include the trivia-based game show \"Quiz Wobbuffet\", where the player earns Poké, the art exhibition program \"Smeargle's Art Study\", where Smeargle gives opinions on art that can be created in a paint-by-numbers style in the player's house, and the exercise program \"Smoochum Shape-Up\".\n\nThe main collectibles available in \"Pokémon Channel\" are trading cards that display various Pokémon. The trading cards, known in game as Nice Cards, exist in three forms: Single, which simply show a picture; Motion, which are holographic; and Platinum, which are holographic and play the respective Pokémon's cries. The collectibles can be found by having Pikachu speak with other Pokémon and help them with tasks, or by ordering from \"Shop 'n Squirtle\". There is a virtual Pokémon Mini console hidden under the player's bed that plays six games: \"Snorlax's Lunch Time\" (exclusive to \"Pokémon Channel\") and five others previously released for the real-life Pokémon Mini. The games are simple and mainly based on rhythm.\n\nThe game opens with a group of Magnemite—magnet-like Pokémon with levitation abilities—delivering a television to the player's house. Upon turning the television on, Professor Oak appears to request the player's help: he is creating a new television network for Trainers and their Pokémon to enjoy together, and he wants the player to serve as a beta tester. He has them watch an episode of an anime called \"Pichu Bros.\" and then introduces the game's basic features before leaving them alone. The player then hears Pokémon cries from outside, which turn out to belong to a Pikachu and two other creatures: the reptilian Treecko and the avian Torchic. While the others run off, the Pikachu stays and the player adopts it. Oak decides to allow Pikachu to be a second beta tester.\n\nAfter completing a few tasks, the player returns to Oak's channel, and the Professor remarks that Pikachu has behaved remarkably well. The overexcited Pikachu uses its Thunderbolt attack on the television and destroys it. Unfazed, Oak has the Magnemite deliver a \"retro\" television while the player and Pikachu wait for a replacement of the original. When the replacement arrives the next morning, the Professor remarks that the player's viewership has brought life to the network and helped spawn new shows. The player then finds a bus stop and visits Viridian Forest, a location that first appeared in \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\".\n\nThe third day opens with Pikachu asleep in the cupboard and Oak expressing pleasure at the Pokémon's growing attachment to the player. On the fourth day, Pikachu invites its friends back over. Little else occurs on these two days besides visits to the snowy Mt. Snowfall and the tropical Cobalt Coast, although Oak does continue to laud the player's investment in the network, which has become a huge success.\n\nOn the morning of the fifth day, the \"Pokémon News Flash\" reports on a breaking news story: a disc containing the unaired fifth episode of \"Pichu Bros.\" was dropped and lost by the delivery Magnemite on their way to the show's broadcasting studio. After obtaining a lamp from a friendly Duskull in the front lawn, the player takes a bus back to Mt. Snowfall, where the disc was presumed lost. Eastward are the Ruins of Truth, where the stubborn Ghost-type Pokémon Gengar blocks the player's path until it is scared away by the lamp. Inside the Ruins, Pikachu gets stuck inside a statue of the bat-like Pokémon Golbat. Upon being shaken free, the missing disc pops out. The player hands it back to Magnemite, who is waiting sheepishly outside, and heads home to watch the last episode, along with a video called \"Meowth's Party\".\n\nOak informs the player that every program produced for his network has been aired, thanking the player and Pikachu for their time, and announces the impending arrival of a gift for them. The gift, which arrives the following morning, is a \"Star Projector\", a device for viewing images flashed across the sky. That night, Professor Oak notices that a Pokémon has arrived at the player's house—the rare and legendary Jirachi—which leaves him in shock. The player, Pikachu, and Jirachi then visit Camp Starlight, the locale for which the Projector is intended. Using it, they project the entire series of \"Pichu Bros.\" and \"Meowth's Party\" onto the sky for the universe to see, and the story ends. This event also allows players of the PAL version (i.a. Europe and Australia) to download a Jirachi to a copy of \"Pokémon Ruby\" or \"Sapphire\" via the Nintendo GameCube – Game Boy Advance link cable.\n\n\"Pokémon Channel\" was developed by Nintendo subsidiary Ambrella and published by Nintendo and The Pokémon Company. It was created both to serve as a spiritual successor to \"Hey You, Pikachu!\"—a similar digital pet-type game wherein the player plays with a Pikachu—and to promote the Nintendo e-Reader peripheral device. The game included three e-Reader-compatible cards, but not the e-Reader device itself. When scanned, the cards upload new templates for the player to paint and for Smeargle to critique.\n\nThe game uses the visual effect of applying pre-rendered video footage to a polygon, specifically the game's pre-recorded shows on the television. IGN writer Anoop Gantayat praised this effect's implementation, although he did note some minor graphical issues visible in the transition from distanced to full-screen viewing. Also unusual for the \"Pokémon\" video game series, the Pokémon's voices are borrowed from the anime and sound like their names.\n\nThe game was first announced at E3 2003, where IGN staff noted that the game's demo appeared to be early in development due to its choppy frame rate. \"Pokémon Channel\" was released on July 18, 2003, in Japan, December 1 in North America, and April 2, 2004, in Europe. The game was showcased on its Japanese release date at the Sapporo, Hokkaido, location of , a series of promotional events that extended across Japan and lasted about a month. Attendees could play the game at GameCube kiosks.\n\n\"Pokémon Channel\" has scores of 51% and 55% on the review aggregators GameRankings and Metacritic, respectively, both indicating a mixed or average reception. Reviewers felt that the game would only suit existing \"Pokémon\" fans and young children: staff at 1UP.com summarized that \"the various diversions here are cute, slickly produced, and entertaining, assuming you really, really dig Pokémon\", and that even fans would be bored if over the age of five. Justin Leeper of \"Game Informer\" claimed that fans would enjoy it but \"everyone else will be turned off, pun intended\". Author Tokyo Drifter of \"GamePro\" guessed that the game had been \"tailored for die-hard fans\" and would please no one else. IGN's Mary Jane Irwin stated that its intuitive interface, copious instructions, and \"mindless entertainment\" would keep young players entertained. \"Nintendo Power\"s review called the game \"hours of fun for \"Pokémon\" fans.\"\n\nReviewers complained about the game's low level of interactivity due to most of the gameplay time being spent watching television with Pikachu. Summarizing the gameplay in general as \"weak\", GameSpot's Ricardo Torres argued that the game's promising ideas were fundamentally deadened by \"the gimmick of having to 'virtually' watch television programs\" and the long stretches of time this entails. Leeper claimed that Pikachu \"will be content much longer than you will\" and decried the channels' non-interactive nature while praising the unlockable status of a few. Darryl Vassar of GameSpy went even further and claimed that there was \"no gameplay\". He gave the game only one star out of five as a result, despite calling the animation quality and Pokémon voices \"decent\". Tokyo Drifter found its low interactivity and slow pace to be the two biggest barriers for \"Pokémon\" fan enjoyment, and gave the game a 3.0 on a five-point scale. Irwin stated that the player would desire more interactivity and condemned the programs overall, with the exception of \"Pichu Bros\", which she called \"the only worthwhile programming\".\n\nThe game's 3D graphics received lukewarm opinions. Torres called them \"decent but unspectacular\" and \"bland\". His praise focused on the animations of the Pokémon with \"distinct animations that suit their personalities\", especially that of Pikachu. Irwin echoed these opinions. Vassar stated that the Pokémon animations were better than those in the then-upcoming GameCube title \"Pokémon Colosseum\" and found the environments passable, if boring and overly limited. Tokyo Drifter found the environments \"bright and colorful\" while wholeheartedly praising the smooth and \"adorable\" Pokémon animations.\n\nThe sound and music were negatively received. Torres focused on their repetitiveness, stating that some of the music within the programs was catchy but \"it starts to grate after some of the mandatory repeated viewings you'll have to endure\", and that the paucity of sound effects \"puts the weight of the audio burden on the Pokémon voices, which, while accurate, are naturally repetitive\". Irwin and Vassar gave special focus to the repetitiveness of the voices. Tokyo Drifter gave little opinion on the voices but found the lack of voice acting for Oak to be disappointing.\n\nCritics praised the large number of collectible items and Pokémon in the game. Torres noted the game's many items to collect and Pokémon for Pikachu to meet, and praised the game's increased replay value as a result. Tokyo Drifter thought similarly, calling the collecting aspects \"a prominent part of the gaming experience\". Irwin found the collecting aspects a nice way to pass time and called the incorporation of the virtual Pokémon Mini \"a nice diversion\".\n\nWithin three days of its Japanese release, \"Pokémon Channel\" sold 12,581 copies, making it the thirteenth best-selling game among all platforms during its release week (July 14 to July 20). By August 17, 2003, its Japanese sales totaled 38,617 copies. The title had sold 66,373 copies in Japan by December 28 of the same year.\n"}
{"id": "49821898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49821898", "title": "Polymer sponge", "text": "Polymer sponge\n\nTaking clues from spongy toddler toys that can absorb water and inflate to bigger sizes, scientists at Mayo Clinical Research Centre, Rochester, Minnesota, United States have developed biodegradable polymer grafts that, when surgically placed in damaged vertebrae, intended to grow such that it is just the right size and shape to fix the spinal column.\n\nFor obvious reasons, any problem with the backbone of a vertebrate is often considered a potential disability which can limit a person's ability to manoeuvre their way around their surroundings, cause a lot of pain and be responsible for mental distress. This has been researched upon by Lichun Lu and Xifeng Liu, scientists from Mayo Clinic’s college of medicine, who have developed a novel spinal graft that, once surgically placed in the body, will grow to be just the right size and shape to fix the spinal column. They presented their work at the 251st National Meeting & Exposition of the non-profit organization American Chemical Society (ACS).\n\nCurrent treatments for spinal tumours have been considered way too expensive and invasive. When cancer metastasizes it predominantly tends to settle in the spinal column. A different approach to replacing harmed vertebrae has been investigated. Polymer sponge researchers were reported to being about to present their work in March 2016 to a meeting of the American Chemical Society (ACS).\n\nDoctors can cut out the infected bone tissue (or flat-out replace it as they did in the Sydney case) but that leaves large gaps in the spine. Normally, doctors would either have to open the chest cavity and access the spine from far side (which entails a lengthy recovery and high probability of complications) or they'd make a small incision in the neck/back and inject expandable titanium rods into the bone gap (which is super expensive because titanium). This new technique combines the easy access and short recovery of the titanium rod method with the low cost of the open chest operation. The use of sponges for the treatment of such problems has long been suggested for obvious reasons.\n\nDoctors simply cut a small hole in the patient's neck/back and inject a hydrogel polymer into the bone gap much the same way they would a titanium rod. This polymer absorbs fluids from within the wound and grows to fill the gap. Doctors control how far the polymer expands in any specific direction by first inserting a \"cage\"—basically a pre-expanded shell that the polymer fills in as it spreads. Think of it as the wooden frame that keeps a freshly-poured concrete sidewalk in place until it hardens. Once the polymer fills in the cage, which takes 5 to 10 minutes on average, it will set and harden into a viable prosthetic. From there, surrounding bone tissue grows into and through the polymer, reinforcing and cementing it in place.\n\nThe sponge-like polymer, polycaprolactone (PCL) shows promise as a medical material that can be used to fill gaps in human bones and serve as a scaffold to promote new bone growth. Injuries, birth defects (such as cleft lip and palates), or the removal of tumors in the case of bone cancer can create gaps in bone that are too large to heal naturally. The gaps may dramatically alter a person's phenotypic appearance when they occur in the head, face, or jaw.\n\nWhile there might be a strong possibility that a transplant is rejected, various complications may be averted by the use of techniques like bone marrow transplantation, blood transfusion, T lymphocyte modification and the similar techniques.\n\nThe scope of polymer sponge in this field is still in its infancy and researchers in the field of biotechnological applications for making the concept available to humans and animals may require more attentive financing.\n\n"}
{"id": "178311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178311", "title": "Religious ecstasy", "text": "Religious ecstasy\n\nReligious ecstasy is a type of altered state of consciousness characterized by greatly reduced external awareness and expanded interior mental and spiritual awareness, frequently accompanied by visions and emotional (and sometimes physical) euphoria.\n\nAlthough the experience is usually brief in time, there are records of such experiences lasting several days or even more, and of recurring experiences of ecstasy during one's lifetime.\n\nIn Sufism, the term is referred to as \"wajad\" and the experience is referred to as either \"jazbah (jadbah o jedbah for Maghreb)\" or \"majzoobiyat\".\n\nThe adjective \"religious\" means that the experience occurs in connection with religious activities or is interpreted in context of a religion. Journalist Marghanita Laski writes in her study \"Ecstasy in Religious and Secular Experiences\", first published in 1961:\n\"Epithets are very often applied to mystical experiences including ecstasies without, apparently, any clear idea about the distinctions that are being made. Thus we find experiences given such names as nature, religious, aesthetic, neo-platonic, ecc. experiences, where in some cases the name seems to derive from trigger, sometimes from the overbelief.\n\nYoga provides techniques to attain an ecstasy state called samādhi. According to practitioners, there are various stages of ecstasy, the highest being Nirvikalpa Samadhi. Bhakti Yoga especially, places emphasis on ecstasy as being one of the fruits of its practice.\n\nIn Buddhism, especially in the Pali Canon, there are eight states of trance also called absorption. The first four states are Rupa or, materially-oriented. The next four are Arupa or non-material. These eight states are preliminary trances which lead up to final saturation. In Visuddhimagga, great effort and years of sustained meditation are practiced to reach the first absorption, and that not all individuals are able to accomplish it at all.\n\nIn the Dionysian Mysteries of ancient Greece, initiates used intoxicants, ecstatic dance and music to remove inhibitions and social constraints.\n\nModern meditator experiences in the Thai Forest Tradition, as well as other Theravadan traditions, demonstrates that this effort and rarity is necessary only to become completely immersed in the absorptions and experience no other sensations. It is possible to experience the absorptions in a less intense state with much less practice.\n\nIn the monotheistic tradition, ecstasy is usually associated with communion and oneness with God. However, such experiences can also be personal mystical experiences with no significance to anyone but the person experiencing them. Some charismatic Christians practice ecstatic states (such as \"being slain in the Spirit\") and interpret these as given by the Holy Spirit. The firewalkers of Greece dance themselves into a state of ecstasy at the annual Anastenaria, when they believe themselves under the influence of Saint Constantine.\nHistorically, large groups of individuals have experienced religious ecstasies during periods of Christian revivals, to the point of causing controversy as to the origin and nature of these experiences. In response to claims that all emotional expressions of religious ecstasy were attacks on order and theological soundness from the Devil, Jonathan Edwards published his influential \"Treatise on Religious Affections\". Here, he argues, religious ecstasy could come from oneself, the Devil, or God, and it was only by observing the fruit, or changes in inner thought and behaviour, that one could determine if the religious ecstasy had come from God.\n\nIn modern Pentecostal, charismatic and spirit-filled Christianity, numerous examples of religious ecstasy have transpired, similar to historic revivals. These occurrences however, have changed significantly since the time of the Toronto Blessing phenomena and several other North American so-called revivals and outpourings from the mid 1990s. From that time, religious ecstasy in these movements has been characterized by increasingly unusual behaviors that are understood by adherents to be the anointing of the holy spirit and evidence of God 'doing a new work'. One of the most controversial and strange examples is that of spiritual birthing - a practice during which women, and at times even men, claim to be having actual contractions of the womb while they moan and retch as though experiencing childbirth. It is said to be a prophetic action bringing spiritual blessings from God into the world. Many believe spiritual birthing to be highly demonic in nature and more occult-like than Christian. Religious ecstasy in these Christian movements has also been witnessed in the form of squealing, shrieking, an inability to stand or sit, uttering apocalyptic prophecies, holy laughter, crying and barking. Some people have made dramatic claims of sighting 'gold dust', 'angel feathers', 'holy clouds', or the spontaneous appearance of precious gem stones during ecstatic worship events. Others have claimed to have received spontaneous gold tooth fillings. The Range Christian Fellowship in the conservative Australian city of Toowoomba demonstrates such displays of religious ecstasy on an almost weekly basis. In addition to all of the above, worshippers there also use textile banners and during moments of religious ecstasy believe these banners carry special powers of 'anointing' as a result of divinely inspired artwork. \n\nIn hagiography (writings about Christian saints) many instances are recorded in which saints are granted ecstasies. According to the Catholic Encyclopedia religious ecstasy (called \"supernatural ecstasy\") includes two elements: one, interior and invisible, in which the mind rivets its attention on a religious subject, and another, corporeal and visible, in which the activity of the senses is suspended, reducing the effect of external sensations upon the subject and rendering him or her resistant to awakening. The witnesses of a Marian apparition often describe experiencing these elements of ecstasy.\n\nModern Witchcraft traditions may define themselves as \"ecstatic traditions\", and focus on reaching ecstatic states in their rituals. The Reclaiming Tradition and the Feri Tradition are two modern ecstatic Witchcraft examples.\n\nAs described by the Indian spiritual teacher Meher Baba, God-intoxicated souls known in Sufism as masts experience a unique type of spiritual ecstasy: \"[M]asts are desperately in love with God – or consumed by their love for God. Masts do not suffer from what may be called a disease. They are in a state of mental disorder because their minds are overcome by such intense spiritual energies that are far too much for them, forcing them to lose contact with the world, shed normal human habits and customs, and civilized society and live in a state of spiritual splendor but physical squalor. They are overcome by an agonizing love for God and are drowned in their ecstasy. Only the divine love embodied in a Perfect Master can reach them.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "68193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68193", "title": "Riverworld", "text": "Riverworld\n\nRiverworld is a fictional planet and the setting for a series of science fiction books written by Philip José Farmer. Riverworld is an artificial \"Super-Earth\" environment where all humans (and pre-humans) are reconstructed. The books explore interactions of individuals from many different cultures and time periods. Its underlying theme is quasi-religious. The motivations of alien intelligences operating under ultra-ethical motives are explored.\n\nThe five novels in the series are as follows:\n\nThere are also several Riverworld short stories. The first of these appeared in Farmer's anthology:\n\nIn the early 1990s, it was decided to turn Riverworld into a shared universe anthology series, with numerous authors being invited to participate. Only two volumes were released:\n\nSet millennia in the future, the Riverworld is an Super-Earth-like planet, terraformed to consist solely of a single long river-valley that snakes across its entire surface. The river's source is a small North Polar sea, from which it follows a course tightly zig-zagging across one hemisphere before flowing into another, along an equally labyrinthine path, to the same sea. The river has an average depth of 1.5 miles, and its width ranges from 6.8 miles (11 kilometers) to 24.8 miles (40 kilometers). It is shallow near the shore but plunges to enormous depths towards the channel. The banks are generally smooth and gentle, expanding into wide plains on either side, then assuming jagged hills before an impenetrable mountain range. The valley averages 9 miles in width, but includes narrows and occasional widenings into lakes with islands. From source to mouth, the river is 20 million miles long (Books I, II, & III state the river is 10 million miles long). There are no seasons, and daily variations are metronomic. The only animal life consists of fish and soil worms. The vegetation is lush and of great variety, including trees, flowering vines, several kinds of fast-growing bamboo, and a resilient mat of grass which covers the plains. The Riverworld has no visible moon, but a great number of stellar objects in the sky, including gas sheets and stars close enough to show a visible disk.\n\nThe story of Riverworld begins when 36,006,009,637 humans, varying from the first \"Homo sapiens\" until the early 21st century, are simultaneously resurrected along the river. Of these, 20% are from the 20th century, due to the high population thereof. Originally the cut-off year was given as 1983 (still a speculative date when the novels were first published); but this later was modified to 2008. Purportedly, the cut-off indicated the point at which most of the human race had been purposefully annihilated by first contact with aliens visiting Earth. The protagonists later find this a creative fiction, produced by the masterminds of the resurrection.\n\nIn each area are initially three groups of people: a large group from one time period and place, a smaller group from another time and place, and a very small group of people from random times and places (most of the 20th- and 21st-century humans are part of this last group).\n\nMost of the resurrected awaken in a body equivalent to that of their 25-year-old selves, in perfect health and free of any previous genetic or acquired defects. All heart disease, tooth decay, and blindness are gone, and all amputated limbs are restored; whereas certain neurological impulses (for instance, curiosity or chemical addiction) remain intact. These bodies do not age, after a physical 25 years, and can regenerate nearly any non-fatal injury, including dismemberments and blindings. The new bodies are completely free of infection and seem resistant to it (albeit in the absence of hostile bacteria or viruses on the Riverworld). Initially hairless, the bodies grow cephalic hair and pubic hair at a normal rate. Men do not have foreskins or grow facial hair; whereas women have intact hymens. It is impossible to conceive children on Riverworld.\n\nAnyone who died at an age younger than 25 assumes a body equivalent to that lesser age, which then ages at a normal rate before stopping at 25. No one who was less than five years old at death is resurrected on the Riverworld (it is eventually revealed that children under the age of five were resurrected on another planet, Gardenworld). Should an individual die, they are resurrected elsewhere along the banks of the river. Some people even use this process to travel, though there is a limit to the number of resurrections available to each person.\n\nBecause all the languages of mankind are represented in Riverworld, Esperanto spreads as a common tongue.\n\nOne of the themes of the series is the way historical characters change as a result of this cosmopolitan setting. The first book of the Riverworld series, \"To Your Scattered Bodies Go\", portrays a tormented, drug-addicted Hermann Göring who ends up as a missionary of the Church of the Second Chance, a peaceful religion. Apparently left to their own devices, the people recreate their Earthly societies.\n\nThe resurrected awaken with nearly-indestructible containers tied to their wrists, commonly called \"grails\", which produce food, drink, pieces of cloth, and luxury items, such as alcohol, tobacco, marijuana (and lighters for same), hair care utensils, makeup, and a hallucinogenic chewing gum, known as \"dreamgum\". To operate, grails must be placed onto large, mushroom-shaped \"grailstones\", found at intervals along the riverbanks, which produce an electrical discharge three times per day (corresponding to the times of breakfast, lunch and dinner). As agriculture is absent and impossible on the Riverworld, the grails are vital to an individual's survival, and cannot be opened except by its owner. Nevertheless, \"grail slavery\" is not uncommon, in which a person is held captive and the contents of his or her grail, retrieved by the owner, are taken by force by the captor. The slaver will usually provide the slave with enough food to keep him alive, as once a person dies their grail becomes useless.\n\nOf special value are \"free grails\", originally found atop each of the grailstones as a demonstration of their relationship. Free grails can be opened by any individual, and as such, are valued for an extra ration of goods at each interval. Throughout the series, several main characters lose their original grails and must seek free grails to survive.\n\nThough the grails provide for all needs and the climate is hospitable, further attempts to affect the environment are frustrated by the near-complete lack of metals and ores on the planet. The only building materials available are bamboo, wood, and human or fish bones and hides. Pockets of flint (eventually depleted) provide material for tools. With technology limited to the paleolithic level, the surrounding mountains are impassable.\n\nTravel along the river is hindered by division of the Riverworld into thousands of empires, monarchies, republics, and other social systems, each only a few kilometers long and housing 90 people per square kilometer. Because the distribution of populations along the river seems random, the character of these nations can vary wildly within a very short span; whereby one can enter dangerously unknown and potentially hostile territory in less than a day's journey.\n\nThe reason of the existence of Riverworld is initially a complete mystery. In Farmer's books a number of historical figures - including Sir Richard Burton, Alice Hargreaves, Samuel Clemens, King John of England, Cyrano de Bergerac, Tom Mix, Mozart, Jack London, Lothar von Richthofen, and Hermann Göring - interact with fictional characters to discover the Riverworld's purpose. Another character, Peter Jairus Frigate, bears a striking resemblance to Farmer himself, and shares his initials. There are two versions of the character: one who appears early in the sequence, the third overall character to be introduced, and another, the \"real\" version, who concludes that the first was his brother who died as a baby, resurrected and used as a spy by the creators of the Riverworld.\n\nThe story gradually reveals that the Riverworld was created as a moral test for humanity. In the Riverworld universe sapience is the result of an artificially created soul, known as a \"wathan\", created by a generator developed and distributed among various worlds by an unknown ancient alien race. Wathan generators create wathans which attach themselves to sufficiently advanced chordates. Wathans are indestructible but become detached from the body upon physical death and wander the universe without purpose.\n\nThe first race to create wathans were adept tool users, but lacked individual sapience. Self-awareness increased their capabilities by an order of magnitude, and as the creators of wathan technology, they were able to \"catch\" wathans released by their own deaths, resurrecting themselves until individual resurrections became impossible. As this happened only to the wisest and most ethically advanced wathans, the people supposed a process of \"passing on\", comparable to the Indian religious concept of Moksha. With this in mind, they traveled the universe, placing wathan generators on worlds that could host wathans, thereby creating other sentient species. Once they created a species they determined they could trust, they tasked them with creating more sapient species after the whole of their own species had \"passed on\". This cycle occurred several times until the creation of humanity.\n\nHumanity's creators are a race of aliens known, among their human allies, as \"the Ethicals\", who brought Wathan technology to Earth, installing both a generator to produce Wathans and a collector to catch and store Wathans—and the human personas and memories accumulated by them—for later retrieval. The only Ethical seen in the stories is Monat Graatut, who poses as an ally and friend of Richard Francis Burton. The reason given for the collector was that humans were both extraordinarily civilized (capable of \"passing on\" within a single lifetime, as did Gautama Buddha), and extraordinarily barbaric (capable of genocide, slavery etc.), and therefore might or might not be trusted with Wathan technology; an ambiguity meant for resolution by the Riverworld. Children who died before age five are resurrected on a \"Gardenworld\": a physical paradise where the children were raised as Ethicals, who later created the Riverworld in hope of stimulating moral contemplation. The repetitive physical environment was to encourage a concern with inward rather than outward circumstances, while the poverty of natural resources was to prevent the development of a higher technology, and the food provided by the grails, the presence of abundant water and potential shelter, and the resurrections were to obviate economy. Alcohol, marijuana, and the LSD-like dreamgum were provided for recreational purposes and to assist contemplation.\n\nPeter Jairus Frigate is a fictionalized version of the science fiction author Philip José Farmer, which appeared in his Riverworld series of novels. Confusingly, it is only starting in the third volume \"The Dark Design\" that the true Peter Jairus Frigate appears – the one in the earlier volumes was in fact an impostor. Note that in Farmer's other major series of books, \"World of Tiers\", a major character also has the same initials as the author: Paul Janus Finnegan who usually goes by the nickname \"Kickaha\". This character is also a fictionalized (or one imagines an idealized) version of the author.\n\nSince the publication of the original books, several authors have been licensed to use the \"Riverworld\" setting for their own stories - see \"Works\" towards the top of this page.\n\nA licensed guidebook outlining the setting for use in the GURPS role-playing game, \"GURPS Riverworld\" was released by Steve Jackson Games. Copies of this guidebook were provided to the authors of the stories published in \"Tales of Riverworld\" and \"Quest To Riverworld\", as this book summarizes the chronology, characters, geography and technical details of the Riverworld universe.\n\nA television series loosely based on the \"Riverworld\" saga went into production for the Sci-Fi channel in 2001 but only the feature-length pilot episode \"Riverworld\" was completed. It was first aired in 2003. It used elements from \"To Your Scattered Bodies Go\" and \"The Fabulous Riverboat\", though it replaced the books' hero, Sir Richard Francis Burton, with an American astronaut and King John of England with Nero as the villain. At one point, the pilot was available online through the Joost software worldwide except in the United States and Canada. It can be found on the Alliance Atlantis Sci-Fi channel and is available on Amazon Prime.\n\nIn 2010, a 4-hour TV movie, \"Riverworld\" was produced and released by Syfy (formerly The Sci-fi Channel) in the US and by Studio Universal elsewhere, written by Robert Hewitt Wolfe. The protagonist is Matt Ellman, an American war reporter, played by Tahmoh Penikett. The main villain is Richard Francis Burton, who ironically was one of the prime heroes in the novels.\n\nA PC computer game version of \"Riverworld\" was released in October 1998 by Cryo Interactive. The soundtrack was by Stéphane Picq and published as a CD by Shooting Star Music.\n\nSome stories written by fans and taking place in the \"Riverworld\" universe have been published through the official Philip José Farmer Web site.\n\nAntoine Ruiz, from Université d'Avignon (France) wrote a master's degree memoir entitled \"Redemption in Philip José Farmer's Riverworld\" in 1995. This work is available online on the Official PJ Farmer Home Page.\n\n"}
{"id": "23504914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23504914", "title": "Robostrider", "text": "Robostrider\n\nRobostrider is a self-propelled robot which uses similar mechanisms to real water striders in order to glide along the surface of the water. It was developed at Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nRobostrider does not break the surface layer of the water despite leg speeds of it generates both capillary waves and vortices while in motion, as do Gerridae. Hu and Bush state that Robostrider moves \"in a style less elegant than its natural counterpart\" but point out that it can cover in five strides, with one winding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4878578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4878578", "title": "Sergeant Stubby", "text": "Sergeant Stubby\n\nSergeant Stubby (1916 – March 16, 1926) was a dog who is the official mascot of the 102nd Infantry Regiment (United States) and was assigned to the 26th (Yankee) Division in World War I. He served for 18 months and participated in seventeen battles on the Western Front. He saved his regiment from surprise mustard gas attacks, found and comforted the wounded, and once caught a German soldier by the seat of his pants, holding him there until American soldiers found him. His actions were well-documented in contemporary American newspapers.\n\nStubby has been called the most decorated war dog of World War I, and the only dog to be nominated for rank and then promoted to sergeant through combat, a claim having no official documentary evidence, but recognized in connection with an exhibition at the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nStubby is the subject of a .\n\nStubby was described in contemporaneous news items as a Bull Terrier or Boston Terrier. Describing him as a dog of \"uncertain breed\", Ann Bausum wrote that \"The brindle-patterned pup probably owed at least some of his parentage to the evolving family of Boston Terriers, a breed so new that even its name was in flux: Boston Round Heads, American Bull Terriers, and Boston Bull Terriers.\" Stubby was found wandering the grounds of the Yale University campus in New Haven, Connecticut in July 1917, while members of the 102nd Infantry were training. The dog hung around as the men drilled and one soldier, Corporal Robert Conroy, developed a fondness for him. When it came time for the outfit to ship out, Conroy hid Stubby on board the troop ship. As they were getting off the ship in France, he hid Stubby under his overcoat without detection. Upon discovery by Conroy's commanding officer, Stubby saluted him as he had been trained to in camp, and the commanding officer allowed the dog to stay on board.\n\nStubby served with the 102nd Infantry Regiment in the trenches in France for 8 months and participated in four offensives and 17 battles. He entered combat on February 5, 1918, at Chemin des Dames, north of Soissons, and was under constant fire, day and night for over a month. In April 1918, during a raid to take Seicheprey, Stubby was wounded in the foreleg by the retreating Germans throwing hand grenades. He was sent to the rear for convalescence, and as he had done on the front was able to improve morale. When he recovered from his wounds, Stubby returned to the trenches. He ultimately had two wound stripes.\n\nIn his first year of battle Stubby was injured by mustard gas. After he recovered, he returned with a specially designed gas mask to protect him. Also, he learned to warn his unit of poison gas attacks, located wounded soldiers in no man's land, and—since he could hear the whine of incoming artillery shells before humans—became very adept at letting his unit know when to duck for cover. He was solely responsible for capturing a German spy in the Argonne, leading to the commander of the 102 Infantry to nominate Stubby for the rank of sergeant. However, whether Stubby was actually promoted or even an official member of the Army has been disputed. Following the retaking of Château-Thierry by the US, the women of the town made Stubby a chamois coat on which were pinned his many medals. He also helped free a French town from the Germans. He was later injured in the chest and leg by a grenade. At the end of the war, Robert Conroy smuggled Stubby home.\n\nAfter returning home, Stubby became a celebrity and marched in, and normally led, many parades across the country. He met Presidents Woodrow Wilson, Calvin Coolidge, and Warren G. Harding. In 1921 General John J. Pershing presented a gold medal from the Humane Education Society to Stubby, which was the subject of a famous photograph. Starting in 1921, he attended Georgetown University Law Center with Conroy, and became the Georgetown Hoyas' team mascot. He would be given the football at halftime and would nudge the ball around the field to the amusement of the fans.\n\nStubby died in his sleep in 1926. After his death, he was preserved with his skin mounted on a plaster cast. Conroy presented Stubby to the Smithsonian in 1956.\n\nStubby received an obituary in the \"New York Times\" following his death in 1926. The obituary was half a page, which was much longer than the obituaries of many notable people of the time.\n\nStubby was the subject of a portrait by \"Capitol artist\" Charles Ayer Whipple. He was featured in the \"Brave Beasts\" exhibit at the Legermuseum in Delft, The Netherlands July 18, 2008 – April 13, 2009. During a ceremony held on Armistice Day in 2006, a brick was placed in the Walk of Honor at the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City to commemorate Sergeant Stubby. Stubby was the subject of at least four books. In 2014, BBC Schools World War One series used Stubby as a Famous Figure to help teach children about the war, along with creating an animated comic strip to illustrate his life.\n\nStubby has his portrait on display at the West Haven Military Museum in Connecticut.\n\n\"\" is an animated feature-length film based on the life and times of Stubby, which was theatrically released on April 13, 2018. The film features the voices of Logan Lerman, Helena Bonham Carter, and Gérard Depardieu, with music by Academy Award nominee Patrick Doyle. The animation was made by the studio Mikros Image. It has also been endorsed as an official project of the United States World War I Centennial Commission.\n\nThe descendants of Robert Conroy (Stubby's inseparable companion) dedicated a life-size bronze statue of Stubby named \"Stubby Salutes\", by Susan Bahary, in the Connecticut Trees of Honor Memorial at Veteran's Memorial Park in Middletown, Connecticut in May 2018. The statue pays tribute to fallen Connecticut veterans. Both Stubby and Robert Conroy were from Connecticut.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146311", "title": "Shock (circulatory)", "text": "Shock (circulatory)\n\nShock is the state of not enough blood flow to the tissues of the body as a result of problems with the circulatory system. Initial symptoms may include weakness, fast heart rate, fast breathing, sweating, anxiety, and increased thirst. This may be followed by confusion, unconsciousness, or cardiac arrest as complications worsen.\nShock is divided into four main types based on the underlying cause: low volume, cardiogenic, obstructive, and distributive shock. Low volume shock may be from bleeding, vomiting, or pancreatitis. Cardiogenic shock may be due to a heart attack or cardiac contusion. Obstructive shock may be due to cardiac tamponade or a tension pneumothorax. Distributed shock may be due to sepsis, spinal cord injury, or certain overdoses.\nThe diagnosis is generally based on a combination of symptoms, physical examination, and laboratory tests. A decreased pulse pressure (systolic blood pressure minus diastolic blood pressure) or a fast heart rate raises concerns. The heart rate divided by systolic blood pressure, known as the shock index (SI), of greater than 0.8 supports the diagnosis more than low blood pressure or a fast heart rate in isolation.\nTreatment of shock is based on the likely underlying cause. An open airway and sufficient breathing should be established. Any ongoing bleeding should be stopped, which may require surgery or embolization. Intravenous fluid, such as Ringer's lactate or packed red blood cells, is often given. Efforts to maintain a normal body temperature are also important. Vasopressors may be useful in certain cases. Shock is both common and has a high risk of death. In the United States about 1.2 million people present to the emergency room each year with shock and their risk of death is between 20 and 50%.\nThe presentation of shock is variable with some people having only minimal symptoms such as confusion and weakness. While the general signs for all types of shock are low blood pressure, decreased urine output, and confusion, these may not always be present. While a fast heart rate is common, those on β-blockers, those who are athletic and in 30% of cases of those with shock due to intra abdominal bleeding may have a normal or slow heart rate. Specific subtypes of shock may have additional symptoms.\n\nHypovolemia is a direct loss of effective circulating blood volume leading to:\n\nThe severity of hemorrhagic shock can be graded on a 1–4 scale on the physical signs. This approximates to the effective loss of blood volume. The \"shock index\" (heart rate divided by systolic blood pressure) is a stronger predictor of the impact of blood loss than heart rate and blood pressure alone. This relationship has not been well established in pregnancy-related bleeding.\n\nSymptoms of cardiogenic shock include:\n\nObstructive shock includes cardiac tamponade, pulmonary embolism, and tension pneumothorax.\n\nDistributive shock includes infectious, anaphylactic, endocrine (e.g., adrenal insufficiency), salicylate toxicity, and neurogenic causes. The SIRS features typically occur in early septic shock.\n\nMain manifestations are produced due to massive release of histamine which causes intense dilation of the blood vessels. People with septic shock will also likely be positive for the SIRS criteria. The most generally accepted treatment for these patients is early recognition of symptoms, and early administration of broad spectrum and organism specific antibiotics.\n\nShock is a common end point of many medical conditions. It has been divided into four main types based on the underlying cause: hypovolemic, distributive, cardiogenic, and obstructive. A few additional classifications are occasionally used including: endocrinologic shock.\n\nHypovolemic shock is the most common type of shock and is caused by insufficient circulating volume. Its primary cause is haemorrhage (internal or external), or loss of fluid from the circulation. Vomiting and diarrhea are the most common cause in children. Other causes include burns, environmental exposure, and excess urine loss due to diabetic ketoacidosis and diabetes insipidus.\n\nCardiogenic shock is caused by the failure of the heart to pump effectively. This can be due to damage to the heart muscle, most often from a large myocardial infarction. Other causes of cardiogenic shock include dysrhythmias, cardiomyopathy/myocarditis, congestive heart failure (CHF), contusio cordis, or valvular heart disease problems.\n\nObstructive shock is due to obstruction of blood flow outside of the heart. Several conditions can result in this form of shock.\n\nDistributive shock is due to impaired utilization of oxygen and thus production of energy by the cell. Examples of this form of shock are:\n\nBased on endocrine disturbances such as:\n\nThere are four stages of shock. As it is a complex and continuous condition there is no sudden transition from one stage to the next. At a cellular level, shock is the process of oxygen demand becoming greater than oxygen supply.\n\nOne of the key dangers of shock is that it progresses by a positive feedback mechanism. Poor blood supply leads to cellular damage, which results in an inflammatory response to increase blood flow to the affected area. This is normally very useful to match up blood supply level with tissue demand for nutrients. However, if enough tissue causes this, it will deprive vital nutrients from other parts of the body. Additionally, the ability of the circulatory system to meet this increase in demand causes saturation, and this is a major result, of which other parts of the body begin to respond in a similar way; thus, exacerbating the problem. Due to this chain of events, immediate treatment of shock is critical for survival.\n\nDuring this stage, the state of hypoperfusion causes hypoxia. Due to the lack of oxygen, the cells perform lactic acid fermentation. Since oxygen, the terminal electron acceptor in the electron transport chain, is not abundant, this slows down entry of pyruvate into the Krebs cycle, resulting in its accumulation. Accumulating pyruvate is converted to lactate by lactate dehydrogenase and hence lactate accumulates (causing lactic acidosis).\n\nThis stage is characterised by the body employing physiological mechanisms, including neural, hormonal and bio-chemical mechanisms in an attempt to reverse the condition. As a result of the acidosis, the person will begin to hyperventilate in order to rid the body of carbon dioxide (CO). CO indirectly acts to acidify the blood and by removing it the body is attempting to raise the pH of the blood. The baroreceptors in the arteries detect the resulting hypotension, and cause the release of epinephrine and norepinephrine. Norepinephrine causes predominately vasoconstriction with a mild increase in heart rate, whereas epinephrine predominately causes an increase in heart rate with a small effect on the vascular tone; the combined effect results in an increase in blood pressure. The renin–angiotensin axis is activated, and arginine vasopressin (Anti-diuretic hormone; ADH) is released to conserve fluid via the kidneys. These hormones cause the vasoconstriction of the kidneys, gastrointestinal tract, and other organs to divert blood to the heart, lungs and brain. The lack of blood to the renal system causes the characteristic low urine production. However the effects of the renin–angiotensin axis take time and are of little importance to the immediate homeostatic mediation of shock.\n\nShould the cause of the crisis not be successfully treated, the shock will proceed to the progressive stage and the compensatory mechanisms begin to fail. Due to the decreased perfusion of the cells, sodium ions build up within while potassium ions leak out. As anaerobic metabolism continues, increasing the body's metabolic acidosis, the arteriolar smooth muscle and precapillary sphincters relax such that blood remains in the capillaries. Due to this, the hydrostatic pressure will increase and, combined with histamine release, this will lead to leakage of fluid and protein into the surrounding tissues. As this fluid is lost, the blood concentration and viscosity increase, causing sludging of the micro-circulation. The prolonged vasoconstriction will also cause the vital organs to be compromised due to reduced perfusion. If the bowel becomes sufficiently ischemic, bacteria may enter the blood stream, resulting in the increased complication of endotoxic shock.\n\nAt this stage, the vital organs have failed and the shock can no longer be reversed. Brain damage and cell death are occurring, and death will occur imminently. One of the primary reasons that shock is irreversible at this point is that much cellular ATP has been degraded into adenosine in the absence of oxygen as an electron receptor in the mitochondrial matrix. Adenosine easily perfuses out of cellular membranes into extracellular fluid, furthering capillary vasodilation, and then is transformed into uric acid. Because cells can only produce adenosine at a rate of about 2% of the cell's total need per hour, even restoring oxygen is futile at this point because there is no adenosine to phosphorylate into ATP.\n\nThe first change seen in shock is an increased cardiac output followed by a decrease in mixed venous oxygen saturation (SmvO2) as measured in the pulmonary artery via a pulmonary artery catheter. Central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2) as measured via a central line correlates well with SmvO2 and are easier to acquire. If shock progresses anaerobic metabolism will begin to occur with an increased blood lactic acid as the result. While many laboratory tests are typically performed there is no test that either makes or excludes the diagnosis. A chest X-ray or emergency department ultrasound may be useful to determine volume state.\n\nThe best evidence exists for the treatment of septic shock in adults and as the pathophysiology appears similar in children and other types of shock treatment this has been extrapolated to these areas. Management may include securing the airway via intubation if necessary to decrease the work of breathing and for guarding against respiratory arrest. Oxygen supplementation, intravenous fluids, passive leg raising (not Trendelenburg position) should be started and blood transfusions added if blood loss is severe. It is important to keep the person warm as well as adequately manage pain and anxiety as these can increase oxygen consumption.\n\nAggressive intravenous fluids are recommended in most types of shock (e.g. 1–2 liter normal saline bolus over 10 minutes or 20 ml/kg in a child) which is usually instituted as the person is being further evaluated. Which intravenous fluid is superior, colloids or crystalloids, remains undetermined. Thus as crystalloids are less expensive they are recommended. If the person remains in shock after initial resuscitation packed red blood cells should be administered to keep the hemoglobin greater than 100 g/l.\n\nFor those with haemorrhagic shock the current evidence supports limiting the use of fluids for penetrating thorax and abdominal injuries allowing mild hypotension to persist (known as permissive hypotension). Targets include a mean arterial pressure of 60 mmHg, a systolic blood pressure of 70–90 mmHg, or until their adequate mentation and peripheral pulses. Hypertonic fluid may also be an option in this group.\n\nVasopressors may be used if blood pressure does not improve with fluids. There is no evidence of substantial superiority of one vasopressor over another; however, using dopamine leads to an increased risk of arrythmia when compared with norepinephrine. Vasopressors have not been found to improve outcomes when used for hemorrhagic shock from trauma but may be of use in neurogenic shock. Activated protein C (Xigris) while once aggressively promoted for the management of septic shock has been found not to improve survival and is associated with a number of complications. Xigris was withdrawn from the market in 2011, and clinical trials were discontinued. The use of sodium bicarbonate is controversial as it has not been shown to improve outcomes. If used at all it should only be considered if the pH is less than 7.0.\n\n\nThe goal of treatment is to achieve a urine output of greater than 0.5 ml/kg/h, a central venous pressure of 8–12 mmHg and a mean arterial pressure of 65–95 mmHg. In trauma the goal is to stop the bleeding which in many cases requires surgical interventions.\n\nHaemorrhagic shock occurs in about 1–2% of trauma cases. Up to one-third of people admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) are in circulatory shock. Of these, cardiogenic shock accounts for approximately 20%, hypovolemic about 20%, and septic shock about 60% of cases.\n\nThe prognosis of shock depends on the underlying cause and the nature and extent of concurrent problems. Hypovolemic, anaphylactic and neurogenic shock are readily treatable and respond well to medical therapy. Septic shock however, is a grave condition with a mortality rate between 30% and 50%. The prognosis of cardiogenic shock is even worse with a mortality rate between 70% and 90%.\n\nIn 1972 Hinshaw and Cox suggested the classification system for shock which is still used today.\n"}
{"id": "1472988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1472988", "title": "Spirit guide", "text": "Spirit guide\n\nA spirit guide, in western spiritualism, is an entity that remains as a disincarnate spirit to act as a guide or protector to a living incarnated human being.\n\nAccording to theosophical doctrine, spirit guides are not always of human descent. Some spirit guides live as energy, in the cosmic realm, or as light beings, which are very high level spirit guides. Some spirit guides are persons who have lived many former lifetimes, paid their karmic debts, and advanced beyond a need to reincarnate. Many devotees believe that spirit guides are chosen on \"the other side\" by human beings who are about to incarnate and wish assistance.\n\nSome early modern Spiritualists did not favor the idea of spirit guides. Spiritualist author and medium E.W. Wallis, writing in \"A Guide to Mediumship and Psychic Unfoldment\", expressed an opinion that the notion of spirit guides is disempowering and disrespectful to both spirits and living people. He does not deny that seeking people may be helped by spirits here and there, but decries the idea that said spirits are appointed or assigned to do nothing but help the living. He advises would-be mediums to steer clear of the notion that they are being \"guided\" unless they have demonstrable proof that such is the case.\n\nTheresa Caputo, The Long Island Medium, simply calls her guide \"Spirit\", describing it as an entity that she has been able to sense since she was four years old.\n\nAmerican Spiritualists of the 19th and 20th centuries often described their guides as resembling Native Americans. One popular spirit guide of this type, encountered by many Anglo-American Spiritualists, was named White Hawk. Among African-American Spiritualists, especially those in churches that were founded by or influenced by Mother Leafy Anderson, the Native American guide was named Black Hawk, and was presumed to be the spirit of the Sac tribe warrior of the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "13665660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13665660", "title": "SuccessTech Academy shooting", "text": "SuccessTech Academy shooting\n\nThe SuccessTech Academy shooting was a school shooting that occurred on October 10, 2007, at the SuccessTech alternative high school in Cleveland, Ohio, United States. Fourteen-year-old freshman Asa H. Coon shot two students and two teachers before committing suicide on the fourth floor of the building.\n\nOn Wednesday, October 10, 2007, Asa H. Coon entered the five-story school building shortly before 1:00 p.m. EST, armed with two handguns (a .22-caliber revolver and a .38-caliber revolver), and a box of additional rounds of ammunition for each pistol; three folding knives were also in Coon's possession, which were all stocked together in a duffel bag. Wearing a Marilyn Manson concert shirt, black jeans, and black-painted fingernails, Coon walked to the fourth floor of the building and entered the men's washroom where he loaded two revolvers. \n\nThe shooting began at approximately 1:06 p.m. on the fourth floor of the building, after 14-year-old Michael Peek punched Coon in the face for bumping into him. When Peek walked away, Coon shot him in the abdomen. Another student, 17-year-old Darnell Rodgers, suffered a graze gunshot wound to the elbow in the same hallway. Michael Grassie, a social studies teacher, was shot in the chest when Coon entered his classroom. A second teacher, David Kachadourian, was shot in the back of his shoulder while in the hallway evacuating his students. During the entire shooting, Coon was said to be cursing. The shooting ended when Coon entered another room and fatally shot himself in the right side of his head.\n\nThe school was placed on Code Blue lockdown shortly after the shooting. The two injured teachers were treated at MetroHealth Medical Center, and the two students injured were treated at the Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital. A 14-year-old student, Trinnetta McGrady, was also hospitalized for knee and back injuries received from being trampled in a hallway by fleeing students. Kachadourian and Rodgers were discharged later that day, while Peek and McGrady were released the following day. Grassie was discharged from MetroHealth Medical Center on October 15.\n\nAsa Coon had been placed on a three-day suspension two days prior to the shooting for an altercation with another student regarding the existence of God. According to Coon's uncle, Larry Looney, Coon said he was upset because the teachers would not listen to what he had to say regarding the fight. According to fellow students and teachers, Coon had apparently been the target of bullying by students at the school for his Gothic-appearance and eccentric behavior, and had made threats of violence in front of students and teachers the week before the shooting. Joseph Fletcher, a friend of Coon, said he had been \"pushed too far\" and that teachers were unable to help with his problems. Michael Grassie, who was one of Coon's teachers, said that Coon was frustrated because he was given a failing grade in his World History class, and had made attempts to urge him into a fight. Juvenile Court records show that Coon had a criminal history and mental health problems since 2005, and threatened to commit suicide while in a mental health facility in summer 2006.\n\nAt 2:50 p.m., an hour-and-a-half after the shooting, Cleveland Mayor Frank G. Jackson announced in a news conference that five people, including three students, were hurt in a shooting at the SuccessTech Academy. Four of them having been shot; the students being in \"stable\" condition and the adults being in a more \"elevated\" state.\n\nClasses throughout the Cleveland Metropolitan School District were canceled the following two days (resumed on Monday, October 15), and classes at SuccessTech Academy did not resume until Tuesday, October 16. Cleveland's public school system established an anonymous hotline for students to report threats and dangerous behavior. The school system also announced plans to install metal detectors in all its schools and hire additional armed security guards to patrol the campuses, These changes are estimated to cost the district US$3.3 million. Schools were instructed to implement additional security precautions, to be reviewed by a professional security firm.\nA crime scene photo taken of Coon after his suicide was posted by Cleveland disc jockey Shane French (Rover) on a webpage promoting \"Rover's Morning Glory\" and soon taken down. Mayor Jackson called the photo, which he didn't see, \"extremely inappropriate\". Cleveland police officer Walter Emerick, who took the picture using his cell phone camera, was suspended from duty for eight days for sending the photo to other people, who eventually leaked it to the Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "1516915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516915", "title": "Swine influenza", "text": "Swine influenza\n\nSwine influenza is an infection caused by any one of several types of swine influenza viruses. Swine influenza virus (SIV) or swine-origin influenza virus (S-OIV) is any strain of the influenza family of viruses that is endemic in pigs. As of 2009, the known SIV strains include influenza C and the subtypes of influenza A known as H1N1, H1N2, H2N1, H3N1, H3N2, and H2N3.\n\nThe Swine flu was initially seen in humans in Mexico in 2009, where the strain of the particular virus was a mixture from 3 types of strains. Six of the genes are very similar to the H1N2 influenza virus that was found in pigs around 2000.\n\nSwine influenza virus is common throughout pig populations worldwide. Transmission of the virus from pigs to humans is not common and does not always lead to human flu, often resulting only in the production of antibodies in the blood. If transmission does cause human flu, it is called zoonotic swine flu. People with regular exposure to pigs are at increased risk of swine flu infection.\n\nAround the mid-20th century, identification of influenza subtypes became possible, allowing accurate diagnosis of transmission to humans. Since then, only 50 such transmissions have been confirmed. These strains of swine flu rarely pass from human to human. Symptoms of zoonotic swine flu in humans are similar to those of influenza and of influenza-like illness in general, namely chills, fever, sore throat, muscle pains, severe headache, coughing, weakness, shortness of breath, and general discomfort.\n\nIn August 2010, the World Health Organization declared the swine flu pandemic officially over.\n\nCases of swine flu have been reported in India, with over 31,156 positive test cases and 1,841 deaths up to March 2015.\n\nIn swine, an influenza infection produces fever, lethargy, sneezing, coughing, difficulty breathing and decreased appetite. In some cases the infection can cause miscarriage. Although mortality is usually low (around 1–4%), the virus can produce weight loss and poor growth, causing economic loss to farmers. Infected pigs can lose up to 12 pounds of body weight over a three- to four-week period. Swine have receptors to which both avian and mammalian influenza viruses are able to bind to, which leads to the virus being able to evolve and mutate into different forms. Influenza A is responsible for infecting swine, and was first identified in the summer of 1918. Pigs have often been seen as \"mixing vessels\", which help to change and evolve strains of disease that are then passed on to other mammals, such as humans.\n\nDirect transmission of a swine flu virus from pigs to humans is occasionally possible (zoonotic swine flu). In all, 50 cases are known to have occurred since the first report in medical literature in 1958, which have resulted in a total of six deaths. Of these six people, one was pregnant, one had leukemia, one had Hodgkin's lymphoma and two were known to be previously healthy. One of these had unknown whereabouts. Despite these apparently low numbers of infections, the true rate of infection may be higher, since most cases only cause a very mild disease, and will probably never be reported or diagnosed.\nAccording to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in humans the symptoms of the 2009 \"swine flu\" H1N1 virus are similar to those of influenza and of influenza-like illness in general. Symptoms include fever; cough, sore throat, watery eyes, body aches, shortness of breath, headache, weight loss, chills, sneezing, runny nose, coughing, dizziness, abdominal pain, lack of appetite and fatigue. The 2009 outbreak has shown an increased percentage of patients reporting diarrhea and vomiting as well. The 2009 H1N1 virus is not zoonotic swine flu, as it is not transmitted from pigs to humans, but from person to person through airborne droplets.\n\nBecause these symptoms are not specific to swine flu, a differential diagnosis of \"probable\" swine flu requires not only symptoms, but also a high likelihood of swine flu due to the person's recent and past medical history. For example, during the 2009 swine flu outbreak in the United States, the CDC advised physicians to \"consider swine influenza infection in the differential diagnosis of patients with acute febrile respiratory illness who have either been in contact with persons with confirmed swine flu, or who were in one of the five U.S. states that have reported swine flu cases or in Mexico during the seven days preceding their illness onset.\" A diagnosis of \"confirmed\" swine flu requires laboratory testing of a respiratory sample (a simple nose and throat swab).\n\nThe most common cause of death is respiratory failure. Other causes of death are pneumonia (leading to sepsis), high fever (leading to neurological problems), dehydration (from excessive vomiting and diarrhea), electrolyte imbalance and kidney failure. Fatalities are more likely in young children and the elderly.\n\nInfluenza is quite common in pigs, with about half of breeding pigs having been exposed to the virus in the US. Antibodies to the virus are also common in pigs in other countries.\n\nThe main route of transmission is through direct contact between infected and uninfected animals. These close contacts are particularly common during animal transport. Intensive farming may also increase the risk of transmission, as the pigs are raised in very close proximity to each other. The direct transfer of the virus probably occurs either by pigs touching noses, or through dried mucus. Airborne transmission through the aerosols produced by pigs coughing or sneezing are also an important means of infection. The virus usually spreads quickly through a herd, infecting all the pigs within just a few days. Transmission may also occur through wild animals, such as wild boar, which can spread the disease between farms.\n\nPeople who work with poultry and swine, especially those with intense exposures, are at increased risk of zoonotic infection with influenza virus endemic in these animals, and constitute a population of human hosts in which zoonosis and reassortment can co-occur. Vaccination of these workers against influenza and surveillance for new influenza strains among this population may therefore be an important public health measure. Transmission of influenza from swine to humans who work with swine was documented in a small surveillance study performed in 2004 at the University of Iowa. This study, among others, forms the basis of a recommendation that people whose jobs involve handling poultry and swine be the focus of increased public health surveillance. Other professions at particular risk of infection are veterinarians and meat processing workers, although the risk of infection for both of these groups is lower than that of farm workers.\n\nPigs are unusual as they can be infected with influenza strains that usually infect three different species: pigs, birds and humans. This makes pigs a host where influenza viruses might exchange genes, producing new and dangerous strains. Avian influenza virus H3N2 is endemic in pigs in China, and has been detected in pigs in Vietnam, increasing fears of the emergence of new variant strains. H3N2 evolved from H2N2 by antigenic shift. In August 2004, researchers in China found H5N1 in pigs.\n\nThese H5N1 infections may be quite common; in a survey of 10 apparently healthy pigs housed near poultry farms in West Java, where avian flu had broken out, five of the pig samples contained the H5N1 virus. The Indonesian government has since found similar results in the same region. Additional tests of 150 pigs outside the area were negative.\n\nThe influenza virion is \nroughly spherical. It is an enveloped virus; the outer layer is a lipid membrane which is taken from the host cell in which the virus multiplies. Inserted into the lipid membrane are \"spikes\", which are proteins—actually glycoproteins, because they consist of protein linked to sugars—known as HA (hemagglutinin) and NA (neuraminidase). These are the proteins that determine the subtype of influenza virus (A/H1N1, for example). The HA and NA are important in the immune response against the virus; antibodies (proteins made to combat infection) against these spikes may protect against infection. The NA protein is the target of the antiviral drugs Relenza and Tamiflu. Also embedded in the lipid membrane is the M2 protein, which is the target of the antiviral adamantanes amantadine and rimantadine.\n\nOf the three genera of influenza viruses that cause human flu, two also cause influenza in pigs, with influenza A being common in pigs and influenza C being rare. Influenza B has not been reported in pigs. Within influenza A and influenza C, the strains found in pigs and humans are largely distinct, although because of reassortment there have been transfers of genes among strains crossing swine, avian, and human species boundaries.\n\nInfluenza viruses infect both humans and pigs, but do not infect birds. Transmission between pigs and humans have occurred in the past. For example, influenza C caused small outbreaks of a mild form of influenza amongst children in Japan and California. Because of its limited host range and the lack of genetic diversity in influenza C, this form of influenza does not cause pandemics in humans.\n\nSwine influenza is caused by influenza A subtypes H1N1, H1N2, H2N3, H3N1, and H3N2. In pigs, four influenza A virus subtypes (H1N1, H1N2, H3N2 and H7N9) are the most common strains worldwide. In the United States, the H1N1 subtype was exclusively prevalent among swine populations before 1998; however, since late August 1998, H3N2 subtypes have been isolated from pigs. As of 2004, H3N2 virus isolates in US swine and turkey stocks were triple reassortants, containing genes from human (HA, NA, and PB1), swine (NS, NP, and M), and avian (PB2 and PA) lineages. In August 2012, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed 145 human cases (113 in Indiana, 30 in Ohio, one in Hawaii and one in Illinois) of H3N2v since July 2012. The death of a 61-year-old Madison County, Ohio woman is the first in the nation associated with a new swine flu strain. She contracted the illness after having contact with hogs at the Ross County Fair.\n\nThe CDC recommends real-time PCR as the method of choice for diagnosing H1N1. The oral or nasal fluid collection and RNA virus preserving filter paper card is commercially available. This method allows a specific diagnosis of novel influenza (H1N1) as opposed to seasonal influenza. Near-patient point-of-care tests are in development.\n\nPrevention of swine influenza has three components: prevention in pigs, prevention of transmission to humans, and prevention of its spread among humans.\n\nMethods of preventing the spread of influenza among swine include facility management, herd management, and vaccination (ATCvet code: ). Because much of the illness and death associated with swine flu involves secondary infection by other pathogens, control strategies that rely on vaccination may be insufficient.\n\nControl of swine influenza by vaccination has become more difficult in recent decades, as the evolution of the virus has resulted in inconsistent responses to traditional vaccines. Standard commercial swine flu vaccines are effective in controlling the infection when the virus strains match enough to have significant cross-protection, and custom (autogenous) vaccines made from the specific viruses isolated are created and used in the more difficult cases.\nPresent vaccination strategies for SIV control and prevention in swine farms typically include the use of one of several bivalent SIV vaccines commercially available in the United States. Of the 97 recent H3N2 isolates examined, only 41 isolates had strong serologic cross-reactions with antiserum to three commercial SIV vaccines. Since the protective ability of influenza vaccines depends primarily on the closeness of the match between the vaccine virus and the epidemic virus, the presence of nonreactive H3N2 SIV variants suggests current commercial vaccines might not effectively protect pigs from infection with a majority of H3N2 viruses. The United States Department of Agriculture researchers say while pig vaccination keeps pigs from getting sick, it does not block infection or shedding of the virus.\n\nFacility management includes using disinfectants and ambient temperature to control viruses in the environment. They are unlikely to survive outside living cells for more than two weeks, except in cold (but above freezing) conditions, and are readily inactivated by disinfectants. Herd management includes not adding pigs carrying influenza to herds that have not been exposed to the virus. The virus survives in healthy carrier pigs for up to three months, and can be recovered from them between outbreaks. Carrier pigs are usually responsible for the introduction of SIV into previously uninfected herds and countries, so new animals should be quarantined. After an outbreak, as immunity in exposed pigs wanes, new outbreaks of the same strain can occur.\n\n Swine can be infected by both avian and human flu strains of influenza, and therefore are hosts where the antigenic shifts can occur that create new influenza strains.\n\nThe transmission from swine to humans is believed to occur mainly in swine farms, where farmers are in close contact with live pigs. Although strains of swine influenza are usually not able to infect humans, this may occasionally happen, so farmers and veterinarians are encouraged to use face masks when dealing with infected animals. The use of vaccines on swine to prevent their infection is a major method of limiting swine-to-human transmission. Risk factors that may contribute to swine-to-human transmission include smoking and, especially, not wearing gloves when working with sick animals, thereby increasing the likelihood of subsequent hand-to-eye, hand-to-nose or hand-to-mouth transmission.\n\nInfluenza spreads between humans when infected people cough or sneeze, then other people breathe in the virus or touch something with the virus on it and then touch their own face. \"Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth. Germs spread this way.\" Swine flu cannot be spread by pork products, since the virus is not transmitted through food. The swine flu in humans is most contagious during the first five days of the illness, although some people, most commonly children, can remain contagious for up to ten days. Diagnosis can be made by sending a specimen, collected during the first five days, for analysis.\n\nRecommendations to prevent spread of the virus among humans include using standard infection control, which includes frequent washing of hands with soap and water or with alcohol-based hand sanitizers, especially after being out in public. Chance of transmission is also reduced by disinfecting household surfaces, which can be done effectively with a diluted chlorine bleach solution.\n\nExperts agree hand-washing can help prevent viral infections, including ordinary and the swine flu infections. Also, avoiding touching one's eyes, nose or mouth with one's hands helps to prevent the flu. Influenza can spread in coughs or sneezes, but an increasing body of evidence shows small droplets containing the virus can linger on tabletops, telephones and other surfaces and be transferred via the fingers to the eyes, nose or mouth. Alcohol-based gel or foam hand sanitizers work well to destroy viruses and bacteria. Anyone with flu-like symptoms, such as a sudden fever, cough or muscle aches, should stay away from work or public transportation, and should contact a doctor for advice.\n\nSocial distancing, another tactic, is staying away from other people who might be infected, and can include avoiding large gatherings, spreading out a little at work, or perhaps staying home and lying low if an infection is spreading in a community. Public health and other responsible authorities have action plans which may request or require social distancing actions, depending on the severity of the outbreak.\n\nVaccines are available for different kinds of swine flu. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the new swine flu vaccine for use in the United States on September 15, 2009. Studies by the National Institutes of Health show a single dose creates enough antibodies to protect against the virus within about 10 days.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2009 pandemic, several studies were conducted to see who received influenza vaccines. These studies show that whites are much more likely to be vaccinated for seasonal influenza and for the H1N1 strain than African Americans This could be due to several factors. Historically, there has been mistrust of vaccines and of the medical community from African Americans. Many African Americans do not believe vaccines or doctors to be effective. This mistrust stems from the exploitation of the African American communities during studies like the Tuskegee study. Additionally, vaccines are typically administered in clinics, hospitals, or doctor’s offices. Many people of lower socioeconomic status are less likely to receive vaccinations because they do not have health insurance.\n\nAlthough there is no formal national surveillance system in the United States to determine what viruses are circulating in pigs, an informal surveillance network in the United States is part of a world surveillance network.\n\nAs swine influenza is rarely fatal to pigs, little treatment beyond rest and supportive care is required. Instead, veterinary efforts are focused on preventing the spread of the virus throughout the farm, or to other farms. Vaccination and animal management techniques are most important in these efforts. Antibiotics are also used to treat this disease, which although they have no effect against the influenza virus, do help prevent bacterial pneumonia and other secondary infections in influenza-weakened herds.\n\nIn Europe the avian-like H1N1 and the human-like H3N2 and H1N2 are the most common influenza subtypes in swine, of which avian-like H1N1 is the most frequent. Since 2009 another subtype, pdmH1N1(2009), emerged globally and also in European pig population. The prevalence varies from country to country but all of the subtypes are continuously circulating in swine herds. \nIn the EU region whole-virus vaccines are available which are inactivated and adjuvanted. Vaccination of sows is common practice and reveals also a benefit to young pigs by prolonging the maternally level of antibodies. Several commercial vaccines are available including a trivalent one being used in sow vaccination and a vaccine against pdmH1N1(2009). In vaccinated sows multiplication of viruses and virus shedding are significantly reduced. \n\nIf a person becomes sick with swine flu, antiviral drugs can make the illness milder and make the patient feel better faster. They may also prevent serious flu complications. For treatment, antiviral drugs work best if started soon after getting sick (within two days of symptoms). Beside antivirals, supportive care at home or in a hospital focuses on controlling fevers, relieving pain and maintaining fluid balance, as well as identifying and treating any secondary infections or other medical problems. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends the use of oseltamivir (Tamiflu) or zanamivir (Relenza) for the treatment and/or prevention of infection with swine influenza viruses; however, the majority of people infected with the virus make a full recovery without requiring medical attention or antiviral drugs. The virus isolated in the 2009 outbreak have been found resistant to amantadine and rimantadine.\n\nIn the U.S., on April 27, 2009, the FDA issued Emergency Use Authorizations to make available Relenza and Tamiflu antiviral drugs to treat the swine influenza virus in cases for which they are currently unapproved. The agency issued these EUAs to allow treatment of patients younger than the current approval allows and to allow the widespread distribution of the drugs, including by volunteers.\n\nSwine influenza was first proposed to be a disease related to human flu during the 1918 flu pandemic, when pigs became ill at the same time as humans. The first identification of an influenza virus as a cause of disease in pigs occurred about ten years later, in 1930. For the following 60 years, swine influenza strains were almost exclusively H1N1. Then, between 1997 and 2002, new strains of three different subtypes and five different genotypes emerged as causes of influenza among pigs in North America. In 1997–1998, H3N2 strains emerged. These strains, which include genes derived by reassortment from human, swine and avian viruses, have become a major cause of swine influenza in North America. Reassortment between H1N1 and H3N2 produced H1N2. In 1999 in Canada, a strain of H4N6 crossed the species barrier from birds to pigs, but was contained on a single farm.\n\nThe H1N1 form of swine flu is one of the descendants of the strain that caused the 1918 flu pandemic. As well as persisting in pigs, the descendants of the 1918 virus have also circulated in humans through the 20th century, contributing to the normal seasonal epidemics of influenza. However, direct transmission from pigs to humans is rare, with only 12 recorded cases in the U.S. since 2005. Nevertheless, the retention of influenza strains in pigs after these strains have disappeared from the human population might make pigs a reservoir where influenza viruses could persist, later emerging to reinfect humans once human immunity to these strains has waned.\n\nSwine flu has been reported numerous times as a zoonosis in humans, usually with limited distribution, rarely with a widespread distribution. Outbreaks in swine are common and cause significant economic losses in industry, primarily by causing stunting and extended time to market. For example, this disease costs the British meat industry about £65 million every year.\n\nThe 1918 flu pandemic in humans was associated with H1N1 and influenza appearing in pigs; this may reflect a zoonosis either from swine to humans, or from humans to swine. Although it is not certain in which direction the virus was transferred, some evidence suggests, in this case, pigs caught the disease from humans. For instance, swine influenza was only noted as a new disease of pigs in 1918, after the first large outbreaks of influenza amongst people. Although a recent phylogenetic analysis of more recent strains of influenza in humans, birds, animals, and many others and swine suggests the 1918 outbreak in humans followed a reassortment event within a mammal, the exact origin of the 1918 strain remains elusive. It is estimated that anywhere from 50 to 100 million people were killed worldwide.\n\nOn February 5, 1976, a United States army recruit at Fort Dix said he felt tired and weak. He died the next day, and four of his fellow soldiers were later hospitalized. Two weeks after his death, health officials announced the cause of death was a new strain of swine flu. The strain, a variant of H1N1, is known as A/New Jersey/1976 (H1N1). It was detected only from January 19 to February 9 and did not spread beyond Fort Dix.\nThis new strain appeared to be closely related to the strain involved in the 1918 flu pandemic. Moreover, the ensuing increased surveillance uncovered another strain in circulation in the U.S.: A/Victoria/75 (H3N2), which spread simultaneously, also caused illness, and persisted until March. Alarmed public health officials decided action must be taken to head off another major pandemic, and urged President Gerald Ford that every person in the U.S. be vaccinated for the disease.\n\nThe vaccination program was plagued by delays and public relations problems. On October 1, 1976, immunizations began, and three senior citizens died soon after receiving their injections. This resulted in a media outcry that linked these deaths to the immunizations, despite the lack of any proof the vaccine was the cause. According to science writer Patrick Di Justo, however, by the time the truth was known—that the deaths were not proven to be related to the vaccine—it was too late. \"The government had long feared mass panic about swine flu—now they feared mass panic about the swine flu vaccinations.\" This became a strong setback to the program.\n\nThere were reports of Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS), a paralyzing neuromuscular disorder, affecting some people who had received swine flu immunizations. Although whether a link exists is still not clear, this syndrome may be a side effect of influenza vaccines. As a result, Di Justo writes, \"the public refused to trust a government-operated health program that killed old people and crippled young people.\" In total, 48,161,019 Americans, or just over 22% of the population, had been immunized by the time the National Influenza Immunization Program was effectively halted on December 16, 1976.\nOverall, there were 1098 cases of GBS recorded nationwide by CDC surveillance, 532 of which occurred after vaccination and 543 before vaccination. About one to two cases per 100,000 people of GBS occur every year, whether or not people have been vaccinated. The vaccination program seems to have increased this normal risk of developing GBS by about to one extra case per 100,000 vaccinations.\n\nRecompensation charges were filed for over 4,000 cases of severe vaccination damage, including 25 deaths, totalling US$3.5 billion, by 1979.\nThe CDC stated most studies on modern influenza vaccines have seen no link with GBS, Although one review gives an incidence of about one case per million vaccinations, a large study in China, reported in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\", covering close to 100 million doses of H1N1 flu vaccine, found only 11 cases of GBS, which is lower than the normal rate of the disease in China: \"The risk-benefit ratio, which is what vaccines and everything in medicine is about, is overwhelmingly in favor of vaccination.\"\n\nIn September 1988, a swine flu virus killed one woman and infected others. A 32-year-old woman, Barbara Ann Wieners, was eight months pregnant when she and her husband, Ed, became ill after visiting the hog barn at a county fair in Walworth County, Wisconsin. Barbara died eight days later, after developing pneumonia. The only pathogen identified was an H1N1 strain of swine influenza virus. Doctors were able to induce labor and deliver a healthy daughter before she died. Her husband recovered from his symptoms.\n\nInfluenza-like illness (ILI) was reportedly widespread among the pigs exhibited at the fair. Of the 25 swine exhibitors aged 9 to 19 at the fair, 19 tested positive for antibodies to SIV, but no serious illnesses were seen. The virus was able to spread between people, since one to three health care personnel who had cared for the pregnant woman developed mild, influenza-like illnesses, and antibody tests suggested they had been infected with swine flu, but there was no community outbreak.\n\nIn 1998, swine flu was found in pigs in four U.S. states. Within a year, it had spread through pig populations across the United States. Scientists found this virus had originated in pigs as a recombinant form of flu strains from birds and humans. This outbreak confirmed that pigs can serve as a crucible where novel influenza viruses emerge as a result of the reassortment of genes from different strains. Genetic components of these 1998 triple-hybrid stains would later form six out of the eight viral gene segments in the 2009 flu outbreak.\n\nOn August 20, 2007, Department of Agriculture officers investigated the outbreak of swine flu in Nueva Ecija and central Luzon, Philippines. The mortality rate is less than 10% for swine flu, unless there are complications like hog cholera. On July 27, 2007, the Philippine National Meat Inspection Service (NMIS) raised a hog cholera \"red alert\" warning over Metro Manila and five regions of Luzon after the disease spread to backyard pig farms in Bulacan and Pampanga, even if these tested negative for the swine flu virus.\n\nSince November 2009, 14 deaths as a result of swine flu in Northern Ireland have been reported. The majority of the victims were reported to have pre-existing health conditions which had lowered their immunity. This closely corresponds to the 19 patients who had died in the year prior due to swine flu, where 18 of the 19 were determined to have lowered immune systems. Because of this, many mothers who have just given birth are strongly encouraged to get a flu shot because their immune systems are vulnerable. Also, studies have shown that people between the ages of 15 and 44 have the highest rate of infection. Although most people now recover, having any conditions that lower one's immune system increases the risk of having the flu become potentially lethal. In Northern Ireland now, approximately 56% of all people under 65 who are entitled to the vaccine have gotten the shot, and the outbreak is said to be under control.\n\nSwine flu outbreaks were reported in India in late 2014 and early 2015. As of March 19, 2015 the disease has affected 31,151 people and claimed over 1,841 lives. The largest number of reported cases and deaths due to the disease occurred in the western part of India including states like Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Gujarat.\nResearchers of MIT have claimed that the swine flu has mutated in India to a more virulent version with changes in Hemagglutinin protein. This has however been disputed by Indian researchers.\n\nThere was another outbreak in India in 2017. The states of Maharashtra and Gujarat were the worst affected. Gujarat high court has given Gujarat government instructions to control deaths by swine flu. Actor Aamir Khan and wife Kiran Rao were among the latest to be afflicted by swine flu. The couple spoke about their battle with the H1N1 virus via video conference at the Satyamev Jayate Water Cup event in Pune, which they had to skip due to ill-health. More than 1094 people died of Swine flu in India in year 2017 till 26 August 2017.\n\nSwine flu outbreaks were reported in Nepal in the spring of 2015. As of April 21, 2015 the disease has claimed 26 lives in the most severely affected district, Jajarkot in Northwest Nepal. Cases were also detected in the districts of Kathmandu, Morang, Kaski, and Chitwan. As of 22 April 2015 the Nepal Ministry of Health reported that 2,498 people had been treated in Jajarkot, of whom 552 were believed to have swine flu, and acknowledged that the government's response had been inadequate. The Jajarkot outbreak had just been declared an emergency when the April 2015 Nepal earthquake struck on 25 April 2015, diverting all medical and emergency resources to quake-related rescue and recovery.\n\nSeven cases of swine flu were reported in Punjab province of Pakistan, mainly in the city of Multan, in January 2017. Cases of swine flu were also reported in Lahore and Faisalabad. \n\nAs of 16 March 2017, over a hundred confirmed cases of swine flu and at least six deaths were reported in the Maldivian capital of Male' and some other islands. Makeshift flu clinics were opened in Male'. Schools, universities and colleges in the capital were closed, prison visitations suspended, several events cancelled, and all non-essential travel to other islands outside the capital was advised against by the HPA. An influenza vaccination program focussed on pregnant women was initiated soon after. An official visit by the Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud to the Maldives during his Asian tour was also cancelled last minute amidst fears over the outbreak of swine flu.\n\nA study conducted in 2008, and published in the journal \"Nature\", has managed to establish the evolutionary origin of the flu strain of swine origin (S-OIV).\n\nThe phylogenetic origin of the flu virus that caused the 2009 pandemics can be traced before 1918. Around 1918, the ancestral virus, of avian origin, crossed the species boundaries and infected humans as human H1N1. The same phenomenon took place soon after in America, where the human virus was infecting pigs; it led to the emergence of the H1N1 swine strain, which later became the classic swine flu. However, genetic coding of H1N1 shows it is a combination of segments of 4 influenza viruses forming a novel strain–\nNorth American Swine (30.6%)- PIG ORIGIN FLU\nNorth American Avian (34.4%)– BIRD ORIGIN FLU\nHuman influenza strain (17.5%)\nEuroasian swine (17.5%)- PIG ORIGIN FLU.\nQUADRUPLE GENETIC RE-ASSORTMENT - coinfection with influenza viruses from diverse animal species.\nDue to coinfection, the viruses are able to interact, mutate, and form a new strain to which host has variable immunity.\n\nNew events of reassortment were not reported until 1968, when the avian strain H1N1 infected humans again; this time the virus met the strain H2N2, and the reassortment originated the strain H3N2. This strain has remained as a stable flu strain until now.\n\nThe mid-1970s were important for the evolution of flu strains. First, the re-emergence of the human H1N1 strain became a seasonal strain. Then, a small outbreak of swine H1N1 occurred in humans, and finally, the human H2N2 strain apparently became extinct. Around 1979, the avian H1N1 strain infected pigs and gave rise to Euroasiatic swine flu and H1N1 Euroasiatic swine virus, which is still being transmitted in swine populations.\n\nThe critical moment for the 2009 outbreak was between 1990 and 1993. A triple reassortment event in a pig host of North American H1N1 swine virus, the human H3N2 virus and avian H1N1 virus generated the swine H1N2 strain.\nFinally, the last step in S-OIV history was in 2009, when the virus H1N2 co-infected a human host at the same time as the Euroasiatic H1N1 swine strain. This led to the emergence of a new human H1N1 strain, which caused the 2009 pandemic.\n\nOn June 11, 2009, the World Health Organization raised the worldwide pandemic alert level to Phase 6 for swine flu, which is the highest alert level. This alert level means that the swine flu had spread worldwide and there were cases of people with the virus in most countries. The pandemic level identifies the spread of the disease or virus and not necessarily the severity of the disease.\n\nSwine flu spread very rapidly worldwide due to its high human-to-human transmission rate and due to the frequency of air travel.\n\nIn 2015 the instances of swine flu substantially increased to five year highs with over 10,000 cases reported and 660 deaths in India.\nThe states reporting the highest number of cases and deaths are Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, and Telangana.\nThe circulating strain of influenza being the same, unmutant strain that caused global pandemic in 2009 (A H1N1 pdm 09), the sudden spurt of the cases in the beginning of 2015 left the Indian government unexplained but concerned. Government instructed the affected states to investigate into the epidemiological reasons of such spurt in the states, and had detailed the advisory guidelines to all states. The guidelines are mainly for (a) description of A H1N1 for prompt identification, detection, and distinction from the symptoms of other similar infection such as common flu(cold) (b) categorization of screening of influenza A H1N1 cases, (c) clinical management protocol of Pandemic influenza A H1N1, (d) providing home care, (e) collection of human sample. Besides, through the National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC), Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), Government of India (GoI) had placed a tender to procure 8 kits of Assay sets, 37 kits of one step RT-PCR kit, and 36 kits of viral RNA extraction kits.\n\n"}
{"id": "9727634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9727634", "title": "Tayeb Abdallah", "text": "Tayeb Abdallah\n\nAl-Tayeb Abdallah (died February 24, 2007) was a former Sudanese president of the Sudanese football (soccer) club Al-Hilal (Omdurman).\n\nAbdallah started his career at Al Hilal as vice secretary of the club in 1963. After great organizational skills, Abdallah was appointed as secretary then president in 1968. In 1999 after spending 30 years with Al Hilal, Abdallah decided to step down due to his medical conditions.\n\nAbdallah had undergone a surgical operation in Egypt . Soon after that, he died on February 24, 2007 leaving a great legacy as the longest president of a sports club in Sudan. He was nicknamed as \"Al-zaeem\", (the Leader), and \"The Spiritual Father of Al Hilal\" since he was greatly respected throughout the whole sports community in Sudan.\n\n"}
{"id": "27646236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27646236", "title": "Tony Bennett (superintendent)", "text": "Tony Bennett (superintendent)\n\nTony Bennett is the former Florida Commissioner of Education and the former Indiana Superintendent of Public Instruction.\n\nBennett received his Doctor of Education and Indiana Superintendent's License from Spalding University in 2005; his Certification in Secondary Administration and Supervision from Indiana University Southeast in 1994; his Master of Science in Secondary Education from Indiana University Southeast in 1988; and his Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education from Indiana University Southeast in 1984.\nBennett served as a teacher, coach and administrator.\n\nIn 2010, the Indiana Chamber of Commerce named him Government Leader of the Year and, in 2011, The Fordham Institute named him Education Reform Idol.\n\nBennett was narrowly elected Indiana State Superintendent in 2008, succeeding retiring four-term incumbent Suellen Reed. He was defeated for re-election in an upset in his bid for a second term. He made education reform a key platform of his tenure.\n\nDuring Bennett's term, student achievement improved on several key academic indicators. Scores on the state's ISTEP+ exam, Advanced Placement pass percentages and graduate rates reached new highs.\n\nSome criticized Bennett and his wife in 2011 because of her involvement with a charter school oversight program at Marian University. The state awarded a contract to Marian to establish a \"Turnaround Leadership Academy\" to train transformational school leaders. Officials noted the contract was awarded through a competitive request for proposals process.\n\nDespite receiving nearly hundred thousand dollars in out-of-state campaign money, Bennett ended up losing the 2012 superintendent race to Glenda Ritz.\n\nSome controversy arose after the election because the current president of Purdue University, Mitch Daniels, claimed that teachers used illegal tactics to defeat Bennett.\n\nIn November 2018, it was reported that Bennett, who directed policies in 2011 that eventually led to a state takeover of the Gary Community School Corporation in 2017, has an ownership stake in the company selected by the GOP-controlled legislature to manage the takeover with a potential to earn $11.4 million. After discovering the conflict of interest in Bennett's ownership in the management company, state and local lawmakers immediately called for a repudiation of the state's contract with his company.\n\nOn December 12, 2012, the Florida Board of Education unanimously selected Bennett as the state's new education commissioner. On August 1, 2013, Bennett announced his resignation due to the scandal surrounding Christel House Academy, citing if he stayed on as commissioner it would \"be a distraction to the children of Florida.\"\n\nIn the fall of 2012, Bennett, as Indiana superintendent of schools, changed the \"A–F\" school rating system so that Christel House Academy, a charter school run by a Republican donor, would receive a top A rating. Emails suggested a focus on just the one school. Bennett's email quoted him as saying, \"We have NO chance of advancing accountability during the session with this problem in front of us.\" Subsequent emails showed his staff working to get the charter school up to an A rating. Bennett defended the rating change, saying the prior rating system disadvantaged Christel House because the school instructed students from kindergarten through 10th grade. Bennett said the same rating changes applied to other schools spanning nontraditional grade ranges.\n\nBennett was investigated for misuse of public resources in the lead up to his 2012 election loss to Glenda Ritz. In July 2014, the State Ethics Commission accepted Bennett's offer to settle the ethics charges by paying a $5,000 fine. Publicly, the commission admonished Bennett for minor ethics violations, but internal documents obtained from the inspector general's office listed more than 100 potential violations of federal wire fraud law by Bennett or his employees. In May 2015, Marion County prosecutors had reviewed the inspector general's internal documents, and declined to pursue charges against Bennett.\n\nBennett was born in Clark County, Indiana, is once divorced, is currently married to Tina and lives in Tallahassee, Florida. He has four children, including a set of triplets, and three grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "9720871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9720871", "title": "Underneath the Lintel", "text": "Underneath the Lintel\n\nUnderneath the Lintel is a play by Glen Berger that premièred in 2001. The sole character—the Librarian—embarks on a quest to find out who anonymously returned a library book that is 113 years overdue. A clue scribbled in the margin of the book and an unclaimed dry-cleaning ticket then take him on a mysterious adventure that spans the globe and the ages.\n\nThe play begins with the Librarian appearing on stage, which is sparsely furnished with a whiteboard and marker pens, a magnetic bulletin board, and a table. The Librarian carries with him a battered suitcase. He informs the audience that he is giving a lecture for only one day about a discovery he has made.\n\nThe Librarian then opens his suitcase and begins to show the audience what he calls his \"scraps\": pieces of evidence each marked with numbered tags that provide evidence of a person whose identity is gradually revealed over the course of the play.\n\nHe starts with a copy of a Baedeker travel guide that was anonymously returned 113 years overdue to the library in the small Dutch town where he used to work. Tracking down the loan records of the book, he finds that the book was borrowed by one \"A.\" who provided a post office box as his address. Inside the book, he finds a 73-year-old dry-cleaning ticket for an unclaimed piece of clothing in a London laundry shop. Intrigued, he takes leave from work to visit London. He finds that the laundry shop is still in business and, using the ticket, redeems a pair of trousers that has not been cleaned because of its poor condition.\n\nEventually, the audience learns that the person to whom all of the Librarian's items relate may be Ahasuerus the Wandering Jew, a mythical figure from medieval Christian folklore.\n\n\"Underneath the Lintel\" was first produced in 2001 in Los Angeles by The Actors' Gang theatre company. Brent Hinkley directed and Brian T. Finney played the Librarian. It was produced later that same year in New York at the Soho Playhouse with T. Ryder Smith as the librarian. Scott Morfee, Tom Wirtshafter and Dana Matthow were the producers, with Randy White directing. Sets were by Lauren Halpern, lighting by Tyler Micoleau, sound by Paul Adams, costumes by Miranda Hoffman and projections by Elaine J. McCarthy. The play ran for 450 performances, and was voted among the Top Ten Plays of the Year by \"Time Out NY\" magazine. T. Ryder Smith played the Librarian, and received a Drama Desk Award nomination that year as Outstanding Solo Performer.\n\nThe Canadian premiere was produced in Edmonton by Shadow Theatre in 2002. The play received an Elizabeth Sterling Haynes Award as the outstanding production of the year, as well as awards for actor Andy Curtis and director James DeFelice.\n\nThe Seattle premiere was at the Empty Space Theatre in March 2003 starring Todd Jefferson Moore.\n\nThe Metropolitan Baltimore-Washington premier was at Round House Theatre in July 2003 directed by Jane Beard starring Jerry Whiddon.\nThe Lantern Theater Company of Philadelphia presented the play in 2003, with Peter DeLaurier as the Librarian, who won a Barrymore Award as Leading Actor in a Play. He reprised the role at the same venue in 2015.\n\nThe Houston premiere of the play was in February 2004 at Main Street Theater, produced by Hero Productions, with Jim Bernhard as the Librarian, directed by Roy Hamlin. The play was subsequently produced in Houston in March 2008 by the Alley Theatre with John Tyson as the Librarian, directed by Alex Harvey.\n\nOrlando Theatre Project presented the US southeastern premiere of this play in May 2004, featuring Kristian Truelsen as the Librarian and directed by Doug Truelsen. \n\nCesear's Forum, Cleveland's small minimalist theatre at Kennedy's Down Under, Playhouse Square, OH, presented the play in an April/May 2004 production.\n\nThe play received a 2005 production at the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, New Jersey, with US actor Richard Schiff as the Librarian. It was then staged again at Indiana Repertory Theatre in Indianapolis, Indiana, between 21 March and 6 May 2006. Robert K Johansen played the Librarian, directed by John Green.\n\nBeowulf Alley Theatre in Tucson, Arizona, produced the play in 2005 with Roberto Guajardo in the lead role.\n\nFirst Presbyterian Theater of Fort Wayne, Indiana produced \"Lintel\" at the end of its 2005-2006 season in July 2006 with Joel D. Scribner as the Librarian, directed by Thom Hofrichter.\n\nThe Irish premiere was produced by Landmark Productions in September 2006 as part of the Dublin Fringe Festival, directed by Joshua Edelman and starring Philip O'Sullivan, receiving nominations for Best Production and Best Male Performer in the festival. \nThe production subsequently played at the Assembly Rooms as part of the 2010 Edinburgh Festival Fringe.\n\nSchiff reprised the role at the Duchess Theatre in London's West End from 7 February to 31 March 2007. This production was directed by Maria Mileaf. A radio version of the play, performed by Richard Schiff, was broadcast by BBC Radio 4 on 5 January 2008.\n\nThe eastern Canadian premiere of the play opened at the 2007 Fringe Festival of Toronto at the Factory Theatre in July 2007. The performance was produced by the Book Productions and Celeste Sansregret and starred Canadian actor John D. Huston as the Librarian.\n\nIn the winter of 2013, Kingbaby Productions mounted the play on Bowen Island, British Columbia starring David Cameron as the Librarian.\nOriginal off-Broadway director Randy White directed a new production of the play in Bloomington, Indiana in May 2013 for his company, Cardinal Stage Company, starring Mike Price as the Librarian.\n\nIn May 2013, Duncan Henderson played the role of the Librarian in a production directed by D. James Newton in Brighton, UK.\n\nIn 2013, Mick Mize played the role of the librarian in a production performed at the Live Oak Theater in Berkeley, CA.\n\nIn 2013, the American Conservatory Theatre in San Francisco presented David Strathairn as the Librarian.\n\nIn 2014, the local theater Vendsyssel Teater in Hjørring, Denmark presented the play under the name of \"Rejsen (\"The travel\")\". The Librarian was played by local actor Asger Reher, and the show was directed by Peter Schrøder. The play premiered on September 4, 2014.\n\nIn 2014, the Triad Stage in North Carolina, presented the play. The Librarian was played by New York-based actor Kate Goehring, and the show was directed by Triad Artistic Director Preston Lane. The play premiered on September 20, 2014.\n\nIn 2017, the Godot Cafe Theatre from Bucharest (Romania) presented the play. The Librarian is played by Razvan Vasilescu.\n\nIn 2017, Chicago theatre ensemble Theatre Y presented the play 26 times over a 38-day period along the Camino de Santiago. The Librarian was played by Darren Hill.\n\n\"Underneath the Lintel\" is published by Broadway Play Publishing Inc in both the original version and one in which the Librarian is female.\n\n"}
{"id": "848317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=848317", "title": "Violence in sports", "text": "Violence in sports\n\nViolence in sports usually refers to violent and often unnecessarily harmful intentional physical acts committed during, or motivated by, a sports game, often in relation to contact sports such as American football, ice hockey, rugby football, lacrosse, association football, boxing, mixed martial arts, wrestling, and water polo and, when referring to the players themselves, often involving excessively violent or potentially illegal physical contact beyond the normal levels of contact expected while playing the sport. These acts of violence can include intentional attempts to injure a player or coach by another player or coach, but can also include threats of physical harm or actual physical harm sustained by players or coaches by fans or those engaging in the spectating of sports, or threats and acts of violence performed by fans or spectators upon opposing fans or other spectators.\n\nThere are two major theories on the cause of violence in sports. One theory holds that humans have an instinct for violence, developed during a time when early human ancestors had to resort to violence and aggressiveness to survive and reproduce. Another theory deals with the sociological aspects of violence in sports, stating that sports are \"mock battles\" which can become actual battles due to their competitive nature.\n\nThrough a \"civilizing process\", many modern sports have become less tolerant of bloodshed than past versions, although many violent aspects of these sports still remain.\nAthletes sometimes resort to violence, in hopes of injuring and intimidating opponents. Such incidents may be part of a strategy developed by coaches or players.\n\nIn boxing, unruly or extremely violent behavior by one of the contestants often results in the fighter breaking the rules being penalized with a points reduction, or, in extreme cases, disqualification. Outlawed tactics in boxing include hitting the opponent on the back of the head, under the belly during clinching, and to the back. Other tactics that are outlawed, but less seen, are pushing an opponent extremely hard to the floor, kicking, or hitting repeatedly after the round has ended. Similar actions have also happened in ice hockey and Australian Football League matches.\n\nHigh school, college, and even professional sports teams often include initiation ceremonies (known as hazing in the USA) as a rite of passage. A 1999 study by Alfred University and the NCAA found that approximately four out of five college US athletes (250,000 per year) experienced hazing. Half were required to take part in alcohol-related initiations, while two-thirds were subjected to humiliation rituals.\n\nViolence may also be related to nationalism or as an outlet for underlying social tensions. It is often alcohol-related.\n\nViolence by supporters of sports teams dates back to Roman times, when supporters of chariot racing teams were frequently involved in major riots. Usually, underlying political and/or theological issues helped fuel riots related to sporting events in the Roman era. The Nika riots of 532 were especially deadly, with tens of thousands reportedly killed.\n\nIn periods when theatre was considered a form of mass entertainment, there were phenomena of rival fans supporting rival actors or theatrical teams, occasionally leading to violent outbursts having many similarities to present-day violence of sports fans – the Astor Place Riot in 1849 New York City being a conspicuous example.\n\nThe actions of English football hooligans and firms in the 1980s caused English teams to be banned from European competition for six years after the Heysel Stadium disaster in 1985. Although the level of football-related violence was significantly reduced in England after this event, in the recent Euro 2004 tournament, England were publicly warned that any violence by supporters at matches could result in their ejection from the tournament. Many known hooligans were prevented from traveling to the tournament in Portugal. There was a collective sigh of relief from security experts in the USA when England failed to qualify for the 1994 FIFA World Cup. Alan Rothenberg (chairman of the World Cup organizing committee in the United States in 1994) said:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nViolence has been a part of ice hockey since at least the early 1900s. According to the book \"\", in 1904 alone, four players were killed during hockey games from the frequent brawls and violent stickwork. Fighting in ice hockey is an established tradition of the sport in North America, with a long history involving many levels of amateur and professional play and including some notable individual fights. While officials tolerate fighting during hockey games, they impose a variety of penalties on players who engage in fights. Unique to North American professional team sports, the National Hockey League (NHL) and most minor professional leagues in North America do not eject players outright for fighting but major European and collegiate hockey leagues do.\n\nThe debate over allowing fighting in ice hockey games is ongoing. Despite its potentially negative consequences, such as heavier enforcers (or \"heavyweights\") knocking each other out, some administrators are not considering eliminating fighting from the game, as some players consider it essential. Additionally, the majority of fans oppose eliminating fights from professional hockey games.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2939880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2939880", "title": "Vladislav Petković Dis", "text": "Vladislav Petković Dis\n\nVladislav Petković Dis (; born Vladislav Petković; 12 March 1880 – 16 May/29 May 1917) was a Serbian poet, part of the impressionism movement in European poetry, known as \"Moderna/Symbolism\" in Serbia. He was born in 1880 in Zablaće, near Čačak in Serbia and died in 1917 on a boat on the Ionian Sea after being hit by a torpedo.\n\nVladislav Petković was born in Zablaće, a village near Čačak, in the Principality of Serbia. He made his way to Čačak, graduating from the Gymnasium and Teacher's College in 1902. He was appointed temporary teacher at Prlita, a village near the town of Zaječar. He did not like teaching, and his small output of poetry brought him little income. In 1903, he moved to Belgrade, and became prominent in the literary life there, when his poems appeared in \"Idila\", a literary magazine.Vladislav Petković chose his appellation \"Dis\" as a repetition of the middle syllable of his first name, but also as the name of the Roman god of the underworld. He was a frequent evening visitor to the Belgrade's \"kafanas\" in Skadarlija and elsewhere where he would drink and compose new verse at the same time.\n\nHe obtained an appointment as a customs official with the municipal government, giving him a good income and leisure time to write. He was named co-editor, with Sima Pandurović, of \"Literary Weekend\" (Književna nedelja). Both Petković-Dis and Pandurović were considered the \"enfants terribles\" of their literary world (both being under the influence of Charles Baudelaire and other French Symbolists, like Šantić, Dučić, Rakić, Ćorović, and even Skerlić before he abandoned the movement). After the demise of the magazine, he married Hristina-Tinka, with whom he had two children, Gordana and Mutimir.\n\nHe wrote \"Spomenik\" (Monument) in anticipation of World War I:<poem>\"And it still seems that,<br>as my soul dreams on,<br>the monument lives on,<br>ready for eternity,<br>reborn into new traditions,<br>tempering young ambitions<br>to erect the next monument.\"</poem> During the outbreak of the First Balkan War he was conscripted by the military as a journalist. He was the war correspondent covering battles of the Serbian Army in the First Balkan War (1912), Second Balkan War (1913), and World War I that followed. In 1915 he joined the Serbian army in their retreat to Corfu.\n\nFrom Corfu Petković-Dis was sent to France to recuperate and write about the entire tragedy. In 1917, on his way back, on either 16 May or 29 May (varying sources), he became a civilian war casualty after boarding an Italian ship, destined for Corfu. It was torpedoed and sunk by a German submarine in the Ionian Sea. He is said to have predicted his unfortunate destiny, for one of his most famous collections of poems is called \"Drowned Souls\", earning him the reputation of a cursed poet. He was 37 years old.\n\nHis nickname Dis was derived from the three letters in the middle of his first name \"Vla-DIS-lav\". He introduced irrational and subconscious images into Serbian lyric poetry. Some of his most famous poems are \"Možda spava\" (\"She May Be Sleeping\") and \"Spomenik\" (\"Monument\").\n\nIn \"Spomenik\", Petković Dis dreamed of a monument:<poem>\"It has a long life,<br>Today it descends into new legends,<br>To prepare our descendents for the next monument.\"<br></poem> Petković Dis was writing in 1913, just after Serbia wrested Kosovo from the Ottoman Empire and installed an obelisk on the site of the famous medieval battle when Kosovo was severed from Serbia by the Ottomans. Dis's poetry was not well received at the beginning by Jovan Skerlić, one of the most distinguished Serbian literary critics of that time, who did not care for the poems' morbid and sinister tone.\n\n\n"}
