{"id": "13008109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13008109", "title": "833A", "text": "833A\n\nThe 833A is a vacuum tube constructed for medium power oscillator or class B or C amplifier applications. It is a medium-mu power triode with 300 watts CCS or 350 watts ICAS anode dissipation. The long grid and anode leads, plus high internal capacitance, limits this tube to 15-30 MHz maximum frequency. Being medium mu, it is normally not suitable for grounded grid operation.\n\nThe 833A is a large tube of the type sometimes known as a \"cookie jar\" tube, with the envelope nominally measuring 116.8 mm (4.60 in.) in diameter and 219.2 mm (8.63 in.) in height. The 833A contains a thoriated tungsten filament rated at 10 volts and 10 amps. A pair of 833A's with adequate forced air cooling can deliver 1000 watts of CCS RF power operating as a class C amplifier plate modulated stage. \n\nA pair of tubes used in a class B modulator can deliver 1800 watts of \"peak\" AF power in ICAS service with speech, or 1600 watts in CCS service with music or high duty cycle operation. Two 833A's are capable of approximately 800 watts sine wave power in a class B audio amplifier or modulator. This assumes approximately 58% efficiency, 1400 watts input, and 300 watts per tube anode dissipation. The anode normally shows a dull to medium red color when operating at full power.\n\nThe tube is supported solely by its two filament posts. These posts are keyed with the F1 and F2 connection having a diameter of 9.5 mm (0.375 in) and 11.1 mm (0.438 in) respectively.\n\nThe 833A was preceded by the 833.\n\nAmplification factor, 35\nAnode to Grid capacitance, 6.3 pF\nAnode to Filament capacitance, 8.5 pF\nFilament to Grid capacitance, 12.3 pF\n\nValues for \"two 833s\" working class B as an audio amplifier or modulator.\nVa \"max\", 3 kV\nIa \"max\", 500 mA (Averaged over one cycle of signal waveform per 833.)\nPin \"max\", 1.125 kW (Averaged over one cycle of signal waveform per 833. This is the total input power to each 833 at maximum drive.)\nPa \"max\", 300 W (Averaged over one cycle of signal waveform per 833. This is the maximum anode dissipation and at this power level the anode reaches a temperature of about 800 °C, and glows red hot.)\nVg1 \"max\", -70 V\nA.F. grid to grid voltage, 400 V Pk.\nNo signal D.C. anode current, 100 mA\nMax signal D.C. anode current, 750 mA \nLoad resistance, (Per 833), 2.375 kΩ \nEffective load resistance, (anode to anode), 9.5 kΩ \nMax signal driving power, 20 W avg. \nMax output power, 1.65 kW avg. \n\nValues \"per 833\" working class B as an R.F. amplifier with a maximum modulation factor of 1.0.\nVa \"max\", 3 kV\nIa \"max\", 400 mA \nPin \"max\", 450 W (This is the total input power to each 833 at maximum drive.)\nPa \"max\", 300 W (This is the maximum anode dissipation and at this power level the anode reaches a temperature of about 800 °C, and glows red hot.)\nVg1 \"max\", -70 V\nPeak R.F. grid voltage, 90 V.\nD.C. anode current, 150 mA\nD.C. grid current, 2 mA\nDriving power, 10 W appx. \nOutput power, 150 W appx. \n\nValues \"per 833\" working class C as an R.F. amplifier with a maximum modulation factor of 1.0.\nVa \"max\", 2.5 kV\nIa \"max\", 400 mA \nPin \"max\", 850 W (This is the total input power to each 833 at maximum drive.)\nPa \"max\", 200 W (This is the maximum anode dissipation.)\nVg1 \"max\", -500 V, \"nom\", -300v \nPeak R.F. grid voltage, 460 V.\nD.C. anode current, 335 mA\nD.C. grid current, 75 mA\nDriving power, 30 W appx. \nOutput power, 630 W appx. \n\nValues \"per 833\" working class C as an R.F. amplifier or oscillator, (C.W. conditions, unmodulated, 50% Duty cycle.)\nVa \"max\", 3 kV\nIa \"max\", 500 mA \nPin \"max\", 1.25 kW (This is the total input power to each 833 at maximum drive.)\nPa \"max\", 300 W (This is the maximum anode dissipation.)\nVg1 \"max\", -500 V, \"nom\", -200 V \nPeak R.F. grid voltage, 360 V.\nD.C. anode current, 415 mA\nD.C. grid current, 55 mA\nDriving power, 20 W appx. \nOutput power, 1 kW appx. \n\nGrid voltages measured with respect to the midpoint of the directly heated cathode.\n80% efficiency at A.F., dropping to 60% at 100 MHz when used as an amplifier.\n\nThe 833A was widely used in small (1 kW class) AM broadcast transmitters. Typically, a pair of 833As would be used in the final amplifier, plate modulated by another pair. It was also used in small induction heaters. This tube has also been used by hobbyists to construct a vacuum tube Tesla coil.\n\n"}
{"id": "31889068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31889068", "title": "Amit Bando", "text": "Amit Bando\n\nHe works with the private sector on clean technology finance issues and with organizations such as the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the Global Green Growth Institute (3GI) on program design and implementation issues.\n\nDuring his career as a policy scientist at the United States Department of Energy and an international consultant, Mr. Bando has worked in over 60 nations to promote innovative financing of clean energy initiatives and climate change mitigation/adaptation options. In the past five years alone, he has programmed over $1.5 billion worldwide. In addition, he has helped establish the Chicago Climate Exchange, led the development of the US National Energy Modeling System (NEMS) and represented the USA at the Rio Earth Summit as well as at other ministerial forums on energy efficiency, climate change and the environment. He has developed several widely used monitoring and evaluation tools for low-carbon initiatives.\n\nAs an entrepreneur, Bando has founded an international management advisory firm, currently operating with a $50 million (annual) portfolio of projects in urban clean infrastructure development, institutional reform, governance and micro-finance. In the USA, his pioneering efforts have provided greater access to clean technology alternatives among minority populations. In addition, he has founded the Center for Econometric Modeling and Forecasting (CEMAF) -- a for-profit research institution working on US-Mexico border issues.\n\nBando has published extensively on the economic evaluation of environmental impacts and presented numerous workshops on clean investment finance and environmental management. He has helped private sector entities understand development-financing issues and has designed/implemented training programs for agencies such as the Asian Development Bank (ADB), World Bank, USAID, NASA, United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the United States Department of Energy (USDOE). Working with legal experts, Mr. Bando often testifies on the economic implications of regulations on energy and the environment.\n\nEarlier in his career, Mr. Bando has taught at the Universities of Chicago, Minnesota and Illinois, and New Mexico State University.\n\nHe completed his graduate and post-graduate studies in Economics and Statistics at the University of Minnesota, Delhi School of Economics and St. Stephen's College, Delhi. Currently based in Paris, he has lived and worked in India, USA and Kenya.\n"}
{"id": "4682545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4682545", "title": "Asian Dust", "text": "Asian Dust\n\nAsian Dust (also yellow dust, yellow sand, yellow wind or China dust storms) is a meteorological phenomenon which affects much of East Asia year round but especially during the spring months. The dust originates in the deserts of Mongolia, northern China and Kazakhstan where high-speed surface winds and intense dust storms kick up dense clouds of fine, dry soil particles. These clouds are then carried eastward by prevailing winds and pass over China, North and South Korea, and Japan, as well as parts of the Russian Far East. Sometimes, the airborne particulates are carried much further, in significant concentrations which affect air quality as far east as the United States.\n\nSince the turn of the 21st century, it has become a serious problem due to the increase of industrial pollutants contained in the dust and intensified desertification in China causing longer and more frequent occurrences, as well as in the last few decades when the Aral Sea of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan started drying up due to the diversion of the Amu River and Syr River following a Soviet agricultural program to irrigate Central Asian deserts, mainly for cotton plantations.\n\nSulfur (an acid rain component), soot, ash, carbon monoxide, and other toxic pollutants including heavy metals (such as mercury, cadmium, chromium, arsenic, lead, zinc, copper) and other carcinogens, often accompany the dust storms, as well as viruses, bacteria, fungi, pesticides, antibiotics, asbestos, herbicides, plastic ingredients, combustion products as well as hormone mimicking phthalates. Though scientists have known that intercontinental dust plumes can ferry bacteria and viruses, \"most people had assumed that the [sun's] ultraviolet light would sterilize these clouds,\" says microbiologist Dale W. Griffin, also with the USGS in St. Petersburg, \"We now find that isn't true.\"\n\nAreas affected by the dust experience decreased visibility and the dust is known to cause a variety of health problems, including sore throat and asthma in otherwise healthy people. Often, people are advised to avoid or minimize outdoor activities, depending on severity of storms. For those already with asthma or respiratory infections, it can be fatal. The dust has been shown to increase the daily mortality rate in one affected region by 1.7%.\n\nAlthough sand itself is not necessarily harmful to soil, due to sulphur emissions and the resulting acid rain, the storms also destroy farmland by degrading the soil, and deposits of ash and soot and heavy metals as well as potentially dangerous biomatter blanket the ground with contaminants including croplands, aquifers, etc. The dust storms also affect wildlife particularly hard, destroying crops, habitat, and toxic metals interfering with reproduction. Coral are hit particularly hard. Toxic metals propagate up the food chain, e.g. from fish to higher mammals. Air visibility is reduced, including cancelled flights, ground travel, outdoor activities, and can be correlated to significant loss of economic activity. Japan has reported washed clothes stained yellow.\n\nKorea Times has reported it costing 3 million won (US $3,000), 6000 gallons of water, and six hours to clean one jumbo jet.\n\nShanghai on April 3, 2007, recorded an air quality index of 500. In the US, a 300 is considered \"Hazardous\" and anything over 200 is \"Unhealthy\".\nDesertification has intensified in China, as 1,740,000 km² of land is \"dry\", it disrupts the lives of 400 million people and causes direct economic losses of 54 billion yuan ($7 billion) a year, SFA figures show. These figures probably vastly underestimate, as they just take into account direct effects, without including medical, pollution, and other secondary effects, as well as effects to neighboring nations.\n\nEl Niño plays a role in Asian dust storms, because winter ice can keep dust from sweeping off the land.\n\nIn recent years, South Korea and China have participated in reforestation efforts in the source region. This has not affected the problem in a significant way, however. In April 2006, South Korean meteorologists reported the worst yellow dust storm in four years.\n\nChina also has taken steps, with international support, to plant trees in desert areas, and has claimed to have planted 12 billion trees. But the winds are so strong in certain places that the trees simply topple or get buried in sand.\n\nAn analysis of Asian Dust clouds conducted in China in 2001 showed them to contain high concentrations of silicon (24–32%), aluminum (5.9–7.4%), calcium (6.2–12%), and iron, numerous toxic substances were also present, although it is thought that heavier materials (such as poisonous mercury and cadmium from coal burning) settle out of the clouds closer to the origin.\n\nPeople further from the source of the dust are more often exposed to nearly invisible, fine dust particles that they can unknowingly inhale deep into their lungs, as coarse dust is too big to be deeply inhaled. After inhalation, it can cause long term scarring of lung tissue as well as induce cancer and lung disease.\n\nSome of the earliest written records of dust storm activity are recorded in the ancient Chinese literature. It is believed that the earliest Chinese dust storm record was found in the Zhu Shu Ji Nian (Chinese: 竹书纪年; English: the Bamboo Annals). The record said: in the fifth year of Di Xin (1150 BC, Di Xin was the Era Name of the King Di Xin of Shang Dynasty), it rained dust at Bo (Bo is a place in Henan Province in China; in Classical Chinese: 帝辛五年，雨土于亳).\n\nThe first known record of an Asian Dust event in Korea was in 174 AD during the Silla Dynasty. The dust was known as \"Uto (우토, 雨土)\", meaning 'Raining Dirt/Earth', and was believed at the time to be the result of an angry god sending down dust instead of rain or snow.\n\nSpecific records referring to Asian Dust events in Korea also exist from the Baekje, Goguryeo, and Joseon periods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2222635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2222635", "title": "Atmospheric electricity", "text": "Atmospheric electricity\n\nAtmospheric electricity is the study of electrical charges in the Earth's atmosphere (or that of another planet). The movement of charge between the Earth's surface, the atmosphere, and the ionosphere is known as the global atmospheric electrical circuit. Atmospheric electricity is an interdisciplinary topic with a long history, involving concepts from electrostatics, atmospheric physics, meteorology and Earth science.\n\nThunderstorms act as a giant battery in the atmosphere, charging up the ionosphere to about 400,000 volts with respect to the surface. This sets up an electric field throughout the atmosphere, which decreases with increase in altitude. Atmospheric ions created by cosmic rays and natural radioactivity move in the electric field, so a very small current flows through the atmosphere, even away from thunderstorms. Near the surface of the earth, the magnitude of the field is on average around 100 V/m.\n\nAtmospheric electricity involves both thunderstorms, which create lightning bolts to rapidly discharge huge amounts of atmospheric charge stored in storm clouds, and the continual electrification of the air due to ionization from cosmic rays and natural radioactivity, which ensure that the atmosphere is never quite neutral.\n\nSparks drawn from electrical machines and from Leyden jars suggested to the early experimenters, Hauksbee, Newton, Wall, Nollet, and Gray, that lightning was caused by electric discharges. In 1708, Dr. William Wall was one of the first to observe that spark discharges resembled miniature lightning, after observing the sparks from a charged piece of amber.\n\nBenjamin Franklin's experiments showed that electrical phenomena of the atmosphere were not fundamentally different from those produced in the laboratory, by listing many similarities between electricity and lightning. By 1749, Franklin observed lightning to possess almost all the properties observable in electrical machines.\n\nIn July 1750, Franklin hypothesized that electricity could be taken from clouds via a tall metal aerial with a sharp point. Before Franklin could carry out his experiment, in 1752 Thomas-François Dalibard erected a iron rod at Marly-la-Ville, near Paris, drawing sparks from a passing cloud. With ground-insulated aerials, an experimenter could bring a grounded lead with an insulated wax handle close to the aerial, and observe a spark discharge from the aerial to the grounding wire. In May 1752, Dalibard affirmed that Franklin's theory was correct.\n\nAround June 1752, Franklin reportedly performed his famous kite experiment. The kite experiment was repeated by Romas, who drew from a metallic string sparks long, and by Cavallo, who made many important observations on atmospheric electricity. Lemonnier (1752) also reproduced Franklin's experiment with an aerial, but substituted the ground wire with some dust particles (testing attraction). He went on to document the \"fair weather condition\", the clear-day electrification of the atmosphere, and its diurnal variation. Beccaria (1775) confirmed Lemonnier's diurnal variation data and determined that the atmosphere's charge polarity was positive in fair weather. Saussure (1779) recorded data relating to a conductor's induced charge in the atmosphere. Saussure's instrument (which contained two small spheres suspended in parallel with two thin wires) was a precursor to the electrometer. Saussure found that the atmospheric electrification under clear weather conditions had an annual variation, and that it also varied with height. In 1785, Coulomb discovered the electrical conductivity of air. His discovery was contrary to the prevailing thought at the time, that the atmospheric gases were insulators (which they are to some extent, or at least not very good conductors when not ionized). Erman (1804) theorized that the Earth was negatively charged, and Peltier (1842) tested and confirmed Erman's idea.\n\nSeveral researchers contributed to the growing body of knowledge about atmospheric electrical phenomena. Francis Ronalds began observing the potential gradient and air-earth currents around 1810, including making continuous automated recordings. He resumed his research in the 1840s as the inaugural Honorary Director of the Kew Observatory, where the first extended and comprehensive dataset of electrical and associated meteorological parameters was created. He also supplied his equipment to other facilities around the world with the goal of delineating atmospheric electricity on a global scale. Kelvin's new water dropper collector and divided-ring electrometer were introduced at Kew Observatory in the 1860s, and atmospheric electricity remained a speciality of the observatory until its closure. For high-altitude measurements, kites were once used, and weather balloons or aerostats are still used, to lift experimental equipment into the air. Early experimenters even went aloft themselves in hot-air balloons.\n\nHoffert (1888) identified individual lightning downward strokes using early cameras. Elster and Geitel, who also worked on thermionic emission, proposed a theory to explain thunderstorms' electrical structure (1885) and, later, discovered atmospheric radioactivity (1899) from the existence of positive and negative ions in the atmosphere. Pockels (1897) estimated lightning current intensity by analyzing lightning flashes in basalt (c. 1900) and studying the left-over magnetic fields caused by lightning. Discoveries about the electrification of the atmosphere via sensitive electrical instruments and ideas on how the Earth's negative charge is maintained were developed mainly in the 20th century, with CTR Wilson playing an important part. Current research on atmospheric electricity focuses mainly on lightning, particularly high-energy particles and transient luminous events, and the role of non-thunderstorm electrical processes in weather and climate.\n\nAtmospheric electricity is always present, and during fine weather away from thunderstorms, the air above the surface of Earth is positively charged, while the Earth's surface charge is negative. It can be understood in terms of a difference of potential between a point of the Earth's surface, and a point somewhere in the air above it. Because the atmospheric electric field is negatively directed in fair weather, the convention is to refer to the potential gradient, which has the opposite sign and is about 100V/m at the surface. The potential gradient in most locations is much lower than this value because it is an average of the charge built up by every thunderstorm and atmospheric disturbance around the globe. There is a weak conduction current of atmospheric ions moving in the atmospheric electric field, about 2 picoAmperes per square metre, and the air is weakly conductive due to the presence of these atmospheric ions.\n\nGlobal daily cycles in the atmospheric electric field, with a minimum around 03 UT and peaking roughly 16 hours later, were researched by the Carnegie Institution of Washington in the 20th century. This Carnegie curve variation has been described as \"the fundamental electrical heartbeat of the planet\".\n\nEven away from thunderstorms, atmospheric electricity can be highly variable, but, generally, the electric field is enhanced in fogs and dust whereas the atmospheric electrical conductivity is diminished.\n\nThe electrosphere layer (from tens of kilometers above the surface of the earth to the ionosphere) has a high electrical conductivity and is essentially at a constant electric potential. The ionosphere is the inner edge of the magnetosphere and is the part of the atmosphere that is ionized by solar radiation. (Photoionization is a physical process in which a photon is incident on an atom, ion or molecule, resulting in the ejection of one or more electrons.)\n\nThe Earth, and almost all living things on it, are constantly bombarded by radiation from outer space. This radiation primarily consists of positively charged ions from protons to iron and larger nuclei derived sources outside our solar system. This radiation interacts with atoms in the atmosphere to create an air shower of secondary ionising radiation, including X-rays, muons, protons, alpha particles, pions, and electrons. Ionization from this secondary radiation ensures that the atmosphere is weakly conductive, and that the slight current flow from these ions over the Earth's surface balances the current flow from thunderstorms. Ions have characteristic parameters such as mobility, lifetime, and generation rate that vary with altitude.\n\nThe potential difference between the ionosphere and the Earth is maintained by thunderstorms, with lightning strikes delivering negative charges from the atmosphere to the ground. \nCollisions between ice and soft hail (graupel) inside cumulonimbus clouds causes separation of positive and negative charges within the cloud, essential for the generation of lightning. How lightning initially forms is still a matter of debate: Scientists have studied root causes ranging from atmospheric perturbations (wind, humidity, and atmospheric pressure) to the impact of solar wind and energetic particles.\n\nAn average bolt of lightning carries a negative electric current of 40 kiloamperes (kA) (although some bolts can be up to 120 kA), and transfers a charge of five coulombs and energy of 500 MJ, or enough energy to power a 100-watt lightbulb for just under two months. The voltage depends on the length of the bolt, with the dielectric breakdown of air being three million volts per meter, and lightning bolts often being several hundred meters long. However, lightning leader development is not a simple matter of dielectric breakdown, and the ambient electric fields required for lightning leader propagation can be a few orders of magnitude less than dielectric breakdown strength. Further, the potential gradient inside a well-developed return-stroke channel is on the order of hundreds of volts per meter or less due to intense channel ionization, resulting in a true power output on the order of megawatts per meter for a vigorous return-stroke current of 100 kA .\n\nIf the quantity of water that is condensed in and subsequently precipitated from a cloud is known, then the total energy of a thunderstorm can be calculated. In an average thunderstorm, the energy released amounts to about 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours (3.6 joule), which is equivalent to a 20-kiloton nuclear warhead. A large, severe thunderstorm might be 10 to 100 times more energetic.\n\n\"St. Elmo's Fire\" is an electrical phenomenon in which luminous plasma is created by a coronal discharge originating from a grounded object. Ball lightning is often erroneously identified as St. Elmo's Fire, whereas they are separate and distinct phenomena. Although referred to as \"fire\", St. Elmo's Fire is, in fact, plasma, and is observed, usually during a thunderstorm, at the tops of trees, spires or other tall objects, or on the heads of animals, as a brush or star of light.\n\nCorona is caused by the electric field around the object in question ionizing the air molecules, producing a faint glow easily visible in low-light conditions. Approximately 1,000 – 30,000 volts per centimetre is required to induce St. Elmo's Fire; however, this is dependent on the geometry of the object in question. Sharp points tend to require lower voltage levels to produce the same result because electric fields are more concentrated in areas of high curvature, thus discharges are more intense at the end of pointed objects. St. Elmo's Fire and normal sparks both can appear when high electrical voltage affects a gas. St. Elmo's fire is seen during thunderstorms when the ground below the storm is electrically charged, and there is high voltage in the air between the cloud and the ground. The voltage tears apart the air molecules and the gas begins to glow. The nitrogen and oxygen in the Earth's atmosphere causes St. Elmo's Fire to fluoresce with blue or violet light; this is similar to the mechanism that causes neon signs to glow.\n\nThe Schumann resonances are a set of spectrum peaks in the extremely low frequency (ELF) portion of the Earth's electromagnetic field spectrum. Schumann resonance is due to the space between the surface of the Earth and the conductive ionosphere acting as a waveguide. The limited dimensions of the earth cause this waveguide to act as a resonant cavity for electromagnetic waves. The cavity is naturally excited by energy from lightning strikes.\n\nAtmospheric charges can cause undesirable, dangerous, and potentially lethal charge potential buildup in suspended electric wire power distribution systems. Bare wires suspended in the air spanning many kilometers and isolated from the ground can collect very large stored charges at high voltage, even when there is no thunderstorm or lightning occurring. This charge will seek to discharge itself through the path of least insulation, which can occur when a person reaches out to activate a power switch or to use an electric device.\n\nTo dissipate atmospheric charge buildup, one side of the electrical distribution system is connected to the earth at many points throughout the distribution system, as often as on every support pole. The one earth-connected wire is commonly referred to as the \"protective earth\", and provides path for the charge potential to dissipate without causing damage, and provides redundancy in case any one of the ground paths is poor due to corrosion or poor ground conductivity. The additional electric grounding wire that carries no power serves a secondary role, providing a high-current short-circuit path to rapidly blow fuses and render a damaged device safe, rather than have an ungrounded device with damaged insulation become \"electrically live\" via the grid power supply, and hazardous to touch.\n\nEach transformer in an alternating current distribution grid segments the grounding system into a new separate circuit loop. These separate grids must also be grounded on one side to prevent charge buildup within them relative to the rest of the system, and which could cause damage from charge potentials discharging across the transformer coils to the other grounded side of the distribution network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247298", "title": "Central Atlantic magmatic province", "text": "Central Atlantic magmatic province\n\nThe Central Atlantic magmatic province (CAMP) is the Earth's largest continental large igneous province, covering an area of roughly 11 million km. It is composed mainly of basalt that formed prior to the breakup of Pangaea in the Mesozoic Era, near the end of the Triassic and the beginning of the Jurassic periods. The subsequent breakup of Pangaea created the Atlantic Ocean and provided a legacy of basaltic dikes, sills, and lavas over a vast area around the present central North Atlantic Ocean, including large deposits in northwest Africa, southwest Europe, as well as northeast South and southeast North America (found as continental thoeliitic basalts in subaerial flows and intrusive bodies). The name and CAMP acronym were proposed by Andrea Marzoli (Marzoli et al. 1999) and adopted at a symposium held at the 1999 Spring Meeting of the American Geophysical Union.\n\nThe CAMP volcanic eruptions occurred about 201 million years ago and split into four pulses lasting for over ~600,000 years. The resulting large igneous province is, in area covered, the most extensive on earth. The volume of magma flow of ~2–3 × 10 km makes it one of the most voluminous as well.\n\nThis geologic event is associated with the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event.\n\nAlthough some connections among these basalts had long been recognized, in 1988 they were linked as constituting a single major flood basalt province . The basaltic sills of similar age (near 200 Ma, or earliest Jurassic) and composition (intermediate-Ti quartz tholeiite) which occur across the vast Amazon River basin of Brazil were linked to the province in 1999 . Remnants of CAMP have been identified on four continents (Africa, Europe, North America and South America) and consist of thoeliitic basalts formed during the opening of the Atlantic Ocean basin during the breakup of the Pangean supercontinent .\n\nThe province has been described as extending within Pangaea from present-day central Brazil northeastward about 5000 km across western Africa, Iberia, and northwestern France, and from the interior of western Africa westward for 2500 km through eastern and southern North America . If not the largest province by volume, the CAMP certainly encompasses the greatest area known, roughly 11 million km², of any continental large igneous province.\n\nNearly all CAMP rocks are tholeiitic in composition, with widely separated areas where basalt flows are preserved, as well as large groups of diabase (dolerite) sills or sheets, small lopoliths, and dikes throughout the province. Dikes occur in very large individual swarms with particular compositions and orientations. CAMP activity is apparently related to the rifting and breakup of Pangaea during the Late Triassic through Early Jurassic periods, and the enormous province size, varieties of basalt, and brief time span of CAMP magmatism invite speculation about mantle processes that could produce such a magmatic event as well as rift a supercontinent , .\n\nIn 2013 the CAMP's connection to the end-Triassic extinction, with major extinctions that enabled dinosaur domination of land, became more firmly established. Up until 2013, the uncertainties in the geochronologic dates had been too coarse to confirm the volcanic eruptions were correlated with major climate changes. The work by Blackburn et al. demonstrated a tight synchroneity between the earliest volcanism and extinction of large populations using zircon uranium-lead (U-Pb) dating. They further demonstrated that the magmatic eruptions as well as the accompanying atmospheric changes were split into four pulses lasting for over ~600,000 years .\n\nPrior to that integration, two hypotheses were in debate. One hypothesis was based especially on studies on Triassic-Jurassic basins from Morocco where CAMP lava flows are outcropping (e.g., ), whereas the other was based on end-Triassic extinction data from eastern North American basins and lava flows showing an extremely large turnover in fossil pollen, spores (sporomorphs), and vertebrates , respectively.\n\nThe thickest lava flow sequences of the African CAMP are situated in Morocco, where there are basaltic lava piles more than 300 metres thick. The most-studied area is Central High Atlas, where the best preserved and most complete basaltic lava piles are exposed. According to geochemical, petrographic and isotopic data four distinct tholeiitic basaltic units were recognized and can be placed throughout the Central High Atlas: Lower, Intermediate, Upper and Recurrent basalts.\nThe Lower and Intermediate units are constituted by basaltic andesites, whereas the Upper and Recurrent units have basaltic composition. From Lower to Recurrent unit, we observe: \n\nAges were determined by Ar/Ar analysis on plagioclase , , . These data show indistinguishable ages (199.5±0.5 Ma) from Lower to Upper lava flows, from central to northern Morocco. Therefore, CAMP is an intense, short magmatic event. Basalts of the Recurrent unit are slightly younger (mean age: 197±1 Ma) and represent a late event. Consistently, the Upper and Recurrent basalts are separated by a sedimentary layer that locally reaches a thickness of circa 80 m.\n\nAccording to magnetostratigraphic data, the Moroccan CAMP events were divided into five groups, differing in paleomagnetic orientations (declination and inclination) . Each group is composed by a smaller number of lava flows (i.e., a lower volume) than the preceding one. \nThese data suggest that they were created by five short magma pulses and eruption events, each one possibly <400 (?) years long. \nAll lava flow sequences are characterized by normal polarity, except for a brief paleomagnetic reversal yielded by one lava flow and by a localized interlayered limestone in two distinct section of the High Atlas CAMP.\n\nPalynological data from sedimentary layers samples at the base of four lava flow sequences constrain the onset of the CAMP, since there is no evidence of depositional hiatus or tectonic deformation at the bottom of the lava flow piles . The palynological assemblage observed in these basal layers is typical of Late Triassic age, similar to that of the uppermost Triassic sedimentary rocks of eastern North America .\nSamples from interlayered limestone in lava flows provided unreliable palynological data. One limestone bed from the top to the central High Atlas upper basalts yielded a Late Triassic palynological assemblage. However, the observed sporomorphs in this sample are rare and poorly preserved.\n\nAll of these data indicate that the basaltic lava flows of the Central Atlantic magmatic province in Morocco were erupted at c. 200 Ma and spanned the Tr-J boundary. Thus, it is very possible that there is a connection between this magmatic event and the Tr-J boundary climatic and biotic crisis that led to the mass-extinction.\n\nThe North American portion of the CAMP lava flows crop out in various sections in the basins of Newark, Culpeper, Hartford, Deerfield, i.e. the Newark Supergroup in New England (USA), and in the Fundy Basin in Nova Scotia (Canada). The CAMP is here constituted by rare olivine- and common quartz-normative basalts showing a great lateral extension and a maximum thickness up to 1 km. The basaltic flows occur on top of continental fluvial and lacustrine sedimentary units of Triassic age. Ar/Ar data (on plagioclase) indicate for these basaltic units an absolute age of 198-200 Ma bringing this magmatic event undoubtedly close to the Triassic-Jurassic (Tr-J) boundary. Thus it is necessary to determine whether it straddles the boundary or not: if not, then the CAMP could not be a cause of the Late Triassic extinction event. For example, according to there are palynological, geochemical, and magnetostratigraphic evidences that the CAMP postdates the Tr-J boundary.\n\nIn the Newark basin a magnetic reversal (E23r) is observed just below the oldest basalts and more or less in the same position as a palynologic turnover, interpreted as the Tr-J boundary. In Morocco, two reversal have been detected in two lava flow sequences. Two distinct correlations between the Moroccan and the Newark magnetostratigraphy have been proposed. suggest that the Tr-J boundary is located above the lower reverse polarity level which is positioned more or less at the base of the Intermediate basalt unit of Morocco. These two levels can be correlated with chron E23r of the Newark Basin, therefore the North American CAMP Basalts postdate the Tr–J boundary whereas part of the Moroccan CAMP was erupted within the Triassic. Contrarily, propose that these two levels could be earliest Jurassic intervals of reverse polarity not sampled in the Newark Basin Sequence (many more lava flows are present in the Moroccan Succession than in the Newark Basin), but observed in Early Jurassic sedimentary sequences of the Paris Basin of France. Reverse polarity intervals in America could be present within North Mountain (Fundy basin, Nova Scotia) which are poorly sampled even if previous magnetostratigraphy analysis in this sequence showed only normal polarity, or in the Scots Bay Member of the Fundy basin which have never been sampled. There is only one outcrop in the CAMP of America where reverse polarity is observable: a CAMP–related (about 200 Ma) dike in North Carolina. suggest that reverse polarity intervals in this dike could be of post Triassic age and correlated with the same events in Morocco.\n\nThe Tr-J boundary is not officially defined, but most workers recognise it in continental strata by the last appearance of index taxa such as \"Ovalipollis ovalis\", \"Vallasporites ignatii\" and \"Patinasporites densus\" or, in marine sections, by the first appearance of the ammonite \"Psiloceras planorbis\". In the Newark basin the palynological turnover event (hence the Tr-J boundary mass extinction) occurs below the oldest CAMP lava flows. The same can be said for the Fundy, Hartford and Deerfield Basins. In the investigated Moroccan CAMP sections (Central High Atlas Basin), sedimentary layers sampled immediately below the oldest basaltic lava flows, apparently contain Triassic taxa (e.g., \"P. densus\"), and were thus defined as Triassic in age as at least the lowest lava flows . Still, a different interpretation is suggested by : the sampled sedimentary strata are quite deformed and this can mean that some sedimentary units could be lacking (eroded or structurally omitted). With respect to the Triassic pollens found in some sedimentary units above the Upper Unit basalts, they could have been reworked, so they don’t represent a completely reliable constraint.\n\nCAMP lava flows of North America can be geochemically separated in three units: the older ones are classified as \"high titanium quartz normative\" (HTQ) basalts (TiO = 1.0-1.3 wt%); these are followed by lava flows classified as \"low titanium quartz normative\" (LTQ) basalts (TiO = ca. 0.8-1.3 wt%); and then by the youngest lava flow unit classified as \"high titanium iron quartz normative\" (HTIQ) basalts (TiO = 1.4-1.6 wt%). According to , geochemical analyses based upon titanium, magnesium and silicon contents show a certain correlation between the lower North American lava flows and the Lower Unit of the Moroccan CAMP, thus reinforcing the conclusion that the Moroccan basalts postdate the Tr-J boundary.\n\nTherefore, according to these data, CAMP basalts shouldn’t be included among the direct causes of the Tr-J mass extinction.\n\n"}
{"id": "53516034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53516034", "title": "Cerro Platillón Natural Monument", "text": "Cerro Platillón Natural Monument\n\nThe Cerro Platillón Natural Monument () Also Pico Platillón It is a protected area with the status of natural monument that consists of a mountain formation located in the extreme north of the Guárico state, Venezuela.\nAt an official height of 1,930 msnm2 Pico Platillón is the highest mountain in Guárico. It is protected as per decree published in Official Gazette of Venezuela, No. 33,664 of February 20, 1987.\n\nPico Platillón is located in the heart of a mountainous row of the Juan Germán Roscio Natural Monument, west of San Juan de los Morros and south of Lake Valencia. Towards the south we continue with the Topo Cruz and the row La Glorieta. Further to the east in the direction of the city of San Juan are other mountain ranges including the Paraparo Topo.\n"}
{"id": "23250197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23250197", "title": "Chuhaister", "text": "Chuhaister\n\nThe Chuhaister () is a Ukrainian tutelary deity of the forests. Although he shares similarities with the Russian Leshy, he is specific to the Ukrainian Carpathians.\n\nChuhaister are masculine and humanoid in shape. They are described either as being giant, long-haired old men who roam the woods naked or in white clothes, or as one-legged men to whom no harm can be done. They are also imagined as the wind. Their temperament is described as being cheerful and they are known to love singing and dancing. Unlike their Russian counterpart, the Leshy, they are not dangerous to humans.\n\nThe Chuhaister is known by a variety of names including the following:\n\n\nThe origin of the name Chuhaister is unclear, but it may be related to the Proto-Slavic root *čuga, meaning to guard. The origin of the second part of the word is unknown although it has been linked to the word for stork, (). The word may be of a foreign origin.\n\n"}
{"id": "54370099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54370099", "title": "Clements Gap Conservation Park", "text": "Clements Gap Conservation Park\n\nClements Gap Conservation Park is a protected area located in the Mid North of South Australia about west of Redhill, north east of Port Broughton and 42 metres above sea level. The park preserves an area of natural bushland and the built remnants of a small historic agricultural township, Clements Gap, about east of the Spencer Gulf coast. Maintained by the South Australian Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources (DEWNR), the park is classified as an IUCN Category III Natural Monument or Feature. The park is named for the surrounding farming locality of Clements Gap, a reference to the co-located pass through the Barunga Range. The Clements Gap pass in turn is thought to be named after a shepherd in the area prior to 1880, per research by local historian Rodney Cockburn.\n\nIn 1963 eight sections (439-442 and 565-568) of the Hundred of Mundoora (north east corner) were set aside and designated Mundoora Conservation Park. In 1981 the park was renamed to its present designation.\n\n"}
{"id": "48215783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48215783", "title": "Collage (geology)", "text": "Collage (geology)\n\nIn geology a collage is a tectonostratigraphic unit characterized by its heterogeneity in terms of its lithology, rock ages, or both. The term is usually applied to Precambrian tectonostratigraphic units. Collages form by plate tectonic processes like accretion and continental collision.\n"}
{"id": "53269914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53269914", "title": "Conrad Colman", "text": "Conrad Colman\n\nConrad Colman is a yachtsman from New Zealand. In 2016 he became the first New Zealander to compete in the famous single-handed around-the-world race, the Vendée Globe. On 10 February 2017 Colman was in 10th place, 740 miles from the finish line (having completed 97% of the race's 27,440 nautical mile circumnavigation) when his IMOCA 60, the \"Foresight Natural Energy\", was dismasted. Two weeks later he became the 3rd sailor in history to complete the Vendée Globe under jury rig, taking 16th place in the race with a time of just under 110 days 2 hours. Colman ran out of food after the dismasting, and completed the race on survival rations pillaged from his life raft.\n\n\"Foresight Natural Energy\" is the same yacht that Jean-Baptiste Dejeanty used in the 2008–09 Vendée Globe and it is powered entirely from reusable energy. When he crossed the finish line Colman became the first skipper to comple the Vendée Globe using no fossil fuels.\n\n"}
{"id": "39519079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39519079", "title": "Electromagnetic pulse", "text": "Electromagnetic pulse\n\nAn electromagnetic pulse (EMP), also sometimes called a transient electromagnetic disturbance, is a short burst of electromagnetic energy. Such a pulse's origination may be a natural occurrence or man-made and can occur as a radiated, electric, or magnetic field or a conducted electric current, depending on the source.\n\nEMP interference is generally disruptive or damaging to electronic equipment, and at higher energy levels a powerful EMP event such as a lightning strike can damage physical objects such as buildings and aircraft structures. The management of EMP effects is an important branch of electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) engineering.\n\nWeapons have been developed to deliver the damaging effects of high-energy EMP.\n\nAn electromagnetic pulse is a short burst of electromagnetic energy. Its short duration means that it will be spread over a range of frequencies. Pulses are typically characterized by:\n\n\nThe last two of these, the frequency spectrum and the pulse waveform, are interrelated via the Fourier transform and may be seen as two different ways of describing the same pulse.\n\nEMP energy may be transferred in any of four forms:\n\nDue to Maxwell's equations, a pulse of any one form of electromagnetic energy will always be accompanied by the other forms, however in a typical pulse one form will dominate.\n\nIn general, only radiation acts over long distances, with the others acting over short distances. There are a few exceptions, such as a solar magnetic flare.\n\nA pulse of electromagnetic energy typically comprises many frequencies from DC (zero Hz) to some upper limit depending on the source. The range defined as EMP, sometimes referred to as \"DC to daylight\", excludes the highest frequencies comprising the optical (infrared, visible, ultraviolet) and ionizing (X and gamma rays) ranges.\n\nSome types of EMP events can leave an optical trail, such as lightning and sparks, but these are side effects of the current flow through the air and are not part of the EMP itself.\n\nThe waveform of a pulse describes how its instantaneous amplitude (field strength or current) changes over time. Real pulses tend to be quite complicated, so simplified models are often used. Such a model is typically described either in a diagram or as a mathematical equation.\n\nMost electromagnetic pulses have a very sharp leading edge, building up quickly to their maximum level. The classic model is a double-exponential curve which climbs steeply, quickly reaches a peak and then decays more slowly. However, pulses from a controlled switching circuit often approximate the form of a rectangular or \"square\" pulse.\n\nEMP events usually induce a corresponding signal in the victim equipment, due to coupling between the source and victim. Coupling usually occurs most strongly over a relatively narrow frequency band, leading to a characteristic damped sine wave signal in the victim. Visually it is shown as a high frequency sine wave growing and decaying within the longer-lived envelope of the double-exponential curve. A damped sinewave typically has much lower energy and a narrower frequency spread than the original pulse, due to the transfer characteristic of the coupling mode. In practice, EMP test equipment often injects these damped sinewaves directly rather than attempting to recreate the high-energy threat pulses.\n\nIn a pulse train, such as from a digital clock circuit, the waveform is repeated at regular intervals. A single complete pulse cycle is sufficient to characterise such a regular, repetitive train.\n\nAn EMP arises where the source emits a short-duration pulse of energy. The energy is usually broadband by nature, although it often excites a relatively narrow-band \"damped sine wave\" response in the victim. Some types are generated as repetitive and regular \"pulse trains\".\n\nDifferent types of EMP arise from natural, man-made, and weapons effects.\n\nTypes of natural EMP event include:\n\n\nTypes of (civil) man-made EMP event include:\n\n\nTypes of military EMP include:\n\n\nLightning is unusual in that it typically has a preliminary \"leader\" discharge of low energy building up to the main pulse, which in turn may be followed at intervals by several smaller bursts.\n\nESD events are characterised by high voltages of many kV but small currents and sometimes cause visible sparks. ESD is treated as a small, localised phenomenon, although technically a lightning flash is a very large ESD event. ESD can also be man-made, as in the shock received from a Van de Graaff generator.\n\nAn ESD event can damage electronic circuitry by injecting a high-voltage pulse, besides giving people an unpleasant shock. Such an ESD event can also create sparks, which may in turn ignite fires or fuel-vapour explosions. For this reason, before refuelling an aircraft or exposing any fuel vapour to the air, the fuel nozzle is first connected to the aircraft to safely discharge any static.\n\nThe switching action of an electrical circuit creates a sharp change in the flow of electricity. This sharp change is a form of EMP.\n\nSimple electrical sources include inductive loads such as relays, solenoids, and the brush contacts in electric motors. Typically these send a pulse down any electrical connections present, as well as radiating a pulse of energy. The amplitude is usually small and the signal may be treated as \"noise\" or \"interference\". The switching off or \"opening\" of a circuit causes an abrupt change in the current flowing. This can in turn cause a large pulse in the electric field across the open contacts, causing arcing and damage. It is often necessary to incorporate design features to limit such effects.\n\nElectronic devices such as vacuum tubes or valves, transistors and diodes can also switch on and off very quickly, causing similar issues. One-off pulses may be caused by solid-state switches and other devices used only occasionally. However, the many millions of transistors in a modern computer may switch repeatedly at frequencies above 1 GHz, causing interference which appears to be continuous.\n\nA nuclear electromagnetic pulse is the abrupt pulse of electromagnetic radiation resulting from a nuclear explosion. The resulting rapidly changing electric fields and magnetic fields may couple with electrical/electronic systems to produce damaging current and voltage surges.\n\nThe intense gamma radiation emitted can also ionize the surrounding air, creating a secondary EMP as the atoms of air first lose their electrons and then regain them.\n\nNEMP weapons are designed to maximize such EMP effects as the primary damage mechanism, and some are capable of destroying susceptible electronic equipment over a wide area.\n\nA high-altitude electromagnetic pulse (HEMP) weapon is a NEMP warhead designed to be detonated far above the Earth's surface. The explosion releases a blast of gamma rays into the mid-stratosphere, which ionizes as a secondary effect and the resultant energetic free electrons interact with the Earth's magnetic field to produce a much stronger EMP than is normally produced in the denser air at lower altitudes.\n\nNon-nuclear electromagnetic pulse (NNEMP) is a weapon-generated electromagnetic pulse without use of nuclear technology. Devices that can achieve this objective include a large low-inductance capacitor bank discharged into a single-loop antenna, a microwave generator, and an explosively pumped flux compression generator. To achieve the frequency characteristics of the pulse needed for optimal coupling into the target, wave-shaping circuits or microwave generators are added between the pulse source and the antenna. Vircators are vacuum tubes that are particularly suitable for microwave conversion of high-energy pulses.\n\nNNEMP generators can be carried as a payload of bombs, cruise missiles (such as the CHAMP missile) and drones, with diminished mechanical, thermal and ionizing radiation effects, but without the consequences of deploying nuclear weapons.\n\nThe range of NNEMP weapons is much less than nuclear EMP. Nearly all NNEMP devices used as weapons require chemical explosives as their initial energy source, producing only 10 (one millionth) the energy of nuclear explosives of similar weight. The electromagnetic pulse from NNEMP weapons must come from within the weapon, while nuclear weapons generate EMP as a secondary effect. These facts limit the range of NNEMP weapons, but allow finer target discrimination. The effect of small e-bombs has proven to be sufficient for certain terrorist or military operations. Examples of such operations include the destruction of electronic control systems critical to the operation of many ground vehicles and aircraft.\n\nThe concept of the explosively pumped flux compression generator for generating a non-nuclear electromagnetic pulse was conceived as early as 1951 by Andrei Sakharov in the Soviet Union, but nations kept work on non-nuclear EMP classified until similar ideas emerged in other nations.\n\nThe large forces generated by electromagnetic pulses can be used to shape or form objects as part of their manufacturing process.\n\nMinor EMP events, and especially pulse trains, cause low levels of electrical noise or interference which can affect the operation of susceptible devices. For example, a common problem in the mid-twentieth century was interference emitted by the ignition systems of gasoline engines, which caused radio sets to crackle and TV sets to show stripes on the screen. Laws were introduced to make vehicle manufacturers fit interference suppressors.\n\nAt a high voltage level an EMP can induce a spark, for example from an electrostatic discharge when fuelling a gasoline-engined vehicle. Such sparks have been known to cause fuel-air explosions and precautions must be taken to prevent them.\n\nA large and energetic EMP can induce high currents and voltages in the victim unit, temporarily disrupting its function or even permanently damaging it.\n\nA powerful EMP can also directly affect magnetic materials and corrupt the data stored on media such as magnetic tape and computer hard drives. Hard drives are usually shielded by heavy metal casings. Some IT asset disposition service providers and computer recyclers use a controlled EMP to wipe such magnetic media.\n\nA very large EMP event such as a lightning strike is also capable of damaging objects such as trees, buildings and aircraft directly, either through heating effects or the disruptive effects of the very large magnetic field generated by the current. An indirect effect can be electrical fires caused by heating. Most engineered structures and systems require some form of protection against lightning to be designed in.\n\nThe damaging effects of high-energy EMP have led to the introduction of EMP weapons, from tactical missiles with a small radius of effect to nuclear bombs tailored for maximum EMP effect over a wide area.\n\nLike any electromagnetic interference, the threat from EMP is subject to control measures. This is true whether the threat is natural or man-made.\n\nTherefore, most control measures focus on the susceptibility of equipment to EMP effects, and hardening or protecting it from harm. Man-made sources, other than weapons, are also subject to control measures in order to limit the amount of pulse energy emitted.\n\nThe discipline of ensuring correct equipment operation in the presence of EMP and other RF threats is known as electromagnetic compatibility (EMC).\n\nTo test the effects of EMP on engineered systems and equipment, an EMP simulator may be used.\n\nInduced pulses are of much lower energy than threat pulses and so are more practicable to create, but they are less predictable. A common test technique is to use a current clamp in reverse, to inject a range of damped sine wave signals into a cable connected to the equipment under test. The damped sine wave generator is able to reproduce the range of induced signals likely to occur.\n\nSometimes the threat pulse itself is simulated in a repeatable way. The pulse may be reproduced at low energy in order to characterise the victim's response prior to damped sinewave injection, or at high energy to recreate the actual threat conditions.\n\nA small-scale ESD simulator may be hand-held.\n\nBench- or room-sized simulators come in a range of designs, depending on the type and level of threat to be generated.\n\nAt the top end of the scale, large outdoor test facilities incorporating high-energy EMP simulators have been built by several countries. The largest facilities are able to test whole vehicles including ships and aircraft for their susceptibility to EMP. Nearly all of these large EMP simulators used a specialized version of a Marx generator.\n\nExamples include the huge wooden-structured ATLAS-I simulator (also known as TRESTLE) at Sandia National Labs, New Mexico, which was at one time the world's largest EMP simulator. Papers on this and other large EMP simulators used by the United States during the latter part of the Cold War, along with more general information about electromagnetic pulses, are now in the care of the SUMMA Foundation, which is hosted at the University of New Mexico. The US Navy also has a large facility called the Electro Magnetic Pulse Radiation Environmental Simulator for Ships I (EMPRESS I).\n\nHigh-level EMP signals can pose a threat to human safety. In such circumstances, direct contact with a live electrical conductor should be avoided. Where this occurs, such as when touching a Van de Graaf generator or other highly-charged object, care must be taken to release the object and then discharge the body through a high resistance, in order to avoid the risk of a harmful shock pulse when stepping away.\n\nVery high electric field strengths can cause breakdown of the air and a potentially lethal arc current similar to lightning to flow, however electric field strengths of up to 200 kV/m (Kilovolts per metre) are regarded as safe.\n\nMagnetic pulses are generally safe, although extremely high pulse levels can affect brain activity, as in transcranial magnetic stimulation.\n\nThe popular media often depict EMP effects incorrectly, causing misunderstandings among the public and even professionals. Official efforts have been made in the US to disprove these misconceptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "13461439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13461439", "title": "Elk Neck State Park", "text": "Elk Neck State Park\n\nElk Neck State Park is a public recreation area located between Chesapeake Bay and the Elk River near the southern tip of the Elk Neck Peninsula in Cecil County, Maryland. The state park is home to the historic Turkey Point Light and offers land-based and water-based recreation. The park is located on MD 272, eight miles (13 km) south of the town of North East, and south of exit 100 on I-95. It is operated by the Maryland Department of Natural Resources.\n\nThe park had its genesis when, in 1936, naturalist Dr. William Abbott bequeathed his holdings along the Elk River to the state for use as a state park. Although he originally intended the land to be a gift to the Boy Scouts, a meeting with State Forester Fred W. Besley in 1935 persuaded Abbott to change the terms of his will. Following the state's purchase of additional acreage, the Civilian Conservation Corps created park improvements from 1937 to 1941.\n\nDating from 1833, the Turkey Point Lighthouse sits on a bluff overlooking the Upper Chesapeake Bay. The tower is a \"private aid to navigation\" maintained by a non-profit organization, Turkey Point Light Station, Inc., which offers weekend tours seasonally.\nThe park offers more than 250 campsites, rustic cabins, camper cabins, and youth group sites.\nThe park has of trails for hiking and biking. \nThe park offers a swimming beach, fishing, and crabbing, plus a boat launch and launch area for canoeing and kayaking.\n\nThe park is part of the Northeastern coastal forests ecoregion, with a landscape characterized by deep forests, bluffs, beaches, and marshlands. \n\nThe park was used as a filming location for the 1997 Clint Eastwood movie \"Absolute Power\" and as the setting of an episode of the television series \"Hannibal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3025906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025906", "title": "Hauterivian", "text": "Hauterivian\n\nThe Hauterivian is, in the geologic timescale, an age in the Early Cretaceous epoch or a stage in the Lower Cretaceous series. It spans the time between 132.9 ± 2 Ma and 129.4 ± 1.5 Ma (million years ago). The Hauterivian is preceded by the Valanginian and succeeded by the Barremian.\n\nThe Hauterivian was introduced in scientific literature by Swiss geologist Eugène Renevier in 1873. It is named after the Swiss town of Hauterive at the shore of Lake Neuchâtel.\n\nThe base of the Hauterivian is defined as the place in the stratigraphic column where the ammonite genus \"Acanthodiscus\" first appears. A reference profile for the base (a GSSP) had in 2009 not yet been established. The top of the Hauterivian (the base of the Barremian) is at the first appearance of ammonite species \"Spitidiscus hugii\".\n\nIn the ammonite biostratigraphy of the Tethys domain, the Hauterivian contains seven ammonite biozones:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19727009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19727009", "title": "Hyacinthe de Bougainville", "text": "Hyacinthe de Bougainville\n\nHyacinthe Yves Philippe Potentien, baron de Bougainville (26 December 1781 – 18 October 1846) was a French naval officer. He was the son of Louis-Antoine de Bougainville. He became Rear-Admiral on 1 May 1838.\n\nAs a young second-class midshipman of eighteen Hyacinthe de Bougainville participated in the 1800-02 Baudin expedition to Australia.\n\nHyacinthe de Bougainville sailed around the world from 1824 to 1826 onboard \"Thétis\" and \"Espérance\", sent by the Minister of the Navy and the Colonies, the duc de Clermont-Tonnerre.\nOn 12 January 1825, Hyacinthe de Bougainville led an embassy to Vietnam with Captain Courson de la Ville-Hélio, arriving in Da Nang, with the warships \"Thétis\" and \"Espérance\". Although they had numerous presents for the Emperor, and a 28 January 1824 letter from Louis XVIII, the ambassadors could not obtain an audience from Minh Mạng. Hyacinthe de Bougainville infiltrated Father Regéreau from the \"Thétis\" when it was anchored in Da Nang, triggering edicts of persecution against Christianity by Minh Mạng.\n\nBougainville visited New South Wales in 1825. That same year, he visited Port Jackson and Sydney where he set up a monument to La Pérouse and erected a grave for le Receveur in Botany Bay. He became acquainted with the leading colonial Sydney figures of the day including John Piper, Samuel Marsden, John Macarthur, and John Blaxland. The daughter of the latter, Harriot Blaxland Ritchie, became romantically involved with Bougainville.\n\n\"Journal de la Navigation Autour Du Globe de la Frégate Thétis et de la Corvette L'Espérance\" (Paris : Arthus Bertrand) 1837.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "608507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608507", "title": "Hypolimnion", "text": "Hypolimnion\n\nThe hypolimnion or under lake is the dense, bottom layer of water in a thermally-stratified lake. It is the layer that lies below the thermocline.\n\nTypically the hypolimnion is the coldest layer of a lake in summer, and the warmest layer during winter. Being at depth, it is isolated from surface wind-mixing during summer, and usually receives insufficient irradiance (light) for photosynthesis to occur.\n\nIn deep, temperate lakes, the bottom-most waters of the hypolimnion are typically close to 4 °C throughout the year. The hypolimnion may be much warmer in lakes at warmer latitudes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52034254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52034254", "title": "Isinya–Singida High Voltage Power Line", "text": "Isinya–Singida High Voltage Power Line\n\nThe Isinya–Singida High Voltage Power Line is a proposed high voltage electricity power line connecting the high voltage substation at Isinya, Kenya to another high voltage substation at Singida, Tanzania.\n\nThe power line will start at Isinya, in Kajiado County, about south of Nairobi, and run in a southerly direction for approximately to the border with Tanzania at Namanga.\n\nAt Namanga the power line will cross into Tanzania and follow a southerly direction to Arusha, a distance of about from Namanga. From Arusha the line will travel in a south-westerly direction for about to end at Singida. According to the African Development Bank, of the line are located in Kenya and are located in Tanzania, for total length of .\n\nAs far back as 2015, Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia began to explore the amount of electricity that can be moved along high voltage power lines linking the three countries. The objective was to exchange electricity between the Eastern Africa power pool to which both Kenya and Tanzania belong, and the Southern Africa power pool to which Tanzania ad Zambia belong. Each country would build and maintain the infrastructure within its borders Kenya and Tanzania sought a joint consultant to advise of the project. A joint Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) in both countries was carried out in 2014, funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB).\n\nIn October 2017, Ketraco, the Kenyan electricity transportation monopoly awarded the construction contract for a 400kV substation at Isinya and the 400kV high tension line from Isinya to Namanga, to North China Power Engineering Company Limited (NCPE). The work will be jointly financed by Kenyan government at US$4.25 million and the AfDB which will offer US$22.42 million in loans. Construction is expected to take 22 months.\n\nThe work in Tanzania involves the construction of approximately of double circuit high tension power lines, from Namanga, through Arusha to Singida, a 400kV substation in Arusha and another 400kV substation in Singida. The work is budgeted at US$258.82 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19526231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19526231", "title": "List of National Park System areas in New York", "text": "List of National Park System areas in New York\n\nThis is a list of National Park System areas in New York.\n\nNew York has 24 areas included in the United States' National Park Service (NPS) system. The NPS administers the nation's flagship national parks, none of which are in New York, and additional natural or historic parks and other sites.\n\nThere are some former designations in New York. (development needed)\n\n"}
{"id": "5910807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5910807", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Hereford and Worcester", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Hereford and Worcester\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Hereford and Worcester, England, United Kingdom. In England the body responsible for designating SSSIs is Natural England, which chooses a site because of its fauna, flora, geological or physiographical features. Hereford and Worcester was a county from 1974 to 1998, and it was designated an Area of Search by Natural England. Since 1998 Hereford and Worcester have been separate counties for local government purposes, but Natural England did not revise its list of counties to take account of the change until around 2014, and this Wikipedia list is still based on the pre-1998 counties. , there are 189 sites designated in this Area of Search. There are 27 sites with a purely geological interest, and 154 listed for biological interest. A further 8 sites are designated for both reasons.\n\nNatural England took over the role of designating and managing SSSIs from English Nature in October 2006 when it was formed from the amalgamation of English Nature, parts of the Countryside Agency and the Rural Development Service. Natural England, like its predecessor, uses the 1974–1996 county system and as such the same approach is followed here. The data in the table is taken from Natural England in the form of citation sheets for each SSSI, and the County Background Datasheet for Hereford and Worcester.\n\nFor other counties, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "5883029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5883029", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Kent", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Kent\n\nKent is a county in the south-eastern corner of England. It is bounded to the north by Greater London and the Thames Estuary, to the west by Sussex and Surrey, and to the south and east by the English channel and the North Sea. The county town is Maidstone. It is governed by Kent County Council, with twelve district councils, Ashford, Canterbury, Dartford, Dover, Folkestone and Hythe, Gravesham, Maidstone, Thanet, Tonbridge and Malling and Tunbridge Wells. Medway is a separate unitary authority. The chalk hills of the North Downs run from east to west through the county, with the wooded Weald to the south. The coastline is alternately flat and cliff-lined. \nIn England, Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) are designated by Natural England, which is responsible for protecting England's natural environment. Designation as an SSSI gives legal protection to the most important wildlife and geological sites. As of May 2018, there are 98 sites designated in Kent. There are 21 sites which have been designated for their geological interest, 67 for their biological interest, and 10 for both reasons.\n\nSixteen sites are Special Areas of Conservation, eight are Special Protection Areas, twenty-three are Nature Conservation Review sites, thirty-three are Geological Conservation Review sites, eleven are National Nature Reserves, nine are Ramsar internationally important wetland sites, eleven are Local Nature Reserves, thirteen are in Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, one is on the Register of Historic Parks and Gardens of Special Historic Interest in England and two contain Scheduled Monuments. Seventeen sites are managed by the Kent Wildlife Trust, four by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and seven by the National Trust.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6112093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6112093", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Shetland", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Shetland\n\nThe following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the Shetland Area of Search. For other areas, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "40260006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40260006", "title": "List of extreme temperatures in France", "text": "List of extreme temperatures in France\n\nHere is a list of the hottest and coldest temperatures ever recorded in various locations in the metropolitan regions of France since 1870, as well as of the extreme maximum and minimum temperature recorded in its overseas departments and territories.\n\n"}
{"id": "330133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330133", "title": "List of islands in the Indian Ocean", "text": "List of islands in the Indian Ocean\n\nThis is a list of islands in the Indian Ocean.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58450344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58450344", "title": "List of largest rodents", "text": "List of largest rodents\n\nThis is a list of largest rodents.\n\n"}
{"id": "19751930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19751930", "title": "List of mountains in Slovenia", "text": "List of mountains in Slovenia\n\nMountains of Slovenia are part of the Alps and of the Dinarides.\n\nThe Alps in Slovenia can be divided into:\n\n\nIn the Inner Carniola, the highest peaks are Veliki Snežnik (, part of the Snežnik plateau and the highest non-Alpine peak in Slovenia, and Suhi vrh (), part of the Nanos plateau. They're both part of the Dinaric Alps, a mountain chain that spans towards the southeast. The highest peak is Snežnik.\n\nPart of the Dinaric Alps are also the Gorjanci mountain range, and in the Slovenian Istria, Mt. Slavnik (1,028 m) and Mt. Vremščica (1,027 m).\n\nThis list contains height (above sea level) of some notable peaks in Slovenia.\n"}
{"id": "17365223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17365223", "title": "List of native New Zealand ferns", "text": "List of native New Zealand ferns\n\nThis is a list of native New Zealand ferns.\nThese are the true ferns in the Division Pteridophyta that are native to New Zealand.\nThe ferns of Cyathea and Dicksonia are tree ferns that can grow quite high, all the other genus groups are that of ground, climbing or perching ferns.\n\nThere are over 700 species in the genus Asplenium, the spleenworts. Around 20 are native to New Zealand, with \"A. aethiopicum\" naturalized since 2003.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9018066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9018066", "title": "List of primula diseases", "text": "List of primula diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of Primulas: English primrose.\n\n"}
{"id": "100075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100075", "title": "List of protected areas of Western Australia", "text": "List of protected areas of Western Australia\n\nWestern Australia is the second largest country subdivision in the world. It contains no fewer than separate Protected Areas with a total area of (land area: – 6.30% of the state’s area). Ninety-eight of these are National Parks, totalling (2.14% of the state’s area).\n\nAs of 2014, the following 58 conservation parks are listed as part of the National Reserve System with a total area of .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55307575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55307575", "title": "List of species protected by CITES Appendix III", "text": "List of species protected by CITES Appendix III\n\nThis is a list of species of plants and animals protected by Appendix III of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, commonly abbreviated as CITES. There are no fungi listed in any appendix.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6163914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6163914", "title": "List of tomato cultivars", "text": "List of tomato cultivars\n\nThere are over 10,000 tomato cultivars. This is a partial list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165457", "title": "Lucian", "text": "Lucian\n\nLucian of Samosata ( 125 AD – after 180 AD) was a Syrian satirist and rhetorician who is best known for his characteristic tongue-in-cheek style, with which he frequently ridiculed superstition, religious practices, and belief in the paranormal. Although his native language was probably Syriac, all of his extant works are written entirely in ancient Greek (mostly in the Atticized dialect popular during the Second Sophistic).\n\nEverything that is known about Lucian's life comes from his own writings, which are often difficult to interpret because of his extensive use of sarcasm. According to his oration \"The Dream\", he was the son of a lower middle class family from the village of Samosata along the banks of the Euphrates in the remote Roman province of Syria. As a young man, he was apprenticed to his uncle to become a sculptor, but, after a failed attempt at sculpting, he ran away to pursue an education in Ionia. He may have become a travelling lecturer and visited universities throughout the Roman Empire. After acquiring fame and wealth through his teaching, Lucian finally settled down in Athens for a decade, during which he wrote most of his extant works. In his old age, he may have been appointed as a highly-paid government official in Egypt, after which point he disappears from the historical record.\n\nLucian's works were wildly popular in antiquity and more than eighty writings attributed to him have survived to the present day, a considerably higher quantity than for most other classical writers. His most famous work is \"A True Story\", a tongue-in-cheek satire against authors who tell incredible tales, which is regarded by some as the earliest known work of science fiction. Lucian invented the genre of the comic dialogue, a parody of the traditional Platonic dialogue. His dialogue \"The Lover of Lies\" makes fun of people who believe in the supernatural and contains the oldest known version of \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice\". Lucian wrote numerous satires making fun of traditional stories about the gods including \"The Dialogues of the Gods\", \"Icaromenippus\", \"Zeus Rants\", \"Zeus Catechized\", and \"The Parliament of the Gods\". His \"Dialogues of the Dead\" focuses on the Cynic philosophers Diogenes and Menippus. \"Philosophies for Sale\" and \"The Banquet or Lapiths\" make fun of various philosophical schools, and \"The Fisherman or the Dead Come to Life\" is a defense of this mockery.\n\nLucian often ridicules public figures, such as the Cynic philosopher Peregrinus Proteus in his letter \"The Passing of Peregrinus\" and the fraudulent oracle Alexander of Abonoteichus in his treatise \"Alexander the False Prophet\". Lucian's treatise \"On the Syrian Goddess\" satirizes cultural distinctions between Greeks and Syrians and is the main source of information about the cult of Atargatis. Lucian had an enormous, wide-ranging impact on western literature and works inspired by his writings include Sir Thomas More's \"Utopia\", the works of François Rabelais, William Shakespeare's \"Timon of Athens\", and Jonathan Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\".\n\nLucian is not mentioned in any contemporary texts or inscriptions written by others and he is not included in Philostratus's \"Lives of the Sophists\". As a result of this, everything that is known about Lucian comes exclusively from his own writings. A variety of characters with names very similar to Lucian, including \"Lukinos,\" \"Lukianos,\" \"Lucius,\" and \"The Syrian\" appear throughout Lucian's writings. These have been frequently interpreted by scholars and biographers as \"masks\", \"alter-egos\", or \"mouthpieces\" of the author. Daniel S. Richter criticizes the frequent tendency to interpret such \"Lucian-like figures\" as self-inserts by the author and argues that they are, in fact, merely fictional characters Lucian uses to \"think with\" when satirizing conventional distinctions between Greeks and Syrians. He suggests that they are primarily a literary trope used by Lucian to deflect accusations that he as the Syrian author \"has somehow outraged the purity of Greek idiom or genre\" through his invention of the comic dialogue. British classicist Donald Russell states, \"A good deal of what Lucian says about himself is no more to be trusted than the voyage to the moon that he recounts so persuasively in the first person in \"True Stories\"\" and warns that \"it is foolish to treat [the information he gives about himself in his writings] as autobiography.\"\n\nLucian was born in the town of Samosata, located on the banks of the Euphrates river on the far eastern outskirts of the Roman Empire. Samosata had been the capital of Commagene until 72 AD when it was annexed by Vespasian and became part of the Roman province of Syria. The population of the town was mostly Syrian and Lucian's native tongue was probably Syriac, a form of Aramaic.\n\nDuring the time when Lucian lived, traditional Greco-Roman religion was in decline and its role in society had become largely ceremonial. As a substitute for traditional religion, many people in the Hellenistic world joined Mystery Cults, such as the Mysteries of Isis, Mithraism, the cult of Cybele, and the Eleusinian Mysteries. Superstition had always been common throughout ancient society, but it was especially prevalent during the second century. Most educated people of Lucian's time adhered to one of the various Hellenistic philosophies, of which the major ones were Stoicism, Platonism, Peripateticism, and Epicureanism. Every major town had its own university and these universities often employed professional travelling lecturers, who were frequently paid high sums of money to lecture about various philosophical teachings. The most prestigious center of learning was the city of Athens in Greece, which had a long intellectual history.\n\nAccording to Lucian's oration \"The Dream\", which classical scholar Lionel Casson states he probably delivered as an address upon returning to Samosata at the age of thirty-five or forty after establishing his reputation as a great orator, Lucian's parents were lower middle class and his uncles owned a local statue-making shop. Lucian's parents could not afford to give him a higher education, so, after he completed his elementary schooling, Lucian's uncle took him on as an apprentice and began teaching him how to sculpt. Lucian, however, soon proved to be poor at sculpting and ruined the statue he had been working on. His uncle beat him, causing him to run off. Lucian fell asleep and experienced a dream in which he was being fought over by the personifications of Statuary and of Culture. He decided to listen to Culture and thus sought out an education.\n\nAlthough \"The Dream\" has long been treated by scholars as a truthful autobiography of Lucian, its historical accuracy is questionable at best. Classicist Simon Swain calls it \"a fine but rather apocryphal version of [Lucian's] education\" and Karin Schlapbach calls it \"ironical\". Richter argues that it is not autobiographical at all, but rather a \"prolalia\", or playful literary work, and a \"complicated meditation on a young man's acquisition of \"paideia\"\" [i.e. education]. Russell dismisses \"The Dream\" as entirely fictional, noting, \"We recall that Socrates too started as sculptor, and Ovid's vision of Elegy and Tragedy (\"Amores\" 3.1) is all too similar to Lucian's.\"\n\nIn Lucian's \"Double Indictment\", the personification of Rhetoric delivers a speech in which she describes the unnamed defendant, who is described as a \"Syrian\" author of transgressive dialogues, at the time she found him, as a young man wandering in Ionia in Asia Minor \"with no idea what he ought to do with himself.\" She describes \"the Syrian\" at this stage in his career as \"still speaking in a barbarous manner and all but wearing a caftan [\"kandys\"] in the Assyrian fashion\". Rhetoric states that she \"took him in hand and... gave him \"paideia\".\" Scholars have long interpreted the \"Syrian\" in this work as Lucian himself and taken this speech to mean that Lucian ran away to Ionia, where he pursued his education. Richter, however, argues that the \"Syrian\" is not Lucian himself, but rather a literary device Lucian uses to subvert literary and ethnic norms.\n\nIonia was the center of rhetorical learning at the time The most prestigious universities of rhetoric were in Ephesus and Smyrna, but it is unlikely that Lucian could have afforded to pay the tuition at either of these schools. It is not known how Lucian obtained his education, but somehow he managed to acquire an extensive knowledge of rhetoric as well as classical literature and philosophy. Lucian mentions in his dialogue \"The Fisherman\" that he had initially attempted to apply his knowledge of rhetoric and become a lawyer, but that he had become disillusioned by the deceitfulness of the trade and resolved to become a philosopher instead. Lucian travelled across the Empire, lecturing throughout Greece, Italy, and Gaul. In Gaul, Lucian may have held a position as a highly-paid government professor.\n\nIn around 160, Lucian returned to Ionia as a wealthy celebrity. He visited Samosata and stayed in the east for several years. He is recorded as having been in Antioch in either 162 or 163. In around 165, he bought a house in Athens and invited his parents to come live with him in the city. Lucian must have married at some point during his travels, because in one of his writings he mentions having a son at this point. Lucian lived in Athens for around a decade, during which time he gave up lecturing and instead devoted his attention to writing. It was during this decade that Lucian composed nearly all his most famous works. Lucian wrote exclusively in Ancient Greek, mainly in the Atticized dialect popular during the Second Sophistic, but \"On the Syrian Goddess\", which is attributed to Lucian, is written in a highly successful imitation of Herodotus's Ionic dialect, leading some scholars to believe that Lucian may not be the real author. For unknown reasons, Lucian stopped writing around 175 and began travelling and lecturing again. During the reign of Emperor Commodus (180 – 192 AD), the aging Lucian may have been appointed to a lucrative government position in Egypt. After this point, he disappears from the historical record entirely, and nothing is known about his death.\n\nLucian's philosophical views are difficult to categorize due to his persistent use of irony and sarcasm. In \"The Fisherman\", Lucian describes himself as a champion of philosophy and throughout his other writings he characterizes philosophy as a morally constructive discipline, but he is critical of pseudo-philosophers, whom he portrays as greedy, bad-tempered, sexually immoral hypocrites. Lucian was not a member of any of the major philosophical schools. In his \"Philosophies for Sale\", he makes fun of members of every school and, in his \"Hermotimus\", he rejects all philosophical systems as contradictory and concludes that life is too short to determine which of them comes nearest to the truth, so the best solution is to rely on common sense.\n\nNonetheless, at other times, Lucian writes approvingly of individual philosophies. According to Everett Ferguson, Lucian was strongly influenced by the Cynics. \"The Dream or the Cock\", \"Timon the Misanthrope\", \"Charon or Inspectors\", and \"The Downward Journey or the Tyrant\" all display Cynic themes. Lucian was particularly indebted to Menippus, a Cynic philosopher and satirist of the third century BC. Lucian wrote an admiring biography of the philosopher Demonax, who was a philosophical eclectic, but whose ideology most closely resembled Cynicism. Demonax's main divergence from the Cynics was that he did not disapprove of ordinary life. Paul Turner observes that Lucian's \"Cynicus\" reads as a straightforward defense of Cynicism, but also remarks that Lucian savagely ridicules the Cynic philosopher Peregrinus in his \"Passing of Peregrinus\".\n\nLucian also greatly admired Epicurus, whom he describes in \"Alexander the False Prophet\" as \"truly holy and prophetic\". Later, in the same dialogue, he praises a book written by Epicurus:\nWhat blessings that book creates for its readers and what peace, tranquillity, and freedom it engenders in them, liberating them as it does from terrors and apparitions and portents, from vain hopes and extravagant cravings, developing in them intelligence and truth, and truly purifying their understanding, not with torches and squills [i. e. sea onions] and that sort of foolery, but with straight thinking, truthfulness and frankness.\n\nAccording to Turner, although Lucian makes fun of Skeptic philosophers, he displays a temperamental inclination towards that philosophy. Lucian was skeptical of oracles, though he was by no means the only person of his time to voice such skepticism. Lucian rejected belief in the paranormal, regarding it as superstition. In his dialogue \"The Lover of Lies\", he probably voices some of his own opinions through his character Tychiades, perhaps including the declaration by Tychiades that he does not believe in \"daemones\", phantoms, or ghosts because he has never seen such things. Tychiades, however, still professes belief in the gods' existence:\n\nLucian had a generally negative opinion of Herodotus and his historiography, which he viewed as faulty. The maxim that \"Eyes are better witnesses than ears\" is echoed repeatedly throughout several of Lucian's dialogues. Lucian was critical of Stoicism and Platonism, because he regarded them as encouraging of superstition. His \"Nigrinus\" superficially appears to be a \"eulogy of Platonism\", but may, in fact, be satirical, or merely an excuse to ridicule Roman society.\n\nOver eighty works attributed to Lucian have survived. These works belong to a diverse variety of styles and genres, and include comic dialogues, rhetorical essays, and prose fiction. Lucian's writings were targeted towards a highly-educated, upper-class Greek audience and make almost constant allusions to Greek cultural history, leading the classical scholar R. Bracht Branham to label Lucian's highly sophisticated style \"the comedy of tradition\". By the time Lucian's writings were rediscovered during the Renaissance, most of the works of literature referenced in them had been lost or forgotten, making it difficult for readers of later periods to understand his works.\n\nLucian was one of the earliest novelists in Western civilization. In \"A True Story\" (), a fictional narrative work written in prose, he parodies some of the fantastic tales told by Homer in the \"Odyssey\" and also the not-so-fantastic tales from the historian Thucydides. He anticipated \"modern\" science fiction themes including voyages to the moon and Venus, extraterrestrial life, interplanetary warfare, and artificial life, nearly two millennia before Jules Verne and H. G. Wells. The novel is often regarded as the earliest known work of science fiction.\n\nThe novel begins with an explanation that the story is not at all \"true\" and that everything in it is, in fact, a complete and utter lie. The narrative begins with Lucian and his fellow travelers journeying out past the Pillars of Heracles. Blown off course by a storm, they come to an island with a river of wine filled with fish and bears, a marker indicating that Heracles and Dionysus have traveled to this point, and trees that look like women. Shortly after leaving the island, they are caught up by a whirlwind and taken to the Moon, where they find themselves embroiled in a full-scale war between the king of the Moon and the king of the Sun over colonization of the Morning Star. Both armies include bizarre hybrid lifeforms. The armies of the Sun win the war by clouding over the Moon and blocking out the Sun's light. Both parties then come to a peace agreement. Lucian then describes life on the Moon and how it is different from life on Earth.\n\nAfter returning to Earth, the adventurers are swallowed by a 200-mile-long whale, in whose belly they discover a variety of fish people, whom they wage war against and triumph over. They kill the whale by starting a bonfire and escape by propping its mouth open. Next, they encounter a sea of milk, an island of cheese, and the Island of the Blessed. There, Lucian meets the heroes of the Trojan War, other mythical men and animals, as well as Homer and Pythagoras. They find sinners being punished, the worst of them being the ones who had written books with lies and fantasies, including Herodotus and Ctesias. After leaving the Island of the Blessed, they deliver a letter to Calypso given to them by Odysseus explaining that he wishes he had stayed with her so he could have lived eternally. They then discover a chasm in the Ocean, but eventually sail around it, discover a far-off continent and decide to explore it. The book ends abruptly with Lucian stating that their future adventures will be described in the upcoming sequels, a promise which a disappointed \"scholiast\" described as \"the biggest lie of all\".\n\nIn his \"Double Indictment\", Lucian declares that his proudest literary achievement is the invention of the \"satirical dialogue\", which was modeled on the earlier Platonic dialogue, but was comedic in tone rather than philosophical. The \"prolaliai\" to his \"Dialogues of the Courtesans\" suggests that Lucian acted out his dialogues himself as part of a comedic routine. Lucian's \"Dialogues of the Dead\" () is a satirical work centering around the Cynic philosophers Diogenes of Sinope and his pupil Menippus, who lived modestly while they were alive and are now living comfortably in the abysmal conditions of the Underworld, while those who had lived lives of luxury are in torment when faced by the same conditions. The dialogue draws on earlier literary precursors, including the \"nekyia\" in Book XI of Homer's \"Odyssey\", but also adds new elements not found in them. Homer's \"nekyia\" describes transgressors against the gods being punished for their sins, but Lucian embellished this idea by having cruel and greedy persons also be punished.\n\nIn his dialogue \"The Lover of Lies\" (), Lucian satirizes belief in the supernatural and paranormal through a framing story in which the main narrator, a skeptic named Tychiades, goes to visit an elderly friend named Eukrates. At Eukrates's house, he encounters a large group of guests who have recently gathered together due to Eukrates suddenly falling ill. The other guests offer Eukrates a variety of folk remedies to help him recover. When Tychiades objects that such remedies do not work, the others all laugh at him and try to persuade him to believe in the supernatural by telling him stories, which grow increasingly ridiculous as the conversation progresses. One of the last stories they tell is \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice\", which the German playwright Johann Wolfgang von Goethe later adapted into a famous ballad.\n\nLucian frequently made fun of philosophers and no school was spared from his mockery. In the dialogue \"Philosophies for Sale\", Lucian creates an imaginary slave market in which Zeus puts famous philosophers up for sale, including Pythagoras, Diogenes, Heraclitus, Socrates, Chrysippus, and Pyrrho, each of whom attempts to persuade the customers to buy his philosophy. In \"The Banquet, or Lapiths\", Lucian points out the hypocrisies of representatives from all the major philosophical schools. In \"The Fisherman, or the Dead Come to Life\", Lucian defends his other dialogues by comparing the venerable philosophers of ancient times with their unworthy contemporary followers. Lucian was often particularly critical of people who pretended to be philosophers when they really were not and his dialogue \"The Runaways\" portrays an imposter Cynic as the antithesis of true philosophy. His \"Symposium\" is a parody of Plato's \"Symposium\" in which, instead of discussing the nature of love, the philosophers get drunk, tell smutty tales, argue relentlessly over whose school is the best, and eventually break out into a full-scale brawl. In \"Icaromenippus\", the Cynic philosopher Menippus fashions a set of wings for himself in imitation of the mythical Icarus and flies to Heaven, where he receives a guided tour from Zeus himself. The dialogue ends with Zeus announcing his decision to destroy all philosophers, since all they do is bicker, though he agrees to grant them a temporary reprieve until spring. \"Nektyomanteia\" is a dialogue written in parallel to \"Icaromenippus\" in which, rather than flying to Heaven, Menippus descends to the underworld to consult the prophet Tiresias.\n\nLucian wrote numerous dialogues making fun of traditional Greek stories about the gods. His \"Dialogues of the Gods\" () consists of numerous short vignettes parodying a variety of the scenes from Greek mythology. The dialogues portray the gods as comically weak and prone to all the foibles of human emotion. Zeus in particular is shown to be a \"feckless ruler\" and a serial adulterer. Lucian also wrote several other works in a similar vein, including \"Zeus Catechized\", \"Zeus Rants\", and \"The Parliament of the Gods\". Throughout all his dialogues, Lucian displays a particular fascination with Hermes, the messenger of the gods, who frequently appears as a major character in the role of an intermediary who travels between worlds. \"The Dialogues of the Courtesans\" is a collection of short dialogues involving various courtesans. This collection is unique as one of the only surviving works of Greek literature to mention female homosexuality. It is also unusual for mixing Lucian's characters from other dialogues with stock characters from New Comedy; over half of the men mentioned in \"Dialogues of the Courtesans\" are also mentioned in Lucian's other dialogues, but almost all of the courtesans themselves are characters borrowed from the plays of Menander and other comedic playwrights.\n\nLucian's treatise \"Alexander the False Prophet\" describes the rise of Alexander of Abonoteichus, a charlatan who claimed to be the prophet of the serpent-god Glycon. Though the account is satirical in tone, it seems to be a largely accurate report of the Glycon cult and many of Lucian's statements about the cult have been confirmed through archaeological evidence, including coins, statues, and inscriptions. Lucian describes his own meeting with Alexander in which he posed as a friendly philosopher, but, when Alexander invited him to kiss his hand, Lucian bit it instead. Lucian reports that, aside from himself, the only others who dared challenge Alexander's reputation as a true prophet were the Epicureans (whom he lauds as heroes) and the Christians.\n\nLucian's treatise \"On the Syrian Goddess\" is a detailed description of the cult of the Syrian goddess Atargatis at Hierapolis. It is written in a faux-Ionic dialect and imitates the ethnographic methodology of the Greek historian Herodotus, which Lucian elsewhere derides as faulty. For generations, many scholars doubted the authenticity of \"On the Syrian Goddess\" because it seemed too genuinely reverent to have really been written by Lucian. More recently, scholars have come to recognize the book as satirical and have restored its Lucianic authorship.\n\nIn the treatise, Lucian satirizes the arbitrary cultural distinctions between \"Greeks\" and \"Assyrians\" by emphasizing the manner in which Syrians have adopted Greek customs and thereby effectively become \"Greeks\" themselves. The anonymous narrator of the treatise initially seems to be a Greek Sophist, but, as the treatise progresses, he reveals himself to actually be a native Syrian. Scholars dispute whether the treatise is an accurate description of Syrian cultural practices because very little is known about Hierapolis other than what is recorded in \"On the Syrian Goddess\" itself. Coins minted in the late fourth century BC, municipal decrees from Seleucid rulers, and a late Hellenistic relief carving have confirmed Lucian's statement that the city's original name was \"Manbog\" and that the city was closely associated with the cults of Atargatis and Hadad. A Jewish rabbi later listed the temple at Hierapolis as one of the five most important pagan temples in the Near East.\n\n\"Macrobii\" (\"Long-Livers\") is an essay about famous philosophers who lived for many years. It describes how long each of them lived, and gives an account of each of their deaths. In his treatises \"Teacher of Rhetoric\" and \"On Salaried Posts\", Lucian criticizes the teachings of master rhetoricians. His treatise \"On Dancing\" is a major source of information about Greco-Roman dance. In it, he describes dance as an act of \"mimesis\" (\"imitation\") and rationalizes the myth of Proteus as being nothing more than an account of a highly skilled Egyptian dancer. He also wrote about visual arts in \"Portraits\" and \"On Behalf of Portraits\". Lucian's biography of the philosopher Demonax eulogizes him as a great philosopher and portrays him as a hero of \"parrhesia\" (\"boldness of speech\"). In his treatise, \"How to Write History\", Lucian criticizes the historical methodology used by writers such as Herodotus and Ctesias, who wrote vivid and self-indulgent descriptions of events they had never actually seen. Instead, Lucian argues that the historian never embellish his stories and should place his commitment to accuracy above his desire to entertain his audience. He also argues the historian should remain absolutely impartial and tell the events as they really happened, even if they are likely to cause disapproval. Lucian names Thucydides as a specific example of a historian who models these virtues.\n\nIn his satirical letter \"The Passing of Peregrinus\" (), Lucian describes the death of the controversial Cynic philosopher Peregrinus Proteus, who had publicly immolated himself on a pyre at the Olympic Games of 165 AD. The letter is historically significant because it preserves one of the earliest pagan evaluations of Christianity. In the letter, one of Lucian's characters delivers a speech ridiculing Christians for their perceived credulity and ignorance, but he also affords them some level of respect on account of their morality. The speaker in the letter also refers to Jesus, describing him as a \"crucified Sophist\" who had lived in Palestine just over a century prior and had taught that his followers would attain immortality. In the letter \"Against the Ignorant Book Collector\", Lucian ridicules the common practice whereby Near Easterners collect massive libraries of Greek texts for the sake of appearing \"cultured\", but without actually reading any of them.\n\nSome of the writings attributed to Lucian, such as the \"Amores\" and the \"Ass\", are usually not considered genuine works of Lucian and are normally cited under the name of \"Pseudo-Lucian\". The \"Ass\" () is probably a summarized version of a story by Lucian, and contains largely the same basic plot elements as \"The Golden Ass\" (or \"Metamorphoses\") of Apuleius, but with fewer inset tales and a different ending. \"Amores\" is usually dated to the third or fourth centuries based on stylistic grounds.\n\nLucian's writings were mostly forgotten during the Middle Ages. The \"Suda\", a tenth-century Byzantine encyclopedia, concludes that Lucian's soul is burning in Hell for his negative remarks about Christians in the \"Passing of Peregrinus\". Lucian's writings were rediscovered during the Renaissance and almost immediately became popular with the Renaissance humanists. By 1400, there were just as many Latin translations of the works of Lucian as there were for the writings of Plato and Plutarch. By ridiculing plutocracy as absurd, Lucian helped facilitate one of Renaissance humanism's most basic themes. His \"Dialogues of the Dead\" were especially popular and were widely used for moral instruction. As a result of this popularity, Lucian's writings had a profound influence on writers from the Renaissance and the Early Modern period.\n\nMany early modern European writers adopted Lucian's lighthearted tone, his technique of relating a fantastic voyage through a familiar dialogue, and his trick of constructing proper names with deliberately humorous etymological meanings. During the Protestant Reformation, Lucian provided literary precedent for writers making fun of Catholic clergy. Desiderius Erasmus's \"Encomium Moriae\" (1509) displays Lucianic influences. Perhaps the most notable example of Lucian's impact was on the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries was on the French writer François Rabelais, particularly in his set of five novels, \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\", which was first published in 1532. Rebelais also is thought to be responsible for a primary introduction of Lucian to the French Renaissance and beyond through his translations of Lucian's works.\n\nLucian's \"True Story\" inspired both Sir Thomas More's \"Utopia\" (1516) and Jonathan Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726). Sandro Botticelli's paintings \"The Calumny of Apelles\" and \"Pallas and the Centaur\" are both based on descriptions of paintings found in Lucian's works. Lucian's prose narrative \"Timon the Misanthrope\" was the inspiration for William Shakespeare's tragedy \"Timon of Athens\" and the scene from \"Hamlet\" with the gravediggers echoes several scenes from \"Dialogues of the Dead\". Christopher Marlowe's famous verse \"Was this the face that launched a thousand ships/And burnt the topless towers of Ilium?\" is a paraphrase of a quote from Lucian. Francis Bacon called Lucian a \"contemplative atheist\".\n\nHenry Fielding, the author of \"The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling\" (1749), owned a complete set of Lucian's writings in nine volumes. He deliberately imitated Lucian in his \"Journey from This World and into the Next\" and, in \"The Life and Death of Jonathan Wild, the Great\" (1743), he describes Lucian as \"almost... like the true father of humour\" and lists him alongside Cervantes and Jonathan Swift as a true master of satire. In \"The Convent Garden Journal\", Fielding directly states in regard to Lucian that he had modeled his style \"upon that very author\". Nicolas Boileau-Despréaux, François Fénelon, Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle, and Voltaire all wrote adaptations of Lucian's \"Dialogues of the Dead\". According to Turner, Voltaire's \"Candide\" (1759) displays the characteristically Lucianic theme of \"refuting philosophical theory by reality\". Voltaire also wrote \"The Conversation between Lucian, Erasmus and Rabelais in the Elysian Fields\", a dialogue in which he treats Lucian as \"one of his masters in the strategy of intellectual revolution.\"\n\nDenis Diderot drew inspiration from the writings of Lucian in his \"Socrates Gone Mad; or, the Dialogues of Diogenes of Sinope\" (1770) and his \"Conversations in Elysium\" (1780). Lucian appears as one of two speakers in Diderot's dialogue \"Peregrinus Proteus\" (1791), which was based on \"The Passing of Peregrinus\". Lucian's \"True Story\" inspired Cyrano de Bergerac, whose writings later served as inspiration for Jules Verne. The German satirist Christoph Martin Wieland was the first person to translate the complete works of Lucian into German and he spent his entire career adapting the ideas behind Lucian's writings for a contemporary German audience. David Hume admired Lucian as a \"very moral writer\" and quoted him with reverence when discussing ethics or religion. Hume read Lucian's \"Kataplous\" or \"Downward Journey\" when he was on his deathbed.\n\n\"Kataplous, or Downward Journey\" also served as the source for Friedrich Nietzsche's concept of the \"Übermensch\" or \"Overman\". Nietzsche's declaration of a \"new and super-human way of laughing – at the expense of everything serious!\" echoes the exact wording of Tiresias's final advice to the eponymous hero of Lucian's dialogue \"Menippus\": \"Laugh a great deal and take nothing seriously.\" Professional philosophical writers since then have generally ignored Lucian, but Turner comments that \"perhaps his spirit is still alive in those who, like Bertrand Russell, are prepared to flavor philosophy with wit.\"\n\nIn the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, many classicists viewed Lucian's works negatively and read them with preconceived ideas in mind about the \"Oriental\" character. Many of these ideas were influenced by contemporary antisemitism, a \"reflexive and genteel\" form of which was common throughout English and German scholarly writings prior to World War II. The German classicist Eduard Norden admitted that he had, as a foolish youth, wasted time reading the works of Lucian, but, as an adult, had come to realize that Lucian was nothing more than an \"Oriental without depth or character... who has no soul and degrades the most soulful language.\"\n\nRudolf Helm, one of the leading scholars on Lucian in the early twentieth century, labelled Lucian as a \"thoughtless Syrian\" who \"possesses none of the soul of a tragedian\" and compared him to the Jewish German poet Heinrich Heine, who was known as the \"mockingbird in the German poetry forest.\" In his 1906 publication \"Lukian und Menipp\", Helm argued that Lucian's claims of generic originality, especially his claim of having invented the comic dialogue, were actually lies intended to cover up his almost complete dependence on Menippus, whom he asserted was the true inventor of the genre. Lucian's Syrian identity received renewed attention in the early twenty-first century as Lucian became seen as what Richter calls \"a sort of Second Sophistic answer to early twenty-first-century questions about cultural and ethnic hybridity.\" Richter states that Postcolonial critics have come to embrace Lucian as \"an early imperial paradigm of the 'ethno-cultural hybrid.'\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52555162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52555162", "title": "Metal vapor synthesis", "text": "Metal vapor synthesis\n\nIn chemistry, metal vapor synthesis (MVS) is a method for preparing metal complexes by combining freshly produced metal atoms or small particles with ligands. In contrast to the high reactivity of such freshly produced metal atoms, bulk metals typically are unreactive toward neutral ligands. The method has been used to prepare compounds that cannot be prepared by traditional synthetic methods, e.g. Ti(η-toluene). The technique relies on a reactor that evaporates the metal, allowing the vapor to impinge on a cold reactor wall that is coated with the organic ligand. The metal evaporates upon being heated resistively or irradiated with an electron beam. The apparatus operates under high vacuum. In a common implementation, the metal vapor and the organic ligand are co-condensed at liquid nitrogen temperatures.\n\nIn several case where compounds are prepared by MVS, related preparations employ conventional routes. Thus, tris(butadiene)molybdenum was first prepared by co-condensation of butadiene and Mo vapor, but yields are higher for the reduction of molybdenum(V) chloride in the presence of the diene.\n"}
{"id": "8232986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8232986", "title": "Midcontinent Rift System", "text": "Midcontinent Rift System\n\nThe Midcontinent Rift System (MRS) or Keweenawan Rift is a long geological rift in the center of the North American continent and south-central part of the North American plate. It formed when the continent's core, the North American craton, began to split apart during the Mesoproterozoic era of the Precambrian, about 1.1 billion years ago. The rift failed, leaving behind thick layers of igneous rock that are exposed in its northern reaches, but buried beneath later sedimentary formations along most of its western and eastern arms. Those arms meet at Lake Superior, which is contained within the rift valley. The lake's north shore in Ontario and Minnesota defines the northern arc of the rift. From the lake, the rift's eastern arm trends south to central lower Michigan, and possibly into Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Alabama. The western arm runs from Lake Superior southwest through portions of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, and Nebraska to northeastern Kansas, and possibly into Oklahoma.\n\nThe rock formations created by the rift included gabbro and granite intrusive rocks and basalt lavas. In the Lake Superior region, the upwelling of this molten rock may have been the result of a hotspot which produced a triple junction. The hotspot domed the rocks of the Lake Superior area. Voluminous basaltic lava flows erupted from the central axis of the rift, similar to the present-day rifting under way in the Afar Depression of the East African Rift system. \n\nThe southwest and southeast extensions represent two arms of the triple junction while a third failed arm extends north into Ontario as the Nipigon Embayment. This failed arm includes Lake Nipigon, Ontario.\n\nThe rift system may have been the result of extensional forces behind the continental collision of the Grenville Orogeny to the east which in part overlaps the timing of the rift development. Later compressive forces from the Grenville Orogeny likely played a major role in the rift's failure and closure. Had the rifting process continued, the eventual result would have been sundering of the North American craton and creation of a sea. The Midcontinent Rift appears to have progressed almost to the point where the ocean intruded. But after about 15–22 million years the rift failed. The Midcontinent Rift is the deepest closed or healed rift yet discovered; no known deeper rift ever failed to become an ocean.\n\nLake Superior occupies a basin created by the rift. Near that lake, rocks produced by the rift can be found on the surface of Isle Royale and the Keweenaw Peninsula of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, northwest Wisconsin, and on the North Shore of Superior in Minnesota and Ontario. Similar rocks are exposed as far south as Interstate Park near Saint Paul, Minnesota, but elsewhere the rift is buried beneath more recent sedimentary rocks up to thick. Where buried, the rift has been mapped by gravity anomalies (its dense basaltic rock increases gravity locally),\naeromagnetic surveys, and seismic data.\n\nA slightly older but possibly related geologic feature is the Mackenzie Large Igneous Province in Canada, which extends from the Arctic in Nunavut to near the Great Lakes in Northwestern Ontario.\n\nThe Proterozoic Nonesuch Shale formation in the Keweenawan Rift contains enough organic carbon (greater than 0.5%) to be considered a potential source rock for petroleum. Oil identified as Precambrian has been found seeping out of the Nonesuch Shale in the White Pine mine in Michigan. A few deep wells were drilled to explore for oil and gas in rift rocks as far southwest as Kansas. No oil and gas were found, but the explorations did make some deep rock samples available. These include two \"dry holes\" drilled by Amoco: a well in Alger County, Michigan in 1987 and 1988, and one in Bayfield County, Wisconsin to a depth of in 1992. In 1987 Amoco also drilled a dry hole that penetrated rift sediments in Iowa.\n\nThe Michigan Copper Country in the Upper Peninsula and Isle Royale contains major native copper deposits in Keweenawan-age rocks associated with the rift. A copper mining industry was developed in Precolumbian times, reactivated in the 1840s and continued for more than a century. Some low-grade copper and nickel deposits, among the largest in the world, also exist in the Duluth Complex North of the lake. Once thought to be uneconomic to mine, these deposits have attracted renewed interest from resource companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5074354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074354", "title": "Natural gas prices", "text": "Natural gas prices\n\nNatural gas prices, as with other commodity prices, are mainly driven by supply and demand fundamentals. However, natural gas prices may also be linked to the price of crude oil and/or petroleum products, especially in continental Europe. Natural gas prices in the US had historically followed oil prices, but in the recent years, it has decoupled from oil and are now trending somewhat with coal prices.\n\nThe current surge in unconventional oil and gas in the U.S. has resulted in lower gas prices in the U.S. This has led to discussions in Asian oil-linked gas markets to import gas based on the Henry Hub index, which was, until very recently, the most widely used reference for US natural gas prices.\n\nDepending on the marketplace, the price of natural gas is expressed in US dollars (or other currency) per 1 million British thermal units (MMBtu), thousand cubic feet (Mcf), or 1,000 cubic meters. Note that, for natural gas price comparisons, $ per MMBtu multiplied by 1.025 = $ per Mcf of pipeline-quality gas, which is what is delivered to consumers. For rough comparisons, one million Btu is approximately equal to a thousand cubic feet of natural gas. Pipeline-quality gas has a BTU value slightly higher than that of pure methane, which has 1,012 BTU per cubic foot. Natural gas as it comes out of the ground is most often predominantly methane, but may have a wide range of BTU values, from much lower (due to dilution by non-hydrocarbon gases) to much higher (due to the presence of ethane, propane, and heavier compounds) than standard pipeline-quality gas.\n\nThe natural gas market in the United States is split between the financial (futures) market, based on the NYMEX futures contract, and the physical market, the price paid for actual deliveries of natural gas and individual delivery points around the United States. Market mechanisms in Europe and other parts of the world are similar, but not as well developed or complex as in the United States.\n\nThe standardized NYMEX natural gas futures contract is for delivery of 10,000 mmBtu (10,000 million Btu) of energy (approximately of gas) at Henry Hub in Louisiana over a given delivery month consisting of a varying number of days. As a coarse approximation, 1000 ft3 of natural gas ≈ 1 MMBtu ≈ 1 GJ. Monthly contracts expire 3–5 days in advance of the first day of the delivery month, at which points traders may either settle their positions financially with other traders in the market (if they have not done so already) or choose to \"go physical\" and accept delivery of physical natural gas (which is actually quite rare in the financial market).\n\nIt should be noted that most financial transactions for natural gas actually take place off exchange in the over-the-counter (\"OTC\") markets using \"look alike\" contracts that match the general terms and characteristics of the NYMEX futures contract and settle against the final NYMEX contract value, but that are not subject to the regulations and market rules required on the actual exchange.\n\nIt is also important to note that nearly all participants in the financial gas market, whether on or off exchange, participate solely as a financial exercise in order to profit from the net cash flows that occur when financial contracts are settled among counterparties at the expiration of a trading contract. This practice allows for the hedging of financial exposure to transactions in the physical market by allowing physical suppliers and users of natural gas to net their gains in the financial market against the cost of their physical transactions that will occur later on. It also allows individuals and organizations with no need or exposure to large quantities of physical natural gas to participate in the natural gas market for the sole purpose of gaining from trading activities.\n\nIn 2015-Nov Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot price was - 2.09 за Million Btu ($77,133 per thousand cubic meters) \nGenerally speaking, physical prices at the beginning of any calendar month at any particular delivery location are based on the final settled forward financial price for a given delivery period, plus the settled \"basis\" value for that location (see below). Once a forward contract period has expired, gas is then traded daily in a \"day ahead market\" wherein prices for any particular day (or occasional 2-3 day period when weekends and holidays are involved) are determined on the preceding day by traders using localized supply and demand conditions, in particular weather forecasts, at a particular delivery location. The average of all of the individual daily markets in a given month is then referred to as the \"index\" price for that month at that particular location, and it is not uncommon for the index price for a particular month to vary greatly from the settled futures price (plus basis) from a month earlier.\n\nMany market participants, especially those transacting in gas at the wellhead stage, then add or subtract a small amount to the nearest physical market price to arrive at their ultimate final transaction price.\n\nOnce a particular day's gas obligations are finalized in the day-ahead market, traders (or more commonly lower-level personnel in the organization known as, \"schedulers\") will work together with counterparties and pipeline representatives to \"schedule\" the flows of gas into (\"injections\") and out of (\"withdrawals\") individual pipelines and meters. Because, in general, injections must equal withdrawals (i.e. the net volume injected and withdrawn on the pipeline should equal zero), pipeline scheduling and regulations are a major driver of trading activities, and quite often the financial penalties inflicted by pipelines onto shippers who violate their terms of service are well in excess of losses a trader may otherwise incur in the market correcting the problem.\n\nBecause market conditions vary between Henry Hub and the roughly 40 or so physical trading locations around United States, financial traders also usually transact simultaneously in financial \"basis\" contracts intended to approximate these difference in geography and local market conditions. The rules around these contracts - and the conditions under which they are traded - are nearly identical to those for the underlying gas futures contract.\n\nBecause the U.S. natural gas market is so large and well developed and has many independent parts, it enables many market participants to transact under complex structures and to use market instruments that are not otherwise available in a simple commodity market where the only transactions available are to purchase or sell the underlying product. For instance, options and other derivative transactions are very common, especially in the OTC market, as are \"swap\" transactions where participants exchange rights to future cash flows based on underlying index prices or delivery obligations or time periods. Participants use these tools to further hedge their financial exposure to the underlying price of natural gas.\n\nThe demand for natural gas is mainly driven by the following factors:\nWeather conditions can significantly affect natural gas demand and supply. Cold temperatures in the winter increase the demand for space heating with natural gas in commercial and residential buildings.\n\nNatural gas demand usually peaks during the coldest months of the year (December–February) and is lowest during the \"shoulder\" months (May–June and September–October). During the warmest summer months (July–August), demand increases again. Due to the shift in population in the United States toward the sun belt, summer demand for natural gas is rising faster than winter demand.\n\nTemperature effects are measured in terms of 'heating degree days' (HDD) during the winter, and 'cooling degree days'(CDD) during the summer. HDDs are calculated by subtracting the average temperature for a day from 65 degrees. Thus, if the average temperature for a day is 50 degrees, there are 15 HDDs. If the average temperature is above 65 degrees, HDD is zero.\n\nCooling degree days are also measured by the difference between the average temperature and 65 degrees. Thus, if the average temperature is 80 degrees, there are 15 CDDs. If the average temperature is below 65 degrees, CDD is zero.\n\nHurricanes can affect both the supply of and demand for natural gas. For example, as hurricanes approach the Gulf of Mexico, offshore natural gas platforms are shut down as workers evacuate, thereby shutting in production. In addition, hurricanes can also cause severe destruction to offshore (and onshore) production facilities. For example, Hurricane Katrina (2005) resulted in massive shut-ins of natural gas production.\n\nHurricane damage can also reduce natural gas demand. The destruction of power lines interrupting electricity produced by natural gas can result in significant reduction in demand for a given area (e.g., Florida).\n\nChanging demographics also affects the demand for natural gas, especially for core residential customers. In the US for instance, recent demographic trends indicate an increased population movement to the Southern and Western states. These areas are generally characterized by warmer weather, thus we could expect a decrease in demand for heating in the winter, but an increase in demand for cooling in the summer. As electricity currently supplies most of the cooling energy requirements, and natural gas supplies most of the energy used for heating, population movement may decrease the demand for natural gas for these customers. However, as more power plants are fueled by natural gas, natural gas demand could in fact increase.\n\nThe state of the economy can have a considerable effect on the demand for natural gas in the short term. This is particularly true for industrial and to a lesser extent the commercial customers. When the economy is booming, output from the industrial sectors generally increases. On the other hand, when the economy is experiencing a recession, output from industrial sectors drops. These fluctuations in industrial output accompanying the economy affects the amount of natural gas needed by these industrial users. For instance, during the economic recession of 2001, U.S. natural gas consumption by the industrial sector fell by 6 percent.\n\nTariff increases and levels of household income also influence the demand for natural gas. A 2016 study assesses the expected poverty and distributional effects of a natural gas price reform – in the context of Armenia; it estimates that a significant tariff increase of about 40% contributed to an estimated 8% of households to substitute natural gas mainly with wood as their source of heating - and it also pushed an estimated 2.8% of households into poverty (i.e. below the national poverty line). This study also outlines the methodological and statistical assumptions and constraints that arise in estimating causal effects of energy reforms on household demand and poverty.\nSupply and demand dynamics in the marketplace determine the short term price for natural gas. However, this can work in reverse as well. The price of natural gas can, for certain consumers, affect its demand. This is particularly true for those consumers who have the ability to switch the fuel which they consume. In general the core customers (residential and commercial) do not have this ability, however, a number of industrial and electric generation consumers have the capacity to switch between fuels. For instance, when natural gas prices are extremely high, electric generators may switch from using natural gas to using cheaper coal or fuel oil. This fuel switching then leads to a decrease for the demand of natural gas, which usually tends to drop its price.\n\nNorth American natural gas injections (positive) represent additional demand and compete with alternative uses such as gas for heating or for power generation. Natural gas storage levels significantly affect the commodity’s price. When the storage levels are low, a signal is being sent to the market indicating that there is a smaller supply cushion and prices will be rising. On the other hand, when storage levels are high, this sends a signal to the market that there is greater supply flexibility and prices will tend to drop.\n\nExports are another source of demand. In North America, gas is exported within its forming countries, Canada, the US and Mexico as well as abroad to countries such as Japan.\nThe supply for natural gas is mainly driven by the following factors:\n\nThe ability to transport natural gas from the well heads of the producing regions to the consuming regions affects the availability of supply in the marketplace. The interstate and intrastate pipeline infrastructure has limited capacity and can only transport so much natural gas at any one time. This has the effect of limiting the maximum amount of natural gas that can reach the market. The current pipeline infrastructure is quite developed, with the EIA estimating that the daily delivery capacity of the grid is . However, natural gas pipeline companies should continue to expand the pipeline infrastructure in order to meet growing future demand.\nThe coming addition of the Canadian Pipeline looks to provide additional resources for the North American populace CommercialNG.com \n\nAs natural gas injections (positive) represent additional demand, withdrawals (negative) represent an additional source of supply which can be accessed quickly. The more storage banks like shale deposits used give more cushion for the natural gas markets.\n\nThe amount of natural gas produced both from associated and non-associated sources can be controlled to some extent by the producers. The drilling rates and gas prices form a feedback loop. When supply is low relative to demand, prices rise; this gives a market signal to the producer to increase the number of rigs drilling for natural gas. The increased supply will then lead to a decrease in the price.\n\nNatural phenomena can significantly affect natural gas production and thus supply. Hurricanes, for example, can affect the offshore production and exploitation of natural gas. This is because safety requirements may mandate the temporary shut down of offshore production platforms. Tornadoes can have a similar effect on onshore production facilities.\n\nEquipment malfunction, although not frequent, could temporarily disrupt the flow across a given pipeline at an important market center. This would ultimately decrease the supply available in that market. On the other hand, technical developments in engineering methods can lead to more abundant supply.\n\nImports are a source of supply. In North America, gas is imported from several countries, Canada and the US as well as abroad in the form of LNG from countries such as Trinidad, Algeria and Nigeria.\n\nThe chart shows a 75-year history of annual United States natural gas production and average wellhead prices from 1930 through 2005. Prices paid by consumers were increased above those levels by processing and distribution costs. Production is shown in billions of cubic meters per year, and average wellhead pricing is shown in United States dollars per thousand cubic meters, adjusted to spring, 2006, by the U.S. Consumer Price Index.\n\nThrough the 1960s the U.S. was self-sufficient in natural gas and wasted large parts of its withdrawals by venting and flaring. Gas flares were common sights in oilfields and at refineries. U.S. natural gas prices were relatively stable at around (2006 US) $30/Mcm in both the 1930s and the 1960s. Prices reached a low of around (2006 US) $17/Mcm in the late 1940s, when more than 20 percent of the natural gas being withdrawn from U.S. reserves was vented or flared.\n\nBeginning in 1954, the Federal Power Commission regulated the price of US natural gas transported across state lines. The commission set the price of gas below the market rate, resulting in price distortions. The low prices encouraged consumption and discouraged production. By the 1970s, there were shortages of price-regulated interstate gas, while unregulated gas within the gas-producing states (intrastate gas) was plentiful, but more expensive. By 1975, nearly half the marketed gas in the US was sold to the intrastate market, resulting in shortages during 1976 and 1977 in the Midwest that caused factories and schools to close temporarily for lack of natural gas. The federal government progressively deregulated the price of natural gas starting in 1978, and ending with complete federal price deregulation in 1993.\n\nWhile supply interruptions have caused repeated spikes in pricing since 1990, longer range price trends respond to limitations in resources and their rates of development. As of 2006 the U.S. Interior Department estimated that the Outer Continental Shelf of the United States held more than 15 trillion cubic meters of recoverable natural gas, equivalent to about 25 years of domestic consumption at present rates. Total U.S. natural gas reserves were then estimated at 30 to 50 trillion cubic meters, or about 40 to 70 years consumption.\nThe new technologies of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling have increased these estimates of recoverable reserves to many hundreds of trillion cubic feet. Hydraulic fracturing has reduced the Henry Hub spot price of natural gas considerably since 2008. The increased shale gas production leads to a shift of supply away from the south to the northeast and midwest of the country. A recent study found that, on average, natural gas prices have gone down by more than 30% in counties above shale deposits compared to the rest of the US, highlighting that natural gas markets have become less integrated due to pipeline capacity constraints.\n\nPrices of natural gas for end-consumers vary greatly throughout Europe. One of the main objectives of the projected single EU energy market is a common pricing structure for gas products. A recent study suggests that the expansion of shale gas production in the U.S. has caused prices to drop relative to other countries, especially Europe and Asia, leaving natural gas in the U.S. cheaper by a factor of three. It is expected that the TTIP trade deal between the U.S. and Europe opens up access to cheap American natural gas, which allow Europe to diversify its supply base, but may threaten the Renewable Energy transition. \n\nCurrently, Europe's main natural gas supplier is Russia. Major pipelines pass through Ukraine and there have been several disputes on the supply and transition prices between Ukraine and Russia. \n\nIn September 2013, it was reported that multiple factors have conspired to cause Europe as a whole to decrease its use of natural gas and make more use of coal. The report also contains updated price trends.\n\nIn South America, the second largest supplier of natural gas is Bolivia. \nThe price which Bolivia is paid for its natural gas is roughly US$3.25 to Brazil and US$3.18 to Argentina. Other sources state that Brazil pays between US$3.15/MMBtu and US$3.60/MMBtu (not including US$1.50/MMBtu in Petrobras extraction and transportation costs). The price of gas in the US as a whole is between US$5.85/MMBtu (21 May 2006), US$7.90/MMBtu (April 2006) & US$6.46/MMBtu (June 2006). Though several years ago the price of natural gas spiked at $14 in California due to lack of pipeline capacity to and within California, and also due to power outages. While according to \"Le Monde\", Brazil and Argentina pay US$2 per thousand cubic feet, which costs between $2.21 to $2.28 per mmBTU in California according to Reuters.\n\n"}
{"id": "615194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615194", "title": "Oil Pollution Act of 1990", "text": "Oil Pollution Act of 1990\n\nThe Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA) (101 H.R.1465, P.L. 101-380) was passed by the 101st United States Congress and signed by President George H. W. Bush. It works to avoid oil spills from vessels and facilities by enforcing removal of spilled oil and assigning liability for the cost of cleanup and damage, requires specific operating procedures; defines responsible parties and financial liability; implements processes for measuring damages; specifies damages for which violators are liable; and establishes a fund for damages, cleanup, and removal costs. This statute has resulted in instrumental changes in the oil production, transportation, and distribution industries.\n\nLaws governing oil spills in the United States began in 1851 with the Limitation of Liability Act. This statue, in an attempt to protect the shipping industry, stated that vessel owners were liable for incident-related costs up to the post-incident value of their vessel. The shortcomings of this law were revealed in 1967 with the release of over 100,000 tons of crude oil into the English Channel from the Torrey Canyon. Of the $8 million of cleanup-related costs, the owners of the Torrey Canyon were held liable for only $50—the value of the only remaining Torrey Canyon lifeboat. In the meantime, the Oil Pollution Act of 1924 had passed, but this statue only limited liability for \"deliberate\" discharge of oil into marine waters.\n\nTwo years following the Torrey Canyon spill, an oil platform eruption in the Santa Barbara Channel made national headlines and thrust oil pollution into the public spot light. As a result, in 1970, Congress placed oil pollution under the authority of the Federal Water Pollution Act (FWPA) of 1965, which later became the Clean Water Act of 1972 and had previously only covered sewage and Industrial discharge. The FWPA set specific liability limitations. For example, vessels transporting oil were liable only up to $250,000 or $150 per gross ton. These limitations rarely covered the cost of removal and cleanup, let alone damages.\n\nIn the decades to follow, several other laws that dealt with oil spill liability and compensation were passed. These statues include: the Ports and Waterways Safety Act of 1972, the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act of 1973, the Deep Water Port Act of 1974, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act of 1978, and the Alaska Oil Spill Commission of 1990. However, this fragmented collection of federal and state laws provided only limited safeguards against the hazards of oils spills. In 1976, a bill to create a cohesive safe measure for oil pollution was introduced to Congress. Neither the House of Representatives nor the Senate could agree on a single statue and the bill fell out of consideration numerous times.\n\nOn March 24, 1989, the Exxon Valdez hit aground in the Prince Williams Sound and spilled nearly 11 million gallons of crude oil—the largest marine oil spill in recorded history up to that point. Soon afterward, in June 1989, three smaller spills occurred within coastal waters of the United States. This was timely evidence that oil spills were not uncommon.\n\nAlaska Governor Steve Cowper authorized the creation of the Alaska Oil Spill Commission in 1989 to examine the causes of the Exxon Valdez oil spill and issue recommendations on potential policy changes. Cowper appointed Walter B. Parker, a longtime transportation consultant and public official, as the chairman of the commission. Under Parker, the Commission issued 52 recommendations for improvements to industry, state, and federal regulations. 50 of these recommendations were worked into the Oil Pollution Act bill that was introduced into legislation on March 16, 1989 by Walter B. Jones, Sr., a Democratic Party congressman from North Carolina's 1st congressional district.\n\n\nTitle I. Oil Pollution Liability and Compensation\n\nTitle II. Conforming Amendments\n\nTitle III. International Oil Pollution Prevention and Removal\n\nTitle IV. Prevention and Removal Subtitle A – PreventionSubtitle B – RemovalSubtitle C – Penalties and MiscellaneousTitle V. Prince William Sound Provisions\n\nTitle VI. Miscellaneous\n\nTitle VII. Oil Pollution Research and Development Program\n\nTitle VIII. Trans-Alaska Pipeline SystemSubtitle A – Improvements to Trans-Alaska Pipeline SystemSubtitle B – PenaltiesSubtitle C – Provisions Applicable to Alaska NativesTitle IX. Amendments to Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, Etc.\n\nA responsible party under the Oil Pollution Act is one who is found accountable for the discharge or substantial threat of discharge of oil from a vessel or facility into navigable waters, exclusive economic zones, or the shorelines of such covered waters. Responsible parties are strictly, jointly, and severally liable for the cost of removing the oil in addition to any damages linked to the discharge. Unlike the liability for removal costs which are uncapped, liability for damages is limited as discussed in further detail below. Furthermore, the Oil Pollution Act allows for additional liability enacted by other relevant state laws.\n\nUnder the Oil Pollution Act, federal, tribal, state, and any other person can recover removal costs from a responsible party so long as such entity has incurred costs from carrying out oil removal activities in accordance with the Clean Water Act National Contingency Plan. Reimbursement claims must first be made to the responsible party. If the potentially responsible party refutes liability or fails to distribute the reimbursement within 90 days of the claim, the claimant may file suit in court or bring the claim to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund described below. In some instances, claims for removal cost reimbursement can be initially brought to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund thus sidestepping the responsible party. For example, claimants advised by the EPA, governors of affected states, and American claimants for incidents involving foreign vessels or facilities may initially present their claims to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. When claims for removal cost reimbursement are brought to the fund, the claimant must prove that removal costs were sustained from activities required to avoid or alleviate effects of the incident and that such actions were approved or directed by the federal on-scene coordinator.\n\nIn a manner similar to that described above, costs for damages can be recovered from a responsible party. However, the Oil Pollution Act only covers certain categories of damages. These categories include: natural resource damages, damages to real or personal property, loss of subsistence use, loss of government revenues, loss of profits or impaired earning capacity, damaged public services, and damage assessment costs. Additionally, some categories are recoverable for any person impacted by the incident while others are only recoverable by federal, tribal, and state governments. Furthermore, the Oil Pollution Act proscribes limits to liability for damages based on the responsible party, the particular incident, and the type of vessel or facility from which the discharge occurred.\n\nThe Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund is a trust fund managed by the federal government and financed by a per-barrel tax on crude oil produced domestically in the United States and on petroleum products imported to the United States for consumption. The fund was created in 1986, but use of the fund was not authorized until the Oil Pollution Act's passage in 1990. The funds may be called upon to cover the cost of federal, tribal, state, and claimant oil spill removal actions and damage assessments as well as unpaid liability and damages claims. No more than one billion dollars may be withdrawn from the fund per spill incident. Over two decades of court cases have demonstrated that obtaining funding from the Oil Pollution Spill Liability Fund can be a difficult task.\n\nPresident Bush acknowledged the changes the world would have to endure when signing the Oil Pollution Act and as a result, he pushed the Senate to quickly ratify the new international protocols. The reactions from industries were negative. Industry objected that the Oil Pollution Act would hinder the free flow in the trade of imported oil in the Waters of the United States. Not only does the OPA impose restrictions on trading imported oil overseas, but it also implements the state oil liability and compensation statutes, which they view as further restricting free trade. After OPA was enacted, the shipping industry threatened to boycott the ports of the United States to protest this new industry liability in both federal and state laws. In particular, the oil and shipping industries objected to the inconsistency between the OPA and the international, federal and state laws that are impacted. As a result of the OPA enactment, certain insurance companies refused to issue certifications of financial liability under the Oil Pollution Act to avoid potential responsibility and compensation in the case of a disaster.\n\nPresident Bush also predicted that the enactment of the OPA could lead to larger oil shipping companies being replaced by the smaller shipping companies to avoid liability. In particular, smaller companies with limited resources would lack the finances to remediate oil spill disasters. Not just the oil industry, but also the vessel owners and operators would be held liable for an oil spill, facing a significant increase in financial responsibility. The OPA's liability increase for vessel owners raised fears and concerns from the vast majority of the shipping industry. Vessel owners objected that additional oil spill penalties imposed by the states are free from OPA limitations of the Limitation of Liability Act of 1851. Ultimately, the threat of unlimited liability under the OPA and other state statutes has led countless oil shipping companies to reduce oil trade to and from the ports of the United States.\n\nHowever, there were positive reactions from the oil industries despite the newly enforced codes and regulations. In 1990, the oil industry united to form the Marine Spill Response Corporation (MRSC), a non-profit corporation whose expenses would be compensated by the oil producers and transporters. The major MRSC responsibility was to develop new response plans for oil spills cleanups and for the OPA-required remediation. Shipping companies like the Exxon Shipping reacted positively OPA's efforts to reduce their risk of liability for oil spill disasters. To help ensure OPA compliance, Exxon Shipping compiled all state and federal regulations to which they must abide. Several independent and non-U.S. companies and operators, however, may avoid operations in the United States ports due to the OPA liability. Though the majority of elicited reactions and criticism from the enactment of OPA has been negative, it has nevertheless led to founding and designing safer requirements for ships and global oil trade.\n\nThe Oil Pollution act imposes long term impacts due to the potential for unlimited liability and the statute's that hold insurers to serve as guarantors, which has ultimately resulted in the refusal of insurance companies to issue agreements of financial liability to vessel operators and owners. Thus, the inability to acquire proof of financial liability results in vessels not being able to legally enter waters of the United States. Since OPA does not exempt vessel creditors to enter U.S. waters, there is a disincentive for any lender to finance fleet modernization and or replacement. Lastly, OPA has the ability to directly impact the domestic oil production industry due to the rigorous offshore facility provisions.\n\n\nBefore the Oil Pollution was enacted, offshore facilities were required to provide evidence that declared financial responsibility of $35 million. After OPA, these offshore facilities had to increase their proof of financial responsibility by 4 times and OPA's requirement of financial responsibility expanded to include facilities in state waters as well. Facilities in state waters that are subject to the $150 million requirement includes pipelines, marina fuel docks, tanks, and oil production facilities that are located in, on, or under state coastal waters, and are adjacent to inland channels, lakes, and wetlands. The most evident impact of the enactment of OPA, is on the oil producers within the Gulf of Mexico. Many offshore facilities are located in the Gulf of Mexico and in the marshes and wetlands of Louisiana. Major producers are most likely able to meet OPA's requirement of financial responsibility, however, the major oil companies within the Gulf of Mexico have exponentially withdrawled the operation of their offshore facilities.\n\nDue to environmental pressures and the restrictive governmental regulations enforced by OPA, substantial proposals of exploration and production in the United States have been withdrawn. As a result of major companies withdrawing their plans to drill, many smaller, independent producers had entered to profitize. By October 1993, 93% of all oil and natural gas exploration and drilling were from independents producers. Of these new exploration projects, approximately 85% of drilling operations were in the Gulf of Mexico. The independent oil producers generated nearly 40% of the crude oil in the United States and 60% of domestic natural gas.\n\nIn the case of oil pollution caused by other nations (especially ships), International treaties such as the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage and International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage which have a similar intention as the Act, have not been signed by the United States, as it was deemed the Oil Pollution Act provided sufficient coverage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26324476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26324476", "title": "Operation Sandblast", "text": "Operation Sandblast\n\nOperation Sandblast was the code name for the first submerged circumnavigation of the world, executed by the United States Navy nuclear-powered radar picket submarine in 1960 under the command of Captain Edward L. Beach. \"The New York Times\" described \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation of the Earth as \"a triumph of human prowess and engineering skill, a feat which the United States Navy can rank as one of its bright victories in man's ultimate conquest of the seas.\"\n\nThe circumnavigation took place between 24 February and 25 April 1960, covering over 60 days and 21 hours. The route began and ended at the St. Peter and Paul Rocks in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean near the Equator. During the voyage, \"Triton\" crossed the Equator four times while maintaining an average speed of . \"Triton\"s overall navigational track during Operation Sandblast generally followed that of the first circumnavigation of the world, led by Portuguese explorer Ferdinand Magellan from 1519 to 1522.\n\nThe initial impetus for Operation Sandblast was to increase American technological and scientific prestige before the May 1960 Paris Summit between U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev. It also provided a high-profile public demonstration of the capability of U.S. Navy nuclear-powered submarines to carry out long-range submerged operations independent of external support and undetected by hostile forces, presaging the initial deployment of the U.S. Navy's Polaris ballistic missile submarines later in 1960. Finally, Operation Sandblast gathered extensive oceanographic, hydrographic, gravimetric, geophysical, and psychological data during \"Triton\"s circumnavigation.\n\nAlthough official celebrations for Operation Sandblast were cancelled following the diplomatic furor arising from the shooting down of a CIA U-2 spy plane over the Soviet Union in early May 1960, \"Triton\" did receive the Presidential Unit Citation with a special clasp in the form of a golden replica of the globe in recognition of the successful completion of its mission, and Captain Beach received the Legion of Merit for his role as \"Triton\"s commanding officer. In 1961, Beach received the Magellanic Premium, the United States' oldest and most prestigious scientific award, from the American Philosophical Society in \"recognition of his navigation of the U.S. submarine \"Triton\" around the globe.\"\n\nThe possibility of a submerged circumnavigation of the world by a U.S. Navy nuclear-powered submarine was initially discussed between Captain Evan P. Aurand, President Eisenhower's naval aide, and Commander William R. Anderson, commanding officer of the first nuclear submarine, \"Nautilus\", before it was decided to attempt a submerged voyage under the North Pole. Captain Aurand is credited with recommending that a successful submerged circumnavigation, timed to conclude just prior to the upcoming May 1960 Four Power Paris Summit between U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev, would provide a much needed boost to American prestige, and consequently this voyage, code-named Operation Sandblast, reflected the highest priority within the Eisenhower administration. Captain Aurand outlined this proposed submerged around the world voyage, Project Magellan, to Admiral Arleigh Burke, the Chief of Naval Operations, in a memorandum dated 6 January 1960. Admiral Burke's classified response dated 18 January 1960 acknowledged the technical feasibility of Project Magellan while further noting that the \"Magellan route\" could be transited in \"56 days at and 75 days at ,\" with the latter option costing an additional $3.34 million USD in nuclear fuel consumed. Aurand forwarded his Project Magellan proposal and Burke's assessment to Press Secretary James C. Hagerty in a memorandum dated 26 January 1960. Project Magellan was subsequently approved by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and USS \"Triton\" was specifically recommended by Aurand to undertake Project Magellan.\n\nThe U.S. Navy nuclear-powered radar picket submarine \"Triton\" (\"pictured\") was the largest, most powerful, and most expensive submarine ever built at the time of her commissioning, costing $109,000,000 excluding the cost of her nuclear fuel and reactors. A unique submarine, she also had the distinction of being the only non-Soviet submarine to be powered by two nuclear reactors. \"Triton\"s high speed was derived from her twin-reactor nuclear propulsion plant, with a designed speed, surfaced and submerged, of . On 27 September 1959, \"Triton\" achieved \"well in excess of\" during her initial sea trials. As originally designed, \"Triton\"s total reactor output was rated at , but she achieved during her sea trials \"(pictured)\", and her first commanding officer believed \"Triton\"s plant could have reached \"had that been necessary.\"\n\n\"Triton\"s first commanding officer was Captain Edward L. Beach, Jr. (\"pictured\"), a highly decorated submarine officer who had participated in the Battle of Midway and 12 combat patrols during World War II, earning 10 decorations for gallantry, including the Navy Cross. After the war, Beach served as the naval aide to the President of the United States from 1953 to 1957, and he also was the best-selling author of the non-fiction book \"Submarine!\" and a novel \"Run Silent, Run Deep\", which was made into a 1958 movie of the same name. In his last interview prior to his death in 2002, Captain Beach recalled \"Triton\" and the background to her historical mission:\n\nAs I was reporting to the \"Triton\", I remember saying, \"This ship is an unusual one. We've got to do something special with it. What could it be?\" We talked about it a little bit, and nobody had any ideas. Finally, I got an idea. We'll do a stunt. We'll go around the world from North Pole to South Pole. That was my brainstorm. If you take a look at a map of the world, you'll see that's not a very easy way to go. So we didn't do that. But I do remember thinking of it. And I made a speech to the crew, advising them of my thinking—that we were going to put this ship on the map. Well, that died out. Suddenly ... a phone call came, asking me if I could be in Washington tomorrow.\n\nFollowing her commissioning on 10 November 1959, \"Triton\" was assigned to Submarine Squadron 10 (Subron 10), the U.S. Navy's first all-nuclear force, based at the U.S. Submarine Base in New London, Connecticut, under the command of Commodore Thomas H. Henry. \"Triton\" subsequently completed torpedo trials at Naval Station Newport and conducted other special tests at the Norfolk Navy Base before returning to Electric Boat on 7 December 1959 in order to install special communications equipment, including a prototype of the BRA-3 towed communications buoy system housed in a large fairing located on the after end of the main deck. Work on \"Triton\" at Electric Boat was delayed as priority was given to completing the Navy's first two fleet ballistic missile (FBM) submarines, and .\n\nOn 20 January 1960, \"Triton\" got underway to conduct an accelerated series of at-sea testing. \"Triton\" returned on 1 February as preparations continued for her forthcoming shakedown cruise, scheduled for departure on 16 February 1960, which involved operating with the command ship , flagship of the U.S. Second Fleet, in northern European waters. On 1 February, Captain Beach received a message from Rear Admiral Lawrence R. Daspit, Commander Submarines Atlantic Fleet (), instructing Beach to attend a top secret meeting at The Pentagon on 4 February.\n\nOn 4 February 1960, Captain Edward L. Beach and Commodore Thomas H. Henry of Subron 10 arrived at the Pentagon in civilian attire to attend a top-secret, high-level meeting led by Vice Admiral Wallace M. Beakley, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Fleet Operations and Readiness. Also attending were Rear Admiral Lawson P. Ramage, Director of the Undersea Warfare Division, OPNAV; Captain Henry G. Munson, Director of the U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office, and staff representatives from the submarine type commands for the Atlantic and Pacific fleets. It was announced \"Triton\"s upcoming shakedown cruise was to be a submerged world circumnavigation, code-named Operation Sandblast, which would generally follow the track of the first circumnavigation in 1519–1522 led by Ferdinand Magellan. \"Triton\" would depart as scheduled on 16 February, and the submarine would arrive back home no later than 10 May 1960. The mission objectives for Operation Sandblast were summarized below:\n\nFor purposes of geophysical and oceanographic research and to determine habitability, endurance and psychological stress – all extremely important to the Polaris program – it had been decided that a rapid round-the-world trip, touching the areas of interest, should be conducted. Maximum stability of the observing platform and unbroken continuity around the world were important. Additionally, for reasons of the national interest it had been decided that the voyage should be made entirely submerged undetected by our own or other forces and completed as soon as possible. TRITON, because of her size, speed and extra dependability of her two-reactor plant, had been chosen for the mission.\n\nAccording to Captain Beach, the Navy came up with the code name of \"Sandblast\" because it was judged that taking his ship around the world submerged would \"take a lot of sand\" on the crew's part to be successful. Also, \"Sand\" served as Beach's personal code name during the mission. As the captain noted: \"Most beaches are full of sand, I was informed.\"\n\nBeach and Henry arrived back in New London at 5:45 a.m. on 5 February. Later that morning, after breakfast, Beach briefed his officers, whom Beach had insisted needed to know, about their new shakedown orders and the mission objectives for Operation Sandblast. The officers and crew of \"Triton\" had just 12 days to complete preparations for their much more ambitious, but top secret, shakedown cruise. With the exception of Chief Quartermaster (QMC) William J. Marshall, the enlisted personnel did not initially know the true nature of their upcoming mission. A cover story was devised that, following the shakedown cruise, \"Triton\" would proceed to the Caribbean Sea to undergo additional testing required by BuShips. The crew and civilian personnel were also instructed to file their federal income taxes early and take care of all other personal finances that might arise through mid-May.\n\nLt. Commander Will M. Adams, \"Triton\"s executive officer, and Lt. Commander Robert W. Bulmer, her operations officer, along with Chief Quartermaster Marshall, prepared the precise, mile-by-mile track of their upcoming voyage in the secure chart room, located at headquarters. Lt. Commander Robert D. Fisher, \"Triton\"s supply officer, coordinated loading of stores sufficient for a 120-day voyage \"(pictured)\". Eventually, some of food were loaded on board, including of frozen food, of canned meat, of coffee, and of potatoes. Vice Admiral Hyman G. Rickover, the head of the U.S. Navy's Naval Reactors branch, sent special power-setting instructions for \"Triton\"s reactors, allowing them to operate with greater flexibility and a higher safety factor.\n\nA key personnel change occurred on 2 February when \"Triton\"s veteran chief engineering officer, Lt. Commander Leslie D. Kelly, left for duty at the Rickover's Naval Reactors branch of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission. His relief was his former assistant engineering officer, Lt. Commander Donald G. Fears.\n\nAlso, a number of supercargo personnel joined \"Triton\" for her shakedown cruise, with none aware of the top-secret nature of Operation Sandblast. Joseph Baynor Roberts was a well-known photographer from the \"National Geographic\" Magazine, and as a Commander in the U.S. Naval Reserve, he was recalled to active duty to serve as the press pool for the voyage with the U.S. Navy Office of Information. Additionally, Roberts and First Class Photographer's Mate (PH1) William R. Hadley, USN, detached from Naval Air Force U.S. Atlantic Fleet, coordinated the photo-reconnaissance aspects of Operation Sandblast.\n\nThe other civilian personnel included Dr. Benjamin B. Weybrew, a psychologist at U.S Naval Submarine Medical Research Laboratory, would carry out a battery of psychological studies with volunteers from the crew. Geophysicist Michael Smalet, civil engineer Gordon E. Wilkes, and oceanographer Nicholas R. Mabry coordinated the various scientific and technical aspects of Operation Sandblast for the U.S. Navy's Hydrographic Office. Eldon C. Good monitored the Ship Inertial Navigation System (SINS) prototype, newly installed onboard \"Triton\" by the Sperry Gyroscopic Company. Frank E. McConnell was the Electric Boat guaranty representative assigned to \"Triton\"s shakedown cruise.\n\nOn 15 February 1960, \"Triton\" went to sea to do a final check of all shipboard equipment. Except for a malfunctioning wave-motion sensor, \"Triton\" was deemed ready for her shakedown cruise.\n\n\"Triton\" departed New London on 16 February 1960 for what was announced as her shakedown cruise \"(pictured)\". \"Triton\" set course to the south-east (134 degrees true). At dawn on 17 February, \"Triton\" performed her first morning star-sighting using the built-in sextant in her No. 1 periscope during the nightly ventilation of the shipboard atmosphere. The inboard induction valve was closed after the removal of a rusted flashlight that had prevented its closure.\n\nCaptain Beach announced the true nature of their shakedown cruise \"(pictured)\":\n\nMen, I know you’ve all been waiting to learn what this cruise is about, and why we’re still headed southeast. Now, at last, I can tell you that we are going on the voyage which all submariners have dreamed of ever since they possessed the means of doing so. We have the ship and we have the crew. We’re going around the world, nonstop. And we’re going to do it entirely submerged.\n\nRegarding the upcoming voyage, Beach adopted a decidedly non-traditional command style:\n\nEarly on, I realized that what this particular crew needed from me was not pressure but the light touch. Once informed of our objective, their enthusiasm infected everything they did, and here and there might easily have caused stress-related dysfunction. Extended separation from home and family with no means of communications was not a problem — submariners are used to that — but bearing down too much on the job might be. My concern was about our performance in an emergency, being at the same time unable to predict what emergencies might be in store for us. It was important, I thought, to hold back on the pressure until a really tough problem came up. This happened several times, as I knew it would, and I was glad I had something in reserve.\n\nFor the shakedown cruise, Beach adopted a specific weekly shipboard routine. Mondays and Tuesdays involved regular activities, with drills, lectures, school of the ship, and class programs from the noon to 1600 watch. Wednesdays had the crew on reduced activities that is traditionally known as Rope Yarn Sunday. Thursdays saw a schedule of regular drills, and Fridays involved upkeep and general maintenance activities known as Field Day. Saturdays had regular activities with afternoon drills, and Sundays had reduced activities with normal watches and religious observances.\nAlso, beginning on 17 February during the mid watch, \"Triton\" came to periscope depth to take a nightly fix using the built-in sextant in her celestial periscope, ventilate and replenish her shipboard atmosphere using the snorkel, and dispose of any shipboard garbage. Since \"Triton\" did not have a generator to extract oxygen from sea water, these nightly snorkeling activities were crucial to maintaining a suitable atmosphere.\n\nLater that same day, 17 February 1960, \"Triton\" experienced a serious leak with a main condenser circulating water pump, and a reactor warning alarm tripped because of a defective electrical connection. Both incidents were handled successfully and did not affect the ship's performance.\n\nOn 18 February \"Triton\" conducted her first general daily drill and on 19 February released her first twice-daily hydrographic bottles, used to study ocean current patterns. Also on 19 February, shipboard sensors detected a radiation leak. It was subsequently determined the radium dials on three wristwatches were the cause for the alarm, and once removed, no radiation was detected for the balance of the voyage. On 23 February, \"Triton\" detected a previously uncharted seamount with her fathometer.\n\nBeach maintained that the greatest challenge facing the crew was a seemingly mundane activity, garbage disposal and cleaning: \"It was 84 days of strenuous work just keeping the ship clean. It was amazing how much dirt we created, so I had a field day every weekend. The crew started objecting until they saw how much trash we kept getting rid of. Then they couldn't object.\" To remove trash without surfacing, \"Triton\" had a garbage disposal unit (GDU), a small inverted torpedo tube that ejected a weighted bag of refuse through the bottom of the ship. However, if the GDU was temporarily out of commission due to repairs, as it was on 22 February, the after torpedo tubes were used, a less than optimum solution.\n\nOn 24 February, \"Triton\" made her first landfall, reaching St. Peter and Paul Rocks \"(pictured)\" after traveling . The Rocks served as the home plate for \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation. Photographic reconnaissance was carried out by Lt. Richard M. Harris, the CIC/ECM officer, and Chief Cryptologic Technician (CTC) William R. Hadley, who served as the ship's secondary photo-recon team for the voyage. \"Triton\" turned south and crossed the equator for the first time later that day, passing into the Southern Hemisphere, with ship's personnel participating in the crossing the line ceremony \"(pictured)\".\n\nOn 1 March 1960, as \"Triton\" passed along the east coast of South America, a trio of crises threatened to end Operation Sandblast prematurely. The first was when Chief Radarman (RDC) John R. Poole began suffering from a series of kidney stones. The second was when the ship's fathometer went out of commission, with its loss meaning \"Triton\" could no longer echo-sound the sea floor, increasing the danger of grounding or collision as the ship traveled through poorly charted waters. Captain Beach observed:\n\nFortunately at the present time we are in an area where the water is deeper than normal for the Atlantic and for a number of hours there is [no] worry about unexpectedly scraping the top of any unsuspected submerged peak. But we will want that fathometer badly as we approach Cape Horn.\n\nPerhaps most critically, the third problem involved the readings on one of the reactors indicating a serious malfunction which required its shutdown. As Captain Beach noted, \"So far as \"Triton\" and the first of March were concerned, it seemed that troubles were not confined to pairs. On that day we were to have them in threes.\"\n\nLater that day, Lt. Milton R. Rubb and his electronics technician team returned the fathometer to operational status, and the Chief Engineer Donald D. Fears, Reactor Officer Lt. Cmdr. Robert P. McDonald, and \"Triton\"s engineering crew repaired the malfunctioning reactor. Since Poole's symptoms were intermittent, \"Triton\" continued south, although there was a detour to the Golfo Nuevo region when the ship investigated an unknown sonar contact. Contemporary news accounts reported the Argentine Navy had been encountering numerous unknown submarine contacts in the Golfo Nuevo during early 1960, but \"Triton\"s contact turned out to be a school of fish.\n\nOn 3 March, \"Triton\" located the Falkland Islands on her radar and prepared to conduct photoreconnaissance of Stanley Harbor. Before they could visually sight the islands, Poole's condition worsened so much that–taking a calculated risk–Captain Beach reversed course, ordered flank speed, and sent a radio message to headquarters describing the situation. From the ship's log on that date, Beach noted:\n\nIn the control and living spaces, the ship had quieted down, too. Orders were given in low voices; the men speak to each other, carrying out their normal duties, in a repressed atmosphere. A regular pall has descended upon us. I know that all hands are aware of the decision and recognize the need for it. Perhaps they are relieved that they did not have to make it. But it is apparent that this unexpected illness, something that could neither have been foreseen nor prevented, may ruin our submergence record.\n\nFortunately, the heavy cruiser , with Captain Reuben T. Whitaker in command, had been on a good-will cruise to South American ports since January as the flagship for Rear Admiral Edward C. Stephan, Commander Naval Forces South Atlantic (Task Force 138). \"Macon\" had been in Argentine waters in conjunction with US President Eisenhower's visit to Argentina from 26–29 February 1960. In the early hours of 5 March, \"Triton\" rendezvoused with \"Macon\" off Montevideo, Uruguay, after a diversion of over . \"Triton\" broached, exposing only her sail while preserving the submarine's submerged status. A boat-handling party led by Lieutenant George A. Sawyer, the ship's gunnery officer, transferred Poole to the waiting whaleboat, which then returned to \"Macon\". Poole was the only crew member who did not complete the voyage. Chief Radarman Poole was subsequently examined by both the doctors aboard \"Macon\" and at a hospital in Montevideo, but his third attack of kidney stones, which prompted his transfer off \"Triton\", proved to be his last–and he did not require kidney surgery.\n\nAfter the rendezvous, \"Triton\" dove and turned back southwards. She subsequently passed west of the Falklands, and rounded Cape Horn \"(pictured)\" through Estrecho de le Maire (Drake Passage) on 7 March. Captain Beach described his first impressions of this legendary lands-end of the Western Hemisphere as \"bold and forbidding, like the sway-backed profile of some prehistoric sea monster.\" Captain Beach allowed all the crew an opportunity to view Cape Horn through the ship's periscope, requiring five reverses of \"Triton\"s course to keep the cape in sight.\n\nOn 7 March, \"Triton\" entered the Pacific Ocean and passed into the operational control of Rear Admiral Roy S. Benson, Commander Submarine Force U.S. Pacific Fleet (), who had been Captain Beach's commanding officer while he served on the fleet submarine in the Pacific War. \"Triton\"s first Pacific visual landfall was Easter Island, some away. On 8 March, \"Triton\" detected a seamount, registering a minimum depth of , with a total height of above the ocean floor. Also on that day, \"Triton\" successfully conducted a drill simulating the emergency shutdown of both her reactors and loss of all power.\n\nTwo days later, the starboard propshaft seal sprung a major leak in the after engine room. A makeshift locking clamp was jury-rigged to contain the leak. On 12 March, the trouble-plagued fathometer ceased operation when its transducer header flooded, grounding out the entire system. Since the transducer head was located outside the boat's pressure hull, it could not be repaired except in drydock. Without an operational fathometer, \"Triton\" could be vulnerable to grounding or collision with uncharted submerged formations. It was subsequently determined that the cabling to \"Triton\"s fathometer head, located in the bulbous forefoot of her bow, had not been properly insulated, and the constant buffeting from \"Triton\"s high speed caused these cables to rupture, rendering the fathometer inoperable.\n\nAn alternative to the fathometer was devised involving the use of the ship's active forward search sonar in conjunction with the gravity meter installed in the combat intelligence center (CIC). By using both systems in tandem, underwater masses could be detected and avoided, although this approach lacked the capability of the fathometer to echo-sound the depth of the ocean floor. On 13 March, \"Triton\" detected a submerged peak using active sonar and the gravity meter that confirmed the feasibility of this procedure.\n\n\"Triton\" next spotted Easter Island on that same day, 13 March 1960, first by radar, then by periscope. The northeastern coast of the island was photographed for two and a half hours before the statue that Thor Heyerdahl had erected was spotted. The entire crew was invited to observe through the periscope before \"Triton\" departed for her next visual landfall–Guam, some distant.\n\nA malfunctioning air compressor was repaired on 17 March. The repair required the complete re-wiring of the compressor's armature, a task ordinarily done aboard a submarine tender or in a shipyard. Captain Beach was deeply impressed by \"this spirit and outlook [that] permeated our crew.\" He was also \"astonished\" by two different makeshift fathometer sound transmitters created by the electronics and engineering crewmen. One was based on a general announcing speaker, while the other used a stainless steel cooking pot from the galley, with stainless steel rods and copper wiring. Beach noted in the ship's log: \"I could only marvel at the ingenuity of the American sailor.\"\n\nOn 19 March, \"Triton\" detected another submerged peak, using its sonar and gravity meter, and crossed the equator a second time–passing into the Northern Hemisphere again. Another submerged peak was successfully detected on 20 March. Later that day, \"Triton\" made her closest approach to Pearl Harbor, and the crew celebrated with a luau.\n\n\"Triton\" crossed the International Date Line on 23 March, losing 24 March from her calendar. The next day, sonar indicated another rise from the ocean floor, previously uncharted, logged with a depth of . Two days later, 27 March, \"Triton\" passed the point of closest approach to the location where her namesake was lost during World War II, and a memorial service was held to commemorate the occasion. A submerged naval gun salute was fired to honor the lost crew when three water slugs were shot in quick succession from the forward torpedo tubes.\n\nOn the morning of 28 March, \"Triton\" spotted Guam and observed activity on shore via her periscope. Petty Officer Edward Carbullido \"(pictured)\", who had been born on Guam but had not returned home for 14 years, was asked to identify his parents' house through the periscope while the boat remained submerged in Agat Bay. \"Triton\" then changed course for the Philippines, the midpoint of her around-the-world voyage. Carbullido was subsequently able to go home to Guam for Christmas Day 1960 on a 60-day leave, with the cost of his flight paid for by selling a magazine article on \"Triton\"s circumnavigation written by Captain Beach, and with the assistance of Pan American Airways. Captain Beach subsequently wrote an account of Carbullido's visit for the November 1961 issue of \"The American Legion Magazine\".\n\nOn 31 March, \"Triton\" crossed over the Philippine Trench and began threading her way through the vast Philippine archipelago, passing from the Philippine Sea through the Surigao Strait and then the Mindanao Sea, and finally through the Bohol Strait into the Camotes Sea.\n\nA special water sample was taken during \"Triton\"s transit of Surigao Strait; its recipient was the retired Vice Admiral Jesse B. Oldendorf, the task force commander whose battleships had defeated the Japanese Southern Force during the Battle of Surigao Strait, history's last naval action fought between battleships, during World War II. Captain Beach observed, \"We think that Admiral Oldendorf will appreciate a sample of this body of water.\"\n\nOn 1 April, \"Triton\" spotted Mactan Island, and shortly before noon, sighted the monument (\"pictured\") commemorating the death of Ferdinand Magellan at that site, thereby reaching the midpoint of her circumnavigation.\nLater that same day, April Fool's Day, \"Triton\" was sighted by the only unauthorized person to spot the submarine during her top secret voyage–a young Filipino man in a small dugout canoe (\"pictured\") about off \"Triton\"’s beam, staring at her raised periscope. Captain Beach later recorded his reactions to this unexpected encounter in his log:\n\nThe noted photographer Joseph Baynor Roberts of \"National Geographic\" magazine was able to snap several photos of this unexpected interloper \"(pictured)\" through the ship's periscope before \"Triton\" moved out of range. The November 1960 issue identified the fisherman as 19-year-old Rufino Baring of Punta Engano, Mactan Island, who believed he had encountered a sea monster: \"I was very frightened. I tried to get away as fast as I could.\"\n\nLater on the afternoon of 1 April, \"Triton\" proceeded through Hilutangan Channel into the Sulu Sea \"via\" Bohol Strait.\n\nOn 2 April, \"Triton\"s gyroscopic repeaters, used to maintain the ship's navigational bearing, began to experience sudden, severe oscillations, possibly caused by a malfunctioning synchro amplifier. The helm was shifted to direct gyro input, the synchro amplifiers were checked out, and the gyroscopic repeaters appeared to return to normal function. Later, while transiting the Pearl Bank Passage, a narrow channel lined with coral reefs, a periscope observation determined that \"Triton\" was off course, indicating a potentially hazardous helm error. Steering control was immediately shifted to the control room, with the helm using the master gyroscopic repeater. While the malfunction was detected in time and the ship was not in any immediate danger, the loss of navigational bearing could have been catastrophic, with Captain Beach noting that \"the episode had a sobering effect.\"\n\n\"Triton\" then proceeded through the Sibutu Passage into the Celebes Sea, leaving Philippine waters, and subsequently entered Makassar Strait, crossing the equator a third time, on 3 April, and then, during 4 April, transited the Flores Sea, bound for Lombok Strait, the gateway to the Indian Ocean.\n\nOn 5 April, \"Triton\" entered the Indian Ocean via the Lombok Strait. The transition proved dramatic. The change in salinity and density of the seawater caused her to dive abruptly from periscope depth to in about 40 seconds. Captain Beach noted, \"I had experienced changes in water density many times before, but never one of this magnitude.\" \"Triton\" returned to periscope depth and subsequently entered the Indian Ocean.\n\nWhile crossing the Indian Ocean, \"Triton\" conducted a sealed-ship experiment. Beginning 10 April, rather than refreshing the air in the ship by snorkeling each night, she remained sealed, using compressed air to make up for consumed oxygen, as well as burning \"oxygen candles\" to replenish the ship's atmosphere. Also, starting on 15 April, the smoking lamp was extinguished, with no tobacco smoking permitted anywhere aboard the ship.\n\nDuring this smoking ban, Dr. Benjamin Weybrew carried out a battery of tests on crew volunteers, both smokers and non-smokers, to measure cardiovascular functions and psychological stress indices to determine the effects that the prohibition of tobacco had on individual and group performance of the test subjects. The objective of this experiment was to determine the advisability of prohibiting the use of tobacco from submarine operations given the extended submerged duration of missions involving nuclear-powered submarines.\n\nThe test results determined that smokers showed consistently higher mean oral temperature and pulse rate, both at rest and following exercises, as well as significantly increased pulse rates over non-smokers, a marked decrease in alertness, and an increase in insomnia symptoms. However, there was no significant difference in blood pressure between smokers and non-smokers. Finally, smokers experienced \"debilitative performance decrements\" during the smoking prohibition, and as a consequence, this also affected the morale of non-smokers, both among the participants in the experiment as well as non-participants. Dr. Weybrew concluded smoking should be avoided because of its attendant health and relational issues, and not smoking enhances one's overall stress coping capacity (SCC).\n\nAt the 1963 convention of the Cigar Institute of America, Weybrew noted: \"When a smoker is forbidden to smoke he just doesn't like it. The smokers in the test got irritable, ate too much, had trouble sleeping, and personal relationships began to deteriorate.\"\n\nOn Easter Sunday, 17 April, \"Triton\" sighted the Cape of Good Hope and subsequently re-entered the South Atlantic Ocean, returning to the command authority of Rear Admiral Lawrence R. Daspit ().\n\nThe smoking lamp was re-lit on 18 April, with the three days of prohibition having taken a noticeable toll on crew morale. Rather than passing the word in a traditional manner, Captain Beach demonstrated the lifting of the ban by walking through the ship smoking a cigar, blowing smoke in people's faces, and asking, \"Don't you wish you could do this?\" He recorded in his log that \"it took some 37 seconds for the word to get around.\" On 20 April 1960, \"Triton\" crossed the Prime Meridian, and on 24 April, the sealed atmosphere experiment was terminated.\n\nOn the same day that the sealed atmosphere experiment was terminated, 24 April 1960, \"Triton\" experienced a major equipment failure. In the after torpedo room, a hydraulic line to the stern plane mechanism burst. Through the prompt action by Torpedoman's Mate Third Class Allen W. Steele, aided by Engineman Third Class Arlan F. Martin, this potentially catastrophic event was successfully contained. Eventually, the main hydraulic system was restored with a control valve from the steering system, but the boat's steering controls remained on emergency mode for the rest of the voyage. It was subsequently determined that the pipe burst was caused by a fractured valve. For his quick and decisive actions in handling this emergency, Steele was presented the Navy Commendation Medal.\n\nOn 25 April, \"Triton\" crossed the Equator a final time, re-entering the Northern Hemisphere, and shortly thereafter, she sighted the St. Peter and Paul Rocks, completing the first submerged circumnavigation. As Captain Beach wrote, \"We are not yet home, but we may be considered to have taken a long lead off third base.\"\n\nDuring 28–29 April, \"Triton\" conducted engineering drills, then proceeded to Tenerife, the Canary Islands, arriving on 30 April, and thereafter setting course for Cadiz, Spain, to complete two additional goals of Operation Sandblast. One was to honor the seaport where Ferdinand Magellan set sail from in 1519 to initiate the first global maritime circumnavigation, and the other was to deliver a plaque created to honor Magellan's and \"Triton\"s historic voyages when \"Triton\" rendezvoused with the destroyer off Cadiz on 2 May 1960. Afterward, Beach noted, \"We are on the last leg of our trip enroute to the United States.\"\n\n\"Triton\" returned to the United States, surfacing off the coast of Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, on 10 May 1960. Captain Beach was flown by helicopter (\"pictured\") to Washington, D.C., where news of \"Triton\"s submerged around-the-world voyage was announced by President Dwight D. Eisenhower at the White House, with Vice Admiral Hyman G. Rickover, known as the \"Father of the Nuclear Navy\", in attendance. Beach flew back to his boat later that day, and \"Triton\" arrived back at Groton, Connecticut, on 11 May 1960, completing her shakedown cruise and the first submarine circumnavigation of the earth.\n\nThe total mileage and duration of the first submerged circumnavigation of the earth are as follows:\n\n\n\"Triton\" also crossed the Equator four times during its circumnavigation on the following dates and locations:\n\nOn her shakedown cruise, \"Triton\" was submerged a total of 83 days 9 hours, covering . The total duration of the shakedown cruise was 84 days 19 hours 8 minutes, covering .\n\nGuinness World Records lists \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation as 83 days, 9 hours, 54 minutes in duration, the total submerged portion of her shakedown cruise. When the British trimaran \"Cable & Wireless Adventurer\" completed its 74-day circumnavigation in 1998, Guinness World Records recorded this as the fastest motorized maritime circumnavigation, beating the previous record held by \"Triton\". When interviewed by travel author Clive Tully, retired Captain Tom B. Thamm, \"Triton\"s diving officer during Operation Sandblast, confirmed the actual duration of \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation was 60 days, 21 hours while further noting:\n\nThe \"Cable & Wireless Adventurer\" did not beat \"Triton\"s record if it took them 75 days to circumnavigate the earth. And if their route was 4752 statute miles (7647.6 km) shorter than ours, they simply aren't even close.\"\n\nWhen Tully made inquiries regarding inconsistencies pertaining to the fastest motorized maritime circumnavition record, the Guinness World Records response was: \"If the US Department of Defense would care to present us with all the facts, we'll look at it again.\" Tully noted that this information had been publicly available since the publication of \"Around the World Submerged: The Voyage of the Triton\", Captain Beach's 1962 account of Operation Sandblast. Arguably, \"Triton\"s circumnavigation remains the fastest for a motorized sea vessel, beating \"Cable & Wireless Adventurer\"s 1998 74-day voyage and \"Earthraces 2008 circumnavigation of 60 days, 23 hours, and 49 minutes.\n\nOperation Sandblast gathered extensive oceanographic, hydrographic, gravimetric, and geophysical data. Water samples were taken throughout \"Triton\"s circumnavigation, which were tested for differences in chemical composition, salinity, density, and temperature. Such samples were vital for submarine operations. Water salinity and density affects submerged trim, as well as sonar performance, while warmer water affects the efficiency of shipboard condensers and, consequently, ship speed. Measurements from the installed gravity meter provided a continuous record of variations in earth's gravity field throughout \"Triton\"s circumnavigation. This extensive gravity study assisted the Navy in developing navigational aids. Some 144 hydrographic bottles to track ocean currents were released during Operation Sandblast. \"Triton\" mapped uncharted seamounts, coral reefs, and other submerged topographic structures using its fathometer and sonar systems. These scientific data gathered during Operation Sandblast continued to be invaluable in providing information on oceanic changes, with Sydney Levitus, the director of NOAA's Ocean Climate Laboratory in Silver Spring, Maryland, characterizing \"Triton\"s data (\"pictured\") as being \"a very exciting set of observations.\"\n\nOperation Sandblast also proved nuclear-powered submarines could undertake extended operations independent of any external support. Specifically, \"Triton\" tested a prototype ship inertial navigational system (SINS) for submarine use, as well as being the first submarine to test the floating very low frequency (VLF) communications buoy system, with both systems being vital for the Navy's upcoming Polaris fleet ballistic missile submarines (FBM) deterrence patrols. Finally, the psychological testing of \"Triton\"s crew members to determine the effects of long-term isolation was particularly relevant for the initial deployment of the Navy's fleet ballistic missile submarines, as well as NASA's upcoming manned space program, Project Mercury, with MIT engineers assuring NASA \"that getting to the moon and back was simpler than guiding an antiballistic missile or circumnavigating the earth under water in a nuclear submarine.\"\n\nIn his 2000 book \"Ships Of Discovery And Exploration\", historian Lincoln P. Paine further summarized the true accomplishment of Operation Sandblast:\n\nBecause of the public uproar over the U-2 Incident, which sparked a major Soviet-American diplomatic crisis that led to the collapse of the 1960 Paris Summit, most of the official celebrations for \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation were canceled. The voyage did receive extensive contemporary coverage by the news media, including feature magazine articles by \"Argosy\", \"Life\", \"Look\", \"National Geographic\", and the \"Saturday Evening Post\" as well as television and newsreels.\n\n\"Triton\"s commanding officer during Operation Sandblast, Captain Edward L. Beach, appeared on CBS news program \"Face the Nation\" on 15 May 1960 while several \"Triton\" crew members appeared on the \"What's My Line\" television game show. \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation was the subject of the ABC television series \"Expedition!\" broadcast on Tuesday, 14 February 1961. Hosted by John D. Craig, this episode was titled \"Saga of the \"Triton\"\", and it featured film footage from Operation Sandblast with voice-over narration extracted from Captain Beach's logbook.\n\nThe American government published an 82-page redacted version of \"Triton\"s log \"(pictured)\" following the submerged circumnavigation. It was described by the \"New York Times\" as \"a literary product in its own right [that] rivals in spots the suspense and drama of an adventure from the pages of Captain Hornblower.\"\n\nCaptain Beach wrote the lead article (\"\"Triton\" Follows Magellan's Wake\") on the circumnavigation for the November 1960 issue of \"National Geographic Magazine\", and he also wrote a book-length account, \"Around the World Submerged: The Voyage of the Triton\", which was published in 1962. Beach also made public presentations of the accomplishments of Operation Sandblast before the National Press Club (\"pictured\"), National Geographic Society on 27 May 1960, the American Philosophical Society on 22 April 1961, the Society of Non-Destructive Testing on 8 May 1965, and the Eagle-Scout Recognition Dinner in Chicago, Illinois, on 4 November 1965.\n\nHistorian Bern Dibner wrote \"Victoria and the Triton\", a 1964 book about famous maritime circumnavigations, featuring the \"Victoria\", the Spanish carrack that was the first ship to circumnavigate the world under Ferdinand Magellan, as well as \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation of 1960. Also, Beril Becker wrote a 1961 juvenile-market non-fiction account of Operation Sandblast, \"Around the World Underwater: Captain Edward L. Beach\", with illustrations by Richard Modock. Finally, the feat of successfully completing the first submerged circumnavigation of the world by the submarine \"Triton\" was recognized as a significant scientific and technological achievement for the year 1960 in Bernard Grun's authoritative historical reference, \"The Timestables of History\". Operation Sandblast is also examined within the overall context of global circumnavigations in Joyce E. Chaplin's 2012 history \"Round About the Earth: Circumnavigation from Magellan to Orbit\".\n\nFor the 50th anniversary of Operation Sandblast (\"see below\"), writer-historian Carl LaVO wrote \"Incredible Voyage\" for the June 2010 edition of \"Naval History\" magazine, and John Beach wrote \"The First Submerged Circumnavigation\" for the April 2010 issue of \"The Submarine Review\", the official magazine of the Naval Submarine League. Mr. Beach is the nephew of Captain Edward L. Beach, the commanding officer of USS \"Triton\" during Operation Sandblast. Finally, the Naval Institute Press published \"Beneath the Waves\" by Dr. Edward F. Finch, a 2010 biography of the late Captain Beach, which includes extensive coverage of Operation Sandblast. Finally, in a 1999 interview for \"All Hands\" magazine, Captain Edward L. Beach paid tribute to his crew and their ship by noting:\n\nI'm proud of \"Triton's\" around-the-world cruise, but I didn't really do that. That was done by my crew and the Navy - the ship the Navy built and put me in command of. That's not a personal achievement, although I was captain of the ship.\n\nOn 10 May 1960, \"Triton\" received the Presidential Unit Citation from Secretary of the Navy William B. Franke, which was accepted by Chief Torpedoman's Mate Chester Raymond Fitzjarald, the chief of the boat, on behalf of \"Triton\"s officers and crew. The citation reads:\n\nFor meritorious achievement from 16 February 1960 to 10 May 1960. During this period the TRITON circumnavigated the earth submerged, generally following the route of Magellan’s historic voyage. In addition to proving the ability of both crew and nuclear submarine to accomplish a mission which required almost three months of submergence, TRITON collected much data of scientific importance. The performance, determination and devotion to duty of the TRITON’s crew were in keeping with the highest traditions of the naval service. All members of the crew who made this voyage are authorized to wear the Presidential Unit Citation ribbon with a special clasp in the form of a golden replica of the globe.\n\nUp to that time, this was only the second time that a U.S. Navy vessel had been awarded the Presidential Unit Citation for a peacetime mission, with the nuclear submarine receiving the first peacetime PUC in recognition of its voyage under the North Pole (Operation Sunshine) in 1958. To commemorate the first submerged circumnavigation of the world, all \"Triton\" personnel who made that voyage were authorized to wear their Presidential Unit Citation ribbon with a special clasp in the form of a golden replica of the globe (\"pictured\").\n\nCaptain Edward L. Beach received the Legion of Merit from President Eisenhower in a ceremony held in the Conference Room at the White House on 10 May 1960, with presidential naval aide Captain Evan P. Aurand reading the following citation:\n\nFor exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding service while serving on board the U.S.S. TRITON from 16 February 1960 to 10 May 1960. As Commanding Officer, Captain Edward L. Beach, United States Navy, led his crew with courage, foresight and determination in an unprecedented circumnavigation of the globe, proving man's ability under trying conditions to accomplish prolonged submerged missions as well as testing new and complex equipment in the world's largest submarine. This historic voyage took his ship into strange waters under difficult and frequently unknown conditions, as a result, the TRITON collected much valuable oceanographic information. Captain Beach's sound judgment, masterful leadership, professional skill and devotion to duty were in keeping with the highest traditions of the naval service.\n\nBeach received the 1960 Giant of Adventure Award from \"Argosy\" magazine, which dubbed him the \"Magellan of the Deep\". Beach also received an honorary doctorate of science (Sc.D) from the American International College, whose citation reads:\n\nIn 1961, the American Philosophical Society presented Beach with its Magellanic Premium, the nation's oldest and most prestigious scientific award, in \"recognition of his navigation of the U.S. submarine \"Triton\" around the globe.\"\n\nIn 2011, Operation Sandblast, the , and Captain Edward L. Beach, Jr., were included in the Technology for the Nuclear Age: Nuclear Propulsion display for the Cold War exhibit at the U.S. Navy Museum in Washington, DC.\n\nOn 11 April 1960, the chief petty officers Hugh M. Bennett, Jr.; Joseph H. Blair, Jr.; Harry W. Hampson; Herbert F. Hardman; and Lynn S. Loveland were announced for promotion to ensign and moved into the ward room. Also on that date, the first-class petty officers George M. Bloomingdale; Richard R. Fickel; Joseph R. Flasco; Gene R. Hoke; Lonard F. Lehman; George W. Mather; J. C. Meaders; Russell F. Pion; Gerald R. Stott; and Robert R. Tambling were promoted to Chief Petty Officers and moved in the Chiefs' Quarters.\n\nExecutive Officer Will Mont Adams, Jr., received notice of his promotion to full Commander on 30 April 1960, his birthday, effective 1 February 1960. Also on that date, Chief Engineering Officer Donald Gene Fears was promoted to Lieutenant Commander, effective 1 February 1960.\n\nOn 10 May 1960, William R. Hadley, Chief Communications Technician, was awarded his silver dolphin pin, signifying that he was qualified to serve on submarines. Also on that date, enlisted men Lawrence W. Beckhaus; Fred Kenst; William A. McKamey; and James H. Smith, Jr., were awarded their silver dolphin pins.\n\nIn the eight days prior to \"Triton\"s departure on her around-the-world submerged voyage, Captain Beach approached Lt. Tom B. Thamm, \"Triton\"s Auxiliary Division Officer, to design a commemorative plaque for their upcoming voyage, as well as the first circumnavigation led by Portuguese explorer Ferdinand Magellan. The plaque's eventual design consisted of a brass disk about in diameter, bearing a sailing ship reminiscent of Magellan's carrack, \"Trinidad\", above the submarine dolphin insignia with the years 1519 and 1960 between them, all within a laurel wreath. Outside the wreath is the motto AVE NOBILIS DUX, ITERUM FACTUM EST (\"Hail Noble Captain, It Is Done Again\").\n\nCommodore Tom Henry, commanding Submarine Squadron 10, supervised the completion of the plaque. The carving of the wooden form was done by retired Chief Electrician's Mate Ernest L. Benson at New London. The actual molding of the plaque was done by the Mystic Foundry.\n\nDuring the homeward leg of her around-the-world voyage, \"Triton\" rendezvoused with the destroyer on 2 May 1960 off Cadiz, Spain, the departure point for Magellan's earlier voyage. \"Triton\" broached, and \"Weeks\" transferred the finished plaque to \"Triton\" for transport back to the United States. The plaque was subsequently presented to the Spanish government by John Davis Lodge, the United States Ambassador to Spain. This plaque is located at the City Hall in Sanlúcar de Barrameda, Spain, and it is mounted on the wall of the city hall with a marble slab memorializing the 1960 \"Triton\" submerged circumnavigation.\n\nDuplicates of the Triton Plaque were also presented to the Mystic Seaport Museum in Mystic, Connecticut, and the Naval Historical Association in Washington, D.C., as well as the U.S. Navy Submarine School and the U.S. Navy Submarine Force Library and Museum, both located in Groton, Connecticut.\n\n \nTriton Light is a navigational beacon on the seawall of the United States Naval Academy (USNA) in Annapolis, Maryland, where the Severn River meets Spa Creek and the Annapolis harbor. It was donated to the Academy and named for the Greek god by the United States Naval Academy Class of 1945. The crew of \"Triton\" provided samples of water taken from the 22 seas through which their ship had passed during their submerged 1960 circumnavigation, which were used to fill a globe built into the Triton Light along with a commemorative marker.\n\nBeach Hall is the new headquarters for the United States Naval Institute which was dedicated on 21 April 1999. The facility is named after Captain Edward L. Beach, Sr., who served as the Institute's secretary-treasurer, and his son, Captain Edward L. Beach, Jr. (\"pictured\"), who commanded \"Triton\" during Operation Sandblast. \"Triton\"s dive wheel from its conning tower is on display in the lobby of Beach Hall.\n\n\"Triton\" was the 2003 inductee into the Submarine Hall of Fame in recognition of executing the first submerged circumnavigation, following her nomination by the Tidewater chapter and Hampton Roads Base of the United States Submarine Veterans, Inc. (USSVI). A shadow box filled with \"Triton\" memorabilia was placed in Alcorn Auditorium of Ramage Hall located at the U.S. Navy Submarine Learning Center, Naval Station Norfolk.\n\nThe USS \"Triton\" Submarine Memorial Park is located along the Columbia River in Washington. Its purpose is \"to establish a permanent park in north Richland in recognition of all the decommissioned reactor cores off-loaded at the Port’s barge slip, transported and stored at the Hanford Site.\" The park features \"Triton\"s sail superstructure (\"pictured\") and eventually an information display on the history of \"Triton\". The park also serves as a tourist attraction, especially due to its location, since Hanford is the resting place of spent reactor cores from several Navy ships. The park's tentative location is at the end of Port of Benton Boulevard in north Richland, Washington. Planning called for \"Triton\"'s sail to be cut up for transport and re-assembly at the park site. Ground-breaking was initially scheduled to take place on 3 April 2008, with the dedication ceremony set for 19 August 2008 and a Fall 2009 start-date for construction. On 23 October 2009, the Port of Benton encased \"Triton\"s conning tower in concrete at its new USS Triton Submarine Memorial Park in north Richland, Washington. In mid-December 2009, the final pieces of \"Triton\"s sail were welded together at the park's site. During the 11 August 2010 Port of Benton commission meeting, it was reported that bids for the first phase, which includes the park's electrical lighting system and the pouring the concrete around \"Triton\"s sail, would be announced shortly by the port authority. The second phase would involve the park's landscaping, and the third phase would be the installation of a parking lot. The park is part of the Richland Riverfront Trail, a marked hiking trail that focuses on the state of Washington's contribution to the nuclear history of the United States, and it connects to the Sacagawea Heritage Trail. The USS Triton Submarine Memorial Park is located off George Washington Way near the Columbia River, and it was formally dedicated on November 10, 2011, the 52nd anniversary of the commissioning of the USS \"Triton\".\n\nTwo films of the period, \"Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea\" (\"pictured\") and \"Around the World Under the Sea\", dramatized globe-circling submerged voyages similar to Operation Sandblast. \"The Button-Down Mind of Bob Newhart\" comedy album included a sketch entitled \"The Cruise of the U.S.S. Codfish\" which was a monologue involving the final address by the captain to the crew of a nuclear-powered submarine after completing a two-year-long, around-the-world underwater voyage. Bob Newhart noted in a 2006 interview that:\n\nCaptain Beach reportedly played \"The Cruise of the U.S.S. Codfish\" over the ship's public address system during \"Triton\"s first overseas deployment in the Fall of 1960. Finally, Antigua-Barbuda issued a commemorative stamp of \"Triton\"s 1960 submerged circumnavigation.\n\nThe 50th anniversary of Operation Sandblast and \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation of the world was celebrated on 10 April 2010, during the 2010 Submarine Birthday Ball held at the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Mashantuket, Connecticut, with Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy (MCPON) Rick D. West delivering opening remarks (\"pictured\") to the 2,200 attendees. The U.S. Navy Submarine Force Library and Museum sponsored additional events and activities, entitled \"9,000 Leagues Under the Sea,\" between April 10–12 and April 14–18, 2010.\n\nAlso, on April 9, 2010, retired Admiral Henry G. Chiles, Jr., who served in \"Triton\" from 1963 to 1966, was the keynote speaker at the graduation class of the Basic Enlisted Submarine School at the New London Naval Submarine Base in Groton, Connecticut. The graduation class was named in honor of \"Triton\", and each graduate received a certificate of course completion and a commemorative coin celebrating the 50th anniversary of \"Triton\"s submerged circumnavigation. The Dolphin Scholarship Foundation used the 50th anniversary of Operation Sandblast to promote its \"Race Around the World\" fund-raising program to support its Dolphin Scholarship program. Finally, former members of \"Triton\"s crew received commemorative souvenirs of the ship's pressure hull at their 2010 re-union.\n\nOn 25 April 2010, the University of Texas Marine Science Institute posted a radio program article on its Science and the Sea web site commemorating Operation Sandblast and the .\n\nWriter-historian Carl LaVO wrote \"Incredible Voyage\" for the June 2010 edition of \"Naval History\" magazine, and John Beach wrote \"The First Submerged Circumnavigation\" for the April 2010 issue of \"The Submarine Review\", the official magazine of the Naval Submarine League. Mr. Beach is the nephew of Captain Edward L. Beach, the commanding officer of USS \"Triton\" during Operation Sandblast. Also, the Naval Institute Press published \"Beneath the Waves\" by Dr. Edward F. Finch, a 2010 biography of the late Captain Beach, which included extensive coverage of Operation Sandblast.\n\nThe legacy of Operation Sandblast on its 50th anniversary was summarized by retired Captain James C. Hay, who had served on \"Triton\" during its historic submerged around-the-world voyage. On the editorial page of the April 2010 issue of \"The Submarine Review\", the official magazine of the Naval Submarine League, Captain Hay noted:\n\nIt is truly a cruise which tested the crew's mettle and proved the skipper's \"tenacity\". More than that, however, it again proved to all who cared to listen that the US Navy could go anywhere, at anytime, and do what ever was required. It's a good sea story about doing what had to be done. On the fiftieth anniversary of the First Submerged Circumnavigation it's a good thing to do to re-read about one of the forerunners of all we've done since.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15470144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15470144", "title": "Ouzo effect", "text": "Ouzo effect\n\nThe ouzo effect (also louche or spontaneous emulsification) is a cloudy (\"louche\") oil-in-water emulsion that is formed when water is added to ouzo and other , such as pastis, rakı, arak, sambuca and absinthe. Such microemulsions occur with only minimal mixing and are highly stable.\n\nThe ouzo effect occurs when a strongly hydrophobic essential oil such as \"trans\"-anethole is dissolved in a water-miscible solvent, such as ethanol, and the concentration of ethanol is lowered by addition of small amounts of water.\n\nOil-in-water emulsions are not normally stable. Oil droplets coalesce until complete phase separation is achieved at macroscopic levels. Addition of a small amount of surfactant or the application of high shear rates (strong stirring) can stabilize the oil droplets.\n\nIn a water-rich ouzo mixture the droplet coalescence is dramatically slowed without mechanical agitation, dispersing agents, or surfactants. It forms a stable homogeneous fluid dispersion by liquid-liquid nucleation. The size of the droplets has been measured by small-angle neutron scattering to be on the order of a micron.\n\nUsing dynamic light scattering, Sitnikova et al. showed that the droplets of oil in the emulsion grow by Ostwald ripening, and that droplets do not coalesce. The Ostwald ripening rate is observed to diminish with increasing ethanol concentrations until the droplets stabilize in size with an average diameter of .\n\nBased on thermodynamic considerations of the multi-component mixture, the emulsion derives its stability from trapping between the binodal and spinodal curves in the phase diagram. However, the microscopic mechanisms responsible for the observed slowing of Ostwald ripening rates at increasing ethanol concentrations appear not fully understood.\n\nEmulsions have many commercial uses. A large range of prepared food products, detergents, and body-care products take the form of emulsions that are required to be stable over a long period of time. The ouzo effect is seen as a potential mechanism for generating surfactant-free microemulsions without the need for high-shear stabilisation techniques that are costly in large-scale production processes. The creation of a variety of dispersions such as pseudolatexes, silicone emulsions, and biodegradable polymeric nanocapsules, have been synthesized using the ouzo effect, though as stated previously, the exact mechanism of this effect remains unclear.\n\n"}
{"id": "902433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=902433", "title": "Pamukkale", "text": "Pamukkale\n\nPamukkale, meaning \"cotton castle\" in Turkish, is a natural site in Denizli in southwestern Turkey. The area is famous for a carbonate mineral left by the flowing water. It is located in Turkey's Inner Aegean region, in the River Menderes valley, which has a temperate climate for most of the year.\n\nThe ancient Greco-Roman city of Hierapolis was built on top of the white \"castle\" which is in total about long, wide and high. It can be seen from the hills on the opposite side of the valley in the town of Denizli, 20 km away.\n\nKnown as Pamukkale (Cotton Castle) or ancient Hierapolis (Holy City), this area has been drawing the weary to its thermal springs since the time of Classical antiquity. The Turkish name refers to the surface of the shimmering, snow-white limestone, shaped over millennia by calcium-rich springs. Dripping slowly down the vast mountainside, mineral-rich waters foam and collect in terraces, spilling over cascades of stalactites into milky pools below. Legend has it that the formations are solidified cotton (the area’s principal crop) that giants left out to dry.\n\nTourism is and has been a major industry in the area for thousands of years, due to the attraction of the thermal pools. As recently as the mid-20th century, hotels were built over the ruins of Hierapolis, causing considerable damage. An approach road was built from the valley over the terraces, and motor bikes were allowed to go up and down the slopes. When the area was declared a World Heritage Site, the hotels were demolished and the road removed and replaced with artificial pools.\n\nOvershadowed by natural wonder, Pamukkale’s well-preserved Roman ruins and museum have been remarkably underestimated and unadvertised; tourist brochures over the past 20 years have mainly featured photos of people bathing in the calcium pools. Aside from a small footpath running up the mountain face, the terraces are all currently off-limits, having suffered erosion and water pollution at the feet of tourists.\n\nPamukkale's terraces are made of travertine, a sedimentary rock deposited by water from the hot springs.\n\nIn this area, there are 17 hot water springs in which the temperature ranges from to . The water that emerges from the spring is transported to the head of the travertine terraces and deposits calcium carbonate on a section long covering an expanse of to . When the water, supersaturated with calcium carbonate, reaches the surface, carbon dioxide de-gasses from it, and calcium carbonate is deposited. Calcium carbonate is deposited by the water as a soft gel which eventually crystallizes into travertine.\n\nIn this museum, alongside historical artifacts from Hierapolis, there are also artifacts from Laodiceia, Colossae, Tripolis, Attuda and other towns of the Lycos (Çürüksu) valley. In addition to these, the museum has a large section devoted to artifacts found at Beycesultan Hüyük that includes some of the most beautiful examples of Bronze Age craft.\n\nArtifacts from the Caria, Pisidia and Lydia regions are also on display in this museum. The museum’s exhibition space consists of three closed areas of the Hierapolis Bath and the open areas in the eastern side which are known to have been used as the library and gymnasium. The artifacts in open exhibition space are mostly marble and stone. Hierapolis is broken down into ruins.\n\nPamukkale is a tourist attraction. It is recognized as a World Heritage Site together with Hierapolis. Hierapolis-Pamukkale was made a World Heritage Site in 1988.\n\nThe underground volcanic activity which causes the hot springs also forced carbon dioxide into a cave, which was called the Plutonium, which here means \"place of the god Pluto\". This cave was used for religious purposes by priests of Cybele, who found ways to appear immune to the suffocating gas.\n\nTadpoles can be found in the pools.\n\nThe hotels built in the 1960s were demolished as they were draining the thermal waters into their swimming pools and caused damage to the terraces. The water supply to the hotels is restricted in an effort to preserve the overall site and to allow deposits to regenerate.\n\nAccess to the terraces is not allowed and visitors are asked to follow the pathway.\n\nThe village of Pamukkale has two sister cities:\n\nThese locations are also well-known for their travertine formations:\n\n"}
{"id": "26726375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26726375", "title": "Planetary management", "text": "Planetary management\n\nPlanetary management is intentional global-scale management of Earth's biological, chemical and physical processes and cycles (water, carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, and others). Planetary management also includes managing humanity’s influence on planetary-scale processes. Effective planetary management aims to prevent destabilisation of Earth's climate, protect biodiversity and maintain or improve human well-being. More specifically, it aims to benefit society and the global economy, and safeguard the ecosystem services upon which humanity depends – global climate, freshwater supply, food, energy, clean air, fertile soil, pollinators, and so on.\n\nBecause of the sheer complexity and enormous scope of the task, it remains to be seen whether planetary management is a feasible paradigm for maintaining global sustainability. The concept currently has defenders and critics on both sides: environmentalist David W. Orr questions whether such a task can be accomplished with human help and technology or without first examining the underlying human causes, while geographer Vaclav Smil acknowledges that \"the idea of planetary management may seem preposterous to many, but at this time in history there is no rational alternative\".\n\nThe term has been around in science fiction novels since the 1970s. In 2004, the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme published “Global Change and the Earth System, a planet under pressure.” The publication’s executive summary concluded: “An overall, comprehensive, internally consistent strategy for stewardship of the Earth system is required”. It stated that a research goal is to define and maintain a stable equilibrium in the global environment. In 2009, the planetary boundaries concept was published in the science journal Nature. The paper identifies nine boundaries in the Earth system. Remaining within these nine boundaries, the authors suggest, may safeguard the current equilibrium.\n\nIn 2007, France called for UNEP to be replaced by a new and more powerful organization, the United Nations Environment Organization. The rationale was that UNEP’s status as a programme, rather than an organization in the tradition of the World Health Organization or the World Meteorological Organization, weakened it to the extent that it was no longer fit for purpose given current knowledge of the state of Earth. The call was backed by 46 countries. Notably, the top five emitters of greenhouse gases failed to support the call.\n\nTogether with planetary management, stewardship and environmental wisdom are different ways to manage the Earth or \"environmental worldviews\".\n\nIn particular:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100070", "title": "Protected areas of Queensland", "text": "Protected areas of Queensland\n\nQueensland is the second largest state in Australia. It contains 472 separate protected areas with a total land area of (4.02% of the state’s area). 223 of these are National parks, which is the highest number of any Australian state or territory, totalling (3.81% of the state’s area). Seven others are Scientific National Parks, totalling (0.03% of the state’s area).\n\nMarine protected areas within the Queensland jurisdiction consist of fish habitat areas declared under the \"Fisheries Act 1994\" and marine parks declared under the \"Marine Parks Act 2004\".\n\nFish habitat areas are listed in two lists - 'A' and 'B'.\n\n\n\nThe Queensland jurisdiction only included the following three marine parks as of 2016; the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is located within the Australian government's jurisdiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100073", "title": "Protected areas of Tasmania", "text": "Protected areas of Tasmania\n\nProtected areas of Tasmania consists of protected areas located within Tasmania and its immediate onshore waters, including Macquarie Island. It includes areas of crown land (public land) managed by Tasmanian Government agencies as well as private reserves. As of 2016, 51% of Tasmania's land area has some form of reservation classification, the majority is managed by the Tasmania Parks & Wildlife Service (about 42% of total Tasmanian land area). Marine protected areas cover about 7.9% of state waters.\n\nWithin each classification of reserve there may be a variation of IUCN categories which can serve as a rough guide of \"conservation significance\".\n\n\nAt 30 June 2016, Tasmania's terrestrial reserves cover (about 50.1% of the area of Tasmania), of which Tasmania Parks and Wildlife Service manages 823 reserves (about , or over 42% of the area of Tasmania).\n\nThe following table demonstrates the distribution of terrestrial protected areas as of June 2016, any marine areas are excluded. All protected areas not managed by Tasmania Parks and Wildlife Service or Sustainable Timber Tasmania is grouped into \"other\", including: formal and informal reserves on public land, reserves on private land, and Wellington Park.\n\nThere are several Commonwealth marine reserves in the vicinity of Tasmania, these reserves are not within state waters and are managed by the Australian government. All of the reserves are part of the South-east Commonwealth Marine Reserve Network which contains an additional 4 reserves.\nMarine protected areas (MPAs) in Tasmanian state waters are classed as either conservation area, national park or nature reserve. Only the nature reserve or national park class have either restricted fishing or no take zones. Of the approximately of marine protected areas, about is restricted fishing or no take, Macquarie Island (~) is a wholly no-take zone.\n\nIn total 7.9% of Tasmania’s State coastal waters is reserved, however only 4.2% is in no-take areas and the majority of this is concentrated around subantarctic Macquarie Island. Only 1.1% of Tasmania’s immediate coastal waters are fully protected in no-take areas.\n\nReserves on private land is about 4% of the terrestrial protected areas in Tasmania.\n\nLandowners may protect some areas of their land by entering into a Conservation Covenant which is legally binding under the \"Nature Conservation Act (2002)\" and is registered on the land title. Although usually in perpetuity, about 7% of the covenant area in Tasmania is fixed-term. In December 2016, there were 819 covenants covering an area of about .\n\nThere are 8 Indigenous Protected Area in Tasmania, covering an area of about .\n\nIUCN V\n\nIUCN VI\n\nLand reserved for the significant natural or cultural values while permitting the carrying out of agricultural or other activities consistent on preserving the values of the land.\n\nWellington Park is the protected area which encompasses Mount Wellington and surrounds near Hobart. It is IUCN protected area category II and covers an area of about . It is managed by the \"Wellington Park Management Trust\" established in 1993 whose members include: Hobart and Glenorchy City Councils, Tasmania Parks and Wildlife Service, DPIPWE, TasWater and Tourism Tasmania.\n\n'Future potential production forest land' (FPPF or FPPFL) is crown land administered by the Department of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and Environment (DPIPWE) where, except in some circumstances for \"special species timbers\", no native forest harvesting can be undertaken. It was formally classified as 'future reserve land' (FRL) under the Tasmanian Forests Agreement. FPPF may be converted to 'permanent timber production zone land' (PTPZ or PTPZL) after 2020.\n\nThe Tasmanian Forests Agreement which was passed in 2013 after almost 4 years of negotiations, categorised about of crown land native forest as FRL, which included areas of forests of the Styx, Weld, Upper Florentine, Great Western Tiers and Tarkine regions. The fate of FRL was dependent upon Tasmanian forest practices gaining Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification. In the recent 2014 audit, Forestry Tasmania (now Sustainable Timber Tasmania) complied with 193 indicators, but needed further action on 10 more.\n\nIn September 2014 the Tasmanian government passed legislation which reclassified the 400,000 hectares of FRL as FPPF. After the expiration of the memorandum in April 2020, areas of FPPF can be converted to PTPZ where native forest logging can occur, subject to parliamentary approval. Until 2020, only limited \"special species timber\" harvesting can be undertaken in FPPF.\n\nSustainable Timber Tasmania is a government business enterprise owned by the Tasmanian Government which manages and operates state forest on crown land (officially classified as 'permanent timber production zone land'). Some of this land has informal protection and is managed for conservation as part of the Tasmanian CAR reserve system (eg habitat for threatened species, streamside protection, landscape connectivity). Informal reserves on the public production forest land cover about .\n\nForest reserves are located on 'permanent timber production zone land' and may have recreation or other tourism facilities.\nA protected area of land predominantly in a natural state. The sustainable use of natural resources may be permitted, such as mining, special species timber harvesting or hunting. There are 438 conservation areas covering a terrestrial area of about . Mostly IUCN protected area categories IV, V or VI.\n\nConservation areas that are marine protected areas cover about of state waters, and are all IUCN protected area category VI. Marine conservation areas do not have any fishing restrictions.\nAn area of land conserved for containing natural values that are unique, important or have representative value; particularly games species and allowing the sustainable hunting these species. There are 12 game reserves covering an area of about , all are IUCN protected area category VI.\n\nLand with significant historic cultural heritage and is conserved for presentation of these features for public appreciation and education. There are 30 historic sites covering an area of about . Most are IUCN protected area category V.\n\nIUCN II\n\nIUCN IV\n\nIUCN V\n\nA national park in Tasmania is defined as a large natural area of land containing a representative or outstanding sample of major natural regions, features or scenery. National parks serve to protect and maintain the natural and cultural values of the area of land while providing for ecologically sustainable recreation. There are 19 national parks covering a terrestrial area of about , the largest protected area category in Tasmania.\n\nIUCN Ia or Ib\n\nIUCN II\n\nThree national parks also have a marine protected area component. These cover about of state waters.\n\n\nIs predominantly in a natural state or contains sensitive natural sites of significance for recreation. Reserved for public recreation and education consistent with conserving the values of the area. There are 25 nature recreation areas covering an area of about , mostly IUCN protected area category V.\n\nIUCN III\n\nIUCN V\n\nIUCN VI\n\nAn area of land that is conserved for the natural values that contribute to the natural biological or geological diversity of the area and are unique, important or have representative value. There are 86 nature reserves covering a terrestrial area of about . Mostly IUCN protected area category Ia.\n\nIUCN Ia\n\nIUCN IV\n\nIUCN V\n\nNature reserves that are marine protected areas cover about of state waters (includes Macquarie Island).\nMay have also previously been known as forest reserves, a regional reserve is an area of land with a high mineral potential or prospectively and is predominantly in a natural state. The purpose of reservation is for mineral exploration and the development of mineral deposits and/or the controlled use of other natural resources, including special species timber harvesting, while protecting and maintaining the natural and cultural values. There are 148 regional reserves covering an area of about , a majority are IUCN protected area category IV.\n\nIUCN III\n\nIUCN IV\n\nIUCN V\n\nIUCN VI\n\nAn area of land which provides protection and maintenance for significant natural landscapes, features, or sites of significance to Aboriginal people. There are 65 state reserves covering an area of about . Most are IUCN protected area category II or III.\n\nIUCN Ia\n\nIUCN II\n\nIUCN III\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42823663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42823663", "title": "Samson's riddle", "text": "Samson's riddle\n\nSamson's riddle is a riddle that appears in the biblical narrative about Samson. Samson wagered a riddle to thirty Philistine guests, in these words: \"Out of the eater, something to eat; out of the strong, something sweet\" (Judges 14:14). Instead of a fair riddle that could be discerned with deduction, the riddle was based on a private experience of Samson who killed a young lion (kephir) and after a while found bees and honey in its corpse. \"What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?\" (Judges 14:18) is the answer to the riddle. The Philistines, who could not solve the riddle, extorted the answer from Samson's wife, who persuaded Samson to tell it to her. The wager's prize was 30 soft under shirts (sedin) and good suits (chalipha) to the winner, for which Samson slew 30 Philistine men to pay the terms.\n\nThe Jewish sages and the medieval commentators accepted the story literally and did not pay much attention to the riddle. In modern times, many biblical scholars have studied the Samson cycle and its components, including Samson's riddle. Some of them, mainly influenced by form criticism, have tried to reconstruct the original background and meaning of the riddle and of other components in the story, under the assumption that story in its current form is the product of a combination of originally independent traditions; These scholars proposed diverse answers to the riddle, not necessarily related to the answer proposed in the biblical text. Other scholars investigated the riddle and the narrative surrounding it in their final form, as a literary work of art.\n\nSamson's riddle (Book of Judges 14:14).\n\nSamson's riddle is interwoven with the narrative about Samson and the woman from Timnah. This narrative appears in chapters 14-15 in the Book of Judges, and is part of the Samson cycle, which includes chapters 13-16. The first part of the narrative, in chapter 14, is the one that includes the riddle. There are several difficulties in the text, especially concerning Samson's parents involvement in the phases preceding the wedding, and concerning chronological aspects in the description of the feast and the riddle. In critical exegesis, these difficulties are usually treated assuming that the text has undergone several editorial phases. Traditional exegesis tends to harmonize the difficulties. \n\nThe first woman Samson befriended was a Philistine woman from Timnah, whom he chose as his appointed wife. His parents, Manoah and his wife, have pleaded him to take an Israelite wife instead, but Samson refused. They - and perhaps Samson himself - were not aware of the fact that Samson's stubbornness was part of a divine plan to provide him an excuse to strike the Philistines, as indeed will happen later. On his way to his wife Samson encountered a lion, and \"he tore the lion apart with his bare hands as he might have torn a young goat\" (Judges 14:6). Eventually, when Samson returned to the place where he killed the lion, he saw that a swarm of bees has created a hive in the carcass. Samson collected honey from the hive for himself and for his parents, not telling them or anyone else about the source of the honey.\n\nThe wedding feast was held at the wife's household. The incident with the lion became the subject of a riddle that Samson posed to his thirty Philistine guests in the feast: \"Out of the eater, something to eat; out of the strong, something sweet\". Samson promised to give the Philistines thirty expensive garments if they solve the riddle within seven days, or else, if they don't solve the riddle, they will give him such garments. The Philistines, who couldn't solve the riddle fairly, threaten the life of Samson's wife so that she would tell them the answer. The wife begged Samson to tell her the answer until he did so, then she told the answer to the Philistines, who told it to Samson: \"What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?\". Samson, who understood that the Philistines had blackmailed the answer from his wife, reacted furiously: \"If you had not plowed with my heifer, you would not have solved my riddle\". In order to pay his debt, Samson went to Ashkelon, murdered thirty Philistines and took their garments. After this incident, Samson left his wife angrily and returned to his own family. The incident has set in motion, according to the divine plan, a series of violent conflicts between Samson and the Philistines, as described later in the story.\n\nSome scholars, especially the earlier ones, influenced by form criticism, tend to assume that the distinctive elements of the riddle and its surrounding narrative had existed separately before the literary crystallization that interwove them together, and that their original form and meaning might have been different than those reflected in their current context. For example, the Philistines' answer appears in the text as the correct answer to the riddle, but it is possible that the original answer was different. Scholars of this attitude tend to focus on the various elements of the story and treat them individually, outside their current context, trying to understand their original background. Hereinafter, the individual elements of the story will be discussed according to this exegetical attitude.\n\nSome scholars think that the Samson cycle in general, and Samson's riddle and its surrounding narrative in particular, were largely influenced by ancient Greek culture; Some of them think that this influence was mediated by Philistine culture, which is generally thought to be related to Mycenaean culture. Accordingly, some scholars treat the narrative, or certain motifs in it, in light of parallel stories of Greek mythology and folklore. Another widely accepted assumption is that the narrative should be interpreted in light of themes related to sex and gender arising from the Samson cycle in general, and from the context of the wedding feast in particular, which implies an erotic and reckless atmosphere. Accordingly, some interpretations tend to the erotic or the vulgar.\n\nScholars have tried to explain the incident with the lion, which constitute the subject of the riddle. This incident, like other descriptions in Samson cycle, contains unrealistic elements: That Samson could tear apart the lion bare-handed is undoubtedly exceptional, but the description of bees nesting in the lion's carcass also seems unrealistic, as bees do not normally nest in carcasses. A few scholars have tried to explain the realistic background of this description, by suggesting, for example, that the bees nested in the lion's dry skeleton and not in his rotten carcass, but such opinions are uncommon. The common opinion is that this is a description of an exceptional or even miraculous event, like that of the tearing of the lion. Accordingly, most scholars ignore the realistic background of the description and treat it with literary methods.\n\nSome scholars examine the description with methods from comparative literature and form criticism. These scholars tend to separate between the description of the tearing of the lion and that of the bees and the honey, and to explain the background of each of these elements individually. It is widely conjectured that the two motifs originally existed separately, unrelated to each other and to Samson's riddle. Othniel Margalith, a scholar of Philistines and their culture, has suggested that the original background of the two motifs is Philistine-Mycenaean. \n\nThe tearing of the lion can be treated as a legendary description meant to exalt Samson as a superhuman hero, like other description in the Samson cycle that demonstrates his prodigious physical strength. The motif of a hero defeating a lion is widespread in world folklore, and appears in other places in the Hebrew Bible; it is told of David (1 Samuel 17:36) and about Benaiah (2 Samuel 23:20).\n\nAccording to Paul Carus, the lion is a mythical symbol of the heat of the sun, and Samson represents the solar deity who can \"kill the lion\", that is to diminish the heat of the sun. Carus' conjecture is rooted in an old scholarly approach, not accepted in current research, which considers Samson a mythological \"solar hero\" - that is, a god or a demigod related to the sun - and interprets the stories about him from this point of view.\n\nMargalith points out the fact that in other occurrences of the motif of the defeating of a lion in the bible, and in ancient Near East in general, the hero hunts the lion and doesn't kill him bare-handed as in the Samson story; On the other hand, this detail of killing the lion bare-handed is widespread in Greek sources. This indicates, according to Margalith, the Mycenaean background of the biblical story. Margalith compares the story about Samson tearing the lion to the story about Heracles killing the Nemean lion bare-handed; and to other heroes of Greek mythology, who like Samson kills a lion bare-handed on their way to captivate their beloved.\n\nScholars have suggested parallels to the motif of bees nesting in the lion's carcass. In this context one frequently mention the alleged ritual of bugonia - raising bees in a cow's carcass - described in Greek and Roman literary sources, in Virgil's \"Georgics\" for example. This fictitious literary description is understood in light of the ancient belief of spontaneous generation. Virgil describes bugonia as an Egyptian custom. Some speculate that the description arose in connection with the identity between \"apis\", the Latin word for \"bee\", and Apis, the Latin name of the Egyptian bull-deity. It is possible that the biblical description was influenced by a similar double meaning in Hebrew (see below). Also mentioned in the context of bees in the lion's carcass motif is the story about Onesilus and the bees that nested in his skull.\n\nThe riddle Samson posed to the Philistines is the only explicit example of a riddle in the Hebrew Bible. In its context, the answer to the riddle is honey from the lion's carcass: Honey is \"something to eat\" and \"something sweet\", and lion is \"the eater\" and \"something strong\". Apparently, the riddle is an unfair one, and can hardly be called a riddle, since it is based on a private experience of Samson which the Philistines could not possibly know about. The Philistine could not even think of an incident like this, since, as stated previously, bees do not normally hive in carcasses. In addition, the words \"Out of the eater, something to eat; out of the strong, something sweet\" can be interpreted in many ways other than referring to honey from a lion.\n\nMany commentators have been uncomfortable with the riddle's unsolvable nature, and they have tried to interpret it according to the assumption that it can be solved without knowledge of the incident with the lion and the bees. It is assumed that the riddle originally had an independent answer, not necessarily identical with the one stated in the biblical text, and that only at a later stage in the creation of the narrative was the riddle connected to the incident with the lion and the bees. For instance, it has been posited that the riddle's original meaning, or at least one of its possible meanings, is sexual, with the description of honey as \"something to eat\" and \"something sweet\" having originally referred to semen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27616117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27616117", "title": "San Remo Manual", "text": "San Remo Manual\n\nThe San Remo Manual on International Law Applicable to Armed Conflicts at Sea was adopted in June 1994 by the International Institute of Humanitarian Law after a series of round table discussions held between 1988 and 1994 by diplomats and naval and legal experts. It is \"the only comprehensive international instrument that has been drafted on the law of naval warfare since 1913.\" \n\nThe manual is a legally recognized document but is not binding on states. The Manual is a codification of customary international law, an integration of existing legal standards for naval conflict with the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and Protocol I of 1977.\n\nParagraph 67 of the Manual states that it is permitted for belligerents to attack merchant vessels flying the flag of neutral States outside of neutral waters if they \"are believed on reasonable grounds to be carrying contraband or breaching a blockade, and if after prior warning they intentionally and clearly refuse to stop, or intentionally and clearly resist visit, search or capture\". Paragraph 146 states that it is permitted to capture neutral merchant vessels outside neutral waters if they are engaged in any of the activities referred to in paragraph 67. The term \"neutral waters\" is defined in paragraph 14: \"Neutral waters consist of the internal waters, territorial sea, and, where applicable, the archipelagic waters, of neutral States. Neutral airspace consists of the airspace over neutral waters and the land territory of neutral States.\" \n\nThe \"Explanation\" of Article 102 that accompanies the text of the San Remo Manual clarifies that a declaration or establishment of a blockade is prohibited if it has the sole purpose of starving the civilian population or denying it other objects essential for its survival. It also provides that a blockade is rendered unlawful if the effect on the civilian population is excessive in relation to the lawful military purpose.\n\nThe San Remo Manual was cited by the Israeli government to justify its boarding and seizure of ships trying to break the Gaza blockade (see Legal assessments of the Gaza flotilla raid), as well as by the United Nations Human Rights Council's international fact-finding mission to support their finding that the seizure was illegal. The fact finding mission said that the blockade itself was an illegal form of collective punishment. In 2011 the UN-Secretary-General’s Panel of Inquiry came to the conclusion that the Gaza blockade had been legal, and recommended that Israel immediately report its use of force to the United Nations Security Council so it could find a permanent solution, as is required of Israel by the United Nations Charter.\n"}
{"id": "1190268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1190268", "title": "Suijin", "text": "Suijin\n\nThe term Suijin (literally water people or water deity) refers to the heavenly and earthly manifestations of the benevolent Shinto divinity of water. But it also refers to a wide variety of mythological and magical creatures found in lakes, ponds, springs and wells, including serpents (snakes and dragons), eels, fish, turtles, and the flesh-eating kappa. As The God of Water, Mizu no Kamisama, Mizugami, or Suijin, he is widely revered in Japan. He is a big part of Japanese culture and is often worshiped in temples. Suijin is also known as the Water God, and /Suiu (.\n\nSuijin is sometimes conflated with Ryūjin, the dragon kami who is also associated with water. Fudō Myōō is also sometimes termed Suijin because of his association with the waterfall. In most cases, however, Suijin appears simply as a stone plaque, or even a simple small stone set upright near a spring’s emergence.\n\nThe Water Kami is the guardian of the fishing folk, and a patron saint of fertility, motherhood, and easy childbirth. One reason people worship and praise the Water Kami and give offerings to it is to hope for pure and unpolluted water for human consumption, as well as for other uses like agriculture and sanitation. Other reasons of worship include praying for success in fishing trips, praying for successful and good fertility and motherhood, as well as for easy childbirth.\n\nShrines devoted to the worship of the Water Kami are called \"Suitengū Shrines\". One example is the Suitengū Shrine in Kurume (Fukuoka), which is the main shrine of all Suitengū Shrines in Japan. It is especially famous to those praying for safe and easy childbirth. Another famous Suitengū Shrine is the Tsukiji Suijin Shrine, located near the Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo, in order to protect and watch over the fishers and their businesses.\n\nThroughout Japan, this deity is widely worshipped at Suitengū Shrines and through the means of votive stone markers devoted to the Water Kami throughout the countryside. Most of these stone markers can be found enshrined at dikes of agricultural irrigation canals, along rice paddy fields, at mountain springs, normal springs, streams, rivers, wells, household wells, and even inside sewage water and septic tanks. When a Suijin stone marker is enshrined at mountain springs, that form sources for agricultural waterways, it is often labeled as Water distributing kami (mikumari no kami 水分神), in which cases they may also be associated with the kami of the mountain (Yama no Kami 山の神).\n\nThere is a vast amount of festivals that are dedicated to the Water Kami, most of them being concentrated in summer and winter, though emphasis is particularly placed on observances in summer. The core of the summer festival is found at the Yasaka Shrine in Kyoto and at the Tsushima Shrine in Tsushima (Aichi Prefecture). The observances have the significant role of exorcism of bad spirits and purification, especially aimed at dangerous epidemic diseases and water-related disasters which commonly happen during the summer.\n\nAn example list of some of the festivals based on worshipping Suijin (this list does not include all festivals):\n\n"}
{"id": "5048234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5048234", "title": "Syringe Tide", "text": "Syringe Tide\n\nThe Syringe Tide was an environmental disaster during 1987–88 in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York where significant amounts of medical waste, including hypodermic syringes, and raw garbage washed up onto beaches on the Jersey Shore, in New York City, and on Long Island. This forced the closing of beaches on the Atlantic coast. Officials scrambled to identify the source of the material as some local economies struggled with diminished tourism.\n\nReports of medical waste and sewage spills drove away hundreds of thousands of vacationers, costing the $7.7-billion-a-year tourism industry on the Jersey Shore more than $1 billion in lost revenue that summer, tourism officials say. Later the losses were tallied between 15 and 40% of typical tourism revenue. It was a source of even greater turmoil due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic of the 1980s. \n\nOfficials finally traced the source of the waste to the Fresh Kills Landfill on Staten Island. After much deliberation, New York City was required to pay $1 million for past pollution damages as well as pay for the cleanup. No reparations were paid to the business owners on the Jersey Shore for revenues lost during the months of inactivity.\n\nIn response to syringe tides of 1987 and 1988, the participants in the New Jersey Harbor Estuary Program (HEP) implemented an extremely successful effort, known as the Short-term Floatables Action Plan. The plan has been implemented since 1989 and is supposed to curtail floatable debris wash-ups by intercepting debris slicks within the Harbor. With this plan, the extent of beach closures declined from over in 1988 to fewer than in 1989, and closures have remained at a low level in later years. The Short-term Floatables Action Plan has four key elements:\n\n\nIt is thought that the Syringe Tide was the specific incident cited in Billy Joel's 1989 hit single \"We Didn't Start the Fire\" by the line \"Hypodermics on the shores.\" It was also the basis for Barbara Ehrenreich’s \"The Great Syringe Tide\".\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"The Old Man and the 'C' Student\", when punishing the students Principal Skinner sends Milhouse to the beach to \"pick up all this medical waste that's washed up on the shore.\" Milhouse accidentally pricks himself on a syringe, and Skinner replies \"Well, just keep working. You'll prick yourself with the antidote sooner or later.\"\n\nThe 1988 Skinny Puppy song \"Hospital Waste\" was written about the incident.\n\nIn the episode \"The Gang Goes to the Jersey Shore\" from \"It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia\", Frank and Mac are on a beach covered in needles but blame it on New Jersey being the steroid capital of the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "7260449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7260449", "title": "Taiga Rescue Network", "text": "Taiga Rescue Network\n\nTaiga Rescue Network (TRN) was an international network of more than 200 non-governmental organizations, indigenous peoples and individuals working to defend the world's boreal forests, also known as Taiga. TRN was established in 1992 to give a voice to support, link and publicize local struggles fighting for the boreal forests and its peoples. TRN no longer exists. In 2010, TRN held its last conference in Sweden. The website remained online until April 2013. \n\nTRN's mission was support local struggles and strengthen the cooperation between individuals, NGOs and indigenous peoples and nations concerned with the protection, restoration and sustainable use of the world' boreal forests by means that ensure the integrity of natural processes and dynamics.\n\nThe goals of the network were 1) Promoting socially beneficial, economically viable and ecologically sound management of the boreal forests; 2) Ensuring Indigenous Peoples rights are respected and local control of resources is guaranteed; 3) Protecting old-growth Northern forests; and 4) Halting destructive extraction and wasteful consumption of products from boreal forests.\n\nThe network worked to disseminate information among governments, industry, and the general public about boreal forest issues by publishing Taiga News, a quarterly publication covering social and environmental issues relating to the entire boreal region; producing fact sheets on sensitive areas under particular threat; compiling profiles of key industry players; publishing reports and studies that critically analyze the trends and challenges facing the boreal region; participating in an ongoing dialogue with public administrations and the private sector on local, national and international levels to strengthen environmental regulations related to forest protection and sustainable forest management in the boreal region; organizing a biennial international conference bringing together various stakeholders (scientists, environmental organizations, indigenous peoples support groups, industry, media).\n\nTRN promoted cooperation through joint projects among NGOs and indigenous peoples by uniting and informing the NGO and indigenous communities through meetings, conferences and seminars; publishing a monthly internal newsletter The Boreal Bulletin with concise and up to date strategic information; managing several topical email lists to improve project coordination and information exchange; supporting environmentalists and indigenous peoples in the boreal region with small grants.\n\nThe network coordinated NGO input into various national and international processes and facilitate joint position papers outlining the NGO vision for sustainable forestry in the boreal region; monitored the various national and international certification and ecolabelling processes and supported independent, performance based certification, such as the approach promoted by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); identified forests with high conservation value and work towards their conservation through the establishment of protected areas; and lead the way in mapping trade links of boreal products.\n\n"}
{"id": "565217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=565217", "title": "Teide", "text": "Teide\n\nMount Teide (, , \"Teide Peak\") is a volcano on Tenerife in the Canary Islands, Spain. Its 3,718-metre (12,198 ft) summit is the highest point in Spain and the highest point above sea level in the islands of the Atlantic.\n\nIf measured from the ocean floor, it is at 7,500 m (24,600 ft) the highest volcano in the world base-to-peak outside of the Hawaiian Islands, and is described by UNESCO and NASA as Earth's third-tallest volcanic structure. Teide's elevation makes Tenerife the tenth highest island in the world. Teide is an active volcano: its most recent eruption occurred in 1909 from the El Chinyero vent on the northwestern Santiago rift. The United Nations Committee for Disaster Mitigation designated Teide a Decade Volcano because of its history of destructive eruptions and its proximity to several large towns, of which the closest are Garachico, Icod de los Vinos and Puerto de la Cruz. Teide, Pico Viejo and Montaña Blanca form the Central Volcanic Complex of Tenerife.\n\nThe volcano and its surroundings comprise Teide National Park, which has an area of and was named a World Heritage Site by UNESCO on June 28, 2007. Teide is the most visited natural wonder of Spain, the most visited national park in Spain and Europe and – by 2015 – the eighth most visited in the world, with some 3 million visitors yearly. In 2016, it was visited by 4,079,823 visitors and tourists reaching a historical record. Teide Observatory, a major international astronomical observatory, is located on the slopes of the mountain.\n\nBefore the 1496 Spanish colonization of Tenerife, the native Guanches referred to a powerful figure living in the volcano, which carries light, power and the sun. \"El Pico del Teide\" is the modern Spanish name. Nowadays the name Teide is also used as a personal name.\n\nTeide was a sacred mountain for the aboriginal Guanches, so it was considered a mythological mountain, as Mount Olympus was to the ancient Greeks. According to legend, Guayota (the devil) kidnapped Magec (the god of light and the sun) and imprisoned him inside the volcano, plunging the world into darkness. The Guanches asked their supreme god Achamán for clemency, so Achamán fought Guayota, freed Magec from the bowels of the mountain, and plugged the crater with Guayota. It is said that since then, Guayota has remained locked inside Teide. When going on to Teide during an eruption, it was customary for the Guanches to light bonfires to scare Guayota. Guayota is often represented as a black dog, accompanied by his host of demons (Tibicenas).\n\nThe Guanches also believed that Teide held up the sky. Many hiding places found in the mountains contain the remains of stone tools and pottery. These have been interpreted as being ritual deposits to counter the influence of evil spirits, like those made by the Berbers of Kabylie. The Guanches believed the mountain to be the place that housed the forces of evil and the most evil figure, Guayota.\n\nGuayota shares features similar to other powerful deities inhabiting volcanoes, such as the goddess Pele of Hawaiian mythology, who lived in the Kīlauea volcano and was regarded by the native Hawaiians as responsible for the eruptions of the volcano.\nThe stratovolcanoes Teide and Pico Viejo (Old Peak, although it is in fact younger than Teide) are the most recent centres of activity on the volcanic island of Tenerife, which is the largest () and highest () island in the Canaries. It has a complex volcanic history. The formation of the island and the development of the current Teide volcano took place in the five stages shown in the diagram on the right.\n\nLike the other Canary Islands, and volcanic ocean islands in general, Tenerife was built by accretion of three large shield volcanoes, which developed in a relatively short period. This early shield stage volcanism formed the bulk of the emerged part of Tenerife. The shield volcanoes date back to the Miocene and early Pliocene and are preserved in three isolated and deeply eroded massifs: Anaga (to the northeast), Teno (to the northwest) and Roque del Conde (to the south). Each shield was apparently constructed in less than three million years, and the entire island in about eight million years.\n\nThe initial juvenile stage was followed by a period of 2–3 million years of eruptive quiescence and erosion. This cessation of activity is typical of the Canaries; La Gomera, for example, is currently at this stage. After this period of quiescence, the volcanic activity became concentrated within two large edifices: the central volcano of Las Cañadas, and the Anaga massif. The Las Cañadas volcano developed over the Miocene shield volcanoes and may have reached in diameter and in height.\n\nAround 160–220 thousand years ago the summit of the Las Cañadas I volcano collapsed, creating the Las Cañadas (Ucanca) caldera. Later, a new stratovolcano, Las Cañadas II, formed in the vicinity of Guajara and then catastrophically collapsed. Another volcano, Las Cañadas III, formed in the Diego Hernandez sector of the caldera. All of the Las Cañadas volcanoes attained a maximum altitude similar to that of Teide (which is sometimes referred to as the Las Cañadas IV volcano).\n\nTwo theories on the formation of the caldera exist. The first states that the depression is the result of a vertical collapse of the volcano triggered by the emptying of shallow magma chambers at around sea level under the Las Cañadas volcano after large-volume explosive eruptions. The second theory is that the caldera was formed by a series of lateral gravitational collapses similar to those described in Hawaii. Evidence for the latter theory has been found in both onshore observations and marine geology studies.\n\nFrom around 160,000 years ago until the present day, the stratovolcanoes of Teide and Pico Viejo formed within the Las Cañadas caldera.\n\nTeide last erupted in 1909 from the El Chinyero vent, on the Santiago Ridge. Historical volcanic activity on the island is associated with vents on the Santiago or northwest rift (Boca Cangrejo in 1492, Montañas Negras in 1706, Narices del Teide or Chahorra in 1798 and El Chinyero in 1909) and the Cordillera Dorsal or northeast rift (Fasnia in 1704, Siete Fuentes and Arafo in 1705). The 1706 Montañas Negras eruption destroyed the town and principal port of Garachico, as well as several smaller villages.\n\nHistorical activity associated with the Teide and Pico Viejo stratovolcanoes occurred in 1798 from the Narices del Teide on the western flank of Pico Viejo. Eruptive material from Pico Viejo, Montaña Teide and Montaña Blanca partially fills the Las Cañadas caldera. The last explosive eruption involving the central volcanic centre was from Montaña Blanca around 2000 years ago. The last eruption within the Las Cañadas caldera occurred in 1798 from the Narices del Teide or Chahorra (Teide's Nostrils) on the western flank of Pico Viejo. The eruption was predominantly strombolian in style and most of the lava was ʻAʻā. This lava is visible beside the Vilaflor–Chio road.\n\nChristopher Columbus reported seeing \"a great fire in the Orotava Valley\" as he sailed past Tenerife on his voyage to discover the New World in 1492. This was interpreted as indicating that he had witnessed an eruption there. Radiometric dating of possible lavas indicates that in 1492 no eruption occurred in the Orotava Valley, but one did occur from the Boca Cangrejo vent.\n\nThe last summit eruption from Teide occurred about the year 850 AD, and this eruption produced the \"Lavas Negras\" or \"Black Lavas\" that cover much of the flanks of the volcano.\n\nAbout 150,000 years ago, a much larger explosive eruption occurred, probably of Volcanic Explosivity Index 5. It created the Las Cañadas caldera, a large caldera at about 2,000 m above sea level, around from east to west and from north to south. At Guajara, on the south side of the structure, the internal walls rise as almost sheer cliffs from . The summit of Teide itself, and its sister stratovolcano Pico Viejo (), are both situated in the northern half of the caldera and are derived from eruptions later than this prehistoric explosion.\n\nFuture eruptions may include pyroclastic flows and surges similar to those that occurred at Mount Pelée, Merapi, Vesuvius, Etna, Soufrière Hills, Mount Unzen and elsewhere. During 2003, there was an increase in seismic activity at the volcano and a rift opened on the north-east flank. No eruptive activity occurred but a volume of material - possibly liquid, was emplaced into the edifice and is estimated to have a volume of ~10 m. Such activity can indicate that magma is rising into the edifice, but is not always a precursor to an eruption.\n\nTeide additionally is considered structurally unstable and its northern flank has a distinctive bulge. The summit of the volcano has a number of small active fumaroles emitting sulfur dioxide and other gases, including low levels of hydrogen sulfide.\n\nA scientific assessment in 2006, published in the journal Eos, observed that \"in the past 30,000 years, eruptions have occurred at a rate of only four to six per millennium, with a predominance (70%) of very low hazard, basaltic eruptions\". The authors further commented that \"the recent eruptive record, combined with the available petrological and radiometric data, provides a rather optimistic outlook on major volcanic hazards related to Teide and its rift zones, posing only very localized threats to the one million inhabitants of Tenerife and the 4.5 million annual visitors to Teide National Park.\" However, another study in 2009 concluded that Teide will probably erupt violently in the future and that its structure is similar to that of Vesuvius and Etna. Thus the magnitude of the risk posed by Teide to the public remains a source of debate.\n\nIn a publication of 1626, Sir Edmund Scory, who probably stayed on the island in the first decades of the 17th century, gives a description of Teide, in which he notes the suitable paths to the top and the effects the considerable height causes to the travellers, indicating that the volcano had been accessed via different routes before the 17th century. In 1715 the English traveler J. Edens and his party made the ascent and reported their observations in the journal of the Royal Society in London.\n\nAfter the Enlightenment, most of the expeditions that went to East Africa and the Pacific had Teide as one of the most rewarding targets. The expedition of Lord George Macartney, George Staunton and John Barrow in 1792 almost ended in tragedy, as a major snowstorm and rain swept over them and they failed to reach the peak of Teide, just barely getting past Montaña Blanca.\n\nThe German scientist Alexander von Humboldt stopped in Tenerife during his voyage to South America in 1799 and climbed Teide with his travelling companion Aimé Bonpland and some local guides.\n\nDuring an expedition to Kilimanjaro, the German adventurer Hans Heinrich Joseph Meyer visited Teide in 1894 to observe ice conditions on the volcano. He described the two mountains as \"two kings, one rising in the ocean and the other in the desert and steppes\".\n\nMore recently in November 2017, Gema Hassen-Bey became the first Paralympic athlete in the world in a wheelchair to reach 3,000 meters altitude with only the momentum of her arms. Initially, Gema wanted to reach the top of Teide, although, due to weather conditions, she could not meet this objective.\n\nThe lava flows on the flanks of Teide weather to a very thin but nutrient- and mineral-rich soil that supports a wide variety of plant species. Vascular flora consists of 168 plant species, 33 of which are endemic to Tenerife.\n\nForests of Canary Island Pine (\"Pinus canariensis\") with Canary Island juniper (\"Juniperus cedrus\") occur from , covering the middle slopes of the volcano and reaching an alpine tree line lower than that of continental mountains at similar latitudes. Within the Las Cañadas caldera and at higher altitudes, plant species endemic to the Teide National Park include: the Teide white broom (\"Spartocytisus supranubius\"), which has white flowers; \"Descurainia bourgaeana\", a shrubby crucifer with yellow flowers; the Canary Island wallflower (\"Erysimum scoparium\"), which has violet flowers; and the Teide bugloss (\"Echium wildpretii\"), whose red flowers form a pyramid up to in height. The Teide daisy (\"Argyranthemum teneriffae\") can be found at altitudes close to above sea level, and the Teide violet (\"Viola cheiranthifolia\") can be found right up to the summit, making it the highest flowering plant in Spain.\n\nThese plants are adapted to the tough environmental conditions on the volcano, such as high altitude, intense sunlight, extreme temperature variations, and lack of moisture. Adaptations include hemispherical forms, a downy or waxy cover, a reduction of the exposed leaf area, and a high flower production. Flowering takes place in the late spring or early summer, in May and June.\n\nTeide National Park contains a large number of invertebrate species, over 40% of which are endemic species, and 70 of which are found only in the National Park. The invertebrate fauna includes spiders, beetles, dipterans, hemipterans, and hymenopterae.\n\nIn contrast, Teide National Park has only a limited variety of vertebrate fauna. Ten species of bird nest there, including the blue chaffinch (\"Fringilla teydea teydea\"), Berthelot's pipit (\"Anthus berthelotii berthelotii\"), the Atlantic canary (\"Serinus canaria\") and a subspecies of kestrel (\"Falco tinnunculus canariensis\").\n\nThree endemic reptile species are found in the park: the Canary Island lizard (\"Gallotia galloti galloti\"), the Canary Island wall gecko (\"Tarentola delalandii\"), and the Canary Island skink (\"Chalcides viridanus viridanus\").\nThe only mammals native to the park are bats, the most common of which is Leisler’s bat (\"Nyctalus leisleri\"). Other mammals, such as the mouflon, the rabbit, the house mouse, the black rat, the feral cat, and the North African hedgehog, have all been introduced to the park.\n\nTeide casts the world's largest shadow projected on the sea. This phenomenon occurs during sunset, and also causes the shadow to partially cover the island of Gran Canaria or La Gomera at dawn, more than 40 km away from the mountain. One characteristic is that the shadow has a perfectly triangular shape, even though Teide's silhouette does not; this is an effect of perspective. Visitors and tourists climb to the top of the volcano at sunset to witness this phenomenon.\n\nTeide National Park is a useful volcanic reference point for studies related to Mars because of the similarities in their environmental conditions and geological formations. In 2010 a research team tested the Raman instrument at Las Cañadas del Teide in anticipation of its use in the 2016–2018 ESA-NASA ExoMars expedition. In June 2011 a team of researchers from the UK visited the park to test a method for looking for life on Mars and to search for suitable places to test new robotic vehicles in 2012.\n\nThe volcano and its surroundings, including the whole of the Las Cañadas caldera, are protected in the Teide National Park. Access is by a public road running from northeast to southwest across the caldera. TITSA runs a return service to Teide once a day from both Puerto de la Cruz and Playa de las Americas. The park has a parador (hotel) and a small chapel. A cable car goes from the roadside at most of the way to the summit, reaching , carrying up to 38 passengers (34 in a high wind) and taking eight minutes to reach the summit. Queues can exceed two hours in peak season. Access to the summit itself is restricted; a free permit is required to climb the last . Numbers are normally restricted to 200 per day.\n\nSeveral footpaths take hikers to the upper cable car terminal, and then onto the summit (with the permit). The most popular route is via the Refugio de Altavista, however these are demanding hikes requiring at least 4–5 hours of ascent.\n\nBecause of the altitude, the air is significantly thinner than at sea level. This can cause people (especially with heart or lung conditions) to become light-headed or dizzy, to develop altitude sickness, and in extreme cases to lose consciousness. The only treatment is to return to lower altitudes and acclimatise.\n\nAn astronomical observatory is located on the slopes of the mountain, taking advantage of the altitude (above most clouds), good weather and stable seeing from the site. The Teide Observatory is operated by the Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias. It includes solar, radio and microwave telescopes, in addition to traditional optical night-time telescopes.\n\nTeide is the main symbol of Tenerife and the most emblematic natural monument of the Canary Islands. An image of Teide appears gushing flames at the centre of Tenerife's coat of arms. Above the volcano appears St. Michael, the patron saint of Tenerife. The flag colors of the island are dark blue, traditionally identified with the sea that surrounds the island, and white for the whiteness of the snow-covered peaks of Mount Teide during winter. The logo of the Cabildo de Tenerife (governing body of the island) includes a symbol of Teide in eruption.\n\nTeide has been depicted frequently throughout history, from the earliest engravings made by European conquerors to typical Canarian craft objects, on the back of 1000-peseta notes, in oil paintings and on postcards.\n\nIn the Canary Islands, especially on Tenerife, Teide has cultural symbolism deeply rooted in traditions and history. It is popularly referred to as \"Padre Teide\" (Father Teide).\n\nMons Pico, one of the Montes Teneriffe range of lunar mountains in the inner ring of the Mare Imbrium, was named by Johann Hieronymus Schröter after the \"Pico von Teneriffe\", an 18th-century name for Teide.\n\nThere is also a brown dwarf star located in the open star cluster of the Pleiades called Teide 1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4381744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4381744", "title": "Tigerwood", "text": "Tigerwood\n\nTigerwood is common name for lumber produced from several species of tropical trees:\n\n"}
{"id": "2732103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2732103", "title": "Tihar (festival)", "text": "Tihar (festival)\n\nTihar () Kirat language and culture is a five-day-long Nepali festival celebrated in Nepal and the Nepali people of Indian states of Sikkim including in Darjeeling district of West Bengal. It is the festival of lights, as \"diyas\" are lit inside and outside the houses to make it illuminate at night. It is popularly known as \"Swanti\" and Mha worship among the Newars and as \"Deepawali\" among Madhesis. Set in the Vikram Samvat calendar, the festival begins with Kaag Tihar in Trayodashi of Kartik Krishna Paksha and ends with Bhai Tika in Dwitiya of Kartik Sukla Paksha every year. Tihar is also known as the festival of light.\n\nTihar is the second biggest Nepalese festival after Dashain. It is considered to be of great importance as it shows a contribution to not just the humans and the gods, but also to the animals like crows, cows, and dogs that maintain an intimate relationship with humans. People make patterns on the floor of living rooms or courtyards using several coloured flowers in ancients days nowadays they use the materials such as colored rice, dry flour, colored sand or flower petals outside their house, called \"Rangoli\", which is meant to be a sacred welcoming area for the Gods and Goddesses, mainly Goddess Laxmi. \n\nCrows and ravens are worshiped by offerings of sweets and dishes placed on the roofs of houses. The cawing of crows and ravens symbolizes sadness and grief in Nepali culture, so devotees offer crows and ravens food to avert grief and death in their homes. Tihar represents the divine attachment between humans and other animals.\n\nAnother interesting observation during Tihar days in Nepal is gambling: during the days of the festival, it's allowed to gamble, while the rest of the year it's illegal for Nepalese citizens to gamble.\n\nKaag Tihar (Crow Festival) is the first day of Tihar festival of Nepalese, Hindu people. In this particular day the crow is worshipped. Religious beliefs in Nepal regard the crow as the messenger of Yamraj, god of death. People worship the crow to bring good luck in their houses. People also put on tika and burn fire crackers on Kaag Tihar.\n\nThe second day is called Kukur Tihar (Dog Festival).. People offer garlands, tika and delicious food to dogs and acknowledge the cherished relationship between humans and dogs.\n\nDogs occupy a special place in every home or street and they get special treatment in this day. As mentioned in the Mahabharata, Bhairava, a fierce manifestation of Lord Shiva, had a dog as a vahana (vehicle). Yama, the god of death, is believed to own two guard dogs – each with four eyes. The dogs are said to watch over the gates of Naraka, the Hindu concept of Hell. Owing to this belief, this day is also observed as Naraka Chaturdashi.\n\nThe morning of the third day is Gai Tihar (worship of the cow). In Hinduism, cow signifies prosperity and wealth. In ancient times people benefited a lot from the cow. Its milk, dung, even urine was used for purposes like purification. Thus, on this day people show their gratefulness to the cow by garlanding and feeding them with the best grass. Houses are cleaned and the doorways and windows are decorated with garlands made of Saya Patri (marigolds) and makhamali (\"Gomphrena globosa\") flowers.\n\nIn the evening Laxmi, the goddess of wealth is thanked for all the benefits that were bestowed on the families by lighting oil lamps (Diyo) or candles on doorways and windows to welcome prosperity and well being. At night the girls enjoy dancing and visiting all the houses in the neighborhood with musical instruments singing and dancing known as \"Bhailo\" all night long collecting money as a tip from houses and share the bounty amongst themselves.\n\nFrom the third day onward Tihar is celebrated with \"Deusi\" and \"Bhailo\" with light and fireworks. Deusi is mostly sung by the boys while the Bhailo is sung by the girls. Deusi is balladic and tells the story of the festival, with one person narrating and the rest as the chorus. In return, the home owners give them money, fruit and \"selroti\" (a Nepali roundel made of rice flour and sugar). Nowadays social workers, politician, and young people visit local homes, sing these songs, and collect funds for welfare and social activities.\n\nCoincidentally, Laxmi Puja also marks the birthday of Laxmi Prasad Devkota, who is widely revered and honoured as the greatest poet of Nepali language.\n\nBackground. Mainly ox is worshipped in this day by giving different foods. It is observed as Goru Tihar or Goru Puja (worship of the oxen). People who follow Vaishnavism perform Govardhan Puja, which is worship towaewar]] community on the night perform Mha Puja (worship of self). This day is seen as the beginning of the new Nepal Sambat calendar year of Newari people.\n\nThe fifth and last day of Tihar is called \"Bhai Tika\" . It is observed by sisters applying \"tilaka\" or \"tika\" to the foreheads of their brothers to ensure long life and thank them for the protection they provide. It is believed that Yamraj, the God of Death, visited his sister, Goddess Yamuna, on this day during which she applied the auspicious \"tika\" on his forehead, garlanded him and fed him special dishes. Together, they ate sweets, talked and enjoyed themselves to their hearts' content. Upon parting, Yamraj gave the Yamuna a special gift as a token of his affection and, in return, Yamuna gave him a lovely gift which she had made with her own hands. That day Yamraj announced that anyone who receives \"tilak\" from his sister will never die on that day.\n\nSisters make a special garland for their brothers from a flower that wilts only after a long time, symbolizing the sister's prayer for her brother long live. Brothers sit on the floor while their sisters perform their \"puja\". The \"puja\" follows a traditional ritual in which sisters circle brothers, dripping oil on the floor from a copper pitcher and applying oil to their brother's hair, following which a seven-color \"tikas\" is applied on the brother's forehead. Next, brothers give \"tikas\" to their sisters in the same fashion with an exchange of gifts. This ritual is practiced regardless of whether the brother is younger or older than the sister. Those without a sister or brother join relatives or friends for \"tika\". This festival strengthens the close relationship between brothers and sisters.\n\nIn addition to these, Newars make colourful Ashtamangala mandalas and recite chants and procedures in accordance with Tantric rituals. Along with the seven-coloured \"tika\", sisters provide brothers with Sagun, sweets, \"Makhamali\" \"(Gomphrena globosa)\" garland, and a sacred cotton thread of Tantric importance, similar to Janai thread meant to protect their bodies.\n"}
{"id": "509409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509409", "title": "Vacation", "text": "Vacation\n\nA vacation or holiday is a leave of absence from a regular occupation, or a specific trip or journey, usually for the purpose of recreation or tourism. People often take a vacation during specific holiday observances, or for specific festivals or celebrations. Vacations are often spent with friends or family.\n\nA person may take a longer break from work, such as a sabbatical, gap year, or career break.\n\nThe concept of taking a vacation is a recent invention, and has developed through the last two centuries. Historically, the idea of travel for recreation was a luxury that only wealthy people could afford (see Grand Tour). In the Puritan culture of early America, taking a break from work for reasons other than weekly observance of the Sabbath was frowned upon. However, the modern concept of vacation was led by a later religious movement encouraging spiritual retreat and recreation. The notion of breaking from work periodically took root among the middle and working class.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"vacation\" once specifically referred to the long summer break taken by the law courts and then later the term was applied to universities. The custom was introduced by William the Conqueror from Normandy where it facilitated the grape harvest. In the past, many upper-class families moved to a summer home for part of the year, leaving their usual home vacant.\n\nRecent developments in communication technology—internet, mobile, instant messaging, presence tracking, etc.— have begun to change the nature of vacation. Vacation today means absence from the workplace rather than temporary cession of work. It is now the norm in North America and the United Kingdom to carry on working or remain on call while on vacation rather than abandon work altogether. Office employees telecommute whilst on vacation. Workers may choose to unplug for a portion of a day and thus create the feeling of a \"vacation\" by simply separating themselves from the demands of constant digital communications. Antithetically, workers may take time out of the office to go on vacation, but remain plugged-in to work-related communications networks. While remaining plugged-in over vacation may generate short-term business benefits, the long-term psychological impacts of these developments are only beginning to be understood.\n\n\"Vacation\", in English-speaking North America, describes recreational travel, such as a short pleasure trip, or a journey abroad. People in Commonwealth countries use the term \"holiday\" to describe absence from work as well as to describe a vacation or journey. Vacation can mean either staying home or going somewhere.\n\nCanadians often use \"vacation\" and \"holiday\" interchangeably referring to a trip away from home or time off work. In Australia and the UK, \"holiday\" can refer to a vacation or a public holiday.\n\nThe Vanderbilts, Rockefellers, Carnegies, Huntingtons and other fabulously wealthy industrialists built their own spectacular \"great camps\" in the Adirondacks of upstate New York where they could spend time with their families in private luxury. The scions of New York City took to declaring that they would \"vacate\" their city homes for their lakeside summer retreats, and the term \"vacation\" replaced the British \"holiday\" in common parlance.\n\nIn Hungarian, the word \"vakáció\" can mean both a recreational trip, an officially granted absence from work (generally in warmer months), and the summer (longest) school break. For absence from work, the word \"szabadság\" (freedom/liberty) can be used, possibly as \"betegszabadság\" (sickness freedom/sickness liberty) when the reason of absence is medical in nature.\n\nFamily vacation refers to recreation taken together by the family. The intended purpose of family vacation is for family to get away from day-to-day chores and to devote time specifically for the relaxation and unity of family members. Family vacation can be ritual—for example, annually around the same time—or it can be a one-time event. It can involve travel to a far-flung spot or, for families on a tight budget, a stay-at-home staycation. Some examples of favorite family vacations might include family cruises, trips to popular theme parks, ski vacations, beach vacations, food vacations or similar types of family trips.\n\nIn nearly all countries worldwide, there are minimum requirements as to the annual leave that must be afforded to an employee (see also List of minimum annual leave by country).\n\nEven in the United States, where no federal requirements as to minimum annual leave exist, many large corporations have generous vacation policies, some allowing employees to take weeks off and some even allowing unlimited vacation. Unlimited vacation arrangements may nonetheless come with implicit expectations, for instance, it may be implied that an employee should not take more than about the average number of vacation days taken by others. They normally also have the consequence that employees who leave the company receive no monetary compensation for leave days not taken.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Travel Association, Americans collectively did not use 662 million vacation days in 2016. More than half of all working people in the United States forfeited paid time off at the end of the year. Two-thirds of people still do work while they are on vacation.\n\nFamily vacation and vacation in general has become a common theme in many books, films and movies. Writers often draw on common occurrences that take place during a vacation such as bonding and disasters.\n"}
{"id": "4902263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4902263", "title": "Warren H. Manning", "text": "Warren H. Manning\n\nWarren Henry Manning (November 7, 1860–1938) was an American landscape designer and promoter of the informal and naturalistic \"wild garden\" approach to garden design. In his designs, Manning emphasized pre-existing flora through a process of selective pruning to create a “spatial structure and character.” (Karson, 1997) An advocate for the conservation of the American landscape, Manning was a key figure in the formation of the American Society of Landscape Architects and a proponent of the National Park System.\n\nWarren H. Manning was born in Reading, Massachusetts, to Jacob Warren Manning, who owned and operated a nursery. It was here that Manning developed an extensive knowledge of plant materials. Jacob Manning nourished his son’s interest in horticulture by including him on botanical expeditions and visits to other nurseries including the Downing nursery, owned by Charles Downing, brother of Andrew Jackson Downing (Karson, 2000). Manning also credited his mother, Lydia, a watercolorist, for his appreciation of the smaller details found in nature by exposing him to the home garden, pointing out “birds, flowers, toads, butterflies and beetles (Karson, 1997). Manning wrote that he “modeled in sand and mud hills, valleys, tunnels, houses, roads, and gardens with pools” (Karson, 1997). In 1884, this exposure, coupled with the internship experience at his father’s nursery, led to his desire to make “America a finer place in which to live” (Karson, 1997) and to choose landscape design as a profession.\n\nBy 1884, the 26-year-old Manning was designing landscapes for James Warren Manning’s customers. During his time as an apprentice, Manning furthered his plant knowledge while attending Harvard’s Olmsted designed Arnold Arboretum for Saturday study sessions, foreshadowing what would eventually be one of Manning’s greatest influences. During this time, Manning also found time to go on plant hunting trips in the White Mountains (New Hampshire) (Stan Hywet Hall and Gardens 2007).\n\nIn 1885, Manning married his wife, Nellie Hamblin Pratt. Three years later, he left his father’s nursery pursuing his goal, seeking the company of the “most eminent man in the landscape profession\" (Stan Hywet Hall and Gardens 2007). His searching landed him in the office of one of the most influential landscape architects of his time; Frederick Law Olmsted.\n\nHere Manning’s extensive knowledge of plant materials was utilized in the planting designs of such projects as the Chicago Columbian Exposition of 1893. Manning was responsible for the final planting scheme and installation of the horticultural displays of the park (Karson, 1997). At the Olmsted office, Manning also worked on the planting design of the Biltmore Estate of George Vanderbilt in Asheville, North Carolina and extensive park designs in Milwaukee, Buffalo, Rochester, Chicago, Trenton and Washington, D.C.. Initially signed on as planting supervisor, his extensive horticultural knowledge quickly expanded his function at the firm, and during his eight-year employment, he participated in 125 projects in 22 states. While working under Olmsted, Manning gained invaluable experience in planned industrial settings, which would play a key role in his later career. While working with Charles Eliot, a partner at the firm, on the Boston Metropolitan Park System, Manning was exposed to thorough and extensive research of a site and the method of overlaying sketches of topography, roads, water features, etc. over sketches of vegetation (Karson 2000). This method of resource-planning would be used over and over in Manning’s career.\n\nIn 1896, Manning left the Olmsted office to begin his own business on Tremont Street near the Boston Common. Aware that Frederick Olmsted Sr. would pass his business on to both of his sons and partner Charles Eliot, Manning decided to start out on his own (Karson, 2000). When Manning left the firm, Olmsted allowed him to take about 15 jobs with him; one of these clients was William Gwinn Mather. Mather heartily supported Manning and would employ him on sixty design and planning projects throughout their lives including the design of his home near Cleveland, Ohio (Karson, 1997). Now completely in charge, Manning was able to pursue designs of styles that interested him. This was largely an 18th-century English romantic style, adapted to the American landscape. The product of which was a sprawling, natural design, littered with native plants (Stan Hywet Hall and Gardens 2007). Charles Gillette served as an apprentice in his office in 1909-1911.\nIn 1919, Manning’s talents took him to Birmingham, Alabama, where he worked on a new design for the city. He recommended a radical resource-based plan which included “multiple neighborhood-based centers determined by available resources” (Karson, 2001). He also makes note of the importance of parks throughout the city stating that “the cities that are best designed have about one-eighth of their area in parks and about one acre to 75 people” (Manning, 1919). This approach was in direct contrast to the then popular City Beautiful movement which emphasized monumental civic centers and Beaux Arts architecture style public buildings (Karson, 2001). The architectural design of the Chicago Columbian Exposition was based in the City Beautiful movement, but now, on his own, Manning decided on a different course following his own landscape theories which were based on the natural available resources. This idea was the basis for his creation of the \"wild garden\" which he applied to many of his landscape designs. \n\nDuring his career, Manning worked on more than 1700 projects including a number of park designs, private estates, city planning, college campuses, subdivisions, golf courses, and government and community projects. Manning’s brother joined him as a business partner between 1901 and 1904. Bryant Fleming (1877-1946) worked for him during this period. Together they created a revolutionary park design for Harrisburg, Pennsylvania utilizing a new drainage and sanitation system. During the Depression years Manning’s practice did not do well and by the 1930s he was receiving very few commissions. In 1938, Manning died of a heart attack at the age of seventy-eight (Karson, 2001). His remaining papers are collected at the University of Massachusetts Lowell and Iowa State University. A state forest located in Billerica, Massachusetts, on land he donated, is named for him.\n\nEarly on in his career, Manning went against the then popular formalistic approach to landscape design and emphasized a more naturalistic approach of native plants and naturalistic groupings. The formal gardens of the late nineteenth century relied heavily on a more symmetrical design and an extensive use of ornament. Manning describes his wild gardening as “that form of floriculture which is concerned with planting in a nature-like manner colonies of hardy plants that require a minimum of care” (Karson, 2001). In his early, unpublished essay “The Nature Garden,” Manning writes:\n\nThis idea of selective thinning and pruning was at the core of Manning’s landscape theory. He celebrated the smallest details in the landscape, emphasizing lichens and fungi in his design, which was contrary to his counterparts and unusual for this time in landscape design.\n\nIn 1907, William Gwinn Mather, owner of Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Company, asked Manning, along with Charles A. Platt to design his property outside of Cleveland, Ohio. Manning and Platt were hired to work together, but often with conflicting landscape designs for the same property. Platt, a more formalist designer, emphasized paths, gates and other architectural elements while Manning based his designs on the \"wild garden\" approach (Karson, 1995). Manning inventoried the site’s pre-existing plants, and with selective pruning and thinning, created graceful planting groupings and spaces. Manning also shipped plants in from neighboring states including wildflowers from Michigan and rhododendrons from North Carolina (Karson, 2004). In 1912, Mather bought another large piece of property adjacent to the Cleveland location, at which Manning designed another \"wild garden\".\n\nPrivately held since 2007, Gwinn is not open to the public. \n\nIn 1899, three years after leaving the firm of Olmsted Sr., Manning wrote Eliot, seeking help in creating a professional organization for landscape architects. Eliot, however, was more interested in creating a public association. The final product of this idea would become the American Civic Association. After this was founded, Manning returned to his desire to create a professional organization. With the help of the Olmsted Brothers, 11 charter members of the American Society of Landscape Architects met for the first time in 1899 in New York City. In 1914, Manning would serve as president (Karson 2000).\n\nIn addition to being an influential landscape architect, Manning was also an avid writer and proponent of the conservation of America’s wilderness. As such, Manning worked on a large mapping project (1915-1916) and wrote a “National Plan” which advocated for the conservation of American’s lands.\n\nManning was responsible for the restoration of his family's early colonial homestead, the Manning Manse in Billerica, Massachusetts. In the 1890s, the property was in decline, and Manning led a carefully documented rehabilition of the c. 1696 homestead. He occupied it as a summer home until his death. He also purchased large tracts of land surrounding the homestead, on which he maintained an office for a time. Much of this land is now for the core of Warren H. Manning State Forest.\n\nResidential\n\nPark systems\n\nCommunities\n\nBoulevards\n\n\n"}
