{"id": "51635031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51635031", "title": "3-Nitrooxypropanol", "text": "3-Nitrooxypropanol\n\n3-Nitrooxypropanol, abbreviated 3NOP, is an organic compound with the formula HOCHCHCHONO. It is the mononitrate ester of 1,3-propanediol. The compound is an inhibitor of the enzyme methyl coenzyme M reductase (MCR). MCR catalyzes the final step in methanogenesis. When it is fed to ruminants, their methane production is diminished and they gain weight. Ruminants are some of the greatest contributors of methane, a significant greenhouse gas.\n"}
{"id": "59209195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59209195", "title": "Almondbury Community School bullying incident", "text": "Almondbury Community School bullying incident\n\nA sixteen year old youth was shown on video assaulting a fifteen year old Syrian refugee boy in a playground attack in West Yorkshire. The attack took place at Almondbury Community School; the headmaster condemned the attack once it had received nationwide media attention. \n\nThe incident was condemned by Prime Minister Theresa May.\n\nThe clip shows the victim with his arm in a cast being dragged to the floor by his neck as his attacker says \"I'll drown you\" on a school playing field, while forcing water from a bottle into the victim's mouth, simulating waterboarding. The video was filmed in a lunch break. The clips shows the victim walking away, without reacting, as the attacker and others can be heard continuing to verbally abuse him. The victim, a Syrian refugee, had previously suffered a broken wrist; this had also been investigated by the police, who had interviewed three youths but took no further action. \n\nSubsequently, a separate video emerged of a girl – reportedly the younger sister of the Syrian refugee – also being assaulted in the school playground. Previously a girl forcibly removed the girl's hijab; the attacker was excluded from the school over the incident. The girl was subjected to so much playground abuse and racist attack, she attempted suicide by cutting her wrists between classes, according to the family's lawyer.\n\nDirector of Advocacy at the Refugee Council, said: \"The idea that someone escapes war and brutality, only to be met with violence here, is truly awful.\"\n\nHuddersfield MP, Barry Sheerman, said that the 15-year-old victim came to his office in late October asking for help: “The young man himself turned up at my office and told me he was being bullied and appealed for my help\". Sheerman reported the allegations to council leader at Kirklees, and the Head of Children’s Services. \n\nAlmondbury's Conservative Councillor, Bernard McGuin, revealed Jamal wrote to authorities in a desperate plea for help three weeks before the filmed attack. In the email entitled “complaint: please help me”, the youngster said he had been subjected to bullying since he joined the school two years ago in year 9 and listed “incidents and allegations” at the school.\n\nA 16-year-old boy has been interviewed by West Yorkshire Police , and reported for summons for an offense of assault. The 16-year-old suspect had shared numerous posts from far-right social media accounts. The suspect’s mother had previously been prosecuted over racist behaviour.The mother's case reached court in November 2017, where she ­admitted racially ­aggravated ­threatening behaviour and was fined.\n\nOn 27th Nov 2018, protesters took part in a peaceful demonstration outside the school organised by the\" 'Huddersfield Pakistani Community Alliance\"'. The Victim, identified as Jamal, told the Guardian that he and his sister did not wish to return to school and a solicitor representing the family indicated they were considering moving away from the area. \n\nJamal asked people not to attack his alleged bully and was alarmed by the violent threats being made online towards the alleged attacker.\n\nThe school is to face an emergency inspection by Ofsted. Amanda Spielman, Chief Inspector of Schools, said she was “appalled” by the video and had received complaints from people dismayed by the video.\n\nTommy Robinson incorrectly claimed the Syrian refugee had previously attacked two schoolgirls. However, just hours after spreading the claims during two Facebook live broadcasts, Robinson admitted to his followers that he had helped spread fake news. Explaining he had been duped: “I have been completely had, how embarrassing man\".\n\nSyrian refugee family’s lawyers, \"Farooq Bajwa & Co\", issued a letter to Robinson stating \"We wish to place you on notice that our client intends to pursue legal action against you in respect of these contents of these publications and you will shortly be receiving formal pre-action correspondence in this respect\". CNN International reported Robinson had deleted the videos and admitted to posting a fake photograph purporting to show violence by a Muslim gang. One of the photos used by Robinson as supposed proof of violence at the school was stolen from a 2017 news article on a teenage cancer patient from Surrey.\n\nIn Nov 2018, a third video emerged which showed an assault of a young girl that was filmed by pupils in what appears to be a pre-arranged fight. It shows youngsters at the school gathered round on the drive by the playing fields encouraging two girls to fight.\n"}
{"id": "1524906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524906", "title": "Animal bite", "text": "Animal bite\n\nAn animal bite is a wound, usually a puncture or laceration, caused by the teeth. An animal bite usually results in a break in the skin but also includes contusions from the excessive pressure on body tissue from the bite. The contusions can occur without a break in the skin. Bites can be provoked or unprovoked. Other bite attacks may be apparently unprovoked. Biting is a physical action not only describing an attack but it is a normal response in an animal as it eats, carries objects, softens and prepares food for its young, removes ectoparasites from its body surface, removes plant seeds attached to its fur or hair, scratching itself, and grooming other animals. Animal bites often result in serious infections and mortality. Animal bites not only include injuries from the teeth of reptiles, mammals, but fish, and amphibians. Arthropods can also bite and leave injuries.\n\nBite wounds can cause a number of signs and symptoms\n\nBites are usually classified by the type of animal causing the wound.\nMany different animals are known to bite humans.\n\n\nInvoluntary biting injuries due to closed-fist injuries from fists striking teeth (referred to as reverse bite injuries) are a common consequence of fist fights. These have been termed \"fight bites\". Injuries in which the knuckle joints or tendons of the hand are bitten into tend to be the most serious.\n\nTeething infants are known to bite objects to relieve pressure on their growing teeth, and may inadvertently bite people's hands or arms while doing so. Young children may also bite people out of anger or misbehaviour, although this is usually corrected early in the child's life.\n\nA reverse bite injury (also called a clenched fist injury, closed fist injury, or fight bite) results when, a person punches another person in the face, and the skin (and sometimes tendons) of their knuckles are cut against the teeth of the person they are punching. The proximity of the wound is often located over the metacarpophalangeal joint resulting in tendon injury.\n\nThe medical treatment of this injury is similar to those of a human bite, but may also involve damage of the underlying tendons.\n\nThese injuries should be managed as other human bites: wound irrigation and antibiotics are essential as human saliva can contain a number of bacteria. The nature of these injuries is such that even if the injury is optimally managed, poor outcomes may still occur.\n\nThe bites of arthropods have some of the most serious health consequences known. Mosquito bites transmit serious disease and result in millions of deaths and illnesses in the world. Ticks also transmit many diseases such as Lyme disease.\n\n\nOne of the first consequences of a bite is the trauma inflicted upon tissue. Some animals involved in inflicting bites are also receiving them during the confrontation. Trauma includes scratching of the skin surface, tooth loss, puncture wounds, superficial and deep lacerations, amputations, and the ripping off of skin and hair. If major blood vessels are damaged, severe blood loss can occur.\n\nPathogen organisms can be introduced into the bite. Some of the pathogens can originate from the mouth of the 'biter', the substrate onto which the injured person or animal can fall or from the naturally occurring microorganisms that are present on the skin or hair of the animal. The advent of antibiotics improved the outcome of bite wound infections.\n\nAnimal bites where skin has been penetrated, most commonly dogs and bats, transmit rabies to humans. Rabies from other animals is rare. If the animal is caught alive or dead with its head preserved, the head can be analyzed to detect the disease. Signs of rabies include foaming at the mouth, growling, self-mutilation, jerky behavior, red eyes, and hydrophobia.\n\nIf the animal cannot be captured, preventative rabies treatment is recommended in many places. Several countries are known not to have native rabies, see the Wikipedia page for prevalence of rabies.\n\nThe first step in treatment includes washing the bite wound. If there is a low risk of infection the wound may be sutured. Debridement and drainage bite wounds was practiced in the pre-antibiotic era, but still had a high infection rate.\n\nAntibiotics to prevent infection are recommended for dog and cat bites of the hand, and human bites if they are more than superficial. They are also recommended in those who have poor immune function. Evidence for antibiotics to prevent infection in bites in other areas is not clear.\n\nThe first choice is amoxicillin with clavulanic acid, and if the person is penicillin-allergic, doxycycline and metronidazole. The antistaphylococcal penicillins (e.g., cloxacillin, nafcillin, flucloxacillin) and the macrolides (e.g., erythromycin, clarithromycin) are not used for empirical therapy, because they do not cover \"Pasteurella\" species.\n\nRabies prevention is generally available in North America and the Northern European states.\n\nTetanus toxoid treatment is recommended in those whose vaccinations are not up to date and have a bite that punctures the skin. Tetanus immune globulin is indicated in people with more than 10 years since prior vaccination. Tetanus boosters (Td) should be given every ten years.\n\nTT = tetanus toxoid; TIG: tetanus immune globulin\n\nAntihistamines are effective treatment for the symptoms from bites. Many diseases such as malaria and dengue are transmitted by mosquitoes.\n\nHuman bites are the third most frequent type of bite after dog and cat bites. Dog bites are commonplace, with children the most commonly bitten and the face the most common target. About 4.7 million dog bites are reported annually in the United States. The US estimated annual count of animal bites is 250,000 human bites, 1 to 2 million dog bites, 400,000 cat bites, and 45,000 bites from snakes. Bites from skunks, horses, squirrels, rats, rabbits, pigs, and monkeys may be up to 1 percent of bite injuries. Pet ferrets attacks that were unprovoked have caused serious facial injuries. Non-domesticated animals though assumed to be more common especially as a cause of rabies infection, make up less than one percent of reported bite wounds. When a person is bitten, it is more likely to occur on the right arm, most likely due to defensive reactions when the person uses their dominant arm. Estimates are that three quarters of bites are located on the arms or legs of humans. Bites to the face of humans constitute only 10 percent of the total. Two thirds of bite injuries in humans are suffered by children aged ten and younger.\n\nUp to three fourths of dog bites happen to those younger than 20 years-old. In the United States, the costs associated with dog bites are estimated to be more than $1 billion annually. The age groups that suffer most from dog bites are children 5 to 9 years-old. Often, bites go unreported and no medical treatment given - these bites go unreported. As many as one percent of pediatric emergency room visits are for treatment for animal bites. This is more frequent during the summer months. Up to five percent of children receiving emergency care for dog bites are then admitted to the hospital. Bites typically occur in the late afternoon and early evening. Girls are bitten more frequently by cats than they are by dogs. Boys are bitten by dogs two times more often than girls are bitten by dogs.\n\nThe bites of humans are recorded during the biblical area. Reports of secondary infection occurring after a human bite in children have been noted in the United States since at least 1910. Morbidity and mortality rates improved with the use of antibiotics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41099486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41099486", "title": "Argument-deduction-proof distinctions", "text": "Argument-deduction-proof distinctions\n\nArgument-deduction-proof distinctions originated with logic itself. Naturally, the terminology evolved. \nAn argument, more fully a premise-conclusion argument, is a two-part system composed of premises and conclusion. An argument is \"valid\" if and only if its conclusion is a consequence of its premises. Every premise set has infinitely many consequences each giving rise to a valid argument. Some consequences are obviously so but most are not: most are hidden consequences. Most valid arguments are not yet known to be valid. To determine validity in non-obvious cases deductive reasoning is required. There is no deductive reasoning in an argument \"per se\"; such must come from the outside. \n\nEvery argument's conclusion is a premise of other arguments. The word \"constituent\" may be used for either a premise or conclusion.In the context of this article and in most classical contexts, all candidates for consideration as argument constituents fall under the category of truth-bearer: propositions, statements, sentences, judgments, etc.\n\nA deduction is a three-part system composed of premises, a conclusion, and chain of intermediates — steps of reasoning showing that its conclusion is a consequence of its premises. The reasoning in a deduction is by definition cogent. Such reasoning itself, or the chain of intermediates representing it, has also been called an argument, more fully a deductive argument. In many cases, an argument can be known to be valid by means of a deduction of its conclusion from its premises but non-deductive methods such as Venn diagrams and other graphic procedures have been proposed.\n\nA proof is a deduction whose premises are known truths. A proof of the Pythagorean theorem is a deduction that might use several premises — axioms, postulates, and definitions — and contain dozens of intermediate steps. As Alfred Tarski famously emphasized in accord with Aristotle, truths can be known by proof but proofs presuppose truths not known by proof.\nPremise-conclusion arguments do not require or produce either knowledge of validity or knowledge of truth. Premise sets may be chosen arbitrarily and conclusions may be chosen arbitrarily. \nDeductions require knowing how to reason but they do not require knowledge of truth of their premises. Deductions produce knowledge of the validity of arguments but ordinarily they do not produce knowledge of the truth of their conclusions.\nProofs require knowledge of the truth of their premises, they require knowledge of deductive reasoning, and they produce knowledge of their conclusions.\nModern logicians disagree concerning the nature of argument constituents.Quine devotes the first chapter of \"Philosophy of Logic\" to this issue. Historians have not even been able to agree on what Aristotle took as constituents.\nArgument-deduction-proof distinctions are inseparable from what have been called the \"consequence-deducibility\" distinction and the \"truth-and-consequence conception of proof\". Variations among argument-deduction-proof distinctions are not all terminological.\n\nLogician Alonzo Church never used the word \"argument\" in the above sense and had no synonym. Moreover, Church never explained that deduction is the process of producing knowledge of consequence and it never used the common noun \"deduction\" for an application of the deduction process. His primary focus in discussing proof was “conviction” produced by generation of chains of logical truths—not the much more widely applicable and more familiar general process of demonstration as found in pre-Aristotelian geometry and discussed by Aristotle. He did discuss deductions in the above sense but not by that name: he called them awkwardly “proofs from premises” — an expression he coined for the purpose.\n\nThe absence of argument-deduction-proof distinctions is entirely consonant with Church's avowed Platonistic logicism. Following Dummett's insightful remarks about Frege, which — \"mutatis mutandis\" — apply even more to Church, it might be possible to explain the today-surprising absence.\n"}
{"id": "34995804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34995804", "title": "Atiyah–Jones conjecture", "text": "Atiyah–Jones conjecture\n\nIn mathematics, the Atiyah–Jones conjecture is a conjecture about the homology of the moduli space of instantons over a sphere. It was introduced by and proved by .\n\n"}
{"id": "19874619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19874619", "title": "Carlos Ginzburg", "text": "Carlos Ginzburg\n\nCarlos Ginzburg is a conceptual artist and theoretician born in 1946 in La Plata, Argentina. He studied philosophy and social theory.\n\nGermano Celant, when writing about Arte Povera, invited Ginzburg by letter to join his movement.\n\nAs a conceptual artist interested in digital art, fractals chaos and fractal art, Ginzburg created what he calls \"homo fractalus\" – a concept about microcosm totality.\n\nHe has worked with the art critic Pierre Restany (with whom he developed the concept of \"Political Ecology\") and with Severo Sarduy who put him near Hokusai in \"Barroco\", one of the reference's books to \"Le Pli\" of Gilles Deleuze.\n\nHe lives in Paris and works, since 2005, with the art criticism and French artist KolbaSha/Tschann on chaos's destruction and advent paradise.\n\nPersonal exhibition\n\n\nCollectival exhibition\n\n\n\n\nPascale LE THOREL-DAVIOT\n\n\nGillo Dorfles\n\n\nPierre Restany\n\n\nSevero Sarduy\n\n\nSevero Sarduy et Klaus Ottman\n\n\nTim Jacobs\n\n\nJean-Claude Chirollet (philosophe, esthéticien, spécialiste de l'art fractaliste, Université de Strasbourg):\n\nla Forme\", éd. L'Harmattan, Paris, p. 283-295\néd. du Treize Mars, Paris, septembre 1998, p. 112-114\nUniversité du Québec, p. 103-132.\n\nPaul Ardenne\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1263046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263046", "title": "Clipping path", "text": "Clipping path\n\nA clipping path (or \"deep etch\") is a closed vector path, or shape, used to cut out a 2D image in image editing software. Anything inside the path will be included after the clipping path is applied; anything outside the path will be omitted from the output. Applying the clipping path results in a hard (aliased) or soft (anti-aliased) edge, depending on the image editor's capabilities\n\nBy convention, the inside of the path is defined by its direction. Reversing the direction of a path reverses what is considered inside or outside. An \"inclusive path\" is one where what is visually \"inside\" the path corresponds to what will be preserved; an \"exclusive path\", of opposite direction, contains what is visually \"outside\" the path. By convention, a clockwise path that is non-self-intersecting is considered inclusive.\n\nA compound path results from the combination of multiple paths (inclusive and exclusive) and the Boolean operations that ultimately determine what the combined path contains. For instance, an inclusive path which contains a smaller exclusive path results in a shape with a \"hole\" (defined by the exclusive path).\n\nOne common use of a clipping path is to cull objects that do not need to be rendered because they are outside the user's viewport or obscured by display elements (such as a HUD).\n\nClipping planes are used in 3D computer graphics in order to prevent the renderer from calculating surfaces at an extreme distance from the viewer. The plane is perpendicular to the camera, a set distance away (the \"threshold\"), and occupies the entire viewport. Used in real-time rendering, clipping planes can help preserve processing for objects within clear sight.\n\nThe use of clipping planes can result in a detraction from the realism of a scene, as the viewer may notice that everything at the threshold is not rendered correctly or seems to (dis)appear spontaneously. The addition of \"fog\"—a variably transparent region of color or texture just before the clipping plane—can help soften the transition between what should be in plain sight and opaque, and what should be beyond notice and fully transparent, and therefore does not need to be rendered.\n\nClipping path services are professional offerings provided by companies for extracting objects or people from still imagery, and typically includes other photo editing and manipulation services. Addressees of such services are primarily photography and graphic design studios, advertising agencies, web designers, as well as lithographers and printing companies. Clipping path service companies commonly reside in developing countries such as Bangladesh, Philippine, India, Pakistan and Nepal, which can provide their services at comparatively low cost to developed countries, fostering outsourcing of such activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "49474274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49474274", "title": "Co-benefits of climate change mitigation", "text": "Co-benefits of climate change mitigation\n\nCo-benefits of climate change mitigation as defined in the 4th Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are the positive benefits related to the reduction of greenhouse gases. Examples of such climate mitigation policies include improved energy efficiency of plants, renewable energy uptake and fuel switching which might enable a range of co-benefits such as air-pollution impacts, technological innovation, energy-supply security through increased energy diversity, reduced fuel cost and employment possibilities. \n\nCo-benefits of GHG mitigation can be an important decision criteria in analyses carried out by policy-makers, but they are often neglected, and often the co-benefits are not quantified, monetised or even identified by businesses and decision-makers. Appropriate consideration of co-benefits can greatly influence policy decisions concerning the timing and level of mitigation action, and there can be significant advantages to the national economy and technical innovation.\n\nDifferent research groups currently examine the impacts of co-benefits of climate change mitigation. One of these projects is the COBENEFITS project of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies in Potsdam, Germany. The COBENEFITS project is part of the International Climate Initiative (IKI). The Federal Ministry of the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU) supports this initiative on the basis of a decision adopted by the German Bundestag. The project is conducted in close collaboration with government ministries, agencies, research institutions, and think tanks as political partners and knowledge partners in the target countries. These four target countries are India, South Africa, Turkey, and Vietnam. The project team, thereby, cooperates with national authorities and knowledge partners to develop key insights that enable them to mobilise these co-benefits in their countries and accelerate domestic processes aimed at achieving their international climate protection commitments.\n\n"}
{"id": "5564044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5564044", "title": "Comminatory", "text": "Comminatory\n\nIn law, a comminatory is a clause inserted into a law, edict, patent, etc., describing a punishment that is to be imposed on delinquents, which, however, is not in practice executed with the rigor that is conveyed in the description, or not even executed at all.\n\nThus, in some countries, when an exile is enjoined not to return on pain of death, it is deemed a comminatory penalty, since, if he did return, it is not strictly executed, but instead the same threat is laid on him again, which is more than comminatory.\n\n"}
{"id": "35348527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35348527", "title": "Dandelion Community", "text": "Dandelion Community\n\nDandelion was a rural intentional community near Enterprise, Ontario, active in the 1970s, and disbanded around 1990. It was a member of the Federation of Egalitarian Communities, meeting all requirements for full membership.\n\nDandelion was the birthplace of singer/songwriter Devon Sproule.\n"}
{"id": "10019306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10019306", "title": "Digital graffiti", "text": "Digital graffiti\n\nDigital graffiti is the act of creating graffiti art using a computer vision system. Various groups and companies have pioneered digital graffiti since technology advances made it possible. Most notably is the Graffiti Research Lab based in the US with their L.A.S.E.R. Tag system.\n\nInspired by the New York laser graffiti movement, in 2008 the first commercially available digital graffiti wall was produced by Luma, named the YrWall. A specially adapted spray can emits IR light instead of paint, which is then tracked by a computer vision system to recreate the \"sprayed\" image onto the wall using a projector.\n\nAny system that allows art to be created on a large scale in a similar manner to more traditional graffiti falls under the heading digital graffiti.\n\nCisco Systems has released a mobile application called [Digital Graffiti] patented by Cisco Systems, Inc. to allow people to place messages of varying size, color, length of time visible, and viewing distance (say visible from 20 feet away) on a physical location, say a building, an office, a cubicle, or a specific location using their augmented reality mobile application. This message alerts other visitors approaching the message coordinates by playing the Cisco chime and the mobile user's country origin filter when the app was installed. It is like a virtual yellow stickie note, that can be delivered to an individual when they arrive at a message location. Digital Graffiti leverages the Cisco MSE location server (which tracks users mobile devices and provides x, y coordinates of the mobile devices over WiFi).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15510119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15510119", "title": "Dirty, dangerous and demeaning", "text": "Dirty, dangerous and demeaning\n\n\"Dirty, dangerous and demeaning\" (often \"dirty, dangerous and demanding\" or \"dirty, dangerous and difficult\"), also known as the 3Ds, is an American neologism derived from the Asian concept, and refers to certain kinds of labor often performed by unionized blue-collar workers.\n\nThe term originated from the Japanese expression 3K: \"kitanai\", \"kiken\", \"kitsui\" (respectively 汚い \"dirty\", 危険 \"dangerous\", きつい \"demanding\"), and has subsequently gained widespread use, particularly regarding labor done by migrant workers and burakumin.\n\nAny task fitting the criteria of 3Ds job can qualify, regardless of industry. These jobs can bring higher wages due to a shortage of willing qualified individuals and in many world regions are filled by migrant workers looking for higher wages.\n\nTraditionally, workers in 3D professions are well paid, due to the undesirability of the work, and the resulting need to pay higher wages to attract workers. This has allowed the uneducated and unskilled to earn a living wage by foregoing comfort, personal safety and social status. This concept proves itself in the economic theory of quantity supplied and quantity demanded (see Quantity adjustment), the wages paid to these workers is higher due to the undesirable nature of their professions.\n\nHowever, in regions where certain classes of workers are restricted to this type of work or there are contributing regional conditions - for example, high unemployment, adjacent to regions with high poverty, or the recipient of driven labor migration - there will be workers willing to accept lower than equilibrium wages and then these jobs are not well paid. Large scale international labor migration, from developing to developed countries since the late 19th century and early 20th century has provided a pool of migrants willing to undertake employment for lower wages than native residents. Higher wages in developed countries are a strong 'pull' factor in international migration, and thus while a migrant worker is willing to accept a comparatively low-wage for a 3D job in a developed country it may mean a significant increase in wages compared to their originating country.\n\nProminent current examples of such migration include Filipino entertainment workers who migrate to Japan, and of Indians and Pakistanis going to the Middle East to work in the construction industry. In the United States, 3D occupations once filled by Irish and German immigrants, are today held by many Latin Americans. The highest paying work available to these often unskilled and uneducated (or their foreign certificates of skills and education are not recognized) immigrants is work that is of lower social status, and has a higher risk of injury. As immigrants make up an increasing share of the labor market in countries such as the United States it will become increasingly important for employers to find ways of effectively promoting occupational safety and health among immigrant workers.\n\nThese workers are susceptible to exploitation, and without representation can have a difficult time maintaining fair living wages. Since the beginning of the labor movement, immigrant workers in 3D jobs have formed the backbone of many labor unions.\n\nWhen there are concentrations of low paid workers in 3D occupations, this is artificially created when there are either 'pull' mechanisms that create migrant worker flows or through mechanisms that create subclasses of indigenous populations, through a selective application or an absence of labor protections. Undocumented immigration status is one such mechanism which reinforces the social vulnerability of immigrant workers and can increase their risk for occupational injury and limit their access to institutional resources that protect worker health. In the worst case the concentration is exploitation and can become slavery in its various forms. Historically, the 3D occupations have at times been widely satisfied through forced employment due to the lack of available applicants, a supply of exploitable labor, and either legalization of forced employment or a disregard for the labor laws.\n\nPeople who find themselves working a 3D occupation will be well paid if they have the protection of the law, poorly paid if they have poor protection of the law or unfair laws, and unpaid if they exist under no protection of the law, no law, or in a society with legal slavery.\n\nRegardless of the hazards, engaging in high risk, low status work can be a way to escape poverty - captured by a line in the Irish folk song Finnegan's Wake, \"to rise in the world he carried a hod.\"\n\nAs the name indicates, dirty, dangerous and demeaning work can impose severe physical and mental costs on workers. There is often a risk of early retirement due to injury, general joint depletion or mental fatigue. After witnessing the constant physical and mental injury to coworkers or even death, the stress can cause mental fatigue and post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13588638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13588638", "title": "Doctrine of necessity", "text": "Doctrine of necessity\n\nThe doctrine of necessity is the basis on which extra-legal actions by state actors, which are designed to restore order, are found to be constitutional. The maxim on which the doctrine is based originated in the writings of the medieval jurist Henry de Bracton, and similar justifications for this kind of extra-legal action have been advanced by more recent legal authorities, including William Blackstone.\n\nIn modern times, the doctrine was first used in a controversial 1954 judgment in which Pakistani Chief Justice Muhammad Munir validated the extra-constitutional use of emergency powers by Governor General, Ghulam Mohammad. In his judgment, the Chief Justice cited Bracton's maxim, 'that which is otherwise not lawful is made lawful by necessity', thereby providing the label that would come to be attached to the judgment and the doctrine that it was establishing.\n\nThe doctrine of necessity has since been applied in a number of Commonwealth countries, and in 2010 was invoked to justify extra-legal actions in Nigeria.\n\nOn 24 October 1954 the Governor-General of Pakistan, Ghulam Mohammad, dissolved the Constituent Assembly and appointed a new Council of Ministers on the grounds that the existing one no longer represented the people of Pakistan. Stanley de Smith argues that the real reason for the dissolution was because Mohammad objected to the constitution which the Assembly was about to adopt. The President of the Constituent Assembly, Maulvi Tamizuddin, appealed to the Chief Court of Sind at Karachi to restrain the new Council of Ministers from implementing the dissolution and to determine the validity of the appointment of the new Council under Section 223-A of the constitution.\n\nIn response, members of the new Council of Ministers appealed to the court saying that it had no jurisdiction to approve the request of the President to overturn the dissolution and appointments. They argued that Section 223-A of the constitution had never been validly enacted into the Constitution because it was never approved of by the Governor-General, and therefore anything submitted under it was invalid. The Chief Court of Sind ruled in favour of President Tamizuddin and held that the Governor-General's approval was not needed when the Constituent Assembly was acting only as a Constituent Assembly and not as the Federal Legislature. The Federation of Pakistan and the new Council of Ministers then appealed to the court, the appeal was heard in March 1955 (\"Federation of Pakistan v Maulvi Tamizuddin Khan\").\n\nIn the appeal hearing under Chief Justice Muhammad Munir, the court decided that the Constituent Assembly functioned as the 'Legislature of the Domain' and that the Governor-General's assent was necessary for all legislation to become law. Therefore, the Chief Court of Sind had no jurisdiction to overturn the Governor General's dissolution and it was held as valid.\n\nHowever, the ground of which the court found in favour of the Federation of Pakistan called into question the validity of all legislation passed by the Assembly, not to mention the unconstitutionality of the Assembly itself since 1950. To solve this problem, the Governor-General invoked Emergency Powers to retrospectively validate the Acts of the Constituent Assembly. An appeal was filed against the Governor-General for invoking emergency powers and the Chief Justice had to determine the constitutionality of invoking the Emergency Powers and whether the Governor-General could give his assent to legislation retroactively.\n\nThe Court held that in this case the Governor-General could not invoke emergency powers because in doing so he validated certain laws that had been invalid because he had not assented to them previously. Justice Munir also ruled that constitutional legislation could not be validated by the Governor General but had to be approved by the Legislature. The lack of a Constituent Assembly did not transfer the Legislature's powers over to the Governor-General.\n\nThe Court was referred to for an opinion. On 16 May 1955 it ruled:\n\n\nIn his verdict, Munir declared it was necessary to go beyond the constitution to what he claimed was the Common Law, to general legal maxims, and to English historical precedent. He relied on Bracton's maxim, 'that which is otherwise not lawful is made lawful by necessity', and the Roman law maxim urged by Ivor Jennings, 'the well-being of the people is the supreme law'.\n\nIn a 1985 judgment, the Chief Justice of the High Court of Grenada invoked the doctrine of necessity to validate the legal existence of a court then trying for murder the persons who had conducted a coup against former leader Maurice Bishop. The court had been established under an unconstitutional \"People's Law\" following the overthrow of the country's constitution, which had subsequently been restored. The defendants argued that the court before which they were being tried had no legal existence under the restored constitution, and they were therefore being deprived of their constitutional right to a trial before a \"Court established by law\". The High Court acknowledged that the lower court \"had come into existence in an unconstitutional manner\", but \"the doctrine of necessity validated its acts.\" On this basis, the murder trials were allowed to proceed.\n\nA related (although non-judicial) use of the doctrine took place when, on 9 February 2010, the Nigerian National Assembly passed a resolution making Vice President Goodluck Jonathan the Acting President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. Both chambers of the Assembly passed the resolution after President Umaru Yar'Adua, who for 78 days had been in Saudi Arabia receiving medical treatment, was unable to formally empower the vice president to exercise full powers as acting president, as provided for in Section 145 of the country's constitution. No provision of the Nigerian constitution empowering the National Assembly to pass any such resolution, causing Senate President David Mark to assert that the Senate had been guided by the \"doctrine of necessity\" in arriving at its decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "2616441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2616441", "title": "Downrange", "text": "Downrange\n\nDownrange is the horizontal distance traveled by a spacecraft, or the spacecraft's horizontal distance from the launch site. More often, it is used as an adverb or adjective specifying the direction of that travel being measured in a horizontal direction.\n\nIn military slang, \"downrange\" is a term for being deployed overseas, usually in a war zone. It is also the name of a comic strip published in the newspaper Stars and Stripes. It can also refer to the direction of fire: away from the source and in the direction of the target.\n"}
{"id": "9969189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9969189", "title": "Edit conflict", "text": "Edit conflict\n\nAn edit conflict is a computer problem that may occur when multiple editors edit the same file during a short time period. The problem is encountered on wikis, distributed data systems, and revision control. To save the file while minimizing edits, the conflict must be resolved.\n\nAn edit conflict is a computer problem that may occur when multiple editors edit the same file during a short time period. The conflict occurs when an editor gets a copy of a shared document file, changes the copy, and attempts to save the changes to the original file, which has been altered another editor after the copy was obtained. To save the original file, the edit conflict must be resolved.\n\nThe simplest way to resolve an edit conflict is to ignore intervening edits and overwrite the current file. This may lead to a substantial loss of information, and alternative methods are often employed to resolve or prevent conflicts.\n\nThe problem is encountered on wikis, distributed data systems (e.g., Google Sites), and revision control systems not using file locking. The problem is more likely to occur when working on heavily edited articles on Wikipedia, such as those about a current event or a person suddenly in the news, as well as other high-traffic pages. If a significant amount of new text is involved, the editor who receives an \"edit conflict\" error message can cut and paste the new text into a word processor or similar program for further editing, or can paste that text directly into a newer version of the target document. Simple copyediting can be done directly on the newer version, and then saved.\n\n"}
{"id": "22433196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22433196", "title": "Evolution of emotion", "text": "Evolution of emotion\n\nThe study of the evolution of emotions dates back to the 19th century. Evolution and natural selection has been applied to the study of human communication, mainly by Charles Darwin in his 1872 work, \"The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals\". Darwin researched the expression of emotions in an effort to support his theory of evolution. He proposed that much like other traits found in animals, emotions also evolved and were adapted over time. His work looked at not only facial expressions in animals and specifically humans, but attempted to point out parallels between behaviors in humans and other animals.\n\nAccording to modern evolutionary theory, different emotions evolved at different times. Primal emotions, such as fear, are associated with ancient parts of the brain and presumably evolved among our premammal ancestors. Filial emotions, such as a human mother's love for her offspring, seem to have evolved among early mammals. Social emotions, such as guilt and pride, evolved among social primates. Sometimes, a more recently evolved part of the brain moderates an older part of the brain, such as when the cortex moderates the amygdala's fear response. Evolutionary psychologists consider human emotions to be best adapted to the life our ancestors led in nomadic foraging bands.\n\nDarwin's original plan was to include his findings about expression of emotions in a chapter of his work, \"The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex\" (Darwin, 1871) but found that he had enough material for a whole book. It was based on observations, both those around him and of people in many parts of the world. One important observation he made was that even in individuals who were born blind, body and facial expressions displayed are similar to those of anyone else. The ideas found in his book on universality of emotions were intended to go against Sir Charles Bell's 1844 claim that human facial muscles were created to give them the unique ability to express emotions. The main purpose of Darwin's work was to support the theory of evolution by demonstrating that emotions in humans and other animals are similar. Most of the similarities he found were between species closely related, but he found some similarities between distantly related species as well. He proposed the idea that emotional states are adaptive, and therefore only those able to express certain emotions passed on their characteristics.\n\nIn the 1872 work, Darwin proposed three principles. The first of the three is the \"principle of serviceable habits,\" which he defined as useful habits reinforced previously, and then inherited by offspring. He used as an example contracting of eyebrows (furrowing the brow), which he noted is serviceable to prevent too much light from entering the eyes. He also said that the raising of eyebrows serves to increase the field of vision. He cited examples of people attempting to remember something and raising their brows, as though they could \"see\" what they were trying to remember.\n\nThe second of the principles is that of antithesis. While some habits are serviceable, Darwin proposed that some actions or habits are carried out merely because they are opposite in nature to a serviceable habit, but are not serviceable themselves. Shrugging of the shoulders is an example Darwin used of antithesis, because it has no service. Shoulder shrugging is a passive expression, and very opposite of a confident or aggressive expression.\n\nThe third of the principles is expressive habits, or nervous discharge from the nervous system. This principle proposes that some habits are performed because of a build-up to the nervous system, which causes a discharge of the excitement. Examples include foot and finger tapping, as well as vocal expressions and expressions of anger. Darwin noted that many animals rarely make noises, even when in pain, but under extreme circumstances they vocalize in response to pain and fear.\n\nPaul Ekman is most noted in this field for conducting research involving facial expressions of emotions. His work provided data to back up Darwin's ideas about universality of facial expressions, even across cultures. He conducted research by showing photographs exhibiting expressions of basic emotion to people and asking them to identify what emotion was being expressed. In 1971, Ekman and Wallace Friesen presented to people in a preliterate culture a story involving a certain emotion, along with photographs of specific facial expressions. The photographs had been previously used in studies using subjects from Western cultures. When asked to choose, from two or three photographs, the emotion being expressed in the story, the preliterate subjects' choices matched those of the Western subjects most of the time. These results indicated that certain expressions are universally associated with particular emotions, even in instances in which the people had little or no exposure to Western culture. The only emotions the preliterate people found hard to distinguish between were fear and surprise.\nEkman noted that while universal expressions do not necessarily prove Darwin's theory that they evolved, they do provide strong evidence of the possibility. He mentioned the similarities between human expressions and those of other primates, as well as an overall universality of certain expressions to back up Darwin's ideas. The expressions of emotion that Ekman noted as most universal based on research are: anger, fear, disgust, sadness, and enjoyment.\n\nA common view is that facial expressions initially served a non-communicative adaptive function. Thus, the widened eyes in the facial expression of fear have been shown to increase the visual field and the speed of moving the eyes which helps finding and following threats. The wrinkled nose and mouth of the facial expression of disgust limit the intake of foul-smelling and possibly dangerous air and particles. Later, such reactions, which could be observed by other members of the group, increasingly become more distinctive and exaggerated in order to fulfill a primarily socially communicative function. This communicative function can dramatically or subtly influence the behavior of other members in the group. Thus, rhesus monkeys or human infants can learn to fear potential dangers based on only the facial expressions of fear of other group members or parents. Seeing fear expressions increases the tendency for flight responses while seeing anger expressions increases the tendency for fight responses. Classical conditioning studies have found that it is easier to create a pairing between a negative stimulant and anger/fear expressions than between a negative stimulant and a happiness expression. Cross-cultural studies and studies on the congenitally blind have found that these groups display the same expressions of shame and pride in situations related to social status. These expressions have clear similarities to displays of submission and dominance by other primates. Humans viewing expression of pride automatically assign a higher social status to such individuals than to those expressing other emotions.\n\nRobert Zajonc, a University of Michigan psychologist, published two reviews in 1989 of the \"facial efference theory of emotion\", also known as facial feedback theory, which he had first introduced to the scientific literature in an article published in \"Science\" in 1985. This theory proposes that the facial musculature of mammals can control the temperature of the base of the brain (in particular the hypothalamus) by varying the degree of forward and backward flow through a vascular network (a so-called \"rete mirabile\"). The theory is based on the idea that increasing the temperature of portions of the hypothalamus can produce aggressive behavior, whereas cooling can produce relaxation. Our emotional language has comparable descriptors, such as \"hot-head\" and \"cool-breezy\". The theory offers an explanation for the evolution of common facial expressions of emotion in mammals. Little experimental work has been done to extend the theory, however.\n\nCarroll Izard, a psychologist who is known for his work with emotions, discussed gains and losses associated with the evolution of emotions. He said that discrete emotion experiences emerge in ontogeny before language or conceptual structures that frame the qualia known as discrete emotion feelings are acquired. He noted that in evolution, when humans gained the capability of expressing themselves with language, which contributed greatly to emotional evolution. Not only can humans articulate and share their emotions, they can use their experiences to foresee and take appropriate action in future experiences. He did, however, raise the question of whether or not humans have lost some of their empathy for one another, citing things such as murder and crime against one another as destructive.\n\nJoseph LeDoux focuses much of his research on the emotion fear. Fear can be evoked by two systems in the brain, both involving the thalamus and the amygdala: one old, short and fast, the other more recently evolved, more circuitous and slower. In the older system, sensory information travels directly and quickly from the thalamus to the amygdala where it elicits the autonomic and motor responses we call fear. In the younger system, sensory information travels from the thalamus to the relevant cortical sensory areas (touch to the somatosensory cortex, vision to the visual cortex, etc.) and on to frontal association areas, where appraisal occurs. These frontal areas communicate directly with the amygdala and, in light of appraisal, may reduce or magnify the amygdala's fear response. If you glimpse what looks like a snake, long before your younger frontal areas have had time to determine it is a stick, the old thalamus-amygdala system will have evoked fear. LeDoux hypothesizes that the old fast system persists because a behavioral response at the first hint of danger is of little consequence when mistaken but may mean the difference between life and death when appropriate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6247840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6247840", "title": "Galbraith plot", "text": "Galbraith plot\n\nIn statistics, a Galbraith plot (also known as Galbraith's radial plot or just radial plot) is one way of displaying several estimates of the same quantity that have different standard errors.\n\nIt can be used to examine heterogeneity in a meta-analysis, as an alternative or supplement to a forest plot.\n\nA Galbraith plot is produced by first calculating the standardized estimates or \"z\"-statistics by dividing each estimate by its standard error (SE). The Galbraith plot is then a scatter plot of each \"z\"-statistic (vertical axis) against 1/SE (horizontal axis). Larger studies (with smaller SE and larger 1/SE) will be observed to aggregate away from the origin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1303219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303219", "title": "Holism in science", "text": "Holism in science\n\nHolism in science, or holistic science, is an approach to research that emphasizes the study of complex systems. Systems are approached as coherent wholes whose component parts are best understood in context and in relation to one another and to the whole. This practice is in contrast to a purely analytic tradition (sometimes called reductionism) which aims to gain understanding of systems by dividing them into smaller composing elements and gaining understanding of the system through understanding their elemental properties. The holism-reductionism dichotomy is often evident in conflicting interpretations of experimental findings and in setting priorities for future research.\n\nDavid Deutsch calls holism anti-reductionist and refers to the concept as thinking the only legitimate way to think about science is as a series of emergent, or higher level phenomena. He argues that neither approach is purely correct.\n\nTwo aspects of Holism are:\n\n\nHolistic science is naturally suited to subjects such as ecology, biology, physics and the social sciences, where complex, non-linear interactions are the norm. These are systems where emergent properties arise at the level of the whole that cannot be predicted by focusing on the parts alone, which may make mainstream, reductionist science ill-equipped to provide understanding beyond a certain level. This principle of emergence in complex systems is often captured in the phrase ′the whole is greater than the sum of its parts′. Living organisms are an example: no knowledge of all the chemical and physical properties of matter can explain or predict the functioning of living organisms. The same happens in complex social human systems, where detailed understanding of individual behaviour cannot predict the behaviour of the group, which emerges at the level of the collective. The phenomenon of emergence may impose a theoretical limit on knowledge available through reductionist methodology, arguably making complex systems natural subjects for holistic approaches.\n\nScience journalist John Horgan has expressed this view in the book \"The End of Science\". He wrote that a certain pervasive model within holistic science, self-organized criticality, for example, \"is not really a theory at all. Like punctuated equilibrium, self-organized criticality is merely a description, one of many, of the random fluctuations, the noise, permeating nature.\" By the theorists' own admissions, he said, such a model \"can generate neither specific predictions about nature nor meaningful insights. What good is it, then?\"\n\nOne of the reasons that holistic science attracts supporters is that it seems to offer a progressive, 'socio-ecological' view of the world, but Alan Marshall's book \"The Unity of Nature\" offers evidence to the contrary; suggesting holism in science is not 'ecological' or 'socially-responsive' at all, but regressive and repressive.\n\nPermaculture takes a systems level approach to agriculture and land management by attempting to copy what happens in the natural world. Holistic management), integrates ecology and social sciences with food production. It was originally designed as a way to reverse desertification. Organic farming is sometimes considered a holistic approach.\n\nRichard Healey offered a modal interpretation and used it to present a model account of the puzzling correlations which portrays them as resulting from the operation of a process that violates both spatial and spatiotemporal separability. He argued that, on this interpretation, the nonseparability of the process is a consequence of physical property holism; and that the resulting account yields genuine understanding of how the correlations come about without any violation of relativity theory or Local Action. Subsequent work by Clifton, Dickson and Myrvold cast doubt on whether the account can be squared with relativity theory’s requirement of Lorentz invariance but leaves no doubt of an spatially entangled holism in the theory. Paul Davies and John Gribbin further observe that Wheeler's delayed choice experiment shows how the quantum world displays a sort of holism in time as well as space.\n\nIn the holistic approach of David Bohm, any collection of quantum objects constitutes an indivisible whole within an implicate and explicate order. Bohm said there is no scientific evidence to support the dominant view that the universe consists of a huge, finite number of minute particles, and offered in its stead a view of undivided wholeness: \"ultimately, the entire universe (with all its 'particles', including those constituting human beings, their laboratories, observing instruments, etc.) has to be understood as a single undivided whole, in which analysis into separately and independently existent parts has no fundamental status\".\n\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, holism led to systems thinking and its derivatives. Systems in biology, psychology, or sociology are frequently so complex that their behavior is, or appears, \"new\" or \"emergent\": it cannot be deduced from the properties of the elements alone. Holism has thus been used as a catchword. This contributed to the resistance encountered by the scientific interpretation of holism, which insists that there are ontological reasons that prevent reductive models in principle from providing efficient algorithms for prediction of system behavior in certain classes of systems.\n\nScientific holism holds that the behavior of a system cannot be perfectly predicted, no matter how much data is available. Natural systems can produce surprisingly unexpected behavior, and it is suspected that behavior of such systems might be computationally irreducible, which means it would not be possible to even approximate the system state without a full simulation of all the events occurring in the system. Key properties of the higher level behavior of certain classes of systems may be mediated by rare \"surprises\" in the behavior of their elements due to the principle of interconnectivity, thus evading predictions except by brute force simulation.\n\nJohn Muir, a Scottish born early American conservationist, wrote \"When we try to pick out anything by itself we find it hitched to everything else in the Universe\". As such, holistic thinking is often applied to ecology, combining biological, chemical, physical, economic, ethical, and political insights. The complexity grows with the area, so that it is necessary to reduce the characteristic of the view in other ways, for example to a specific time of duration.\n\nIn primary care the term \"holistic,\" has been used to describe approaches that take into account social considerations and other intuitive judgements. The term holism, and so-called approaches, appear in psychosomatic medicine in the 1970s, when they were considered one possible way to conceptualize psychosomatic phenomena. Instead of charting one-way causal links from psyche to soma, or vice versa, it aimed at a systemic model, where multiple biological, psychological and social factors were seen as interlinked.\n\nOther, alternative approaches in the 1970s were psychosomatic and somatopsychic approaches, which concentrated on causal links only from psyche to soma, or from soma to psyche, respectively. At present it is commonplace in psychosomatic medicine to state that psyche and soma cannot really be separated for practical or theoretical purposes.\n\nThe term systems medicine first appeared in 1992 and takes an integrative approach to all of the body and environment.\n\nA lively debate has run since the end of the 19th century regarding the functional organization of the brain. The holistic tradition (e.g., Pierre Marie) maintained that the brain was a homogeneous organ with no specific subparts whereas the localizationists (e.g., Paul Broca) argued that the brain was organized in functionally distinct cortical areas which were each specialized to process a given type of information or implement specific mental operations. The controversy was epitomized with the existence of a language area in the brain, nowadays known as the Broca's area.\n\nArchitecture is often argued by design academics and those practicing in design to be a holistic enterprise. Used in this context, holism tends to imply an all-inclusive design perspective. This trait is considered exclusive to architecture, distinct from other professions involved in design projects.\n\nSome economists use a causal holism theory in their work. That is they view the discipline in the manner of Ludwig Wittgenstein and claim that it can't be defined by necessary and sufficient conditions.\n\nThe Taxonomy of Educational Objectives identifies many levels of cognitive functioning, which can be used to create a more holistic education. In authentic assessment, rather than using computers to score multiple choice tests, a standards based assessment uses trained scorers to score open-response items using holistic scoring methods. In projects such as the North Carolina Writing Project, scorers are instructed not to count errors, or count numbers of points or supporting statements. The scorer is instead instructed to judge holistically whether \"as a whole\" is it more a \"2\" or a \"3\". Critics question whether such a process can be as objective as computer scoring, and the degree to which such scoring methods can result in different scores from different scorers.\n\nThere is an ongoing dispute as to whether anthropology is intrinsically holistic. Supporters of this concept consider anthropology holistic in two senses. First, it is concerned with all human beings across times and places, and with all dimensions of humanity (evolutionary, biophysical, sociopolitical, economic, cultural, psychological, etc.) Further, many academic programs following this approach take a \"four-field\" approach to anthropology that encompasses physical anthropology, archeology, linguistics, and cultural anthropology or social anthropology.\n\nSome leading anthropologists disagree, and consider anthropological holism to be an artifact from 19th century social evolutionary thought that inappropriately imposes scientific positivism upon cultural anthropology.\n\nThe term \"holism\" is additionally used within social and cultural anthropology to refer to an analysis of a society as a whole which refuses to break society into component parts. One definition says: \"as a methodological ideal, holism implies ... that one does not permit oneself to believe that our own established institutional boundaries (e.g. between politics, sexuality, religion, economics) necessarily may be found also in foreign societies.\"\n\nA major holist movement in the early twentieth century was gestalt psychology. The claim was that perception is not an aggregation of atomic sense data but a field, in which there is a figure and a ground. Background has holistic effects on the perceived figure. Gestalt psychologists included Wolfgang Koehler, Max Wertheimer, Kurt Koffka. Koehler claimed the perceptual fields corresponded to electrical fields in the brain. Karl Lashley did experiments with gold foil pieces inserted in monkey brains purporting to show that such fields did not exist. However, many of the perceptual illusions and visual phenomena exhibited by the gestaltists were taken over (often without credit) by later perceptual psychologists. Gestalt psychology had influence on Fritz Perls' gestalt therapy, although some old-line gestaltists opposed the association with counter-cultural and New Age trends later associated with gestalt therapy. Gestalt theory was also influential on phenomenology. Aron Gurwitsch wrote on the role of the field of consciousness in gestalt theory in relation to phenomenology. Maurice Merleau-Ponty made much use of holistic psychologists such as work of Kurt Goldstein in his \"Phenomenology of Perception.\"\n\nAlfred Adler believed that the individual (an integrated whole expressed through a self-consistent unity of thinking, feeling, and action, moving toward an unconscious, fictional final goal), must be understood within the larger wholes of society, from the groups to which he belongs (starting with his face-to-face relationships), to the larger whole of mankind. The recognition of our social embeddedness and the need for developing an interest in the welfare of others, as well as a respect for nature, is at the heart of Adler's philosophy of living and principles of psychotherapy.\n\nEdgar Morin, the French philosopher and sociologist, can be considered a holist based on the transdisciplinary nature of his work.\n\nMel Levine, M.D., author of \"A Mind at a Time\", and co-founder (with Charles R. Schwab) of the not-for-profit organization All Kinds of Minds, can be considered a holist based on his view of the 'whole child' as a product of many systems and his work supporting the educational needs of children through the management of a child's educational profile as a whole rather than isolated weaknesses in that profile.\n\nAccording to skeptics, the phrase \"holistic science\" is often misused by pseudosciences. In the book \"Science and Pseudoscience in Clinical Psychology\" it's noted that \"Proponents of pseudoscientific claims, especially in organic medicine, and mental health, often resort to the \"mantra of holism\" to explain away negative findings. When invoking the mantra, they typically maintain that scientific claims can be evaluated only within the context of broader claims and therefore cannot be evaluated in isolation.\" This is an invocation of Karl Popper's demarcation problem and in a posting to \"Ask a Philosopher\" Massimo Pigliucci clarifies Popper by positing, \"Instead of thinking of science as making progress by inductive generalization (which doesn’t work because no matter how many times a given theory may have been confirmed thus far, it is always possible that new, contrary, data will emerge tomorrow), we should say that science makes progress by conclusively disconfirming theories that are, in fact, wrong.\"\n\nVictor J. Stenger states that \"holistic healing is associated with the rejection of classical, Newtonian physics. Yet, holistic healing retains many ideas from eighteenth and nineteenth century physics. Its proponents are blissfully unaware that these ideas, especially superluminal holism, have been rejected by modern physics as well\".\n\nSome quantum mystics interpret the wave function of quantum mechanics as a vibration in a holistic ether that pervades the universe and wave function collapse as the result of some cosmic consciousness. This is a misinterpretation of the effects of quantum entanglement as a violation of relativistic causality and quantum field theory.\n\nSchumacher College in the UK, offers an MSc degree program in Holistic Science\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12201787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12201787", "title": "Hutchinson metric", "text": "Hutchinson metric\n\nIn mathematics, the Hutchinson metric is a function which measures \"the discrepancy between two images for use in fractal image processing\" and \"can also be applied to describe the similarity between DNA sequences expressed as real or complex genomic signals\".\n\nConsider only nonempty, compact, and finite metric spaces. For a space formula_1, let formula_2 denote the space of Borel probability measures on formula_1, with \n\nthe embedding associating to formula_5 the point measure formula_6. The support formula_7 of a measure in P(X) is the smallest closed subset of measure 1. \n\nIf \n\nis Borel measurable then the induced map \n\nassociates to formula_10 the measure formula_11 defined by\n\nfor all formula_13 Borel in formula_14.\n\nThen the Hutchinson metric is given by\n\nwhere the formula_16 is taken over all real-valued functions \"u\" with Lipschitz constant\nformula_17 \n\nThen formula_18 is an isometric embedding of formula_1 into formula_2, and if \n\nis Lipschitz then \n\nis Lipschitz with the same Lipschitz constant.\n\n"}
{"id": "5588192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5588192", "title": "I'm Your Man (film)", "text": "I'm Your Man (film)\n\nI'm Your Man is a 1992 short film which was created to showcase Loews Theatres' interactive cinema technology. Audiences used seat-mounted joysticks to vote between three options in action at six different points throughout the movie.\n\nThe movie was designed as the first test of Interfilm, Bob Bejan's interactive cinema company. The film was shot on 16mm Kodak film, transferred to laser disc, and digitally projected to allow for nearly seamless transitions when audiences made their choices. Acting and direction were less than impressive; the movie was shot over only 6 days, and Bejan did not require a second take of any shot.\n\nIn very early roles for both of them, comedy actors Michael Ian Black and Ben Garant appear as background in a party scene.\n\nThe film premiered in a special theater at the Loews on 19th Street and Broadway in New York City in December 1992. Tickets to the 20-minute show were $3, and ticket holders were allowed to stay for as many viewings as they wanted. Retrofitting an existing theater with the necessary voting equipment cost approximately $70,000.00, and 42 other theaters made the investment in 1993 and 1994. The film—and the interactivity itself—were well received by teens but dismissed by critics and adult moviegoers as being \"as gimmicky as three-dimensional glasses or scratch 'n' sniff\" and \"not like watching a real movie... more like rooting for a basketball team.\" A common criticism was that moviegoers would use the controls at vacant seats to vote more than once. Another concern was that the act of voting took moviegoers out of the story; it was thought that real-time interaction hampered the viewing experience, and engineers began working on an alternative technology that would let users customize movies \"before\" viewing began.\n\nAlthough the format ultimately failed due to lack of marketing and poor audience reception, \"I'm Your Man\" was released on DVD in 1998 as part of a second attempt at interactive video.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "393055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393055", "title": "Index set", "text": "Index set\n\nIn mathematics, an index set is a set whose members label (or index) members of another set. For instance, if the elements of a set \"A\" may be \"indexed\" or \"labeled\" by means of the elements of a set \"J\", then \"J\" is an index set. The indexing consists of a surjective function from \"J\" onto \"A\" and the indexed collection is typically called an \"(indexed) family\", often written as {\"A\"}.\n\n\nThe set of all the formula_6 functions is an uncountable set indexed by formula_7.\n\nIn computational complexity theory and cryptography, an index set is a set for which there exists an algorithm formula_8 that can sample the set efficiently; e.g., on input formula_9, formula_8 can efficiently select a poly(n)-bit long element from the set.\n\n"}
{"id": "33646167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33646167", "title": "Infinity Walk", "text": "Infinity Walk\n\nInfinity Walk is a therapeutic method for progressively developing coordination. It is typically usedin those with brain injuries or learning disabilities.\n\nA beginning student or patient learns to walk smoothly in a figure-eight pattern while looking at an object or person across the room. As they become able to do that consistently, other physical and mental activities are added to the coordinated walking. An advanced walker can maintain a smooth figure-eight walk while doing several other activities, \"e.g.,\" simultaneously gesturing and doing mental arithmetic as they converse with their teacher or therapist.\n\nDeveloped in the 1980s by clinical psychologist Deborah Sunbeck. It strives to improve the sensorimotor functioning of those who practice it. In developing the method, Sunbeck also applied knowledge of social facilitation and intrinsic motivation to the task of creating a self-motivating method of physical and mental skill-building that would help the user develop resilient self-regulated learning strategies for future challenges.\n\n"}
{"id": "42426577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42426577", "title": "Institutional complementarity", "text": "Institutional complementarity\n\nInstitutional complementarity refers to situations of interdependence among institutions. This concept is frequently used to explain the degree of institutional diversity that can be observed across and within socio-economic systems, and its consequences on economic performance. In particular, the concept of institutional complementarity has been used to illustrate why institutions are resistant to change and why introducing new institutions into a system often leads to unintended, sometimes suboptimal, consequences.\n\nApproaches, based on the concept of institutional complementarities, have found applications across a wide range of institutional spheres, going from firm governance and industrial relations to varieties of capitalism and political reforms. Formal models have also been developed to study the nature and consequences of institutional complementarity. After a brief description of the canonical formal representation of institutional complementarity, the most relevant domains of applications will be discussed.\n\nThe concept of institutional complementarity has deep roots in the social sciences. Whereas the sociological approach of the interdependence of different institutions has left the actions of the individuals largely outside the analysis, the modern approach, developed mainly by economists, has been based on the analysis of the constraints facing the actions of the individuals acting in different domains of choice. This approach has found applications across a wide range of institutional spheres, going from firm governance and industrial relations to varieties of capitalism and political reforms. Formal models have also been developed to study the nature and consequences of institutional complementarity.\n\nThe canonical model of institutional complementarity is due to Masahiko Aoki and relies on the theory of supermodular games developed by Paul Milgrom and John Roberts. The basic structure of the model takes the following form.\n\nLet us consider a setting with two institutional domains, and , and two sets of agents, and that do not directly interact with each other. Nevertheless, an institution implemented in one domain parametrically affects the consequences of the actions taken in the other domain. For instance, can be associated with the type of ownership structure prevailing in a given country and with the structure of labour rights. For simplicity we assume that the technological and natural environment is constant.\n\nSuppose that the agents in domain can choose a rule from two alternative options: and ; similarly, agents in domain can choose a rule from either or . For simplicity, let us assume that all agents in each domain have an identical payoff function or defined on binary choice sets of their own, either or , with another sets as the set of parameters. We say that an (endogenous) “rule” is institutionalized in a domain when it is implemented as an equilibrium choice of agents in the relevant domains.\n\nSuppose that the following conditions hold:\n\nfor all and . The latter are the so-called supermodular (complementarity) conditions. The first condition implies that the “incremental” benefit for the agents in from choosing rather than increases as their institutional environment in is rather than . The second condition implies that the incremental benefit for agents in from choosing rather than increases if their institutional environment in is rather than . Note that these conditions are concerned with the property of incremental payoffs with respect to a change in a parameter value. They do not exclude the possibility that the level of payoff of one rule is strictly higher than that of the other for the agents of one or both domain(s) regardless of the choice of rule in the other domain. In such a case the preferred rule(s) will be implemented autonomously in the relevant domain, while the agents in the other domain will choose the rule that maximizes their payoffs in response to their institutional environment. Then the equilibrium of the system comprising and – and thus the institutional arrangement across them – is uniquely determined by preference (technology).\n\nHowever, there can also be cases in which neither rule dominates the other in either domain in the sense described above. If so, the agents in both domains need to take into account which rule is institutionalized in the other domain. Under the supermodularity condition there can then be two pure Nash equilibria (institutional arrangements) for the system comprising and , namely and . When such multiple equilibria exist, we say that and , as well as and , are “institutional complements”.\n\nIf institutional complementarity exists, each institutional arrangement characterizes as a self-sustaining equilibrium where no agent has an inventive to deviate. It terms of welfare, it may be the case that possible overall institutional arrangements are not mutually Pareto comparable, or that one of them could be even Pareto suboptimal to the other. In these cases history is the main force determining which type of institutional arrangements is likely to emerge, with the consequence that suboptimal outcomes are possible.\n\nSuppose for instance that is a Pareto-superior institutional arrangement in which and . However, for some historical reason is chosen in domain and becomes an institutional environment for domain . Faced with this institutional environment agents in domain will correspondingly react by choosing reason . Thus the Pareto-suboptimal institutional arrangement will result. This is an instance of coordination failure in the presence of indivisibility.\n\nObviously, there can also be cases where but . This is an instance where the two viable institutional arrangements cannot be Pareto ranked. Agents exhibit conflicting interests in the two equilibria and the emergence of one institutional arrangement as opposed to the other may depend on the distribution of decisional power. If for some reasons agents choosing in domain A have the power to select and enforce their preferred rule, arrangement is the most likely outcome. Alternatively, agents choosing in domain B will force the society to adopt .\n\nUgo Pagano and Robert Rowthorn present one of the earliest analytical contribution to institutional complementarity. In their models the technological choices take as parameters property rights arrangements whereas the latter are made on the basis of given technologies. The complementarities of technologies and property rights create two different sets of organizational equilibria. For instance, strong rights of the capital owners and a technology with a high intensity of specific and difficult to monitor capital are likely be institutional complements and define one possible organizational equilibrium. However, also strong workers' rights and a technology characterized by a high intensity of highly specific labor can be institutional complements and define an alternative organizational equilibrium. The organizational equilibria approach integrate the approach of Oliver Williamson, which have pointed out the influence of technology on rights and safeguards, and the views of the Radical Economists, who have stressed the opposite direction of causation. The complementarities existing in the different organizational equilibria integrate both directions of causation in a single analytical framework. A similar approach has been used to explain organizational diversity in knowledge-intensive industries, such as software.\n\nInstitutional complementarities characterize also the relations between intellectual property and human capital investments. Firms owning much intellectual property enjoy a protection for their investments in human capital, which in turn favor the acquisition of additional intellectual property. By contrast other firms may find themselves in a vicious circle where the lack of intellectual property inhibits the incentive to invest in human capital and low levels of human capital investments involve that little or no intellectual property is ever acquired.\n\nLess formal approaches to institutional complementarities have also been adopted. In their seminal contribution Peter A. Hall and David Soskice develop a broad theoretical framework to study the institutional complementarities that characterize different Varieties of Capitalism. Having a specific focus on the institutions of the political economy the authors develop an actor-centered approach for understanding the institutional similarities and differences among the developed economies. The varieties of capitalism approach has inspired a large number of application to the political economy field. To give some examples, Robert Franzese and Martin Höpner investigate the implications for industrial relations; Margarita Estevez-Abe, Torben Iversen and David Soskice use the approach to analyze social protection; Orfeo Fioretos considers political relationships, international negotiations and national interests; Peter A. Hall and Daniel W. Gingerich study the relationship among labor relations, corporate governance and rates of growth; Bruno Amable analyzes the implications of institutional complementarity for social systems of innovation and production.\n\nIn addition to institutional variety, the notion of institutional complementarity has also motivated studies on institutional change. In these works institutional complementarity is often presented as a conservative factor, which increases the stability of the institutional equilibrium. In presence of institutional complementarity change requires the simultaneous variation of different institutional domains, which in turn demands high coordination among the actors involved. Sometime, institutions themselves can act as resources for new courses of action that (incrementally) favor change.\n\nAlongside contributions on the distinct models of capitalism, the concept institutional complementarity has found application also in other domain of analysis. Masahiko Aoki, for instance, studies the role of institutional complementarity in contingent governance models of teams. Mathias Siems and Simon Deakin rely on an institutional complementarity approach to investigate differences in the business laws governing in various countries. Francesca Gagliardi argue in favor of an institutional complementarity relationship between local banking institutions and cooperative firms in Italy. Andrea Bonaccorsi and Grid Thoma, finally, uses the idea of institutional complementarity to investigate inventive performance in nano science and technology.\n"}
{"id": "46714214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46714214", "title": "Irish measure", "text": "Irish measure\n\nIrish measure or plantation measure was a system of units of land measurement used in Ireland from the 16th century plantations until the 19th century, with residual use into the 20th century. The units were based on \"English measure\" but used a linear perch measuring as opposed to the English rod of . Thus, linear units such as the furlong and mile, which were defined in terms of perches, were longer by a factor of 14:11 (~27% more) in Irish measure, while areas such as the rood or acre were larger by 196:121 (~62% more). After the Act of Union 1800, Ireland was part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, whose Parliament passed the Weights and Measures Act 1824, which established English measure in Ireland as \"Imperial measure\" or \"statute measure\". Imperial measure soon replaced Irish measure in the use of the Dublin Castle administration, but Irish measure persisted in local government, and longer still in private use.\n\nEnglish measure was sometimes used in the Kingdom of Ireland. The Plantation of Munster of the 1580s used the English acre. The \"mile line\" of the Cromwellian settlement, prohibiting Catholics settling within a mile of the Connacht coast or River Shannon, was an English statute mile. A 1653 survey of lands of the Countess of Ormonde in County Kilkenny used statute acres, whereas the 1654–5 Civil Survey and 1655–6 Down Survey used plantation acres. Irish acres were used in the 1823–37 applotments made under the Composition for Tithes (Ireland) Act 1823. A third system, \"Scotch measure\" or \"Cunningham measure\", was also used in Ulster Scots areas.\n\nMany 18th-century statutes of the Parliament of Ireland specified distances without specifying Irish or English measure, which led to confusion and disputes. From 1774 until the 1820s, the grand juries of 25 Irish counties commissioned maps at scales of one or two inches per Irish mile but the County Mayo maps (1809–1830) were surveyed and drawn by William Bald in English miles and just rescaled to Irish miles for printing. The Ordnance Survey of Ireland, from its establishment in 1824, used English miles. Thomas Telford's Howth–Dublin Post Office extension of the London–Holyhead turnpike had its mileposts in English miles. Irish measure was formally abolished by the 1824 Weights and Measures Act but the Irish Post Office continued to use the measure until 1856. An 1800 act fixed the maximum penalty for burning land at 10 pounds per \"Irish plantation acre\"; in 1846 a fine of 70 pounds was overturned in Queen's Bench as exceeding this limit: although the evidence related to seven Irish acres, the form of conviction \"seven acres\" must legally have referred to statute acres.\n\nSeveral post-1824 statutes used Irish measure when repeating the text of a pre-1824 statute being replaced or amended. The Lighting of Towns (Ireland) Act, 1828 allowed those residing within one Irish mile of a town market to vote on whether to establish town commissioners. The Parliamentary Boundaries (Ireland) Act 1832 defined the radius of Sligo borough as \"One Mile, Irish Admeasurement, from ... the Market Cross\"; the same as the boundary established for local taxation purposes in 1803. The Fever Hospitals (Ireland) Act 1834 allowed certain tenants to demise up to \"six roods, plantation measure\" to a fever hospital. The Grand Jury (Ireland) Act 1836 allowed grand juries to allocate up to \"two plantation acres\" for a Church of Ireland diocesan school. The Church of Ireland Act 1851 allowed a chapel of ease to be built on certain types of plot of up to \"One Acre Plantation Measure\".\n\nThe Irish mile ( or ) as latterly defined measured exactly 8 Irish furlongs, 320 Irish perches, or 2240 yards: approximately 1.27 statute miles or 2.048 kilometres. During the Elizabethan era, 4 Irish miles were generally equated to 5 English ones although whether this meant the old English mile or the shorter statute mile is unclear. The 21-foot perch was in use by 1609 for the Plantation of Ulster. However, a 1715 Irish statute defines the fare for ferries in terms of \"common Irish miles: (that is to say) at one English mile and an half or twelve furlongs at least to each mile\". \n\nPrior to the publication of standardised traffic regulations by the Irish Free State in 1926, signage varied from county to county, prompting complaints from travellers such as Alfred Austin. In 1902, the \"Royal Royal Book of Ireland\" explained that \"Counties Dublin, Waterford, Cork, Antrim, Down, and\nArmagh use English, but Donegal Irish Miles; the other counties either have both, or only one or two roads have Irish\". The 1909 \"\"Thorough\" Guide\" said, \"The Railway Companies adopt English miles. The [horse] car proprietors are apt to be elastic in their choice. The Counties of Dublin, Waterford, Cork, Antrim, and Armagh use English milestones, Donegal uses Irish only, and the other counties either have both or a mixture. Metal milestones, however, show English, and stone ones Irish, miles.\" The \"Oxford English Dictionary\"’s 1906 definition of \"mile\" described the Irish mile as \"still in rustic use\".\n\nThe Irish Free State standardised its roads using English statute miles, leading to some nationalist complaints. In 1937, a man being prosecuted for driving outside the 15-mile limit of his licence offered the unsuccessful defence that, since Ireland was independent, the limit should be reckoned by Irish miles \"just as no one would ever think of selling land other than as Irish acres\". In 1965, two deputies proposed an amendment to the Road Transport Act to replace the English statute miles with Irish ones; it was rejected. Such complaints—and the traditional distance itself—are now considered obsolete following Irish metrication from the 1970s; however, \"an Irish mile\" is still used colloquially to express a vague but long distance akin to a \"country mile\".\n\nTwo-Mile Borris, County Tipperary is two Irish miles from Leighmore, site of a medieval monastery.\nThreemilehouse, County Monaghan is three Irish miles from Monaghan town.\nFivemiletown, County Tyrone is five Irish miles equidistant from Clogher, Brookeborough and Tempo.\nSixmilebridge, County Clare is six Irish miles from Thomondgate, Limerick.\nSixmilecross, County Tyrone is six Irish miles from Omagh.\nThe name of Six Mile Water, County Antrim is said to derive from the crossing point six Irish miles from Antrim town on the road to Carrickfergus.\n\nThe Irish acre or plantation acre measured one Irish chain by one Irish furlong, or 4 Irish perches by 40, or 7840 square yards: approximately 0.66 hectares or 1.62 statute acres. The Lancashire acre around the Solway Firth and the Churchland acre in Yorkshire were the same size, which Frederic Seebohm in 1914 connected to the of Gwent in Wales. The Ordnance Survey of Ireland from its 1824 foundation used statute acres in its maps, which were used in turn for Griffith's Valuation and the census. The Irish acre remained common in Irish newspaper advertisements for farmland and other property until the middle of the 20th century.\n\nIn older Gaelic usage, a townland was notionally 60 or 120 \"acres\", but the size varied by the quality of the land. This unevenness was not sufficiently understood by English and Scottish planters, which caused disputes when confiscated land was divided and assigned. In Anglo-Norman Ireland, as in England of the time, \"acre\" sometimes meant any individual plot of land; as a standard measure, it was probably about 2.5 statute acres near Dublin, perhaps differing elsewhere. The \" Advertisements for Ireland\" of 1623 stated that the Irish acre varied by region from 1.25 to 8 English acres, while the Civil Survey of 1654 said that Irish surveys had measured only arable land, ignoring pasture, wood, bog, or wasteland. Of eleven townlands in Ireland named \"Fortyacres\" in 1901, six had areas between 60 and 78 statute acres; the smallest was 46 acres and the largest 185. The civil parish of Carn, County Wexford has townlands named Threeacres, Nineacres, and Nineteenacres, with respective areas of 12, 21, and 30 statute acres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58722363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58722363", "title": "Junhel Dalanon", "text": "Junhel Dalanon\n\nJunhel Dalanon is an associate professor of the School of Dentistry at Southwestern University PHINMA (Philippines), former president of the Philippine Dental Association Cebu Chapter, and a Ph.D. student at the Department of Stomatognathic Function and Occlusal Reconstruction in Tokushima University (Japan). He is notable for chronicling the evolution of dental education and dentistry in the Philippines.\n\nDalanon was born on 1981 in Cebu City to Capt. Benjamin Dalanon Jr., a retired master mariner, and Mrs. Angelina Dalanon, a retired teacher. He is the eldest among four siblings. He spent his preschool days at the Sacred Heart School for Boys, elementary at the University of San Carlos Boys School, and was a scholar at the Cebu City National Science High School.\n\nHe finished his dental degree in 2005 at the Southwestern University PHINMA. After passing the Professional Regulation Commission's licensure examination for dentists, he studied Nursing for Health Allied Professions for a year at the Cebu Normal University while undergoing a postgraduate training in orthodontics and temporomandibular joint dysfunction management at the Center for Advance Dental Studies in Quezon City, Philippines. He then took up and finished a certificate course in Professional Education in 2008, Diploma in Special Education in 2009, Master of Arts in Teaching Special Education in 2010, and Doctor of Education in Educational Management in 2014.\n\nIn 2014 he was invited by the dean of the school of dentistry and the chief of clinics of Southwestern University PHINMA to join the faculty. As a specialist in special needs dentistry, he frequently lectures for the Philippine Dental Association Cebu Chapter and the Department of Health Regional Office VII (DOH RO VII) for the Public Health Dentists of Bohol, Cebu, Negros Oriental and Siquijor. One of these lectures was during the 1st Public Health Dental Congress in Central Visayas on June 14 and 15, 2016 at Sarrosa International Hotel and Residential Suites, Kasambagan, Cebu City.\n\nIn 2016 he became the youngest president of the Philippine Dental Association Cebu Chapter and subsequently the youngest to receive a national award as one of only 10, Philippine Dental Association's most outstanding chapter presidents. Together with then president of the National Association of Dental Traders, Inc., Mrs. Lourdes Villaroman, they organized the 1st Philipine Dental Exposition on July 28-29, 2016. During his term of office, he has been a frequent source of information regarding dental health in various radio and television programs like ABS-CBN's TV Patrol and DYAB Cebu. \n\n"}
{"id": "37848259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37848259", "title": "Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution", "text": "Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution\n\nKarl Marx's Theory of Revolution is a 5-volume work (1977–1990) about Karl Marx by Hal Draper.\n\nThe economist Robert Heilbroner praised \"Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution\" as an \"extraordinarily stimulating work written in a fresh, open style which comes as a welcome relief after the turgidities of so much Marxist writing.\" The political scientist David McLellan described it as a \"splendidly detailed discussion aiming to show that Marx was always right.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337489", "title": "Karpman drama triangle", "text": "Karpman drama triangle\n\nThe drama triangle is a social model of human interaction – the triangle maps a type of destructive interaction that can occur between people in conflict. The drama triangle model is a tool used in psychotherapy, specifically transactional analysis.\n\nThe drama triangle is a social model that was conceived by Stephen Karpman, a student studying under Eric Berne, the father of transactional analysis. Berne encouraged Karpman to publish what Berne referred to as \"Karpman's triangle\". Karpman's article was published in 1968. Karpman received the Eric Berne Memorial Scientific Award in 1972 for this work.\n\nThrough popular usage and the work of Karpman and others, Karpman's triangle has been adapted for use in structural analysis (\"defining the conflict roles of persecutor, victim, and rescuer\") and transactional analysis (\"diagramming how participants switch roles in conflict\").\n\nKarpman used triangles to map conflicted or drama-intense relationship transactions. The Karpman Drama Triangle models the connection between personal responsibility and power in conflicts, and the destructive and shifting roles people play. He defined three roles in the conflict; Persecutor, Rescuer (the one up positions) and Victim (one down position). Karpman placed these three roles on an inverted triangle and referred to them as being the three aspects, or faces of drama. Karpman, who had interests in acting and was a member of the Screen Actors Guild, chose the term \"drama triangle\" rather than the term \"conflict triangle\" as the Victim in his model is not intended to represent an actual victim, but rather someone feeling or acting like a victim.\n\n\nInitially, a drama triangle arises when a person takes on the role of a victim or persecutor. This person then feels the need to enlist other players into the conflict. As often happens, a rescuer is encouraged to enter the situation. These enlisted players take on roles of their own that are not static, and therefore various scenarios can occur. For example, the victim might turn on the rescuer, the rescuer then switches to persecuting.\n\nThe motivations for each participant and the reason the situation endures is that each gets their unspoken (and frequently unconscious) psychological wishes/needs met in a manner they feel justified, without having to acknowledge the broader dysfunction or harm done in the situation as a whole. As such, each participant is acting upon their own selfish needs, rather than acting in a genuinely responsible or altruistic manner. Thus any character from all of three in this triangle might \"ordinarily come on like a plaintive victim; it is now clear that the one can switch into the role of Persecutor providing it is 'accidental' and the one apologizes for it\".\n\nThe motivations of the rescuer are the least obvious. In the terms of the drama triangle, the rescuer is someone who has a mixed or covert motive and is actually benefiting egoically in some way from being \"the one who rescues\". The rescuer has a surface motive of resolving the problem and appears to make great efforts to solve it, but also has a hidden motive to not succeed, or to succeed in a way that they benefit. For example, they may get a self-esteem boost or receive respected rescue status, or derive enjoyment by having someone depend on them and trust them – and act in a way that ostensibly seems to be trying to help, but at a deeper level plays upon the victim in order to continue getting a payoff..\n\nIn some cases, the relationship between the victim and the rescuer can be one of codependency. The rescuer keeps the victim dependent on them by encouraging their victimhood. The victim gets their needs met by having the rescuer take care of them.\n\nIn general, participants tend to have a primary or habitual role (victim, rescuer, persecutor) when they enter into drama triangles. Participants first learn their habitual role in their family of origin. Even though participants each have a role with which they most identify, once on the triangle, participants rotate through all the positions, going completely around the triangle.\n\nEach triangle has a \"payoff\" for those playing it. The \"antithesis\" of a drama triangle lies in discovering how to deprive the actors of their payoff.\n\nFamily therapy movement. After World War II, therapists observed that while many battle-torn veteran patients readjusted well after returning to their families, some patients did not; some even regressed when they returned to their home environment. Researchers felt that they needed an explanation for this and began to explore the dynamics of family life – and thus began the family therapy movement. Prior to this time, psychiatrists and psychoanalysts focused on the patient’s already-developed psyche and downplayed outside detractors. Intrinsic factors were addressed and extrinsic reactions were considered as emanating from forces within the person.\n\nTransactions analysis. In the 1950s, Eric Berne, M.D. developed Transactional Analysis – a method for studying interactions between individuals. This approach was profoundly different than that of Freud. While Freud relied on asking patients about themselves, Berne felt that a therapist could learn by observing what was communicated (words, body language, facial expressions) in a transaction. So instead of directly asking the patient questions, Berne would frequently observe the patient in a group setting, noting all of the transactions that occurred between the patient and other individuals.\n\nTriangles/triangulation. The theory of triangulation was originally published in 1966 by Murray Bowen, M.D. as one of eight parts of Bowen's family systems theory. Murray Bowen, M.D., a pioneer in family systems theory, began his early work with schizophrenics at the Menninger Clinic, from 1946 to 1954. Triangulation is the “process whereby a two-party relationship that is experiencing tension will naturally involve third parties to reduce tension”. Simply put, when people find themselves in conflict with another person, they will reach out to a third person. The resulting triangle is more comfortable as it can hold much more tension because the tension is being shifted around three people instead of two.\n\nBowen studied the dyad of the \"mother and her schizophrenic child\" while he had them both living in a research unit at the Menninger clinic. Bowen then moved to the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), where he resided from 1954 to 1959. At the NIMH Bowen extended his hypothesis to include the \"father-mother-child\" triad. Bowen considered \"differentiation\" and \"triangles\" the crux of his theory, Bowen Family Systems Theory. Bowen intentionally used the word \"triangle\" rather than \"triad\". In Bowen Family Systems Theory, the triangle is an essential part of the relationship.\n\nCouples left to their own resources oscillate between closeness and distance. Two people having this imbalance often have difficulty resolving it by themselves. To stabilize the relationship, the couple often seek the aid of a third party to help re-establish closeness. A triangle is the smallest possible relationship system that can restore balance in a time of stress. The third person assumes an outside position. In periods of stress, the outside position is the most comfortable and desired position. The inside position is plagued by anxiety, along with its emotional closeness. The outsider serves to preserve the inside couple’s relationship. Bowen noted that not all triangles are constructive – some are destructive.\n\nPathological/perverse triangles. In 1968, Nathan Ackerman, MD conceptualized a destructive triangle. Ackerman stated \"“we observe certain constellations of family interactions which we have epitomized as the pattern of family interdependence, roles those of destroyer or persecutor, the victim of the scapegoating attack, and the family healer or the family doctor.\" Ackerman also recognize the pattern of attack, defense, and counterattack, as shifting roles.\n\nKarpman triangles. In 1968, Stephen Karpman, M.D. theorizes the Karpman Drama Triangle in an article titled \"Fairy tales and script drama analysis\". Karpman was a recent graduate of Duke University School of Medicine and was doing post post-graduate studies under Eric Berne at the time.\n\nEric Berne, a Canadian-born psychiatrist, created the theory of transactional analysis, in the middle of the 20th century, as a way of explaining human behavior. Berne's theory of transactional analysis was based on the ideas of Freud but was distinctly different. Freudian psychotherapists focused on talk therapy as a way of gaining insight to their patients' personalities. Berne believed that insight could be better discovered by analyzing patients’ social transactions.\n\n\"Games\" in transactional analysis refers to a series of transactions that is complementary (reciprocal), ulterior, and proceeds towards a predictable outcome. In this context, the Karpman Drama Triangle is a \"game\".\n\nGames are often characterized by a switch in roles of players towards the end. The number of players may vary. Games in this sense are devices used (often unconsciously) by people to create a circumstance where they can justifiably feel certain resulting feelings (such as anger or superiority) or justifiably take or avoid taking certain actions where their own inner wishes differ from societal expectations. They are always a substitute for a more genuine and full adult emotion and response which would be more appropriate. Three quantitative variables are often useful to consider for games:\n\nThe consequences of games may vary from small paybacks to paybacks built up over a long period to a major level. Based on the degree of acceptability and potential harm, games are classified into three categories, representing first degree games, second degree games, and third degree games:\n\nThe Karpman triangle was an adaptation of a model that was originally conceived to analyze the play-action pass and the draw play in American football and later adapted as a way to analyze movie scripts. Karpman is reported to have doodled thirty or more diagram types before settling on the triangle. Karpman credits the movie \"Valley of the Dolls\" as being a testbed for refining the model into what Berne coined as the Karpman Drama Triangle.\n\nKarpman now has many variables of the Karpman triangle in his fully developed theory, besides role switches. These include space switches (private-public, open-closed, near-far) which precede, cause, or follow role switches, and script velocity (number of role switches in a given unit of time). These include the \"Question Mark triangle, False Perception triangle, Double Bind triangle, The Indecision triangle, the Vicious Cycle triangle, Trapping triangle, Escape triangle, Triangles of Oppression, and Triangles of Liberation, Switching in the triangle,\" and \"the Alcoholic Family triangle.\"\n\nWhile transactional analysis is the method for studying interactions between individuals, one researcher postulates that drama-based leaders can instill an organizational culture of drama. \"Persecutors\" are more likely to be in leadership positions and a \"prosecutor culture\" goes hand in hand with cutthroat competition, fear, blaming, manipulation, high turnover and an increased risk of lawsuits. There are also \"victim cultures\" which can lead to low morale and low engagement as well as an avoidance of conflict, and \"rescuer cultures\" which can be characterized as having a high dependence on the leader, low initiative and low innovation.\n\nThe Winner's Triangle was published by Acey Choy in 1990 as a therapeutic model for showing patients how to alter social transactions when entering a triangle at any of the three entry points. Choy recommends that anyone feeling like a victim think more in terms of being \"vulnerable and caring\", that anyone cast as a persecutor adopt an \"assertive\" posture, and anyone recruited to be a rescuer should react by being \"caring\".\n\n\nThe Power of TED, first published in 2009, recommends that the \"victim\" adopt the alternative role of \"creator\", view the persecutor as a \"challenger\", and enlist a \"coach\" instead of a rescuer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51913", "title": "Legislation", "text": "Legislation\n\nLegislation (or \"statutory law\") is law which has been promulgated (or \"enacted\") by a legislature or other governing body or the process of making it. Before an item of legislation becomes law it may be known as a bill, and may be broadly referred to as \"legislation\", while it remains under consideration to distinguish it from other business. Legislation can have many purposes: to regulate, to authorize, to outlaw, to provide (funds), to sanction, to grant, to declare or to restrict. It may be contrasted with a non-legislative act which is adopted by an executive or administrative body under the authority of a legislative act or for implementing a legislative act.\n\nUnder the Westminster system, an item of primary legislation is known as an Act of Parliament after enactment.\n\nLegislation is usually proposed by a member of the legislature (e.g. a member of Congress or Parliament), or by the executive, whereupon it is debated by members of the legislature and is often amended before passage. Most large legislatures enact only a small fraction of the bills proposed in a given session. Whether a given bill will be proposed and is generally a matter of the legislative priorities of government.\n\nLegislation is regarded as one of the three main functions of government, which are often distinguished under the doctrine of the separation of powers. Those who have the formal power to \"create\" legislation are known as legislators; a judicial branch of government will have the formal power to \"interpret\" legislation (see statutory interpretation); the executive branch of government can act only within the powers and limits set by the law.\n\nThe function and procedures are primarily the responsibility of the legislature. However, there are situations where legislation is made by other bodies or means, such as when constitutional law or secondary legislation is enacted. Such other forms of law-making include referendums, orders in council or regulations. The term \"legislation\" is sometimes used to include these situations, or the term \"primary legislation\" may be used to exclude these other forms.\n\nThe phrase \"dead letter\" refers to legislation that has not been revoked, but that has become inapplicable or obsolete or is no longer enforced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10401093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10401093", "title": "Moral syncretism", "text": "Moral syncretism\n\nMoral syncretism consists of the attempt to reconcile disparate or contradictory moral beliefs, often while melding the ethical practices of various schools of thought.\n\nThe requirements of a global ethic call for \"a minimal basic consensus relating to binding values, irrevocable standards and moral attitudes, which can be affirmed by all religions despite their undeniable dogmatic or theological differences and should also be supported by non-believers.\" It cannot, however, make the specific ethics of the different religions and philosophies around the world superfluous or obsolete, nor should it strive to do so.\n\nSyncretism tends to facilitate coexistence and constructive interaction between different cultures (intercultural competence), a factor that has recommended it to rulers of multi-ethnic realms. Conversely the rejection of syncretism, usually in the name of \"piety\" and \"orthodoxy,\" may help to generate, bolster or authorize a sense of cultural unity in a well-defined minority or majority. While strengthening the ethical identity of the subgroup, this is often detrimental to the unity of the whole.\n\nA cornerstone of moral syncretism is that religion cannot be morality's only arbiter.\n\nThe Dalai Lama, for example, has said that compassion and affection are human values that are independent of religion: \"We need these human values. I call these secular ethics, secular beliefs. There’s no relationship with any particular religion. Even without religion, even as nonbelievers, we have the capacity to promote these things.\"\n\nThis notion is also supported by the traditional Judeo-Christian concept of natural law. In his book \"On Law, Morality and Politics\", St. Thomas Aquinas identifies the innate rational nature of humans as being what defines moral law: \"The rule and measure of human acts is the reason, which is the first principle of human acts.\"\n\nThis does not, however, mean secular ethics and religion are mutually exclusive. In fact, many principles, such as the Golden Rule, are present in both systems, and some religious people, as well as some Deists, prefer to adopt a rational approach to ethics.\n\nMost atheists argue that no religious basis is necessary for one to live an ethical life. They assert that atheists are as motivated towards moral behavior as anyone, or more, citing a range of non-theistic sources of moral behavior including: parental love, their conventional (or advanced) educated upbringing, natural empathy, compassion and the humane concern; respect for social norms, criminal law stemming from natural law, police or other enforced order (and in some cases society); and a desire for a good reputation and self-esteem. According to this view, ethical behavior is a natural consequence of altruistic motivation, not stemming from divine or tenet-prescribed system of punishment or reward in life and/or after death, though experiences and tentative expectations may instead play a role in forming and strengthening a moral atheist's motivations and ethics, united in rejection of any theory of all human beings' afterlife. Thus while atheism does not entail any particular moral philosophy, many atheists are drawn towards philosophies and worldviews such as: secular humanism, empiricism, objectivism, or utilitarianism, which provide a moral framework that is not founded on faith in deities.\n\nHumanists endorse universal morality based on the commonality of human nature and the belief that knowledge of right and wrong is based on our understanding of individual and joint interests, rather than a system of ethics stemming from a transcendental or arbitrarily local source, rejecting faith completely as a basis for moral action. The humanist ethics goal is a search for viable individual, social and political principles of conduct, judging them on their ability to enhance human well-being and individual responsibility.\n\nThe International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) is the worldwide umbrella organization for those adhering to the Humanist life stance. Member organisations and individual members are required to accept the following statement:\n\nHumanism is also known to adopt principles of the Golden Rule. As Oscar Wilde once said, \"Selfishness is not living as one wishes to live, it is asking others to live as one wishes to live.\" This emphasizes a respect for other people's identities and ideals.\n\nThe School of Economic Science (SES) is an organisation based in Mandeville Place, London, founded by Leon MacLaren in 1937. Originally constituted to facilitate the study of economics, over time it came to focus on philosophy, particularly the Hindu tradition of Advaita Vedanta. In North America, the SES is also known as the School of Practical Philosophy, or by other similar names. In Australia, it is known as the School of Philosophy. Although the SES has been highly criticized for its methodology and alleged motives, it purports to be a syncretic school of moral philosophy.\n\nSeveral groups have taken on the challenge of establishing a world community through doctrine, faith and practice.\n\nUnitarian Universalism is a theologically liberal religion characterized by its support of \"a free and responsible search for truth and meaning.\" This principle permits Unitarian Universalists a wide range of beliefs and practices. Some communities even offer a class called \"Building Your Own Theology.\"\n\nMany Unitarian Universalists consider themselves humanists, while others hold Christian, Buddhist, Jewish, pagan, atheist, agnostic, pantheist, or other beliefs. Some choose to attach no particular theological label to their idiosyncratic combination of beliefs. Others consider themselves to be Unitarian Universalists in theology and seek moral orientation in the Unitarian Universalist Association's Seven Principles and Six Sources. This diversity of views is considered a strength, since the emphasis is placed on a common search for a meaningful existence, rather than an adherence to a particular doctrine.\n\nThe philosophy of Universal Sufism revolves around a unity of all people and religions, as well as the ability to find beauty in all things. It is a form of Sufism that does not exist within the traditional framework of Islam and was most likely influenced by Advaita philosophy. Universal Sufism is characterised by its respect (if not inclusion) for other devotional traditions and its disapproval of miracles.\n\nIt is mandated that Universal Sufis should strive to \"realize and spread the knowledge of Unity, the religion of Love, and Wisdom, so that the biases and prejudices of faiths and beliefs may, of themselves, fall away, the human heart overflow with love, and all hatred caused by distinctions and differences be rooted out.\"\n"}
{"id": "44420291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44420291", "title": "Nemesis (philosophy)", "text": "Nemesis (philosophy)\n\nNemesis (Greek: \"νέμεσις\") is a philosophical term first created by Aristotle in his Nicomachean Ethics. The term means one who feels pain caused by others' undeserved success. It is part of a trio of terms, with \"epikhairekakia\" (ἐπιχαιρεκακία ) meaning one who takes pleasure in others' pain, similar to Schadenfreude, and \"phthonos\" (φθόνος) meaning one who feels pain caused by any pleasure, deserved or not, similar to envy.\n\nIt is the opposite of pity, as pity is pain at undeserved \"mis\"fortune.\n"}
{"id": "19572337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19572337", "title": "O mark", "text": "O mark\n\nAn O mark, also known as Marujirushi () in Japan and Gongpyo (, 공標, ball mark) in Korea, is the name of the symbol \"⭕\" used to represent affirmation in East Asia, similar to its Western equivalent of the checkmark. Its opposite is the X mark (\"✗\") or (\"×\").\n\nThe is a variant of the O mark used in Japan, written as 💮. It is typically drawn as a spiral surrounded by rounded flower petals, suggesting a flower. It is frequently used in praising or complimenting children, and the motif often appears in children's characters and logos.\n\nThe hanamaru is frequently written on tests if a student has achieved full marks or an otherwise outstanding result. Sometimes used in place of an O mark in grading written response problems if a student's answer is especially good. Some teachers will add more rotations to the spiral the better the answer is. It is also used as a symbol for good weather.\n\nUnicode provides various related symbols, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2562813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2562813", "title": "Omphaloskepsis", "text": "Omphaloskepsis\n\nOmphaloskepsis or navel-gazing is contemplation of one's navel as an aid to meditation.\n\nThe word derives from the Ancient Greek words (, ) and (, ).\n\nActual use of the practice as an aid to contemplation of basic principles of the cosmos and human nature is found in the practice of yoga of Hinduism and sometimes in the Eastern Orthodox Church. In yoga, the navel is the site of the manipura (also called nabhi) chakra, which yogis consider \"a powerful chakra of the body\". The monks of Mount Athos, Greece, were described as \"Omphalopsychians\" by J.G. Minningen, writing in the 1830s, who says they \"...pretended or fancied that they experienced celestial joys when gazing on their umbilical region, in converse with the Deity\".\n\nHowever, phrases such as \"contemplating one's navel\" or \"navel-gazing\" are frequently used, usually in jocular fashion, to refer to self-absorbed pursuits.\n\n"}
{"id": "1392776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392776", "title": "Organizational chart", "text": "Organizational chart\n\nAn organizational chart (often called organization chart, org chart, organigram(me), or organogram) is a diagram that shows the structure of an organization and the relationships and relative ranks of its parts and positions/jobs. The term is also used for similar diagrams, for example ones showing the different elements of a field of knowledge or a group of languages.\n\nThe organization chart is a diagram showing graphically the relation of one official to another, or others, of a company. It is also used to show the relation of one department to another, or others, or of one function of an organization to another, or others. This chart is valuable in that it enables one to visualize a complete organization, by means of the picture it presents.\n\nA company's organizational chart typically illustrates relations between people within an organization. Such relations might include managers to sub-workers, directors to managing directors, chief executive officer to various departments, and so forth. When an organization chart grows too large it can be split into smaller charts for separate departments within the organization. The different types of organization charts include:\n\nThere is no accepted form for making organization charts other than putting the principal official, department or function first, or at the head of the sheet, and the others below, in the order of their rank. The titles of officials and sometimes their names are enclosed in boxes or circles. Lines are generally drawn from one box or circle to another to show the relation of one official or department to the others.\n\nThe Scottish-American engineer Daniel McCallum (1815–1878) is credited for creating the first organizational charts of American business around 1854. This chart was drawn by George Holt Henshaw.\n\nThe term \"organization chart\" came into use in the early twentieth century. In 1914 Brinton declared \"organization charts are not nearly so widely used as they should be. As organization charts are an excellent example of the division of a total into its components, a number of examples are given here in the hope that the presentation of organization charts in convenient form will lead to their more widespread use.\" In those years industrial engineers promoted the use of organization charts.\n\nIn the 1920s a survey revealed that organizational charts were still not common among ordinary business concerns, but they were beginning to find their way into administrative and business enterprises.\n\nThe term \"organigram\" originated in the 1960s.\n\nThere are several limitations of organizational charts:\n\nThe example on the right shows a simple hierarchical organizational chart.\n\nAn example of a \"line relationship\" (or chain of command in military relationships) in this chart would be between the general and the two colonels - the colonels are directly responsible to the general.\n\nAn example of a \"lateral relationship\" in this chart would be between \"Captain A\", and \"Captain B\" who both work on level and both report to the \"Colonel B\".\n\nVarious shapes such as rectangles, squares, triangles, circles can be used to indicate different roles. Color can be used both for shape borders and connection lines to indicate differences in authority and responsibility, and possibly formal, advisory and informal links between people. A department or position yet to be created or currently vacant might be shown as a shape with a dotted outline. Importance of the position may be shown both with a change in size of the shape in addition to its vertical placement on the chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "13374897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13374897", "title": "Orthodox Judaism outreach", "text": "Orthodox Judaism outreach\n\nOrthodox Jewish outreach, often referred to as Kiruv or Keruv ( \"bringing close\"), is the collective work or movement of Orthodox Judaism that reaches out to non-Orthodox Jews to encourage belief in God and living according to Orthodox Jewish law. The process of a Jew becoming more observant of Orthodox Judaism is called \"teshuva\" (\"return\" in Hebrew) making the \"returnee\" a \"baal teshuva\" (\"master of return\"). Orthodox Jewish outreach has worked to enhance the rise of the baal teshuva movement.\n\nThe late 1960s and early 1970s saw the founding of the non-Hasidic, Haredi institutions that eventually became the Aish HaTorah, Ohr Somayach, and Machon Shlomo yeshivas.\n\nRabbi Noah Weinberg was one of the pioneers of this movement with Aish HaTorah. Ohr Somayach has also played a major role in the baal teshuva movement through its education of generations of students.\n\nThe world's first baal teshuva yeshiva for men was Hadar Hatorah which opened in New York in 1962 under Rabbi Yisroel Jacobson, and continues to operate today. Other baal teshuva yeshivas include the Diaspora Yeshiva, founded by Rabbi Mordechai Goldstein in Jerusalem's Old City in 1967, and Dvar Yerushalayim, established in 1970. Baal teshuva yeshivas for women include Neve Yerushalayim, founded in 1970, and EYAHT, affiliated with Aish HaTorah and founded in 1982.\n\nConcurrent with the opening of baal teshuva learning programs in Israel in the 1970s, a small number of Orthodox outreach workers began approaching English-speaking, college-age students visiting the Western Wall and inviting them to experience a Shabbat meal with a host family or to check out one of the baal teshuva yeshivas. These outreach workers included Rabbi Meir Schuster, Baruch Levine, and, beginning in 1982, Jeff Seidel.\n\nWithin Modern Orthodox Judaism, the Union of Orthodox Congregations created the National Conference of Synagogue Youth (NCSY) to reach Jewish teenagers in public schools. Founded by Rabbi Pinchas Stolper the movement also developed its in-house literature geared to the newly observant mainly written by Rabbi Aryeh Kaplan.\n\nIn 1987, an organization called National Jewish Outreach Program (NJOP) was founded by Ephraim Buchwald.\n\nRabbi Yosef Yitzchok Schneersohn, 6th leader of the Chabad-Lubavitch branch of Hasidic Judaism, and then his successor, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson were responsible for turning Chabad's activities toward outreach. Each in turn sent out rabbinic emissaries, known as \"Shluchim\", and their wives to settle in places across the world solely for the purpose of teaching those who did not receive a Jewish education or to inspire those who did. The vehicle chosen for this was termed a \"Chabad house.\"\n\nChabad has been active in reaching out to Jews through its synagogues and communal institutions, as well as more direct outreach efforts, such as its Mitzvah tanks. The organization has been recognized as using free holiday services to reach out across denominations.\n\nThe Association for Jewish Outreach Professionals (AJOP) was established in 1987 to unite and enhance the work of outreach rabbis and their wives.\n\nThe Kiruv Organisation was founded in 1995 by Yossef Mizrahi in New York for the purpose of connecting Jews to Judaism and Torah, and teaching musar.\n\nProject Genesis is a Baltimore-based kiruv effort to increase the numbers of baalei teshuva.\n\nLev Echad is an Israel-based umbrella organization for the Lev outreach network to develop and facilitate innovative Torah educational programs in Israel and abroad. \n\nEsther Jungreis was the founder of the international Hineni movement in America (Until her passing August 23, 2016).\n\n\nTorah Umesorah: The National Society for Hebrew Day Schools was founded by Rabbi Shraga Feivel Mendlowitz. It is an American Orthodox organization which has opened hundreds of day schools and provides resources to many different Orthodox Jewish day schools. It has an outreach effort called Partners In Torah whereby volunteer Orthodox men and women learn on the phone for an hour a week with a non-Orthodox study-partner. A similar program run by Chabad is called Jnet. Torah Umesorah also sponsors the SEED Program whereby young Yeshiva students spend a few weeks during their summers teaching, this is similar to the Chabad Lubavitch \"peace corps\" which are Yeshiva-student pairs that visit remote Jewish communities over the summers to help develop Jewish communities by teaching.\n\n\n\nChabad-Lubavitch\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13793909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13793909", "title": "Penman–Monteith equation", "text": "Penman–Monteith equation\n\nLike the Penman equation, the Penman–Monteith equation (after Howard Penman and John Monteith) approximates net evapotranspiration (ET), requiring as input daily mean temperature, wind speed, relative humidity and solar radiation. Other than radiation, these parameter are implicit in the derivation of formula_1, formula_2, and formula_3, if not conductances below.\n\nThe United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) standard methods for modeling evapotranspiration use a Penman–Monteith equation. The standard methods of the American Society of Civil Engineers modify that Penman–Monteith equation for use with an hourly time step. The SWAT model is one of many GIS-integrated hydrologic models estimating ET using Penman–Monteith equations.\n\nEvapotranspiration contributions are very significant in a watershed's water balance, yet are often not emphasized in results because the precision of this component is often weak relative to more directly measured phenomena, e.g. rain and stream flow. In addition to weather uncertainties, the Penman–Monteith equation is sensitive to vegetation specific parameters, e.g. stomatal resistance or conductance. Gaps in knowledge of such are filled by educated assumptions, until more specific data accumulates.\n\nVarious forms of crop coefficients (K) account for differences between specific vegetation modeled and a \"reference evapotranspiration\" (RET or ET) standard. Stress coefficients (K) account for reductions in ET due to environmental stress (e.g. soil saturation reduces root-zone O, low soil moisture induces wilt, air pollution effects, and salinity). Models of native vegetation cannot assume crop management to avoid recurring stress.\n\n(Monteith, 1965):\n\nNote: Often resistances are used rather than conductivities.\nwhere r refers to the resistance to flux from a vegetation canopy to the extent of some defined boundary layer.\n\nAlso note that formula_6 varies over each day, and in response to conditions as plants adjust such traits as stoma openings. Being sensitive to this parameter value, the Penman–Monteith equation obviates the need for more rigorous treatment of formula_6 perhaps varying within each day. Penman's equation was derived to estimate daily ET from daily averages.\n\nThis also explains relations used to obtain formula_8 & formula_9 in addition to assumptions key to reaching this simplified equation.\n\nThe Priestley–Taylor equation was developed as a substitute to the Penman–Monteith equation to remove dependence on observations. For Priestley–Taylor, only radiation (irradiance) observations are required. This is done by removing the aerodynamic terms from the Penman–Monteith equation and adding an empirically derived constant factor, formula_10.\n\nThe underlying concept behind the Priestley–Taylor model is that an air mass moving above a vegetated area with abundant water would become saturated with water. In these conditions, the actual evapotranspiration would match the Penman rate of potential evapotranspiration. However, observations revealed that actual evaporation was 1.26 times greater than potential evaporation, and therefore the equation for actual evaporation was found by taking potential evapotranspiration and multiplying it by formula_10. The assumption here is for vegetation with an abundant water supply (i.e. the plants have low moisture stress). Areas like arid regions with high moisture stress are estimated to have higher formula_10 values.\n\nThe assumption that an air mass moving over a vegetated surface with abundant water saturates has been questioned later. The lowest and turbulent part of the atmosphere, the atmospheric boundary layer, is not a closed box, but constantly brings in dry air from higher up in the atmosphere towards the surface. As water evaporates more easily into a dry atmosphere, evapotranspiration is enhanced. This explains the larger than unity value of the Priestley-Taylor parameter formula_10. The proper equilibrium of the system has been derived and involves the characteristics of the interface of the atmospheric boundary layer and the overlying free atmosphere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1033203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033203", "title": "Prajñā (Buddhism)", "text": "Prajñā (Buddhism)\n\nPrajñā (Sanskrit) or paññā (Pāli) \"wisdom\" is insight in the true nature of reality, namely primarily anicca (impermanence), dukkha (dissatisfaction or suffering), anattā (non-self) and śūnyatā (emptiness).\n\n\"Prajñā\" is often translated as \"wisdom\", but is closer in meaning to \"insight\", \"non-discriminating knowledge\", or \"intuitive apprehension\".\n\n\n\"Paññā\" is the fourth virtue of ten Theravāda \"pāramitās\", and the sixth of the six Mahāyāna \"pāramitās\".\n\nIn the Pāli Canon, \"paññā\" is concentrated insight into the three characteristics of all things, namely impermanence, suffering and no-self, and the four noble truths.\n\nIn the 5th-century exegetical work \"Visuddhimagga\", one of the most revered books in Theravada Buddhism, Buddhaghoṣa states that the function of \"paññā\" is \"to abolish the darkness of delusion\".\n\nIn Mahayana Buddhism, the importance of prajna was stressed in combination with karuna, compassion. It took a central place in the \"Prajñā-pāramitā Sutras\", such as the Heart Sutra. Prajna is spoken of as the principal means of attaining nirvāna, through its revelation of the true nature of all things as emptiness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174528", "title": "Saṃsāra", "text": "Saṃsāra\n\nSaṃsāra () is a Sanskrit word that means \"wandering\" or \"world\", with the connotation of cyclic, circuitous change. It also refers to the concept of rebirth and \"cyclicality of all life, matter, existence\", a fundamental assumption of all Indian religions, in short, it is the cycle of death and rebirth. \"Saṃsāra\" is sometimes referred to with terms or phrases such as transmigration, karmic cycle, reincarnation, and \"cycle of aimless drifting, wandering or mundane existence\".\n\nThe concept of \"Saṃsāra\" has roots in the Vedic literature, but the theory is not discussed there. It appears in developed form, but without mechanistic details, in the early Upanishads. The full exposition of the \"Saṃsāra\" doctrine is found in Sramanic religions such as Buddhism and Jainism, as well as various schools of Hindu philosophy after about the mid-1st millennium BCE. The \"Saṃsāra\" doctrine is tied to the Karma theory of Indian religions, and the liberation from \"Saṃsāra\" has been at the core of the spiritual quest of Indian traditions, as well as their internal disagreements. The liberation from \"Saṃsāra\" is called Moksha, Nirvana, Mukti or Kaivalya.\n\n\"Saṃsāra\" (Sanskrit: संसार) means \"wandering\", as well as \"world\" wherein the term connotes \"cyclic change\". \"Saṃsāra\" is a fundamental concept in all Indian religions, is linked to the karma theory, and refers to the belief that all living beings cyclically go through births and rebirths. The term is related to phrases such as \"the cycle of successive existence\", \"transmigration\", \"karmic cycle\", \"the wheel of life\", and \"cyclicality of all life, matter, existence\". Many scholarly texts spell \"Saṃsāra\" as \"Samsara\".\n\nAccording to Monier-Williams, \"Saṃsāra\" is rooted in the term \"Saṃsṛ\" (संसृ), which means \"to go round, revolve, pass through a succession of states, to go towards or obtain, moving in a circuit\". A conceptual form from this root appears in ancient texts as \"Saṃsaraṇa\", which means \"going around through a succession of states, birth, rebirth of living beings and the world\", without obstruction. The term shortens to \"Saṃsāra\", referring to the same concept, as a \"passage through successive states of mundane existence\", a transmigration, metempsychosis, a circuit of living where one repeats previous states, from one body to another, a worldly life of constant change, that is rebirth, growth, decay and redeath. The concept is then contrasted with the concept of moksha, also known as \"mukti\", \"nirvana\", \"nibbana\" or \"kaivalya\", which refers to liberation from this cycle of aimless wandering.\n\nThe concept of Samsara developed in the Vedic times, and is traceable in the Samhita layers such as in sections 1.164, 4.55, 6.70 and 10.14 of the Rigveda. While the idea is mentioned in the Samhita layers of the Vedas, there is lack of clear exposition there, and the idea fully develops in the early Upanishads. Damien Keown states that the notion of \"cyclic birth and death\" appears around 800 BCE. The word \"Saṃsāra\" appears, along with Moksha, in several Principal Upanishads such as in verse 1.3.7 of the Katha Upanishad, verse 6.16 of the Shvetashvatara Upanishad, verses 1.4 and 6.34 of the Maitri Upanishad.\n\nThe word \"Samsara\" is related to \"Saṃsṛti\", the latter referring to the \"course of mundane existence, transmigration, flow, circuit or stream\".\n\nThe word literally means \"wandering through, flowing on\", states Stephen J. Laumakis, in the sense of \"aimless and directionless wandering\". The concept of \"Saṃsāra\" is closely associated with the belief that the person continues to be born and reborn in various realms and forms.\n\nThe earliest layers of Vedic text incorporate the concept of life, followed by an afterlife in heaven and hell based on cumulative virtues (merit) or vices (demerit). However, the ancient Vedic Rishis challenged this idea of afterlife as simplistic, because people do not live an equally moral or immoral life. Between generally virtuous lives, some are more virtuous; while evil too has degrees, and the texts assert that it would be unfair for god Yama to judge and reward people with varying degrees of virtue or vices, in \"either or\" and disproportionate manner. They introduced the idea of an afterlife in heaven or hell in proportion to one's merit, and when this runs out, one returns and is reborn. This idea appears in ancient and medieval texts, as the cycle of life, death, rebirth and redeath, such as section 6:31 of the Mahabharata and section 6.10 of Devi Bhagavata Purana.\n\nThe historical origins of a concept of a cycle of repeated reincarnation are obscure but the idea appears in texts of both India and ancient Greece during the first millennium BCE.\n\nThe idea of Samsara is hinted in the early Vedic texts such as the Rigveda, but the theory is absent. The early textual layers of the Vedas mention and anticipate the doctrine of Karma and rebirth, however states Stephen Laumakis, the idea is not fully developed. It is in the early Upanishads where these ideas are more fully developed, but there too the discussion does not provide specific mechanistic details. The detailed doctrines flower with unique characteristics, starting around the mid 1st millennium BCE, in diverse traditions such as in Buddhism, Jainism and various schools of Hindu philosophy.\n\nSome scholars state that the \"Samsara\" doctrine may have originated from the Sramana traditions and was then adopted by the Brahmanical traditions (Hinduism). The evidence for who influenced whom in the ancient times, is slim and speculative, and the odds are the historic development of the Samsara theories likely happened in parallel with mutual influences.\n\nWhile \"Saṃsāra\" is usually described as rebirth and reincarnation of living beings, the chronological development of the idea over its history began with the questions on what is the true nature of human existence and whether people die only once. This led first to the concepts of \"Punarmṛtyu\" (\"redeath\") and \"Punaravṛtti\" (\"return\"). These early theories asserted that the nature of human existence involves two realities, one unchanging absolute Atman (soul) which is somehow connected to the ultimate unchanging immortal reality and bliss called Brahman, and that the rest is the always-changing subject (body) in a phenomenal world (Maya). Redeath, in the Vedic theosophical speculations, reflected the end of \"blissful years spent in \"svarga\" or heaven\", and it was followed by rebirth back in the phenomenal world. \"Samsara\" developed into a foundational theory of the nature of existence, shared by all Indian religions.\n\nRebirth as a human being, states John Bowker, was then presented as a \"rare opportunity to break the sequence of rebirth, thus attaining Moksha, release\". Each Indian spiritual tradition developed its own assumptions and paths (\"marga\" or \"yoga\") for this spiritual release, with some developing the ideas of \"Jivanmukti\" (liberation and freedom in this life), while others content with \"Videhamukti\" (liberation and freedom in after-life).\n\nThe Sramanas traditions (Buddhism and Jainism) added novel ideas, starting about the 6th century BCE. They emphasized human suffering in the larger context, placing rebirth, redeath and truth of pain at the center and the start of religious life. \"Samsara\" was viewed by the Sramanas as a beginningless cyclical process with each birth and death as punctuations in that process, and spiritual liberation as freedom from rebirth and redeath. The samsaric rebirth and redeath ideas are discussed in these religions with various terms, such as \"Āgatigati\" in many early Pali Suttas of Buddhism.\n\nAcross different religions, different soteriology were emphasized as the \"Saṃsāra\" theories evolved in respective Indian traditions. For example, in their \"Saṃsāra\" theories, states Obeyesekere, the Hindu traditions accepted Atman or soul exists and asserted it to be the unchanging essence of each living being, while Buddhist traditions denied such a soul exists and developed the concept of \"Anatta\". Salvation (moksha, mukti) in the Hindu traditions was described using the concepts of Atman (self) and Brahman (universal reality), while in Buddhism it (nirvana, nibbana) was described through the concept of Anatta (no self) and Śūnyatā (emptiness).\n\nThe Ajivika tradition combined \"Saṃsāra\" with the premise that there is no free will, while the Jainism tradition accepted the concept of soul (calling it \"jiva\") with free will, but emphasized asceticism and cessation of action as a means of liberation from \"Saṃsāra\" it calls bondage. The various sub-traditions of Hinduism, and of Buddhism, accepted free will, avoided asceticism, accepted renunciation and monastic life, and developed their own ideas on liberation through realization of the true nature of existence.\n\nIn Hinduism, \"Saṃsāra\" is a journey of the soul. The body dies, assert the Hindu traditions, but not the soul which it assumes to be the eternal reality, indestructible and bliss. Everything and all existence is connected, cyclical and composed of two things, the soul and the body or matter. This eternal soul called \"Atman\" never reincarnates, it does not change and cannot change in the Hindu belief. In contrast, the body and personality, can change, constantly changes, is born and dies. Current Karma impacts the future circumstances in this life, as well as the future forms and realms of lives. Good intent and actions lead to good future, bad intent and actions lead to bad future, in the Hindu view of life.\n\nA virtuous life, actions consistent with dharma, are believed by Hindus to contribute to a better future, whether in this life or future lives. The aim of spiritual pursuits, whether it be through the path of bhakti (devotion), karma (work), jnana (knowledge), or raja (meditation) is self-liberation (moksha) from \"Samsara\".\n\nThe Upanishads, part of the scriptures of the Hindu traditions, primarily focus on self-liberation from \"Saṃsāra\". The Bhagavad Gita discusses various paths to liberation. The Upanishads, states Harold Coward, offer a \"very optimistic view regarding the perfectibility of human nature\", and the goal of human effort in these texts is a continuous journey to self-perfection and self-knowledge so as to end \"Saṃsāra\". The aim of spiritual quest in the Upanishadic traditions is find the true self within and to know one's soul, a state that it believes leads to blissful state of freedom, moksha.\n\nAll Hindu traditions and Darśanas share the concept of Saṃsāra, but they differ in details and what they describe the state of liberation from Saṃsāra to be. The Saṃsāra is viewed as the cycle of rebirth in a temporal world of always changing reality or Maya (appearance, illusive), Brahman is defined as that which never changes or Sat (eternal truth, reality), and moksha as the realization of Brahman and freedom from Saṃsāra.\n\nThe dualistic devotional traditions such as Madhvacharya's Dvaita Vedanta tradition of Hinduism champion a theistic premise, assert the individual human soul and Brahman (Vishnu, Krishna) are two different realities, loving devotion to Vishnu is the means to release from Samsara, it is the grace of Vishnu which leads to moksha, and spiritual liberation is achievable only in after-life (\"videhamukti\"). The nondualistic traditions such as Adi Shankara's Advaita Vedanta tradition of Hinduism champion a monistic premise, asserting that the individual human soul and Brahman are identical, only ignorance, impulsiveness and inertia leads to suffering through Saṃsāra, in reality they are no dualities, meditation and self-knowledge is the path to liberation, the realization that one's soul is identical to Brahman is moksha, and spiritual liberation is achievable in this life (\"jivanmukti\").\n\nIn Jainism, the \"Saṃsāra\" and Karma doctrine are central to its theological foundations, as evidenced by the extensive literature on it in the major sects of Jainism, and their pioneering ideas on karma and \"Saṃsāra\" from the earliest times of the Jaina tradition. \"Saṃsāra\" in Jainism represents the worldly life characterized by continuous rebirths and suffering in various realms of existence.\n\nThe conceptual framework of the Saṃsāra doctrine differs between the Jainism traditions and other Indian religions. For instance, in Jaina traditions, soul (\"jiva\") is accepted as a truth, as is assumed in the Hindu traditions, but not assumed in the Buddhist traditions. However, Saṃsāra or the cycle of rebirths, has a definite beginning and end in Jainism.\n\nSouls begin their journey in a primordial state, and exist in a state of consciousness continuum that is constantly evolving through \"Saṃsāra\". Some evolve to a higher state, some regress asserts the Jaina theory, a movement that is driven by the karma. Further, Jaina traditions believe that there exist \"Abhavya\" (incapable), or a class of souls that can never attain moksha (liberation). The \"Abhavya\" state of soul is entered after an intentional and shockingly evil act. Jainism considers souls as pluralistic each in a karma-\"Saṃsāra\" cycle, and does not subscribe to Advaita style nondualism of Hinduism, or Advaya style nondualism of Buddhism.\n\nThe Jaina theosophy, like ancient Ajivika, but unlike Hindu and Buddhist theosophies, asserts that each soul passes through 8,400,000 birth-situations, as they circle through \"Saṃsāra\". As the soul cycles, states Padmanabh Jaini, Jainism traditions believe that it goes through five types of bodies: earth bodies, water bodies, fire bodies, air bodies and vegetable lives. With all human and non-human activities, such as rainfall, agriculture, eating and even breathing, minuscule living beings are taking birth or dying, their souls are believed to be constantly changing bodies. Perturbing, harming or killing any life form, including any human being, is considered a sin in Jainism, with negative karmic effects.\n\nA liberated soul in Jainism is one who has gone beyond \"Saṃsāra\", is at the apex, is omniscient, remains there eternally, and is known as a \"Siddha\". A male human being is considered closest to the apex with the potential to achieve liberation, particularly through asceticism. Women must gain karmic merit, to be reborn as man, and only then can they achieve spiritual liberation in Jainism, particularly in the Digambara sect of Jainism; however, this view has been historically debated within Jainism and different Jaina sects have expressed different views, particularly the Shvetambara sect that believes that women too can achieve liberation from \"Saṃsāra\".\n\nIn contrast to Buddhist texts which do not expressly or unambiguously condemn injuring or killing plants and minor life forms, Jaina texts do. Jainism considers it a bad karma to injure plants and minor life forms with negative impact on a soul's . However, some texts in Buddhism and Hinduism do caution a person from injuring all life forms, including plants and seeds.\n\n\"Saṃsāra\" in Buddhism, states Jeff Wilson, is the \"suffering-laden cycle of life, death, and rebirth, without beginning or end\". Also referred to as the wheel of existence (\"Bhavacakra\"), it is often mentioned in Buddhist texts with the term \"punarbhava\" (rebirth, re-becoming); the liberation from this cycle of existence, \"Nirvana\", is the foundation and the most important purpose of Buddhism.\n\nSamsara is considered impermanent in Buddhism, just like other Indian religions. Karma drives this impermanent Samsara in Buddhist thought, states Paul Williams, and \"short of attaining enlightenment, in each rebirth one is born and dies, to be reborn elsewhere in accordance with the completely impersonal causal nature of one's own karma; This endless cycle of birth, rebirth, and redeath is \"Saṃsāra\"\". The Four Noble Truths, accepted by all Buddhist traditions, are aimed at ending this Samsara-related re-becoming (rebirth) and associated cycles of suffering.\n\nLike Jainism, Buddhism developed its own Samsara theory, that evolved over time the mechanistic details on how the wheel of mundane existence works over the endless cycles of rebirth and redeath. In early Buddhist traditions, \"Saṃsāra\" cosmology consisted of five realms through which wheel of existence recycled. This included hells (\"niraya\"), hungry ghosts (\"pretas\"), animals (\"tiryak\"), humans (\"manushya\"), and gods (\"devas\", heavenly). In latter traditions, this list grew to a list of six realms of rebirth, adding demi-gods (\"asuras\"). The \"hungry ghost, heavenly, hellish realms\" respectively formulate the ritual, literary and moral spheres of many contemporary Buddhist traditions.\n\nThe Saṃsāra concept, in Buddhism, envisions that these six realms are interconnected, and everyone cycles life after life, and death is just a state for an afterlife, through these realms, because of a combination of ignorance, desires and purposeful karma, or ethical and unethical actions. Nirvana is typically described as the freedom from rebirth and the only alternative to suffering of \"Samsara\", in Buddhism. However, the Buddhist texts developed a more comprehensive theory of rebirth, states Steven Collins, from fears of redeath, called \"amata\" (death-free), a state which is considered synonymous with nirvana.\n\nSikhism incorporates the concepts of \"Saṃsāra\" (sometimes spelled as Sansara in Sikh texts), \"Karma\" and cyclical nature of time and existence. Founded in the 15th century, its founder Guru Nanak had a choice between the cyclical concept of ancient Indian religions and the linear concept of early 7th-century Islam, and he chose the cyclical concept of time, state Cole and Sambhi. However, states Arvind-Pal Singh Mandair, there are important differences between the \"Saṅsāra\" concept in Sikhism from the \"Saṃsāra\" concept in many traditions within Hinduism. The difference is that Sikhism firmly believes in the grace of God as the means to salvation, and its precepts encourage the bhakti of One Lord for \"mukti\" (salvation).\n\nSikhism, like the three ancient Indian traditions, believes that body is perishable, there is a cycle of rebirth, and that there is suffering with each cycle of rebirth. These features of Sikhism, along with its belief in Saṃsāra and the grace of God, is similar to some bhakti-oriented sub-traditions within Hinduism such as those found in Vaishnavism. Sikhism does not believe that ascetic life, as recommended in Jainism, is the path to liberation. Rather, it cherishes social engagement and householder's life combined with devotion to the One God as Guru, to be the path of liberation from \"Saṅsāra\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61600", "title": "Scriptio continua", "text": "Scriptio continua\n\nScriptio continua (Latin for \"continuous script\"), also known as scriptura continua or scripta continua, is a style of writing without spaces, or other marks between the words or sentences. The form also lacks punctuation, diacritics, or distinguished letter case. \nIn the West, the oldest Greek and Latin inscriptions used word dividers to separate words in sentences; however, Classical Greek and late Classical Latin both employed \"scriptio continua\" as the norm.\n\nAlthough \"scriptio continua\" is evidenced in most Classic Greek and Classic Latin manuscripts, different writing styles are depicted in documents that date back even further. And it must be noted that Classical Latin did often use the interpunct, especially in monuments and inscriptions.\n\nThe earliest texts in Classical Greek that used the Greek alphabet, as opposed to Linear B, were formatted in a constant string of capital letters from right to left. Later, this evolved to “boustrophedon,” which included lines written in alternating directions. It was only later on that the Romans adapted the Etruscan alphabet to write Latin and, in the process, switched from using points to divide words to the Greek practice of \"scriptio continua\".\n\nBefore the advent of the codex (book), Latin and Greek script was written on scrolls by enslaved scribes. The role of the scribe was to simply record everything he heard, in order to leave documentation. Because the free form of speech is so continuous, adding inaudible spaces to manuscripts would have been considered illogical. Furthermore, at a time when ink and papyrus were quite costly, adding spaces would be an unnecessary waste of such writing mediums. Typically, the reader of the text was a trained performer, who would have already memorized the content and breaks of the script. During these reading performances, the scroll acted as a cue sheet, and therefore did not require in-depth reading.\nWhile the lack of word parsing forced the reader to distinguish elements of the script without a visual aid, it also presented him with more freedom to interpret the text. The reader had the liberty to insert pauses and dictate tone, making the act of reading a significantly more subjective activity than it is today. However, the lack of spacing also led to some ambiguity because a minor discrepancy in word parsing could give the text a different meaning. For example, a phrase written in \"scriptio continua\" as \"collectamexiliopubem\" may be interpreted as \"collectam ex Ilio pubem\", meaning \"a people gathered from Troy\", or \"collectam exilio pubem\", \"a people gathered for exile\". Thus, readers had to be much more cognizant of the context to which the text referred.\n\nOver time, the current system of rapid silent reading for information replaced the older, slower, and more dramatic performance based reading, and word dividers and punctuation became more beneficial to text. Though paleographers disagree about the chronological decline of \"scriptio continua\" throughout the world, it is generally accepted that the addition of spaces first appeared in Irish and Anglo-Saxon Bibles and Gospels from the seventh and eighth centuries. Subsequently, an increasing number of European texts adopted conventional spacing, and within the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, all European texts were written with word separation. \n\nWhen word separation became the standard system, it was seen as a simplification of Roman culture because it undermined the metric and rhythmic fluency generated through \"scriptio continua\". In contrast, paleographers today identify the extinction of \"scriptio continua\" as a critical factor in augmenting the widespread absorption of knowledge in the Pre-Modern Era. By saving the reader the taxing process of interpreting pauses and breaks, the inclusion of spaces enables the brain to comprehend written text more rapidly. Furthermore, the brain has a greater capacity to profoundly synthesize text and commit a greater portion of information to memory.\n\n\"Scriptio continua\" is still in use in Thai, other Southeast Asian abugidas, (Burmese, Khmer, Javanese, Balinese, Sundanese script), Lao, and in languages that use Chinese characters (Chinese and Japanese). However, modern vernacular Chinese differentiates itself from ancient \"scriptio continua\" through its use of punctuation, although this method of separation was borrowed from the West only about a century ago. Before this, the only forms of punctuation found in Chinese writings were marks to denote quotes, proper nouns, and emphasis. Modern Tibetic languages also employ a form of \"scriptio continua\"; while they punctuate syllables, they do not use spacing between units of meaning.\n\nLatin text in \"scriptio continua\" with typical capital letters, taken from Cicero's \"De finibus bonorum et malorum\":\n\n\nWhich in modern punctuation is:\n\nWith ancient Latin punctuation is: NEQVE•PORRO•QVISQVAM•EST•QVI•DOLOREM•IPSVM•QVIA•DOLOR•SIT•AMET•CONSECTETVR•ADIPISCI•VELIT\n\nGreek text in \"scriptio continua\" with typical capital letters, taken from Hesiod's \"Theogony\":\n\nWhich in modern punctuation is:\n\nA form of \"scriptio continua\" has become common in internet e-mail addresses and domain names where, because the \"space\" character is invalid, the address for a website for \"Example Fake Website\" is written as codice_1 – without spaces between the separate words. However, the \"underscore\" or \"dash\" characters are often used as stand-ins for the \"space\" character when its use would be invalid and their use would not be.\n\nThe Chinese language did not encounter the problem of incorporating spaces into their text because, unlike most orthographic systems, where words are formed by combining a series of letters, each character already represented its own word or morpheme. On top of that, Chinese also lacked any form of punctuation until the 20th century as a result of interaction with Western civilizations. Below is an example of a normal Chinese sentence, then what it would look like without spaces or punctuation, followed by what it would look like with spaces between words, then afterwards by a pinyin transcription (in which words are normally divided), and finally an English translation:\n\nLike Chinese, Japanese implements extensive use of Chinese characters, called kanji in Japanese. However, due to the radical differences between the Chinese and Japanese languages, writing Japanese exclusively in kanji would make Japanese extremely difficult to read. This can be evidenced in Japanese texts that predate the modern kana system, in which Japanese was written entirely in kanji and man'yōgana, the latter of which are characters written solely to indicate a word's pronunciation as opposed to its meaning. For that reason, different syllabary systems called kana were developed to differentiate phonetic graphemes from ideographic ones.\n\nModern Japanese is typically written using three different types of graphemes, the first being kanji and the latter two being kana systems, the cursive hiragana and the angular katakana. While spaces are not normally used in writing, boundaries between words are often quickly perceived by Japanese speakers since kana are usually visually distinct from kanji. Japanese speakers also know that certain words, morphemes, and parts of speech are typically written using one of the three systems. Kanji is typically used for words of Japanese and Chinese origin as well as content words (i.e. nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs). Hiragana is typically used for native Japanese words, as well as commonly known words, phrases, and particles, as well as inflections of content words like verbs, adjectives, and adverbs. Katakana is typically used for loanwords from languages other than Chinese, onomatopoeia, and emphasized words.\n\nLike Chinese, Japanese lacked any sort of punctuation until interaction with Western civilizations became more common. Punctuation was adopted during the Meiji Period.\n\nBelow is an example sentence of Japanese written first in hiragana, katakana and kanji without spaces between words, second in hiragana, katakana and kanji with spaces in between words (including particles), third only in hiragana and katakana, fourth in romaji, fifth the sentence translated in English, and finally in kanji and man'yōgana.\n\nThe modern Thai script, which was said to have been created by King Ram Khamhaeng in 1283, does not contain any spaces between words, but spaces only indicate the clear endings of clauses or sentences.\n\nBelow is a sample sentence of Thai written first without spaces between words (with Thai romanization in parentheses), second written in Thai with spaces between words (also with Thai romanization in parentheses), then finally translated into English.\n\nAn example of the first line of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Javanese script (if you can't see the script, you can see ), and when they are divided (in some modern writings) by spaces and dash sign, which looks different. \n\n"}
{"id": "24824751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24824751", "title": "Self-dissimilarity", "text": "Self-dissimilarity\n\nSelf-dissimilarity is a measure of complexity defined in a series of papers by David Wolpert and William G. Macready.\nThe degrees of self-dissimilarity between the patterns of a system observed at various scales (e.g. the average matter density of a physical body for volumes at different orders of magnitude) constitute a complexity \"signature\" of that system.\n\n"}
{"id": "32102125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32102125", "title": "Siemon Allen", "text": "Siemon Allen\n\nSiemon Allen (born in Durban, South Africa) is an artist working mainly with installations. He is living and working in the United States. Allen is considered one of the most prominent exponents of the South African arts diaspora in the Northeastern USA.\n\nSiemon Allen studied fine arts at the Technikon Natal in Durban, where he graduated with a Master of Arts in 1999. During his studies he got to know his future wife, an American, and together they moved to the US later on. Today, Allen is working as a visiting professor at the department for sculpture and extended media at the Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia.\n\nWhile still living in South Africa, Allen was founding member of the FLAT Gallery (1993–1995) within the context of an artists' initiative.\n\nAllen's works were exhibited at the 2nd Johannesburg Biennale as part of the exhibition \"Graft\".he hasn't talked mostly about his private life in public life His works are part of many collections in- and outside of South Africa, including the collections of the Durban Art Gallery, the Guggenheim Museum in New York City and the Standard Bank Collection.\n\nSiemon Allen is a passionate collector and archivist of South African ephemera, which he uses to create large-scale visual and informational installations. Accordingly, these works are entitled \"collection projects\" and primarily explore the concept of creating identity through distance and the image of South Africa in general.\n\nFor his installations, Allen systematically accumulates mass-produced printed materials, which he catalogues and exhibits. The working process thus is similar to the one of an archivist.\nAs a South African living abroad, Allen is especially interested in exploring and understanding how a country is seen from outside and what is the country's role in building this image. In the early 2000s he came across a website of the South African government that strongly advertised an appeal for positive branding-politics outside of the country as well as for the recruitment of non-governmental South Africans living abroad to act as \"ambassadors\" for the country. Allen's installations both debunk this essentialist thought of a South African \"brand\" and contribute to it.\n\nAllen's actual project is about the creation of a vast, internet-based archive of audio-documents regarding the South African history. The exhibition which resulted from this archive was called \"Records\" and was shown in South Africa in 2009 and in the US in 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27707", "title": "Socialist law", "text": "Socialist law\n\nSocialist law or Soviet law denotes a general type of legal system which has been used in socialist and formerly socialist states. It is based on the civil law system, with major modifications and additions from Marxist-Leninist ideology. There is controversy as to whether socialist law ever constituted a separate legal system or not. If so, prior to the end of the Cold War, \"socialist law\" would be ranked among the major legal systems of the world.\n\nWhile civil law systems have traditionally put great pains in defining the notion of private property, how it may be acquired, transferred, or lost, socialist law systems provide for most property to be owned by the state or by agricultural co-operatives, and having special courts and laws for state enterprises.\n\nMany scholars argue that socialist law was not a separate legal classification. Although the command economy approach of the communist states meant that most types of property could not be owned, the Soviet Union always had a civil code, courts that interpreted this civil code, and a civil law approach to legal reasoning (thus, both legal process and legal reasoning were largely analogous to the French or German civil code system). Legal systems in all socialist states preserved formal criteria of the Romano-Germanic civil law; for this reason, law theorists in post-socialist states usually consider the socialist law as a particular case of the Romano-Germanic civil law. Cases of development of common law into socialist law are unknown because of incompatibility of basic principles of these two systems (common law presumes influential rule-making role of courts while courts in socialist states play a dependent role).\n\nSoviet law displayed many special characteristics that derived from the socialist nature of the Soviet state and reflected Marxist-Leninist ideology. Vladimir Lenin accepted the Marxist conception of the law and the state as instruments of coercion in the hands of the bourgeoisie and postulated the creation of popular, informal tribunals to administer revolutionary justice. One of the main theoreticians of Soviet socialist legality in this early phase was Pēteris Stučka.\n\nAlongside this utopian trend was one more critical of the concept of \"proletarian justice\", represented by Evgeny Pashukanis. A dictatorial trend developed that advocated the use of law and legal institutions to suppress all opposition to the regime. This trend reached its zenith under Joseph Stalin with the ascendancy of Andrey Vyshinsky, when the administration of justice was carried out mainly by the security police in special tribunals.\n\nDuring the de-Stalinization of the Nikita Khrushchev era, a new trend developed, based on socialist legality, that stressed the need to protect the procedural and statutory rights of citizens, while still calling for obedience to the state. New legal codes, introduced in 1960, were part of the effort to establish legal norms in administering laws. Although socialist legality remained in force after 1960, the dictatorial and utopian trends continued to influence the legal process. Persecution of political and religious dissenters continued, but at the same time there was a tendency to decriminalize lesser offenses by handing them over to people's courts and administrative agencies and dealing with them by education rather than by incarceration.\nBy late 1986, the Mikhail Gorbachev era was stressing anew the importance of individual rights in relation to the state and criticizing those who violated procedural law in implementing Soviet justice. This signaled a resurgence of socialist legality as the dominant trend. Socialist legality itself still lacked features associated with Western jurisprudence.\n\nSocialist law is similar to common law or civil law but with a greatly increased public law sector and decreased private law sector.\n\n\nA specific institution characteristic to Socialist law was the so-called burlaw court (or, verbally, \"court of comrades\", Russian товарищеский суд) which decided on minor offences.\n\nAmong the remaining communist governments, some (most notably the People's Republic of China) have added extensive modifications to their legal systems. In general, this is a result of their market-oriented economic changes. However, some communist influence can still be seen. For example, in Chinese real estate law there is no unified concept of real property; the state owns all land but often not the structures that sit on that land. A rather complex \"ad hoc\" system of use rights to land property has developed, and these use rights are the things being officially traded (rather than the property itself). In some cases (for example in the case of urban residential property), the system results in something that resembles real property transactions in other legal systems.\n\nIn other cases, the Chinese system results in something quite different. For example, it is a common misconception that reforms under Deng Xiaoping resulted in the privatization of agricultural land and a creation of a land tenure system similar to those found in Western countries. In actuality, the village committee owns the land and contracts the right to use this land to individual farmers who may use the land to make money from agriculture. Hence the rights that are normally unified in Western economies are split up between the individual farmer and the village committee.\n\nThis has a number of consequences. One of them is that, because the farmer does not have an absolute right to transfer the land, he cannot borrow against his use rights. On the other hand, there is some insurance against risk in the system, in that the farmer can return his land to the village committee if he wants to stop farming and start some other sort of business. Then, if this business does not work, he can get a new contract with the village committee and return to farming. The fact that the land is redistributable by the village committee also ensures that no one is left landless; this creates a form of social welfare.\n\nThere have been a number of proposals to reform this system and they have tended to be in the direction of fully privatizing rural land for the alleged purpose of increasing efficiency. These proposals have usually not received any significant support, largely because of the popularity of the current system among the farmers themselves. There is little risk that the village committee will attempt to impose a bad contract on the farmers, since this would reduce the amount of money the village committee receives. At the same time, the farmer has some flexibility to decide to leave farming for other ventures and to return at a later time.\n\n"}
{"id": "39653582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39653582", "title": "Spherical basis", "text": "Spherical basis\n\nIn pure and applied mathematics, particularly quantum mechanics and computer graphics and their applications, a spherical basis is the basis used to express spherical tensors. The spherical basis closely relates to the description of angular momentum in quantum mechanics and spherical harmonic functions.\n\nWhile spherical polar coordinates are one orthogonal coordinate system for expressing vectors and tensors using polar and azimuthal angles and radial distance, the spherical basis are constructed from the standard basis and use complex numbers.\n\nA vector A in 3D Euclidean space can be expressed in the familiar Cartesian coordinate system in the standard basis e, e, e, and coordinates \"A\", \"A\", \"A\":\n\nor any other coordinate system with associated basis set of vectors. From this extend the scalars to allow multiplication by complex numbers, so that we are now working in formula_1 rather than formula_2.\n\nIn the spherical bases denoted e, e, e, and associated coordinates with respect to this basis, denoted \"A\", \"A\", \"A\", the vector A is:\n\nwhere the spherical basis vectors can be defined in terms of the Cartesian basis using complex-valued coefficients in the \"xy\" plane:\n\n\\mathbf{e}_{-} & = +\\frac{1}{\\sqrt{2}}\\mathbf{e}_x - \\frac{i}{\\sqrt{2}}\\mathbf{e}_y \\\\\n\nin which \"i\" denotes the imaginary unit, and one normal to the plane in the \"z\" direction:\n\nThe inverse relations are:\n\n\\mathbf{e}_y & = + \\frac{i}{\\sqrt{2}} \\mathbf{e}_+ + \\frac{i}{\\sqrt{2}}\\mathbf{e}_{-} \\\\\n\\mathbf{e}_z & = \\mathbf{e}_0\n\nWhile giving a basis in a 3-dimensional space is a valid definition for a spherical tensor, it only covers the case for when the rank formula_4 is 1. For higher ranks, one may use either the commutator, or rotation definition of a spherical tensor. The commutator definition is given below, any operator formula_5 that satisfies the following relations is a spherical tensor :\nformula_6\nformula_7\n\nAnalogously to how the spherical harmonics transform under a rotation, a general spherical tensor transforms as follows, when the states transform under the unitary Wigner D-matrix formula_8, where is a (3×3 rotation) group element in SO(3). That is, these matrices represent the rotation group elements. With the help of its Lie algebra, one can show these two definitions are equivalent. \n\nFor the spherical basis, the coordinates are complex-valued numbers \"A\", \"A\", \"A\", and can be found by substitution of () into (), or directly calculated from the inner product , ():\n\nA_{-} & = \\left\\langle \\mathbf{e}_{-}, \\mathbf{A} \\right\\rangle = +\\frac{A_x}{\\sqrt{2}} + \\frac{iA_y}{\\sqrt{2}} \\\\\n\nwith inverse relations:\n\nA_y & = - \\frac{i}{\\sqrt{2}} A_+ - \\frac{i}{\\sqrt{2}} A_{-} \\\\\nA_z & = A_0\n\nIn general, for two vectors with complex coefficients in the same real-valued orthonormal basis e, with the property e·e = \"δ\", the inner product is:\n\nwhere · is the usual dot product and the complex conjugate * must be used to keep the magnitude (or \"norm\") of the vector positive definite.\n\nThe spherical basis is an orthonormal basis, since the inner product , () of every pair vanishes meaning the basis vectors are all mutually orthogonal:\n\nand each basis vector is a unit vector:\n\nhence the need for the normalizing factors of 1/.\n\nThe defining relations () can be summarized by a transformation matrix U:\n\nwith inverse:\n\nIt can be seen that U is a unitary matrix, in other words its Hermitian conjugate U (complex conjugate and matrix transpose) is also the inverse matrix U.\n\nFor the coordinates:\n\nand inverse:\n\nTaking cross products of the spherical basis vectors, we find an obvious relation:\n\nwhere \"q\" is a placeholder for +, −, 0, and two less obvious relations:\n\nThe inner product between two vectors A and B in the spherical basis follows from the above definition of the inner product:\n\n"}
{"id": "48258204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48258204", "title": "Strangulation (domestic violence)", "text": "Strangulation (domestic violence)\n\nStrangulation in the context of domestic violence is a potentially lethal form of assault. Unconsciousness may occur within seconds of strangulation and death within minutes. Strangulation can be difficult to detect and until recently was often not treated as a serious crime. However, in many jurisdictions strangulation is now a specific criminal offense, or an aggravating factor in assault cases.\n\nAlthough sometimes the words are used interchangeably, \"strangulation\" and \"choking\" are not the same thing. Choking is when air flow is blocked by food or a foreign object in the trachea – something that can be addressed by the Heimlich maneuver. Strangulation, by contrast, is defined by reduced air flow and/or blood flow to or from the brain via the intentional external compression of blood vessels or the airway in the neck. Notably, however, many victims of strangulation refer to the assault as \"choking\".\n\nManual strangulation (i.e., gripping the throat with one’s hands) is the most common method of strangulation in intimate partner violence, although ligatures (e.g., belts, scarves) are sometimes used.\n\nA systematic review of 23 articles based on 11 surveys in 9 countries (N=74,785, about two-thirds of whom were women) found that 3.0% to 9.7% of women reported that they had at some time been strangled by an intimate partner. A total of 0.4% to 2.4% – with 1.0% being typical – reported that they had experienced it in the past year, and women were between 2 times and 14 times more likely to be strangled by an intimate partner than were men.\n\nThe most recent national survey in the U.S. that asked about strangulation by an intimate partner asked 16,507 adults (55% of whom were women) if a partner had tried to hurt them by choking or suffocating them. A total of 9.7% responded that a partner had done so at some point in their lifetime; 0.9% reported that it had happened during the past year.\n\nThe prevalence of strangulation appears to be decreasing in Canada, the only country with multiple cross-sectional surveys that measure strangulation.\n\nThe first major study of surviving victims of strangulation assault found that 99% of the 300 victims in criminal cases involving \"choking\" were female. In 2000, a meta-analytic review of gender differences in physical aggression against a heterosexual partner concluded that \". ..'choke or strangle' is very clearly a male act, whether based on self- or partner reports.\" A similar conclusion was reached in a 2014 multi-nation review: \"…women are more likely than men to report that they were strangled by an intimate partner.\"\n\nA series of studies conducted in Canada found the same gender discrepancy and reported that strangulation by an intimate is more common among disabled persons, cohabiting (vs. married) persons, and those in a step- (vs. biological) family. Women who had been abused by an intimate partner reported higher rates of strangulation.\n\nStrangulation is sometimes fatal. According to a large U.S. case control study, prior strangulation is a substantial and unique predictor of attempted and completed homicide of women by a male intimate partner. The study showed that the odds of becoming an attempted homicide victim increased 7-fold and the odds of becoming a homicide victim increased 8-fold for women who had been strangled by their partner. When over three dozen other characteristics of the victim, perpetrator, and incident were taken into account, however, strangulation no longer was a unique predictor. Strangulation is so common in battering (50% or more battered women report that they've been strangled) that it doesn't differentiate abuse in which the victim survives or dies.\n\nStrangulation has been likened to drowning and researchers at the University of Pennsylvania have likened non- or near-fatal strangulation to water boarding, which is widely considered a form of torture.\n\nA special issue of the \"Domestic Violence Report\" devoted to the crime of strangulation states: \"Many domestic violence offenders and rapists do not strangle their partners to kill them; they strangle them to let them know they can kill them—any time they wish. Once victims know this truth, they live under the power and control of their abusers day in and day out.\"\n\nStrangulation can produce minor injuries, serious bodily injury, and death. Evidence of the assault can be difficult to detect because many victims may not have visible injuries and/or their symptoms may be nonspecific.\n\nVictims may have internal injuries, such as laryngo-tracheal injuries, digestive tract injuries, vascular injuries, neurological system injuries and orthopedic injuries. Clinical symptoms of these internal injuries may include neck and sore-throat pain, voice changes (hoarse or raspy voice or the inability to speak), coughing, swallowing abnormalities, and changes in mental status, consciousness and behavior. Neurological symptoms may include vision changes, dimming, blurring, decrease of peripheral vision and seeing \"stars\" or \"flashing lights.\" Post-anoxic encephalopathy, psychosis, seizures, amnesia, cerebrovascular accident and progressive dementia may be indicative of neuropsychiatric effects.\n\nSigns of life-threatening or near fatal strangulation may include sight impairment, loss of consciousness, urinary or fecal incontinence and petechiae (pinpoint hemorrhages). Even victims with seemingly minimal injuries and/or symptoms may die hours, days, or weeks later because of progressive, irreversible encephalopathy.\n\nSome visible signs of strangulation a victim should look for are injuries to their face, eyes, ears, nose, mouth, chin, neck, head, scalp, chest and shoulders, including: redness, scratches or abrasions, fingernail impressions in the skin, deep fingernail claw marks, ligature marks (\"rope burns\"), thumbprint-shaped bruises, blood-red eyes, pinpoint red spots called \"petechiae\" or blue fingernails.\n\nFor many years across the country, prosecutors have failed to treat non- and near-fatal strangulation assaults as serious crimes, largely due to the lack of physical evidence. Because of involvement of the medical profession, specialized training for police and prosecutors, and ongoing research, strangulation has become a focus of policymakers and professionals working to reduce intimate partner violence and sexual assault..\n\nAs of November 2014, 44 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, the federal government and two territories have some form of strangulation or impending breathing statute. Twenty-three states and one territory have enacted legislation making strangulation a felony. One state legislature, Utah, passed a joint resolution which made legislative findings that can help prosecutors apply existing assault statutes with a special emphasis on non-fatal strangulation assaults. In 2013, Congress re-authorized the Violence Against Women Act and added, for the first time, strangulation and suffocation as a specific federal felony.\n\nStarting in 1995, the work of Gael Strack and Casey Gwinn in San Diego has helped identify and address challenges in detecting, investigating, and prosecuting strangulation and suffocation offenses in intimate partner violence, sexual assault, elder abuse, and child abuse cases. In 2011, Strack and Gwinn created the Training Institute on Strangulation Prevention, the most comprehensive training program in the United States for the documentation, investigation, and prosecution of non and near-fatal strangulation assaults. They have published multiple state-specific books to guide the investigation and prosecution of non and near-fatal strangulation assaults. Published appellate opinions have begun to proliferate across the United States as courts are upholding felony strangulation convictions even with minimal external visible injury to the victims. The importance of multi-disciplinary responses by doctors, nurses, advocates, police officers, and prosecutors has become clear in properly identifying, treating, investigating, and prosecuting strangulation assaults.\n"}
{"id": "2799787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2799787", "title": "Subjective constancy", "text": "Subjective constancy\n\nSubjective constancy or perceptual constancy is the perception of an object or quality as constant even though our sensation of the object changes. While the physical characteristics of an object may not change, in an attempt to deal with our external world, our perceptual system has mechanisms that adjust to the stimulus.\n\nThere are several types of perceptual constancies in visual perception:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27631", "title": "Subset", "text": "Subset\n\nIn mathematics, a set \"A\" is a subset of a set \"B\", or equivalently \"B\" is a superset of \"A\", if \"A\" is \"contained\" inside \"B\", that is, all elements of \"A\" are also elements of \"B\". \"A\" and \"B\" may coincide. The relationship of one set being a subset of another is called inclusion or sometimes containment. \"A\" is a subset of \"B\" may also be expressed as \"B\" includes \"A\"; or \"A\" is included in \"B\".\n\nThe subset relation defines a partial order on sets.\n\nThe algebra of subsets forms a Boolean algebra in which the subset relation is called inclusion.\n\nIf \"A\" and \"B\" are sets and every element of \"A\" is also an element of \"B\", then:\nIf \"A\" is a subset of \"B\", but \"A\" is not equal to \"B\" (i.e. there exists at least one element of B which is not an element of \"A\"), then \n\nFor any set \"S\", the inclusion relation ⊆ is a partial order on the set formula_5 of all subsets of \"S\" (the power set of \"S\") defined by formula_6. We may also partially order formula_5 by reverse set inclusion by defining formula_8 \n\nWhen quantified, is represented as: }.\n\n\n\n\nSome authors use the symbols ⊂ and ⊃ to indicate \"subset\" and \"superset\" respectively; that is, with the same meaning and instead of the symbols, ⊆ and ⊇. So for example, for these authors, it is true of every set \"A\" that .\n\nOther authors prefer to use the symbols ⊂ and ⊃ to indicate \"proper\"(also called strict) subset and \"proper\" superset respectively; that is, with the same meaning and instead of the symbols, ⊊ and ⊋. This usage makes ⊆ and ⊂ analogous to the inequality symbols ≤ and <. For example, if then \"x\" may or may not equal \"y\", but if , then \"x\" definitely does not equal \"y\", and \"is\" less than \"y\". Similarly, using the convention that ⊂ is proper subset, if , then \"A\" may or may not equal \"B\", but if , then \"A\" definitely does not equal \"B\".\n\n\nAnother example in an Euler diagram:\n\nInclusion is the canonical partial order in the sense that every partially ordered set (\"X\", formula_12) is isomorphic to some collection of sets ordered by inclusion. The ordinal numbers are a simple example—if each ordinal \"n\" is identified with the set [\"n\"] of all ordinals less than or equal to \"n\", then \"a\" ≤ \"b\" if and only if [\"a\"] ⊆ [\"b\"].\n\nFor the power set formula_5 of a set \"S\", the inclusion partial order is (up to an order isomorphism) the Cartesian product of \"k\" = |\"S\"| (the cardinality of \"S\") copies of the partial order on {0,1} for which 0 < 1. This can be illustrated by enumerating \"S\" = {\"s\", \"s\", …, \"s\"} and associating with each subset \"T\" ⊆ \"S\" (which is to say with each element of 2) the \"k\"-tuple from {0,1} of which the \"i\"th coordinate is 1 if and only if \"s\" is a member of \"T\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53961341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53961341", "title": "Supersymmetric theory of stochastic dynamics", "text": "Supersymmetric theory of stochastic dynamics\n\nSupersymmetric theory of stochastic dynamics or stochastics (STS) is an exact theory of stochastic (partial) differential equations (SDEs), the class of mathematical models with the widest applicability covering, in particular, all continuous time dynamical systems, with and without noise. The main utility of the theory from the physical point of view is a rigorous theoretical explanation of the ubiquitous spontaneous long-range dynamical behavior that manifests itself across disciplines via such phenomena as 1/f, flicker, and crackling noises and the power-law statistics, or Zipf's law, of instantonic processes like earthquakes and neuroavalanches. From the mathematical point of view, STS is interesting because it bridges the two major parts of mathematical physics – the dynamical systems theory and topological field theories. Besides these and related disciplines such as algebraic topology and supersymmetric field theories, STS is also connected with the traditional theory of stochastic differential equations and the theory of pseudo-Hermitian operators.\n\nThe theory begun with the application of BRST gauge fixing procedure to Langevin SDEs, that was later adapted to classical mechanics and its stochastic generalization, higher-order Langevin SDEs, and, more recently, to SDEs of arbitrary form, which allowed to link BRST formalism to the concept of transfer operators and recognize spontaneous breakdown of BRST supersymmetry as a stochastic generalization of dynamical chaos.\n\nThe main idea of the theory is to study, instead of trajectories, the SDE-defined temporal evolution of differential forms. This evolution has an intrinsic BRST or topological supersymmetry representing the preservation of topology and/or the concept of proximity in the phase space by continuous time dynamics. The theory identifies a model as chaotic, in the generalized, stochastic sense, if its ground state is not supersymmetric, i.e., if the supersymmetry is broken spontaneously. Accordingly, the emergent long-range behavior that always accompanies dynamical chaos and its derivatives such as turbulence and self-organized criticality can be understood as a consequence of the Goldstone theorem.\n\nThe first relation between supersymmetry and stochastic dynamics was established by Giorgio Parisi and Nicolas Sourlas who demonstrated that the application of the BRST gauge fixing procedure to Langevin SDEs, i.e., to SDEs with linear phase spaces, gradient flow vector fields, and additive noises, results in N=2 supersymmetric models. Since then, the so-emerged supersymmetry of Langevin SDEs has been studied rather extensively. Relations between this supersymmetry and a few physical concepts have been established including the fluctuation dissipation theorems, Jarzynski equality, Onsager principle of microscopic reversibility, solutions of Fokker-Planck equations, self-organization, etc.\n\nSimilar approach was used to establish that classical mechanics, its stochastic generalization, and higher-order Langevin SDEs also have supersymmetric representations. Real dynamical systems, however, are never purely Langevin or classical mechanical. In addition, physically meaningful Langevin SDEs never break supersymmetry spontaneously. Therefore, for the purpose of the identification of the spontaneous supersymmetry breaking as dynamical chaos, the generalization of the Parisi-Sourlas approach to SDEs of general form is needed. This generalization could come only after a rigorous formulation of the theory of pseudo-Hermitian operators because the stochastic evolution operator is pseudo-Hermitian in the general case. Such generalization showed that all SDEs possess N=1 BRST or topological supersymmetry (TS) and this finding completes the story of relation between supersymmetry and SDEs.\n\nIn parallel to the BRST procedure approach to SDEs, mathematicians working in the dynamical systems theory introduced and studied the concept of generalized transfer operator defined for random dynamical systems. This concept underlies the most important object of the STS, the stochastic evolution operator, and provides it with a solid mathematical meaning.\n\nSTS has a close relation with algebraic topology and its topological sector belongs to the class of models known as Witten-type topological or cohomological field theory. As a supersymmetric theory, BRST procedure approach to SDEs can be viewed as one of the realizations of the concept of Nicolai map.\n\nIn the context of supersymmetric approach to stochastic dynamics, the term Langevin SDEs denotes SDEs with Euclidean phase space, formula_1, gradient flow vector field, and additive Gaussian white noise,\n\nformula_2where formula_3 , formula_4is the noise variable, formula_5 is the noise intensity, and formula_6, which in coordinates formula_7 and formula_8, is the gradient flow vector field with formula_9 being the Langevin function often interpreted as the energy of the purely dissipative stochastic dynamical system.\n\nThe Parisi-Sourlas method is a way of construction of the path integral representation of the Langevin SDE. It can be thought of as a BRST gauge fixing procedure that uses the Langevin SDE as a gauge condition. Namely, one considers the following functional integral,\n\nformula_10\n\nwhere formula_11 denotes the r.h.s. of the Langevin SDE, formula_12 is the operation of stochastic averaging with formula_13 being the normalized distribution of noise configurations,\n\nformula_14\n\nis the Jacobian of the corresponding functional derivative, and the path integration is over all closed paths, formula_15, where formula_16 and formula_17are the initial and final moments of temporal evolution.\n\nTopological aspects of the Parisi-Sourlas construction can be briefly outlined in the following manner. The delta-functional, i.e., the collection of the infinite number of delta-functions, ensures that only solutions of the Langevin SDE contribute to formula_18. In the context of BRST procedure, these solutions can be viewed as Gribov copies. Each solution contributes either positive or negative unity: formula_19with formula_20 being the index of the so-called Nicolai map, formula_21, which in this case is the map from the space of closed paths in formula_22 to the space of noise configurations, a map that provides a noise configuration at which a given closed path is a solution of the Langevin SDE. formula_23 can be viewed as a realization of Poincaré–Hopf theorem on the infinite-dimensional space of close paths with the Langevin SDE playing the role of the vector field and with the solutions of Langevin SDE playing the role of the critical points with index formula_24. formula_23 is independent of the noise configuration because it is of topological character. The same it true for its stochastic average, formula_18, which is not the partition function of the model but, instead, its Witten index.\n\nWith the help of a standard field theoretic technique that involves introduction of additional field called Lagrange multiplier, formula_27, and a pair of fermionic fields called Faddeev–Popov ghosts, formula_28, the Witten index can be given the following form,\n\nformula_29\n\nwhere formula_30 denotes collection of all the fields, p.b.c. stands for periodic boundary conditions, the so-called gauge fermion, formula_31, with formula_32 and formula_33, and the BRST symmetry defined via its action on arbitrary functional formula_34 as formula_35. In the BRST formalism, the Q-exact pieces like, formula_36, serve as gauge fixing tools. Therefore, the path integral expression for formula_18 can be interpreted as a model whose action contains nothing else but the gauge fixing term. This is a definitive feature of Witten-type topological field theories and in this particular case of BRST procedure approach to SDEs, the BRST symmetry can be also recognized as the topological supersymmetry.\n\nA common way to explain the BRST procedure is to say that the BRST symmetry generates the fermionic version of the gauge transformations, whereas its overall effect on the path integral is to limit the integration only to configurations that satisfy a specified gauge condition. This interpretation also applies to Parisi-Sourlas approach with the deformations of the trajectory and the Langevin SDE playing the roles of the gauge transformations and the gauge condition respectively.\n\nPhysical fermions in the high-energy physics and condensed matter models have antiperiodic boundary conditions in time. The unconventional periodic boundary conditions for fermions in the path integral expression for the Witten index is the origin of the topological character of this object. These boundary conditions reveal themselves in the operator representation of the Witten index as the alternating sign operator,formula_38where formula_39 is the operator of the number of ghosts/fermions and the finite-time stochastic evolution operator (SEO), formula_40, where, formula_41is the infinitesimal SEO with formula_42 being the Lie derivative along the subscript vector field, formula_43 being the Laplacian, formula_44 being the exterior derivative, which is the operator representative of the TS, and formula_45, where formula_46 and formula_47 are bosonic and fermionic momenta, and with square brackets denoting bi-graded commutator, i.e., it is an anticommutator if both operators are fermionic (contain odd total number of formula_48's and formula_49's) and a commutator otherwise. The exterior derivative and formula_50 are supercharges. They are nilpotent, e.g., formula_51, and commutative with the SEO. In other words, Langevin SDEs possess N=2 supersymmetry. The fact that formula_50 is a supercharge is accidental. For SDEs of arbitrary form, this is not true.\n\nThe wavefunctions are functions not only of the bosonic variables, formula_53, but also of the Grassmann numbers or fermions, formula_54, from the tangent space of formula_55. The wavefunctions can be viewed as differential forms on formula_55 with the fermions playing the role of the differentials formula_57. The concept of infinitesimal SEO generalizes the Fokker–Planck operator, which is essentially the SEO acting on top differential forms that have the meaning of the total probability distributions. Differential forms of lesser degree can be interpreted, at least locally on formula_55, as conditional probability distributions. Viewing the spaces of differential forms of all degrees as wavefunctions of the model is a mathematical necessity. Without it, the Witten index representing the most fundamental object of the model—the partition function of the noise—would not exist and the dynamical partition function would not represent the number of fixed points of the SDE (see below). The most general understanding of the wavefunctions is the coordinate-free objects that contain information not only on trajectories but also on the evolution of the differentials and/or Lyapunov exponents.\n\nIn Ref., a model has been introduced that can be viewed as a 1D prototype of the topological nonlinear sigma models (TNSM), a subclass of the Witten-type topological field theories. The 1D TNSM is defined for Riemannian phase spaces while for Euclidean phase spaces it reduces to the Parisi-Sourlas model. Its key difference from STS is the diffusion operator which is the Hodge Laplacian for 1D TNSM and formula_59for STS . This difference in unimportant in the context of relation between STS and algebraic topology, the relation established by the theory of 1D TNSM (see, e.g., Refs.).\n\nThe model is defined by the following evolution operator formula_60, where formula_61 with formula_62 being the metric, formula_63 is the Hodge Laplacian, and the differential forms from the exterior algebra of the phase space, formula_64, are viewed as wavefunctions. There exists a similarity transformation, formula_65, that brings the evolution operator to the explicitly Hermitian form formula_66 with formula_67. In the Euclidean case, formula_68 is the Hamiltonian of a N=2 supersymmetric quantum mechanics. One can introduce two Hermitian operators, formula_69 and formula_70, such that formula_71 . This demonstrates that the spectrum of formula_68 and/or formula_73 is real and nonnegative. This is also true for SEOs of Langevin SDEs. For the SDEs of arbitrary form, however, this is no longer true as the eigenvalues of the SEO can be negative and even complex, which actually allows for the TS to be broken spontanenously.\n\nThe following properties of the evolution operator of 1D TNSM hold even for the SEO of the SDEs of arbitrary form. The evolution operator commutes with the operator of the degree of differential forms. As a result, formula_74, where formula_75 and formula_76 is the space of differential forms of degree formula_77. Furthermore, due to the presence of TS, formula_78, where formula_79 are the supersymmetric eigenstates, formula_80, non-trivial in de Rham cohomology whereas the rest are the pairs of non-supersymmetric eigenstates of the form formula_81 and formula_82. All supersymmetric eigenstates have exactly zero eigenvalue and, barring accidental situations, all non-supersymmetric states have non-zero eigenvalues. Non-supersymmetric pairs of eigenstates do not contribute to the Witten index, which equals the difference in the numbers of the supersymmetric states of even and odd degrees, formula_83For compact formula_84, each de Rham cohomology class provides one supersymmetric eigenstate and the Witten index equals the Euler characteristic of the phase space.\n\nThe Parisi-Sourlas method of BRST procedure approach to Langevin SDEs have also been adapted to classical mechanics, stochastic generalization of classical mechanics, higher order Langevin SDEs, and, more recently, to SDEs of arbitrary form. While there exist standard techniques that allow to consider models with colored noises, higher-dimensional \"base spaces\" described by partial SDEs etc., the key elements of STS can be discussed using the following basic class of SDEs, formula_85where formula_86 is a point in the phase space assumed for simplicity a closed topological manifold, formula_87 is a sufficiently smooth vector field, called flow vector field, from the tangent space of formula_88, and formula_89 is a set of sufficiently smooth vector fields that specify how the system is coupled to the noise, which is called additive/multiplicative depending on whether formula_90's are independent/dependent on the position on formula_55.\n\nBRST gauge fixing procedure goes along the same lines as in case of Langevin SDEs. The topological interpretation of the BRST procedure is just the same and the path integral representation of the Witten index is defined by the gauge fermion, formula_92, given by the same expression but with the generalized version offormula_93. There is one important subtlety, however, that appears on the way to the operator representation of the model. Unlike for Langevin SDEs, classical mechanics, and other SDEs with additive noises, the path integral representation of the finite-time SEO is an ambiguous object. This ambiguity originates from non-commutativity of momenta and position operators, e.g., formula_94. As a result, formula_95 in the path integral representation has a whole one-parameter family of possible interpretations in the operator representation, formula_96, where formula_97 denotes an arbitrary wavefunction. Accordingly, there is a whole formula_98-family of infinitesimal SEOs, formula_99with formula_100, formula_101 being the interior multiplication by the subscript vector field, and the \"shifted\" flow vector field being formula_102. Noteworthy, unlike in Langevin SDEs, formula_103 is not a supercharge and STS cannot be identified as a N=2 supersymmetric theory in the general case.\n\nThe path integral representation of stochastic dynamics is equivalent to the traditional understanding of SDEs as of a continuous time limit of stochastic difference equations where different choices of parameter formula_104 are called \"interpretations\" of SDEs. The choice formula_105, for which formula_106 and which is known in quantum theory as Weyl symmetrization rule, is known as the Stratonovich interpretation, whereas formula_107 as the Ito interpretation. While in quantum theory the Weyl symmetrization is preferred because it guaranties hermiticity of Hamiltonians, in STS the Weyl-Stratonovich approach is preferred because it corresponds to the most natural mathematical meaning of the finite-time SEO discussed below—the stochastically averaged pullback induced by the SDE-defined diffeomorphisms.\n\nAs compared to the SEO of Langevin SDEs, the SEO of a general form SDE is pseudo-Hermitian. As a result, the eigenvalues of non-supersymmetric eigenstates are not restricted to be real positive, whereas the eigenvalues of supersymmetric eigenstates are still exactly zero. Just like for Langevin SDEs and nonlinear sigma model, the structure of the eigensystem of the SEO reestablishes the topological character of the Witten index: the contributions from the non-supersymmetric pairs of eigenstates vanish and only supersymmetric states contribute the Euler characteristic of (closed) formula_88. Among other properties of the SEO spectra is that formula_109 and formula_110 never break TS, i.e., formula_111. As a result, there are three major types of the SEO spectra presented in the figure on the right. The two types that have negative (real parts of) eigenvalues correspond to the spontaneously broken TS. All types of the SEO spectra are realizable as can be established, e.g., from the exact relation between the theory of kinematic dynamo and STS.\n\nThe finite-time SEO can be obtained in another, more mathematical way based on the idea to study the SDE-induced actions on differential forms directly, without going through the BRST gauge fixing procedure. The so-obtained finite-time SEO is known in dynamical systems theory as the generalized transfer operator and it has also been used in the classical theory of SDEs (see, e.g., Refs. ). The contribution to this construction from STS is the exposition of the supersymmetric structure underlying it and establishing its relation to the BRST procedure for SDEs.\n\nNamely, for any configuration of the noise, formula_112, and an initial condition, formula_113, SDE defines a unique solution/trajectory, formula_114. Even for noise configurations that are non-differentiable with respect to time, formula_115, the solution is differentiable with respect to the initial condition, formula_116. In other words, SDE defines the family of the noise-configuration-dependent diffeomorphisms of the phase space to itself, formula_117. This object can be understood as a collection and/or definition of all the noise-configuration-dependent trajectories, formula_118. The diffeomorphisms induce actions or pullbacks, formula_119. Unlike, say, trajectories in formula_55, pullbacks are linear objects even for nonlinear formula_55. Linear objects can be averaged and averaging formula_122 over the noise configurations, formula_112, results in the finite-time SEO which is unique and corresponds to the Weyl-Stratonovich interpretation of the BRST procedure approach to SDEs, formula_124.\n\nWithin this definition of the finite-time SEO, the Witten index can be recognized as the sharp trace of the generalized transfer operator. It also links the Witten index to the Lefschetz index,formula_125, a topological constant that equals the Euler characteristic of the (closed) phase space. Namely, formula_126.\n\nThe N=2 supersymmetry of Langevin SDEs has been linked to the Onsager principle of microscopic reversibility and Jarzynski equality. In classical mechanics, a relation between the corresponding N=2 supersymmetry and ergodicity has been proposed. In general form SDEs, where physical arguments may not be applicable, a lower level explanation of the TS is available. This explanation is based on understanding of the finite-time SEO as a stochastically averaged pullback of the SDE-defined diffeomorphisms (see subsection above). In this picture, the question of why any SDE has TS is the same as the question of why exterior derivative commutes with the pullback of any diffeomorphism. The answer to this question is differentiability of the corresponding map. In other words, the presence of TS is the algebraic version of the statement that continuous-time flow preserves continuity of formula_55. Two initially close points will remain close during evolution, which is just yet another way of saying that formula_128 is a diffeomorphism.\n\nIn deterministic chaotic models, initially close points can part in the limit of infinitely long temporal evolution. This is the famous butterfly effect, which is equivalent to the statement that formula_128 losses differentiability in this limit. In algebraic representation of dynamics, the evolution in the infinitely long time limit is described by the ground state of the SEO and the butterfly effect is equivalent to the spontaneous breakdown of TS, i.e., to the situation when the ground state is not supersymmetric. Noteworthy, unlike traditional understanding of deterministic chaotic dynamics, the spontaneous breakdown of TS works also for stochastic cases. This is the most important generalization because deterministic dynamics is, in fact, a mathematical idealization. Real dynamical systems cannot be isolated from their environments and thus always experience stochastic influence.\n\nBRST gauge fixing procedure applied to SDEs leads directly to the Witten index. The Witten index is of topological character and it does not respond to any perturbation. In particular, all response correlators calculated using the Witten index vanish. This fact has a physical interpretation within the STS: the physical meaning of the Witten index is the partition function of the noise and since there is no backaction from the dynamical system to the noise, the Witten index has no information on the details of the SDE. In contrast, the information on the details of the model is contained in the other trace-like object of the theory, the dynamical partition function, formula_130where a.p.b.c. denotes antiperiodic boundary conditions for the fermionic fields and periodic boundary conditions for bosonic fields. In the standard manner, the dynamical partition function can be promoted to the generating functional by coupling the model to external probing fields.\n\nFor a wide class of models, dynamical partition function provides lower bound for the stochastically averaged number of fixed points of the SDE-defined diffeomorphisms,formula_131Here, index formula_132 runs over \"physical states\", i.e., the eigenstates that grow fastest with the rate of the exponential growth given as,formula_133, and parameter formula_134 can be viewed as stochastic version of dynamical entropy such as topological entropy. Positive entropy is one of the key signatures of deterministic chaos. Therefore, the situation with positive formula_135 must be identified as chaotic in the generalized, stochastic sense as it implies positive entropy: formula_136. At the same time, positive formula_135 implies that TS is broken spontaneously, that is, the ground state in not supersymmetric because its eigenvalue is not zero. In other words, positive dynamical entropy is a reason to identify spontaneous TS breaking as the stochastic generalization of the concept of dynamical chaos. Noteworthy, Langevin SDEs are never chaotic because the spectrum of their SEO is real non-negative.\n\nThe complete list of reasons why spontaneous TS breaking must be viewed as the stochastic generalization of the concept of dynamical chaos is as follows. \nAll the above features of TS breaking work for both deterministic and stochastic models. This is in contrast with the traditional deterministic chaos whose trajectory-based properties such as the topological mixing cannot in principle be generalized to stochastic case because, just like in quantum dynamics, all trajectories are possible in the presence of noise and, say, the topological mixing property is satisfied trivially by all models with non-zero noise intensity.\n\nThe topological sector of STS can be recognized as a member of the Witten-type topological field theories. In other words, some objects in STS are of topological character with the Witten index being the most famous example. There are other classes of topological objects. One class of objects is related to instantons, i.e., transient dynamics. Crumpling paper, protein folding, and many other nonlinear dynamical processes in response to quenches, i.e., to external (sudden) changes of parameters, can be recognized as instantonic dynamics. From the mathematical point of view, instantons are families of solutions of deterministic equations of motion, formula_140, that lead from, say, less stable fixed point of formula_139 to a more stable fixed point. Certain matrix elements calculated on instantons are of topological nature. An example of such matrix elements can be defined for a pair of critical points, formula_142 and formula_143, with formula_144 being more stable than formula_145,formula_146Here formula_147 and formula_148 are the bra and ket of the corresponding perturbative supersymmetric ground states, or vacua, which are the Poincare duals of the local stable and unstable manifolds of the corresponding critical point; formula_149 denotes chronological ordering; formula_150's are observables that are the Poincare duals of some closed submanifolds in formula_84; formula_152 are the observables in the Heisenberg representation with formula_153 being an unimportant reference time moment. The critical points have different indexes of stability so that the states formula_154 and formula_155 are topologically inequivalent as they represent unstable manifolds of different dimensionalities. The above matrix elements are independent of formula_156 as they actually represent the intersection number of formula_157-manifolds on the instanton as exemplified in the figure.\n\nThe above instantonic matrix elements are exact only in the deterministic limit. In the general stochastic case, one can consider global supersymmetric states, formula_158's, from the De Rham cohomology classes of formula_55 and observables, formula_160, that are Poincare duals of closed manifolds non-trivial in homology of formula_55. The following matrix elements, formula_162 are topological invariants representative of the structure of De Rham cohomology ring of formula_84.\n\nSupersymmetric theory of stochastic dynamics can be interesting in different ways. For example, STS offers a promising realization of the concept of supersymmetry. In general, there are two major problems in the context of supersymmetry. The first is establishing connections between this mathematical entity and the real world. Within STS, supersymmetry is the most common symmetry in nature because it is pertinent to all continuous time dynamical systems. The second is the spontaneous breakdown of supersymmetry. This problem is particularly important for particle physics because supersymmetry of elementary particles, if exists at extremely short scale, must be broken spontaneously at large scale. This problem is nontrivial because supersymmetries are hard to break spontaneously, the very reason behind the introduction of soft or explicit supersymmetry breaking. Within STS, spontaneous breakdown of supersymmetry is indeed a nontrivial dynamical phenomenon that has been variously known across disciplines as chaos, turbulence, self-organized criticality etc.\n\nA few more specific applications of STS are as follows.\n\nSTS provides classification for stochastic models depending on whether TS is broken and integrability of flow vector field. In can be exemplified as a part of the general phase diagram at the border of chaos (see figure on the right). The phase diagram has the following properties: \n\nMany sudden (or instantonic) processes in nature, such as, e.g., crackling noise, exhibit scale-free statistics often called the Zipf's law. As an explanation for this peculiar spontaneous dynamical behavior, it was proposed to believe that some stochastic dynamical systems have a tendency to self-tune themselves into a critical point, the phenomenological approach known as self-organized criticality (SOC). STS offers an alternative perspective on this phenomenon. Within STS, SOC is nothing more than dynamics in the N-phase. Specifically, the definitive feature of the N-phase is the peculiar mechanism of the TS breaking. Unlike in the C-phase, where the TS is broken by the non-integrability of the flow, in the \"N\"-phase, the TS is spontaneously broken due to the condensation of the configurations of instantons and noise-induced antiinstantons, i.e., time-reversed instantons. These processes can be roughly interpreted as the noise-induced tunneling events between, e.g., different attractors. Qualitatively, the dynamics in the \"N\"-phase appears to an external observer as a sequence of sudden jumps or \"avalanches\" that must exhibit a scale-free behavior/statistics as a result of the Goldstone theorem. This picture of dynamics in the N-phase is exactly the dynamical behavior that the concept of SOC was designed to explain. In contrast with the original understanding of SOC, its STS interpretation has little to do with the traditional critical phenomena theory where scale-free behavior is associated with unstable fixed points of the renormalization group flow.\n\nMagnetohydrodynamical phenomenon of kinematic dynamo can also be identified as the spontaneous breakdown of TS. This result follows from equivalence between the evolution operator of the magnetic field and the SEO of the corresponding SDE describing the flow of the background matter. The so emerged \"STS-kinematic dynamo\" correspondence proves, in particular, that both types of TS breaking spectra are possible, with the real and complex ground state eigenvalues, because kinematic dynamo with both types of the fastest growing eigenmodes are known.\n\nIt is well known that various types of transient dynamics, such as quenches, exhibit spontaneous long-range behavior. In case of quenches across phase transitions, this behavior is often attributed to the proximity of criticality. At the same time, other quenches, not across a phase transition, are also known to exhibit long-range characteristics with the best known examples being the Barkhausen effect and other realizations of the concept of crackling noise. It is intuitively appealing that theoretical explanation for the scale-free behavior in quenches must be the same disregard whether the quench is across a phase transition or not. STS offers such an explanation. Namely, transient dynamics is essentially a composite instanton and TS is intrinsically broken within instantons. Even though TS breaking within instantons is not exactly the phenomenon of the spontaneous breakdown of a symmetry by a global ground state, this effective TS breaking must also result in a scale-free behavior. This understanding is supported by the fact that condensed instantons lead to appearance of logarithms in the correlation functions. This picture of transient dynamics explains computational efficiency of the digital memcomputing machines.\n\nIn physics, spontaneous symmetry breaking is known as \"ordering\". For example, the spontaneous breakdown of translational symmetry in a liquid is the mathematical essence of crystallization or spatial \"ordering\" of molecules into a lattice. Therefore, spontaneous TS breaking picture of chaotic dynamics is in a certain sense opposite to the semantics of word \"chaos\". Due to its temporal character, it is actually Chronos, not Chaos, that appears to be the primordial Greek deity closest in its spirit to the TS breaking order. Perhaps, a more accurate identifier than \"chaos\" should be coined for TS breaking in the future. As of this moment, this qualitatively new understanding of dynamical chaos already points into a research direction that may lead to resolutions of some important problems such as turbulence and neurodynamics. Namely, as in case of any other \"ordering\", a simplified yet accurate description of chaotic dynamics can be achieved in terms of the low-energy effective theory for an order parameter. While the low-energy effective description of chaotic dynamics may be very case specific, its order parameter must always be a representative of the gapless fermions or goldstinos of the spontaneously broken TS.\n"}
{"id": "12512882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12512882", "title": "Trashion", "text": "Trashion\n\nTrashion (a portmanteau of \"trash\" and \"fashion\") is a term for art, jewellery, fashion and objects for the home created from used, thrown-out, found and repurposed elements. The term was first coined in New Zealand in 2004 and gained in usage through 2005. Trashion is a subgenre of found object art, which is basically using objects that already have some other defined purpose, and turning it into art. In this case, trash is used.\n\nInitially trashion was used to describe art-couture costume usually linked to contests or fashion shows; however, as recycling and 'green' fashion become more prevalent, trashion has taken a turn for the more wearable. The term is now widely used in creative circles to describe any wearable item or accessory that is constructed using all or part materials that have been recycled, including clothing that has been thrifted and reconditioned.\n\nTrashion is a philosophy and an ethic encompassing environmentalism and innovation. Making traditional objects out of recycled materials can be trashion, as can making avant-garde fashion from cast-offs or junk. It springs from a desire to make the best use of limited resources. Trashion is similar to upcycling and refashion, although it began with specific fashion aspirations. Like upcycling, trashion generates items that are valued again, but these may be low-cost or high-cost, perhaps depending on the skill of the artist. The environmental aim of trashion is to call attention to the polluting outcome of waste.\n\nIndigenous people throughout the world have used salvaged materials to create new objects for an indeterminate number of years. Africans have made bags from rice and juice packets, Haitians have made sculptural jewelry from old oil cans, and American settlers have made quilts and rugs from cast-off clothing and feed sacks. People were making something from nothing long before the word \"trashion\" was coined; however, Trashion usually refers to \"making something from nothing\" for aesthetic purposes, not for practical use.\n\nIn the 1990s, American artist Ann Wizer began using plastic waste in her wearable art. Working in the Philippines, and titling her line the 'Virus Project,' Wizer created a set of costumes made entirely from post consumer plastic waste to celebrate Earth Day. The first plastic packaging tote bags were accessories to these costumes. There are now numerous small scale poverty intervention projects throughout Southeast Asia in the process of creating similar trashion accessories and other fashion and homeware items. This includes the XSProject, a charity founded by Wizer and based in Jakarta.\n\nThe Trashion movement took off in New York City in late 2004, early 2005 through underground parties on the lower east side of Manhattan at a club called Plan B. Trashion was part of the fashion of Urban Gypsy Circus, which is an interactive art party thrown by multi-media artist Miz Metro. These parties exhibited art made out of recycled materials and included monthly \"TRASHION FACEOFFS\" where 2 designers would compete to be the \"TRASHION QUEEN\". This led to Matthew Namer & Miz Metro curating the TRASHION Art show at Gallery 151 on exhibit during the summer of 2009 on the lower east side of Manhattan.\n\nTrashion has become a very popular style of art. For example, in 2006, Julia Genatossio launched Monsoon Vermont, a trashion design house. The company designs items such as umbrellas, shower curtains and backpacks which are made from Jakarta's scavenged trash. Unlike the XSProject, Monsoon Vermont is a for-profit venture.\n\nTrashion is also the subject of school projects, local fashion shows, community center exhibits, and fundraisers, among other purposes.\n\nSome contemporary trashion artists include Marina DeBris and Nancy Judd.\n"}
{"id": "54242160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54242160", "title": "UN Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force", "text": "UN Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force\n\nThe UN Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force (CTITF) is an instrument designed to roll out the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.\n\nSince its formation in 2005, the task force has brought forth different initiatives that assist in the Counter Terrorism Strategy including the UN Counter Terrorism Handbook. Its working groups have offered workshops and presented reports that are designed to assist important UN actors, member states and stakeholders in the fight against terrorism.\n\nBefore the CTITF was formed, the Security Council of the UN legally binded all member states through resolutions relating to the United Nations Charter. The resolutions included;\n\nThe United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267, adopted in October 1999 requires the Taliban in Afghanistan to stop providing refuge to terrorist organizations and demand that they cooperate in bringing terrorists to justice. This resolution also imposes aviation actions and financial sanctions on the Taliban. It also established the Security Council Committee.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373, adopted in September 2001 under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. The aims of this resolution is to hinder terrorist actions. This resolution calls on states to adjust national laws to better combat terrorism and focuses on regulating immigration laws to contain the spread of terrorism. It also place legal obligations on member states requiring them to freeze any financial assets of terrorist and supporters, deny travel means or safe havens for terrorists, and prevent their weapon supply and recruitment.\n\nThese resolutions began the formation of branches in the United Nations to combat terrorism.\n\nIn 2005, the Secretary- General Kofi Annan created the United Nations Counter Terrorism Implementation Task Force. It was later endorsed by the General Assembly in 2006 through the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, to ensure that all terrorism units in the UN work together to increase the efficiency and range.\n\nThe Secretary General appoints a senior United Nations official to act as the chair of the task force. The task force is divided into approximately 38 member entities including the World Bank, the Youth Envoy and the World Health Organization (WHO). and INTERPOL. The CTITF is divided into 4 subgroups; the United Nations Security Council, the Secretariat, the Agencies Programmes Funds and Observers. The goal of the CTITF is to maximize each of the entity‘s comparative advantage by delivering as one to help Member States implement the four pillars of the Global Strategy.\n\nThe intent of Counter Terrorism Implementation Task Force is to help states in the UN enforce the 4 building blocks that make up Global Strategy. The four Pillars are;\nThe Counter Terrorism Implementation Task Force is responsible for ensuring all needs of member states in the United Nations are met and policies are supported.\n\nThe status of working groups has implemented a project on harmonized border management, compiling all recent international conventions, and best practices in an applicable, user-friendly format to help interested states build the institutional and procedural mechanisms for an effective border management system A working arrangement on harmonized border management has been completed by the working group. This idea will continue to be maximized through ongoing consultations with member states and international organizations.\n\nEntities of the United Nations Counter Terrorism Implementation Task Force involve;\n\nMobility and processing of people\n\nBecause the processes that allow travel and economic and cultural exchanges is exploited by terrorists, measures that are put in place to prevent terrorism have become explicitly linked to the management and regulation of movement across borders. These measures include implementing passenger integrated border-management systems, issuing secure travel documents, promoting exchange of information among stakeholders, training, and capacity-building. Improving in areas like this can help heighten security and immigration systems while also allowing the cross-border movement of people. Some of these measures are technologically complex, but more basic systems can be achieved in traditional areas of migration- management with a view to enhancing overall capacity\n\nMovement and processing of goods\n\nGlobal trade, as well as the international supply chain are vulnerable to manipulation by terrorists. In order to minimize this vulnerability, a range of measures should be taken, including ensuring receipt of advance electronic cargo information about inbound, outbound and transit shipments; employing a consistent risk-management approach to address threats to cargo security; using non-intrusive detection equipment; promoting cooperation among customs administrations (e.g. by performing outbound inspection of high-risk containers and cargo); and establishing partnerships with the private sector for the implementation of secure practices at every stage of the supply chain, through Authorized Economic Operator (AEO). The implementation of these and other measures is key in order to maximize security in international trade and facilitate the movement of goods across borders programmes\n\nMaritime security\n\nOver 90 per cent of the total goods traded internationally is transported from source to destination along the world’s main global sea-trading routes he security of the maritime domain is therefore classified as a major problem of global importance. The aims of maritime security are to detect and deter security threats; to take preventive measures against security incidents affecting ships or port facilities; and to safeguard passengers, crews, ships and their cargoes, port facilities and the people who work and live in port areas, while still allowing for the safe and efficient movement of maritime trade. Effective implementation of the relevant legislative and practical security measures is necessary in order to prevent unlawful acts against the passengers and crew of ships engaged in international voyages and against the port facilities that serve them.\n\nEarly warning and alert systems\n\nBorder security is a dynamic and constantly changing process because the illegal cross-border movement of people affects not only the security, but also economic and social welfare of states. Comprehensive early-warning and alert systems are therefore key components of effective border management systems. They strengthen the collective capacity of states to detect, and combat terrorism, by facilitating inter-agency cooperation and the timely sharing and exchange of pertinent, reliable information, allow the enabling important decisions to be taken in a reasonable manner\n\nMany international organizations with a border-control mandate and utilize early- warning and alert systems. Those tools include the WCO CEN and RILO networks; IMOSOLAS, LRIT and AIS; the Consolidated Lists of the Security Council “sanctions” committees, and the “I-24/7” secure global communications system, SLTD database and Notices regime of the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL)\n\nThe United Nations Secretariat, agencies, funds and programmes, and affiliated organizations contribute to the implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy both through their individual mandates and through their membership in the Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force (CTITF)\n\nIntegrated Assistance for Countering Terrorism is an important working group in the Task force. The working group consists of representatives from different UN entities involved in putting the counter terrorism strategy in action for countries who wish to receive help from the UN.\n\nIn 2014, the inter-agency working groups of the CTITF were reformed in 2014 to help improve efficiency and effectiveness of the entities' in achieving results.\n\nSome of the working groups currently in place include;\n\nBorder Management and Law Enforcement relating to Counter-Terrorism\n\nThis working group strives to allow guidance to Member States on implementation of legal, institutional and practical counter-terrorism-related border control measures required. It focuses on the following areas: terrorist mobility; integrity and security of travel documents; illicit movement of cash and bearer negotiable instruments; movement and processing of goods; illicit movement of small arms, light weapons, ammunition, explosives and weapons of mass destruction; aviation and maritime security; early-warning and alert systems. This Working Group was established to help Member States strengthen their border-management and border-control systems as set out in Pillar II, in paragraphs 4,5, 7, 8, 13 to 16 and Pillar III, in paragraphs 2, 4 and 11 to 13 of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy\n\nCountering the Financing of Terrorism\n\nThis working group incorporates various international organizations and other united nations entities to reverse the funding of various forms of terrorism. This working group ensures the standard to countering the finance of terrorism is met according to the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and the Financial Action Task Force. The actions of the working group includes coordinating with different entities on the subject of repression of terrorism finances. From February 2007 to December 2008, multiple meetings took place with banks, financial intelligence, law enforcement, criminal justice experts, national security intelligence etc. to establish how to efficiently fight the financing of terrorism.\n\nThe conclusions from these meeting as to how to suppress terrorism financially include; the criminalization of terrorist financing, the enhancement of domestic and international cooperation, value transfer systems, non-profit organizations, and the freezing of assets. Based on the conclusions, the International Monetary Fund was able to prepare an action plan with motions for the employment of the above conclusions.\n\nForeign Terrorist Fighters (FTF)\n\nThis working group was formed on September 24, 2014 when Resolution 2178 was formed to monitor and control terrorism threats and foreign terrorist fighters. The definition of Foreign terrorist fighters is people who travel to a state outside of their own to involve themselves in terrorist activities (ie. planning, preparing, perpetration terrorist acts, receiving or providing terrorism training etc.) The Security Council has stated that terrorist groups such as the Islamic state, Al-Qaida etc. have attracted over 30,000 foreign terrorist fighters.\n\nNational and Regional Counter-Terrorism Strategies\n\nOn June 29, 2012, the national and regional efforts to combat terrorism was expanded due to the encouragement from the General Assembly. This working group is used to assist in unrolling national counterterrorism strategies.\n\nPreventing and Responding to WMD Terrorist Attacks\n\nThis working group is used to monitor the success of the UN strategies in response to terrorist attacks (nuclear, chemical, biological, radiological or any other type of weapons used). The group has formed a communal exchange of information among other UN entities and working groups such as knowledge on existing activities and emergency plans in response to WMD attacks.\n\nPreventing Violent Extremism and Conditions Conducive to the Spread of Terrorism\n\nSince February 2015, this working group has aided in the Secretary General’s efforts to prevent violent extremism. The working group gave input on the effects of extremism and the causes of it. They also provided advice on how to assist member states in preventing violent extremism.\n\nPromoting and Protecting Human Rights and the Rule of Law While Countering Terrorism\n\nThis working group was formed by member states to assure human rights are protected and the rule of law is obeyed. Pillar IV of the CTITF plays a large role in the implementation. The goal of this group is to gather information exchange on human rights and the rule of law capacity building surrounding the concept of counter terrorism. This working group has now set in place a support and assistance function available to member states to ensure human rights and the rule of law is well established. In April 2013, a global project was launched by this working group called Capacity Building and Training of Law Enforcement Officials on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and the Prevention of Terrorism. The goal of this project is to properly train law enforcement officials in charge of counter terrorism on human rights.\n\nProtection of Critical Infrastructure Including Internet, Vulnerable Targets and Tourism Security\n\nThis working group’s role is to uphold confidentiality, respecting human rights under international law. Their goals are to control efforts, both regionally and internationally to counter terrorism in its various forms on the internet as well as improve security of vulnerable targets such as infrastructure and public places. The objectives are to;\nSupporting and Highlighting Victims of Terrorism\n\nThe role of this working group is to provide support and aids to victims of terrorism. They promote the rights of the victims through media platforms, workshops etc. The mandate of this working group is stated within Pillar I and Pillar IV stating the strategy seeks to “promote international solidarity in support of victims”, stress “the need to promote and protect the rights of victims of terrorism and their families and facilitate the normalization of their lives” and sees the “dehumanization of victims of terrorism” as a major concern that leads to the spread of terrorism.\n\nLegal and Criminal Justice Responses to Terrorism\n\nThe three roles of this working group are; to help coordination in the UN regarding activities of various entities in the UN that are involved in supporting legal and criminal justice in response to terrorism, developing an approach for the UN in dealing with legal and criminal justice matters with regards to terrorism and to give advice and legal assistance to member states with involving legal and criminal justice regarding terrorism.\n\nGender Sensitive Approach to Preventing and Countering Terrorism\n\nThis working group was created because of the fact that women began playing a more important role in the fight against terrorism as they are influential in regards to families, communities and governments. This working group is still in formation.\n\nWorking Group on Communications\n\nThis working group examines the adequacy of a communication and is allocated by the Human Rights Council Advisory Committee. Consisting of five independent and qualified experts representing five regional groups (geographically), the members, appointed for three years, meet twice a year for five business days to judge the adequacy and quality of communication. This includes examining if communication separately or in cooperation with other communications demonstrates a consistency of authentic and gross violations of human rights. As of 2017, the working group consists of Mario L. Coriolano (Argentina), Mikhael Lebedev (Russian Federation), Katharina Pabel (Austria), Changrok Soh (Rebulic of Korea) and Imeru Tamrat Yigezu (Ethiopia). This working group is still in formation.\n"}
{"id": "33957665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33957665", "title": "Uncertain plural", "text": "Uncertain plural\n\nAn uncertain plural occurs when a writer does not know in advance whether a word should be written in the singular or plural. For English nouns, this may be demonstrated by enclosing the trailing \"s\" in parentheses, such as \"book(s)\".\n\nIn the case of articles, \"they\" or \"their\" may be used to include a single individual, when uncertain.\n\n"}
{"id": "13425800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13425800", "title": "War on Terror", "text": "War on Terror\n\nThe War on Terror, also known as the Global War on Terrorism, is an international military campaign that was launched by the United States government after the September 11 attacks against the United States.<ref name=\"Schmitt/slogan\"></ref> The naming of the campaign uses a metaphor of war to refer to a variety of actions that do not constitute a specific war as traditionally defined. U.S. president George W. Bush first used the term \"war on terrorism\" on 16 September 2001, and then \"war on terror\" a few days later in a formal speech to Congress. In the latter speech, George Bush stated, \"Our enemy is a radical network of terrorists and every government that supports them.\" The term was originally used with a particular focus on countries associated with al-Qaeda. The term was immediately criticised by such people as Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and more nuanced ones subsequently came to be used by the Bush administration to publicly define the international campaign led by the U.S.; it was never used as a formal designation of U.S. operations in internal government documentation.\n\nU.S. President Barack Obama announced on 23 May 2013 that the Global War on Terror is over, saying the military and intelligence agencies will not wage war against a tactic but will instead focus on a specific group of networks determined to destroy the U.S. On 28 December 2014, the Obama administration announced the end of the combat role of the U.S.-led mission in Afghanistan. However, the unexpected rise of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terror group led to a new operation against terror in the Middle East and South Asia, Operation Inherent Resolve.\n\nCriticism of the War on Terror focused on morality, efficiency, economics; some, including later president Barack Obama, objected to the phrase itself as a misnomer. The notion of a \"war\" against \"terrorism\" has proven contentious, with critics charging that it has been exploited by participating governments to pursue long-standing policy/military objectives, reduce civil liberties, and infringe upon human rights. Critics also assert that the term \"war\" is not appropriate in this context (much like the term \"War on Drugs\") since there is no identifiable enemy and it is unlikely that international terrorism can be brought to an end by military means.\n\nThe phrase \"War on Terror\" has been used to specifically refer to the ongoing military campaign led by the U.S., U.K. and their allies against organizations and regimes identified by them as terrorist, and usually excludes other independent counter-terrorist operations and campaigns such as those by Russia and India. The conflict has also been referred to by names other than the War on Terror. It has also been known as:\n\nIn 1984, the Reagan administration, which had significantly expanded the CIA-run program of funding the Jihadi militants in Afghanistan, employed the term \"war against terrorism\" to pass legislation aimed at countering terrorist groups in the wake of the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing that killed 241 U.S. and 58 French peacekeepers.\n\nU.S. Vice President Mike Pence called the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing \"the opening salvo in a war that we have waged ever since—the global war on terror,\".\n\nThe concept of the U.S. at war with terrorism may have begun on 11 September 2001 when Tom Brokaw, having just witnessed the collapse of one of the towers of the World Trade Center, declared \"Terrorists have declared war on [America].\"\n\nOn 16 September 2001, at Camp David, U.S. president George W. Bush used the phrase \"war on terrorism\" in an ostensibly unscripted comment when answering a journalist′s question about the impact of enhanced law enforcement authority given to the U.S. surveillance agencies on Americans′ civil liberties: \"This is a new kind of — a new kind of evil. And we understand. And the American people are beginning to understand. This crusade, this war on terrorism is going to take a while. And the American people must be patient. I'm going to be patient.\" Shortly after, the White House said the president regretted use of the term \"crusade\", as it might have been misunderstood as referring to the historical Crusades; the word \"crusade\" was not used again. On 20 September 2001, during a televised address to a joint session of Congress, George Bush said, \"Our war on terror begins with al Qaeda, but it does not end there. It will not end until every terrorist group of global reach has been found, stopped and defeated.\"\n\nIn April 2007, the British government announced publicly that it was abandoning the use of the phrase \"War on Terror\" as they found it to be less than helpful. This was explained more recently by Lady Eliza Manningham-Buller. In her 2011 Reith lecture, the former head of MI5 said that the 9/11 attacks were \"a crime, not an act of war. So I never felt it helpful to refer to a war on terror.\"\n\nU.S. president Barack Obama rarely used the term, but in his inaugural address on 20 January 2009, he stated: \"Our nation is at war, against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred.\" In March 2009 the Defense Department officially changed the name of operations from \"Global War on Terror\" to \"Overseas Contingency Operation\" (OCO). In March 2009, the Obama administration requested that Pentagon staff members avoid the use of the term and instead to use \"Overseas Contingency Operation\". Basic objectives of the Bush administration \"war on terror\", such as targeting al Qaeda and building international counterterrorism alliances, remain in place.\n\nIn May 2010, the Obama administration published a report outlining its National Security Strategy. The document dropped the Bush-era phrase \"global war on terror\" and reference to \"Islamic extremism,\" and stated, \"This is not a global war against a tactic — terrorism, or a religion — Islam. We are at war with a specific network, al-Qaeda, and its terrorist affiliates who support efforts to attack the United States, our allies, and partners.\"\n\nIn December 2012, Jeh Johnson, the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, stated that the military fight would be replaced by a law enforcement operation when speaking at Oxford University, predicting that al Qaeda will be so weakened to be ineffective, and has been \"effectively destroyed\", and thus the conflict will not be an armed conflict under international law.\n\nIn May 2013, two years after the assassination of Osama bin Laden, Barack Obama delivered a speech that employed the term \"global war on terror\" put in quotation marks (as officially transcribed by the White House): ″Now, make no mistake, our nation is still threatened by terrorists. < ... > But we have to recognize that the threat has shifted and evolved from the one that came to our shores on 9/11. < ... > From our use of drones to the detention of terrorist suspects, the decisions that we are making now will define the type of nation — and world — that we leave to our children. So America is at a crossroads. We must define the nature and scope of this struggle, or else it will define us. We have to be mindful of James Madison's warning that \"No nation could preserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare.\" < ... > In Afghanistan, we will complete our transition to Afghan responsibility for that country's security. < ... > Beyond Afghanistan, we must define our effort not as a boundless \"global war on terror,\" but rather as a series of persistent, targeted efforts to dismantle specific networks of violent extremists that threaten America. In many cases, this will involve partnerships with other countries.″ Nevertheless, in the same speech, in a bid to emphasise the legality of military actions undertaken by the U.S., noting that Congress had authorised the use of force, he went on to say, ″Under domestic law, and international law, the United States is at war with al Qaeda, the Taliban, and their associated forces. We are at war with an organization that right now would kill as many Americans as they could if we did not stop them first. So this is a just war — a war waged proportionally, in last resort, and in self-defense.″\n\nBecause the actions involved in the \"war on terrorism\" are diffuse, and the criteria for inclusion are unclear, political theorist Richard Jackson has argued that \"the 'war on terrorism,' therefore, is simultaneously a set of actual practices—wars, covert operations, agencies, and institutions—and an accompanying series of assumptions, beliefs, justifications, and narratives—it is an entire language or discourse.\" Jackson cites among many examples a statement by John Ashcroft that \"the attacks of September 11 drew a bright line of demarcation between the civil and the savage\". Administration officials also described \"terrorists\" as hateful, treacherous, barbarous, mad, twisted, perverted, without faith, parasitical, inhuman, and, most commonly, evil. Americans, in contrast, were described as brave, loving, generous, strong, resourceful, heroic, and respectful of human rights.\n\nBoth the term and the policies it denotes have been a source of ongoing controversy, as critics argue it has been used to justify unilateral preventive war, human rights abuses and other violations of international law.\n\nThe origins of al-Qaeda can be traced back to the Soviet–Afghan War (December 1979 – February 1989). The United States, the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and the People's Republic of China supported the Islamist Afghan mujahadeen guerillas against the military forces of the Soviet Union and the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. A small number of \"Afghan Arab\" volunteers joined the fight against the Soviets, including Osama bin Laden, but there is no evidence they received any external assistance. In May 1996 the group World Islamic Front for Jihad Against Jews and Crusaders (WIFJAJC), sponsored by bin Laden (and later re-formed as al-Qaeda), started forming a large base of operations in Afghanistan, where the Islamist extremist regime of the Taliban had seized power earlier in the year. In August 1996, Bin Laden declared jihad against the United States. In February 1998, Osama bin Laden signed a fatwā, as head of al-Qaeda, declaring war on the West and Israel, later in May of that same year al-Qaeda released a video declaring war on the U.S. and the West.\n\nOn 7 August 1998, al-Qaeda struck the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, killing 224 people, including 12 Americans. In retaliation, U.S. President Bill Clinton launched Operation Infinite Reach, a bombing campaign in Sudan and Afghanistan against targets the U.S. asserted were associated with WIFJAJC, although others have questioned whether a pharmaceutical plant in Sudan was used as a chemical warfare facility. The plant produced much of the region's antimalarial drugs and around 50% of Sudan's pharmaceutical needs. The strikes failed to kill any leaders of WIFJAJC or the Taliban.\n\nNext came the 2000 millennium attack plots, which included an attempted bombing of Los Angeles International Airport. On 12 October 2000, the USS \"Cole\" bombing occurred near the port of Yemen, and 17 U.S. Navy sailors were killed.\n\nOn the morning of September 11, 2001, nineteen men hijacked four jet airliners all bound for California. Once the hijackers assumed control of the jet airliners, they told the passengers that they had a bomb on board and would spare the lives of passengers and crew once their demands were met – no passenger and crew actually suspected that they would use the jet airliners as suicide weapons since it had never happened before in history, and many previous hijacking attempts had been resolved with the passengers and crew escaping unharmed after obeying the hijackers. The hijackers – members of al-Qaeda's Hamburg cell – intentionally crashed two jet airliners into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City. Both buildings collapsed within two hours from fire damage related to the crashes, destroying nearby buildings and damaging others. The hijackers crashed a third jet airliner into the Pentagon in Arlington County, Virginia, just outside Washington D.C. The fourth jet airliner crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after some of its passengers and flight crew attempted to retake control of the jet airliners, which the hijackers had redirected toward Washington D.C., to target the White House or the U.S. Capitol. None of the flights had any survivors. A total of 2,977 victims and the 19 hijackers perished in the attacks. Fifteen of the nineteen were citizens of Saudi Arabia, and the others were from the United Arab Emirates (2), Egypt, and Lebanon.\n\nOn 13 September, for the first time ever, NATO invoked Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. On 18 September 2001, President Bush signed the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists passed by Congress a few days prior.\n\nThe Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists or \"AUMF\" was made law on 14 September 2001, to authorize the use of United States Armed Forces against those responsible for the attacks on 11 September 2001.\nIt authorized the President to use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on 11 September 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations or individuals. Congress declares this is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution of 1973.\n\nThe George W. Bush administration defined the following objectives in the War on Terror:\n\n\nOperation Enduring Freedom is the official name used by the Bush administration for the War in Afghanistan, together with three smaller military actions, under the umbrella of the Global War on Terror. These global operations are intended to seek out and destroy any al-Qaeda fighters or affiliates.\n\nOn 20 September 2001, in the wake of the September 11 attacks, George W. Bush delivered an ultimatum to the Taliban government of Afghanistan, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, to turn over Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda leaders operating in the country or face attack. The Taliban demanded evidence of bin Laden's link to the 11 September attacks and, if such evidence warranted a trial, they offered to handle such a trial in an Islamic Court. The U.S. refused to provide any evidence.\n\nSubsequently, in October 2001, U.S. forces (with UK and coalition allies) invaded Afghanistan to oust the Taliban regime. On 7 October 2001, the official invasion began with British and U.S. forces conducting airstrike campaigns over enemy targets. Kabul, the capital city of Afghanistan, fell by mid-November. The remaining al-Qaeda and Taliban remnants fell back to the rugged mountains of eastern Afghanistan, mainly Tora Bora. In December, Coalition forces (the U.S. and its allies) fought within that region. It is believed that Osama bin Laden escaped into Pakistan during the battle.\n\nIn March 2002, the U.S. and other NATO and non-NATO forces launched Operation Anaconda with the goal of destroying any remaining al-Qaeda and Taliban forces in the Shah-i-Kot Valley and Arma Mountains of Afghanistan. The Taliban suffered heavy casualties and evacuated the region.\n\nThe Taliban regrouped in western Pakistan and began to unleash an insurgent-style offensive against Coalition forces in late 2002. Throughout southern and eastern Afghanistan, firefights broke out between the surging Taliban and Coalition forces. Coalition forces responded with a series of military offensives and an increase of troops in Afghanistan. In February 2010, Coalition forces launched Operation Moshtarak in southern Afghanistan along with other military offensives in the hopes that they would destroy the Taliban insurgency once and for all. Peace talks are also underway between Taliban affiliated fighters and Coalition forces. In September 2014, Afghanistan and the United States signed a security agreement, which permits the United States and NATO forces to remain in Afghanistan until at least 2024. The United States and other NATO and non-NATO forces are planning to withdraw; with the Taliban claiming it has defeated the United States and NATO, and the Obama Administration viewing it as a victory. In December 2014, ISAF encasing its colors, and Resolute Support began as the NATO operation in Afghanistan. Continued United States operations within Afghanistan will continue under the name \"Operation Freedom's Sentinel\".\n\nDecember 2001 saw the creation of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) to assist the Afghan Transitional Administration and the first post-Taliban elected government. With a renewed Taliban insurgency, it was announced in 2006 that ISAF would replace the U.S. troops in the province as part of Operation Enduring Freedom.\n\nThe British 16th Air Assault Brigade (later reinforced by Royal Marines) formed the core of the force in southern Afghanistan, along with troops and helicopters from Australia, Canada and the Netherlands. The initial force consisted of roughly 3,300 British, 2,000 Canadian, 1,400 from the Netherlands and 240 from Australia, along with special forces from Denmark and Estonia and small contingents from other nations. The monthly supply of cargo containers through Pakistani route to ISAF in Afghanistan is over 4,000 costing around in Pakistani Rupees.\n\nIraq had been listed as a State sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. since 1990, when Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. Iraq had also been on the list from 1979 to 1982; it was removed so that the U.S. could provide material support to Iraq in its war with Iran. Hussein's regime had proven to be a problem for the UN and Iraq's neighbors due to its use of chemical weapons against Iranians and Kurds in the 1980s.\n\nFollowing the ceasefire agreement that suspended hostilities (but not officially ended) in the 1991 Gulf War, the United States and its allies instituted and began patrolling Iraqi no-fly zones, to protect Iraq's Kurdish and Shi'a Arab population—both of which suffered attacks from the Hussein regime before and after the Gulf War—in Iraq's northern and southern regions, respectively. U.S. forces continued in combat zone deployments through November 1995 and launched Operation Desert Fox against Iraq in 1998 after it failed to meet U.S. demands for \"unconditional cooperation\" in weapons inspections.\n\nIn the aftermath of Operation Desert Fox, during December 1998, Iraq announced that it would no longer respect the no-fly zones and resumed its attempts to shoot down U.S. aircraft.\n\nThe Iraq War began in March 2003 with an air campaign, which was immediately followed by a U.S.-led ground invasion. The Bush administration stated the invasion was the \"serious consequences\" spoken of in the UNSC Resolution 1441, partially by Iraq possessing weapons of mass destruction. The Bush administration also stated the Iraq war was part of the War on Terror; something later questioned or contested.\n\nThe first ground attack came at the Battle of Umm Qasr on 21 March 2003 when a combined force of British, American and Polish forces seized control of the port city of Umm Qasr. Baghdad, Iraq's capital city, fell to American troops in April 2003 and Saddam Hussein's government quickly dissolved. On 1 May 2003, Bush announced that major combat operations in Iraq had ended. However, an insurgency arose against the U.S.-led coalition and the newly developing Iraqi military and post-Saddam government. The rebellion, which included al-Qaeda-affiliated groups, led to far more coalition casualties than the invasion. Other elements of the insurgency were led by fugitive members of President Hussein's Ba'ath regime, which included Iraqi nationalists and pan-Arabists. Many insurgency leaders are Islamists and claim to be fighting a religious war to reestablish the Islamic Caliphate of centuries past. Iraqi President Saddam Hussein was captured by U.S. forces in December 2003. He was executed in 2006.\n\nIn 2004, the insurgent forces grew stronger. The U.S. conducted attacks on insurgent strongholds in cities like Najaf and Fallujah.\n\nIn January 2007, President Bush presented a new strategy for Operation Iraqi Freedom based upon counter-insurgency theories and tactics developed by General David Petraeus. The Iraq War troop surge of 2007 was part of this \"new way forward\" and, along with U.S. backing of Sunni groups it had previously sought to defeat, has been credited with a widely recognized dramatic decrease in violence by up to 80%.\n\nThe war entered a new phase on 1 September 2010, with the official end of U.S. combat operations. The last U.S. troops exited Iraq on 18 December 2011.\n\nIn a major split in the ranks of Al Qaeda's organization, the Iraqi franchise, known as Al Qaeda in Iraq covertly invaded Syria and the Levant and began participating in the ongoing Syrian Civil War, gaining enough support and strength to re-invade Iraq's western provinces under the name of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS/ISIL), taking over much of the country in a blitzkrieg-like action and combining the Iraq insurgency and Syrian Civil War into a single conflict. Due to their extreme brutality and a complete change in their overall ideology, Al Qaeda's core organization in Central Asia eventually denounced ISIS and directed their affiliates to cut off all ties with this organization. Many analysts believe that because of this schism, Al Qaeda and ISIL are now in a competition to retain the title of the world's most powerful terrorist organization.\n\nThe Obama administration began to re-engage in Iraq with a series of airstrikes aimed at ISIS starting on 10 August 2014. On 9 September 2014, President Obama said that he had the authority he needed to take action to destroy the militant group known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, citing the 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force Against Terrorists, and thus did not require additional approval from Congress. The following day on 10 September 2014 President Barack Obama made a televised speech about ISIL, which he stated: \"Our objective is clear: We will degrade, and ultimately destroy, ISIL through a comprehensive and sustained counter-terrorism strategy\". Obama has authorized the deployment of additional U.S. Forces into Iraq, as well as authorizing direct military operations against ISIL within Syria. On the night of 21/22 September the United States, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the UAE, Jordan and Qatar started air attacks against ISIS in Syria.\n\nIn October 2014, it was reported that the U.S. Department of Defense considers military operations against ISIL as being under Operation Enduring Freedom in regards to campaign medal awarding. On 15 October, the military intervention became known as \"Operation Inherent Resolve\".\n\nFollowing the 11 September 2001 attacks, former President of Pakistan Pervez Musharraf sided with the U.S. against the Taliban government in Afghanistan after an ultimatum by then U.S. President George W. Bush. Musharraf agreed to give the U.S. the use of three airbases for Operation Enduring Freedom. United States Secretary of State Colin Powell and other U.S. administration officials met with Musharraf. On 19 September 2001, Musharraf addressed the people of Pakistan and stated that, while he opposed military tactics against the Taliban, Pakistan risked being endangered by an alliance of India and the U.S. if it did not cooperate. In 2006, Musharraf testified that this stance was pressured by threats from the U.S., and revealed in his memoirs that he had \"war-gamed\" the United States as an adversary and decided that it would end in a loss for Pakistan.\n\nOn 12 January 2002, Musharraf gave a speech against Islamic extremism. He unequivocally condemned all acts of terrorism and pledged to combat Islamic extremism and lawlessness within Pakistan itself. He stated that his government was committed to rooting out extremism and made it clear that the banned militant organizations would not be allowed to resurface under any new name. He said, \"the recent decision to ban extremist groups promoting militancy was taken in the national interest after thorough consultations. It was not taken under any foreign influence\".\n\nIn 2002, the Musharraf-led government took a firm stand against the jihadi organizations and groups promoting extremism, and arrested Maulana Masood Azhar, head of the Jaish-e-Mohammed, and Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, chief of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, and took dozens of activists into custody. An official ban was imposed on the groups on 12 January. Later that year, the Saudi born Zayn al-Abidn Muhammed Hasayn Abu Zubaydah was arrested by Pakistani officials during a series of joint U.S.-Pakistan raids. Zubaydah is said to have been a high-ranking al-Qaeda official with the title of operations chief and in charge of running al-Qaeda training camps. Other prominent al-Qaeda members were arrested in the following two years, namely Ramzi bin al-Shibh, who is known to have been a financial backer of al-Qaeda operations, and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who at the time of his capture was the third highest-ranking official in al-Qaeda and had been directly in charge of the planning for the 11 September attacks.\n\nIn 2004, the Pakistan Army launched a campaign in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan's Waziristan region, sending in 80,000 troops. The goal of the conflict was to remove the al-Qaeda and Taliban forces in the area.\n\nAfter the fall of the Taliban regime, many members of the Taliban resistance fled to the Northern border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan where the Pakistani army had previously little control. With the logistics and air support of the United States, the Pakistani Army captured or killed numerous al-Qaeda operatives such as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, wanted for his involvement in the USS \"Cole\" bombing, the Bojinka plot, and the killing of \"Wall Street Journal\" reporter Daniel Pearl.\n\nThe United States has carried out a campaign of Drone attacks on targets all over the Federally Administered Tribal Areas. However, the Pakistani Taliban still operates there. To this day it is estimated that 15 U.S. soldiers were killed while fighting al-Qaeda and Taliban remnants in Pakistan since the War on Terror began.\n\nOsama bin Laden, who was of many founders of al-Qaeda, his wife, and son, were all killed on 2 May 2011, during a raid conducted by the United States special operations forces in Abbottabad, Pakistan.\n\nThe use of drones by the Central Intelligence Agency in Pakistan to carry out operations associated with the Global War on Terror sparks debate over sovereignty and the laws of war. The U.S. Government uses the CIA rather than the U.S. Air Force for strikes in Pakistan to avoid breaching sovereignty through military invasion. The United States was criticized by a report on drone warfare and aerial sovereignty for abusing the term 'Global War on Terror' to carry out military operations through government agencies without formally declaring war.\n\nIn the three years before the attacks of 11 September, Pakistan received approximately in American military aid. In the three years after, the number increased to , making it the country with the maximum funding post 9/11.\n\nAn uprising in Baluchistan began after Pakistan invaded and occupied the territory in 1948. Various NGOs have reported human rights violations in committed by Pakistani armed forces. Approximately 18,000 Baluch residents are reportedly missing and about 2000 have been killed.\n\nBrahamdagh Bugti, leader of the Baloch Republican Party, stated in a 2008 interview that he would accept aid from India, Afghanistan, and Iran in defending Baluchistan against Pakistani aggression. Pakistan has repeatedly accused India of supporting Baloch rebels, and David Wright-Neville writes that outside Pakistan, some Western observers also believe that India secretly funds the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA).\n\nOperation Enduring Freedom – Trans Sahara (OEF-TS) is the name of the military operation conducted by the U.S. and partner nations in the Sahara/Sahel region of Africa, consisting of counter-terrorism efforts and policing of arms and drug trafficking across central Africa.\n\nThe conflict in northern Mali began in January 2012 with radical Islamists (affiliated to al-Qaeda) advancing into northern Mali. The Malian government had a hard time maintaining full control over their country. The fledgling government requested support from the international community on combating the Islamic militants. In January 2013, France intervened on behalf of the Malian government's request and deployed troops into the region. They launched Operation Serval on 11 January 2013, with the hopes of dislodging the al-Qaeda affiliated groups from northern Mali.\n\nThis extension of Operation Enduring Freedom was titled OEF-HOA. Unlike other operations contained in Operation Enduring Freedom, OEF-HOA does not have a specific organization as a target. OEF-HOA instead focuses its efforts to disrupt and detect militant activities in the region and to work with willing governments to prevent the reemergence of militant cells and activities.\n\nIn October 2002, the Combined Joint Task Force - Horn of Africa (CJTF-HOA) was established in Djibouti at Camp Lemonnier. It contains approximately 2,000 personnel including U.S. military and special operations forces (SOF) and coalition force members, Combined Task Force 150 (CTF-150).\n\nTask Force 150 consists of ships from a shifting group of nations, including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Pakistan, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. The primary goal of the coalition forces is to monitor, inspect, board and stop suspected shipments from entering the Horn of Africa region and affecting the United States' Operation Iraqi Freedom.\n\nIncluded in the operation is the training of selected armed forces units of the countries of Djibouti, Kenya and Ethiopia in counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency tactics. Humanitarian efforts conducted by CJTF-HOA include rebuilding of schools and medical clinics and providing medical services to those countries whose forces are being trained.\n\nThe program expands as part of the Trans-Saharan Counterterrorism Initiative as CJTF personnel also assist in training the armed forces of Chad, Niger, Mauritania and Mali. However, the War on Terror does not include Sudan, where over 400,000 have died in an ongoing civil war.\n\nOn 1 July 2006, a Web-posted message purportedly written by Osama bin Laden urged Somalis to build an Islamic state in the country and warned western governments that the al-Qaeda network would fight against them if they intervened there.\n\nSomalia has been considered a \"failed state\" because its official central government was weak, dominated by warlords and unable to exert effective control over the country. Beginning in mid-2006, the Islamic Courts Union (ICU), an Islamist faction campaigning on a restoration of \"law and order\" through Sharia law, had rapidly taken control of much of southern Somalia.\n\nOn 14 December 2006, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Jendayi Frazer claimed al-Qaeda cell operatives were controlling the Islamic Courts Union, a claim denied by the ICU.\n\nBy late 2006, the UN-backed Transitional Federal Government (TFG) of Somalia had seen its power effectively limited to Baidoa, while the Islamic Courts Union controlled the majority of southern Somalia, including the capital of Mogadishu. On 20 December 2006, the Islamic Courts Union launched an offensive on the government stronghold of Baidoa and saw early gains before Ethiopia intervened for the government.\n\nBy 26 December, the Islamic Courts Union retreated towards Mogadishu, before again retreating as TFG/Ethiopian troops neared, leaving them to take Mogadishu with no resistance. The ICU then fled to Kismayo, where they fought Ethiopian/TFG forces in the Battle of Jilib.\n\nThe Prime Minister of Somalia claimed that three \"terror suspects\" from the 1998 United States embassy bombings are being sheltered in Kismayo. On 30 December 2006, al-Qaeda deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahiri called upon Muslims worldwide to fight against Ethiopia and the TFG in Somalia.\n\nOn 8 January 2007, the U.S. launched the Battle of Ras Kamboni by bombing Ras Kamboni using AC-130 gunships.\n\nOn 14 September 2009, U.S. Special Forces killed two men and wounded and captured two others near the Somali village of Baarawe. Witnesses claim that helicopters used for the operation launched from French-flagged warships, but that could not be confirmed. A Somali-based al-Qaida affiliated group, the Al-Shabaab, has verified the death of \"sheik commander\" Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan along with an unspecified number of militants. Nabhan, a Kenyan, was wanted in connection with the 2002 Mombasa attacks.\n\nIn January 2002, the United States Special Operations Command, Pacific deployed to the Philippines to advise and assist the Armed Forces of the Philippines in combating Filipino Islamist groups. The operations were mainly focused on removing the Abu Sayyaf group and Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) from their stronghold on the island of Basilan. The second portion of the operation was conducted as a humanitarian program called \"Operation Smiles\". The goal of the program was to provide medical care and services to the region of Basilan as part of a \"Hearts and Minds\" program. Joint Special Operations Task Force – Philippines disbanded in June 2014, ending a successful 12-year mission. After JSOTF-P had disbanded, as late as November 2014, American forces continued to operate in the Philippines under the name \"PACOM Augmentation Team\", until February 24, 2015. By 2018, American operations within the Philippines against terrorist was renamed Operation Pacific Eagle, which involves as many as 300 advisers.\n\nThe United States has also conducted a series of military strikes on al-Qaeda militants in Yemen since the War on Terror began. Yemen has a weak central government and a powerful tribal system that leaves large lawless areas open for militant training and operations. Al-Qaeda has a strong presence in the country. On 31 March 2011, AQAP declared the Al-Qaeda Emirate in Yemen\nafter its captured most of Abyan Governorate.\n\nThe U.S., in an effort to support Yemeni counter-terrorism efforts, has increased their military aid package to Yemen from less than in 2006 to more than in 2009, as well as providing up to for development over the next three years.\n\nIsrael has been fighting terrorist groups such Hezbollah, Hamas, and Islamic Jihad, who are all Iran's proxies aimed at Iran's objective to destroy Israel. According to the Clarion Project: \"Since 1979, Iran has been responsible for countless terrorist plots, directly through regime agents or indirectly through proxies like Hamas and Hezbollah.\nIn 2006, U.S. President [George W Bush] said that Israel's war on terrorist group Hezbollah was part of war on terror.\n\nSaudi Arabia witnessed multiple terror attacks from different groups such as Al-Qaeda, whose leader, Osama Bin Laden, declared war on the Saudi government. On June 16, 1996, the Khobar Towers bombing killed 19 U.S. soldiers. The 9/11 Commission concluded that Hezbollah, likely with the support of the Iranian regime, was the perpetrator of that bombing in Saudi Arabia. It said there are \"signs\" that Al-Qaeda also played a role.\n\nOn 19 March 2011, a multi-state coalition began a military action in Libya, ostensibly to implement United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973. The United Nations Intent and Voting was to have \"an immediate ceasefire in Libya, including an end to the current attacks against civilians, which it said might constitute crimes against humanity\" ... \"imposing a ban on all flights in the country's airspace – a no-fly zone – and tightened sanctions on the Qadhafi regime and its supporters.\" The resolution was taken in response to events during the Libyan Civil War, and military operations began, with American and British naval forces firing over 110 Tomahawk cruise missiles, the French Air Force, British Royal Air Force, and Royal Canadian Air Force undertaking sorties across Libya and a naval blockade by Coalition forces. French jets launched air strikes against Libyan Army tanks and vehicles. The Libyan government response to the campaign was totally ineffectual, with Gaddafi's forces not managing to shoot down a single NATO plane despite the country possessing 30 heavy SAM batteries, 17 medium SAM batteries, 55 light SAM batteries (a total of 400–450 launchers, including 130–150 SA-6 launchers and some SA-8 launchers), and 440–600 short-range air-defense guns. The official names for the interventions by the coalition members are Opération Harmattan by France; Operation Ellamy by the United Kingdom; Operation Mobile for the Canadian participation and Operation Odyssey Dawn for the United States.\n\nFrom the beginning of the intervention, the initial coalition of Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Italy, Norway, Qatar, Spain, UK, and U.S. expanded to nineteen states, with newer states mostly enforcing the no-fly zone and naval blockade or providing military logistical assistance. The effort was initially largely led by France and the United Kingdom, with command shared with the United States. NATO took control of the arms embargo on 23 March, named Operation Unified Protector. An attempt to unify the military leadership of the air campaign (while keeping political and strategic control with a small group), first failed over objections by the French, German, and Turkish governments. On 24 March, NATO agreed to take control of the no-fly zone, while command of targeting ground units remains with coalition forces. The handover occurred on 31 March 2011 at 06:00 UTC (08:00 local time). NATO flew 26,500 sorties since it took charge of the Libya mission on 31 March 2011.\n\nFighting in Libya ended in late October following the death of Muammar Gaddafi, and NATO stated it would end operations over Libya on 31 October 2011. Libya's new government requested its mission to be extended to the end of the year, but on 27 October, the Security Council voted to end NATO's mandate for military action on 31 October.\n\n\"NBC News\" reported that in mid-2014, ISIS had about 1,000 fighters in Libya. Taking advantage of a power vacuum in the center of the country, far from the major cities of Tripoli and Benghazi, ISIS expanded rapidly over the next 18 months. Local militants were joined by jihadists from the rest of North Africa, the Middle East, Europe and the Caucasus. The force absorbed or defeated other Islamist groups inside Libya and the central ISIS leadership in Raqqa, Syria, began urging foreign recruits to head for Libya instead of Syria. ISIS seized control of the coastal city of Sirte in early 2015 and then began to expand to the east and south. By the beginning of 2016, it had effective control of 120 to 150 miles of coastline and portions of the interior and had reached Eastern Libya's major population center, Benghazi. In spring 2016, AFRICOM estimated that ISIS had about 5,000 fighters in its stronghold of Sirte.\n\nHowever, the indigenous rebel groups who had staked their claims to Libya and turned their weapons on ISIS — with the help of airstrikes by Western forces, including U.S. drones, the Libyan population resented the outsiders who wanted to establish a fundamentalist regime on their soil. Militias loyal to the new Libyan unity government, plus a separate and rival force loyal to a former officer in the Qaddafi regime, launched an assault on ISIS outposts in Sirte and the surrounding areas that lasted for months. According to U.S. military estimates, ISIS ranks shrank to somewhere between a few hundred and 2,000 fighters. In August 2016, the U.S. military began airstrikes that, along with continued pressure on the ground from the Libyan militias, pushed the remaining ISIS fighters back into Sirte, In all, U.S. drones and planes hit ISIS nearly 590 times, the Libyan militias reclaimed the city in mid-December. On January 18, 2017, \"ABC News\" reported that two USAF B-2 bombers struck two ISIS camps south of Sirte, the airstrikes targeted between 80 and 100 ISIS fighters in multiple camps, an unmanned aircraft also participated in the airstrikes. \"NBC News\" reported that as many as 90 ISIS fighters were killed in the strike, a U.S. defense official said that \"This was the largest remaining ISIS presence in Libya,\" and that \"They have been largely marginalized, but I am hesitant to say they have been eliminated in Libya.\"\n\nOperation Active Endeavour is a naval operation of NATO started in October 2001 in response to the 11 September attacks. It operates in the Mediterranean and is designed to prevent the movement of militants or weapons of mass destruction and to enhance the security of shipping in general.\n\nIn a 'Letter to American People' written by Osama bin Laden in 2002, he stated that one of the reasons he was fighting America is because of its support of India on the Kashmir issue. While on a trip to Delhi in 2002, U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld suggested that Al-Qaeda was active in Kashmir, though he did not have any hard evidence. In 2002, The Christian Science Monitor published an article claiming that Al-Qaeda and its affiliates were \"thriving\" in Pakistan-administered Kashmir with the tacit approval of Pakistan's National Intelligence agency Inter-Services Intelligence. A team of Special Air Service and Delta Force was sent into Indian-administered Kashmir in 2002 to hunt for Osama bin Laden after reports that he was being sheltered by the Kashmiri militant group Harkat-ul-Mujahideen. U.S. officials believed that Al-Qaeda was helping organize a campaign of terror in Kashmir to provoke conflict between India and Pakistan. Fazlur Rehman Khalil, the leader of the Harkat-ul-Mujahideen, signed al-Qaeda's 1998 declaration of holy war, which called on Muslims to attack all Americans and their allies. Indian sources claimed that In 2006, Al-Qaeda claimed they had established a wing in Kashmir; this worried the Indian government. India also argued that Al-Qaeda has strong ties with the Kashmir militant groups Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed in Pakistan. While on a visit to Pakistan in January 2010, U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates stated that Al-Qaeda was seeking to destabilize the region and planning to provoke a nuclear war between India and Pakistan.\n\nIn September 2009, a U.S. Drone strike reportedly killed Ilyas Kashmiri, who was the chief of Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, a Kashmiri militant group associated with Al-Qaeda. Kashmiri was described by Bruce Riedel as a 'prominent' Al-Qaeda member, while others described him as the head of military operations for Al-Qaeda. Waziristan had now become the new battlefield for Kashmiri militants, who were now fighting NATO in support of Al-Qaeda.\nOn 8 July 2012, Al-Badar Mujahideen, a breakaway faction of Kashmir centric terror group Hizbul Mujahideen, on the conclusion of their two-day Shuhada Conference called for a mobilization of resources for continuation of jihad in Kashmir.\n\nIn October 2015, the U.S. began deploying 300 soldiers to Cameroon, with the invitation of the Cameroonian government, to support African forces in a non-combat role in their fight against ISIS insurgency in that country. The troops' primary missions will revolve around providing intelligence support to local forces as well as conducting reconnaissance flights.\n\nThe invasion of Afghanistan is seen to have been the first action of this war, and initially involved forces from the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Afghan Northern Alliance. Since the initial invasion period, these forces were augmented by troops and aircraft from Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand and Norway amongst others. In 2006, there were about 33,000 troops in Afghanistan.\n\nOn 12 September 2001, less than 24 hours after the 11 September attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C., NATO invoked Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty and declared the attacks to be an attack against all 19 NATO member countries. Australian Prime Minister John Howard also stated that Australia would invoke the ANZUS Treaty along similar lines.\n\nIn the following months, NATO took a broad range of measures to respond to the threat of terrorism. On 22 November 2002, the member states of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council (EAPC) decided on a Partnership Action Plan against Terrorism, which explicitly states, \"[The] EAPC States are committed to the protection and promotion of fundamental freedoms and human rights, as well as the rule of law, in combating terrorism.\" NATO started naval operations in the Mediterranean Sea designed to prevent the movement of terrorists or weapons of mass destruction as well as to enhance the security of shipping in general called Operation Active Endeavour.\n\nSupport for the U.S. cooled when America made clear its determination to invade Iraq in late 2002. Even so, many of the \"coalition of the willing\" countries that unconditionally supported the U.S.-led military action have sent troops to Afghanistan, particular neighboring Pakistan, which has disowned its earlier support for the Taliban and contributed tens of thousands of soldiers to the conflict. Pakistan was also engaged in the War in North-West Pakistan (Waziristan War). Supported by U.S. intelligence, Pakistan was attempting to remove the Taliban insurgency and al-Qaeda element from the northern tribal areas.\n\nSince 9/11, Al-Qaeda and other affiliated radical Islamist groups have executed attacks in several parts of the world where conflicts are not taking place. Whereas countries like Pakistan have suffered hundreds of attacks killing tens of thousands and displacing much more.\n\nThere may also have been several additional planned attacks that were not successful.\n\n\nIn addition to military efforts abroad, in the aftermath of 9/11, the Bush Administration increased domestic efforts to prevent future attacks. Various government bureaucracies that handled security and military functions were reorganized. A new cabinet-level agency called the United States Department of Homeland Security was created in November 2002 to lead and coordinate the largest reorganization of the U.S. federal government since the consolidation of the armed forces into the Department of Defense.\n\nThe Justice Department launched the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System for certain male non-citizens in the U.S., requiring them to register in person at offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.\n\nThe USA PATRIOT Act of October 2001 dramatically reduces restrictions on law enforcement agencies' ability to search telephone, e-mail communications, medical, financial, and other records; eases restrictions on foreign intelligence gathering within the United States; expands the Secretary of the Treasury's authority to regulate financial transactions, particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities; and broadens the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts. The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism, thus enlarging the number of activities to which the USA PATRIOT Act's expanded law enforcement powers could be applied. A new Terrorist Finance Tracking Program monitored the movements of terrorists' financial resources (discontinued after being revealed by \"The New York Times\"). Global telecommunication usage, including those with no links to terrorism, is being collected and monitored through the NSA electronic surveillance program. The Patriot Act is still in effect.\n\nPolitical interest groups have stated that these laws remove important restrictions on governmental authority, and are a dangerous encroachment on civil liberties, possible unconstitutional violations of the Fourth Amendment. On 30 July 2003, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) filed the first legal challenge against Section 215 of the Patriot Act, claiming that it allows the FBI to violate a citizen's First Amendment rights, Fourth Amendment rights, and right to due process, by granting the government the right to search a person's business, bookstore, and library records in a terrorist investigation, without disclosing to the individual that records were being searched. Also, governing bodies in many communities have passed symbolic resolutions against the act.\n\nIn a speech on 9 June 2005, Bush said that the USA PATRIOT Act had been used to bring charges against more than 400 suspects, more than half of whom had been convicted. Meanwhile, the ACLU quoted Justice Department figures showing that 7,000 people have complained of abuse of the Act.\n\nThe Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) began an initiative in early 2002 with the creation of the Total Information Awareness program, designed to promote information technologies that could be used in counter-terrorism. This program, facing criticism, has since been defunded by Congress.\n\nBy 2003, 12 major conventions and protocols were designed to combat terrorism. These were adopted and ratified by many states. These conventions require states to co-operate on principal issues regarding unlawful seizure of aircraft, the physical protection of nuclear materials, and the freezing of assets of militant networks.\n\nIn 2005, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1624 concerning incitement to commit acts of terrorism and the obligations of countries to comply with international human rights laws. Although both resolutions require mandatory annual reports on counter-terrorism activities by adopting nations, the United States and Israel have both declined to submit reports. In the same year, the United States Department of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff issued a planning document, by the name \"National Military Strategic Plan for the War on Terrorism\", which stated that it constituted the \"comprehensive military plan to prosecute the Global War on Terror for the Armed Forces of the United States...including the findings and recommendations of the 9/11 Commission and a rigorous examination with the Department of Defense\".\n\nOn 9 January 2007, the House of Representatives passed a bill, by a vote of 299–128, enacting many of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission The bill passed in the U.S. Senate, by a vote of 60–38, on 13 March 2007 and it was signed into law on 3 August 2007 by President Bush. It became Public Law 110-53. In July 2012, U.S. Senate passed a resolution urging that the Haqqani Network be designated a foreign terrorist organization.\n\nThe Office of Strategic Influence was secretly created after 9/11 for the purpose of coordinating propaganda efforts but was closed soon after being discovered. The Bush administration implemented the Continuity of Operations Plan (or Continuity of Government) to ensure that U.S. government would be able to continue in catastrophic circumstances.\n\nSince 9/11, extremists made various attempts to attack the United States, with varying levels of organization and skill. For example, vigilant passengers aboard a transatlantic flight prevented Richard Reid, in 2001, and Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, in 2009, from detonating an explosive device.\n\nOther terrorist plots have been stopped by federal agencies using new legal powers and investigative tools, sometimes in cooperation with foreign governments.\n\nSuch thwarted attacks include:\n\nThe Obama administration has promised the closing of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, increased the number of troops in Afghanistan, and promised the withdrawal of its forces from Iraq.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, the United States government commenced a program of illegal \"extraordinary rendition,\" sometimes referred to as \"irregular rendition\" or \"forced rendition,\" the government-sponsored abduction and extrajudicial transfer of a person from one country to transferee countries, with the consent of transferee countries. The aim of extraordinary rendition is often conducting torture on the detainee that would be difficult to conduct in the U.S. legal environment, a practice known as torture by proxy. Starting in 2002, U.S. government rendered hundreds of illegal combatants for U.S. detention, and transported detainees to U.S. controlled sites as part of an extensive interrogation program that included torture. Extraordinary rendition continued under the Obama administration; with targets being interrogated and subsequently taken to the US for trial.\n\nThe United Nations considers one nation abducting the citizens of another a crime against humanity. In July 2014 the European Court of Human Rights condemned the government of Poland for participating in CIA extraordinary rendition, ordering Poland to pay restitution to men who had been abducted, taken to a CIA black site in Poland, and tortured.\n\nIn 2005, \"The Washington Post\" and Human Rights Watch (HRW) published revelations concerning CIA kidnapping of detainees and their transport to \"black sites,\" covert prisons operated by the CIA and whose existence is denied by the US government. The European Parliament published a report connecting use of such secret detention Black Sites for detainees kidnapped as part of extraordinary rendition (\"See below\"). Although some Black Sites have been known to exist inside European Union states, these detention centers violate the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and the UN Convention Against Torture, treaties that all EU member states are bound to follow.\n\nAccording to ABC News two such facilities, in countries mentioned by Human Rights Watch, have been closed following the recent publicity with the CIA relocating the detainees. Almost all of these detainees were tortured as part of the \"enhanced interrogation techniques\" of the CIA.\n\nMajor American newspapers, such as the \"The Washington Post,\" have been criticized for deliberately withholding publication of articles reporting locations of Black Sites. The Post defended its decision to suppress this news on the ground that such revelations \"could open the U.S. government to legal challenges, particularly in foreign courts, and increase the risk of political condemnation at home and abroad.\" However, according to Fairness and Accuracy In Reporting \"the possibility that illegal, unpopular government actions might be disrupted is not a consequence to be feared, however—it's the whole point of the U.S. First Amendment. ... Without the basic fact of where these prisons are, it's difficult if not impossible for 'legal challenges' or 'political condemnation' to force them to close.\" FAIR argued that the damage done to the global reputation of the United States by the continued existence of black-site prisons was more dangerous than any threat caused by the exposure of their locations.\n\nThe complex at Stare Kiejkuty, a Soviet-era compound once used by German intelligence in World War II, is best known as having been the only Russian intelligence training school to operate outside the Soviet Union. Its prominence in the Soviet era suggests that it may have been the facility first identified—but never named—when the Washington Post's Dana Priest revealed the existence of the CIA's secret prison network in November 2005.\n\nThe journalists who exposed this provided their sources and this information and documents were provided to \"The Washington Post\" in 2005. In addition, they also identified such Black Sites are concealed:\n\nThe journalists went on to explain that \"Such a site, sources say, would have to be near an airport.\" The airport in question is the Szczytno-Szymany International Airport.\n\nIn response to these allegations, former Polish intelligence chief, Zbigniew Siemiatkowski, embarked on a media blitz and claimed that the allegations were \"... part of the domestic political battle in the US over who is to succeed current Republican President George W Bush,\" according to the German news agency Deutsche Presse Agentur.\"\n\nThe United States has also been accused of operating \"floating prisons\" to house and transport those arrested in its \"War on Terror\", according to human rights lawyers. They have claimed that the US has tried to conceal the numbers and whereabouts of detainees. Although no credible information to support these assertions has ever come to light, the alleged justification for prison ships is primarily to remove the ability for jihadists to target a fixed location to facilitate the escape of high value targets, commanders, operations chiefs etc.\n\nThe U.S. government set up the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in 2002, a United States military prison located in Guantanamo Bay Naval Base. President Bush declared that the Geneva Convention, a treaty ratified by the U.S. and therefore among the highest law of the land, which protects prisoners of war, would not apply to Taliban and al Qaida detainees captured in Afghanistan. Since inmates were detained indefinitely without trial and several detainees have allegedly been tortured, this camp is considered to be a major breach of human rights by Amnesty International. The detention camp was set up by the U.S. government on Guantanamo Bay since the military base is arguably not legally domestic US territory and thus was a \"legal black hole.\"\nMost prisoners of Guantanamo were eventually freed without ever being charged with any crime, and were transferred to other countries.\n\nAccording to Joshua Goldstein, an international relations professor at the American University, The Global War on Terror has seen fewer war deaths than any other decade in the past century.\n\nThere is no widely agreed on figure for the number of people that have been killed so far in the War on Terror as it has been defined by the Bush Administration to include the war in Afghanistan, the war in Iraq, and operations elsewhere. The International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War and the Physicians for Social Responsibility and Physicians for Global Survival give total estimates ranging from to casualties. Another study from 2018 by Brown University's Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs puts the total number of casualties of the War on Terror in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan between 480,000 and 507,000. Some estimates for regional conflicts include the following:\n\n\n\n\nTotal American casualties from the War on Terror\n\nThe United States Department of Veterans Affairs has diagnosed more than 200,000 American veterans with PTSD since 2001.\n\n\nOn December 7, 2015, the Washington Post reported that since 2001, in five theaters of the war (Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Syria and Somalia) that the total number of terrorists killed ranges from 65,800 to 88,600, with the Obama administration being responsible for between 30,000 and 33,000.\n\nThe War on Terror, spanning decades, is a multi-trillion-dollar war.\n\nAccording to the Costs of War Project at Brown University's Watson Institute, the War on Terror will have cost $5.6 trillion for operations between 2001-2018 plus anticipated future costs of veterans' care.\n\nAccording to the Soufan Group in July 2015, the U.S. government was spending per day in operations against ISIS in Syria and Iraq.\n\nA March 2011 Congressional report estimated war spending through the fiscal year 2011 at $1.2 trillion, and future spending through 2021 (assuming a reduction to 45,000 troops) at $1.8 trillion. A June 2011 academic report covering additional areas of war spending estimated it through 2011 at $2.7 trillion, and long-term spending at $5.4 trillion including interest.\n\nCriticism of the War on Terror addressed the issues, morality, efficiency, economics, and other questions surrounding the War on Terror and made against the phrase itself, calling it a misnomer. The notion of a \"war\" against \"terrorism\" has proven highly contentious, with critics charging that it has been exploited by participating governments to pursue long-standing policy/military objectives, reduce civil liberties, and infringe upon human rights. It is argued that the term war is not appropriate in this context (as in War on Drugs) since there is no identifiable enemy and that it is unlikely international terrorism can be brought to an end by military means.\n\nOther critics, such as Francis Fukuyama, note that \"terrorism\" is not an enemy, but a tactic; calling it a \"war on terror\", obscures differences between conflicts such as anti-occupation insurgents and international mujahideen. With a military presence in Iraq and Afghanistan and its associated collateral damage, Shirley Williams maintains this increases resentment and terrorist threats against the West. There is also perceived U.S. hypocrisy, media-induced hysteria, and that differences in foreign and security policy have damaged America's reputation internationally.\n\nIn the 2010s, China has also been engaged in its own War on Terror, predominantly a domestic campaign in response to violent actions by Uighur separatist movements in the Xinjiang conflict. This campaign was widely criticized in international media due to the perception that it unfairly targets and persecutes Chinese Muslims, potentially resulting in a negative backlash from China's predominantly Muslim Uighur population.\n\nRussia has also been engaged on its own, also largely internally focused, counter-terrorism campaign often termed a war on terror, during the Second Chechen War, the Insurgency in the North Caucasus, and the Russian military intervention in the Syrian Civil War. Like China's war on terror, Russia's has also been focused on separatist and Islamist movements that use political violence to achieve their ends.\n\n\n"}
