{"id": "697618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697618", "title": "Abortion law", "text": "Abortion law\n\nAbortion law permits, prohibits, restricts, or otherwise regulates the availability of abortion. Abortion has been a controversial subject in many societies through history on religious, moral, ethical, practical, and political grounds. It has been banned frequently and otherwise limited by law. However, abortions continue to be common in many areas, even where they are illegal. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), abortion rates are similar in countries where the procedure is legal and in countries where it is not, due to unavailability of modern contraceptives in areas where abortion is illegal.\n\nAlso according to the WHO, the number of abortions worldwide is declining due to increased access to contraception. Almost two-thirds of the world's women currently reside in countries where abortion may be obtained on request for a broad range of social, economic, or personal reasons. Abortion laws vary widely by country. Three countries in Latin America (Dominican Republic, El Salvador, and Nicaragua) and two in Europe (Malta and the Vatican City) ban the procedure entirely.\n\nAbortion has existed since ancient times, with natural abortifacients being found amongst a wide variety of tribal people and in most written sources. Early texts contain no mention of abortion or abortion law. When it does appear, it is entailed in concerns about male property rights, preservation of social order, and the duty to produce fit citizens for the state or community. The harshest penalties were generally reserved for a woman who procured an abortion against her husband's wishes, and for slaves who produced abortion in a woman of high status. Religious texts often contained severe condemnations of abortion, recommending penance but seldom enforcing secular punishment. As a matter of common law in England and the United States, abortion was illegal anytime after quickening—when the movements of the fetus could first be felt by the woman. Under the born alive rule, the fetus was not considered a \"reasonable being\" \"in Rerum Natura\"; and abortion was not treated as murder in English law.\n\nIn the 20th century, many Western countries began to codify abortion law or place further restrictions on the practice. Anti-abortion groups were led by a combination of groups opposed to abortion on moral grounds, and by medical professionals who were concerned about the danger presented by the procedure and the regular involvement of non-medical personnel in performing abortions. Nevertheless, it became clear that illegal abortions continued to take place in large numbers even where abortions were rigorously restricted. It was difficult to obtain sufficient evidence to prosecute the women and abortion doctors, and judges and juries were often reluctant to convict. For example, Henry Morgentaler, a Canadian pro-choice advocate, was never convicted by a jury. He was acquitted by a jury in the 1973 court case, but the acquittal was overturned by five judges on the Quebec Court of Appeal in 1974. He went to prison, appealed, and was again acquitted. In total, he served 10 months, suffering a heart attack while in solitary confinement. Many were also outraged at the invasion of privacy and the medical problems resulting from abortions taking place illegally in medically dangerous circumstances. Political movements soon coalesced around the legalization of abortion and liberalization of existing laws.\n\nBy the mid 20th century, many countries had begun to liberalize abortion laws, at least when performed to protect the life of the woman, and in some cases on woman's request. Under Vladimir Lenin, the Soviet Union legalized abortions on request in 1920. The Bolsheviks saw abortion as a social evil created by the capitalist system, which left women without the economic means to raise children, forcing them to perform abortions. The Soviet state initially preserved the tsarists ban on abortion, which treated the practice as premeditated murder. However, abortion had been practiced by Russian women for decades and its incidence skyrocketed further as a result of the Russian Civil War, which had left the country economically devastated and made it extremely difficult for many people to have children. The Soviet state recognized that banning abortion would not stop the practice because women would continue using the services of private abortionists. In rural areas, these were often old women who had no medical training, which made their services very dangerous to the women's health. In November 1920 the Soviet regime legalized abortion in state hospitals. The state considered abortion as a temporary necessary evil, which would disappear in the future communist society, which would be able to provide for all the children conceived. In 1936 Joseph Stalin placed prohibitions on abortions, which restricted them to medically recommended cases only, in order to increase population growth after the enormous loss of life in World War 1 and the Russian Civil War. In the 1930's, several countries (Poland, Turkey, Denmark, Sweden, Iceland, Mexico) legalized abortion in some special cases (pregnancy from rape, threat to mother's health, fetal malformation). In 1948 abortion was legalized in Japan, 1952 in Yugoslavia (on a limited basis), and 1955 in the Soviet Union (on demand). Some Soviet allies (Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Romania) legalized abortion in the late 1950's under pressure from the Soviets. Abortion has remained legal on demand in Russia up to the present day, although that may soon change. Citing demographic, economic, and moral concerns, the pro-life parties of Russia, with some measured sympathy from president Vladimir Putin, have been pressuring the government to ban abortion outright, or at least restrict its availability. In particular, the Russian Duma has been debating a bill since 2015 to remove financial coverage for abortion from the national healthcare system. \n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Abortion Act of 1967 clarified and prescribed abortions as legal up to 24 weeks. Other countries soon followed, including Canada (1969), the United States (1973 in most states, pursuant to \"Roe v. Wade\", the federal Supreme Court decision which legalized abortion nationwide), Tunisia (1973), Austria (1974), France (1975), Sweden (1975), New Zealand (1977), Italy (1978), the Netherlands (1980), and Belgium (1990). However, these countries vary greatly in the circumstances under which abortion was to be permitted. In 1975 the West German Supreme Court struck down a law legalizing abortion, holding that they contradict the constitution's human rights guarantees. In 1976 a law was adopted which enabled abortions up to 12 weeks. After Germany's reunification, despite the legal status of abortion in the former East Germany, a compromise was reached which deemed most abortions up to 12 weeks legal. In jurisdictions governed under sharia law, abortion after 120th day from conception (19 weeks from LMP) is illegal, especially for those who follow the recommendations of the Hanafi legal school, while most jurists of the Maliki legal school \"believe that ensoulment occurs at the moment of conception, and they tend to forbid abortion at any point [similar to the Roman Catholic Church]. The other schools hold intermediate positions. [..] The penalty prescribed for an illegal abortion varies according to particular circumstances involved. According to sharia, it should be limited to a fine that is paid to the father or heirs of the fetus\". See also: Islam and abortion.\n\nThere are no international or multinational treaties that deal directly with abortion, but human rights law touches on the issues.\n\nThe American Convention on Human Rights, which in 2013 had 23 Latin American parties, declares human life as commencing with conception. In Latin America, abortion is only legal in Cuba (1965) and Uruguay (2012) It is also legal in Mexico City (the law on abortion in Mexico varies by state).\n\nIn the 2010 case of \"A, B and C v Ireland\", the European Court of Human Rights found that the European Convention on Human Rights did not include a right to an abortion.\n\nIn 2005 the United Nations Human Rights Committee ordered Peru to compensate a woman (known as K.L.) for denying her a medically indicated abortion; this was the first time a United Nations Committee had held any country accountable for not ensuring access to safe, legal abortion, and the first time the committee affirmed that abortion is a human right. K.L. received the compensation in 2016. In the 2016 case of \"Mellet v Ireland\", the UN HRC found Ireland's abortion laws violated International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights because Irish law banned abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormalities.\n\nWhile abortions are legal under certain conditions in most countries, these conditions vary widely. According to the United Nations publication \"World Abortion Policies 2013\",\nabortion is allowed in most countries (97 percent) in order to save a woman's life. Other commonly-accepted reasons are preserving physical (68 percent) or mental health (65 percent). In about half of countries abortion is accepted in the case of rape or incest (51 percent), and in case of foetal impairment (50 percent). Performing an abortion because of economic or social reasons is accepted in 35 percent of countries. Performing abortion only on the basis of a woman's request is allowed in 30 percent of countries, including in the US, Canada, most European countries, and China, with 42 percent of the world's population living in such countries.\n\nIn some countries, additional procedures must be followed before the abortion can be carried out even if the basic grounds for it are met. For example, in Finland, where abortions are not granted based merely on a woman's request, approval for each abortion must be obtained from two doctors (or one in special circumstances). The majority, 90% of abortions in Finland are performed for socio-economical reasons. How strictly all of the procedures dictated in the legislature are followed in practice is another matter. For example, in the United Kingdom Care Quality Commission's report in 2012 found that several NHS clinics were circumventing the law, using forms pre-signed by one doctor, thus allowing abortions to patients who only met with one doctor.\n\nThe effect of national laws for each of the 193 member states of the United Nations and two non-member States (Vatican City and Niue) is listed in the UN \"World Abortion Policies 2013\" report, and summarized in the following table. The publication includes information on national estimates of abortion rate, fertility rate, maternal mortality ratio, levels of contraceptive use, unmet need for family planning, and government support for family planning, as well as regional estimates of unsafe abortion.\n\nDespite a wide variation in the restrictions under which it is permitted, abortion is legal in most European countries. The exceptions are Malta, the Republic of Ireland (although the Republic of Ireland is currently in the process of reform), Northern Ireland, and the micro-states of Vatican City, San Marino, Liechtenstein and Andorra, where abortion is illegal or severely restricted. The other states with existent, but less severe restrictions are Poland and Monaco. All the remaining states make abortion legal on request or for social and economic reasons during the first trimester. When it comes to later-term abortions, there are very few with laws as liberal as those of the United States. Restrictions on abortion are most stringent in a few countries that are strongly observant of the Catholic faith.\n\nMost countries in the European Union allow abortion on demand during the first trimester, with Sweden, the UK and the Netherlands having more extended time limits. After the first trimester, abortion is generally allowed only under certain circumstances, such as risk to woman's life or health, fetal defects or other specific situations that may be related to the circumstances of the conception or the woman's age. For instance, in Austria, second trimester abortions are allowed only if there is a serious risk to physical health of woman (that cannot be averted by other means); risk to mental health of woman (that cannot be averted by other means); immediate risk to life of woman (that cannot be averted by other means); serious fetal impairment (physical or mental); or if the woman is under 14 years of age. Some countries, such as Denmark, allow abortion after the first trimester for a variety of reasons, including socioeconomic ones, but a woman needs an authorization to have such an abortion. Similarly, in Finland, technically abortions even just up to 12 weeks require authorization from two doctors (unless special circumstances), but in practice the authorization is only a rubber stamp and it is granted if the mother simply does not wish to have a baby.\n\nAccess to an abortion in much of Europe depends not as much on the letter of the law, but on the prevailing social views which lead to the interpretation of the laws. In much of Europe, laws which allow a second trimester abortion due to mental health concerns (when it is deemed that the woman's psychological health would suffer from the continuation of the pregnancy) have come to be interpreted very liberally, while in some areas it is difficult to have a legal abortion even in the early stages of pregnancy due to conscientious objection by doctors refusing to perform abortions against their personal moral or religious convictions.\n\nMalta is the only EU country that bans abortion in all cases, and does not have an exception for situations where the woman's life is in danger. The law however is not strictly enforced in relation to instances where a pregnancy endangers the woman's life. (See Abortion in Malta).\n\nAbortion in Italy was legalized in 1978. However, the law allows health professionals to refuse to perform abortion. This conscientious objection has the practical effect of restricting access to abortion.\n\nIn Ireland abortion is illegal with the exception of cases where a woman's life is endangered by the continuation of her pregnancy (see Abortion in the Republic of Ireland). However, in a 2018 referendum a large majority of Irish citizens voted to repeal the constitutional amendment prohibiting legislation relating to the termination of non-life threatening pregnancies replacing it with the following: As a result, Minister for Health Simon Harris has stated that legislation will be introduced in Dáil Éireann before the summer recess allowing termination of pregnancy on demand up to twelve weeks and will be signed into law by the President by the autumn of 2018 if passed by the Dáil and Seanad.\n\nAndorra allows for abortions only when there is a threat to the woman's life.\n\nEurope's formerly Communist countries have liberal abortion laws. An exception is Poland, a country with a strict abortion law. Abortion is allowed only in cases of risk to the life or health of the woman, when the pregnancy is a result of a criminal act (the criminal act has to be confirmed by a prosecutor), or when the fetus is seriously malformed. A doctor who performs an abortion which is deemed to not have a legal basis is subject to criminal prosecution, and, out of fear of prosecution, doctors avoid abortions, except in the most extreme circumstances.\n\nMost European countries have laws which stipulate that minor girls need their parents' consent or that the parents must be informed of the abortion. In most of these countries however, this rule can be circumvented if a committee agrees that the girl may be posed at risk if her parents find out about the pregnancy, or that otherwise it is in her best interests to not notify her parents. The interpretation in practice of these laws depends from region to region, as with the other abortion laws. Some countries differentiate between younger pregnant minors and older ones, with the latter not subjected to parental restrictions (for example under or above 16).\nIn countries where abortion is illegal or restricted, it is common for women to travel to neighboring countries with more liberal laws. It was estimated in 2007 that over 6,000 Irish women travel to Britain to have abortions every year.\n\nIn 1973, the U.S. Supreme Court decision \"Roe v. Wade\" legalized abortion nationwide. It established a minimal period during which abortion must be legal (with more or fewer restrictions throughout the pregnancy). This basic framework, modified in \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" (1992), is still in effect today. In accordance with \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\", states cannot place legal restrictions posing an undue burden for \"the purpose or effect of placing a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking an abortion of a nonviable fetus.\" Although this legal framework established by the Supreme Court is very liberal (particularly with regard to the gestational age), in practice the effective availability of abortion varies significantly from state to state, as many counties have no abortion providers. This creates a paradox in the US, where the abortion law of the United States is one of the most liberal in the world, but \"de facto\" access to abortion services is quite poor in many parts of the country.\n\nAccording to a report by Women on Waves, approximately 25% of the world's population lives in countries with \"highly restrictive abortion laws\" - that is, laws which either completely ban abortion, or allow it only to save the mother's life. This category of countries includes most countries in Latin America, most countries of MENA, approximately half of the countries of Africa, seven countries in the Asia-Pacific region, as well as two countries (Malta and Ireland) in Europe.\n\nLatin America is considered the world region with the most restrictive abortion laws. Fewer than 3% of the women in this region live in countries with liberal abortion laws — that is, where abortion is permitted either without restriction as to reason or on socioeconomic grounds. Some of the countries of Central America, notably El Salvador, have also come to international attention due to very forceful enforcement of the laws.\n\nControversy over the beginning of pregnancy occurs in different contexts, particularly in a legal context, and is particularly discussed within the abortion debate from the point of measuring the gestational age of the pregnancy. Pregnancy can be measured from a number of convenient points, including the day of last menstruation, ovulation, fertilization, implantation and chemical detection. A common medical way to calculate gestational age is to measure pregnancy from the first day of the last menstrual cycle. However, not all legal systems use this measure for the purpose of abortion law; for example countries such as Belgium, France, Luxembourg use the term \"pregnancy\" in the abortion law to refer to the time elapsed from the sexual act that led to conception, which is presumed to be 2 weeks after the end of the last menstrual period.\n\nExceptions in abortion laws occur either in countries where abortion is, as a general rule illegal, or in countries which have abortion on request with gestational limits (for example if a country allows abortion on request until 12 weeks, it may create exceptions to this general gestation limit for later abortions in specific circumstances).\n\nThere are a few common exceptions sometimes found in abortion laws. Legal domains which do not have abortion on demand will often allow it when the health of the mother is at stake. \"Health of the mother\" may mean something different in different areas: for example, the Republic of Ireland allows abortion only to save the life of the mother, whereas pro-life advocates in the United States argue health exceptions are used so broadly as to render a ban essentially meaningless.\n\nLaws allowing abortion in cases of rape or incest often go together. For example, before \"Roe v. Wade\", thirteen US states allowed abortion in the case of either rape or incest, but only Mississippi permitted abortion of pregnancies due to rape, and no state permitted it for just incest.\n\nMany countries allow for abortion only through the first or second trimester, and some may allow abortion in cases of fetal defects, e.g., Down syndrome or where the pregnancy is the result of a sexual crime.\n\nLaws in some countries with liberal abortion laws protect access to abortion services. Such legislation often seeks to guard abortion clinics against obstruction, vandalism, picketing, and other actions, or to protect patients and employees of such facilities from threats and harassment.\nOther laws create a perimeter around a facility, known variously as a \"buffer zone\", \"bubble zone\", or \"access zone\". This area is intended to limit how close to these facilities demonstration by those who oppose abortion can approach. Protests and other displays are restricted to a certain distance from the building, which varies depending upon the law, or are prohibited altogether. Similar zones have also been created to protect the homes of abortion providers and clinic staff. Bubble zone laws are divided into \"fixed\" and \"floating\" categories. Fixed bubble zone laws apply to the static area around the facility itself, and floating laws to objects in transit, such as people or cars. Because of conflicts between anti-abortion activists on one side and women seeking abortion and medical staff who provides abortion on the other side, some laws are quite strict: in South Africa for instance, any person who prevents the lawful termination of a pregnancy or obstructs access to a facility for the termination of a pregnancy faces up to 10 years in prison (section 10.1 (c) of the Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act).\n\nAustralia\nCanada\nGermany\nIreland\nSouth Africa\nUnited Kingdom\nUnited States\nEuropean Court of Human Rights\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22977115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22977115", "title": "AfrikaBurn", "text": "AfrikaBurn\n\nAfrikaBurn is an official Burning Man regional event, held annually in the Tankwa Karoo National Park in South Africa since 2007. It is centred on the construction of temporary artworks in a semi-desert environment, some of which are burnt towards the end of the event. Many attendees wear elaborate costumes and create decorated \"mutant vehicles\".\n\nAfrica Burns Creative Projects (AfrikaBurn) was created in 2007 as a not-for-profit company, with the intention that it would serve as a vehicle for the creation and co-ordination of an independent South African Burning Man regional event. AfrikaBurn was originally conceived by Paul Jorgensen. The company's founding members were Richard Bowsher, Paul Jorgensen, Monique Schiess, Mike 't Sas-Rolfes, Liane Visser and Robert Weinek. The company's initial directors were Paul Jorgenson, Monique Schiess, Michael 't Sas-Rolfes, Liane Visser & Robert Weinek.\n\nThe event has been running since 2007, with all events to date held on a private farm called Stonehenge, which is adjacent to the Tankwa Karoo National Park. The farm is very isolated, as it is situated half-way along the R355, a long untarred road between Calvinia and Ceres in the Northern Cape Province of South Africa.\n\nThe event was originally called Afrika Burns, however owing to concerns about the name having possible negative connotations there was a public call for proposals on 15 May 2008. On 16 July 2008 the new name, AfrikaBurn, was officially announced via email. The new name preserves the identity of the event, but rules out possible negative interpretations by changing the name from something that happens ('burns') to Africa, to something that happens (a 'burn') in Africa.\n\nIn 2010 the dates of the annual event were moved to earlier in the year, as autumn weather is better suited to the event, and it is currently possible for a public holiday (or in some years two public holidays) to be included within the week during which the event runs. It also means that it is not so close to Burning Man, to allow for more international participants.\n\nThe theme for any AfrikaBurn is intended as a point of possible connection, or inspiration. The theme is not enforced, and art or performance is not necessarily in line with the theme.\n\nThe current directors of the organisation are Samantha Benzulla, Monique Schiess, Abi Case, Lorraine Tanner, Robert Weinek, and Adriaan Wessels. \n\nBy analogy to the Man at Burning Man, the main sculpture at the event is called the San Clan. It is designed to look like a San rock art glyph of a group of people. The intention is to convey the idea of unity and community at the event. Like some sculptures at the event, it is burnt. The burn used to take place on the Saturday night, but is now scheduled for Friday nights in order to accommodate weather delays and provide participants from far afield with more time to return home from the event. \n\nAs a regional Burning Man event, AfrikaBurn adheres to the ten principles of Burning Man and added another in 2014. Among these guiding principles are the Leave No Trace philosophy, self-expression, self-reliance, and communal effort. The 11th principle, 'Each One Teach One', was added to encourage the sharing of knowledge throughout the community, in order to ensure the uptake of culture matches the growth in numbers. Money is not allowed on the camping site of the event since nothing is for sale, if people need something they either trade it with something else or simply ask for it.\n\nPets are not allowed at the event. This is due to concerns for the safety of both the animals (loud noises and an inhospitable environment), and the participants. In addition, fireworks, flares and fire lanterns are not permitted. \n\nTheme camps are one of the key components of vibrant regional Burning Man events. Theme camps are established by participants to enhance the experience for all participants.\n\nMajor theme camps from the last few years include \"Alienz Coffee Shop\", \"BeDazzled\", \"Birthday Suits\", \"Burning Mail\", \"Camp Anvil\", \"Camp High Tea\", \"Camp Skaduwee\", \"Desert Magic\", \"Flow Arts Commune\", \"Fractal Chill Ethiopian Coffee House\", \"Love All Tennis\", \"Magical Mystery Mob\", \"New Beginnings\", \"Camp Now!\", \"Rust 'n Dust\", \"Smokescreen\", \"Space Cowboys\", \"State of Bliss\", \"Sunset Oasis\", \"The Emperor's New Theme Camp\", \"The Friend Zone\", \"The Grease Monkeys\", \"The Pancake People\", \"The Purple Spanking Booth\", \"The Steampunk Saloon\", \"The Tankwa Town Library\", \"The Theatre of Playful Banter\", \"The Vuvustasie\", and \"The Wild Ass Saloon\". Each year, the number of Theme Camps grows in line with the increase in numbers.\n\n\"MOOP\", or Matter Out Of Place, is the term for litter. Reducing and removing MOOP is part of the Leave No Trace philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "9725728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9725728", "title": "Amara language", "text": "Amara language\n\nNAmara is an Austronesian language spoken by about 1200 individuals along the northwest coast of West New Britain Province, Papua New Guinea on the island of New Britain. Speakers have close to a 100% bilingualism with Bariai, and many also speak Tok Pisin.\n"}
{"id": "13475694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13475694", "title": "Aso Oke", "text": "Aso Oke\n\nAso oke fabric, (Yoruba: Așǫ oke, pronounced \"ah-SHAW-okay\") is a hand loomed cloth woven by the Yoruba people of western Nigeria. Aso oke means \"top cloth\" in the English language. Usually woven by men, the fabric is used to make men's gowns, called Agbada, women's wrappers, called iro, and men's hats, called fila.\nIt is from the Yoruba culture in Ondo, Oyo, Ogun, Ekiti, Lagos, and the Osun States in southwestern Nigeria.\n\nThe way of making Aso-oke cloth has remained the same for centuries, however new techniques and production methods have been looked into to eliminate the weight and thickness of the Aso-Oke cloth, and to make it more accessible for casual wear.\n\nOther ways that designers have made this old traditional cloth become more modern is to “structurally manipulate and combine animal and floral motifs into definite shapes of grids and geometry, suitable for computer design applications.” The basis of more traditional motifs would have originated from fables and folklore. \nAso oke fabric is often worn with aran, a brown velvet with concentric designs.\n\nWhen people speak of an aso oke, they are usually referring to the traditional Yoruba women's garment. It consists of four parts:\n\n\nNigerians around the world wear aso oke fabric for special occasions including holidays, weddings, funerals and chieftain title ceremonies. All followers of the Yoruba religion also wear aso oke fabrics and hats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38132317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38132317", "title": "Barbara Grace Tucker", "text": "Barbara Grace Tucker\n\nBarbara Grace Tucker is an Australian born peace activist. She is a native of the Melbourne suburb of Glen Waverley and travelled widely before settling in Britain in the early 1980s.\nShe joined the London Parliament Square Peace Campaign of Brian Haw in December 2005. This round-the-clock campaign had been initiated by Haw in June 2001 to protest the sanctions against Iraq which had devastated Iraqi society and had, according to UNICEF, killed some 500,000 children.\nIn the seven years or so since Tucker's arrival she has been arrested 47 times–usually on charges of \"unauthorised demonstration\". In 2008 she served two weeks in prison for breach of police bail, and in 2011 she served a nine-week prison sentence in Holloway Prison.\n\nSince January 2012 she was denied a tent, blankets or sleeping bag and then slept in a chair, until that too was confiscated. Tucker has been treated for exposure and has spent some time on an intravenous drip. In January 2013 Tucker started a hunger strike after protesting in the square for a total of eight years. She and her supporters vowed to continue their demonstration, and did so until later in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35328377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35328377", "title": "Bible translations into the languages of India", "text": "Bible translations into the languages of India\n\nLanguages spoken in India belong to several language families, the major ones being the Indo-Aryan languages spoken by 75% of Indians and the Dravidian languages spoken by 20% of Indians. Other languages belong to the Austroasiatic, Sino-Tibetan, Tai-Kadai, and a few other minor language families and isolates. India has the world's second-highest number of languages (780), after Papua New Guinea (839).\n\n\nA Gujarati translation of the Bible had been issued by the Serampore Mission Press in 1820, and William Carey had contributed to it. James Skinner and William Fyvie of the London Missionary Society continued the work. These were all superseded by J. V. S. Taylor's 1861 \"Old Version\" which remains the standard version today.\n\nIn collaboration with \"Church centric bible translation\", Free Bibles India has published a Gujarati translation online.\n\nIn 2016, the New Testament of New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures was released by Jehovah's Witnesses in Gujarati. It was published online (also offline in PDF format) with mobile versions released through \"JW Library\" application in App stores.\n\nThe British and Foreign Bible Society produced translations in Western Punjabi in Persian script and Roman script, and Eastern Punjabi in Gurmukhi script. The Western Punjabi Persian script New Testament of 1912 was revised in 1952 and some books of the Old Testament were published.\n\nIn collaboration with \"Church centric bible translation\", Free Bibles India has published a Punjabi translation online.\n\nIn 2011, the New Testament of New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures was released by Jehovah's Witnesses in Punjabi. It was published online (also offline in PDF format) with mobile versions released through \"JW Library\" application in App stores.\n\nIn collaboration with \"Church centric bible translation\", Free Bibles India has published an Oriya translation online.\n\nNathan Brown, a Baptist, translated Bible into Assamese and Shan.\n\nIn collaboration with \"Church centric bible translation\", Free Bibles India has published an Assamese translation online.\n\nWilliam Carey translated Bible into Bengali Bible into Bengali.\n\nIn collaboration with \"Church centric bible translation\", Free Bibles India has published a Bengali translation online.\n\nPaniya is a Southern Dravidian language mainly found in scheduled castes in Kerala. Stephen Daniel translated the portions of Bible into Paniya language.\n\nTheyyam Mancheyaathaayina Kathe, the Translation of the New Testament in the Paniya language was pioneered and presented by Mathews Vergis to the Paniya tribe on 30 December 2008. The Paniyas have historically worked as agricultural laborers. The Paniyas are mainly found in the borders of Kerala and Mysore, with a dwindling population of about approximately 120,000. Initially only the Gospel of Luke was translated and presented to the tribe. The Paniya language has no script of its own and hence Mathews Vergis used the Malayalam script to publish the Bible in their language.\n\nVasa Nyama, the Translation of the New Testament in the Jennu Kuruba language was published by Mathews Vergis to the Jennu Kuruba tribe on 10 September 2015. People of the Jennu Kuruba tribe are traditionally honey gatherers and are found in forests in Southern central India. Since the forests are getting slaughtered and synthetic honey is replacing natural honey, the tribe is decaying and the people are getting scattered. \n\nInitially only the Gospel of Mark was translated and presented to the tribe. Mathews Vergis completed and presented the entire New Testament because of the earnest and eagerness of the Jennu Kuruba people, though few in number. The Jennu Kuruba language has no script of its own and hence Mathews Vergis used the Kannada script to present the Bible in their language. This is the first piece of literature in print ever since the existence of this tribe.\n\nNavo Karar, the translation of the New Testament in the Benjara language of the Benjara ethnic tribe was published by Mathews Vergis on 12 August 2015. The people of the Benjara tribe migrated from Afghanistan and settled in Rajasthan, India long ago. They were salt merchants and suppliers of bullocks. Being nomadic in nature, they spread to different parts of India, namely Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Maharashtra. In Karnataka they are known as Lambanis and in other places as Lambadis. Among these states, the state of Karnataka has about a million Lambanis – the highest in India. The Benjara language has no script and the people are familiar with the language of the home states. Thus Kannada script is used to present the Bible to the Lambanis to understand the Bible in their language. This is the first piece of literature to be printed in the Benjara language.\n\nMarkana Nalla Shuddhi, the translation of the 'Gospel according to Mark' in the Kulu Language spoken by the ethnic Korama and Koracha tribes of South India, was pioneered by Mathews Vergis and was presented to the tribe on 28 December 2015. Though the language is spoken by around 200,000 of people belonging to the Koracha and Korama tribes, it failed to find a place in the dictionary of Indian tribal languages along with scores of other tribal languages recorded in the Census taken by the Government of India a decade and half ago. It was the request of the people of the Koracha and Korama tribes that propelled Mathews Vergis to pioneer the translation of the Gospel according to Mark into the Kulu language. Incidentally this is the first piece of literature in print ever since the existence of the Koracha and Korama tribes on earth.\n\nParts of The New Testament were translated into the Tulu language of Karnataka in Kannada script in 1842 and the complete New Testament in 1847 by the Basel Missionaries in Mangalore.\n"}
{"id": "18959620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18959620", "title": "Boris Dekanidze", "text": "Boris Dekanidze\n\nBoris Dekanidze (; 13 December 1962 – 12 July 1995) was the head of the \"Vilnius Brigade\" criminal organization in Lithuania. In 1994, he was convicted of ordering the murder of Lithuanian journalist Vitas Lingys and was executed by Lithuania. Dekanidze was the last person executed in Lithuania prior to the abolition of death penalty in 1998.\n\nDekanidze was born on 13 December 1962 in Vilnius to Georgian Jewish immigrants. He was a stateless person, not having been granted citizenship in Lithuania or Georgia. In Vilnius, he was the leader of the \"Vilnius Brigade\" criminal organization. The \"Vilnius Brigade\" mostly consisted of Lithuanian-born people of various ethnic groups (mostly Jews, Russians, Poles and Lithuanians), although Boris Dekanidze as well as his brother were Georgian Jews.\n\nIn 1993, after receiving a number of death threats, Vitas Lingys, one of the founders and publishers of the newspaper \"Respublika\", was shot at point-blank range near his home in Vilnius. Dekanidze was arrested and charged with ordering the murder, which police said was carried out by Igor Akhremov.\n\nIn 1994, Dekanidze was convicted of deliberate murder by a three-judge panel. Dakanidze claimed he was innocent, and the evidence against him was primarily the testimony of Igor Akhremov (fellow member of \"Vilnius Brigade\"), who claimed to have carried out the killing on Dekanidze's orders. On 10 November 1994, Dekanidze was sentenced to death and Akhremov was sentenced to life imprisonment. Lithuanian authorities shut down a nuclear power plant after a terrorist threat was made against it the day after the convictions were handed down. Dekanidze appealed the decision to the Supreme Court, but it ruled in February 1995 that there were no grounds for reviewing the death sentence. His appeal for clemency to President Algirdas Brazauskas was also refused.\n\nDekanidze was executed on 12 July 1995 in Vilnius by a single shot to the back of his head. The execution has been criticized at being carried out even as the Lithuanian parliament was debating abolition of the death penalty.\n\nDekanidze's execution was the last act of death penalty in Lithuania and it was finally abolished for all crimes in 1998 after the Lithuanian Constitutional Court ruled that the death penalty was unconstitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57305151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57305151", "title": "Califano v. Goldfarb", "text": "Califano v. Goldfarb\n\nCalifano v. Goldfarb, 430 U.S. 199 (1977), was a decision by the United States Supreme Court, which held that the different treatment of men and women mandated by 42 U.S.C. § 402(f)(1)(D) constituted invidious discrimination against female wage earners by affording them less protection for their surviving spouses than is provided to male employees, and therefore violated the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The case was brought by a widower who was denied survivor benefits on the grounds that he had not been receiving at least one-half support from his wife when she died. Justice Brennan delivered the opinion of the court, ruling unconstitutional the provision of the Social Security Act which set forth a gender-based distinction between widows and widowers, whereby Social Security Act survivors benefits were payable to a widower only if he was receiving at least half of his support from his late wife, while such benefits based on the earnings of a deceased husband were payable to his widow regardless of dependency. The Court found that this distinction deprived female wage earners of the same protection that a similarly situated male worker would have received, violating due process and equal protection.\n\nLeon Goldfarb, a widower in the state of New York, applied for survivor benefits under the Social Security Act. Leon Goldfarb's late wife had worked as a secretary for New York City public schools for nearly twenty-five years and paid all of her social security taxes until her death in 1968. Upon his wife's death, Leon Goldfarb applied for survivor benefits but was denied. The relevant statute, 42 U.S.C § 402(f)(1)(D), mandated that surviving widowers must meet the burden of proving that they had been receiving over half of their financial support from their wives. The law made no such requirement for widows, who would be provided survivor benefits regardless of their dependency on their husbands.\n\nGoldfarb challenged the constitutionality of the statute in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. He was represented by attorneys from the Women's Rights Litigation Clinic and the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation. The lower court ruled in Goldfarb's favor, holding that the provision of the Social Security Act that denied benefits to widowers was unconstitutional as discriminating against widowers on the basis of sex. The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare appealed the decision to the Supreme Court.\n\nGoldfarb was represented by future Supreme Court justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who at the time was co-founder and general counsel of the Women's Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties Union. This case was one of several gender discrimination cases that Ginsburg successfully argued in front of the Supreme Court between 1973 and 1976. Similar to her arguments in \"Frontiero v. Richardson\", Ginsburg argued in her brief that a reliance on gender stereotypes which served to devalue women's roles as breadwinners constituted gender-based discrimination in violation of equal protection. She argued that the social security statute in question \"assume[d] gainful employment as a domain in which men come first, women second,\" and that the statute favored \"one type of marital unit over another.\" \nIn a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court upheld the decision of the District Court. Justice Brennan's opinion, which was joined by Justice White, Justice Marshall, and Justice Powell, determined that the gender-based distinction violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. The Court agreed with Ginsburg's arguments, noting that the distinction in the federal requirements \"deprive[s] women of protection for their families which men receive as a result of their employment.\" The Court based its decision on the precedent established in prior cases \"Frontiero\" and \"Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld:\"\"Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld\", like the instant case, presented the question in the context of the [Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance] program. There the Court held unconstitutional a provision that denied father's insurance benefits to surviving widowers with children in their care, while authorizing similar mother's benefits to similarly situated widows... Precisely the same reasoning condemns the gender-based distinction made by § 402(f)(1)(D) in this case. For that distinction, too, operates ‘to deprive women of protection for their families which men receive as a result of their employment’: social security taxes were deducted from Hannah Goldfarb's salary during the quarter century she worked as a secretary, yet, in consequence of § 402(f)(1)(D), she also ‘not only failed to receive for her (spouse) the same protection which similarly situated male worker would have received (for his spouse) but she also was deprived of a portion of her own earnings in order to contribute to the fund out of which benefits would be paid to others.’ The Court rejected the government's argument that the Court should focus solely on the distinction drawn between widowers and widows, based on the notion that the statute discriminates not against the covered wage earning female, but rather against her surviving widower, who was burdened with proof of dependency. The Court disagreed, stating that Mrs. Goldfarb \"worked and paid social security taxes... at the same rate as her male colleagues\" yet received narrower insurance protection than a male colleague. The Court found that this distinction requires the equal protection challenge in the case to focus on the gender-based discrimination against women and not only the distinction between widowers and widows.\n\nBased on an examination of the legislative history of the statute, the Court found that there existed \"an intention to aid the dependent spouses of deceased wage earners, coupled with a presumption that wives are usually dependent\" in the statute. Rejecting the \"archaic and overbroad\" generalizations that a wife is more likely to be dependent on her husband than a husband on his wife, the Court concluded that these presumptions cannot justify a gender-based discrimination when distributing employment-related benefits. \n\nJustice Stevens wrote in concurrence with the majority. Rejecting that the rationale behind the statutory scheme was justifiably based on administrative convenience or based on a 'policy of cushioning the financial impact of spousal loss upon the sex for which that loss imposes a disproportionately heavy burden,' he concurs with the Court's judgment as to the lack of justification for the disparate treatment of genders, but is \"persuaded that the relevant discrimination in this case is against surviving male spouses, rather than against deceased female wage earners.\" \n\nIn his dissent, which was joined by Chief Justice Burger, Justice Stewart and Justice Blackmun, Rehnquist disagreed that the classification was discriminatory. Rehnquist argued that Congress' purpose in adopting these provisions for dependency was \"to avoid the burden and expense of specific case-by-case determination in the large number of cases where dependency is objectively probable.\" Because of the likelihood that a widow would be dependent on her husband, and not the other way around, Rehnquist argued that such a justifiably rational basis is permissible under the Fifth Amendment for the purpose of aiding administrative functions.\n\nThis ruling required an amendment to the Social Security Act in order to eliminate the burden of proof for widowers. The new language provided equal protection for both genders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30089656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30089656", "title": "Castoff (publishing)", "text": "Castoff (publishing)\n\nIn book publishing, casting off is the process of estimating the number of signatures required to typeset a manuscript. An accurate castoff (or cast off) is important because the page length of a book affects many variables, including the cost of producing the book, the cover price, how many books can fit in a carton, and the width of the spine.\n\nCasting off generally begins by counting the words or characters in the manuscript, usually using a word processor or text editor. This word count is then divided by an estimate of the number of words or characters per full page of a model book, i.e., a previously published book with approximately the same trim size and type specifications to be applied to the manuscript.\n\nThe editor must then account for anything else that will add pages to the finished book, such as half-title and title pages, the copyright page, part-title pages, chapter openers, photographs, illustrations, charts, tables, or lines of poetry. In addition, the editor must anticipate any elements that will be added later in proofs, such as a preface or index.\n\nOnce the editor has estimated the pages required to typeset the book, it must be rounded to the nearest multiple of sixteen (a signature) or eight (a half-signature) by adding blank pages or killing (editing so as to remove) pages. Editors tend to round up rather than down, because if the book requires more pages than anticipated, it will cost more to produce, but fewer pages and therefore lower production costs are less problematic.\n\nWhile some software exists to help editors in accurately casting off manuscripts, even an experienced editor often can't foresee the many variables that will affect a book's length, some of which may not arise until the book is well into production.\n"}
{"id": "26515053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26515053", "title": "Climate change, industry and society", "text": "Climate change, industry and society\n\nThis article is about climate change, industry and society.\n\nHumans are exposed to climate change through changing weather patterns (temperature, precipitation, sea-level rise and more frequent extreme events) and indirectly through changes in water, air and food quality and changes in ecosystems, agriculture, industry and settlements and the economy (Confalonieri \"et al\"., 2007:393). According to a literature assessment by Confalonieri \"et al\". (2007:393), the effects of climate change to date have been small, but are projected to progressively increase in all countries and regions.\n\nWith high confidence, Confalonieri \"et al\". (2007:393) concluded that climate change had altered the seasonal distribution of some allergenic pollen species. With medium confidence, they concluded that climate change had:\n\nWith high confidence, IPCC (2007d:48) projected that:\n\nWith very high confidence, Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007:393) concluded that economic development was an important component of possible adaptation to climate change. Economic growth on its own, however, was not judged to be sufficient to insulate the world's population from disease and injury due to climate change. The manner in which economic growth occurs was judged to be important, along with how the benefits of growth are distributed in society. Examples of other important factors in determining the health of populations were listed as: education, health care, and public-health infrastructure.\n\nAccording to a 2009 journal paper by UCL academics, climate change and global warming pose the biggest threat to human health in the 21st century.\n\nWith high confidence, Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) projected that malnutrition would increase due to climate change. This link is associated with climate variability and change. Drought reduces variety in diets and reduces overall consumption. This can lead to micronutrient deficiencies.\n\nThe World Health Organization (Campbell-Lendrum \"et al.\", 2003) conducted a regional and global assessment to quantify the amount of premature morbidity and mortality due to a range of factors, including climate change. Projections were made over future climate change impacts. Limited adjustments for adaptation were included in the estimates based on these projections. Projected relative risks attributable to climate change in 2030 varied by health outcome and region. Risks were largely negative, with most of the projected disease burden due to increases in diarrhoeal disease and malnutrition. These increases were primarily in low-income populations already experiencing a large burden of disease.\n\nWith high confidence, Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) projected that climate change would increase the number of people suffering from death, disease and injury from heat waves, floods, storms, fires and droughts.\n\n\nFloods are low-probability, high-impact events that can overwhelm physical infrastructure and human communities. Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) reported that major storm and flood disasters have occurred in the last two decades.\n\nThe impacts of weather disasters is considerable and unequally distributed. For example, natural disasters have been shown to result in increased domestic violence against - and post-traumatic stress disorders in – women. In terms of deaths and populations affected, floods and tropical cyclones have the greatest impact in South Asia and Latin America. Vulnerability to weather disasters depends on the attributes of the person at risk, including where they live and their age, as well as other social and environmental factors. High-density populations in low-lying coastal regions experience a high health burden from weather disasters.\n\n\nHot days, hot nights and heatwaves have become more frequent. Heatwaves are associated with marked short-term increases in mortality. For example, in August 2003, a heatwave in Europe resulted in excess mortality in the range of 35,000 total deaths.\n\nHeat-related morbidity and mortality is projected to increase. The health burden could be relatively small for moderate heatwaves in temperate regions, because deaths occur primarily in susceptible persons.\n\n\nThe effects of drought on health include deaths, malnutrition, infectious diseases and respiratory diseases. Countries within the \"Meningitis Belt\" in semi-arid sub-Saharan Africa experience the highest endemicity and epidemic frequency of meningococcal meningitis in Africa, although other areas in the Rift Valley, the Great Lakes, and southern Africa are also affected. The spatial distribution, intensity, and seasonality of meningococcal (epidemic) meningitis appear to be strongly linked to climate and environmental factors, particularly drought. The cause of this link is not fully understood.\n\n\nIn some regions, changes in temperature and precipitation are projected to increase the frequency and severity of fire events. Forest and bush fires cause burns, damage from smoke inhalation and other injuries.\n\nGlobal warming may extend the favourable zones for vectors conveying infectious disease such as dengue fever, West Nile virus, and malaria. In poorer countries, this may simply lead to higher incidence of such diseases. In richer countries, where such diseases have been eliminated or kept in check by vaccination, draining swamps and using pesticides, the consequences may be felt more in economic than health terms. The World Health Organization (WHO) says global warming could lead to a major increase in insect-borne diseases in Britain and Europe, as northern Europe becomes warmer, ticks—which carry encephalitis and lyme disease—and sandflies—which carry visceral leishmaniasis—are likely to move in. However, malaria has always been a common threat in European past, with the last epidemic occurring in the Netherlands during the 1950s. In the United States, Malaria has been endemic in as much as 36 states (including Washington, North Dakota, Michigan and New York) until the 1940s. By 1949, the country was declared free of malaria as a significant public health problem, after more than 4,650,000 house DDT spray applications had been made.\n\nThe World Health Organisation estimates 150,000 deaths annually \"as a result of climate change\", of which half are in the Asia-Pacific region. In April 2008, it reported that, as a result of increased temperatures, the number of malaria infections is expected to increase in the highland areas of Papua New Guinea.\n\nWith high confidence, Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) projected that climate change would continue to change the range of some infectious disease vectors. Vector-borne diseases (VBD) are infections transmitted by the bite of infected arthropod species, such as mosquitoes, ticks, triatomine bugs, sandflies, and blackflies. There is some evidence of climate-change-related shifts in the distribution of tick vectors of disease, of some (non-malarial) mosquito vectors in Europe and North America. Climate change has also been implicated in changes in the breeding and migration dates of several bird species. Several species of wild bird can act as carriers of human pathogens as well as of vectors of infectious agents.\n\nWith low confidence, Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) concluded that climate change would increase the number of people at risk of dengue. Dengue is the world's most important vector-borne viral disease. Several studies have reported associations between dengue and climate, however, these associations are not entirely consistent.\n\nThe spatial distribution, intensity of transmission, and seasonalty of malaria is influenced by climate in Sub-saharan Africa. Rainfall can be a limiting factor for mosquito populations and there is some evidence of reductions in transmission associated with decadal decreases in rainfall. The effects of observed climate change on the geographical distribution of malaria and its transmission intensity in highland regions remains controversial. There is no clear evidence that malaria has been affected by climate change in South America or in continental regions of the Russian Federation. There is still much uncertainty about the potential impact of climate change on malaria at local and global scales.\n\nA paper by researchers from the University of Oxford and the University of Florida published in Nature in May 2010 concluded that claims that a warming climate has led to more widespread disease and death due to malaria are largely at odds with the evidence, and that \"predictions of an intensification of malaria in a warmer world, based on extrapolated empirical relationships or biological mechanisms, must be set against a context of a century of warming that has seen marked global declines in the disease and a substantial weakening of the global correlation between malaria endemicity and climate.\"\n\nThere is good evidence that diseases transmitted by rodents sometimes increase during heavy rainfall and flooding because of altered patterns of human-pathogen-rodent contact.\n\nWith very high confidence, Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) concluded that climate change would have mixed effects on malaria. Malaria is a complex disease to model and all of the published models assessed by Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) had limited parametrization of some key factors. Parametrization is used in climate models because the resolution of models is insufficient to resolve some physical processes. Given this limitation, models assessed by Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) projected that, particularly in Africa, climate change would be associated with geographical expansions of the areas suitable for \"Plasmodium falciparum\" malaria in some regions, and contractions in other regions. Projections also suggested that some regions would experience a longer season of transmission. Projections suggested expansions in vector species that carry dengue for parts of Australia and New Zealand.\n\nWith medium confidence, Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) concluded that climate change would increase the burden of diarrhoeal diseases. Childhood mortality due to diarrhoea in low-income countries, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa, remains high. This is despite improvements in care. Several studies have shown that transmission of enteric pathogens is higher during the rainy season. Some studies have found that higher temperature was strongly associated with increased episodes of diarrhoeal disease in adults and children in Peru. Campbell-Lendrum \"et al.\" (2003) projected that climate change would increase the burden of diarrhoeal diseases in low-income regions by approximately 2 to 5% in 2020.\n\nWith high confidence, Confalonieri \"et al.\" (2007) projected that climate change would increase cardio-respiratory morbidity and mortality associated with ground-level ozone. Ground-level ozone is both naturally occurring and is the primary constituent of urban smog. Ozone in smog is formed through chemical reactions involving nitrogen oxides and other compounds. The reaction is a photochemical reaction, meaning that it involves electromagnetic radiation, and occurs in the presence of bright sunshine and high temperatures. Exposure to elevated concentrations of ozone is associated with increased hospital admissions for pneumonia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, allergic rhinitis and other respiratory diseases, and with premature mortality.\n\nBackground levels of ground-level ozone have risen since pre-industrial times because of increasing emissions of methane, carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides. This trend is expected to continue into the mid-21st century.\n\nCold-waves continue to be a problem in northern latitudes, where very low temperatures can be reached in a few hours and extend over long periods. Reductions in cold-deaths due to climate change are projected to be greater than increases in heat-related deaths in the UK.\n\nThe most direct effect of climate change on humans might be the impacts of hotter temperatures themselves. Extreme high temperatures increase the number of people who die on a given day for many reasons: people with heart problems are vulnerable because one's cardiovascular system must work harder to keep the body cool during hot weather, heat exhaustion, and some respiratory problems increase. Global warming could mean more cardiovascular diseases, doctors warn. Higher air temperature also increase the concentration of ozone at ground level. In the lower atmosphere, ozone is a harmful pollutant. It damages lung tissues and causes problems for people with asthma and other lung diseases.\n\nRising temperatures have two opposing direct effects on mortality: higher temperatures in winter reduce deaths from cold; higher temperatures in summer increase heat-related deaths. The net local impact of these two direct effects depends on the current climate in a particular area. Palutikof \"et al.\" (1996) calculate that in England and Wales for a 1 °C temperature rise the reduced deaths from cold outweigh the increased deaths from heat, resulting in a reduction in annual average mortality of 7000, while Keatinge \"et al.\" (2000) \"suggest that any increases in mortality due to increased temperatures would be outweighed by much larger short term declines in cold related mortalities.\" Cold-related deaths are far more numerous than heat-related deaths in the United States, Europe, and almost all countries outside the tropics. During 1979–1999, a total of 3,829 deaths in the United States were associated with excessive heat due to weather conditions, while in that same period a total of 13,970 deaths were attributed to hypothermia. In Europe, mean annual heat related mortalities are 304 in north Finland, 445 in Athens, and 40 in London, while cold related mortalities are 2457, 2533, and 3129 respectively. According to Keatinge \"et al.\" (2000), \"populations in Europe have adjusted successfully to mean summer temperatures ranging from 13.5°C to 24.1°C, and can be expected to adjust to global warming predicted for the next half century with little sustained increase in heat related mortality.\"\n\nA government report shows decreased mortality due to recent warming and predicts increased mortality due to future warming in the United Kingdom. The 2003 European heat wave killed 22,000–35,000 people, based on normal mortality rates. Peter A. Stott from the Hadley Centre for Climate Prediction and Research estimated with 90% confidence that past human influence on climate was responsible for at least half the risk of the 2003 European summer heat-wave.\n\nIn 2007, the American Academy of Pediatrics issued the policy statement \"Global Climate Change and Children's Health\":\n\nOn 2008-04-29, a UNICEF UK Report found that global warming is already reducing the quality of the world's most vulnerable children's lives and making it more difficult to meet the UN Millennium Development Goals. Global warming will reduce access to clean water and food supplies, particularly in Africa and Asia. Disasters, violence and disease are expected to be more frequent and intense, making the future of the world's poorest children more bleak.\n\nSome areas of the world would start to surpass the wet-bulb temperature limit of human survivability with global warming of about 6.7 °C (12 °F) while a warming of 11.7 °C (21 °F) would put half of the world's population in an uninhabitable environment. In practice, the survivable limit of global warming in these areas is probably lower and in practice, some areas may experience lethal wet-bulb temperatures even earlier, because this study conservatively projected the survival limit for persons who are out of the sun, in gale-force winds, doused with water, wearing no clothing, and not working.\n\nThe combined effects of global warming may have particularly harsh effects on people and countries without the resources to mitigate those effects. This may slow economic development and poverty reduction, and make it harder to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).\n\nIn October 2004 the Working Group on Climate Change and Development, a coalition of development and environment NGOs, issued a report\nUp in Smoke on the effects of climate change on development. This report, and the July 2005 report Africa - Up in Smoke? predicted increased hunger and disease due to decreased rainfall and severe weather events, particularly in Africa. These are likely to have severe impacts on development for those affected.\n\nIn a literature assessment, Yohe \"et al\". (2007:813) concluded that climate change would very likely make it more difficult for nations to achieve the MDGs for the middle of the century. In the short-term, it was judged very likely that climate change (as attributed with high confidence to human activities) would not be a significant extra impediment to nations reaching their 2015 Millennium Development Targets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26410", "title": "Conversion therapy", "text": "Conversion therapy\n\nConversion therapy is the pseudoscientific practice of trying to change an individual's sexual orientation from homosexual or bisexual to heterosexual using psychological or spiritual interventions. There is virtually no reliable evidence that sexual orientation can be changed and medical bodies warn that conversion therapy practices are ineffective and potentially harmful. Nevertheless, advocates and proponents do provide anecdotal reports of people who claim some degree of success in becoming heterosexual. Medical, scientific, and government organizations in the United States and United Kingdom have expressed concern over conversion therapy and consider it potentially harmful. Various jurisdictions in Asia, Europe, Oceania, and the Americas have passed laws against conversion therapy.\n\nThe American Psychiatric Association (APA) opposes psychiatric treatment \"based upon the assumption that homosexuality \"per se\" is a mental disorder or based upon the \"a priori\" assumption that a patient should change his/her sexual homosexual orientation\" and describes attempts to change sexual orientation by practitioners as unethical. It also states that debates over the integration of gay and lesbian people have obscured science \"by calling into question the motives and even the character of individuals on both sides of the issue\" and that the advancement of conversion therapy may cause social harm by disseminating unscientific views about sexual orientation. United States Surgeon General David Satcher in 2001 issued a report stating that \"there is no valid scientific evidence that sexual orientation can be changed\".\n\nThe highest-profile advocates of conversion therapy today tend to be fundamentalist Christian groups and other organizations which use a religious justification for the therapy rather than speaking of homosexuality as \"a disease\". The main organization advocating secular forms of conversion therapy is the National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH), which often partners with religious groups.\n\nTechniques used in conversion therapy prior to 1981 in the United States and Western Europe included ice-pick lobotomies; chemical castration with hormonal treatment; aversive treatments, such as \"the application of electric shock to the hands and/or genitals\"; \"nausea-inducing drugs ... administered simultaneously with the presentation of homoerotic stimuli\"; and masturbatory reconditioning. More recent clinical techniques used in the United States have been limited to counseling, visualization, social skills training, psychoanalytic therapy, and spiritual interventions such as \"prayer and group support and pressure\", though there are some reports of aversive treatments through unlicensed practice as late as the 1990s. The term reparative therapy has been used as a synonym for conversion therapy in general, but it has been argued that strictly speaking it refers to a specific kind of therapy associated with the psychologists Elizabeth Moberly and Joseph Nicolosi.\n\nThe history of conversion therapy can be divided broadly into three periods: an early Freudian period; a period of mainstream approval of conversion therapy, when the mental health establishment became the \"primary superintendent\" of sexuality; and a post-Stonewall period where the mainstream medical profession disavowed conversion therapy.\n\nDuring the earliest parts of psychoanalytic history, analysts granted that homosexuality was non-pathological in certain cases, and the ethical question of whether it ought to be changed was discussed. By the 1920s analysts assumed that homosexuality was pathological and that attempts to treat it were appropriate, although psychoanalytic opinion about changing homosexuality was largely pessimistic. Those forms of homosexuality that were considered perversions were usually held to be incurable. Analysts' tolerant statements about homosexuality arose from recognition of the difficulty of achieving change. Beginning in the 1930s and continuing for roughly twenty years, major changes occurred in how analysts viewed homosexuality, which involved a shift in the rhetoric of analysts, some of whom felt free to ridicule and abuse their gay patients.\n\nSigmund Freud was a physician and the founder of psychoanalysis. Freud stated that homosexuality could sometimes be removed through hypnotic suggestion, and was influenced by Eugen Steinach, a Viennese endocrinologist who transplanted testicles from straight men into gay men in attempts to change their sexual orientation, stating that his research had \"thrown a strong light on the organic determinants of homo-eroticism\". Freud cautioned that Steinach's operations would not necessarily make possible a therapy that could be generally applied, arguing that such transplant procedures would be effective in changing homosexuality in men only in cases in which it was strongly associated with physical characteristics typical of women, and that probably no similar therapy could be applied to lesbianism. Steinach's method was doomed to failure because the immune system rejects transplanted glands, and was eventually exposed as ineffective and often harmful.\n\nFreud's main discussion of female homosexuality was the 1920 paper \"The Psychogenesis of a Case of Homosexuality in a Woman\", which described his analysis of a young woman who had entered therapy because her parents were concerned that she was a lesbian. Her father wanted this condition changed. In Freud's view, the prognosis was unfavourable because of the circumstances under which she entered therapy, and because homosexuality was not an illness or neurotic conflict. Freud wrote that changing homosexuality was difficult and possible only under unusually favourable conditions, observing that \"in general to undertake to convert a fully developed homosexual into a heterosexual does not offer much more prospect of success than the reverse\". Success meant making heterosexual feeling possible, not eliminating homosexual feelings.\n\nGay people could seldom be convinced that heterosexual sex would provide them with the same pleasure they derived from homosexual sex. Patients often wanted to become heterosexual for reasons Freud considered superficial, including fear of social disapproval, an insufficient motive for change. Some might have no real desire to become heterosexual, seeking treatment only to convince themselves that they had done everything possible to change, leaving them free to return to homosexuality after the failure they expected.\n\nIn 1935, a mother asked Freud to treat her son. Freud replied in a letter that later became famous:\n\nSándor Ferenczi was an influential psychoanalyst. Ferenczi hoped to cure some kinds of homosexuality completely, but was content in practice with reducing what he considered gay men's hostility to women, along with the urgency of their homosexual desires, and with helping them to become attracted to and potent with women. In his view, a gay man who was confused about his sexual identity and felt himself to be \"a woman with the wish to be loved by a man\" was not a promising candidate for cure. Ferenczi believed that complete cures of homosexuality might become possible in the future when psychoanalytic technique had been improved.\n\nDaughter of Sigmund Freud, Anna Freud became an influential psychoanalytic theorist in the UK.\n\nAnna Freud reported the successful treatment of homosexuals as neurotics in a series of unpublished lectures. In 1949 she published \"Some Clinical Remarks Concerning the Treatment of Cases of Male Homosexuality\" in the \"International Journal of Psychoanalysis\". In her view, it was important to pay attention to the interaction of passive and active homosexual fantasies and strivings, the original interplay of which prevented adequate identification with the father. The patient should be told that his choice of a passive partner allows him to enjoy a passive or receptive mode, while his choice of an active partner allows him to recapture his lost masculinity. She claimed that these interpretations would reactivate repressed castration anxieties, and childhood narcissistic grandiosity and its complementary fear of dissolving into nothing during heterosexual intercourse would come with the renewal of heterosexual potency.\n\nAnna Freud in 1951 published \"Clinical Observations on the Treatment of Male Homosexuality\" in \"The Psychoanalytic Quarterly\" and \"Homosexuality\" in the \"American Psychoanalytic Association (APsaA) Bulletin\". In these articles, she insisted on the attainment of full object-love of the opposite sex as a requirement for cure of homosexuality. In 1951 she gave a lecture about treatment of homosexuality which was criticised by Edmund Bergler, who emphasised the oral fears of patients and minimized the importance of the phallic castration fears she had discussed.\n\nAnna Freud recommended in 1956 to a journalist who was preparing an article about psychoanalysis for \"The Observer\" of London that she not quote Freud's letter to the American mother, on the grounds that \"nowadays we can cure many more homosexuals than was thought possible in the beginning. The other reason is that readers may take this as a confirmation that all analysis can do is to convince patients that their defects or 'immoralities' do not matter and that they should be happy with them. That would be unfortunate.\"\n\nMelanie Klein was a pupil of Ferenczi. Her seminal book \"The Psycho-Analysis of Children\", based on lectures given to the British Psychoanalytical Society in the 1920s, was published in 1932. Klein claimed that entry into the Oedipus Complex is based on mastery of primitive anxiety from the oral and anal stages. If these tasks are not performed properly, developments in the Oedipal stage will be unstable. Complete analysis of patients with such unstable developments would require uncovering these early concerns. The analysis of homosexuality required dealing with paranoid trends based on the oral stage. \"The Psycho-Analysis of Children\" ends with the analysis of Mr. B., a gay man. Klein claimed that he illustrated pathologies that enter into all forms of homosexuality: a gay man idealizes \"the good penis\" of his partner to allay the fear of attack he feels due to having projected his paranoid hatred onto the imagined \"bad penis\" of his mother as an infant. She stated that Mr. B.'s homosexual behaviour diminished after he overcame his need to adore the \"good penis\" of an idealized man. This was made possible by his recovering his belief in the good mother and his ability to sexually gratify her with his good penis and plentiful semen.\n\nIn March 2018, a majority of 435 against 109 representatives in the European parliament passed a resolution condemning conversion therapy and urging European Union member states to ban the practice.\n\nPsychoanalysis started to receive recognition in the United States in 1909, when Sigmund Freud delivered a series of lectures at Clark University in Massachusetts at the invitation of G. Stanley Hall. In 1913, Abraham Brill wrote \"The Conception of Homosexuality\", which he published in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" and read before the American Medical Association's annual meeting. Brill criticised physical treatments for homosexuality such as bladder washing, rectal massage, and castration, along with hypnosis, but referred approvingly to Freud and Sadger's use of psychoanalysis, calling its results \"very gratifying\". Since Brill understood curing homosexuality as restoring heterosexual potency, he claimed that he had cured his patients in several cases, even though many remained homosexual.\n\nWilhelm Stekel, an Austrian, published his views on treatment of homosexuality, which he considered a disease, in the American \"Psychoanalytic Review\" in 1930. Stekel believed that \"success was fairly certain\" in changing homosexuality through psychoanalysis provided that it was performed correctly and the patient wanted to be treated. In 1932, \"The Psychoanalytic Quarterly\" published a translation of Helene Deutsch's paper \"On Female Homosexuality\". Deutsch reported her analysis of a lesbian, who did not become heterosexual as a result of treatment, but who managed to achieve a \"positive libidinal relationship\" with another woman. Deutsch indicated that she would have considered heterosexuality a better outcome.\n\nEdmund Bergler was the most important psychoanalytic theorist of homosexuality in the 1950s. He was vociferous in his opposition to Alfred Kinsey. Kinsey's work, and its reception, led Bergler to develop his own theories for treatment, which were essentially to \"blame the victim\", in the evaluation of Jennifer Terry, associate professor of Woman's Studies. Bergler claimed that if gay people wanted to change, and the right therapeutic approach was taken, then they could be cured in 90% of cases. Bergler used confrontational therapy in which gay people were punished in order to make them aware of their masochism. Bergler openly violated professional ethics to achieve this, breaking patient confidentiality in discussing the cases of patients with other patients, bullying them, calling them liars and telling them they were worthless. He insisted that gay people could be cured. Bergler confronted Kinsey because Kinsey thwarted the possibility of cure by presenting homosexuality as an acceptable way of life, which was the basis of the gay rights activism of the time. Bergler popularised his views in the United States in the 1950s using magazine articles and books aimed at non-specialists.\n\nIn 1951, the mother who wrote to Freud asking him to treat her son sent Freud's response to the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\", in which it was published. The 1952 first edition of the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-I) classified homosexuality as a mental disorder.\n\nDuring the three decades between Freud's death in 1939 and the Stonewall riots in 1969, conversion therapy received approval from most of the psychiatric establishment in the United States. In 1962, Irving Bieber \"et al.\" published \"\", in which they concluded that \"although this change may be more easily accomplished by some than by others, in our judgment a heterosexual shift is a possibility for all homosexuals who are strongly motivated to change\".\n\nThere was a riot in 1969 at the Stonewall Bar in New York after a police raid. The Stonewall riot acquired symbolic significance for the gay rights movement and came to be seen as the opening of a new phase in the struggle for gay liberation. Following these events, conversion therapy came under increasing attack. Activism against conversion therapy increasingly focused on the DSM's designation of homosexuality as a psychopathology. In 1973, after years of criticism from gay activists and bitter dispute among psychiatrists, the American Psychiatric Association removed homosexuality as a mental disorder from the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\". Supporters of the change used evidence from researchers such as Kinsey and Evelyn Hooker. Psychiatrist Robert Spitzer, a member of the APA's Committee on Nomenclature, played an important role in the events that led to this decision. Critics argued that it was a result of pressure from gay activists, and demanded a referendum among voting members of the Association. The referendum was held in 1974 and the APA's decision was upheld by a 58% majority.\n\nThe APA removed ego-dystonic homosexuality from the DSM-III-R in 1987 and opposes the diagnosis of either homosexuality or ego-dystonic homosexuality as any type of disorder.\n\nJoseph Nicolosi had a significant role in the development of conversion therapy as early as the 1990s, publishing his first book \"Reparative Therapy of Male Homosexuality\" in 1991. In 1992, Nicolosi, with Charles Socarides and Benjamin Kaufman, founded the National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH), an organization that opposes the mainstream medical view of homosexuality and aims to \"make effective psychological therapy available to all homosexual men and women who seek change\".\n\nIn 1998, Christian right groups including the Family Research Council and the American Family Association spent $600,000 on advertising promoting conversion therapy. John Paulk and his then wife Anne featured in full-page newspaper spreads.\n\nUnited States Surgeon General David Satcher in 2001 issued a report stating that \"there is no valid scientific evidence that sexual orientation can be changed\". The same year, a study by Robert Spitzer concluded that some highly motivated individuals whose orientation is predominantly homosexual can become predominantly heterosexual with some form of reparative therapy. Spitzer based his findings on structured interviews with 200 self-selected individuals (143 males, 57 females). He told \"The Washington Post\" that the study \"shows some people can change from gay to straight, and we ought to acknowledge that\". Spitzer's study caused controversy and attracted media attention. Spitzer recanted his study in 2012, and apologized to the gay community for making unproven claims of the efficacy of reparative therapy, calling it his only professional regret.\n\nThe American Psychoanalytic Association spoke against NARTH in 2004, stating \"that organization does not adhere to our policy of nondiscrimination and ... their activities are demeaning to our members who are gay and lesbian\". The same year, a survey of members of the American Psychological Association rated reparative therapy as \"certainly discredited\", though the authors warn that the results should be interpreted carefully as an initial step, not a final word.\n\nThe American Psychological Association in 2007 convened a task force to evaluate its policies regarding reparative therapy.\n\nIn 2008, the organizers of an APA panel on the relationship between religion and homosexuality canceled the event after gay activists objected that \"conversion therapists and their supporters on the religious right use these appearances as a public relations event to try and legitimize what they do\".\n\nIn 2009, American Psychological Association stated that it \"encourages mental health professionals to avoid misrepresenting the efficacy of sexual orientation change efforts by promoting or promising change in sexual orientation when providing assistance to individuals distressed by their own or others' sexual orientation and concludes that the benefits reported by participants in sexual orientation change efforts can be gained through approaches that do not attempt to change sexual orientation\".\n\nThe ethics guidelines of major mental health organizations in the United States vary from cautionary statements to recommendations that ethical practitioners refrain from practicing conversion therapy (American Psychiatric Association) or from referring patients to those who do (American Counseling Association). In a letter dated February 23, 2011 to the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, the Attorney General of the United States stated \"while sexual orientation carries no visible badge, a growing scientific consensus accepts that sexual orientation is a characteristic that is immutable\".\n\nGay rights groups and groups concerned with mental health fear reparative therapy can make depression or even suicide more likely. President Barack Obama expressed opposition to the practice in 2015.\n\nBefore the American Psychological Association's 1973 decision to remove homosexuality from the DSM, practitioners of conversion therapy employed aversive conditioning techniques, involving electric shock and nausea-inducing drugs during presentation of same-sex erotic images. Cessation of the aversive stimuli was typically accompanied by the presentation of opposite-sex erotic images, with the objective of strengthening heterosexual feelings. In \"Aversion therapy for sexual deviation: a critical review\", published in 1966, M. P. Feldman claimed a 58% cure rate, but Douglas Haldeman is skeptical that such stressful methods permit feelings of sexual responsiveness, and notes that Feldman defined success as suppression of homosexuality and increased capacity for heterosexual behavior.\n\nAnother method used was the covert sensitization method, which involves instructing patients to imagine vomiting or receiving electric shocks, writing that only single case studies have been conducted, and that their results cannot be generalized. Haldeman writes that behavioral conditioning studies tend to decrease homosexual feelings, but do not increase heterosexual feelings, citing Rangaswami's \"Difficulties in arousing and increasing heterosexual responsiveness in a homosexual: A case report\", published in 1982, as typical in this respect.\n\nHaldeman concludes that such methods can be called torture, besides being ineffective. He writes that \"Individuals undergoing such treatments do not emerge heterosexually inclined; rather they become shamed, conflicted, and fearful about their homosexual feelings.\"\n\nSome sources describe ex-gay ministries as a form of conversion therapy, while others state that ex-gay organizations and conversion therapy are distinct methods of attempting to convert gay people to heterosexuality. Ex-gay ministries have also been called transformational ministries. Some state that they do not conduct clinical treatment of any kind. Exodus International once believed reparative therapy could be a beneficial tool. The umbrella organization in the United States ceased activities in June 2013, and the three member board issued a statement which repudiated its aims and apologized for the harm their pursuit has caused to LGBT people. The ministries that had been members formed a new organization Restored Hope Network and continue to operate as before with a renewed emphases on spiritual conversion and therapy.\n\nHaldeman writes that psychoanalytic treatment of homosexuality is exemplified by the work of Irving Bieber \"et al.\" in \"Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study of Male Homosexuals\". They advocated long-term therapy aimed at resolving the unconscious childhood conflicts that they considered responsible for homosexuality. Haldeman notes that Bieber's methodology has been criticized because it relied upon a clinical sample, the description of the outcomes was based upon subjective therapist impression, and follow-up data were poorly presented. Bieber reported a 27% success rate from long-term therapy, but only 18% of the patients in whom Bieber considered the treatment successful had been exclusively homosexual to begin with, while 50% had been bisexual. In Haldeman's view, this makes even Bieber's unimpressive claims of success misleading.\n\nHaldeman discusses other psychoanalytic studies of attempts to change homosexuality. Curran and Parr's \"Homosexuality: An analysis of 100 male cases\", published in 1957, reported no significant increase in heterosexual behavior. Mayerson and Lief's \"Psychotherapy of homosexuals: A follow-up study of nineteen cases\", published in 1965, reported that half of its 19 subjects were exclusively heterosexual in behavior four and a half years after treatment, but its outcomes were based on patient self-report and had no external validation. In Haldeman's view, those participants in the study who reported change were bisexual at the outset, and its authors wrongly interpreted capacity for heterosexual sex as change of sexual orientation.\n\nThe term \"reparative therapy\" has been used as a synonym for conversion therapy generally, but according to Jack Drescher it properly refers to a specific kind of therapy associated with the psychologists Elizabeth Moberly and Joseph Nicolosi. The term \"reparative\" refers to Nicolosi's postulate that same-sex attraction is a person's rational and unconscious attempt to \"self-repair\" feelings of inferiority.\n\nMost mental health professionals and the American Psychological Association consider reparative therapy discredited, but it is still practiced by some. In 2014 the Republican Party of Texas endorsed \"counseling, which offers reparative therapy and treatment\" in their party platform. Exodus International regarded reparative therapy as a useful tool to eliminate \"unwanted same-sex attraction\" but ceased activities in June 2013 and issued a statement repudiating its aims and apologizing for the harm the organization had caused to LGBT people. Psychoanalysts critical of Nicolosi's theories have offered gay-affirmative approaches as an alternative to reparative therapy.\n\nHaldeman has described William Masters' and Virginia Johnson's work on sexual orientation change as a form of conversion therapy.\n\nIn \"Homosexuality in Perspective\", published in 1979, Masters and Johnson viewed homosexuality as the result of blocks that prevented the learning that facilitated heterosexual responsiveness, and described a study of 54 gay men who were dissatisfied with their sexual orientation. The original study did not describe the treatment methodology used, but this was published five years later. John C. Gonsiorek criticized their study on several grounds in 1981, pointing out that while Masters and Johnson stated that their patients were screened for major psychopathology or severe neurosis, they did not explain how this screening was performed, or how the motivation of the patients to change was assessed. Nineteen of their subjects were described as uncooperative during therapy and refused to participate in a follow-up assessment, but all of them were assumed without justification to have successfully changed.\n\nHaldeman writes that Masters and Johnson's study was founded upon heterosexist bias, and that it would be tremendously difficult to replicate. In his view, the distinction Masters and Johnson made between \"conversion\" (helping gay men with no previous heterosexual experience to learn heterosexual sex) and \"reversion\" (directing men with some previous heterosexual experience back to heterosexuality) was not well founded. Many of the subjects Masters and Johnson labelled homosexual may not have been homosexual, since, of their participants, only 17% identified themselves as exclusively homosexual, while 83% were in the predominantly heterosexual to bisexual range. Haldeman observed that since 30% of the sample was lost to the follow-up, it is possible that the outcome sample did not include any people attracted mainly or exclusively to the same sex. Haldeman concludes that it is likely that, rather than converting or reverting gay people to heterosexuality, Masters and Johnson only strengthened heterosexual responsiveness in people who were already bisexual.\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, neurologist Walter Freeman popularized the ice-pick lobotomy to treat homosexuality. He personally performed as many as 3,439 lobotomy surgeries in 23 states, of which 2,500 used his ice-pick procedure, despite the fact that he had no formal surgical training. Up to 40% of Freeman's patients were gay individuals subjected to a lobotomy in order to change their homosexual orientation, leaving most of these individuals severely disabled for the rest of their lives. While promoted at the time as a treatment for various psychoses, the effectiveness of lobotomy in changing sexual orientation was already the subject of critical research in 1948 when a single case was investigated by Joseph Friedlander and Ralph Banay. A video depicting the \"ice-pick lobotomy\" of a homosexual man was featured in the documentary film, \"\".\n\nIn May 2001, Robert Spitzer presented \"Can Some Gay Men and Lesbians Change Their Sexual Orientation? 200 Participants Reporting a Change from Homosexual to Heterosexual Orientation\", a study of attempts to change homosexual orientation through ex-gay ministries and conversion therapy, at the American Psychiatric Association's convention in New Orleans. The study was partly a response to the APA's 2000 statement cautioning against clinical attempts at changing homosexuality, and was aimed at determining whether such attempts were ever successful rather than how likely it was that change would occur for any given individual. Spitzer wrote that some earlier studies provided evidence for the effectiveness of therapy in changing sexual orientation, but that all of them suffered from methodological problems.\n\nIn 2012, Spitzer renounced and retracted this study, stating \"I was quite wrong in the conclusions that I made from this study. The study does not provide evidence, really, that gays can change. And that's quite an admission on my part.\" He also apologized to the gay community for making unproven claims of the efficacy of reparative therapy, calling it his only professional regret. Spitzer has requested that all \"ex-gay\" therapy organizations such as NARTH, PFOX, American College of Pediatricians, and Focus on the Family stop citing his study as evidence for conversion therapy.\n\nThe study results were based solely on interviews with the patients and not on any objective observed results. This made it possible and likely that the report was reporting what the patients wanted their results to be rather than the actual results.\n\nSpitzer reported that after intervention, 66% of the men and 44% of the women had achieved \"Good Heterosexual Functioning\", which he defined as requiring five criteria (being in a loving heterosexual relationship during the last year, overall satisfaction in emotional relationship with a partner, having heterosexual sex with the partner at least a few times a month, achieving physical satisfaction through heterosexual sex, and not thinking about having homosexual sex more than 15% of the time while having heterosexual sex). He found that the most common reasons for seeking change were lack of emotional satisfaction from gay life, conflict between same-sex feelings and behavior and religious beliefs, and desire to marry or remain married. This paper was widely reported in the international media and taken up by politicians in the United States, Germany, and Finland, and by conversion therapists.\n\nIn 2003, Spitzer published the paper in the \"Archives of Sexual Behavior\". Spitzer's study has been criticized on numerous ethical and methodological grounds, and \"press releases from both NGLTF and HRC sought to undermine Spitzer's credibility by connecting him politically to right-wing groups that had backed the ex-gay movement\". Gay activists argued that the study would be used by conservatives to undermine gay rights. Spitzer acknowledged that the study sample consisted of people who sought treatment primarily because of their religious beliefs (93% of the sample), served in various church-related functions, and who publicly spoke in favor of changing homosexual orientation (78%), and thus were strongly motivated to overreport success. Critics felt he dismissed this source of bias, without even attempting to measure deception or self-deception (a standard practice in self-reporting psychological tests like MMPI-2). That participants had to rely upon their memories of what their feelings were before treatment may have distorted the findings. It was impossible to determine whether any change that occurred was due to the treatment because it was not clear what it involved and there was no control group. Spitzer's own data showed that claims of change were reflected mostly in changes in self-labelling and behavior, less in attractions, and least in the homoerotic content during the masturbatory fantasies; this particular finding was consistent with other studies in this area. Participants may have been bisexual before treatment. Follow-up studies were not conducted. Spitzer stressed the limitations of his study. Spitzer said that the number of gay people who could successfully become heterosexual was likely to be \"pretty low\", and conceded that his subjects were \"unusually religious\".\n\nAriel Shidlo and Michael Schroeder found in \"Changing Sexual Orientation: A Consumer's Report\", a peer-reviewed study of 202 respondents published in 2002, that 88% of participants failed to achieve a sustained change in their sexual behavior and 3% reported changing their orientation to heterosexual. The remainder reported either losing all sexual drive or attempting to remain celibate, with no change in attraction. Some of the participants who failed felt a sense of shame and had gone through conversion therapy programs for many years. Others who failed believed that therapy was worthwhile and valuable. Many respondents felt harmed by the attempt to change, and reported depression, suicidal ideation and attempts, hypervigilance of gender-deviant mannerisms, social isolation, fear of being a child abuser and poor self-esteem. Of the 8 respondents (out of a sample of 202) who reported a change in sexual orientation, 7 worked as ex-gay counselors or group leaders.\n\nAlthough no national ban exists, several US states and individual counties ban therapy attempting to change sexual orientation as shown in the map below.\n\nMany health organizations around the world have denounced and criticized sexual orientation change efforts. National health organizations in the United States have announced that there has been no scientific demonstration of conversion therapy's efficacy in the last forty years.\nThey find that conversion therapy is ineffective, risky and can be harmful. Anecdotal claims of cures are counterbalanced by assertions of harm, and the American Psychiatric Association, for example, cautions ethical practitioners under the Hippocratic oath to do no harm and to refrain from attempts at conversion therapy.\n\nMainstream medical bodies state that conversion therapy can be harmful because it may exploit guilt and anxiety, thereby damaging self-esteem and leading to depression and even suicide. There is also concern in the mental health community that the advancement of conversion therapy can cause social harm by disseminating inaccurate views about sexual orientation and the ability of gay and bisexual people to lead happy, healthy lives.\n\nMajor health organizations critical of conversion therapy include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe American Psychological Association undertook a study of the peer-reviewed literature in the area of sexual orientation change efforts (SOCE) and found a myriad of issues with the procedures used in conducting the research. The taskforce did find that some participants experienced a lessening of same sex attraction and arousal, but that these instances were \"rare\" and \"uncommon\". The taskforce concluded that, \"given the limited amount of methodically sound research, claims that recent SOCE is effective are not supported\". Two issues with SOCE claims are that conversion therapists falsely assume that homosexuality is a mental disorder and that their research focuses almost exclusively on gay men and rarely includes lesbians.\n\nThe American Psychological Association's code of conduct states that \"Psychologists respect the dignity and worth of all people, and the rights of individuals to privacy, confidentiality, and self-determination\", but also that \"Psychologists are aware that special safeguards may be necessary to protect the rights and welfare of persons or communities whose vulnerabilities impair autonomous decision making.\" The American Counseling Association says that \"it is of primary importance to respect a client's autonomy to request a referral for a service not offered by a counselor\". They said that no one should be forced to attempt to change their sexual orientation against their will, including children being forced by their parents.\n\nSupporters of SOCE focus on patient self-determination when discussing whether therapy should be available. Mark Yarhouse, of Pat Robertson's Regent University, wrote that \"psychologists have an ethical responsibility to allow individuals to pursue treatment aimed at curbing experiences of same-sex attraction or modifying same-sex behaviors, not only because it affirms the client's rights to dignity, autonomy, and agency, as persons presumed capable of freely choosing among treatment modalities and behavior, but also because it demonstrates regard for diversity\". Yarhouse and Throckmorton, of the private Christian school Grove City College, argue that the procedure should be available out of respect for a patient's values system and because they find evidence that it can be effective. Haldeman similarly argues for a client's right to access to therapy if requested from a fully informed position: \"For some, religious identity is so important that it is more realistic to consider changing sexual orientation than abandoning one's religion of origin ... and if there are those who seek to resolve the conflict between sexual orientation and spirituality with conversion therapy, they must not be discouraged.\"\n\nIn response to Yarhouse's paper, Jack Drescher argued that \"any putative ethical obligation to refer a patient for reparative therapy is outweighed by a stronger ethical obligation to keep patients away from mental health practitioners who engage in questionable clinical practices\". Chuck Bright wrote that refusing to endorse a procedure that \"has been deemed unethical and potentially harmful by most medical and nearly every professional psychotherapy regulating body cannot be justifiably identified as prohibiting client self-determination\". Some commentators, recommending a hard stand against the practice, have found therapy inconsistent with a psychologist's ethical duties because \"it is more ethical to let a client continue to struggle honestly with her or his identity than to collude, even peripherally, with a practice that is discriminatory, oppressive, and ultimately ineffective in its own stated ends\". They argue that clients who request it do so out of social pressure and internalized homophobia, pointing to evidence that rates of depression, anxiety, alcohol and drug abuse and suicidal feelings are roughly doubled in those who undergo therapy.\n\nHaldeman argues that, due to concern for people whose \"spiritual or religious concerns\" may assume priority over their sexual orientation, mental health organizations do not ban conversion therapy outright.\n\nIn 1998, the American Psychiatric Association issued a statement opposing any treatment which is based upon the assumption that homosexuality is a mental disorder or that a person should change their orientation, but did not have a formal position on other treatments that attempt to change a person's sexual orientation. In 2000, they augmented that statement by saying that as a general principle, a therapist should not determine the goal of treatment, but recommends that ethical practitioners refrain from attempts to change clients' sexual orientation until more research is available.\n\nThe American Counseling Association has stated that they do not condone any training to educate and prepare a counselor to practice conversion therapy. Counselors who do offer training in conversion therapy must inform students that the techniques are unproven. They suggest counselors do not refer clients to a conversion therapist or to proceed cautiously once they know the counselor fully informs clients of the unproven nature of the treatment and the potential risks. However, \"it is of primary importance to respect a client's autonomy to request a referral for a service not offered by a counselor\". A counselor performing conversion therapy must provide complete information about the treatment, offer referrals to gay-affirmative counselors, discuss the right of clients, understand the client's request within a cultural context, and only practice within their level of expertise.\n\nNARTH stated in 2012 that refusing to offer therapy aimed at change to a client who requests it, and telling them that their only option is to claim a gay identity, could also be considered ethically unacceptable. In 2012 the British Psychological Society issued a position statement opposing any treatments that are based on an assumption that non-heterosexual orientations are pathological.\n\nA 2013 article by the Committee on Adolescence of the American Academy of Pediatrics stated \"Referral for 'conversion' or 'reparative therapy' is never indicated; therapy is not effective and may be harmful to LGBTQ individuals by increasing internalized stigma, distress, and depression.\"\n\nIn 2014, the American Association of Christian Counselors amended its code of ethics to eliminate the promotion of conversion therapy for homosexuals and encouraged them to be celibate instead. An article in the American Medical Association's Journal of Ethics argues that if a pediatrician learns that parents of a 12-year-old patient seek conversion therapy, the pediatrician can advise against \"the ineffective and potentially harmful intervention\" while being culturally sensitive of their religious objections to homosexuality. The authors argue that the doctor's medical ethics means they should place the interests of the patient above the cultural sensitivities of the parents, and confidentially counsel the patient about resources for LGBT youth facing bullying, and advise the parents about resources for parents of LGBT children. In 2014, major therapy professional bodies in the United Kingdom issued a joint consensus statement opposing conversion therapy. Professional bodies supporting the statement included the UK Council for Psychotherapy, the British Psychoanalytic Council, the Royal College of Psychiatrists, the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy, the British Psychological Society and the National Counselling Society.\n\nIn 2015, with support of the UK Government's Department of Health, a wide range of UK organisations signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) setting out an agreed framework for activities by parties concerned to help address the issues raised by the practice of conversion therapy in the UK. In addition to many of the professional bodies that previously issued the consensus statement, signatories included the UK Association of Christian Counsellors, the Royal College of General Practitioners, NHS England and NHS Scotland. The signatory organisations recognised a shared commitment to protecting the public from the risks of conversion therapy. They committed to raise awareness among healthcare professionals and psychological therapists of ethical issues involved in conversion therapy and to provide training to enable therapists to support clients in distress in an appropriate way.\n\nThe World Health Organization's ICD-10, which along with the DSM-IV is widely used internationally, states that \"sexual orientation by itself is not to be regarded as a disorder\". It lists ego-dystonic sexual orientation as a disorder instead, which it defines as occurring where \"the gender identity or sexual preference (heterosexual, homosexual, bisexual, or prepubertal) is not in doubt, but the individual wishes it were different because of associated psychological and behavioural disorders, and may seek treatment in order to change it\".\n\nIn 2012, the Pan American Health Organization (the North and South American branch of the World Health Organization) released a statement cautioning against services that purport to \"cure\" people with non-heterosexual sexual orientations as they lack medical justification and represent a serious threat to the health and well-being of affected people, and noted that the global scientific and professional consensus is that homosexuality is a normal and natural variation of human sexuality and cannot be regarded as a pathological condition. The Pan American Health Organization further called on governments, academic institutions, professional associations and the media to expose these practices and to promote respect for diversity. The World Health Organization affiliate further noted that gay minors have sometimes been forced to attend these \"therapies\" involuntarily, being deprived of their liberty and sometimes kept in isolation for several months, and that these findings were reported by several United Nations bodies. Additionally, the Pan American Health Organization recommended that such practices be denounced and subject to sanctions and penalties under national legislation, as they constitute a violation of the ethical principles of health care and violate human rights that are protected by international and regional agreements.\n\nThe development of theoretical models of sexual orientation in countries outside the United States that have established mental health professions often follows the history within the U.S. (although often at a slower pace), shifting from pathological to non-pathological conceptions of homosexuality.\n\nMajor medical and psychological bodies in Australia uniformly prohibit conversion therapy practices, with published statements having come from peak bodies representing psychologists, psychiatrists, and medical practitioners. In a statement issued jointly with the College of Psychiatrists, Royal Australasian College of Physicians President Catherine Yelland summarised the view of the Australian medical community: \"[g]ay conversion therapy is unethical, harmful and not supported by medical evidence.\" The approaches taken by peak medical bodies is exemplified by the 2015 Australian Psychological Society Position Statement, which declares (emphasis in original) that the:\nThe Position Statement supports this position by reference to the Society's Code of Ethics, which were adopted in 2007 and mandated as the Code of Ethics for Australian psychologists in 2010 by the Psychology Board of Australia. Under the Code, psychologists are required to \"avoid discriminating unfairly against people on the basis of age, religion, sexuality, ethnicity, gender, disability, or any other basis proscribed by law” and mandates that they\nThe Position Statement explicitly states that this ethical \"requirement not to discriminate and to respect clients' moral rights does not equate to a justification to treat homosexuality or bisexuality as a disorder requiring treatment,\" relying on the Code of Ethics' section on propriety: \"psychologists only provide psychological services within the boundaries of their professional competence [which] includes but is not restricted to ... basing their service on established knowledge of the discipline and profession of psychology\". Regarding the knowledge base relating to conversion therapy, the statement is unequivocal (emphasis in original):\nThe Society's position concludes by noting that it \"is, of course, appropriate for psychologists to provide clinical services to clients who experience distress in regards to their sexual orientation ... [but this practice] should seek to understand \"the reasons for\" distress and how it may be alleviated. Evidence-based strategies to alleviate distress do not include attempts at changing sexual orientation, but could include challenging negative stereotypes, seeking social support, and self-acceptance, among others.\"\n\nThe Government of Victoria announced in 2016 that it would be legislating to ban all LGBTQI conversion therapy. The new law began operating in February 2017 and allows the Health Complaints Commissioner to act against any health professional engaged in practices that are \"found to be making false claims and to be acting in a manner that puts people's physical, mental or psychological health, safety or welfare at risk\" – and in a world-first, this law applies to conversion therapy for adults as well as for minors. Western Australia and the Australian Capital Territory announced in September 2017 that they are investigating similar laws. Advocates for a ban on conversion therapy argued that reviews need to go beyond the practices of health professionals and into activities of religious groups and the unregulated (non-medical) counselling sector.\n\nA Fairfax Media investigation in 2018 reported that \"across Australia, organisations who believe that LGBTI people can or should change are hard at work. Conversion practices are hidden in evangelical churches and ministries, taking the form of exorcisms, prayer groups or counselling disguised as pastoral care. They're also present in some religious schools or practised in the private offices of health professionals. They're pushed out through a thriving network of courses and mentors in the borderless world of cyberspace, cloaked in the terminology of 'self improvement' or 'spiritual healing.'\" A study of Pentecostal-Charismatic Churches found that LGBTI parishioners were faced with four options: remain closeted, come out but commit to remaining celibate, undergo conversion therapy, or leave the church... the majority took the last option, though typically only after \"agonising attempts to reconcile their faith and their sexuality.\" The study provides corroboration that conversion therapy remains practiced within religious communities.\n\nFollowing the Fairfax investigation, Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews called on Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull to support outlawing conversion therapy as part of the national mental health strategy. Federal Health Minister Greg Hunt declared that the issue is one for the states as no Commonwealth funding goes to sexual orientation change efforts – though \"gay conversion ideology has been quietly pushed in schools as part of the federal government's chaplaincy program.\" The report noted that the Victorian law applies only to people offering health services and so does not catch religious groups and charities \"who say they are helping same-sex attracted people to live in accordance with their faith.\"\n\nChris, a survivor of conversion therapy joined Andrews in calling for the Federal Government to outlaw conversion therapy, declaring that \"praying the gay away nearly killed me.\" He established a petition calling on Turnbull and Hunt to act to outlaw conversion therapy, declaring: \"I prayed to God asking him to either heal me, or kill me. I was so depressed, I wanted to die.\" In April 2018, Shadow Health Minister Catherine King wrote a response to the petition: “I’m writing to let you know that Labor stands with you, Chris Csabs and the medical experts in opposing gay conversion therapy...two Turnbull Government ministers – the Acting Prime Minister and the Health Minister – have now failed to condemn the practice when given the chance.” Shortly after Catherine King's response, Health Minister for Queensland Dr Steven Miles voiced his concerns over the practise and stated that the Federal Health Minister should be working with the states to enact change. In May 2018, the Victorian Health Minister Jill Hennessy called for an inquiry into gay conversion therapies. In an unprecedented move, the state government indicated it would not only investigate health professionals but will focus on religious and faith-based ministries propagating Gay Conversion ideologies. The following day, Health Minister for the Australian Capital Territory Meegan Fitzharris followed Catherine King's lead by also responding to the petition, stating that, “The ACT government will ban gay conversion therapy. It is abhorrent and completely inconsistent with the inclusive values of Canberrans.”\n\nOn June 25, 2015, a New Jersey jury found the Jewish conversion therapy organization JONAH guilty of consumer fraud in the case Ferguson v JONAH for promising to be able to change its client's sexual urges and determined its commercial practices to be unconscionable.\n\nIn a 1997 U.S. case, the Ninth Circuit addressed conversion therapy in the context of an asylum application. A Russian citizen \"had been apprehended by the Russian militia, registered at a clinic as a 'suspected lesbian', and forced to undergo treatment for lesbianism, such as 'sedative drugs' and hypnosis. ... The Ninth Circuit held that the conversion treatments to which Pitcherskaia had been subjected constituted mental and physical torture.\" The court rejected the argument that the treatments to which Pitcherskaia had been subjected did not constitute persecution because they had been intended to help her, not harm her, and stated \"human rights laws cannot be sidestepped by simply couching actions that torture mentally or physically in benevolent terms such as 'curing' or 'treating' the victims\".\n\nIn 1993, the Superior Court of San Francisco – Family Court placed 15-year old lesbian Lyn Duff under the guardianship of a foster couple after her mother committed her to Rivendell Psychiatric Center in West Jordan, Utah, where she allegedly endured physical abuse under the guise of conversion therapy. Lyn Duff's petition to leave her mother was granted without court opinion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27341", "title": "Demographics of Slovenia", "text": "Demographics of Slovenia\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Slovenia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nWith 101 inhabitants per square kilometre (262/sq mi), Slovenia ranks low among the European countries in population density (compared to 402/km² (1042/sq mi) for the Netherlands or 195/km² (505/sq mi) for Italy). The Littoral–Inner Carniola Statistical Region has the lowest population density while the Central Slovenia Statistical Region has the highest.\n\nAccording to the 2002 census, Slovenia's main ethnic group are Slovenes (83%). At least 13% of the population were immigrants from other parts of Former Yugoslavia and their descendants. They have settled mainly in cities and suburbanised areas. Relatively small but protected by the Constitution of Slovenia are the Hungarian and the Italian national community. A special position is held by the autochthonous and geographically dispersed Roma ethnic community.\n\nSlovenia is among the European countries with the most pronounced ageing of population, ascribable to a low birth rate and increasing life expectancy. Almost all Slovenian inhabitants older than 64 are retired, with no significant difference between the genders. The working-age group is diminishing in spite of immigration. The proposal to raise the retirement age from the current 57 for women and 58 for men was rejected in a referendum in 2011. Also the difference among the genders regarding life expectancy is still significant. In 2007, it was 74.6 years for men and 81.8 years for women. In addition, in 2009, the suicide rate in Slovenia was 22 per 100,000 persons per year, which places Slovenia among the highest ranked European countries in this regard.\n\nBirths\n\nDeaths\n\nNatural growth\n\nThe majority of Slovenia's population are ethnic Slovenes (83.06%). Hungarians and Italians have the status of indigenous minorities under the Constitution of Slovenia, which guarantees them seats in the National Assembly. Most other minority groups, particularly those from other parts of the former Yugoslavia (except for one part of autochthonous community of Serbs and Croats), relocated after World War II for economic reasons.\n\nAround 12.4% of the inhabitants of Slovenia were born abroad.\nAccording to data from 2008, there were around 100,000 non-EU citizens living in Slovenia, or around 5% of the overall population of the country. The highest number came from Bosnia and Herzegovina, followed by immigrants from Serbia, Macedonia, Croatia and Kosovo. The number of people migrating to Slovenia has been steadily rising from 1995; and has been increasing rapidly in recent years. Since Slovenia joined the EU in 2004, the yearly inflow of immigrants has doubled by 2006 and tripled by 2009. In 2007, Slovenia was one of the countries with the fastest growth of net migration rate in the European Union.\n\nTraditionally, Slovenes are predominantly Roman Catholic. Before World War II, 97% of Slovenes declared as Roman Catholics, around 2.5% were Lutheran, and only around 0.5% belonged to other denominations. Catholicism was an important feature of both social and political life in pre-Communist Slovenia. After 1945, the country underwent a process of gradual but steady secularization. After a decade of severe persecution of religions, the Communist regime adopted a policy of relative tolerance towards the churches, but limited their social functioning. After 1990, the Roman Catholic Church regained some of its former influence, but Slovenia remains a largely secularized society. According to the 2002 census, 57.8% of the population is Roman Catholic. As elsewhere in Europe, affiliation with Roman Catholicism is dropping: in 1991, 71.6% were self-declared Catholics, which means a drop of more than 1% annually. The vast majority of Slovenian Catholics belong to the Latin Rite. A small number of Greek Catholics live in the White Carniola region.\n\nDespite a relatively small number of Protestants (less than 1% in 2002), the Protestant legacy is important because of its historical significance, since the bases of Slovene standard language and Slovene literature were established by the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century. Nowadays, a significant Lutheran minority lives in the easternmost region of Prekmurje, where they represent around a fifth of the population and are headed by a bishop with the seat in Murska Sobota.\n\nBesides these two Christian denominations, a small Jewish community has also been historically present. Despite the losses suffered during the Holocaust, Judaism still numbers a few hundred adherents, mostly living in Ljubljana, site of the sole remaining active synagogue in the country.\n\nAccording to the 2002 census, Islam is the second largest religious denomination with around 2.4% of the population. Most Slovenian Muslims came from Bosnia, Kosovo, and Macedonia. The third largest denomination, with around 2.2% of the population, is Orthodox Christianity, with most adherents belonging to the Serbian Orthodox Church while a minority belongs to the Macedonian and other Orthodox churches.\n\nIn the 2002, around 10% of Slovenes declared themselves as atheists, another 10% professed no specific denomination, and around 16% decided not answer the question about their religious affiliation. According to the Eurobarometer Poll 2005, 37% of Slovenian citizens responded that \"they believe there is a god\", whereas 46% answered that \"they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" and 16% that \"they do not believe there is any sort of spirit, god, or life force\".\n\nThe distribution of the residents of Slovenia by religion is the following: Roman Catholic 57.8%, atheist 10.1%, Muslim 2.4%, Orthodox Christian 2.3%, Protestant 0.9%, other and unknown 26.5% (2002).\n\nAccording to the published data from the 2002 Slovenian census, out of a total of 47,488 Muslims (2.4% of the total population) 2,804 Muslims (5.90% of the total Muslims in Slovenia) declared themselves as ethnic Slovenian Muslims.\n\nThe official language in Slovenia is Slovene, which is a member of the South Slavic language group. In 2002, Slovene was the native language of around 88% of Slovenia's population according to the census, with more than 92% of the Slovenian population speaking it in their home environment. This places Slovenia among the most homogeneous countries in the EU in terms of the share of speakers of predominant mother tongue. Slovene is sometimes characterized as the most diverse Slavic language in terms of dialects, with different degrees of mutual intelligibility. Accounts of the number of dialects range from as few as seven dialects, often considered dialect groups or dialect bases that are further subdivided into as many as 50 dialects. Other sources characterize the number of dialects as nine or eight.\n\nThe distribution of speakers by language is the following: Slovene 87.7%, Serbo-Croatian 8%, Hungarian 0.4%, Albanian 0.4%, Macedonian 0.2%, Romani 0.2%, Italian 0.2%, German 0.1%, other 0.1% (Russian, Czech, Ukrainian, English, Slovak, Polish, Romanian, Turkish, French, Bulgarian, Arabic, Spanish, Dutch, Vlach, Rusyn, Greek, Swedish, Danish or Armenian), unknown 2.7% (2002)\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n1,996,617 (July 2012 est.)\n\n<br>\"0–14 years:\"\n13.4% (male 138,604/female 130,337)\n<br>\"15–64 years:\"\n69.8% (male 703,374/female 692,640)\n<br>\"65 years and over:\"\n16.8% (male 132,096/female 203,068) (2011 est.)\n\n<br>\"at birth:\"\n1.07 male(s)/female\n<br>\"under 15 years:\"\n1.06 male(s)/female\n<br>\"15–64 years:\"\n1.01 male(s)/female\n<br>\"65 years and over:\"\n0.66 male(s)/female\n<br>\"total population:\"\n0.95 male(s)/female (2011 est.)\n\n4.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2010)\n\n<br>\"total population:\"\n80 years\n<br>\"male:\"\n77 years\n<br>\"female:\"\n83 years (2013 est)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21234651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21234651", "title": "Dendermonde nursery attack", "text": "Dendermonde nursery attack\n\nThe Dendermonde nursery attack was a stabbing attack on the \"Fabeltjesland\" daycare centre in the Flemish village of Sint-Gillis-bij-Dendermonde in Dendermonde, Belgium, at 10:00 a.m. CET (9:00 a.m. UTC) on 23 January 2009. Three people were stabbed to death, and twelve were mutilated in the attack. The suspect has been linked to a separate murder of an elderly lady and police have suggested he was plotting more nursery attacks. The daycare centre where the initial attack occurred is expected never to reopen.\n\nKim de Gelder, a 20-year-old Belgian from Sinaai, entered the \"Fabeltjesland\" nursery through an unlocked side-door, claiming that he had a question to ask. He then entered one of the rooms and began attacking small children before moving to another room. The man was reported to be wearing black-and-white makeup with his hair vividly colored red, similar to that of the Joker from the \"Batman\" films (who, however, has green hair and white and red facial features). De Gelder's attorney, Jaak Haentjens, later formally denied any link to \"the Joker\", attributing the claims of face paint to De Gelder's pale skin. De Gelder was, in the eyes of his friends and colleagues, a silent boy, who never said anything.\n\nA total of eighteen infants under the age of three and six adults were in the nursery at the time of the attack. Two infants and one adult were killed; six children, all between one and three years old, were seriously injured; another four suffered minor injuries; and nine escaped unscathed. The alleged perpetrator left the scene on his bike.\n\n\nInitial reports on Belgian television suggested that five people had been killed and twenty others had been injured, with government officials only confirming the death of one adult and one child. This number was later increased, as another infant had died from the injuries he had sustained. It has also been reported that some of the surviving children have needed plastic surgery due to serious mutilations.\n\nA massive search operation was mounted, and a man was captured by police a short while later, in the nearby town of Lebbeke. Having been wounded during his capture, the man was taken to a hospital in Aalst, Belgium. Police reported that he was carrying a list of nurseries, of which they suspect he may have been planning to attack as well.\n\nThe mayor of Dendermonde, Piet Buyse, said, \"The victims are being cared for and those who were not injured have been brought to a centre where they are receiving counseling.\"\n\nAt a press conference on the evening of the attack, public prosecutor Christian Du Four provided the following information about the alleged offender, denying several early rumours:\nSome 6,000 people marched through Dendermonde on 25 January 2009, laying hundreds of bouquets and stuffed animals outside the daycare centre as the Mayor of Dendermonde, Piet Buyse, announced that the \"Fabeltjesland\" nursery would never reopen.\n\nDe Gelder was identified as the attacker on 25 January 2009. De Gelder confided in his attorney, stating that he had been troubled by depression as a teenager and at one point heard voices in his head. Regardless, a psychiatrist had concluded that he did not need to be sent to a mental institution.\n\nOn 26 January 2009, Belgian officials named De Gelder as the primary suspect in a further, fourth murder, where a 73-year-old woman was stabbed to death in her apartment in Beveren, near Antwerp, on 16 January. Prosecutor Christian Du Four told journalists that there were \"very clear indications of links between the murders\", though De Gelder denies any involvement. Police have stated that he was planning attacks on other nurseries.\n\nOn 27 January, De Gelder admitted to the attacks. The media originally reported that De Gelder was wearing makeup at the time of the attack, making him look like the Joker, but police have not confirmed that depiction. In further media reports, De Gelder reportedly watched \"The Dark Knight\" an unusually high number of times (\"film obsession\"), appears to have quoted the character Harvey Dent at the start of the attack. Both police investigators and De Gelder's lawyer have made statements dismissing such as relevant to his motive in the attack.\nDe Gelder's attorneys argued that he was schizophrenic and therefore could not be held fully accountable for his actions. Psychiatrists believed that De Gelder was faking psychosis and instead diagnosed him with schizotypal personality disorder with psychopathic traits and narcissistic features. The College of Psychiatrists concluded the De Gelder was mentally ill but sane, and was in control of his actions when he committed the murders.\nOn 22 March 2013, a jury declared De Gelder was fully accountable for the attack and found him guilty of four counts of murder. He was sentenced to life imprisonment the following day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57349", "title": "Economist", "text": "Economist\n\nAn economist is a practitioner in the social science discipline of economics.\n\nThe individual may also study, develop, and apply theories and concepts from economics and write about economic policy. Within this field there are many sub-fields, ranging from the broad philosophical theories to the focused study of minutiae within specific markets, macroeconomic analysis, microeconomic analysis or financial statement analysis, involving analytical methods and tools such as econometrics, statistics, economics computational models, financial economics, mathematical finance and mathematical economics.\n\nThe professionalization of economics, reflected in academia, has been described as \"the main change in economics since around 1900.\" Economists debate the path they believe their profession should take. It is, primarily, a debate between a scholastic orientation, focused on mathematical techniques, and a public discourse orientation, which is more focused on communicating to lay people pertinent economic principles as they relate to public policy. Surveys among economists indicate a preference for a shift toward the latter.\n\nMost major universities have an economics faculty, school or department, where academic degrees are awarded in economics. Getting a PhD in economics takes six years, on average, with a median of 5.3 years.\n\nThe Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics, established by Sveriges Riksbank in 1968, is a prize awarded to economists each year for outstanding intellectual contributions in the field of economics. The prize winners are announced in October every year. They receive their awards (a prize amount, a gold medal and a diploma) on December 10, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel's death.\n\nEconomists work in many fields including academia, government and in the private sector, where they may also \"...study data and statistics in order to spot trends in economic activity, economic confidence levels, and consumer attitudes. They assess this information using advanced methods in statistical analysis, mathematics, computer programming [and] they make recommendations about ways to improve the efficiency of a system or take advantage of trends as they begin.\"\n\nIn contrast to regulated professions such as engineering, law or medicine, there is not a legally required educational requirement or license for economists. In academia, to be called an economist requires a Ph.D. degree in Economics. In the US government, on the other hand, a person can be hired as an economist provided that they have a degree that included or was supplemented by 21 semester hours in economics and three hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus.<ref name=\"http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/standards/IORs/gs0100/0110.htm\"></ref>\n\nA professional working inside of one of many fields of economics or having an academic degree in this subject is often considered to be an economist. In addition to government and academia, economists are also employed in banking, finance, accountancy, commerce, marketing, business administration, lobbying and non- or not-for profit organizations.\n\nPoliticians often consult economists before enacting economic policy. Many statesmen have academic degrees in economics.\n\nEconomics graduates are employable in varying degrees depending on the regional economic scenario and labour market conditions at the time for a given country. Apart from the specific understanding of the subject, employers value the skills of numeracy and analysis, the ability to communicate and the capacity to grasp broad issues which the graduates acquire at the university or college. Whilst only a few economics graduates may be expected to become professional economists, many find it a base for entry into a career in finance – including accounting, insurance, tax and banking, or management. A number of economics graduates from around the world have been successful in obtaining employment in a variety of major national and international firms in the financial and commercial sectors, and in manufacturing, retailing and IT, as well as in the public sector – for example, in the health and education sectors, or in government and politics. Small numbers go on to undertake postgraduate studies, either in economics, research, teacher training or further qualifications in specialist areas.\nIn Brazil, unlike most countries in the world where the profession is not regulated, the profession of Economist is regulated by Law. 1411 of August 13, 1951. The professional designation of economist, according to the said law, is exclusive to the bachelors in economics graduates in Brazil.\n\nAccording to the United States Department of Labor, there were about 15,000 non-academic economists in the United States in 2008, with a median salary of roughly $83,000 the top ten percent earning more than $147,040 annually. Nearly 135 colleges and universities grant around 900 new Ph.D.s every year. Incomes are highest for those in the private sector, followed by the federal government, with academia paying the lowest incomes. As of January 2013, PayScale.com showed Ph.D. economists' salary ranges as follows: all Ph.D. economists, $61,000 to $160,000; Ph.D. corporate economists, $71,000 to $207,000; economics full professors, $89,000 to $137,000; economics associate professors, $59,000 to $156,000, and economics assistant professors, $72,000 to $100,000.\n\nThe largest single professional grouping of economists in the UK are the more than 1000 members of the Government Economic Service, who work in 30 government departments and agencies.\n\nAnalysis of destination surveys for economics graduates from a number of selected top schools of economics in the United Kingdom (ranging from Newcastle University to the London School of Economics), shows nearly 80 percent in employment six months after graduation – with a wide range of roles and employers, including regional, national and international organisations, across many sectors. This figure compares very favourably with the national picture, with 64 percent of economics graduates in employment.\n\nSome current well-known economists include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6063358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6063358", "title": "Enlargement of the United Nations", "text": "Enlargement of the United Nations\n\nAs of , there are member states of the United Nations (UN), each of which is a member of the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nThe following is a list of United Nations member states arranged in chronological order according to their dates of admission (with the United Nations Security Council resolutions that recommended their admission and the United Nations General Assembly resolutions that admitted them, signified with SCR and GAR, respectively), including former members. Members denoted with \"→\" changed their names, had their memberships in the UN continued by a successor state, merged with other members, or were dissolved.\n\nThe UN officially came into existence on 24 October 1945, after ratification of the United Nations Charter by the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council (China, France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States) and a majority of the other signatories. A total of 51 original members (or founding members) joined that year; 50 of them signed the Charter at the United Nations Conference on International Organization in San Francisco on 26 June 1945, while Poland, which was not represented at the conference, signed it on 15 October 1945.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBelow is a summary of the growth in UN membership.\n\n"}
{"id": "2995908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2995908", "title": "Girard incident", "text": "Girard incident\n\nIn the of 1957, a Japanese housewife named Naka Sakai was shot and killed by an American soldier, William S. Girard.\n\nOn January 30, 1957, the 46-year-old Sakai was collecting scrap metal on a U.S. Army shooting range in Soumagahara, Gunma Prefecture, Japan. Sakai, a mother of six, earned a living selling scrap metal, and had entered the Army area for the purpose of collecting spent rifle cartridges. Specialist Third Class Girard, a 21-year-old enlisted man from Ottawa, Illinois, used a grenade launcher mounted on an M1 rifle to fire an empty casing at Sakai, which killed her.\n\nThe strong Japanese outcry over the killing led to a jurisdictional dispute between the Japanese authorities and the U.S. Army. The Army maintained that Girard had acted while on duty and was thus under the jurisdiction of U.S. military courts, while the Japanese government held that Girard's actions had taken place during a period of rest, making him subject to Japanese law. Girard had been assigned to guard a machine gun at the firing range in between sessions of target practice; the Japanese contention was that since Girard had not fired a weapon during exercises, he could not be considered as actively on duty. Eventually, Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson ruled that Girard's specific action \"was not authorized\", and he was turned over for trial. Girard appealed this decision to the Supreme Court, but the Court rejected his request for intervention.\n\nAmerican response to Girard's extradition was largely negative. Relatives and supporters in his Illinois hometown drummed up 182 feet of signatures for a petition decrying the decision, the American Legion protested vociferously, the Veterans of Foreign Wars said that Girard had been \"sold down the river\", Senator John Bricker of Ohio called the decision a matter of \"sacrificing an American soldier to appease Japanese public opinion\", and the \"New York Daily News\" summed up its feelings in a headline: \"To the Wolves, Soldier\". In the midst of the uproar, the \"New York Times\", fearing that American reaction was eroding the good will earned in Asia by the initial decision to extradite, published an article lauding the positive interactions between most U.S. soldiers and Japanese civilians, including photographs of soldiers celebrating Christmas with a Japanese family while clothed in traditional Japanese attire.\n\nAt the trial, a Japanese witness for the prosecution asserted that Girard had yelled a warning to Sakai before firing, but Girard himself denied ever having done so, a statement which shocked and mystified observers. According to testimony from Victor Nickel, a soldier of the same rank who had accompanied him, Girard had lured Sakai and other scavengers toward his position by tossing empty casings out onto the range, then fired at Sakai \"for a joke\". Girard claimed that the death had been an accident. The presiding judge, Yuzo Kawachi, went so far as to visit the scene of the incident himself, and pronounced himself \"baffled\" by the discrepancies in Girard's account of events. However, he stated that he could find \"no evidence of deliberate murder\", and Girard was handed only a three-year suspended sentence. He was also demoted to private status by the U.S. Army as a result of his actions; had he been found guilty of murder, he would have been dishonorably discharged.\n\nGirard, who was recorded as having an IQ of 90, was held in little regard by his fellow soldiers, widely viewed as a \"bumpkin clown\" who drank to excess and ran up debts at various Japanese establishments. After his trial, he went home to America with his Taiwan-born Japanese bride, Haru \"Candy\" Sueyama, and was repeatedly booed by fellow servicemen during his return trip.\n\nSakai's widowed husband, Akikichi, and his six children were compensated with US $1,748.32 (US$ in 2018) for their loss, but this monetary offer was perceived as an attempt to buy off justice by many Japanese, and Akikichi stated to U.S. authorities that \"I do not thank you for it.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "39607240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39607240", "title": "Hedgehog Street", "text": "Hedgehog Street\n\nHedgehog Street is a UK-based conservation initiative set up by two charitable organisations, the People's Trust for Endangered Species (PTES) and the British Hedgehog Preservation Society (BHPS). The project was established in 2011 in response to a detected decline in the hedgehog (\"Erinaceus europaeus\") population in Britain, where it is a native species. \n\nAs of January 2017, over 47,000 volunteers have signed up to be ‘Hedgehog Champions’, committing to making changes in their gardens to encourage and support wild hedgehogs (\"Erinaceus europaeus\").\n\nThe Hedgehog Street website provides volunteers with information about the ecology and behaviour of hedgehogs, tips on ways of managing gardens to benefit them, and free resources to encourage volunteers to recruit other people to participate.\n\nOne of the major objectives of the campaign is to work with the public and housing developers to connect gardens and greenspaces with 'Hedgehog Highways', which are holes in fences/boundaries that allow hedgehogs to travel further to find food and nesting sites.\n\nIn July 2014 there was a Hedgehog Street garden at the RHS Hampton Court Palace Flower Show, designed by Tracy Foster, it featured a series of three linked gardens of differing styles. It won a gold medal and the People's Choice Award for 'best small garden'.\n\nIn 2017, Secretary of State for Transport Chris Grayling MP, was appointed the Species Champion for Hedgehogs in Parliament. The Species Champion Project partners Members of Parliament from England with wildlife organisations to bring political support to the protection and promotion of threatened wildlife. The project is run by a group of seven organisations: Amphibian and Reptile Conservation, Bat Conservation Trust, Buglife, Bumblebee Conservation Trust, Butterfly Conservation, Plantlife and the RSPB. Additional support is provided by the Angling Trust, the People's Trust for Endangered Species, the British Hedgehog Preservation Society and Somerset Wildlife Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247788", "title": "Helen Grace Scott Keenan", "text": "Helen Grace Scott Keenan\n\nHelen Grace Reswick Scott Keenan (June 16, 1915 — November 20, 1987), more commonly, Helen Grace Scott, was a United States citizen employed in the Office of Strategic Services and later the Office of U.S Chief Counsel for Prosecution of Axis War Criminals on the staff of Justice Robert H. Jackson during World War II. She was also a broadcaster for Free France in Brazzaville, and later in life, as Helen G. Scott, was a close associate of François Truffaut and other French filmmakers.\n\nHelen Grace Reswick was born in Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of William Reswick and Bessie Schwartz Reswick. She and her brothers were raised in Paris, where their father worked as a journalist with the Associated Press. William Reswick, who was born in Ukraine, was also a correspondent in Moscow from 1922 to 1934, and wrote a memoir of his time there. She was fluent in English and French from childhood.\n\nDuring World War II, Reswick was a radio broadcaster for Free France, based in Brazzaville. After the war, she was a press attache to Justice Robert H. Jackson at the Nuremberg trials. She was recognized later for her wartime work: in 1965, the France Libre medal, and in 1986 she was named a \"Chevalier De l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres\".\n\nBetween 1933 and 1938, Helen Scott served on the Executive Committee of the Workers Alliance, a Comintern affiliate front organization. In 1944, she worked for Congressman Boulton. Keenan had been a freelance journalist in the 1930s before beginning work in the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs (OCIAA) as a writer and editor in 1945. She first worked for the New York line of KGB, then later the Washington, D.C. branch of the KGB. \n\nHelen Grace Scott Keenan's code name in Soviet intelligence, and later as deciphered by the Venona project is \"Fir\" (or \"Spruce\"). \"Firtree\" and \"El\" also occurred. Keenan is referenced in the following Venona decryptions:\n\n\nScott worked as a senior editor at the United Nations headquarters, and from 1959 to 1965 at the French Film Office in New York, as director of public relations. She worked with many French and American filmmakers in this role, including Robert Benton, Milos Forman, Jacques Tati, Alain Resnais, and Jean-Luc Godard. She wrote the English subtitles of French-language films, including \"Manon of the Spring\" and \"Jean de Florette\".\n\nShe assisted François Truffaut as the interpreter in his conversations with Alfred Hitchcock, using both her language skills and her specialized knowledge of film. She collaborated with Truffaut in writing the resulting book, \"Hitchcock/Truffaut\" (1966). She wrote additional dialogue for Truffaut's \"Fahrenheit 451\" (1966), and was among the writers nominated for a Hugo Award when that film was a finalist for Best Dramatic Presentation in 1967. She translated another book of Truffaut's, \"The Adventures of Antoine Doinel\" (1971). Scott was Truffaut's confidante, and their correspondence offers insight into his personal life and relationships.\n\nScott appeared in uncredited cameos in Godard's \"Weekend\" (1967) and Truffaut's \"Bed & Board\" (1970). She also appears in archival footage in the 2015 documentary \"Hitchcock/Truffaut\".\n\nHelen G. Scott was divorced. She died in Paris in 1987, aged 72 years, from a heart attack. Her gravesite is in Montmartre Cemetery, not far from Truffaut's.\n\n"}
{"id": "23877225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23877225", "title": "IATP Food and Society Fellows", "text": "IATP Food and Society Fellows\n\nThe IATP Food and Society Fellows Program provides two-year, part-time fellowships to professionals working to address health, social justice, economic viability, environmental, and other issues in food and farming systems. The program started in 2001 as a collaboration between the Jefferson Institute and the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy (IATP), with the guidance and support of the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. The program is currently administered by IATP and funded by the W.K. Kellogg Foundation and the Woodcock Foundation. Generally, 8-12 fellows are selected each year; 72 fellows have been selected through 2009.\n\nThe goals of the Food & Society Policy Fellows Program are to:\n\nFood and Society Fellows organized by the year of their award.\n"}
{"id": "39935375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39935375", "title": "Indigenous peoples and the UN-REDD Program in Panama", "text": "Indigenous peoples and the UN-REDD Program in Panama\n\nFollowing a series of disputes regarding the participation of indigenous peoples in the Panama UN-REDD National Programme, the National Coordinating Body of the Indigenous Peoples of Panama (COONAPIP) announced their withdrawal from the climate change mitigation program on February 25, 2013. COONAPIP, which brings together the country´s seven indigenous peoples and their 12 traditional indigenous representative structures, cited a failure to ensure guarantees of respect for indigenous rights and the full and effective participation of indigenous peoples, and a breach of agreements made during the process of the program´s approval. In March 2013, the Panama UN-REDD National Programme was suspended pending the results of an independent investigation and evaluation. The dispute was highlighted as an important development in the broader context of global policy efforts to implement initiatives to Reduce Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD+), which were at the time grappling with issues around the participation of indigenous peoples and forest communities in related initiatives, including the implementation of Free, Prior and Informed Consent. Preliminary results of an independent investigation and evaluation commissioned by the UN-REDD Programme were published, as well as a study of the conflict by a Central American non-governmental research center.\n\nIn December 2013, the Panama UN-REDD National Programme was reopened following agreement between the Panama Government, through its National Environmental Authority (ANAM), and indigenous peoples, through the National Coordinating Entity of Indigenous Peoples in Panama (COONAPIP). This was realized through extensive consultations between ANAM and COONAPIP to resolve issues and develop an Environmental Agenda between indigenous peoples and the ANAM, which includes a revised result framework of the UN-REDD National Joint Programme of Panama. The General Assembly of COONAPIP, which took place on 29 November 2013 in Playa Muerto, in the Darien province of Panama, approved the Environmental Agenda jointly developed between ANAM and COONAPIP. \n\nOn the reopening of the National Programme in Panama, Candido Mezua, President of COONAPIP said, \"We feel satisfied that the process followed with ANAM will help us to correct issues, and COONAPIP is going to engage again in the Programme.\" He added, \"It is time to trust again\".\n\nMezua emphasized that REDD+ had to be conducted with full respect for the rights of indigenous peoples, asking for the support of UN agencies to ensure that rights such as free, prior and informed consent (FPIC) are respected and appropriate grievance mechanisms are made available for indigenous peoples. He further underscored the complexities and nuances of REDD+ and offered COONAPIP's contribution to national REDD+ efforts.\n\nIn December 2013, UN-REDD Programme Policy Board congratulated Panama on its progress towards resolving the differences with the National Coordinating Body of Indigenous Peoples in Panama (COONAPIP) and announced the approval of a no-cost extension of Panama's National UN-REDD Programme until June 2015. The extension was approved together with a review of the new results framework of the Programme and with the full agreement of COONAPIP, who co-presented on a panel with the Government of Panama's National Environment Authority (ANAM) at the Eleventh Meeting of the UN-REDD Programme Policy Board, which took place from 9-10 December 2013 in Geneva.\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme Policy Board, composed of representatives of partner countries, indigenous peoples and civil society, donor countries and UN agencies, was deeply appreciative of progress made in Panama and of the joint efforts of COONAPIP, ANAM and the UN-REDD Programme to resolve the conflict. Members noted that the experiences in Panama provided valuable lessons for other REDD+ countries and highlighted the importance of strong stakeholder engagement processes.\n"}
{"id": "50740518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50740518", "title": "International Decision Support Initiative", "text": "International Decision Support Initiative\n\nThe International Decision Support Initiative (iDSI) is a partnership between governments, universities, and thinktanks that helps health policy makers make better decisions. iDSI targets low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), helping them prioritize health interventions as a means toward universal health coverage. iDSI launched in November 2013 as the result of a 2012 Center for Global Development working group.\n\nThe following organizations are iDSI's core partners:\n\n\nOther partners include Centre for Health Economics (at the University of York), Imperial College London, Itad, Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Meteos, Office of Health Economics, the University of Glasgow, and the University of Strathclyde.\n\niDSI receives funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the UK Department for International Development, and the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nIn December 2015, iDSI received $12.8 million in funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for phase 2 of its operations.\n\niDSI has operated in China, India, Indonesia, Myanmar, the Philippines, South Africa, and Vietnam as \"focus countries\", but has also operated in additional countries.\n\nMost of iDSI's work has focused on noncommunicable diseases, maternal and child death, and more general priority-setting.\n\nAs part of their focus on universal health care, iDSI has also worked on priority setting for mental health.\n\niDSI is one of the collaborators for DCP3.\n\n"}
{"id": "26938087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26938087", "title": "Investment Corporation of Dubai", "text": "Investment Corporation of Dubai\n\nThe Investment Corporation of Dubai (ICD) is a state-owned holding company that can be characterized as a sovereign wealth fund owned by the government of Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Established in May 2006 with the transfer of the government's portfolio of investments from The Department of Finance's Investment Division, its role is to supervise the government's investment portfolio while adding value.\n\nThe funds key investments include:\n\nInvestment Corporation of Dubai\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35286329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35286329", "title": "John Joe Gray", "text": "John Joe Gray\n\nJohn Joe Gray (born 15 March 1950) claims to be a sovereign citizen and was a fugitive from the law. He currently lives on his 50-acre, wooded ranch in Trinidad, Texas. He was involved in the longest-running law enforcement standoff in American history, lasting a few days short of 15 years, before the district attorney dropped the charges.\n\nThe standoff began when Gray jumped bail after being indicted on two counts of felony assault. During a traffic stop in Anderson County, he allegedly attacked Texas Trooper Jim Cleland. A struggle ensued after Cleland reached for a .357 caliber handgun in the car in which Gray was in. Anti-government pamphlets and references to setting off a bomb on a highway overpass near Dallas were found in the vehicle. Gray was charged with two felonies, assault of a public servant and taking a police officer's weapon. After promising to have no access to weapons while awaiting hearing, he was out on bail when the judge held his bond insufficient and ordered the re-arrest of John Joe Gray.\n\nLocal Henderson County Sheriff Ray Nutt has stated \"This kook is not worth it. Ten of him is not worth going up there and getting one of my young deputies killed.\"\n"}
{"id": "46616143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46616143", "title": "Kendall Carroll", "text": "Kendall Carroll\n\nKendall Carroll was shot March 19, 2013, just two weeks after the fatal Albuquerque Police Department (APD) shooting of Parrish Dennison. Kendall and his brother were both involved in an officer stand off. The stand off lasted for more than four hours. Michael the younger brother surrendered midway while Kendall continued on. State police sniper Shane Todd fired the lethal shot to end the stand off.\n\nThroughout the altercation police threw tear gas into the apartment that the men were shooting at them from. Police were originally called to the scene because Kendall was a suspect in an earlier shooting which involved wounding an APD officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "33611789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33611789", "title": "Kisi language (Tanzania)", "text": "Kisi language (Tanzania)\n\nKisi is a Bantu language of Tanzania. Though only half or so of the Kisi people speak the language, use is vigorous where it is still spoken.\n"}
{"id": "34962746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34962746", "title": "Kolarian", "text": "Kolarian\n\nAccording to Cust & Cust, Kolarian is a word first used by George Campbell. He described it as one of the three non-Aryan language families of India, which he made up, along with the Tibeto-Burman and the Dravidian. \n\nCust & Cust conjecture that the Austroasiatic language family, its speakers were found in the then colonial provinces of Bengal, Madras and the Central provinces. They include the following languages as belonging to the group:\n\n\nGenders for animate and inanimate are different. Oblique forms for its nouns do not exist. It has a dual number and doesn't have a negative voice. There are two forms for each tense, which give the verb a transitive and intransitive meaning. There is variation in the meaning of the root achieved by infixing syllables, but the letters of the root remain unchanged Hastings considers Kolarian \"radically distinct\" from Dravidian, and an extreme example of an Agglutinative language. According to him its morphology \"remotely resembles the Finno-Turki branch of the Ural-Altaic family. However on all other parameters it is completely different from \"all other known forms of speech\".\n"}
{"id": "1970496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1970496", "title": "Lead paint", "text": "Lead paint\n\nLead paint or lead-based paint is paint containing lead. As pigment, lead(II) chromate (Pb Cr O, \"chrome yellow\"), Lead(II,IV) oxide, (Pb O, \"red lead\"), and lead(II) carbonate (Pb C O, \"white lead\") are the most common forms. Lead is added to paint to accelerate drying, increase durability, maintain a fresh appearance, and resist moisture that causes corrosion. It is one of the main health and environmental hazards associated with paint. In some countries, lead continues to be added to paint intended for domestic use, whereas countries such as the U.S. and the UK have regulations prohibiting this, although lead paint may still be found in older properties painted prior to the introduction of such regulations. Although lead has been banned from household paints in the United States since 1978, paint used in road markings may still contain it. Alternatives such as water-based, lead-free traffic paint are readily available, and many states and federal agencies have changed their purchasing contracts to buy these instead.\n\nLead white was being produced during the 4th century BC; the process is described by Pliny the Elder, Vitruvius and the ancient Greek author Theophrastus.\n\nThe traditional method making the pigment was called the stack process. Hundreds or thousands of earthenware pots containing vinegar and lead were embedded in a layer of either tan bark or cow feces. The pots were designed so that the vinegar and lead were in separate compartments, but the lead was in contact with the vapor of the vinegar. The lead was usually coiled into a spiral, and placed on a ledge inside the pot. The pot was loosely covered with a grid of lead, which allowed the carbon dioxide formed by the fermentation of the tan bark or the dung to circulate in the pot. Each layer of pots was covered by a new layer of tan, then another layer of pots. the heat created by the fermentation, acetic acid vapor and carbon dioxide within the stack did their work, and within a month the lead coils were covered with a crust of white lead. This crust was separated from the lead, washed and ground for pigment. This was an extremely dangerous process for the workmen. Medieval texts warned of the danger of \"apoplexy, epilepsy, and paralysis\" from working with lead white.\n\nDespite the risks, the pigment was very popular with artists because of its density and opacity; a small amount could cover a large surface. It was widely used by artists until the 19th century, when it was replaced by zinc white and titanium white.\n\nThe dangers of lead paint were considered well-established by the beginning of the 20th century. In the July 1904 edition of its monthly publication, Sherwin-Williams reported the dangers of paint containing lead, noting that a French expert had deemed lead paint \"poisonous in a large degree, both for the workmen and for the inhabitants of a house painted with lead colors\". As early as 1886, German health laws prohibited women and children from working in factories processing lead paint and lead sugar. In 1786, Benjamin Franklin wrote a letter warning a friend about the hazards of lead and lead paint, which he considered well-established.\n\nThe League of Nations began efforts to ban lead paint in 1921.\n\nLead paint is hazardous. It can cause nervous system damage, stunted growth, kidney damage, and delayed development. It is dangerous to children because it tastes sweet, therefore encouraging children to put lead chips and toys with lead dust in their mouths. Lead paint is dangerous to adults and can cause reproductive problems in men or women. Decreases in sperm production in men have been noted. Lead is considered a possible and likely carcinogen. High levels may result in death.\n\nThe European Union has passed a directive controlling lead paint use.\n\nIn Canada, regulations were first enacted under the Hazardous Products Act in 1976 that limited lead content of paints and other liquid coatings on furniture, household products, children's products, and exterior and interior surfaces of any building frequented by children to 0.5% by weight. New regulations on surface coating materials, which came into force in 2005, further limit lead to its background level for both interior and exterior paints sold to consumers. Canadian paint manufacturers have been conforming to this background level in their interior and exterior consumer paints since 1991. Nevertheless, a Canadian company, Dominion Colour Corporation, is \"the largest manufacturer of lead-based paint pigments in the world\" and has faced public criticism for obtaining permission from the European Chemicals Agency to continue to export lead chromate paints from its Dutch subsidiary to countries where its uses are not tightly regulated.\n\nThe United States' Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) banned lead paint in 1977 in residential properties and public buildings (16 CFR 1303), along with toys and furniture containing lead paint. The cited reason was \"to reduce the risk of lead poisoning in children who may ingest paint chips or peelings\". For manufacturers, the CPSC instituted the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, which changed the cap on lead content in paint from 0.06% to 0.009% starting August 14, 2009. In 2018 the State of Delaware banned the use of lead paint on outdoor structures.\n\nIn April 2010 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency required that all renovators working in homes built before 1978 and disturbing more than six square feet of lead paint inside the home or 20 square feet outside the home be certified. EPA's Lead Renovation, Repair and Painting Rule (RRP Rule) lowers the risk of lead contamination from home renovation activities. It requires that firms performing renovation, repair, and painting projects that disturb lead-based paint in homes, child care facilities and pre-schools (any child occupied facility) built before 1978 be certified by EPA and use certified renovators who are trained by EPA-approved training providers to follow lead-safe work practices.\n\nAs of 2018, there are an estimated 37 million homes and apartments with lead paint in the United States.\n\nThe Philippines banned lead paint in 2013, but in 2017, 15% of the paint still was not certified.\n\nLead paint is not prohibited in India. A 2015 study found that over 31% of household paints in India had lead concentration above 10,000 parts per million (ppm), which far exceeds the BIS standard of 90 ppm for lead in paint.\n\nIn South Africa, the Hazardous Substances Act of 2009 classifies lead as a hazardous substance and limits its use in paint to 600 parts per million (ppm). A proposed amendment will modify this to 90 ppm, thereby almost completely eradicating lead from paint. The amendment would also include all industrial paints, which were previously excluded.\n\nIn art, white lead paint is known as \"flake white\" or \"Cremnitz white\". It is valued for the ease of handling and resilience the lead confers to oil paints. Lead white paint dries relatively quickly to form a strong, flexible paint film. Lead-based white is one of the oldest manufactured pigments. It was the only white pigment available to artists in appreciable quantities until the twentieth century, when zinc-white and titanium-white became available. Industrially produced lead white, the typical pigment from the 19th century until its ban, was thought to be inferior to traditionally fabricated forms, which had larger \"flake\" particles that conferred ease of handling.\n\nTitanium and zinc whites are far less toxic than lead white and have largely supplanted it in most fine arts applications. Safety regulations have also made lead white more expensive and difficult to obtain in some regions, such as the EU. However, lead white oil paints are still produced and in use by artists who prefer their unique handling, mixing, and structural qualities.\n\nFlake white has various drawbacks, including a tendency to become transparent over time. It also blackens in the presence of certain atmospheric pollutants, although this can be reversed.\n\nLead is not a traditional pigment in water mediums, as zinc is superior for works on paper, as is calcium hydroxide (slaked lime) for frescos. Lead-based paints, when used on paper, often cause the work to become discolored after long periods of time; the paint's lead carbonate reacts with hydrogen sulfide in the air and with acids, which often come from fingerprints.\n\nPaint manufacturers have replaced white lead with a less toxic substitute, titanium white (based on the pigment titanium dioxide), which was first used in paints in the 19th century. Titanium dioxide is considered safe enough to use as a food coloring and in toothpaste. It is also a common ingredient in sunscreen. When used in paints today, it is often coated with silicon or aluminum oxides for durability. Titanium white has far greater opacity and tinting strength than lead white, and it can easily overpower most other pigments if not mixed carefully. Titanium white has been criticized for leading to \"chalkiness\" in mixtures, and for allegedly decreasing the permanence of organic pigments mixed with it due to its high refractive index.\n\nZinc white is less opaque and weaker in tinting strength than either titanium white or lead white. It is commonly used to lighten mixtures subtly while maintaining transparency. Although zinc white is the standard white in watercolors, its structural soundness in oils has been debated. Zinc white dries slowly and creates a relatively inflexible paint film. Critics of the pigment argue that its use leads to excessive cracking and delamination, even when used sparingly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2231967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2231967", "title": "List of major crimes in Singapore", "text": "List of major crimes in Singapore\n\nThe following is a list of major crimes in Singapore. They are arranged in chronological order.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3698996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3698996", "title": "List of military unit mottoes by country", "text": "List of military unit mottoes by country\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRepublic of China Armed Force\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe mottoes of the Indian Armed Forces units come from Sanskrit, English, or a regional language the specific unit is closely affiliated with. Some however are laurels won on the field and are in the language of the enemy or the commander's praise.\n\nUnits within the Indonesian National Armed Forces and Indonesian National Police have mottoes taken from Sanskrit, Old Javanese, and Indonesian language. \n\n\n\n\nKorean Army: Power in Unity\n\n3rd Infantry Division \"White skull\" : 살아도 백골, 죽어도 백골 (We are white skull. Dead or Alive)\n\n\nMalaysian Army: Gagah Setia (Strong and Loyal)\nRoyal Ranger Regiment: Agi Idup Agi Ngelaban (Whilst there is life,there is fight)\n\nNote: The 1st,5th,6th,8th and 10th Rangers uses the same motto,which is \"Agi Idup Agi Ngelaban\".\n\nRejimen Sempadan (Border Regiment): Setia Waspada (Loyal and Alert)\n\nRejimen Semboyan Diraja (Royal Signs Regiment): Pantas dan Pasti (Swift and Sure)\n\nKor Agama Angkatan Tentera (Religious Corps of the Armed Forces of Malaysia): Berjuang Berakhlak\n\nKor Armor DiRaja (Royal Armored Corps): Bersatu (United)\n\nKor Risik DiRaja (Royal Intelligence Corps): Pintar dan Cergas (Intelligent and Active)\n\nRoyal Malaysian Navy:Sedia Berkorban (Ready to Sacrifice)\n\nRoyal Malaysian Air Force: Sentiasa di Angkasa Raya (Always in the Skies)\n\nDefend Service [\"Never Surrender\"]\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSouth African Army\nSouth African Air Force: Per aspera ad astra (English:Through hardships to the stars)\nSouth African Special Forces\n\nSpanish Military: \"Todo por la Patria\" (Spanish for \"Everything for the Motherland\")\n\n\n\nTunisian Armed Forces\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15209547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15209547", "title": "Looking Outward", "text": "Looking Outward\n\nLooking Outward: A History of the U.S. Prison System from Colonial Times to the Formation of the Bureau of Prisons by the \"Birdman of Alcatraz\", Robert Stroud, is a history of the United States Prison System from colonial times until the formation of the United States Bureau of Prisons in the 1930s.\n\nRobert Stroud gained the permission of the Warden at Alcatraz Penitentiary, San Francisco, California to write a history of the U.S. prison system. Stroud had been incarcerated at McNeil Island, Leavenworth Penitentiary, Alcatraz Island and lastly at the United States Medical Center for Federal Prisoners. Stroud interviewed inmates, guards and administrative personnel at all those prisons. He also researched the written records on all of the other U.S. federal penitentiaries.\n\nWhen Stroud finished his manuscript, he asked permission from the Warden at the Medical Center for Federal Prisoners at Springfield, Missouri, to send his manuscript to prospective publishers. The Springfield Warden sent his request to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons at Washington, D.C. who refused Stroud's request to offer his manuscript for publication. The Director said that Stroud's manuscript aroused prurient interest in homosexual activity and slandered the reputation of some guards, whom Stroud described as sadistic, and libeled some wardens, whom Stroud described as incompetent or corrupt.\n\nCharles Dudley Martin of Missouri represented Stroud in his lawsuit against the Warden of United States Medical Center for Federal Prisoners and the Director of the Bureau of Prisons. When Stroud died, (the day before President John F. Kennedy was assassinated), the judge ordered Stroud's manuscripts to be impounded in custody of the Clerk for the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri at Kansas City. The Probate Court of the State of Missouri for Jackson County at Kansas City appointed Mr. Martin as administrator of Stroud's hand written will.\n\nWhen Mr. Martin presented his letters of administration to the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri and moved for custody of Stroud's manuscripts, the Bureau of Prisons dropped their objections after a hail of public criticism. The U.S. District Court then ordered the manuscripts delivered to the offices of Mr. Martin as administrator of Robert Stroud's estate.\n\nAn experienced literary agent in New York City was then retained, who offered a copy of \"Looking Outward\" to several New York publishers. Although they praised the manuscript, they declined to publish it. The prisoners, guards and wardens described by Stroud were at that time still alive. Only Stroud, who was dead, and his prisoner witnesses, who were scattered, could verify the claims of abuse and corruption. All of the publishers approached declined to publish Stroud's manuscript, fearing civil suits for publication of defamatory writings, along with potential civil damage suits for libel.\n\nAs of the 26th of December 2007, Mr. Martin still had Stroud's manuscript of \"Looking Outward\" in his possession, together with Stroud's hand written autobiography \"Bobbie\". Mr. Martin also has the hand written notes of Thomas E. Gaddis, who wrote the biography and screen play of \"Birdman of Alcatraz\".\n\nWith the court orders removing them from custody of the U. S. District Court and transferring them to Mr. Martin as the administrator of Stroud's estate, together with Thomas Gaddis's notes of \"Birdman of Alcatraz\", Mr. Martin has consigned the manuscript and partnered with Springfield, MO author; JE Cornwell. Together they will try to attract a major publishing company to publish the manuscript into four books. Mr. Martin also intends to put the original hand written manuscript up for sale at an auction-house, which has locations in both New York, New York and San Francisco, California.\n\nIn early 2014, the imminent publication of Stroud's manuscript was reported by several news outlets.\n\nOn February 5, 2014, \"Looking Outward: A Voice From The Grave\" was made available for purchase as an Amazon Kindle eBook. By January 2015 it was also available in paperback form. As noted in the book's Prologue, \"[the] work was originally divided into six parts. However, due to the death of the Writer, only four parts were completed\" and the 2014 edition contains only the first of four parts of the entire manuscript, but as of Fall 2015 no additional date was known for the availability of the other three parts.\n\n"}
{"id": "22897313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22897313", "title": "M. Stanton Evans", "text": "M. Stanton Evans\n\nMedford Stanton Evans (July 20, 1934 – March 3, 2015), better known as M. Stanton Evans, was an American journalist, author and educator. He was the author of eight books, including \"Blacklisted by History: The Untold Story of Senator Joe McCarthy and His Fight Against America's Enemies\" (2007).\n\nEvans was born in Kingsville in Kleberg County in South Texas, the son of Medford Bryan Evans, an author, college professor at Northwestern State University in Natchitoches, Louisiana, and official of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, and the classics scholar Josephine Stanton Evans. He grew up in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area.\n\nEvans graduated in 1955 \"magna cum laude\" from Yale University, Phi Beta Kappa, with a Bachelor of Arts in English, followed by graduate work in Economics at New York University under Ludwig von Mises.\n\nAs an undergraduate, Evans was an editor for the \"Yale Daily News\". It was at Yale that he read \"One Is a Crowd\" by Frank Chodorov. In \"The Conservative Intellectual Movement in America Since 1945\", George H. Nash writes:\n\nUpon graduation, Evans became assistant editor of \"The Freeman,\" where Chodorov was editor. The following year, he joined the staff of William F. Buckley's fledgling \"National Review\" (where he served as associate editor from 1960 to 1973), and became managing editor of \"Human Events\", where he remained a contributing editor until his death.\n\nEvans became a proponent of \"National Review\" co-editor Frank Meyer's \"fusionism\", a political philosophy reconciling the traditionalist and libertarian tendencies of the conservative movement. He argued that freedom and virtue are not antagonistic, but complementary:\nIn 1959, Evans became head editorial writer of \"The Indianapolis News\", rising to editor the following year—at 26, the nation's youngest editor of a metropolitan daily newspaper—a position he held until 1974. In 1971, Evans became a commentator for the CBS Television and Radio Networks, and in 1980 became a commentator for National Public Radio, the Voice of America, Radio America and WGMS in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 1974, he became a nationally syndicated columnist for \"The Los Angeles Times\" syndicate. Barry Goldwater wrote that Evans \"writes with the strength and conviction and authority of experience.\" In a 1975 radio address, Ronald Reagan cited Evans as \"a very fine journalist.\" In 1977, he founded the National Journalism Center, of which he served as director until 2002. The center sponsors young journalists getting established in the nation's capital. Cliff Kincaid of Accuracy in Media was among those who began their careers through Evans' auspices. In 1980, Evans became an adjunct professor of journalism at Troy University in Troy, Alabama, where he held the Buchanan Chair of Journalism.\n\nFrom 1981 to 2002, he was publisher of \"Consumers' Research\" magazine. Evans expressed his journalistic philosophy as follows:\n\nEvans was present at Great Elm, the family home of William F. Buckley in Sharon, Connecticut, at the founding of Young Americans for Freedom, where, on September 11, 1960, he drafted YAF's charter, the Sharon Statement. Some conservatives still revere this document as a concise statement of their principles.\n\nFrom 1971 to 1977, Evans served as chairman of the American Conservative Union (ACU). He was one of the first conservatives to denounce U.S. President Richard M. Nixon, just a year into his first term, co-writing a January 1970 ACU report condemning his record. Under Evans' leadership, the ACU issued a July 1971 statement concluding, \"the American Conservative Union has resolved to suspend our support of the Administration.\" Evans often joked that he \"never liked Nixon \"until\" Watergate.\"\n\nIn June 1975, the ACU called upon Ronald Reagan of California to challenge incumbent Gerald R. Ford, Jr., for the 1976 Republican presidential nomination. In June 1982, Evans and others met with now-President Reagan to warn him that the White House staff was undermining Reagan by making a deal with the Democratic Congress. (Reagan subsequently made such a deal in which for each $1 in higher taxes Congress promised $3 in spending cuts; Reagan delivered the tax hike, but Congress broke its promise and actually increased spending.)\n\nIn 1974, upon leaving the now-defunct \"The Indianapolis News\" after 15 years, he taught journalism at Troy University in Troy, Alabama for more than thirty years. From 1977 to 2002, he led the National Journalism Center in Washington, D.C., which was established with financial help from the conservative movement and brought promising beginning journalists to the nation's capital. He founded the Education and Research Institute. He was the president of the Philadelphia Society, a member of the Council for National Policy, sat on the advisory board of Young Americans for Freedom, and was a trustee of the Intercollegiate Studies Institute (ISI). He was an advisor to the National Tax Limitation Committee.\n\nEvans was awarded honorary doctorates from Syracuse University, John Marshall Law School, Grove City College and Francisco Marroquín University. He is a past winner of two Freedom Foundation awards for editorial writing and the National Headliners Club Award for \"consistently outstanding editorial pages.\" Evans was also awarded the Heartland Institute's Heartland Freedom Prize, the Media Research Center's William F. Buckley Jr. Award for Media Excellence, Accuracy in Media's Reed Irvine award for excellence in journalism, the \"American Spectator\"'s Barbara Olson Award for Excellence & Independence in Journalism, the Ashbrook Center for Public Affairs' John M. Ashbrook Award, the ISI's Regnery Award for Distinguished Institutional Service and four Freedoms Foundation George Washington medals. Troy University's Hall School of Journalism hosts an annual M. Stanton Evans symposium named in his honor. There is also the M. Stanton Evans Alumni Award.\n\nBecky Norton Dunlop, an official of the Heritage Foundation, said that Evans had a sense of humor that\n\n"}
{"id": "19995051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19995051", "title": "Mafia Raj", "text": "Mafia Raj\n\nMafia Raj () refers to a criminalised nexus (or \"mafia\") of government officials, elected politicians, business interests and other entities (such as law-enforcement authorities, non-governmental organisations, trade unions or criminal organisations).\n\nIn India (where the term originated) it can refer to cities, states, government departments, public sector businesses or entire sectors of the economy that are subject to these conditions. Due to the ability of these mafias to operate their illegal activities in a sustained fashion, sometimes openly and with the use of violent intimidation, terms like Goonda Raj (\"rule of the goons\"), Jungle Raj (\"law of the jungle\") and Anarchy are used to refer to the same phenomenon.\n\nIn the Indian and Pakistani media, the mafias are usually mentioned by the name of the economic sector in which they are involved. Terms such as coal mafia, timber mafia (sometimes forest mafia), contractor mafia (sometimes road construction mafia or road contract mafia) and land mafia are commonly used.\nThe state-owned coal mines of Bihar (now Jharkhand after the division of Bihar state) were among the first areas in India to see the emergence of a sophisticated mafia, beginning with the mining town of Dhanbad. It is alleged that the coal industry's trade union leadership forms the upper echelon of this arrangement and employs caste allegiances to maintain its power. Pilferage and sale of coal on the black market, inflated or fictitious supply expenses, falsified worker contracts and the expropriation and leasing-out of government land have allegedly become routine. A parallel economy has developed with a significant fraction of the local population employed by the mafia in manually transporting the stolen coal for long distances over unpaved roads to illegal mafia warehouses and points of sale.\n\nThe coal mafia has had a negative effect on Indian industry, with coal supplies and quality varying erratically. Higher quality coal is sometimes selectively diverted, and missing coal is replaced with stones and boulders in railway cargo wagons. A human corpse has been discovered in a sealed coal wagon.\n\nIn June 2012, the Bollywood epic \"Gangs of Wasseypur\" was released portraying the coal mafia in the area of Dhanbad. The movie received overwhelming response and was declared a hit. Another Bollywood movie Gunday was also loosely based upon coal mafia.\n\nProtected forest areas in parts of India – such as Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka and Jharkhand – are vulnerable to illegal logging by timber mafias that have coopted or intimidated forestry officials, local politicians, businesses and citizenry.\n\nMany state-funded construction activities in India, such as road building, are dominated by construction mafias, which are groupings of corrupt public works officials, materials suppliers, politicians and construction contractors. Shoddy construction and material substitution (e.g., mixing sand in cement while submitting expenses for cement) result in roads and highways being dangerous and sometimes simply washed away when India's heavy monsoon season arrives.\n\nIn a widely covered case, Satyendra Dubey, a project director with the National Highways Authority of India, was murdered in 2003, allegedly because he had written a letter exposing deep-seated contractor mafia involvement in the construction of a section of the prestigious Golden Quadrilateral project to the prime minister's office. Although a CBI investigative report after the assassination stated that there was no contractor mafia involvement in Dubey's murder, his family and supporters maintained that an attempt at a cover-up was being made.\n\nAttempts have been made to reduce mafia influence by making construction tendering processes more transparent, sometimes by attempting to move them online, so that a complete audit trail of bids and activity is maintained. Construction mafias are alleged to have used their political influence decisively to frustrate many such attempts, for example, in the public works for which the Municipal Corporation of Delhi is responsible.\n\nIn cities and villages throughout India, mafias consisting of municipal and other government officials, elected politicians, judicial and law enforcement officials, acquire, develop and sell land in illegal ways for profit. Sometimes, government land or land ostensibly acquired for some legitimate government purpose is then handed over to real estate developers AR who build commercial and residential properties and sell them in the open market, often with the connivance of administrative and police officials.\n\nIn one set of allegations in Karnataka, a lake was filled in and government buildings torn down after illegal transfers to a developer by mafia-connected officials. Eminent domain laws, intended to procure private land at relatively low prices for public benefit or redistribution to poorer people under social justice programs, are abused to pressure landholders to sell land to a government entity, which transfers the land to developers at those low prices, and who in turn sell it back on the market at much higher prices.\n\nComputerisation of records relating to the classification of tracts and land ownership is a key tool in countering the illegal activities of land mafias, since it creates transparency on all information relating to a given parcel of land. This approach has been effective in Bangalore, but efforts to extend it elsewhere have sometimes met with strong resistance by land mafias, manifesting itself as bureaucratic inaction.\n\nFocused vigilance in specific areas by government agencies has acted as a deterrent to land mafia activities. For example, the land mafia in the Noida area, on the outskirts of Delhi, was reported to have illegally begun carving out plots for commercial sale on land identified by the Central Zoo Authority of India as the site for India's first Night Safari park. Subsequent to coverage in the press, vigorous legal action by the Greater Noida Authority reportedly led to this mafia alliance backing away from this theft, although it may have shifted its attention to illegally encroaching on land along the Taj Expressway, connecting Delhi and Agra, which is expected to become quite valuable.\n\n"}
{"id": "237494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237494", "title": "Management information system", "text": "Management information system\n\nA management information system (MIS) is an information system used for decision-making, and for the coordination, control, analysis, and visualization of information in an organization; especially in a company.\n\nThe study of management information systems examines people and technology in an organizational context.\n\nIn a corporate setting, the ultimate goal of the use of a management information system is to increase the value and profits of the business.\n\nWhile it can be contested that the history of management information systems date as far back as companies using ledgers to keep track of accounting, the modern history of MIS can be divided into five \"eras\" originally identified by Kenneth C. Laudon and Jane Laudon in their seminal textbook \"Management Information Systems.\"\n\n\nThe \"first era\" (mainframe and minicomputer computing) was ruled by IBM and their mainframe computers for which they supplied both the hardware and software. These computers would often take up whole rooms and require teams to run them. As technology advanced, these computers were able to handle greater capacities and therefore reduce their cost. Smaller, more affordable minicomputers allowed larger businesses to run their own computing centers in-house / on-site / on-premises.\n\nThe \"second era\" (personal computers) began in 1965 as microprocessors started to compete with mainframes and minicomputers and accelerated the process of decentralizing computing power from large data centers to smaller offices. In the late 1970s, minicomputer technology gave way to personal computers and relatively low-cost computers were becoming mass market commodities, allowing businesses to provide their employees access to computing power that ten years before would have cost tens of thousands of dollars. This proliferation of computers created a ready market for interconnecting networks and the popularization of the Internet. (The first microprocessor — a four-bit device intended for a programmable calculator — was introduced in 1971 and microprocessor-based systems were not readily available for several years. The MITS Altair 8800 was the first commonly known microprocessor-based system, followed closely by the Apple I and II. It is arguable that the microprocessor-based system did not make significant inroads into minicomputer use until 1979, when VisiCalc prompted record sales of the Apple II on which it ran. The IBM PC introduced in 1981 was more broadly palatable to business, but its limitations gated its ability to challenge minicomputer systems until perhaps the late 1980s to early 1990s.)\n\nThe \"third era\" (client/server networks) arose as technological complexity increased, costs decreased, and the end-user (now the ordinary employee) required a system to share information with other employees within an enterprise. Computers on a common network shared information on a server. This lets thousands and even millions of people access data simultaneously on networks referred to as Intranets. \n\nThe \"fourth era\" (enterprise computing) enabled by high speed networks, consolidated the original department specific software applications into integrated software platforms referred to as enterprise software. This new platform tied all aspects of the business enterprise together offering rich information access encompassing the complete management structure.\n\nThe \"fifth era\" (cloud computing) is the latest and employs networking technology to deliver applications as well as data storage independent of the configuration, location, or nature of the hardware. This, along with high speed cellphone and Wi-Fi networks, has led to new levels of mobility in which managers may access the MIS remotely with laptops, tablet computers and smartphones.\n\nThe terms management information systems (MIS), information system (IS) , enterprise resource planning (ERP), computer science, electrical computer engineering, and information technology management (IT) are often confused. MIS is a hierarchical subset of information systems. MIS are more organization-focused narrowing in on leveraging information technology to increase business value. Computer science is more software-focused dealing with the applications that may be used in MIS. Electrical computer engineering is product-focused mainly dealing with the architecture behind computer systems. ERP software is a subset of MIS and IT management refers to the technical management of an IT department which may include MIS.\n\nWhile management information systems can be used by any and every level of management, the decision of which systems to implement generally falls upon the chief information officers (CIO) and chief technology officers (CTO). These officers are generally responsible for the overall technology strategy of an organization including evaluating how new technology can help their organization. They act as decision makers in the implementation process of new MIS.\n\nOnce decisions have been made, IT directors, including MIS directors, are in charge of the technical implementation of the system. They are also in charge of implementing the policies affecting the MIS (either new specific policies passed down by the CIOs or CTOs or policies that align the new systems with the organizations overall IT policy). It is also their role to ensure the availability of data and network services as well as the security of the data involved by coordinating IT activities.\n\nUpon implementation, the assigned users will have the appropriate access to relevant information. It is important to note that not everyone inputting data into MIS need necessarily be management level. It is common practice to have inputs to MIS be inputted by non-managerial employees though they rarely have access to the reports and decision support platforms offered by these systems.\n\nThe following are types of information systems used to create reports, extract data, and assist in the decision making processes of middle and operational level managers.\n\n\nThe following are some of the benefits that can be attained using MIS:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7683073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7683073", "title": "Manganiar", "text": "Manganiar\n\nThe Manganiar or Manghanhar [Sindhi مڱڻھار] and related Langha are Muslim communities in Sindh, Pakistan and in the desert of Rajasthan, India in the districts of Barmer and Jaisalmer, along the border of Sindh province of Pakistan. Majority of Manghanhar are found in the districts of Tharparkar, Sanghar, Mirpur Khas, Tando Allahyar, Hyderabad, Badin, Sujawal, Thatta, Jamshoro in Sindh Pakistan. They are known for their folk music. They are groups of hereditary musicians whose music has been supported by wealthy landlords and aristocrats for generations.\n\nThe Manganiars consider themselves descendants of the Rajputs and are renowned as folk musicians of the Thar desert. Their songs are passed on from generation to generation as a form of oral history of the desert. They sing songs about Alexander the Great, about the local Maharajas and past battles in the region. Manganiars have survived for centuries on the patronage of wealthy merchants in caravan towns, particularly Jaisalmer where there is an important settled community today. The traditional jajman (patrons) of the Manganiar are the locally dominant Rajput community, while the Langha have a similar relationship with the Sindhi-Sipahi, a community of Muslim Rajputs. At times of birth, marriage or any family festivity for their Rajput patrons, the Manganiar musicians sing songs of the desert and many specially composed songs to praise the patron and his family .\n\nThough Manganiar and Langhas communities are Muslim, in Rajasthan many Manganiar songs are in praise of Hindu deities and celebrate Hindu festivals such as Diwali and Holi where the performers traditionally invoke the Hindu God Krishna and seek his blessing before beginning their recital. \n\nIn 1978, Jodhpur-based musician Komal Kothari provided the Manganiars with institutional support, allowing them to sing outside the state for the first time. Currently, several Manganiar groups tour internationally.\n\nIn present-day Jaisalmer and surrounding regions in Rajasthan, the term Manganiar, or Manganiyar, meaning 'beggar', is used as a debasing and derogatory title for folk musicians that are among the lowest castes in Rajasthan. These communities of folk musicians refer to themselves as Merasi, which translates as 'musicians' or 'keepers of the stories' and had been titled this by patrons, including wealthy and powerful Rajput patrons predating Komal Kothari's usage of Manganiar. Considered ‘untouchable’, denied access to education, healthcare, and political representation, most live in poverty yet aspire to improve their situation. Despite on-going caste-prejudice, they persist in their roles as oral genealogists, storytellers, and musicians. To reclaim their identity as storytellers, the Merasi of Jaisalmer have shed the derogatory caste label 'Manganiyar' and proudly embraced the name 'Merasi', meaning musicians and is also a poignant symbol of self-determination. New York City-based non-profit organization Folk Arts Rajasthan (FAR), partnered with Jaisalmer-based Lok Kala Sagar Sansthan (LKSS), currently seeks to empower the Merasi community through education, community development, and by nurturing and preserving cultural identity.\n\nKamaicha\nThe 17-string khamaycha is a bowed instrument. Made of mango wood, its rounded resonator is covered with goat skin. Three of its strings are goat intestine while the other 14 strings are steel. \n\nKhartaal\nThe khartaal is a kind of castanet made of teak. Its name is derived from \"Khar\", meaning hand, and \"Taal\", meaning rhythm.\n\nDholak\nThe dholak is a North Indian, Pakistani and Nepalese hand drum similar in timbre to a bongo. A dholak may have traditional lacing or turnbuckle tuning. The dholak has a simple membrane and a handle on the right hand side. The left hand membrane has a special coating on the inner surface. This coating is a mixture of tar, clay and sand (dholak masala) which lowers the pitch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46206433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46206433", "title": "Miisiirii language", "text": "Miisiirii language\n\nMiisiirii is a language of western Sudan, spoken by the Messiria of Jebel Mun (Jebel Moon) in Darfur. It belongs to the Taman language family. It is often considered a dialect of Tama, though it is not particularly close.\n"}
{"id": "23392266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23392266", "title": "Márkomeannu", "text": "Márkomeannu\n\nMárkomeannu is a Sami cultural and music festival held near the border of the municipalities of Skånland in Troms and Evenes in Nordland in northern Norway. The idea behind Márkomeannu is to celebrate the culture and traditions of the Sámi villages. Until 2006, the festival was organized by the youth association Stuornjárgga Sámenuorak, but starting in 2007 it has been organized by its own association, Márkomeannu Searvi.\n\nMárkomeannu consists of concerts, exhibitions, seminars and theater. The festival had 2,800 attendees in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "58097220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58097220", "title": "NSE co-location scam", "text": "NSE co-location scam\n\nThe NSE co-location scam relates to the market manipulation at the National Stock Exchange of India, India's leading stock exchange. Allegedly select players obtained market price information ahead of the rest of the market, enabling them to front run the rest of the market, possibly breaching the NSE’s purpose of demutualisation exchange governance and its robust transparency-based mechanism. The alleged connivance of insiders by rigging NSE’s algo-trading and use of co-location servers ensured substantial profits to a set of brokers. This multi-dollar, widespread market fraud came to light when markets' regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), received the first anonymous complaint through a whistle-blower's letter in January 2015. The whistle-blower alleged that trading members were able to capitalise on advance knowledge by colluding with some exchange officials. The overall default amount through NSE’s high-frequency trading (HFT) is estimated to be 50,000 crores over five years.\n\nThe NSE co-location case is under investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and the Income-tax Department (I-T department) who are probing the involvement of NSE and SEBI officials, as well as NSE's former and current executives and brokerages.\n\nIn January 2010, the NSE began offering a co-location facility to members. Members could place their servers in the Exchange's premises in return for a fee. This allowed them faster access to the buy and sell orders being disseminated by the exchange’s trading engine. The term 'co-location' means 'a setup wherein the broker’s computer is located in the same area as the stock exchange’s server. This gives a 10:1 (typically) speed advantage for the broker'. In addition, High-frequency trading (HFT) or algorithmic trading refers to the use of electronic systems, which can potentially execute thousands of orders on the stock exchange in less than a second. Also, retail investors monitoring prices are subject to a delay as compared to the tick-by-tick data broadcast a user receives in a co-location facility. Unusually, the SEBI did not put out a discussion paper to collect market feedback before giving permission to proceed with the facility. There are no public records on HFT executed on the NSE. It is mentioned in passing in the NSE’s 2009-10 annual report statement: \"In keeping with global trends, the exchange has provided members a co-location facility for low latency high frequency trading. The Co-location data center is an international standard, state of the art, highly robust, resilient and secure infrastructure.\"\n\nThe whistle-blower’s letter that was addressed to SEBI and copied to the leading financial magazine, \"Moneylife\". clearly stated that:when the co-location was started by NSE it took some time for the more enterprising to figure out what was happening in the system. By the end of the year, smart people had all figured out the way to game the system lay in being the first one to connect to the server and preferably the server, which was fastest. The co-location case was initiated when certain members associated with HFT allegedly teamed up and worked in coalition for about four years, i.e. 2010- 2014 overriding rules and regulations set in place by SEBI, the market regulator. According to an unnamed individual familiar with SEBI's investigation: \"Access to co-location facilities and HFT trading gave the select brokers differential advantage such as display of market data, viewing order book prior to order execution.\"\n\n\"The Economic Times\" first reported that on 22 May 2017, SEBI issued show cause notices to the exchange and fourteen individuals, including former managing directors Chitra Ramakrishna and Ravi Narain. Notices have been sent to Ravi Narain, vice-chairman of NSE, who was serving as chief executive officer (CEO) and managing director (MD) at the exchange during the period when the alleged violations took place. Other officials include Ravi Varanasi, who was the chief of NSE’s business development vertical and was heading the surveillance department of the exchange during this period, and Suprabhat Lala, chief of regulation and head of the trading division during 2010-13. Among other officials who received show cause notices were former technology heads — Ravi Apte, and Umesh Jain, and former chief operating officer Subramanian Anand. NSE vice-chairman Ravi Narain had put in his papers on 2 June 2017, amid regulators intensifying their probe into the alleged lapses in high frequency trading. Chitra Ramakrishna, MD and CEO resigned from the exchange in December 2016. The media reported that Chitra’s resignation the result of two governance-related issues at NSE. One was the loss of confidence in the NSE top management due to the colocation controversy. The second was the controversy surrounding a high-ranking official at NSE, Anand Subramanian, who was re-designated on 1 April 2015 as Group Operating Officer and Advisor to the MD. This appointment happened after communication from the NSE, MD and the CEO's office bypassing the Human Resources department. Complaints regarding this appointment, and Subramanian’s high salary, reached the board prompting it to examine the appointment process. This led to Subramanian leaving the exchange in October 2016.Both Mr. Narain and Ms. Ramakrishna were part of the NSE’s founding team, having joined the bourse in 1994.\n\nAfter receiving show cause notices from SEBI, 12 out of 14 high profile current and former top executives of NSE including Ravi Narain and Chitra Ramakrishna filed an application with SEBI to settle the co-location issue under consent mechanism in July 2017. The consent process is an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, allows an alleged wrongdoer to settle a pending issue by accepting a penal action without admitting or denying the guilt. During this period, in July 2017, Vikram Limaye took charge as MD and CEO of the NSE. He gave assurances that he would approach SEBI for a settlement of the co-location issue and would find the underlying cause of this issue. However, a consent application filed by the exchange was later returned in March 2018 after the CBI investigation gathered momentum. \n\nDuring the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) rule from 2004 to 2014, P. Chidambaram was the finance minister for almost seven years and K.P. Krishnan had been the longest-serving joint secretary and additional secretary for the capital market. Markets are shocked that P. Chidambaram chose favourable bureaucrats like C B Bhave and key persons like Chitra Ramakrishna, Ravi Narain, Ashok Chawla and Ramesh Abhishek to head market regulators SEBI, NSE and FMC respectively. Ravi Narain and Chitra Ramakrishna’s proximity to K.P. Krishnan and P. Chidambaram is said to be the reason for their appointments. It was during this period, the NSE continued operations such as HFT for many years, \"enabling brokers to help their clients especially the Foreign International Investors (FII) to make piles of illegal cash\". SEBI ignored complaints from the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the FT Group’s MCX-SX. It failed to ask the NSE to discontinue the HFT system for years. Outside the government, P. Chidambaram also has confidants of eminence like Ajay Narottam Shah, Vijay Kelkar, Suprabhat Lala and the other heads of key domestic financial institutions. Prior to 2010, the then-chairman of SEBI, C.B. Bhave sent some officials from SEBI to the United States for the training on co-location facilities. There they met Ajay Shah to discuss the practice. After this, NSE started providing a co-location facility in 2010 without a formal application or regulation under the name of Direct Market Access (DMA). According to the whistle-blower, \"the NSE’s top brass, in connivance with some bureaucrats in the then Finance Ministry and powerful ministers in the UPA government manipulated and milked the system\".\n\nThe CBI booked Ajay Shah, professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP) and former consultant in the finance ministry in co-location scandal. As CBI details it, Ajay Shah lobbied for the NSE because of his clout in the Finance Ministry and had been instrumental in the exploitation of the NSE TBT (Tick-By-Tick) architecture. The CBI’s probe revealed that Ajay Shah collected NSE trade data in 2005-06 under the guise of doing research, while he was employed with Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). He developed algo software named 'Chanakya'. This software was then sold to selected brokers like OPG securities on a profit-sharing basis through a firm called Infotech Financials. Sunita Thomas, one of the directors of Infotech, is Ajay Shah's sister-in-law and the wife of the NSE’s then-trading head Suprabhat Lala. After the CBI named Ajay Shah in the co-location scandal in July 2018, SEBI also served show cause notice on him for breaching the data sharing agreement with the NSE. The whistle-blower has alleged that Ajay Shah has also benefited by influencing FIIs and Participatory (PN) Note activities on NSE, and he had profit-sharing contracts with OPG Securities, Alpha Grep and Omnesys. Even on the floor of parliament, 10th August 2018, Pon Radhakrishnan, the minister of state for finance said in response to a question by Dr. Kirit Somaiya that: \"Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) examination, inter alia, observed that the professor had employed a device/ scheme/ artifice, wherein the confidential and sensitive data provided by NSE was misused in fraudulent manner, which resulted in compromising the integrity of the securities market.\" Even when Income-Tax authorities raided Ajay Shah’s premises in November 2017, it is alleged that I-T secured some very confidential documents and they also found the budget representations on his computer well before the actual release of budget. Ajay Shah is known to be close to P Chidambaram and was extremely close to K P Krishnan. It is believed that the Finance Ministry was giving a minimum of Rs 1 crore every year to National Institute of Public Finance and Policy for Ajay Shah’s group. In fact, designing the Nifty-50 for the NSE had made Ajay Shah a popular figure in the Finance Ministry. Ajay Shah and his wife Susan Thomas were paid a substantial royalty every year from the turnover of Nifty trading, which is 80% of the total turnover of the NSE. However, it is unprecedented to give such an annual royalty from research and it is claimed to be a violation of standard industry norm where a one-time payment is given to researchers of any of the market indices.\n\nThe brokers-NSE nexus came to the forefront with the co-location scandal. The broker entity to receive maximum benefit in the scandal was OPG Securities, which was provided multiple login IPs and allowed access from the secondary servers. Due to favourable access, OPG Securities and other entities benefited instead of other brokers and their clients. Other firms on the list of 22 brokers who repeatedly logged in early on the NSE servers include: Alpha Grep, SMC Global, Barclays Securities, Kredent, Pace, Religare Securities, NYCE, Motilal Oswal, Kotak Securities, DE Shaw, Crimson, Advent, Mansukh Stock Brokers, JM Global, AB Financial, Indus Broking and Quant Broking. The CBI investigation revealed that 90% of the time OPG securities, in collusion with unknown officials of the NSE, was first to access the NSE servers. SEBI’s TAC report also revealed that OPG securities was given access using the co-location facility during 2010-2014 that enabled it to log in to the NSE server before any other entity and receive data before any other broker in the market. SEBI has alleged in its show-cause notice that the firm has earned close to ₹ 25 crore in profit.\n\nAccording to the whistle-blower, OPG Securities alone had trades worth over Rs. 6,000 crore on the NSE using co-location. In addition, the exchange's \"order book\" was exported to FIIs and FPIs, helping them make illegal gains in the stock market. While OPG Securities used the base technology, Omnesys Technologies provided the trading software. Whistle-blower Ken Fong's letter points to Bangalore-based, front-end technology provider Omnesys, a company that sold trading software to NSE's members and is said to have benefited, legitimately, from its ability to connect ahead of others to the exchange's servers. The whistle-blower states Omnesys was so sure of the early bird strategy that it had profit-sharing arrangements with clients. Omnesys gave the technology to NSE members on a profit-sharing basis and the NSE’s wholly owned subsidiary secured 26 per cent stake in Omnesys at a huge discount. Chitra Ramakrishna, NSE's then-deputy managing director, was sitting on the board of Omnesys technologies according to documents from the registrar of companies. As the whistle-blower mentioned in his first letter dated, 14th January 2015, Omnesys was the market leader with its DMA product being highly popular on the institutional desk. This is important since the NSE was the second largest shareholder of Omnesys and worked closely with them for several years.\n\nIn November 2015, the whistle-blower’s letter referred to SEBI’s technical advisory committee (TAC) report that concluded in March 2016, that NSE systems were prone to 'manipulation' and thus recommended an investigation. This was when SEBI directed the new NSE board to conduct a forensic audit of its systems and deposit revenue from co-location trading in an escrow account. This was a blow to NSE’s plans of going public as the co-location server facility stream accounted for nearly 35–40 per cent of the NSE’s core revenues. The NSE added public interest directors to its board. They include: Ashok Chawla, former finance secretary; Naved Masood, former secretary in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs; TV Mohandas Pai, chairman of Manipal Global Education Services; Dinesh Kanabar, former deputy CEO of KPMG in India, and Dharmishta Raval, former SEBI executive director. The board then appointed Deloitte to conduct a forensic inquiry. The Deloitte report, submitted to SEBI on 23 December 2016, found that the exchange's tick-by-tick (TBT) system was prone to manipulation and restated the findings by the SEBI panel that some stock brokers obtained preferential access to servers. The NSE also admitted this in its draft prospectus. In a written reply, Minister of State for Finance, Arjun Meghwal told the Lok Sabha in 2016: \"The architecture of NSE with respect to dissemination of tick-by-tick through transmission control protocol (TCP) or internet protocol (IP) was prone to manipulation or market abuse. And this system has been discontinued by NSE from 3 December 2016.\" SEBI’s action so far has been to nudge the NSE into conducting investigations by two big global consulting firms, Deloitte and Ernst & Young, despite the fact that both had a potential conflict of interest, having handled major projects or consulting assignments for the bourse. Ravi Narain, as MD and CEO of the NSE, was also the head of the sub-committee which chose Deloitte for the forensic audit of NSE, despite being fully aware that Deloitte was working on a large project for NSE’s disaster recovery centre (DRC). This was a clear case of conflict of interest. In July 2018, SEBI issued a second show cause notice to the NSE, many of its former and existing executives, and senior officials alleged to have violated the SEBI Act, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices and broker regulations. The notice comes even as the CBI has booked brokers and unidentified officials at the NSE and SEBI for preferential access through the co-location service. In August 2018, the Madras High Court issued notice to SEBI seeking appropriate action against NSE employees for the alleged fraud in co-location services and directed SEBI to file its response.However, SEBI will hear this case in the mid of December, 2018.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "17549608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17549608", "title": "Nasir I of Kalat", "text": "Nasir I of Kalat\n\nMir Noori Naseer Khan Brahui was the Khan (head of state) of the princely state of Kalat in what is now the Balochistan province of Pakistan during the eighteenth century.\n\nMir Muhammad Nasir Khan I (also known as \"Mir Noori Nasir Khan\") was probably the most powerful of the Khans of Kalat who ruled for 45 years from 1749 to 1794. After an initial unsuccessful revolt against Ahmad Shah Durrani in 1758 he later became his most powerful ally and his Baloch Army fought alongside the Afghans of Abdali against the Persians, the Marathas and the Sikhs. The boundaries of the Khanate of Kalat under Nasir Khan I extended far beyond those of modern Balochistan and included the town of Karachi.\n"}
{"id": "5963024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5963024", "title": "Nouvelles Saisons", "text": "Nouvelles Saisons\n\nNouvelles Saisons was a politically oriented society in France that existed during the French Second Republic.\n"}
{"id": "18532729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18532729", "title": "Page numbering", "text": "Page numbering\n\nPage numbering is the process of applying a sequence of numbers (or letters, or roman numerals) to the pages of a book or other document. The number itself, which may appear in various places on the page, can be referred to as a page number or as a folio. Like other numbering schemes such as chapter numbering, page numbers allow the citation of a particular page of the numbered document and facilitates to the reader to find specific parts of the document and to know the size of the complete text (by checking the number of the last page).\n\nEven numbers usually appear on verso pages, while odd numbers appear on recto pages. In the printing industry, in cases where odd numbers appear on verso pages and even numbers on recto pages, this is referred to as \"non-traditional folios\" (in the past, it had been referred to as \"Chinese folios\", however this term has fallen out of favor in recent years).\n\nIn books, some pages, known as \"blind folios\", of the front matter and back matter are numbered, but the numbers are not always printed on the pages. Publishers are not consistent about how they number the pages of their books. Some publishers stick with the default numbering of the tool they are using, which is typically to number the first page of the front matter as one and all pages after that in a consecutive order. When publishers wish to distinguish between the front matter and the story, the initial title pages are not numbered, the front matter is numbered using lower-case Roman numerals (i, ii, iii, etc.) and the first page of the story or main content begins with one. The title page of the story is not numbered, but if a story is broken into multiple parts (Part I, Part II, etc.), the title page for the section may be included in the numbering but not shown on the page. The first page of Chapter One would then be numbered as page three rather than page one as would be the normal case.\n\nThe sixteenth edition of the \"Chicago Manual of Style\" calls for the beginning of the text to begin with the Arabic number 1, while the front matter that precedes it is to be numbered with lower-case Roman numerals. If the front matter is extensive and a second half-title page is included, it is to be numbered as page one and its verso as page two. If a part title is included, it is to be included in the same numbering as the text. Page numbers do not appear on part titles. Most citation systems also call for the identification of the page number from which a quote or point is drawn. For example, such usage is specified in their citation formats of both the \"Chicago Manual of Style\", and the \"Bluebook\".\n\nE-books and other electronic documents published in a non-reflowable format such as PDF are normally paginated and numbered in the same way as their printed counterparts.\n\nWhile reading devices for reflowable documents such as EPUB e-books may display page numbers, these numbers change from device to device depending on factors such as the size of the display and the selected font size. This makes them unsuitable for citation purposes. To remedy this problem, Amazon Kindle e-books contain what are called \"location numbers\", that is, numbers in the margin of the electronic text that indicate where the corresponding page begins in the printed version of the book.\n\nIn codicology, each physical sheet (\"folium\", abbreviated \"fol.\" or \"f.\") of a manuscript is numbered, and the sides are referred to as \"folium rectum\" and \"folium versum\", abbreviated as \"r\" and \"v\" respectively. This results in designations like \"5r\" (the front side of the fifth sheet), or \"8v\" (the back side of the eighth sheet).\n\n"}
{"id": "53035014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53035014", "title": "Ramiro Martinez Jr.", "text": "Ramiro Martinez Jr.\n\nRamiro Martinez Jr. (born 1962) is an American criminologist. He is a professor at Northeastern University, in both the School of Criminology and Criminal Justice and the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. He is also the chair of the American Sociological Association's Section on Crime, Law, and Deviance. He was born in San Antonio, Texas, and taught at Florida International University before joining Northeastern. In 2006, while on sabbatical from Florida International University, he became a visiting scholar at the University of Houston's Center for Mexican American Studies. His research focuses on variations in crime across ecological areas, and across racial and immigrant groups. This research includes multiple studies showing that immigration from Mexico to the United States is associated with lower crime rates.\n"}
{"id": "43221165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43221165", "title": "Rhön Club", "text": "Rhön Club\n\nThe Rhön Club () is an inter-state local history and rambling club in Bavaria, Hesse and Thuringia, with around 25,000 members in 88 branches and is one of the larger German rambling clubs in the Association of German Alpine and Rambling Clubs (\"Verband Deutscher Gebirgs- und Wandervereine\").\n\nThe club was founded on 6 August 1876 in Gersfeld with the aim of opening up the Rhön Mountains as a hiking and rambling area. Its aim today is the conservation of the valuable natural and cultural countryside of the Rhön from a number of ecological viewpoints, especially:\n\n"}
{"id": "2541825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2541825", "title": "Russophilia", "text": "Russophilia\n\nRussophilia (literally love of Russia or Russians) is individual or collective admiration and fond of Russia, Russian history and Russian culture, especially someone who is sympathetic to the political system and customs of the former Soviet Union or who exhibits Russian nationalism in spite of not even being either an ethnic Russian or a Russian citizen. The opposite of Russophilia is Russophobia.\n\nRussophilia in other European countries may be based on stereotypes produced by mass culture (\"traditional Russian hospitality\", \"Russian tenderness\" etc.), as well as on in-depth study of Russian mentality, as expressed, e.g., by American author Robert Alexander: \"I love Russians for their dramatic, emotional nature. They're not afraid to love, not afraid to get hurt, not afraid to exaggerate or act impulsively.\"\n\nIn October 2004, the International Gallup Organization announced the results of its poll, according to which approximately 20% of the residents of Western Europe viewed Russia positively, with the most positive view coming from Iceland, Germany, Greece, and Britain. The percentage of respondents expressing a positive attitude towards Russia was 9% in Finland, Turkey, and Japan, 38% in Lithuania, 36% in Latvia, and 34% in Estonia. Estonia and especially Latvia have a large number of ethnic Russians, which likely affected the result.\n\nRussia is hugely popular in Serbia, and Serbs have always traditionally seen Russia as a close ally due to shared Slavic culture and Orthodox faith. In Serbia and Montenegro, whose nations are both predominately Eastern Orthodox, the faith expressed by a vast majority of Russians, there was no Soviet influence and Russians were always seen as friendly brotherly people. About 83% of Serbs see Russia as their first ally on the international scene. In both Serbia and Montenegro, there are neighbourhoods, streets, buildings and statues named after something Russian. In Serbia there is the Russian Centre of Science and Culture and Hotel Moskva.\n\nMontenegro is also an Eastern Orthodox and Slavic country. There is the Moscow Bridge in Podgorica, and a statue of Russian singer and actor Vladimir Vysotsky next to the bridge.\n\nFollowing Ukrainian independence in 1991 Ukrainians, mostly in the east and south of the country, voted to a see a more Russophile attitude of the government, ranging from closer economic partnership to full national union. Since the 2014 Russian military intervention in Ukraine the overall attitude of Ukrainians towards Russia and Russians has become much more negative.\n\nRussophilia (Moscophilia, Ukrainian: москвофільство, \"moskvofil’stvo\") was a linguistic, literary and socio-political movement in the Western Ukrainian territories of Galicia, Transcarpathia, and Bukovyna in the 18th - 20th centuries. Proponents of this movement believed in linguistic, cultural, social union with Russian people and later in state union with Russia. Among the causes for the emergence of this phenomenon were the absence of Ukrainian statehood, centuries of foreign oppression, fragmented Ukrainian territories and dispersed population, as well as the defection of national elite to neighbouring cultures and a weak sense of national identity.\n\nThe first instances of Russophilia in Transcarpathia date back as far as late 18th early 19th centuries when several famous Russians with ties to the government and the court of the tsar settled there. Such famous scientists and social activists as I. Orlai, M. Baludiansky, P. Lodiy and others lived in Transcarpathia and maintained close ties with the country of their birth and thereby promoted interest towards Russia, especially towards its cultural life, its language and literature.\n\nWhen Galicia and Bukovyna were incorporated into the Habsburg Empire in 1772 the Austrian government treated the Ukrainian population of these territories with suspicion as it was afraid it was susceptible to Russian influence due to the closeness of Ukrainian and Russian languages and cultures. This mistrust of the authorities was cultivated by influential Polish politicians and activists in an effort to forestall the growth of national consciousness on territories where Poles traditionally had influence. Any attempt at cultural revival was met with hostility from the Austrian government which regarded them as an influence from Moscow. In spite of this atmosphere of mistrust and suspicion the first educational establishment \"The Fellowship of Priests\" was founded in Przemyśl. Metropolitan M. Levytsky began to introduce the Ruthenian language in elementary schools, developed grammar books, insisted on instruction in University in Ruthenian and founded \"Ruska Troyka\" Society. The Lemko-Rusyn Republic, after World War I, attempted to join Lemko territories to Russia, and later to similar areas of the newly formed Czechoslovakia.\n\n\n\nHistoric\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2454228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2454228", "title": "Sara people", "text": "Sara people\n\nThe Sara people are Nilotes originating from the Upper Nile. They predominantly reside in southern Chad, the northwestern areas of the Central African Republic, and the southern border of North Sudan. They speak the Sara languages, a dialect or sub-group of the Nilo-Saharan family. They are also the largest ethnic group in Chad.\n\nSara oral histories add further details about the people. In summary, the Sara are mostly animists (veneration of nature), with a social order made up of several patrilineal clans formerly united into a single polity with a national language, national identity, and national religion. Many Sara people have retained their ethnic religion, but some have converted to Christianity and Islam.\n\nThe Sara (Kameeni) are the largest ethnic group in the Republic of Chad, they're concentrated in the Moyen-Chari, the Logone Oriental, the Logone Occidental, and parts of the Tandjile regions. They're originally from the Nile valley and migrated towards what is now Chad during the sixteenth century AD, seeking refuge in the south against northern Muslim slave raiders. After their arrival, they continued to be the target of violent raids by northern Fulani and Arab people.\nThe local Muslim groups of what is now Chad, referred to the Sara as \"Kirdi\", with the term \"Kirdi\" denoting a non-Muslim person. The Muslim raiders of what is now Chad were autonomously called \"Bagirmi\", and this geo-political conflict between the \"Kirdi\" and the \"Bagirmi\" continued through the nineteenth century.\n\nThe French colonial empire entered the ongoing hostilities in the early twentieth century, and the Sara people became a part of the French Equatorial Africa, more specifically as part of the \"1e Tchad utile\". The Sara society was transformed by this development, both in terms of culture such as French-based education and training, but also socio-economically because of forced labor and conscription to serve the French military during the World Wars. At the time of independence from France in 1960, the southerners of Chad were more assimilated into French institutions than the northerners. This led to their political dominance of the country after 1960. They were also a part of the civil war with populations in north and central Chad, each population aligning with a different ideology.\n\nThe Sara people make up ten per cent of the population of the Central African Republic, making it the fourth largest ethnic group in the country. They live in the northwest part of CAR.\n\nThe Sara people natively speak the Sara languages. This dialect cluster belongs to the Nilo-Saharan family.\n\nAnalysis of classic genetic markers and DNA polymorphisms by Excoffier et al. (1987) found that the Sara are most closely related to the Kunama people of Eritrea. Both populations speak languages from the Nilo-Saharan family. They are also similar to West African populations, but biologically distinct from the surrounding Cushitic and Ethiopian Semitic Afro-Asiatic-speaking groups.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153144", "title": "Si La people", "text": "Si La people\n\nThe Si La (also Sila or Syla) are an ethnic group of about 1,800 people living in northern Laos and another 600 living in Lai Châu Province, Northwest region, Vietnam.\n\nThe Si La people speak a Tibeto-Burman language closely related to Hani (Edmondson 2002). Their primary occupation is the cultivation of cereals, augmented by hunting and foraging. One of the most distinctive Si La customs is tooth painting: men traditionally painted their teeth red, while women painted theirs black. The custom is increasingly uncommon among the younger generation.\n"}
{"id": "31362976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31362976", "title": "Social conditions in Honduras", "text": "Social conditions in Honduras\n\nHonduras has experienced a long history of changing social conditions, beginning with the bands of foragers in ancient times, through the development of complex societies in the Pacific coast side of the isthmus, and evolving through the innovations introduced by the Spanish in the colonial period. \n\nPost colonial Honduras continued many of the colonial social structures and institutions, with major additions in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century as major foreign companies pioneered new modes of producing export products and systems of controlling labor. More recent trends in industrialization have also had important effects.\n\nHonduras faces enormous challenges in the areas of crime and human rights and improving overall economic and living conditions in one of the hemisphere’s poorest countries. The United States has a close relationship with Honduras, characterized by significant foreign assistance, an important trade partnership, a military presence in the country, and cooperation on a range of transnational issues. \n\nA U.S.-Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) with five Central American countries was signed on May 28, 2004, and a combined U.S.-Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) was signed on August 5, 2004. The Honduran Congress approved the agreement on March 3, 2005, by a vote of 124-4. The Bush Administration views DR-CAFTA as a means of solidifying democracy in Honduras and promoting safeguards for environmental protection and labor rights in the country. \n\nCritics fear that a CAFTA without strong environmental and labor provisions would do nothing to spur reforms in the country. For additional information, see CRS Report RL31870, The Dominican Republic.-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement (DRCAFTA); and CRS Report RL32322, Central America and the Dominican Republic in the Context of the Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) with the United States.\n\nThe indigenous people of Honduras developed stratified societies in some regions very early, and much of the earliest period conditions were shaped by its division into unequally represented social groups, in which some economic exploitation took place. Documentation, limited as it was from Maya sites confirms this inequality which is also observed archaeologically.\n\nEarly Spanish reports likewise speak of inequities in the society, and the Spanish tended to exacerbate these. The encomienda system while it initially drew heavily on the older systems of taxation and labor employment used by indigenous polities, added new elements. The mining economy, at first drawing on laborers from the encomiendas, increasing used slave labor in the late sixteenth century, and then as the mines were depleted, also turned back to wage labor.\n\nIn the last years of the nineteenth century, Honduran governments sought to encourage economic growth by creating incentives for foreign concerns to operate in the country. The involvement of such companies as United Fruit, Standard Fruit and others in the northern sections of the country led to concentration of landholdings, the emergence of a class of North American managers living in separate quarters on estates, and the importation of migrant workers from the English-Speaking Caribbean and elsewhere in Central America altered the pattern of small holding farming that had prevailed in the region before. Many of the new workers were housed in barracks, frequently came without families and were subject to strict discipline.\n\nBeginning in the late 1970s, new foreign concerns began the introduction of maquiladoras, larger more modern factories to produce textiles and other goods. They were particularly interested in using the labor of young females, to the point that in much of the industry female workers outnumber male by as much as two-to-one. This imbalance in employment has led increasingly to problems with the often unemployed males, and led to a concomitant growth of gangs and violence. Substance abuse, at first primarily alcohol, and later hard drugs (especially as the international drug trade has made use of Honduras for the transit of drugs) have created their own problems.\n"}
{"id": "42765588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42765588", "title": "The Hampton Institute", "text": "The Hampton Institute\n\nThe Hampton Institute (HI) is an American \"working-class think tank\" that was founded in 2013. In contrast to traditional think tanks, the HI is a virtual organization that does not have a physical location and does not seek to provide specific policy analysis for political parties. For organizational purposes, its official location is in Albany, New York with a main address located in Clifton Park, New York, a suburb of Albany. Current chairpersons are located throughout the United States (including New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Ohio, Arkansas, Colorado, Oregon, Hawaii, and California), as well as Canada (Montreal) and Australia.\n\nThe HI was founded by Colin Jenkins, a libertarian socialist, with the purpose of giving a platform to everyday, working-class people to theorize, comment, analyze and discuss matters that exist outside the confines of their daily lives, yet greatly impact them on a daily basis. The organization is named after former Black Panther Fred Hampton and also cites inspiration from Italian Marxist theorist Antonio Gramsci and educator and philosopher Paulo Freire. In order to remain consistent with their working-class billing, the HI claims to seek organic intellectuals as opposed to traditional intellectuals and scholars. In an interview from 2013, Jenkins even went as far as saying that \"credentials are products of privilege\" and \"essentially mean nothing\". Despite this, some members of the Hampton Team, as well as some contributors, possess PhDs.\n\nThe organization consists of sixteen departments, each with corresponding chairpersons, as well as a sub-department listed under \"Current Projects\" which includes a Director of Projects, Actions, and Activism. The sixteen departments are: Criminal Justice, Ecology & Sustainability, Education, Geopolitics, Indigenous Rights, Labor Issues, LGBTQ Rights, Race & Ethnicity, Resistance Art, Social Economics, Social Movement Studies, Society & Culture, Spirituality & Religion, Urban Issues, and Women's Issues.\n\nSome of the current team, including Jason Williams, Andrew Gavin Marshall, Derek Ide, Cherise Charleswell, Sean Posey, Devon Douglas-Bowers, Jeriah Bowser, and Eyad Alkurabi are founding members. The HI operates a publishing wing (Hampton Institute Press), a blog (The HI blog), and a bi-monthly podcast (A Different Lens) which is run by the Politics & Government department chairperson, Devon Douglas-Bowers. The organization also maintains a presence on social media, including Facebook (The Hampton Institute) and Twitter (@HamptonThink).\n\nIts operational structure is run as a collective, cooperative, and Non-hierarchical Organization. From its founding in 2013 until August 2018, the HI has operated on an all-volunteer basis. Jenkins commented on the organization's approach:\nIn terms of approach, the HI attempts to begin to fill the historical void of which Gramsci once termed, \"Organic Intellectualism\" – the collective politicization and critical analysis of and from the working class itself. The HI is indifferent to traditional structures dominated by the pedigreed and privileged intelligentsia. Our members are passionate and probing members of the common... [we believe] intelligent analysis exists throughout the socioeconomic spectrum, and the only thing that separates those who own a public voice and those who do not is varying degrees of privilege. \"Credentials\" essentially mean nothing because they are typically nothing more than products of privilege; and for that reason alone, perspectives and analyses coming from those credentials/privilege are often presented in a way that opposes the public-at-large (the working class). The HI seeks to challenge this embedded, highly-controlled and top-down mode of inquiry by offering an alternative, organic and bottom-up viewpoint.\"\n\n\nThe organization does not claim an official political or ideological orientation other than \"working class.\" Some of the members - including Marshall, Jenkins and Bowser - have openly identified with anarchist philosophy. Jenkins has also cited Marxism as a strong influence, and is a member of the Industrial Workers of the World, an international labor union that prescribes to \"revolutionary industrial unionism,\" with ties to both socialist and anarchist labor movements. Derek Ide identifies as a socialist, stating, \"I am a socialist, and I'm deeply rooted in that intellectual and political tradition broadly speaking. However, I do not identify with any of the particular subsets of Marxist schools of thought, but my view of history and the world is largely materialist.\" Sean Posey describes himself as anti-war and \"situated on the Left, politically.\" Regarding his political orientation, Bowser wrote, \"I am not a huge fan of labels, as they tend to isolate and exclude rather than invite and include, but the ideological worlds I tend to find myself in most often include Deep Ecology, Anarcho-primitivism, Anarcho-communism, Taoism, Pantheism, Anti-psychiatry, and Christian Agnosticism.\" Derek R. Ford states that he is a Communist, which, he says, \"means being... a dialectical-materialist and a member of the Party.\n\nFormer chair, Jonathan Mathias Lassiter, explained, \"My work is inherently political as it focuses on principles and opinions. However, I am not aligned with any political party nor am I am against any particular political party. I am not interested in political parties or politics in the common sense of the word but am more concerned with pursuing love and justice for the whole of humanity with a specific focus on marginalized populations.\" Former chair, Syard Evans, has said, \"Despite my disgust for politics and traditional political systems, working in the non-profit human services realm for the past 15 years requires that I am an active advocate for individuals I support in every way possible, including politically.\" Regarding the political system in the United States, Jenkins said, \"I view both parties (Democrats and Republicans) as \"two wings of the same (corporate) business party.\" Both represent moneyed interests, and not the interests of the large majority.\"\n\nThe organization operates a small publishing wing for the purpose of producing books in both print and digital form. Their first title, \"Egypt's Past and Potential: Nationalism, Neoliberalism, and Revolution\", was written by Social Movement Studies chairperson Derek Ide. The book was published in January of 2014. The synopsis of the book reads:\n\n\"Egypt's Past and Potential\" grapples with the complex political, economic, and social dynamics that led to Egypt's historic revolution of 2011. Utilizing a critical framework, author Derek Ide analyzes the country's development ranging from Nasser-era nationalism to the decades of neoliberal \"reform\" in order to situate the revolutionary uprising of 2011 in its appropriate historical context. The book also draws out the unique and often overlooked working class tradition in Egypt which both predated the January 25th revolution and, contrary to the common sense of many Western commentators, played a significant role in it. This timely book delivers a cogent analysis as events in Egypt continue to unfold, and provides a historical backdrop to help readers understand the economic pressures, dialectical conflicts, and social movements that intersect to shape Egyptian history.\nIn December 2014, Hampton's Press published their first annual reader duly titled, \"The 2015 Hampton Reader\". It is a collection of essays from the organization's first year in existence, and includes at least four exclusive essays:\n\nA third title, \"Elements of Resistance: Violence, Nonviolence, and the State\", by Jeriah Bowser, was published in February 2015. The synopsis of the book reads:\nOur world is full of ideas about the way that humans should live. Some of these ideas create a more beautiful and equal world that we all want to live in, while other ideas create violence, hatred, inequality, and suffering. Some of us care an awful lot about beautiful ideas; we care enough to fight for them and spend our lives working towards them, and we care enough to resist. Resistance takes many forms, however, and there are many ideas about the most effective and correct ways to resist.\n\n\"Elements of Resistance\" attempts to transcend the false binary of nonviolent and violent resistance, and looks at the heart and soul of what it means to resist, why we resist, and what some different methods of effective resistance might look like. Drawing from recent work by social theorists and activists such as Derrick Jensen, Ward Churchill, Shane Claiborne, Johann Galtung, and Peter Gelderloos, as well as the work of Frantz Fanon, Henry Thoreau, Martin Luther King, Jr., Nelson Mandela, and Mohandas Gandhi, this book is an exploration into the history, theory, and necessity of resistance to oppression.\n\n\"Elements of Resistance\" received positive reviews from author and radical environmentalist, Derrick Jensen, as well as from anarchist and primitivist philosopher, John Zerzan. Jensen called the book \"an important contribution to a necessary conversation,\" while Zerzan noted that it goes beyond \"just a survey of thinking on the perennial violence/non-violence debate\" to form \"a very strong contribution.\"\n\nIn December 2015, Hampton's Press published their second annual reader, \"The 2016 Hampton Reader\". It is a collection of sixty-one essays from the organization's second year in existence, and includes at least four exclusive essays:\n\nThe HI operates a podcast called \"A Different Lens\" for the purpose of conducting and broadcasting audio interviews with members and notable others. The podcast was initiated and is run by Politics & Government chairperson, Devon Douglas-Bowers, who also conducts the interviews. The most notable guests to date have been former Black Panther and black anarchist Lorenzo Kom'boa Ervin; political cartoonist, editorialist and activist Stephanie McMillan; geopolitical analyst Prof. Mahdi Darius Nazemroaya; independent journalist Rania Khalek; noted co-founder of Reaganomics, Paul Craig Roberts; founder of Mint Press News, Mnar A. Muhawesh; author and historian Michael Parenti; Israeli journalist Gideon Levy; Philip Giraldi; Socialist Party USA 2016 Presidential Candidate Mimi Soltysik, and scientist Guy McPherson.\n\n\n...an independent initiative to crowd-source funding for a research and writing project, aiming to produce a series of books which take a radical look at the ideas, institutions, and individuals of power and resistance. The books aim to study power and people: what is the nature of our society, how did we get here, who brought us here, why, where are we going, when will we get there, and what can we do to change it?\n\n\n...analyzes the work of Greek Marxist political sociologist, Nicos Poulantzas, and applies it to the unique political and economic structures found under neoliberalism and post-industrial capitalism.\n\n\n...presents a multi-part analysis of Cuba, including dispatches and observations from his 2014 visit to the country. Partyka aims to present the most accurate insight into the reality of Cuba today, as it embarks on an unprecedented transition. With a heavy reliance on macroeconomic, geopolitical, and foreign policy analysis, this study seeks to pinpoint the nuanced economic, political, and social changes that are occurring on the island nation, and how these changes are impacting everyday Cubans.\n\n\n...analyzes the various health consequences of the global food production operations, distribution systems, preparation, and consumption, that affect women.\n\n...connect individuals currently incarcerated in America's 'Prison Industrial Complex' with their concerned brothers and sisters who are not currently incarcerated, with the intention of creating class-consciousness through relationships, education, and empowerment.\n\nHampton's analyses and commentaries have been picked up and republished by numerous media outlets, most notably Monthly Review, Z Magazine, Truthout, Alternet, Common Dreams NewsCenter, Black Agenda Report, Dissident Voice, Foreign Policy Journal, and Popular Resistance. Andrew Gavin Marshall has been featured in ROAR Magazine and interviewed by Russia Today for his geopolitical analysis. Marshall is also a regular contributor to Sibel Edmonds' \"Boiling Frogs Post\". Marshall and Jenkins have both contributed essays to the Transnational Institute's annual State of Power report. Education chairperson Derek R. Ford has been featured numerous times on PressTV for his geopolitical analysis. Syard Evans (Society & Culture) participated in a TED talk event in April 2014. In January 2016, Jason Michael Williams and Colin Jenkins joined other scholars and activists in a special series on \"The Possible Futures of the US Under Trump,\" published by Social Justice: A Journal of Crime, Conflict, and World Order.\n\nThe HI has featured interviews with Angela Davis, Cornel West, David Graeber, Chris Hedges, and Staughton Lynd; and work from Noam Chomsky, John Pilger, Peter McLaren, Deepa Kumar, Ursula Le Guin, rapper and activist Immortal Technique, the co-founder of participatory economics, Michael Albert, and MMA fighter Jeff Monson.\n\nIn April 2015, the Hampton Institute was one of a number of organizations invited to submit a report to the United Nations General Assembly regarding Resolution A/RES/69/160 on \"Combating glorification of Nazism, neo-Nazism and other practices that contribute to fueling contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance.\" The HI's report, \"Rising Nazism and Racial Intolerance in the United States: A Contemporary Analysis\", focused on a variety of areas including (1) a brief history of Nazism in the US, (2) Neoliberal economics, rising inequality and austerity as a driver, (3) Nazism and white supremacy in the US military, (4) Nazism and white supremacy online, (5) Nazism and white supremacy on college campuses, (6) Racist policing and mass incarceration, (7) Nazism protected by the state, (8) Rising fascism in American politics, (9) a case study on the state of California, and (10) a comparative analysis regarding Australia.\n\nThe HI relies solely on donations from readers and supporters. The organization has not released a financial report to date. In August 2018, the organization announced a detailed, five-year plan along with launching a Patreon account as a means to fund this plan. The plan includes: (1) An improved website with more user-friendly layout and improved searchability; (2) HI believes in compensation for one's work - writers, editors, etc. are no exception. All of our members are volunteers, and all of our contributors are currently unpaid. We want to change that; (3) Revitalizing HI's publishing house (HI Press). If working-class consciousness is going to be raised to where it needs to be in our lifetime, our political perspectives will need to be as widely available as possible, both online and, as affordably as possible, in print; (4) Further develop and improve HI's excellent podcast (“A Different Lens”) hosted by Devon Bowers. Devon does great work already, and we’re excited to see what he can do with some improved recording equipment and editing software; (5)Expand engagement with working-class movements and contribute to consciousness raising beyond the website, podcast, and publishing. HI wants to become a more active participant in the growth of a working-class public sphere. While HI is somewhat limited as a non-profit, we hope to push up against the legal boundaries (without crossing them, of course. We would never deign to do such a thing.), to participate in and host, among other things: public talks, educational seminars, teach-ins, and book talks. HI contributors will continue to show up in the streets, as they have always done—and we want to see you in the streets, too; (6) More of everything you already love and value from HI. More and better content of the kind that you’ve always come to HI for. Our hope is to increase the frequency and quality of new content (from monthly to at least bi-weekly and eventually weekly, if not daily); (7) Lastly, we want to make it abundantly clear that everything that has been freely available to the public through HI will remain free. We have no plans to put ads on the website, and we have no plans to charge our readers or listeners for anything we produce. To continue to do this—and to do it better—we need your help. As of September 19th, 2018, the organization has 41 patrons pledging a total of $279 per month.\n\nMany of Hampton's members are involved in activism, direct action, and community outreach. Sean Posey has worked in community development at the Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation, where he assists with vacancy issues and urban agriculture in the inner city of Youngstown, Ohio. Derek Ide is the co-founder of and community adviser to the University of Toledo's Students for Justice in Palestine chapter on campus. Jonathan Mathias Lassiter has served as a therapist at the Center for HIV Educational Studies and Training, where he provided clinical services for a National Institute on Drug Abuse funded clinical intervention trial. Jeriah Bowser has been involved in prison outreach programs. Derek Ford is an anti-war and anti-racist organizer with A.N.S.W.E.R. Boyce Brown has been active in Hawaii's indigenous rights movement for many years. Eyad Alkurabi is a community organizer for GetEQUAL. Debra Hocking received an International Year of Peace award, and the Tasmanian Human Rights Award for humanitarian work in her homeland of Tasmania.\n\nIn June 2014, the HI sponsored a two-part book talk on Thomas Piketty's \"Capital in the Twenty-First Century\". The presenters were Nicholas Partyka and Colin Donnaruma, and the two events took place at the Social Justice Center in Albany, New York.\n\nIn August 2014, the HI sponsored a \"Freedom for Gaza\" protest and march. The event took place in Albany, New York and was part of a nationwide \"Day of Rage\" coordinated in hundreds of cities in response to Israel's bombing of the Gaza strip.\n\nIn November 2014, Criminal Justice department chair, Dr. Jason Michael Williams, traveled to Ferguson, Missouri as part of an effort to assess the 2014 Ferguson unrest due to the Michael Brown shooting. Williams was part of a collection of criminologists and professors seeking to monitor the nature of the police response, which was deemed by many organizations (including Amnesty International) to be \"heavy-handed\" and \"excessive\".\n\nIn December 2014, the HI became an official sponsor of the James Connolly Forum in Troy, New York. The forum is a monthly event that attracts speakers, scholars, and activists from a wide range of disciplines. Guest speakers to date have included Doug Henwood, Liza Featherstone, author and professor Jodi Dean, peace activist Dahlia Wasfi, author Vijay Prashad, teacher and activist Brian Jones, and founder and editor of Jacobin Magazine, Bhaskar Sunkara.\n\nIn June 2016, the HI co-sponsored a panel discussion on \"Electoral Politics and the Left\". The panel included Green Party US Presidential candidate, Jill Stein, the International Socialist Organization's Ashley Smith, and Bhaskar Sunkara.\n\nIn September 2016, the HI and its founder, Colin Jenkins, publicly endorsed the September 9th nationally coordinated prisoner work stoppage and protest throughout the United States. The coordinated work stoppage was designed as a direct action protest by prisoners who are essentially used as slave labor throughout the country. The action was organized by the Industrial Workers of the World and its Incarcerated Workers Organizing Committee.\n\nIn April 2017, the HI sponsored a weekend conference on the State University of New York at Albany campus. The conference, titled \"When I See Them, I See Us,\" was focused around \"intersectional, anti-capitalist discussion and action,\" and touched on various issues such as Black liberation and Black Lives Matter, the struggle in Palestine, the Indigenous struggle and water justice, migrant and immigrant rights, battling Islamophobia, and the prison industrial complex. HI's Labor Issues chair Nicholas Partyka gave a presentation on \"Mass Incarceration and Monopoly Capital.\" The HI directly sponsored another presentation, given by Miguel Roel, on \"Imperialism and Immigration.\"\n\nThe HI publicly endorsed the Workers March on Washington, D.C. on April 30, 2017. The march was organized as a way to create working-class solidarity with \"people across the globe who are realizing that we have more in common with each other than we do with the 0.1% of humans who own the top 50% of all 'wealth.' The same humans who make\nshort sighted destructive decisions for the rest of us in order to increase their own profit.\"\n\nIn May 2017, the HI was one of six sponsoring organizations of FemJam 2017: Jamming Feminism and Organizing Across LA. HI's Women's Issues chair Cherise Charleswell was a participant at the conference.\n\nThe Institute officially endorsed a solidarity peace delegation to South Korea to demand an end militarism in Korea and Asia and to support dialogue with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in July 2017.\n\nIn August 2017, Education Chair Derek Ford organized and led a peace delegation to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea through Korea Peace Tours. The delegation met with workers, cooperative farmers, students, professors, soldiers, generals, and government officials throughout the time there. They were the last U.S. delegation to visit the country before the U.S. travel ban was implemented.\n\nThe HI is one of many organizations to have officially endorsed the People's Congress of Resistance, which is scheduled for September 16–17 in Washington, D.C. The HI joins a long list of \"endorsements that are coming in from all over the country, and from grassroots resisters from all walks of life — from Black Lives Matter to immigrant rights, climate justice, trade union, women's rights, and LGBTQ rights groups.\" The Congress plans \"confront the Congress of the millionaires (US Congress), galvanize the energy of the many groups resisting Trump, and demonstrate what democracy looks like.\"\n\nThe HI endorsed the Nationwide Prison Strike that occurred between August 21 and September 9, 2018. The strike was organized by prisoners throughout the United States with assistance from the Industrial Workers of the World's Incarcerated Workers Organizing Committee. Striking prisoners released a list of ten demands: (1) Immediate improvements to the conditions of prisons and prison policies that recognize the humanity of imprisoned men and women; (2) An immediate end to prison slavery. All persons imprisoned in any place of detention under United States jurisdiction must be paid the prevailing wage in their state or territory for their labor; (3) The Prison Litigation Reform Act must be rescinded, allowing imprisoned humans a proper channel to address grievances and violations of their rights; (4) The Truth in Sentencing Act and the Sentencing Reform Act must be rescinded so that imprisoned humans have a possibility of rehabilitation and parole. No human shall be sentenced to Death by Incarceration or serve any sentence without the possibility of parole; (5) An immediate end to the racial overcharging, over-sentencing, and parole denials of Black and brown humans. Black humans shall no longer be denied parole because the victim of the crime was white, which is a particular problem in southern states; (6) An immediate end to racist gang enhancement laws targeting Black and brown humans; (7) No imprisoned human shall be denied access to rehabilitation programs at their place of detention because of their label as a violent offender; (8) State prisons must be funded specifically to offer more rehabilitation services; (9) Pell grants must be reinstated in all US states and territories; (10) The voting rights of all confined citizens serving prison sentences, pretrial detainees, and so-called “ex-felons” must be counted. Representation is demanded. All voices count. \n"}
{"id": "33391124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33391124", "title": "Waiwai language", "text": "Waiwai language\n\nWaiwai (Uaiuai, Uaieue, Ouayeone) is a Cariban language of northern Brazil, with a couple hundred speakers across the border in southern Guyana and Suriname.\n\n"}
{"id": "2630865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2630865", "title": "Women in Japan", "text": "Women in Japan\n\nWhile women in Japan were recognized as having equal legal rights to men after World War II, economic conditions for women remain unbalanced. Modern policy initiatives to encourage motherhood and workplace participation have had mixed results. \n\nWhile a high percentage of Japanese women are college graduates, making up 77% of the part-time work force, they typically earn 27% less than their male counterparts. Traditional expectations for married women and mothers are cited as a barrier to full economic equality. The monarchy is strictly males-only and a princess has to give up her royal status when she marries a commoner.\n\nThe extent to which women could participate in Japanese society has varied over time and social classes. In the 8th century, Japan had women emperors, and in the 12th century during the Heian period, women in Japan could inherit property in their own names and manage it by themselves: \"Women could own property, be educated, and were allowed, if discrete (sic), to take lovers.\"\n\nFrom the late Edo period, the status of women declined. In the 17th century, the \"Onna Daigaku\", or \"Learning for Women\", by Confucianist author Kaibara Ekken, spelled out expectations for Japanese women, stating that \"such is the stupidity of her character that it is incumbent on her, in every particular, to distrust herself and to obey her husband\".\n\nDuring the Meiji period, industrialization and urbanization reduced the authority of fathers and husbands, but at the same time the Meiji Civil Code of 1898 (specifically the introduction of the \"ie\" system) denied women legal rights and subjugated them to the will of household heads.\n\nIn interviews with Japanese housewives in 1985, researchers found that socialized feminine behavior in Japan followed several patterns of modesty, tidiness, courtesy, compliance, and self-reliance. Modesty extended to the effective use of silence in both daily conversations and activities. Tidiness included personal appearance and a clean home. Courtesy, another trait, was called upon from women in domestic roles and in entertaining guests, extended to activities such as preparing and serving tea.\n\nLebra's traits for internal comportment of femininity included compliance; for example, children were expected not to refuse their parents. Self-reliance of women was encouraged because needy women were seen as a burden on others. In these interviews with Japanese families, Lebra found that girls were assigned helping tasks while boys were more inclined to be left to schoolwork. Lebra's work has been critiqued for focusing specifically on a single economic segment of Japanese women.\n\nAlthough Japan remains a socially conservative society, with relatively pronounced gender roles, Japanese women and Japanese society are quite different from the strong stereotypes that exist in foreign media or travel guides, which paint the women in Japan as 'submissive' and devoid of any self-determination. Another strong stereotype about Japan is that women always stay in the home as housewives and that they do not participate in public life: in reality most women are employed – the employment rate of women (age 15–64) is 64.6% (data from OECD 2015).\n\nThe Japanese Constitution, drafted by the US and adopted in the post-war era, provided a legal framework favorable to the advancement of women’s equality in Japan. Women were given the right to vote in 1946. This allowed them greater freedom, equality to men, and a higher status within Japanese society. Other postwar reforms opened education institutions to women and required that women receive equal pay for equal work. In 1986, the Equal Employment Opportunity Law took effect. Legally, few barriers to women's equal participation in the life of society remain. However, socially they lack opportunities in the workforce due to the long work hours and dominance in the workplace by men.\n\nIn a global survey of women in parliaments, Japan ranked 123rd out of 189 countries. In Japan's Diet, women hold slightly less than 10% of seats despite a government goal for 30% of elected officials to be women by 2020. In the lower house of the Diet, women hold only 8% of seats, with 19% in the upper house. Less than 1% of mayors were women.\n\nThe Japanese government has expressed a will to address this inequality of numbers in the 21st century of the Heisei period through several focused initiatives, and a 2012 poll by the Cabinet Office found that nearly 70% of all Japanese polled agreed that men were given preferential treatment.\n\nDuring the 21st century, Japanese women are working in higher proportions than the United States's working female population. Income levels between men and women in Japan are not equal; the average Japanese woman earns 40 percent less than the average man, and a tenth of management positions are held by women. Women are often found in part time or temporary jobs. 77% of these jobs were filled by women in 2012. Among women who do work, women-only unions are small in size and in relative power.\nA common occupation for young women is that of office lady, that is, a female office worker who performs generally pink collar tasks such as serving tea and secretarial or clerical work.\n\nJapan has a strong tradition of women being housewives after marriage. When mothers do work, they often pick up part-time, low-paying jobs based on their children's or husband's schedule. Taking care of the family and household is seen as a predominately female role, and working women are expected to fulfill it. Nevertheless, in recent years the numbers of women who work has increased: in 2014, women made up 42.7% of the labour force of Japan. Japan has an especially high proportion of women who work part-time, and a majority of those women are mothers.\n\nIn one poll, 30% of mothers who returned to work reported being victims of \"maternity harassment\", or \"matahara\". The obento box tradition, where mothers prepare elaborate lunches for their children to take to school, is an example of a domestic female role.\n\nA number of government and private post-war policies have contributed to a gendered division of labor. These include a family wage offered by corporations which subsidized health and housing subsidies, marriage bonuses and additional bonuses for each child; and pensions for wives who earn below certain incomes. Additionally, in 1961, income for wives of working men were untaxed below $10,000; income above that amount contributed to overall household income. Corporate culture also plays a role; while many men are expected to socialize with their managers after long work days, women may find trouble balancing child-rearing roles with the demands of mandatory after-work social events.\n\nSome economists suggest that a better support system for working mothers, such as a shorter daily work schedule, would allow more women to work, increasing Japan's economic growth. To that end, in 2003, the Japanese government set a goal to have 30% of senior government roles filled by women. In 2015, only 3.5% were; the government has since slashed the 2020 goal to 7%, and set a private industry goal to 15%.\n\nThe traditional role of women in Japan has been defined as \"three submissions\": young women submit to their fathers; married women submit to their husbands, and elderly women submit to their sons. Strains of this arrangement can be seen in contemporary Japan, where housewives are responsible for cooking, cleaning, child-rearing and support their husbands to work without any worries about family, as well as balancing the household's finances. Yet, as the number of dual-income households rises, women and men are sharing household chores, and research shows that this has led to increased satisfaction over households that divide labor in traditional ways.\n\nFamilies, prior to and during the Meiji restoration, relied on a patriarchal lineage of succession, with disobedience to the male head of the household punishable by expulsion from the family unit. Male heads of households with only daughters would adopt male heirs to succeed them, sometimes through arranged marriage to a daughter. Heads of households were responsible for house finances, but could delegate to another family member or retainer (employee). Women in these households were typically subject to arranged marriages at the behest of the household's patriarch. Married women marked themselves by blackening their teeth and shaving their eyebrows.\n\nAfter the Meiji period, the head of the household was required to approve of any marriage. Until 1908, it remained legal for husbands to murder wives for infidelity.\n\nAs late as the 1930s, arranged marriages continued, and so-called \"love matches\" were thought to be rare and somewhat scandalous, especially for the husband, who would be thought \"effeminate\".\n\nThe Post-War Constitution, however, codified women’s right to choose their partners. Article 24 of Japan's Constitution states:\n\nThis established several changes to women’s roles in the family, such as the right to inherit the family home or land, and the right of women (over the age of 20) to marry without the consent of the house patriarch.\n\nIn the early Meiji period, many girls married at age 16; by the post-war period, it had risen to 23, and continued to rise. The average age for a Japanese woman’s first marriage has steadily risen since 1970, from 24 to 29.3 years old in 2015.\n\nIn the Tokugawa period, men could divorce their wives simply through stating their intention to do so in a letter. Wives could not legally arrange for a divorce, but options included joining convents, such as at Kamakura, where men were not permitted to go, thus assuring a permanent separation.\n\nUnder the Meiji system, however, the law limited grounds for divorce to seven events: sterility, adultery, disobedience to the parents-in-law, loquacity, larceny, jealousy, and disease. However, the law offered a protection for divorcees by guaranteeing a wife could not be sent away if she had nowhere else to go. Furthermore, the law allowed a woman to request a divorce, so long as she was accompanied by a male relative and could prove desertion or imprisonment of the husband, profligacy, or mental or physical illness.\n\nBy 1898, cruelty was added to the grounds for a woman to divorce; the law also allowed divorce through mutual agreement of the husband and wife. However, children were assumed to remain with the male head of the household. In contemporary Japan, children are more likely to live with single mothers than single fathers; in 2013, 7.4% of children were living in single-mother households; only 1.3% live with their fathers.\n\nWhen divorce was granted under equal measures to both sexes under the post-war constitution, divorce rates steadily increased.\n\nIn 2015, Article 733 of Japan’s Civil Code that states that women cannot remarry 6 months after divorce was reduced to 100 days. The 6 month ban on remarriage for women was previously aiming to \"avoid uncertainty regarding the identity of the legally presumed father of any child born in that time period\". Under article 772, presumes that after a divorce, a child born 300 days after divorce is the legal child of the previous husband. A ruling issued on December 16, 2015, the Supreme Court of Japan ruled that in light of the new 100 days before women's remarriage law, so that there is no confusion over the paternity of a child born to a woman who remarried, any child born after 200 days of remarriage is the legal child of the current husband.\n\nThe Ministry of Japan revealed the outline of an amendment for the Civil Code of Japan on February 18, 2016. This amend shortens the women's remarriage period to 100 days and allows any woman who is not pregnant during the divorce to remarry immediately after divorce.\n\nThe Civil Code of Japan requires legally married spouses to have the same surname. Although the law is gender-neutral, meaning that either spouse is allowed to change his/her name to that of the other spouse, Japanese women have traditionally adopt their husband’s family name and 96% of women continue to do so as of 2015. In 2015, the Japanese Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the law, noting that women could use their maiden names informally, and stating that it was for the legislature to decide on whether to pass new legislation on separate spousal names.\n\nWhile women before the Meiji period were often considered incompetent in the raising of children, the Meiji period saw motherhood as the central task of women, and allowed education of women toward this end. Raising children and keeping household affairs in order were seen as women's role in the state. Women's political and social advancement was thus tied to their role as mothers.\n\nToday, Japanese mothers are still seen as managers of a household, including the behavior of their children. For example, media reports often focus on the apologies of criminals' mothers.\n\nThere is continuing debate about the role women's education plays in Japan's declining birthrate. Japan's total fertility rate is 1.4 children born per woman (2015 estimate), which is below the replacement rate of 2.1. Japanese women have their first child at an average age of 30.3 (2012 estimate).\n\nGovernment policies to increase the birthrate include early education designed to develop citizens into capable parents. Some critics of these policies believe that this emphasis on birth rate is incompatible with a full recognition of women's equality in Japan.\n\nWith the development of society, more and more girls go to colleges to receive higher education. Today, more than half of Japanese women are college or university graduates. The proportion of female researchers in Japan is 14.6%.\n\nModern education of women began in earnest during the Meiji era's modernization campaign. The first schools for women began during this time, though education topics were highly gendered, with women learning arts of the samurai class, such as tea ceremonies and flower arrangement. The 1871 education code established that students should be educated \"without any distinction of class or sex\". Nonetheless, after 1891 students were typically segregated after third grade, and many girls did not extend their educations past middle school.\n\nBy the end of the Meiji period, there was a women's school in every prefecture in Japan, operated by a mix of government, missionary, and private interests. By 1910, very few universities accepted women. Graduation was not assured, as often women were pulled out of school to marry or to study \"practical matters\".\n\nNotably, Tsuruko Haraguchi, the first woman in Japan to earn a PhD, did so in the US, as no Meiji-era institution would allow her to receive her doctorate. She and other women who studied abroad and returned to Japan, such as Yoshioka Yayoi and Tsuda Umeko, were among the first wave of women's educators who lead the way to the incorporation of women in Japanese academia.\n\nAfter 1945, the Allied occupation aimed to enforce equal education between sexes; this included a recommendation in 1946 to provide compulsory co-education until the age of 16. By the end of 1947, nearly all middle schools and more than half of high schools were co-educational.\n\nIn 2012, 98.1% of female students and 97.8% of male students were able to reach senior high school. Of those, 55.6% of men and 45.8% of women continued with undergraduate studies, although 10% of these female graduates attended junior college.\n\nAt 87 years, the life expectancy of Japanese women is the longest of any gender in the world.\n\nAbortion in Japan is legal under some restrictions. The number per year has declined by 500,000 since 1975. Of the 200,000 abortions performed per year, however, 10% are teenage women, a number which has risen since 1975.\n\nIn 2002, the government of Japan passed a law against domestic violence. In 2013, 100,000 women reported domestic violence to shelters. Of the 10,000 entering protective custody at the shelter, nearly half arrived with children or other family members.\n\nIn Japan, domestic disputes have traditionally been seen as a result of negligence or poor support from the female partner. A partner's outburst can therefore be a source of shame to the wife or mother of the man they are supposed to care for. Because women's abuse would be detrimental to the family of the abused, legal, medical and social intervention in domestic disputes was rare.\n\nAfter a spate of research during the 1990s, Japan passed the Prevention of Spousal Violence and the Protection of\nVictims act in 2001. The law referred to domestic violence as \"a violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights between sexes\". This law established protection orders from abusive spouses and created support centers in every prefecture, but women are still reluctant to report abuse to doctors out of shame or fear that the report would be shared with the abuser. A 2001 survey showed that many health professionals were not trained to handle domestic abuse and blamed women who sought treatment.\n\nStalking laws were passed in 2000 after the media attention given to the murder of a university student who had been a stalking victim. With nearly 21,000 reports of stalking in 2013, 90.3% of the victims were women and 86.9% of the perpetrators were men. Anti-stalking laws in Japan were expanded in 2013 to include e-mail harassment, after the widely publicized 2012 murder of a young woman who had reported such harassment to police. Stalking reports are growing at a faster rate in Japan than any other country.\n\nSurveys show that between 28% and 70% of women have been groped on train cars. Some railway companies designate women-only passenger cars though there are no penalties for men to ride in a women-only car. Gropers can be punished with seven years or less of jail time and/or face fines of just under $500.\n\nThe use of women-only cars in Japan has been critiqued from various perspectives. Some suggest that the presence of the cars makes women who choose not to use them more vulnerable. Public comment sometimes include the argument that women-only cars are a step too far in protecting women. Some academics have argued that the cars impose the burden of social segregation to women, rather than seeking the punishment of criminals. Another critique suggests the cars send the signal that men create a dangerous environment for women, who cannot protect themselves.\n\nThe Japanese cosmetics industry is the second largest in the world, earning over $15 billion per year. The strong market for beauty products has been connected to the value placed on self-discipline and self-improvement in Japan, where the body is mastered through \"kata\", repeated actions aspiring toward perfection, such as bowing.\n\nIn the Heian period, feminine beauty standards favored darkened teeth, some body fat, and eyebrows painted above the original (which were shaved).\n\nBeauty corporations have had a role in creating contemporary standards of beauty in Japan since the Meiji era. For example, the Japanese cosmetics firm, Shiseido published a magazine, \"Hannatsubaki\", with beauty advice for women emphasizing hair styles and contemporary fashion. The pre-war \"modern girl\" of Japan followed Western fashions as filtered through this kind of Japanese media.\n\nProducts reflect several common anxieties among Japanese women. Multiple polls suggest that women worry about \"fatness, breast size, hairiness and bust size\". The idealized figure of a Japanese woman is generally fragile and petite. Japanese beauty ideals favor small features and narrow faces. Big eyes are admired, especially when they have \"double eyelids\".\n\nAnother ideal is pale skin. Tanned skin was historically associated with the working-class, and pale skin associated with the nobility. Many women in Japan will take precaution to avoid the sun, and some lotions are sold to make the skin whiter.\n\nBy the 1970s, \"cuteness\" had emerged as a desirable aesthetic, which some scholars linked to a boom in comic books that emphasized young-looking girls, or Lolitas. While these characters typically included larger eyes, research suggests that it was not a traditional standard of beauty in Japan, preferred in medical research and described as \"unsightly\" by cosmetic researchers of the Edo era.\n\nClothing is another element in beauty standards for women in Japan. Again, femininity is a large factor; therefore, pinks, reds, bows, and frills are all found in their apparel. Kimonos, full-length silk robes, are worn by women on special occasions.\n\nA is a traditional Japanese female entertainer who acts as a hostess and whose skills include performing various Japanese arts such as classical music, dance, games, serving tea and conversation, mainly to entertain male customers. Geisha are trained very seriously as skilled entertainers and are not to be confused with prostitutes. The training program starts from a young age, typically 15 years old, and can take anywhere from six months to three years. \n\nA young geisha in training, under the age of 20, is called a maiko. Maiko (literally \"dance girl\") are apprentice geisha, and this stage can last for years. Maiko learn from their senior geisha mentor and follow them to all their engagements. Then at around the age of 20–22, the maiko is promoted to a full-fledged geisha in a ceremony called erikae (turning of the collar).\n\nIn Japan, the contraceptive pill was legalized in 1999, much later than in most Western countries. Its use is still low, with many couples preferring condoms. Sexuality in Japan has developed separately from mainland Asia, and Japan did not adopt the Confucian view of marriage in which chastity is highly valued. However, births outside marriage remain rare in Japan.\n\n\nHistory:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "229058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229058", "title": "Young adult (psychology)", "text": "Young adult (psychology)\n\nA young adult is generally a person ranging in age from their late teens or early twenties to their thirties, although definitions and opinions, such as Erik Erikson's stages of human development, vary. The young adult stage in human development precedes middle adulthood. A person in the middle adulthood stage ages from 40 or 41 to 64. In old age, a person is 65 years old or older.\n\nFor a variety of reasons, timeliness on young adulthood cannot be exactly defined—producing different results according to the different mix of overlapping indices (legal, maturational, occupational, sexual, emotional and the like) employed, or on whether 'a \"developmental perspective\"... [or] the \"socialization perspective\" is taken. 'Sub-phases in this timetable of psychosocial growth patterns... are not rigid, and both social change and individual variations must be taken into account'—not to mention regional and cultural differences. Arguably indeed, with people living longer, and also reaching puberty earlier, 'age norms for major life events have become highly elastic' by the twenty-first century.\n\nSome have suggested that, after \"Pre-adulthood\"... in the first 20 years or so... the second era, \"Early Adulthood\", lasts from about age 17 to 45... the adult era of greatest energy and abundance and of greatest contradiction and stress.' Within that framework, 'the \"Early Adult Transition\" (17–22) is a developmental bridge between pre-adulthood and early adulthood', recognizing that 'the transition into adulthood is not a clear-cut dividing line'. One might alternatively speak of 'a \"Provisional Adulthood (18–30)\"... [&] the initiation to First Adulthood' as following that.\n\nDespite all such fluidity, there is broad agreement that it is essentially the twenties and thirties which constitute \"Early adulthood\"... the basis for what Levinson calls \"the Dream\"—a vision of his [or her] goal's in life which provide motivation and enthusiasm for the future'.\n\nYoung/prime adulthood can be considered the healthiest time of life and young adults are generally in good health, subject neither to disease nor the problems of senescence. Strength and physical performance reach their peak from 18–39 years of age. Flexibility may decrease with age throughout adulthood.\n\nWomen reach their peak fertility in their early 20s.\n\nIn developed countries, mortality rates for the 18–40 age group are typically very low. Men are more likely to die at this age than women, particularly in the 18–25 group: reasons include car accidents and suicide. Mortality statistics among men and women level off during the late twenties and thirties, due in part to good health and less risk-taking behavior.\n\nRegarding disease, cancer is much less common in young than in older adults. Exceptions are testicular cancer, cervical cancer, and Hodgkin's lymphoma. In sub-Saharan Africa, HIV/AIDS has hit the early adult population particularly hard. According to a United Nations report, AIDS has significantly increased mortality of between ages 20 to 55 for African males and 20 to 45 for African females, reducing the life expectancy in South Africa by 18 years and in Botswana by 34 years.\n\nAccording to Erikson, in the wake of the adolescent emphasis upon identity formation, 'the young adult, emerging from the search for and insistence on identity, is eager and willing to fuse their identity with that of others. He [or she] is ready for intimacy, that is, the capacity to commit... to concrete affiliations and partnerships.' To do so means the ability 'to face the fear of ego loss in situations which call for self-abandon: in the solidarity of close affiliations, in orgasms and sexual unions, in close friendships and in physical combat'. Avoidance of such experiences 'because of a fear of ego-loss may lead to a deep sense of isolation and consequent self-absorption'.\n\nWhere isolation is avoided, the young adult may find instead that 'satisfactory sex relations... in some way take the edge off the hostilities and potential rages caused by the oppositeness of male and female, of fact and fancy, of love and hate'; and may grow into the ability to exchange intimacy, love and compassion.\n\nIn modern societies, young adults in their late teens and early 20s encounter a number of issues as they finish school and begin to hold full-time jobs and take on other responsibilities of adulthood; and 'the young adult is usually preoccupied with self-growth in the context of society and relationships with others.' The danger is that in 'the second era, \"Early Adulthood\"... we must make crucially important choices regarding marriage, family, work, and lifestyle before we have the maturity or life experience to choose wisely.'\n\nWhile 'young adulthood is filled with avid quests for intimate relationships and other major commitments involving career and life goals', there is also \"a parallel pursuit for the formulation of a set of moral values\". Erikson has argued that it is only now that what he calls the 'ideological mind' of adolescence gives way to 'that \"ethical sense\" which is the mark of the adult.'\n\nReaching adulthood in modern society is not always a linear or clean transition. As generations continue to adapt, new markers of adulthood are created that add different social expectations of what it means to be an adult.\n\nDaniel Levinson suggested that the first phase of early adulthood comes to a close around twenty-eight to thirty, when 'at about 28 the provisional character of the twenties is ending and life is becoming more serious... the \"age-thirty crisis\".' between age 28 and 32', stressing that 'it is not uncommon, at the approach to the thirties, to tear up the life structure one put together to support the original dream of the twenties,' and to start anew—'to create the basis for the next life structure.\nWhen 'the Age Thirty Transition' is a difficult one, 'in a severe crisis [s/]he experiences a threat to life itself, the danger of chaos and dissolution, the loss of hope for the future.\n\nAfter the relative upheaval of the early 30s, the middle to late 30s are often characterized by settling down: 'the establishment phase', involving 'what we would call \"major life investments\"—work, family, friends, community activities, and values.' What has been termed 'the \"Culminating Life Structure for Early Adulthood\" (33–40) is the vehicle for completing this era and realizing our youthful aspirations.' People in their thirties may increase the financial and emotional investments they make in their lives, and may have been employed long enough to gain promotions and raises. They often become more focused on advancing their careers and gaining stability in their personal lives—'with marriage and child-rearing,' starting a family, coming to the fore as priorities.\n\nGail Sheehy, however, signposts the same twenties/thirties division rather differently, arguing that nowadays 'the twenties have stretched out into a long Provisional Adulthood', and that in fact 'the transition to the Turbulent Thirties marks the initiation to First Adulthood.'\n\nYoung Adulthood then draws to its close with 'the \"Midlife Transition\", from roughly age 40 to 45'—producing 'a brand-new passage in the forties, when First Adulthood ends and Second Adulthood begins.'\n\n\n"}
