{"id": "27942408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27942408", "title": "AB Bookman's Weekly", "text": "AB Bookman's Weekly\n\nAB Bookman's Weekly was a weekly trade publication begun in 1948 by Sol. M. Malkin as a publication of the R. R. Bowker Company, publisher of \"Books in Print\" and other book trade and library periodicals. In its glory days between the early 1950s and the early 1990s, \"AB\" was \"the best marketplace for out-of-print books in North America.\" Nicholas Basbanes called it \"the leading trade publication in the antiquarian world.\" In addition to publishing long lists of books wanted and for sale, it included trade news, reference lists, conference announcements, and various special features concerning the book trade, librarianship, and book collecting. The magazine was headquartered in Newark, New Jersey.\n\nThe magazine began as a column in \"Publishers Weekly\" called \"Antiquarian Bookseller\"; in 1948, it spun off as a separate publication, at a time when there was a flourishing mail-order business in out-of-print and second-hand books. Malkin purchased the magazine from Bowker in 1953. It first appeared under its final title in 1967. For more than four decades, it was essential reading not only for used and rare booksellers, but also for acquisitions and rare book librarians, book collectors, as well as those interested in the history of books and printing. Malkin was assisted by his wife, Mary Ann O'Brian Malkin, universally known as \"[mam],\" whose interest in embroidery was reflected in her many \"AB\" reviews of needlework books. In 1972, when Sol. Malkin sold the magazine to Jacob L. Chernofsky, \"AB Bookman's Weekly\" had a subscription list of more than 10,000 subscribers. In 1985, an annual lecture in bibliography was established in Sol. M. Malkin's honor at Columbia University's School of Library Service. Sol. M. Malkin died in 1986. In 1992, the Malkin Lecture site moved with Rare Book School to the University of Virginia, where it continues as the annual Sol. M. and Mary Ann O'Brian Lecture in Bibliography.\n\nIn December 1977, Chernofsky and Margaret Knox Goggin, dean of the University of Denver's School of Librarianship, organized a seminar on used and antiquarian books, aimed at booksellers and librarians. The Workshop/Seminar in the Out-of-Print and Antiquarian Book Market (the eventual title of the seminar) became an annual event in 1979; in 2008 (as the Colorado Antiquaran Book Seminar), the seminar celebrated its 30th anniversary.\n\nUnder Chernofsky's direction, \"AB Bookman's Weekly\" flourished into the early 1990s, but it began to falter because of competition from online listings of used and rare books. \"AB Bookman's Weekly\" ceased publication at the end of 1999. Efforts by \"Publishers Weekly\" to revive it as an Internet online magazine in 2004 were unsuccessful.\n\n"}
{"id": "4751533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4751533", "title": "Advertising Standards Board of Finance", "text": "Advertising Standards Board of Finance\n\nThe Advertising Standards Board of Finance (ASBOF) collects a voluntary levy on advertising costs to fund the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA). Typically, the levy is 0.1% on non-broadcast costs (e.g. 0.1% of the cost of placing a newspaper advertisement), and 0.2% of the cost of a Mailsort contract. ASBOF collects the levy and then passes the funds on to the ASA to ensure that the ASA are unaware of who has contributed to its funding. This avoids the question of money influencing the ASA's decision in its rulings.\n\nAll advertising charges (except classified lineage and semi-display) are subject to a 0.1% Advertising Standards Board of Finance (asbof) levy, payable by advertisers to help finance the self-regulatory system administered by the Advertising Standards Authority.\n\nThe levy will be collected from advertisers by advertising agencies or, in case of direct accounts, by media owners.\n\nIn December 2009 after 18 months' consultation with the industry and ASA, it was agreed that the levy would be expanded to include paid search advertising.\n"}
{"id": "36825677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36825677", "title": "Bjørn Frøysåk", "text": "Bjørn Frøysåk\n\nBjørn Tolleivson Frøysåk (1634 – 1709) was a Norwegian farmer and merchant. \n\nFrøysåk was born at Gol in Buskerud, Norway. He was born into one of the major farming families in Hallingdal. His father, Tolleiv Arneson Frøysåk (1605-1677),had owned several properties. Frøysåk worked as a farmer all his life. In addition to farming, Frøysåk took part in timber trade and trading of real estate, and was ran a coaching inn. \n\nFrøysåk was married twice. With Ingebjørg Hersgård (died 1680), he had seven children. With Guri Tolleivsgard (1659-1733), he had eight children. Frøysåk is particularly known for a painted epitaph from 1699, showing Frøysåk with his family (both his wives including the deceased Ingebjørg and children). The epitaph, originally in Gol Stave Church, was relocated to the Norwegian Museum of Cultural History in 1906.\n"}
{"id": "7483647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7483647", "title": "Carmen Radu", "text": "Carmen Radu\n\nCarmen Radu is a former President and CEO of Exim Bank of Romania. Radu took on the role in 2005 and was replaced by Ionut Costea in 2009. She formally occupied posts in the Ministry of Public Finance and was a director in the institution.\n"}
{"id": "54891526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54891526", "title": "Communication, navigation and surveillance", "text": "Communication, navigation and surveillance\n\nCommunication, navigation and surveillance (CNS) are the main functions that form the infrastructure for air traffic management,\n<ref name=\"CNS/ATM\"></ref> and ensure that air traffic is safe and efficient.\n\nThe CNS has the following three main functions.\n\nCommunication, i.e. aviation communication, refers to radio communication between two or more aircraft, or the exchange of data or verbal information between aircraft and air traffic control. For continental airspace, VHF (civil) and UHF (military) systems are used whereas for oceanic areas, high frequency systems and SATCOMs are used.\n\nNavigation, i.e. air navigation, refers to the process of planning, recording, and controlling the movement of an aircraft from one place to another by providing accurate, reliable and seamless position determination capability.\n\nSurveillance systems are used by air traffic control to determine the position of aircraft. There are two types of surveillance systems:\n\nCooperative systems (a.k.a. dependent surveillance): Under this form of surveillance, systems on the ground (such as SSR) communicate with equipment (such as transponders) on board the aircraft to determine the position and other details of the aircraft. Aircraft information, which may include position from GNSS or other means is determined on board and then transmitted to ATC in response to interrogation. Other cooperative systems such as ADS-B rely on aircraft transmitting their position and other information without interrogation from the ground.\n\nNon-cooperative systems (a.k.a. independent surveillance): Under this form of surveillance, systems on the ground (such as PSR) are able to locate the aircraft and measure its position from the ground by transmitting pulses of radio waves which reflect off the aircraft's hull.\n"}
{"id": "6453600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6453600", "title": "Dean A. Hrbacek", "text": "Dean A. Hrbacek\n\nDean A. Hrbacek, CPA is an American attorney and Republican politician who served as the mayor of Sugar Land, Texas from 1996 to 2002. Before serving in that capacity, he served as a city council member. In 2008, he ran unsuccessfully for the Republican nomination in Texas's 22nd congressional district.\n\nHrbacek attended the University of Houston at Clear Lake City and graduated with a bachelor's degree in accounting. He then attended the University of Houston where he received his Doctor of Jurisprudence degree from the University of Houston Law Center. Hrbacek is an attorney and a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). He has a law firm specializing in taxation, based in Sugar Land.\n\nIn 1996, while serving as a City Council member for Sugar Land's affluent District Four, which included a large part of the First Colony master-planned community including Sweetwater Country Club (the one-time home of the LPGA), Hrbacek decided to run for the mayor's office being vacated by incumbent Lee Duggan who was term limited from seeking re-election after serving a total of ten years. Sugar Land city officials are subject to four terms of two years each, which totals eight years of service, though a member may run for mayor after serving on Council.\n\nHrbacek won the election and was re-elected for two subsequent terms. During the time that Hrbacek served as mayor and on City Council, Sugar Land was recognized and received multiple times for the quality of its management and innovative governance. The once sleepy company town grew into one of Houston's largest and most affluent suburbs as the city annexed several portions of First Colony, a large master-planned community that now comprises the vast majority of Sugar Land's southern area.\n\nThe development of the Sugar Land Town Square, seen as a strong economic engine for Sugar Land, began during the late 1990s with Hrbacek playing a major role in the development of the project. The establishment of the University of Houston System at Sugar Land, the creation of several regional parks, major economic growth, and the lowering the city property tax rate by over 30% were all highlights of his time in office.\n\nIn 2002, Hrbacek faced a tough re-election campaign for a fourth term against City Council member David Wallace, a businessman who had built up a base of support and had just been elected to the same City Council district Hrbacek held before becoming mayor. Wallace won the election after receiving the backing of several Republican leaders with whom he was allied in Fort Bend County and a local newspaper.\n\nHrbacek's re-election bid was damaged by former conservative Houston radio talk show host Jon Matthews. Matthews hosted a radio talk show on KSEV. He endorsed Wallace and attacked Hrbacek through weekly newspaper columns in a local paper. \n\nMatthews referred to Hrbacek as \"Mayor Osama\" and \"Dean Osama Hrbacek\", a reference to terrorist, al-Qaida leader and suspected 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden. Columns attacking Hrbacek by both Mathews and the publisher of the paper, along with radio attacks, were made during the weeks before the May 2002 election campaign. \nFollowing the election, Hrbacek filed a lawsuit against Matthews and the newspaper publisher, B.K. Carter, over the comments, which claimed that the comments also damaged the reputation of Hrbacek's law firm. The lawsuit, filed in Fort Bend County District Court, Case ID 02-CV-127119, was dismissed.\n\nHrbacek has served as a precinct chair for the Fort Bend County Republican Party, and has become one of the more high-profile precinct chairs in the county Republican establishment. Hrbacek has also served as the President of the Fort Bend Republican Club., and also served as a delegate and caucus official at Senatorial District and State Republican Conventions since 2000.\n\nHrbacek was approached in 2006 by community leaders to consider running for the heavily Republican 26th District in the Texas House of Representatives, which comprises Sugar Land and several immediate areas such as the portion of the First Colony planned community in Missouri City. He decided that he would run at that time only if the incumbent Republican, Charlie Howard, chose not to run. When Howard indicated he would run in 2006, Hrbacek dropped out of the race.\n\nHrbacek served as a Precinct Chair delegate representing Fort Bend in the nomination process for the Republican write-in candidate to challenge Democratic ex-Congressman Nick Lampson and Libertarian Bob Smither in the general election to replace former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay. On April 3, 2006, DeLay decided not to seek re-election following an indictment related to campaign finances by District Attorney, Ronnie Earle, in Travis County. (As of February 2008, the case against DeLay is still pending.)\n\nHrbacek was among the majority of Fort Bend Precinct Chairs who rejected efforts by Sugar Land Mayor David Wallace to become the Republican nominee in 2006. Republican precinct chairs from four counties, including Harris, Brazoria, and Galveston in addition to Fort Bend, later nominated dermatologist and Houston city councilwoman Shelley Sekula-Gibbs as a candidate in 2006. She won a special election to fill the remainder of DeLay's term but lost in the write in campaign for the general election by 10 points to Lampson who was on the ballot.\n\nFollowing Nick Lampson's 2006 victory, Hrbacek was strongly encouraged to run against Lampson, given the latter's vulnerability in a heavily Republican district due to its strongly conservative nature. In fact, it was the most conservative district in the country that fell to a Democrat, having given George W. Bush a 2-to-1 margin of victory over Democratic candidate John Kerry in 2004.\n\nOn October 4, 2007, Hrbacek formally announced his candidacy for Congress.\n\nHrbacek has been endorsed by the \"Houston Chronicle\", which praised his record as mayor and his support for expanded rail transit. He was also endorsed by the \"Fort Bend Independent\".\n\nHrbacek's campaign has also been endorsed by a large number of grassroots leaders including over 40 precinct chairs and current and former elected officials across the district. Included among them are: State Republican Executive Committeewoman (SREC) District 17 - Terese Raia, Former SREC District 17 Committeeman - Tim Turner, Former Republican Party of Fort Bend County Chairman - Jim Stokes and Former Fort Bend County Judge - Mike Rozell. Former Sugar Land City Councilmembers from across the district have also endorsed Hrbacek. They include former Sugar Land Councilmembers Don Smithers, Brian Gaston and Mike Siweirka along with former Missouri City Councilmember Bob Burton.\n\nAs of February 29, 2008, Hrbacek's campaign is fourth with total fundraising at $266,086. This total includes a loan from Hrbacek to his campaign of $113,000.\n\nIn the October 2007 filing, the Hrbacek Campaign reported net contributions of $109,195 ranking his campaign fourth in 3rd quarter contributions. In the 2007 Year End filing, the Hrbacek campaign reported net contributions of $37,592 which was sixth most for the quarter. In the Pre-Primary filing covering 1 January through February 13, the Hrbacek campaign collected $6,299, which ranked eighth among all candidates filing. \nThe Hrbacek Campaign has made an effort to collect contributions from within the boundaries of Texas Congressional District 22 and with the exception of Political Action Committees, did not accept or solicit large contributions from lobbyists, D.C. insiders and special interests outside of CD 22.\n\nOn January 19, 2008 a mailer containing a photo that was presented as a true image of Hrbacek was in reality a computerized composite of Hrbacek's face and someone else's slimmer figure, in suit and tie, from neck to knee. It made international news.\n\nIn the 2008 Republican primary, Hrbacek collected 10.5 percent of the vote to finish in fifth place.\n\n"}
{"id": "295975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295975", "title": "Default rule", "text": "Default rule\n\nIn legal theory, a default rule is a rule of law that can be overridden by a contract, trust, will, or other legally effective agreement. Contract law, for example, can be divided into two kinds of rules: \"default rules\" and \"mandatory rules.\" Whereas the \"default rules\" can be modified by agreement of the parties, \"mandatory rules\" will be enforced, even if the parties to a contract attempt to override or modify them. One of the most important debates in contract theory concerns the proper role or purpose of default rules.\n\nThe idea of a default rule in contract law is sometimes connected to the notion of a complete contract. In contract theory, a complete contract fully specifies the rights and duties of the parties to the contract for all possible future states of the world. An incomplete contract, therefore, contains gaps. Most contract theorists find that default rules fill in the gaps in what would otherwise be incomplete contracts. This is often stated pragmatically as whether a court will imply terms so as to save a contract from uncertainty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36244628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36244628", "title": "Dmitry Nikolayevich Filippov", "text": "Dmitry Nikolayevich Filippov\n\nDmitry Filippov (August 1, 1944; Yurga, Kemerovo region, RSFSR, Soviet Union – October 13, 1998 St. Petersburg, Russia ) Russian - Soviet statesman, political and public figure, industrialist, since 1974 - a secretary of the Komsomol Central Committee, a member of the Council of Ministers USSR, chief of staff of the construction of Baikal-Amur Railway, chief of staff to develop the West Siberian oil and gas industry since 1978 - also a member of the Presidium of the AUCCTU, with 1986 to 1990 - the secretary - supervisor of the industry of Leningrad and Leningrad region of the Leningrad Regional Committee of the Communist Party, from 1990 to 1993 - the head of the State Tax Inspection in St. Petersburg, from 1993 - the head of some big and reputable financial and industrial groups and public organizations in Russia.\n\nBorn in Yurga, Kemerovo Region, RSFSR, Soviet Union. He graduated from Leningrad Electrotechnical Institute in 1967. After the graduation he worked as a foreman, a technologist, a head of section at \"POSITRON\".\n\n1973–1974 - a secretary of the Leningrad Regional Committee of Komsomol, \nthen - the first secretary of the Leningrad Regional Committee of Komsomol.\n\n1974–1983 - a secretary of the Komsomol Central Committee, a member of the Council of Ministers USSR, chief of staff of construction of Baikal-Amur Railway, chief of staff to develop the West Siberian oil and gas industry.\n\n1975–1983 - the Vice-President of the Soviet-Hungarian friendship society.\n\nfrom 1978 - also a member of the Presidium of the AUCCTU.\n\n1983–1985 - the first secretary of the District Committee Smolninsky of the Communist Party in Leningrad. He was appointed to this position by the direct order of Andropov, Yuri Vladimirovich.\n\n1985–1986 - the head of the light and food industry`s department of the Leningrad Regional Committee of the Communist Party.\n\n1986–1990 - the secretary - supervisor of the industry of Leningrad and Leningrad region) of the Leningrad Regional Committee of the Communist Party.\n\n1984–1990 - a member of City Council of People's Deputies of Leningrad.\n\n1990–1993 - the head of the Russian State Tax Inspection in Saint-Petersburg.\n\n1990–1993 - a member of City Council of People's Deputies of Saint-Petersburg.\n\n12 October 1992, Dmitry Filippov issued an order to establish in the Russian State Tax Inspection in Saint-Petersburg tax administration investigations` department to solve the problems of prevention, detection and suppression of violations of tax laws and regulations, as well as to provide the safety of the inspection and its employees (and then converted to Federal Tax Police Service of the Russian Federation in St. Petersburg). This date became the official birthday of Saint-Petersburg Tax Police (the first Tax Police created in Russia).\n\nIn October 1993, dismissed by order of the head of the Russian State Tax Inspection. The court fully reinstated him in the position and then he dismissed at the own will.\n\nFrom 1993 - the head of a number of large financial and industrial groups and public organizations in Saint-Petersburg and Russia, including the President of the Petersburg Fuel Company (PTC), Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bank \"MENATEP SPb\", a member of the Board of Directors Kirov Plant, Chairman of the Board of Directors \"Rosco Financial Group\", Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Tobolsk Petrochemical Plant, Chairman of the Bankers and Industrialists Council of Saint-Petersburg and others.\n\nOctober 10, 1998 blown up in his apartment building.\n\nOctober 13, 1998 died in the hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "35059927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35059927", "title": "El Cronista", "text": "El Cronista\n\nEl Cronista (\"Spanish: The Reporter\") is a daily business newspaper published in Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nIt was founded by Martin Giménez Antonio and first published as El Cronista Comercial on November 1, 1908. In 1989 the name was changed to \"El Cronista\".\n\nIt was the first business daily newspaper in Argentina. In 1994, it was the first newspaper in Argentina to publish online.\n\nIt is published by Unidad Editorial.\n\n"}
{"id": "2935251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2935251", "title": "Energy industry", "text": "Energy industry\n\nThe energy industry is the totality of all of the industries involved in the production and sale of energy, including fuel extraction, manufacturing, refining and distribution. Modern society consumes large amounts of fuel, and the energy industry is a crucial part of the infrastructure and maintenance of society in almost all countries.\n\nIn particular, the energy industry comprises:\n\nThe use of energy has been a key in the development of the human society by helping it to control and adapt to the environment. Managing the use of energy is inevitable in any functional society. In the industrialized world the development of energy resources has become essential for agriculture, transportation, waste collection, information technology, communications that have become prerequisites of a developed society. The increasing use of energy since the Industrial Revolution has also brought with it a number of serious problems, some of which, such as global warming, present potentially grave risks to the world.\n\nIn some industries, the word \"energy\" is used as a synonym of energy resources, which refer to substances like fuels, petroleum products and electricity in general, because a significant portion of the energy contained in these resources can easily be extracted to serve a useful purpose. After a useful process has taken place, the total energy is conserved, but the ressource itself is not conserved, since a process usually transforms the energy into unusable forms (such as unnecessary or excess heat).\n\nEver since humanity discovered various energy resources available in nature, it has been inventing devices, known as machines, that make life more comfortable by using energy resources. Thus, although the primitive man knew the utility of fire to cook food, the invention of devices like gas burners and microwave ovens has increased the usage of energy for this purpose alone manyfold. The trend is the same in any other field of social activity, be it construction of social infrastructure, manufacturing of fabrics for covering; porting; printing; decorating, for example textiles, air conditioning; communication of information or for moving people and goods (automobiles).\n\nProduction and consumption of energy resources is very important to the global economy. All economic activity requires energy resources, whether to manufacture goods, provide transportation, run computers and other machines.\n\nWidespread demand for energy may encourage competing energy utilities and the formation of retail energy markets. Note the presence of the \"Energy Marketing and Customer Service\" (EMACS) sub-sector.\n\nThe energy sector accounts for 4.6% of outstanding leveraged loans, compared with 3.1% a decade ago, while energy bonds make up 15.7% of the $1.3trillion junk bond market, up from 4.3% over the same period.\n\nSince the cost of energy has become a significant factor in the performance of economy of societies, management of energy resources has become very crucial. Energy management involves utilizing the available energy resources more effectively that is with minimum incremental costs. Many times it is possible to save expenditure on energy without incorporating fresh technology by simple management techniques. Most often energy management is the practice of using energy more efficiently by eliminating energy wastage or to balance justifiable energy demand with appropriate energy supply. The process couples energy awareness with energy conservation.\n\nThe United Nations developed the International Standard Industrial Classification, which is a list of economic and social classifications. There is no distinct classification for an energy industry, because the classification system is based on \"activities\", \"products\", and \"expenditures according to purpose\".\n\nCountries in North America use the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The NAICS sectors #21 and #22 (mining and utilities) might roughly define the energy industry in North America. This classification is used by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.\n\nThe Global Industry Classification Standard used by Morgan Stanley define the energy industry as comprising companies primarily working with oil, gas, coal and consumable fuels, excluding companies working with certain industrial gases.\nAdd also to expand this section: Dow Jones Industrial Average\n\nGovernment encouragement in the form of subsidies and tax incentives for energy-conservation efforts has increasingly fostered the view of conservation as a major function of the energy industry: saving an amount of energy provides economic benefits almost identical to generating that same amount of energy. This is compounded by the fact that the economics of delivering energy tend to be priced for capacity as opposed to average usage. One of the purposes of a smart grid infrastructure is to smooth out demand so that capacity and demand curves align more closely.\nSome parts of the energy industry generate considerable pollution, including toxic and greenhouse gases from fuel combustion, nuclear waste from the generation of nuclear power, and oil spillages as a result of petroleum extraction. Government regulations to internalize these externalities form an increasing part of doing business, and the trading of carbon credits and pollution credits on the free market may also result in energy-saving and pollution-control measures becoming even more important to energy providers.\n\nConsumption of energy resources, (e.g. turning on a light) requires resources and has an effect on the environment. Many electric power plants burn coal, oil or natural gas in order to generate electricity for energy needs. While burning these fossil fuels produces a readily available and instantaneous supply of electricity, it also generates air pollutants including carbon dioxide (CO), sulfur dioxide and trioxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Carbon dioxide is an important greenhouse gas which is thought to be responsible for some fraction of the rapid increase in climate change seen especially in the temperature records in the 20th century, as compared with tens of thousands of years worth of temperature records which can be read from ice cores taken in Arctic regions. Burning fossil fuels for electricity generation also releases trace metals such as beryllium, cadmium, chromium, copper, manganese, mercury, nickel, and silver into the environment, which also act as pollutants.\n\nThe large-scale use of renewable energy technologies would \"greatly mitigate or eliminate a wide range of environmental and human health impacts of energy use\". Renewable energy technologies include biofuels, solar heating and cooling, hydroelectric power, solar power, and wind power. Energy conservation and the efficient use of energy would also help.\n\nIn addition, it is argued that there is also the potential to develop a more efficient energy sector. This can be done by:\nBest available technology (BAT) offers supply-side efficiency levels far higher than global averages. The relative benefits of gas compared to coal are influenced by the development of increasingly efficient energy production methods. According to an impact assessment carried out for the European Commission, the levels of energy efficiency of coal-fired plants built have now increased to 46-49% efficiency rates, as compared to coals plants built before the 1990s (32-40%). However, at the same time gas can reach 58-59% efficiency levels with the best available technology. Meanwhile, combined heat and power can offer efficiency rates of 80-90%.\n\nSince now energy plays an essential role in industrial societies, the ownership and control of energy resources plays an increasing role in politics. At the national level, governments seek to influence the sharing (distribution) of energy resources among various sections of the society through pricing mechanisms; or even who owns resources within their borders. They may also seek to influence the use of energy by individuals and business in an attempt to tackle environmental issues.\n\nThe most recent international political controversy regarding energy resources is in the context of the Iraq Wars. Some political analysts maintain that the hidden reason for both 1991 and 2003 wars can be traced to strategic control of international energy resources. Others counter this analysis with the numbers related to its economics. According to the latter group of analysts, U.S. has spent about $336 billion in Iraq as compared with a background current value of $25 billion per year budget for the entire U.S. oil import dependence\n\nEnergy policy is the manner in which a given entity (often governmental) has decided to address issues of energy development including energy production, distribution and consumption. The attributes of energy policy may include legislation, international treaties, incentives to investment, guidelines for energy conservation, taxation and other public policy techniques.\n\nEnergy security is the intersection of national security and the availability of natural resources for energy consumption. Access to cheap energy has become essential to the functioning of modern economies. However, the uneven distribution of energy supplies among countries has led to significant vulnerabilities. Threats to energy security include the political instability of several energy producing countries, the manipulation of energy supplies, the competition over energy sources, attacks on supply infrastructure, as well as accidents, natural disasters, the funding to foreign dictators, rising terrorism, and dominant countries reliance to the foreign oil supply. The limited supplies, uneven distribution, and rising costs of fossil fuels, such as oil and gas, create a need to change to more sustainable energy sources in the foreseeable future. With as much dependence that the U.S. currently has for oil and with the peaking limits of oil production; economies and societies will begin to feel the decline in the resource that we have become dependent upon. Energy security has become one of the leading issues in the world today as oil and other resources have become as vital to the world's people. However, with oil production rates decreasing and oil production peak nearing the world has come to protect what resources we have left in the world. With new advancements in renewable resources less pressure has been put on companies that produce the world's oil, these resources are, geothermal, solar power, wind power and hydro-electric. Although these are not all the current and possible future options for the world to turn to as the oil depletes the most important issue is protecting these vital resources from future threats. These new resources will become more useful as the price of exporting and importing oil will increase due to increase of demand.\n\nProducing energy to sustain human needs is an essential social activity, and a great deal of effort goes into the activity. While most of such effort is limited towards increasing the production of electricity and oil, newer ways of producing usable energy resources from the available energy resources are being explored. One such effort is to explore means of producing hydrogen fuel from water. Though hydrogen use is environmentally friendly, its production requires energy and existing technologies to make it, are not very efficient. Research is underway to explore enzymatic decomposition of biomass.\n\nOther forms of conventional energy resources are also being used in new ways. Coal gasification and liquefaction are recent technologies that are becoming attractive after the realization that oil reserves, at present consumption rates, may be rather short lived. See alternative fuels.\n\nEnergy is the subject of significant research activities globally. For example, the UK Energy Research Centre is the focal point for UK energy research while the European Union has many technology programmes as well as a platform for engaging social science and humanities within energy research.\n\nAll societies require materials and food to be transported over \"distances\", generally against some \"force\" of friction. Since application of force over distance requires the presence of a source of usable energy, such sources are of great worth in society.\n\nWhile energy resources are an essential ingredient for all modes of transportation in society, the transportation of energy resources is becoming equally important. Energy resources are frequently located far from the place where they are consumed. Therefore, their transportation is always in question. Some energy resources like liquid or gaseous fuels are transported using tankers or pipelines, while electricity transportation invariably requires a network of grid cables. The transportation of energy, whether by tanker, pipeline, or transmission line, poses challenges for scientists and engineers, policy makers, and economists to make it more risk-free and efficient.\n\nEconomic and political instability can lead to an energy crisis. Notable oil crises are the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 oil crisis. The advent of peak oil, the point in time when the maximum rate of global petroleum extraction is reached, will likely precipitate another energy crisis.\n\nBetween 1985 and 2018 there have been around 69,932 deals in the energy sector. This cumulates to an overall value of 9,578 bil USD. The most active year was 2010 with about 3.761 deals. In terms of value 2007 was the strongest year (684 bil. USD), which was followed by a steep decline until 2009 (-55,8%).\n\nHere is a list of the top 10 deals in history in the energy sector:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31562950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31562950", "title": "Fatema Akbari", "text": "Fatema Akbari\n\nFatema Akbari () is an Afghan entrepreneur and women's advocate who is founder of the Gulistan Sadaqat Company and non-governmental organization the Women Affairs Council. In 2011 she received the 10,000 Women Entrepreneurial Achievement Award.\n\nFatema Akbari was driven into carpentry by necessity as a means of supporting her children following the death of her husband in 1999, originally working on building sites in Iran, where her family fled when the Taliban took control of Afghanistan. In 2003 she returned to homeland and started furniture manufacturing business by establishing Gulistan Sadaqat Company in Kabul with a carpentry school. She attempted to provide a workforce base as a means of earning to wives of men killed or disabled during conflict in Afghanistan. In 2009 she enrolled in the Goldman Sachs-sponsored 10,000 Women program at the American University of Afghanistan, a program aimed at training women from developing countries in business and management.\n\nIn expanding her operations and women's literacy classes, Akbari has been able to work in Taliban-controlled areas though negotiations with local leaders and has commented \"It would be good for the Taliban to be involved in the country, to see that there’s nothing wrong with women leaving the house.\"\n\nIn 2004, Fatema Akbari founded Afghanistan NGO the Women Affairs Council to train women in handicrafts in addition to educating both sexes about human rights. Between the NGO and her own business, it was estimated that as of 2011 she had trained 5,610 people across Afghanistan.\n\nOn 12 April 2011 Akbari was honoured with the 10,000 Women Entrepreneurial Achievement Award at the Global Leadership Awards. In presenting, Vital Voices commended her\"for her work to empower other Afghan women — through the training and employment provided by her carpentry business, and through the literacy and skills training provided by her non-governmental organization (NGO) to women in Taliban-controlled areas.\"\n\nDuring 30–31 March 2011, Akbari was a panel member at a 2-day conference in Dallas, Texas convened by former United States President George W. Bush and Afghan President Hamid Karzai entitled \"Building Afghanistan’s Future: Promoting Women’s Freedom and Advancing Their Economic Opportunity\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "485340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=485340", "title": "Francis Biddle", "text": "Francis Biddle\n\nFrancis Beverley Biddle (May 19, 1886October 4, 1968) was an American lawyer and judge who was Attorney General of the United States during World War II and who served as the primary American judge during the postwar Nuremberg trials.\n\nBiddle was born in Paris, France, while his family was living abroad. He was one of four sons of Frances Brown (née Robinson) and Algernon Sydney Biddle, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania of the Biddle family. \n\nHe was also a great-great-grandson of Edmund Randolph (1753–1813) the seventh Governor of Virginia, the second Secretary of State, and the first United States Attorney General, and a half second cousin four times removed of the 4th President of the United States James Madison. He graduated from Groton School, where he participated in boxing. He earned degrees from Harvard University in 1909 (A.B.) and 1911 (law degree).\n\nHe first worked as a private secretary to Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. from 1911 to 1912. He spent the next 27 years practicing law in Philadelphia. In 1912, he supported the presidential candidacy of former U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt's renegade Bull Moose Party. He was also served briefly during World War I as a private the United States Army from October 23 to November 30, 1918. He served as special assistant to the U.S. attorney of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania from 1922 to 1926.\n\nBeginning in the 1930s, Biddle was appointed to a number of important governmental roles. In 1934, President Franklin D. Roosevelt nominated him to be chairman of the National Labor Relations Board. On February 9, 1939, Roosevelt nominated Biddle to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, to a seat vacated by Joseph Buffington. Biddle was confirmed by the United States Senate on February 28, 1939, and received his commission on March 4, 1939. He only served one year before resigning on January 22, 1940, to become the United States Solicitor General. This also turned out to be a short-lived position when Roosevelt nominated him to the position of Attorney General of the United States in 1941. During this time he was also chief counsel to the Special Congressional Committee to Investigate the Tennessee Valley Authority, from 1938 to 1939, and director of Immigration and Naturalization Service at the U.S. Department of Justice in 1940.\n\nDuring World War II, Biddle used the Espionage Act of 1917 to attempt to shut down 'vermin publications'. This included Father Coughlin's publication entitled \"Social Justice\". Biddle has also been \"credited\" with the creation of what became known later as the \"Attorney General's List of Subversive Organizations\"; in fact, this list was originally known as \"The Biddle List\". In the Biddle List, eleven front groups originating in the Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA) were singled out as being \"subversive\" and under the control of the Soviet Union. Unlike the later, more infamous Attorney General's List of Subversive Organizations, which contained both left and right-wing organizations, the Biddle List contained only left-wing organizations as well as civil rights organizations tied to the CPUSA.\n\n\nIn 1942, Biddle was involved in a case where eight captured Nazi agents were tried by a military tribunal appointed by President Roosevelt for espionage and planning sabotage in the United States as part of Operation Pastorius. Lieutenant Colonel Kenneth Royall challenged Roosevelt's decision to prosecute the Germans in military tribunals, citing \"Ex parte Milligan\" (1866), a case in which the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the federal government could not establish military tribunals to try civilians in areas where civilian courts were functioning, even during wartimes. Biddle responded that the Germans were not entitled to have access to civilian courts due to their status as unlawful combatants. This decision was upheld in \"Ex parte Quirin\" (1942) where the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the military commission created to try the Germans was lawful. On August 3, 1942, all eight were found guilty and sentenced to death. Five days later, six of the eight were executed in the electric chair on the third floor of the District of Columbia jail. The other two were given prison terms as they willingly turned over their comrades to the FBI. In 1948, both men were released from prison and returned to Germany.\n\nAlthough Biddle opposed Japanese-American internment during the war, he succumbed to \"political expediency\" and eventually supported the policy, and was haunted by it for years afterward. However, Biddle strengthened his department's efforts on behalf of African American civil rights by instructing United States attorneys to direct their prosecutions against forced labor in the South away from the usual practice of charging \"peonage,\" which required them to find an element of debt, and toward bringing charges of \"slavery\" and \"involuntary servitude\" against employers and local officials.\n\nAt President Harry S. Truman's request, he resigned after Roosevelt's death. Shortly after, Truman appointed Biddle as a judge at the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg. Tom Clark, Biddle's successor, told the story that Biddle, who wore spats, was the first government official whose resignation Truman sought, and that it was quite a difficult task. Biddle was amused by Truman's stammering, but after it was over, he threw his arm around the President and said, \"See, Harry, now that wasn't so hard.\"\n\nIn 1947, he was nominated by Truman as the American representative on the United Nations Economic and Social Council. However, after the Republican Party refused to act on the nomination, Biddle asked Truman to withdraw his name.\n\nIn 1950, he was named as chairman of the Americans for Democratic Action, a position he held for three years; then one decade later, wrote two volumes of memoirs: \"A Casual Past\" in 1961 and \"In Brief Authority\" the following year. His final position came as chairman of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial Commission, which he resigned in 1965.\n\nOn April 27, 1918, Biddle was married to the poet Katherine Garrison Chapin. They had two sons:\nHe died on October 4, 1968, of a heart attack at his summer home in Wellfleet, Massachusetts, on Cape Cod, at the age of 82. Biddle was buried in Christ Church Cemetery in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nBiddle's writing skills had long been in evidence prior to the release of his memoirs. In 1927, he wrote a novel about Philadelphia society, \"The Llanfear Pattern\". In 1942, he wrote of his close association with Oliver Wendell Holmes 30 years earlier with a biography of the jurist, \"Mr. Justice Holmes\", which was adapted into a Broadway play and a motion picture entitled \"The Magnificent Yankee\". \"Democratic Thinking and the War\", was published in 1944. His 1949 book, \"The World's Best Hope\", looked at the role of the United States in the post-war era. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1963.\n\nBiddle was the subject of the 2004 play \"Trying\" by Joanna McClelland Glass, who had served as Biddle's personal secretary from 1967 to 1968.\n\n"}
{"id": "26777243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26777243", "title": "Frederick Lawton", "text": "Frederick Lawton\n\nFrederick Joseph \"Fred\" Lawton (November 11, 1900 – 1975) was an American bureaucrat who served as the ninth Director of the Bureau of the Budget. Lawton was born in Washington, D.C., and became a lawyer and an accountant. He spent most of his professional career working with the government bureaucracy. He helped President Franklin D. Roosevelt wager with members of Congress to support the Fair Labor Standards Act. He first joined the Office of Management and Budget as an executive assistant in 1935. He also served as an adviser to Congress. In 1947, he became an administrative assistant to President Harry S. Truman. He was appointed to the post of Director of the Bureau of the Budget in 1950, and held the position until 1953. President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed Lawton to a term on the United States Civil Service Commission after he left the Bureau; he served from 1953 to 1963.\n\nHis economic policy consisted of making budget cuts among various departments of the federal government. One of his primary contributions was in helping to re-design the Bureau of Internal Revenue, action which led to the creation of the Internal Revenue Service. Lawton advocated a civil service, rather than a patronage system for tax agents. He opposed a number of plans in Congress, including a fair trade bill and attempts to decentralize the federal offices in Washington, D.C. to other areas of the country.\n\nLawton was born in Washington, D.C. on November 11, 1900, and lived there throughout his life. He graduated from Georgetown University in 1920. Professionally, Lawton was a lawyer and an accountant. He was a registered Democrat for much of his life. He was married to the former Cecilia Walsh of Sussex County, New Jersey and had three children; Richard Lawton, an ARAMCO oil executive, Mary C. Lawton, Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the US and Kathleen Lawton Kenna, a Department of the Army senior executive Civilian Personnel Officer.\n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt used Lawton to build support Fair Labor Standards Act in the United States Congress. Roosevelt instructed him to go to a hotel room, where Roosevelt would send various members of Congress to visit. Once there, Lawton was to put into the budget whatever pork barrel projects the Congressmen required in order to buy a supporting vote for the bill.\n\nLawton first meet President Harry S. Truman in 1938, during the consideration of the Roosevelt Reorganization Act in the United States Senate, in the cloakroom of the United States Capitol. He only had one professional interaction with Truman before his Presidency, over the Canol Road project.\n\nLawton first joined the Office of Management and Budget as an executive assistant in 1935. During this time, he also appeared as a consultant and adviser to the Senate's Select Committee on Government Organization. Lawton landed the job of adviser to the Senate Select Committee when the Senate asked for a liaison and expert from the Budget Bureau; Lawton himself speculated that he received the job because his post did not have specific estimates assigned to it, leaving him free for new duties. At the time of the assignment, he had been heading the Budget Bureau's Financial Records Division. However, after the federal budget was submitted to Congress every year, Lawton's job mainly consisted of various \"spot jobs\" and loans to other organizations.\n\nHe served as an executive assistant until 1947, when he became an administrative assistant to President Harry S. Truman. In 1949, after one year as an administrative assistant, he became the assistant director of the Bureau of the Budget, taking the position vacated by Frank Pace when he became the Director of the Bureau. He served as the Director of the Bureau from 1950 to 1953. He received the job again upon vacation of Frank Pace, who was appointed the United States Secretary of the Army. Eisenhower awarded him the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service in 1961 for his years of service in the federal government.\n\nAs Director, Lawton worked to cut departmental expenses in the federal budget. However, as assistant director, he argued strongly against calls from Congress for large-scale budget cuts, claiming that such a thing would not be possible because of \"fixed\" expenses like paying down the public debt and giving promised veteran's benefits. In the end, Lawton, under order of Congress, cut more than $500 million in operating costs within the government.\n\nLawton called for reform within the Bureau of Internal Revenue, claiming that its \"magnitude and complexity\" required an overhaul. His advocacy led the Bureau to be renamed the Internal Revenue Service, and a reorganization of the Bureau which established agents as career civil servants, rather than using the patronage system.\n\nLawton most often backed the policies of Truman. He joined with Truman in fighting a fair trade bill in Congress. Lawton supported a requested merger of Pan American World Airways and American Overseas Airlines, a plan that Truman initially opposed, but then passed over the recommendation of the Civil Aeronautics Board. Lawton vocally opposed plans to decentralize the federal offices in Washington, D.C., spreading them throughout the country so that an enemy attack would not cripple the entire national government. Lawton argued that there was a shortage of office space around the country that made the plans impossible to implement. Lawton often removed himself from debates, treating his job as a technical and administrative one. While he advocated fiscal restraint, he mostly found ways of carrying out Truman's policies, rather than arguing for them. He sought less publicity than his predecessors.\n\nWhen President Dwight D. Eisenhower took office, Lawton remained skeptical that the Republican President could cut much money from the budget without completely overhauling then-current government programs. Despite this, Lawton played an active role in preparing his successor Joseph Dodge for his assignment.\n\nAfter leaving the Bureau of Budget, Lawton became a member of the United States Civil Service Commission. Eisenhower nominated Lawton for the position, to fill the Democrat commission position vacated by Frances Perkins. He was appointed to a six-year term, but ultimately served from 1953 to 1963. L. J. Andolesk succeeded him in 1963. Lawton died in 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "2878740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2878740", "title": "Fredrik Stefan Eaton", "text": "Fredrik Stefan Eaton\n\nFredrik Stefan Eaton, OC, O.Ont (born June 26, 1938) is a Canadian businessman and former diplomat who is a member of the prominent Eaton family. He is the great-grandson of Eaton's department store founder Timothy Eaton.\n\nHe was born in Toronto to John David Eaton and Signy Steffanson Eaton, and he was raised in the Forest Hill area. He has three brothers: John Craig Eaton, George Ross Eaton, and Thor Edgar Eaton.\n\nIn 1962, Eaton received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of New Brunswick and started working as salesman at Eaton's in British Columbia. From 1977 to 1988, he was the chairman, president and CEO of Eaton's.\n\nHe served as Canadian High Commissioner to the United Kingdom from 1991 to 1994. In 1993, he was appointed Chancellor of the University of New Brunswick and served for two terms of five years.\n\nHe is married to Catherine \"Nicky\" Eaton and has two children: Fredrik D'Arcy Eaton, who lives in Toronto and is head of the \"Catherine and Fredrik Eaton Charitable Foundation\", and Flora Catherine Eaton Coakley, who lives in New York City.\n\nEaton and his family live in a townhouse in Toronto and own a country estate in Caledon, Ontario, a cottage on Georgian Bay, and a winter home in Florida. He is one of the most public members of the Eaton Family, and he attends social events and endows many institutions philanthropically.\n\nIn 1990, Eaton was made an Officer of the Order of Canada for having \"contributed to many aspects of Canadian life. Through his leadership in a variety of organizations, in fields as diverse as those of business, education, nature, health care and the arts, he is continuing his family's tradition of exemplary service to the public.\" In 2001, he was awarded the Order of Ontario for his \"contributions in numerous areas including health care and the arts\".\n"}
{"id": "2402549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2402549", "title": "George Heller", "text": "George Heller\n\nGeorge Heller is a Canadian businessperson. He was the president and CEO of Hudson's Bay Company from 1999 to 2006, when the company was acquired by Jerry Zucker. He continued to serve as Senior Director of the Board until late 2008.\n\nHe was President and CEO of the Victoria, British Columbia. Commonwealth Games Committee, which organized the 1994 XV Commonwealth Games. In 1995, he became President for North America and Europe of Bata Industries Ltd. He became President and CEO of Kmart's Canadian unit in 1997. In February 1998, he became President and CEO of Zellers and Executive Vice President of Hudson's Bay Company.\n\nHeller has Honorary Doctorates from the University of Victoria and Ryerson University. He was awarded the Meritorious Service Medal from the Government of Canada for service to his country. Recently elected to the Canadian Retail Hall of Fame, Heller is also a Board Member and Chair of the Investment Committee, Asia Pacific Foundation in Vancouver. He serves on several Boards, including Gildan Activewear.\nIn August 2014, he was presented the Governor General's Sovereign Medal. He was appointed Honorary Consul General of Thailand in 2007 and has served as Honorary Trade Advisor to the Government of Thailand since 2000.\nIn 2013, he was awarded the Jan Masaryk Silver Medal by the Government of the Czech Republic.\nIn September 2016, he was appointed as Commander, Most Noble Order of the Crown of Thailand by the Government of Thailand.\n\n"}
{"id": "6987871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6987871", "title": "Governance, risk management, and compliance", "text": "Governance, risk management, and compliance\n\nGovernance, risk management and compliance (GRC) is the umbrella term covering an organization's approach across these three areas: Governance, risk management, and compliance. The first scholarly research on GRC was published in 2007 where GRC was formally defined as \"the integrated collection of capabilities that enable an organization to reliably achieve objectives, address uncertainty and act with integrity.\" The research referred to common \"keep the company on track\" activities conducted in departments such as internal audit, compliance, risk, legal, finance, IT, HR as well as the lines of business, executive suite and the board itself.\n\nGovernance, risk management, and compliance are three related facets that help assure an organization reliably achieves objectives, addresses uncertainty and acts with integrity. Governance is the combination of processes established and executed by the directors (or the board of directors) that are reflected in the organization's structure and how it is managed and led toward achieving goals. Risk management is predicting and managing risks that could hinder the organization from reliably achieving its objectives under uncertainty. Compliance refers to adhering with the mandated boundaries (laws and regulations) and voluntary boundaries (company's policies, procedures, etc.).\n\nGRC is a discipline that aims to synchronize information and activity across governance, and compliance in order to operate more efficiently, enable effective information sharing, more effectively report activities and avoid wasteful overlaps. Although interpreted differently in various organizations, GRC typically encompasses activities such as corporate governance, enterprise risk management (ERM) and corporate compliance with applicable laws and regulations.\n\nOrganizations reach a size where coordinated control over GRC activities is required to operate effectively. Each of these three disciplines creates information of value to the other two, and all three impact the same technologies, people, processes and information.\n\nSubstantial duplication of tasks evolves when governance, risk management and compliance are managed independently. Overlapping and duplicated GRC activities negatively impact both operational costs and GRC matrices. For example, each internal service might be audited and assessed by multiple groups on an annual basis, creating enormous cost and disconnected results. A disconnected GRC approach will also prevent an organization from providing real-time GRC executive reports. GRC supposes that this approach, like a badly planned transport system, every individual route will operate, but the network will lack the qualities that allow them to work together effectively.\n\nIf not integrated, if tackled in a traditional \"silo\" approach, most organizations must sustain unmanageable numbers of GRC-related requirements due to changes in technology, increasing data storage, market globalization and increased regulation.\n\n\nA GRC program can be instituted to focus on any individual area within the enterprise, or a fully integrated GRC is able to work across all areas of the enterprise, using a single framework.\n\nA fully integrated GRC uses a single core set of control material, mapped to all of the primary governance factors being monitored. The use of a single framework also has the benefit of reducing the possibility of duplicated remedial actions.\n\nWhen reviewed as individual GRC areas, the three most common individual headings are considered to be Financial GRC, IT GRC, and Legal GRC.\n\n\nAnalysts disagree on how these aspects of GRC are defined as market categories. Gartner has stated that the broad GRC market includes the following areas:\n\nThey further divide the IT GRC management market into these key capabilities. Although this list relates to IT GRC, a similar list of capabilities would be suitable for other areas of GRC.\n\nThe distinctions between the sub-segments of the broad GRC market are often not clear. With a large number of vendors entering this market recently, determining the best product for a given business problem can be challenging. Given that the analysts don’t fully agree on the market segmentation, vendor positioning can increase the confusion.\n\nDue to the dynamic nature of this market, any vendor analysis is often out of date relatively soon after its publication.\n\nBroadly, the vendor market can be considered to exist in 3 segments:\n\n\nIntegrated GRC solutions attempt to unify the management of these areas, rather than treat them as separate entities. An integrated solution is able to administer one central library of compliance controls, but manage, monitor and present them against every governance factor. For example, in a domain specific approach, three or more findings could be generated against a single broken activity. The integrated solution recognizes this as one break relating to the mapped governance factors.\n\nDomain specific GRC vendors understand the cyclical connection between governance, risk and compliance within a particular area of governance. For example, within financial processing — that a risk will either relate to the absence of a control (need to update governance) and/or the lack of adherence to (or poor quality of) an existing control. An initial goal of splitting out GRC into a separate market has left some vendors confused about the lack of movement. It is thought that a lack of deep education within a domain on the audit side, coupled with a mistrust of audit in general causes a rift in a corporate environment. However, there are vendors in the marketplace that, while remaining domain-specific, have begun marketing their product to end users and departments that, while either tangential or overlapping, have expanded to include the internal corporate internal audit (CIA) and external audit teams (tier 1 big four AND tier two and below), information security and operations/production as the target audience. This approach provides a more 'open book' approach into the process. If the production team will be audited by CIA using an application that production also has access to, is thought to reduce risk more quickly as the end goal is not to be 'compliant' but to be 'secure,' or as secure as possible.\n\nPoint solutions to GRC are marked by their focus on addressing only one of its areas. In some cases of limited requirements, these solutions can serve a viable purpose. However, because they tend to have been designed to solve domain specific problems in great depth, they generally do not take a unified approach and are not tolerant of integrated governance requirements. Information systems will address these matters better if the requirements for GRC management are incorporated at the design stage, as part of a coherent framework.\n\nGRC vendors with an integrated data framework are now able to offer custom built GRC data warehouse and business intelligence solutions. This allows high value data from any number of existing GRC applications to be collated and analysed.\n\nThe aggregation of GRC data using this approach adds significant benefit in the early identification of risk and business process (and business control) improvement.\n\nFurther benefits to this approach include (i) it allows existing, specialist and high value applications to continue without impact (ii) organizations can manage an easier transition into an integrated GRC approach because the initial change is only adding to the reporting layer and (iii) it provides a real-time ability to compare and contrast data value across systems that previously had no common data scheme.'\n\nA publication review carried out in 2009 found that there was hardly any scientific research on GRC. The authors went on to derive the first GRC short-definition from an extensive literature review. Subsequently, the definition was validated in a survey among GRC professionals. \"GRC is an integrated, holistic approach to organisation-wide GRC ensuring that an organisation acts ethically correct and in accordance with its risk appetite, internal policies and external regulations through the alignment of strategy, processes, technology and people, thereby improving efficiency and effectiveness.\" The authors then translated the definition into a frame of reference for GRC research.\n\nEach of the core disciplines – Governance, Risk Management and Compliance – consists of the four basic \"components\": strategy, processes, technology and people.\nThe organisation's risk appetite, its internal policies and external regulations constitute the \"rules\" of GRC. The disciplines, their components and rules are now to be merged in an integrated, holistic and organisation-wide (the three main \"characteristics\" of GRC) manner – aligned with the (business) operations that are managed and supported through GRC. In applying this approach, organisations long to achieve the \"objectives\": ethically correct behaviour, and improved efficiency and effectiveness of any of the elements involved.\n"}
{"id": "45357528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45357528", "title": "Gustavs Ērenpreis", "text": "Gustavs Ērenpreis\n\nGustavs Ērenpreis (5 September 1891 – 19 May 1956) was a Latvian-born manufacturer of bicycles best known as recipient of the Order of the Three Stars and Cross of Recognition, and as a founder and director of Gustavs Ērenpreis Bicycle Factory, which in the 1930s was the largest manufacturer of bicycles in the Baltic states. Ērenpreis's bicycles were ridden by a generation of elite bicycle racers in Latvia.\n\nGustavs Ērenpreis was the son of Valtenberģi Manor coachman Lībijs and Anna. He was born in Vatenberģi (today, Mazsalaca city), Latvia which at that time was in the Russian Empire. Ērenpreis was educated at a trade school in Riga.\nHe was married twice and had one child from the first marriage - a son Jānis, and four children from the second marriage - a son Juris and three daughters - Anita, Maija and Sarmīte.\n\nGustavs Ērenpreis was decorated with the Order of the Three Stars medal, the highest order of the Republic of Latvia, and the Cross of Recognition of the Republic of Latvia.\n\nAfter the nationalization of the bicycle USSR, Gustavs emigrated to West Germany where he worked in sawmill. He never returned to his homeland Latvia and died after an illness in Detmold, Germany. He was buried in Augsdorf.\n\nAfter graduation of trade school in Riga, in 1907 he worked at the Eduards Bērziņš bicycle workshop in Riga, which produced bicycles and repaired and sold English Triumph and Douglas motorcycles in the Baltic states. During World War I he was evacuated with the workshop to Harkov. After the war the workshop equipment could not be recovered, and Gustavs had to return to Riga, Latvia without any equipment.\n\nIn 1921, following the end of the war, Ērenpreis launched his own workshop, where in early years he repaired and sold abandoned military transports of the Bermont army. He moved into manufacturing the following year as the \"G. Ērenpreis Motorcycle and Bicycle Workshop\", where he first manufactured his own bicycles under the \"Baltija\" label.\n\nDue to rapid expansion, the limited space in his workshop had become a problem, and in 1924 the Ērenpreis workshop moved to a larger space. In 1926 Gustavs Ērenpreis and his business partners established a joint-stock company called Omega, but this entity was ultimately abandoned that same year.\n\nThose first manufacturing efforts were preliminary to the actual establishment of a new manufacturing entity called the G. Ērenpreis Bicycle Factory in 1927. The new firm continued in its previous quarters until, in 1931, construction began on a new, modern bicycle factory located on in Brīvības Street. \nJanis Seregins, the biggest bicycle collection owner in Baltics and the author of historic review of Latvian bicycle history \"100 year of bicycle manufacturing in Latvia. From Leutner to Erenpreis\" points out that by 1937 the factory had become the largest manufacturer of bicycles in the Baltic states.\n\nIn addition to being the largest Latvian bicycle manufacture of its day, the G. Ērenpreis bicycle factory was regarded as the source of the highest quality bikes for Latvian competitive cyclists. G. Ērenpreis bicycles were ridden by the top Latvian cyclists of the era, including Olympic cyclists Arvīds Immermanis and Andrejs Apsītis.\n\nUnfortunately, World War II and the occupation of Latvia halted G. Ērenpreis bicycle factory work. The Ērenpreis company was nationalized by the USSR and renamed the \"Red Star Riga Bicycle Factory\" (Rīgas Velosipēdu rūpnīca (RVR) \"Sarkanā Zvaigzne\"). Bicycle production continued at that company until 1963, when the factory was retooled and converted to the production of mopeds. Today G. Ērenpreis bicycles are exhibited at the Riga Motor Museum as part of the country's industrial heritage.\n\nStarting in 2011, Gustavs hometown Mazsalaca has celebrated Gustavs Ērenpreis birthday in the festival \"Velosvētki - Ērenpreisam 124\" (bicycle festival - Ērenpreiss - 124 years old!\")\n\nIn 2012 the brand was revived by Gustavs Ērenpreis' great grandnephew, Toms Ērenpreiss, who manufactures new Ērenpreiss bicycles.\n"}
{"id": "21969902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21969902", "title": "Hamida Banu Shova", "text": "Hamida Banu Shova\n\nHamida Banu Shova is the founder and chairperson of Queens University, Bangladesh. She established this university in 1996.\n\nShova is a former Member of Parliament in Bangladesh. She served as female MP of Electoral Area (Nilphamari-1) from 2001 to 2006 under the banner of the Awami League. She is nominated Assistant Secretaries of Sub-Committee of Bangladesh Awami League.\n"}
{"id": "17913612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17913612", "title": "Henry Regnery", "text": "Henry Regnery\n\nHenry Regnery (January 5, 1912 – June 18, 1996) was an American publisher.\n\nHenry Regnery was born on January 5, 1912 in Hinsdale, Illinois, the next to youngest of five children of Frances Susan Thrasher and William Henry Regnery, a wealthy textile manufacturer. He obtained a degree in mechanical engineering from MIT in 1934, and an M.A. from Harvard University, where he worked with Joseph Schumpeter. He also studied at Armour Institute of Technology, and from 1934 to 1936 at the University of Bonn. Shortly after, he became a member of the America First Committee.\n\nRegnery financed the creation of \"Human Events\" in 1944. His publishing company, the Henry Regnery Company, now known as Regnery Publishing, would go on to publish two conservative classics, William F. Buckley's \"God and Man at Yale\" (1951) and Russell Kirk's \"The Conservative Mind\" (1953).\n\nRegnery was a member of the American Conservatory of Music and the Chicago Literary Club. He was a trustee of Shimer College in the early 1960s. Regnery was the president of the Philadelphia Society.\n\nRegnery died in Chicago on June 18, 1996, of complications of brain surgery. His papers are kept at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University.\n\nHis son is lawyer, author and publisher Alfred S. Regnery.\n\n"}
{"id": "31034833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31034833", "title": "Indian Accounting Standards", "text": "Indian Accounting Standards\n\nIndian Accounting Standard (abbreviated as Ind-AS) is the Accounting standard adopted by companies in India and issued under the supervison of Accounting Standards Board (ASB) which was constituted as a body in the year 1977. ASB is a committee under Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) which consists of representatives from government department, academicians, other professional bodies viz. ICAI, representatives from ASSOCHAM, CII, FICCI, etc.\n\nThe Ind AS are named and numbered in the same way as the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). National Advisory Committee on Accounting Standards (NACAS) recommend these standards to the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA). MCA has to spell out the accounting standards applicable for companies in India. As on date MCA has notified 41 Ind AS. This shall be applied to the companies of financial year 2015-16 voluntarily and from 2016-17 on a mandatory basis.\n\nBased on the international consensus, the regulators will separately notify the date of implementation of Ind-AS for the banks, insurance companies etc. Standards for the computation of Tax has been notified as ICDS in February 2015.\n\nIndia followed accounting standards from Indian Generally Acceptable Accounting Principle (IGAAP) prior to adoption of the Ind-AS.\n\nCompanies shall follow Ind AS either Voluntarily or Mandatorily. Once a company follows Indian AS, either mandatorily or voluntarily, it can't revert to old method of Accounting.\n\n=== Mandatory Applicability (1 April 16)\n\n\nNet worth shall be checked for the previous four Financial Years (2013-14, 2014-15, 2015-16, and 2016-17)\n\nInd-AS is in line with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).\n\nInd-AS 107 deals with disclosures related to financial instruments and related risks and the policies for managing such risks.\n\n"}
{"id": "6979831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6979831", "title": "Instruction creep", "text": "Instruction creep\n\nInstruction creep occurs when instructions increase in number and size over time until they are unmanageable. It can be insidious and damaging to the success of large groups such as corporations, originating from ignorance of the KISS principle and resulting in over-complex (as opposed to \"simplified\") procedures that are often misunderstood, followed with great irritation, or ignored.\n\nInstruction creep is common in complex organizations, where rules and guidelines are created by changing groups of people over extended periods of time. The constant state of flux in such groups often leads them to add or modify instructions, rather than simplifying or consolidating existing ones. This can result in considerable overlap in the message of directives, at the expense of clarity, efficiency, and communication, or even of consistency.\n\nThe fundamental fallacy of instruction creep is believing that people read instructions with the same level of attention and comprehension, regardless of the volume or complexity of those instructions. A byproduct is the advent of many new rules having the deliberate intent to control others via fiat, without considering consensus or collaboration. This tends to antagonize others, even when it appears to the instigators that they are acting with proper intent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7900198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7900198", "title": "John Fentener van Vlissingen", "text": "John Fentener van Vlissingen\n\nJohn Arthur Fentener van Vlissingen (born 4 March 1939 in Utrecht) is a Dutch businessman. He is one of the wealthiest people in the Netherlands and has made major investments in the travel industry. The total capital of the family is, according to \"Quote\" magazine, around 9.2 billion euros. The wealth of Fentener van Vlissingen was calculated to be €1.6 billion in \"Quote 500\".\n\nOf the three brothers (Frits, who died in March 2006, and Paul, who died in August 2006) only John Fentener van Vlissingen's career was not with the family company, SHV Holdings. He began his own company, BCD Holdings N.V., a market leader in the travel industry. \n\nBCD Holdings began as a real estate company in 1975 as Property Management Advisory Services. In 1976, the company was renamed NORO since the name NIRO was already appropriated. In 1986 BCD was founded, after the separation of Noro management advisories and investments by the establishment of BCD. In 1987, WorldTravel Advisors was purchased. In 1999, WorldTravel Advisors merged with BTI Americas to form WorldTravel BTI. In 2006, WorldTravel BTI was renamed BCD Travel with the takeover of the German company, TQ3, and the dissolution of the BTI brand, thus creating the third largest travel company in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1041734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041734", "title": "John Fredriksen", "text": "John Fredriksen\n\nJohn Fredriksen (born 10 May 1944) is a Norwegian-born oil tanker and shipping magnate, who owns the world's largest oil tanker fleet. He also has major interests in the offshore driller Seadrill, the fish farming company Marine Harvest, the dry bulk company Golden Ocean Group, and the supply vessel company Deep Sea Supply. Through his investment companies Hemen Holdings and Meisha, Fredriksen controls the companies Frontline and Golar LNG. In 2010–2011, Frontline owned 9.6 percent of another large tanker company, Overseas Shipholding Group. North Atlantic Drilling, Sevan Drilling, and Asia Offshore Drilling are partly owned by Seadrill.\n\nBorn in Oslo, Norway, Fredriksen is a Cypriot citizen who resides in London. Before abandoning his Norwegian citizenship, he was Norway's richest man. Norwegian magazine \"Kapital\" listed Fredriksen in 2013 with a net worth of NOK 69,75 billion (11.9 billion). In 2012, he was included in the 50 Most Influential list of Bloomberg Markets Magazine. He was named in the top 10 most influential people in the shipping industry according to Lloyds List 2014.\n\nFredriksen was born on 10 May 1944 to a welder and his wife, and grew up in Etterstad in the eastern half of Oslo.\n\nFredriksen is a widower and has two twin daughters: Cecilie and Kathrine Astrup Fredriksen (both born 1983). Fredriksen's former wife, dentist Inger Astrup Fredriksen (died 2006), originally belonged to one of the Astrup families in Norway. Her father was a professor of psychiatry, and her grand uncle was the painter Nikolai Astrup.\n\nFredriksen made his fortune during the Iran–Iraq War in the 1980s, when his tankers picked up oil at great risk and huge profits. As described by his biographer, \"he was the lifeline to the Ayatollah.\" Fredriksen would later become the world's largest tanker owner, with more than seventy oil tankers and major interests in oil rigs and fish farming. His fleet is dominated by costly double-hulled, environmentally safer tankers.\n\nIn 2006, Seadrill bought more than 50 percent of Smedvig, gaining control of the company (51.24 percent of the votes and 52.27 percent of the capital). Smedvig is Fredriksen's biggest ever deal. Noble Corp sold its stake to Seadrill in 2009, leaving Seadrill with full control. Fredriksen has been the majority owner of Vålerenga I.F. for many years.\n\nThe \"Sunday Times Rich List\" has ranked Fredriksen's wealth as £475m (2003), £1.050b (2004) and £1.887b (2005). In 2012, Fredriksen and his family were listed as the 9th richest in Britain with a combined wealth of £6.6bn. Fredriksen owns houses in London, Oslo, Cyprus, and Marbella, Spain. His house The Old Rectory in London has been estimated to be worth around US$172 million. He is a collector of classic Norwegian art.\n\nFredriksen supports research projects at Radium Hospital and has donated several hundreds of millions of Norwegian kroner to medical research at hospitals in Norway.\n\nIn 1985, the Norwegian insurance company Gard became suspicious about losses of cargo from Fredriksen's tankers. A private investigation was initiated, and a system for the use of heavy oil as bunker fuel was revealed. The case was turned over to the Norwegian police and in June 1986 Fredriksen's offices in Oslo were searched and several of his nearest associates, and after a while also Fredriksen, were placed in detention while the case was investigated.\n\nAfter several years of arguments between the various lawyers, the case was settled out of court. Fredriksen had to pay a fine of 2 million NOK for risking his crew's lives, and in addition had to pay the insurance company Gard an amount of over 800,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1412965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1412965", "title": "KYCR (AM)", "text": "KYCR (AM)\n\nKYCR (1440 AM) is a radio station serving the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area. It is owned by Salem Media Group, and is carrying a business radio format.\n\nKYCR's studios are located in Eagan, while its transmitter is located in Golden Valley.\n\nThe original call letters were KEYD and the station played country music for many years. The station was launched in May 1948 by former management and advertisers of WDGY, who had become disenchanted with the owners of that station over the discontinuance of religious programming. Family Broadcasting basically started the station as a new home for the spurned WDGY programming. KEYD got a sister TV station in 1955, KEYD-TV 9 (now KMSP-TV), and the two stations were co-owned by Family Broadcasting until mid-1956. The original KEYD radio studios were located in downtown Minneapolis on 9th Street off of Hennepin Avenue practically next to the Orpheum Theater (see photo link below). According to the 1955 Broadcasting Yearbook, both the AM and TV stations were co-located in the Foshay Tower by the end of 1955.\n\nThe call sign was changed to KEVE in June 1956 and the studios moved to the station's transmitter and antenna site at 917 Lilac Drive in Golden Valley. During that time, the station played country music. KEVE-FM (92.5 FM) signed on September 1, 1962, and by October 1963, it was given the call letters KADM to match its AM sister as the pair became known as \"Adam and Eve in the Valley\"; the city of license for the two stations is the suburb of Golden Valley. A gradual shift from country music to a mix of classical music, show tunes and adult standards began in 1960 and was completed on both stations by March 1963. On December 1, 1964, the call letters for both stations became KQRS for \"Quality Radio Stations\".\n\nIn 1967, the stations began experimenting with freeform rock music from midnight to 5 AM every night via the \"Night Watch\" program, playing R&B, jazz and psychedelic rock. The foray proved successful and by the end of 1968 it became the full-time format.\n\nThe two KQs were a simulcast until 1982, when the AM briefly switched to an oldies format as KGLD before returning to the simulcast. The KGLD calls became effective November 22, 1982, with the KQRS calls returning on March 28, 1984.\n\nIn 1985, ABC Radio Network, then a division of the original ABC, Inc. bought the station and its main FM counterpart with it from previous owner Hudson Communications Corporation, a radio broadcasting company owned by Washington D.C. lawyer Joe McKenna, which owned the station from 1956 to 1985. Along with its main FM sister, it was ABC's first foray into the Minnesota broadcast market. At first, ABC programmed the station with a classic rock format, albeit essentially being an AM simulcast of its FM sister at the time from 1985 until 1996.\n\nThe station again broke away from the simulcast in late 1996, this time permanently, when it became one of the four initial affiliates of the new Radio Disney with a children's format that competed with WWTC, then the flagship station of \"Radio Aahs,\" which had its own children's format. The station's call letters changed to KDIZ on November 15, 1996. With the advent of HD Radio, KDIZ began broadcasting with the technology, as did most other Radio Disney affiliates.\n\nDisney had previously been collaborating with Radio Aahs, which was based in Minneapolis and had launched its children's format in 1990. Radio Aahs had grown to approximately 30 affiliate stations around the country. Disney withdrew from the Aahs contract and began competing against Aahs with Radio Disney. Children's Broadcasting Corp. sued Disney and was awarded $9.5 million in 2002. Disney appealed, and after the court upheld the judgement, it was paid in 2005; with accumulated interest, the total was $12.4 million.\n\nOn November 12, 2005, the station made world news when a riot erupted at its \"Jingle Jam Concert\" featuring B5, forcing the venue, Brookdale Mall, to be closed. Members of the group were stripped of shirts, shoes and earrings.\n\nOn August 13, 2014, Disney put KDIZ and twenty-two other Radio Disney stations up for sale, in order to focus more on digital distribution of the Radio Disney network.\n\nIt held the distinction of being not only the longest-tenured Radio Disney station in its history, but also one of ABC's longest-tenured non-mainstream radio stations in its history. It was also the last-remaining Disney/ABC broadcast property in Minnesota, having had sold the others in 2007, with ABC Radio going to Citadel Broadcasting (KXXR, acquired in 1993, Love 105, acquired in 1997, and KQRS-FM, acquired in 1985).\n\nOn September 15, 2015, it was announced that Salem Media Group acquired the last five Radio Disney owned-and-operated stations for sale (including KDIZ) for $2.225 million. KDIZ was acquired through Common Ground Broadcasting, Inc., for $375.000. Salem put a business format on the station in December 2015 (taken from 1570 AM), after a brief period of silence. The format features Dave Ramsey and other business-talk oriented shows. The sale of KDIZ was completed on December 15, 2015. The station changed its callsign to KYCR on December 24th.\nWith the sale to Salem, the company shut off the station's HD Radio transmission.\n\n"}
{"id": "8357797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8357797", "title": "Kansai Science City", "text": "Kansai Science City\n\nKansai Science City is located in portions of the following eight and , in three prefectures:\n\nOsaka Prefecture\n\nKyoto Prefecture\n\nNara Prefecture\n\nOut of these, Seika in Kyoto Prefecture is completely inside the Kansai Science City.\n\nThe overall area of the Kansai Science City is 150 km², with an estimated population of 410,000. There are 12 \"Culture and Scientific Research Districts\" within the Kansai Science City, encompassing 36 km², with an estimated population of 210,000.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2016, a government committee planning the final Kyoto-Osaka segment of the Hokuriku Shinkansen proposed routing the new high-speed line through the Kansai Science City.\n\n\nThis article was translated from a portion of the in the Japanese Wikipedia, retrieved on December 10, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "49087996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49087996", "title": "Law of obligations (Bulgaria)", "text": "Law of obligations (Bulgaria)\n\nIn Bulgaria, the law of obligations is set out by the Obligations and Contracts Act (OCA). According to art. 20a OCA contracts shall have the force of a law for the parties that have concluded them.\n\nIn Bulgaria the contract is one of the prerequisites for the development of obligatory relations. The term contract refers to a bilateral legal transaction, which consists of two declarations of intent (offer and acceptance) hat must be linked to each other and match in their contents. A contract is considered concluded from the moment in which the acceptance reaches the offeror (art. 14 OCA). The parties conclude the contract, because they have as their object the occurrence of certain legal consequences. In accordance with art. 9 OCA. the parties may determine the content of the contract insofar as it does not contravene the mandatory provisions of the law and good morals. In Bulgaria, the separation principle and the abstraction principle do not apply. In contracts for the transfer of ownership to generically certain things, ownership passes when the goods are determined by agreement between the parties and in the absence of such agreements - at handover. As for ownership transfer contracts and contracts of establishing or transferring some other property right over a specific chattel, the transfer or the establishment shall occur by virtue of the contract itself and shall not require that the chattel be delivered.\n(according to art. 24 OCA).\n\nThe OCA provides that contracts of ownership transfer and those of establishing other property rights on immovable property must be executed through a notarial deed.\n\nContracts that violate legal requirements or show other legal deficits are invalid. Regarding invalid contracts, there are two subgroups to distinguish: void contracts and voidable contracts.\n\nInitially, voidable contracts are contract that are valid and binding unless avoided or declared void by a party to them on the grounds prescribed by the law. General legal provisions regarding these grounds are provided in the Bulgarian Obligations and Contracts Act (OCA); specific legal provisions are (inter alia) contained in the Family code, the Law on Protection of Competition and the Inheritance law. Invalidation may be claimed only by the party in whose interest the law allows such invalidation. A contract subject to invalidation may be ratified by the party entitled to demand its invalidation, by way of an instrument in writing which should indicate the grounds for invalidation.\nA contract shall also be ratified where the party entitled to demand its invalidation voluntarily performs it, in whole or in part, being aware of the grounds for invalidation.\nA contract which is subject to invalidation on grounds of extreme necessity may not be ratified. According to art. 27 OCA a contract may be subject to invalidation of the following grounds:\n\nAccording to the concept of void contracts used by the Bulgarian lawmakers these contracts should be regarded as if they had never been concluded. The void contracts are those which have no legal effect because of their defectiveness from their conclusion and where a conformation is usually not possible. Contracts contravening or circumventing the law, as well as contracts infringing good morals, including contracts on inheritance that does not exist as yet, shall be null and void. Null and void shall also be those contracts that have an impossible subject, as well as the contracts which lack either consent or a form prescribed by law, or grounds. Fictitious contracts are also null and void. The grounds shall be presumed to exist until otherwise proved.\n\nThe invalidity of few clauses does not render the entire contract void given that the clauses may be replaced by binding prescriptions of the law or if the transaction is supposed to have been concluded even without the void clauses.\nIf the contract is declared invalid, each party must pay back what he has received from the other party.\n\nIf an invalid contract complies with the requirements of another legal transaction, the former is valid and considered transformed in the latter given that the parties would have agreed to conclude the latter.\n\nThe representation is governed by art. 36-43 OCA. The Representation is a legal institution referring to legal actions of one person (agent) on behalf of another (principal) whereby the principal has to bear the consequences resulting from the agent’s legal actions. here are two forms of representation to be distinguished: voluntary representation – here, the representation is wanted and organized by the principal; and the second form is obligatory representation imposed by the law – in this case the law itself requires representation by certain persons.\n\n- from the principal’s unilateral declaration of intent (authorisation), e.g. his last will\n- a contract.\n- If the representation power arises from an administrative act, e.g. if the administrative act is appointed by a guardian that hereby obtains actual authority\n- from a court decision\n- from a child’s birth (parents obtain the actual authority for their child).\n\n\nThe representation is cancelled in the following cases:\n\nIf for the performance of an obligation a time limit has been fixed, the debtor is in default when he is unable to meet the obligation within this time limit. If there is no date fixed for the performance, the debtor is in default after the creditor’s request for performance. If the obligation arose due to a tort action, the default for the payment of the damages occurs without a request, from the date of the tort.\nIf the debtor is in default, he must pay damages even if the performance becomes impossible for reasons for which he is not responsible unless he can prove that the creditor would have suffered the loss/damage also in case of a timely performance.\nThe damages due to a default encompass the suffered damages as well as any lost profit, provided that the suffered damage is directly linked to the default and the profit could be expected under the contract. If the debtor did not act in good faith, he is liable for all direct and indirect damages.\n\nAccording to Article 95 of the law of obligations and contracts, the creditor defaults if he does not accept the delivery/performance offered by the debtor or if he does not cooperate when this is required for the fulfillment of the obligation.\n\nAccording to Article 99 of the Bulgarian law of obligations and contracts, a creditor may transfer his claims, provided that neither the law, a contract or the nature of the claim dictates otherwise. he transferred claim including the prerogatives, the remuneration and all other additions as well as the accrued interest passes on to the new creditor, unless something else is appointed. The old creditor must inform the debtor about the transfer of claim and hand over all present documents regarding the claim to the new creditor. Besides, the creditor must confirm the transfer in writing. The transfer is effective regarding third parties and the debtor from the day that the debtor gets informed by the old creditor. Regarding the transfer of claim for consideration, the old creditor is liable for the validity of the claim at the time of the transfer. The old creditor is only liable for the debtor’s ability to pay if he pledged himself to and only to the amount that he obtained by transferring the claim.\n\nWith the approval of creditor and/or debtor, an obligation may also be joined by a third person as co- debtor. If the creditor agreed to the joining, it may not be cancelled or modified without his consent. The principal debtor and the co-person are jointly and severally liable toward the creditor. The debtor may be substituted by third parties only with the explicit consent of the creditor. The substituted debtor is relieved from the liability towards the creditor. The securities given by third parties expire if they do not agree on serving the new creditor. Pledges and mortgages that have been given to the first creditor remain effective. The new debtor may plead against the creditor any defenses of the former debtor arising from the transferred legal relationship.\n\nThe definition of the term unlawful acts can be derived from art. 45 OCA – if a person causes guiltily damage to another person, they must redress it. In all cases of tort guilt is presumed until proven otherwise. This provision applies to all natural persons. The legal entities are liable in accordance with art. 49 OCA as principal. The subject of the tort act must be a person with legal capacity to be held liable for tort action. That is why A person lacking the capacity to understand or control his actions shall not be liable for the damage he has caused while in such a state unless he himself has faultily caused his lack of capacity (47 OCA). The legal capacity shall be evaluated in each particular case – for majors as well as for minors. In cases of self-defence the liability is excluded. It is supposed that the tortfeasor’s actions are not unlawful per se. However, in cases of stringent necessity, the created damage has to be repaired – even if the actions were not culpable, the result is unlawful.\nThe OCA provides for several cases of liability in case of unlawful acts:\n\nThe person with legal duty to care for incapable persons (e.g. teachers) is liable for damage caused by the person unable to act, unless the occurrence of the damage could not have been prevented.\n\nParents and adoptive parents that exercise parental rights are liable for the damage caused by their minor children living with them. The guardian is liable for damage caused by his ward living with him.The abovementioned persons are not liable if they were unable to prevent the occurrence of the damage.\n\nThe principal is liable for the damage caused by his commissary while performing the imposed work. This legal provision is not applicable regarding contracts for work – there the person performing the work is personally liable. The principal may exercise his right on action for recourse/claim towards the commissary.\n\nThe owner and supervisor of items are jointly and severally liable for damage caused by items of any kind. If the damage was caused by animals, the owner/supervisor is liable even if the animal ran away or got lost. Dangerousness per se or other specific characteristics of the item are not required.The owner and the supervisor are liable regardless of their personal fault; their behaviour must not be unlawful or culpable. If they prove that the damage was caused by a force majeure, by actions of third parties or by the actions of the aggrieved party, they do not carry responsibility.\n\nA person is obliged to return whenever that person has obtained something without legal basis or if the legal basis did not occur or has ceased later on (art. 55). What has been performed regarding moral obligations may not be claimed back.\n\nIf a specific item is to be returned the recipient owes its yields as well at the time of the request. If the item that is to be returned vanishes after the request or if the recipient affected the item or used it up, knowing that he owns it without legal basis or, if the revenues he obtained from the item were higher, he is obligated to pay compensation. If the item has vanished, has been affected or used up before the time of the request, the recipient only has to compensate what he availed excluding the yields. Where restitution is owed by a person of legal incapacity only what has been used to his benefit may be claimed from him. Excluding the cases named above, each person that obtained something from someone without legal basis must pay the enrichment until the state of impoverishment. This right is justified if no other claim to defend the impoverished person is present.\n\nIf a person pays another person’s obligation by mistake, he has the right to claim it back from the creditor unless the latter one renounced the document or repayment of the obligation in good faith. In the latter case, the person that paid the obligation receives the creditor’s rights.\n\nIf two persons owe each other money or similar and replaceable goods, it is possible for them to offset/to balance their mutual outstanding debts with each other under condition of maturity and solvency of both debts. The counterparty must be notified about the offsetting. When making an offset of a claim no time limits or conditions may be imposed, except for the condition that the offsetting shall be taken into account only in case the claim is brought to court. The two reciprocal claims shall be considered as extinct to the amount of the lower one as of the day on which the offsetting could have been made. The offsetting is also possible after prescription of one of the claims, if it would have been admissible before the expiry of the limitation period. If the debtor agreed to an assignment of the debt, he may not offset his obligation with the assigned one regarding his old creditor. Claims that are not subject to forcible execution and claims ensuing from wilful wrongful acts and claims for taxes cannot be set-off without the creditor's consent.\n\nIf the debt is renewed with another one with the creditor’s consent, the debt may be reconsidered. In these instances, the securities of the old debt remain in force if their providers have given their consent.\n\nThe claim may be waived if the creditor renounces his claim by a contract with the debtor.\n\nThe term „limitation“ describes a specific time period, after whose expiry the legal entity loses the right to assert and legally enforce his claims.\n\nThe limitation period starts with the maturity of the claim. If agreed that the claim becomes due after request, the limitation period starts with the moment that the liability has been stated. Regarding tortious compensation claims, the limitation period starts from the point in time of acquiring knowledge of the offender. Regarding compensation claims on grounds of default, the limitation period starts with the day that the contractual penalty has been calculated. The general rules concerning the limitation are contained in the Bulgarian law of obligations and contracts but there exist special regulations providing shorter limitation periods and other regulations that differ from the general rules:\na) claims derived from an employment relationship, if there is no other limitation period provided;\nb) damage compensation claims and contractual penalties in case of non-performance of a contract;\nc) claims derived from tenancies, interests and other regular payments;\nAgreements regarding a shortening or extension of fixed limitation periods as well as such regarding the renunciation of the limitation before it expired, are ineffective.\n\nThe time between the occurrence of reasons for the suspension and their disappearance is not included, hence the remaining limitation period continues.\nThe limitation period is suspended:\n\nIf a limitation period has been interrupted, a new limitation period begins. If the claim has been defined by the court, the limitation period is always 5 years. The limitation is interrupted when the debtor’s claim is approved; when an action has been brought to court or in case of an appeal against the conciliation procedure; if the action or the appeal has been dismissed, the limitation period is uninterrupted; when enforcement procedure has been started. What has been performed to fulfil a claim barred by the statute of limitation cannot be reclaimed even if it has been performed due to ignorance of the limitation.\n\nJoint several liability exists when two or more parties are liable for one obligation. The creditor can demand the obligation in full amount from either party but he has only one cause of action. The persons who are liable for the obligation are called joint several debtors. The joint several liability is settled in art. 121 – 127 from the Obligations and Contracts Act (OCA). Joint liability can come into being: \n\nThe absolute effect means that one juristic act affects all joint several debtors in the same way. For example, the creditor can demand the obligation in full amount from either party. The performance from one several liability debtor affects also the others and the creditor cannot refuse it without being in default. In this case the creditor will be in default towards all joint several liability debtors.\nThe autonomy of the different obligations undertaken by the joint several liability debtors is the reason for one juristic act that affects some of the obligations not have any effect on the others. This hypothesis is described by the term “relative effect of the joint several liability”. The obligations of the joint several debtors might have different due dates. As a rule the default of the debtor worsens his financial situation. That is why the default of one of the joint several liability debtors does not have any harmful consequences for the others. Another rule that can describe the relative effect of the joint several liability is that when the performance becomes impossible and only one of the debtors is responsible for that, the creditor may claim from the latter full damages. The limitation period also have a relative effect.\nIf one of the joint several liability debtors to have performed in full amount to the creditor for him to have a regress claim against his co-debtors but only for him to have paid more than his share.\n\nThe guarantee agreement obliges the guarantor to be personally responsible for the fulfillment of obligations/liabilities of the main debtor. The guarantee has to be confirmed in writing. Subject of the guarantee can be only existing obligations. It may be issued for parts of the debtor’s obligation or under more favorable conditions. The guarantor and the main debtor are jointly liable. The guarantor remains obliged under the given guarantee if the creditor has claimed payment from the debtor within 6 months after the due date of payment.\n\nIn Bulgaria it is possible that for safeguarding a claim, a pledge is created on movable property or the claim itself. The right of pledge is an accessory right – it appears and disappears with the transfer of the safeguarded claim.\n\nThe pledge agreement is only effective if the pledged object is handed over to the creditor. The only obligation of the creditor is to store the pledged object until the full repayment of the secured claim. He may not benefit from the pledge, unless there is an agreement for that.\n\nOnly claims that are able to be transferred may be pledged. The contract of pledge regarding a claim may not be set against third parties if the pledge has not been displayed towards the debtor. The pledger is obliged to hand over the documents verifying the pledged claims (if existing) to the pledge. The creditor is obliged to perform any necessary actions serving its maintenance, e.g. collecting the interest and also the principal sum.\n\nAccording to Article 149 of the Bulgarian Obligations and Contracts Act, a mortgage on real property may be established to secure a claim. According to Article 149 of the Bulgarian law of obligations and contracts, a mortgage on real property may be established to secure a claim.\n\nThe mortgage shall be created through registration in the Property Register on the grounds of a contract or by operation of law. It may be established only on separately specified properties and for a specific sum of money.\nA mortgage by operation of law:\n\nThe creation of a mortgage is invalid if either the mortgage contract or the application for creation of a mortgage by operation of law or the deed pursuant to which it is filed does not specify the identity of the creditor or the owner or the debtor, or does not specify the identity of the property or the secured claim or the amount of the sum the mortgage is created for. A creditor whose claim is secured by a mortgage is entitled to be satisfied preferentially from the mortgaged property's price, whoever its owner might be. The right to a preferential satisfaction also applies to the income from the property from the date on which the owner must give account of such income under forcible execution pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure.\n\nThe deletion of a mortgage is only possible with the creditor’s consent – in a notarized form, or on the basis of an effective court ruling. The deletion shall be made upon an application with the deed of consent or a copy of the effective court ruling attached thereto. It shall be made through entering a note in the lot of the mortgaged property. The deletion extinguishes the mortgage.\n\nWith the conclusion of a purchase contract, the seller obligates himself to transfer property or rights to the purchaser; the purchaser obligates himself to pay the agreed amount of money. The expenses related to the contract and all costs related to the transfer of the property are to be borne by the purchaser, except the purchase of estates where the expenses are divided equally. The risk of accidental loss passes to the purchaser upon the moment that the parties agreed upon the goods resp. upon the moment of transfer.\n\nThe seller is obliged to transfer the sold property/right to the purchaser. In the moment of the sale, the property must be transferred including its yields.\n\nIf third parties own property rights or other rights on the respective object which may be displayed towards the purchaser (who did not know about these rights), the seller is liable. If the sold object belongs completely to the ownership of a third party, the purchaser is entitled to dissolve the sale according to the regulations of Article 87 of the Bulgarian Obligations and Contracts Act.\n\nThe seller is liable for defects in the sold object that substantially reduce the value or the suitability for its required use. The seller is also liable if the defect was unknown to him. Any agreements that exempt the seller from his liability are void.\n\nIn cases that the seller is liable according to Article 139 of the law of obligations and contracts, the purchaser may return the object and demand the reimbursement of the price paid and of the expenses related to the sale. Regarding the non-performance of the obligations, he is entitled to a claim for compensation according to the general provisions.\n\nThe purchaser is obliged to pay the agreed price and to receive the object. The payment is to be made in the moment and at the place that the object is transferred. If the sold object produces yields or other revenues, the purchaser owes interest on the price from the day of the transfer, even if the price is not due.\n\nThe donation is a bilateral contract with the immediate and gratuitous assignment of an object performed by the giver in favour of the donee (who must accept the donation).\n\nThere are 3 types of donation contracts to be distinguished:\nThe significance of this division becomes apparent in respect of the donation’s revocation: Donations made due to moral obligations or decency may not be revoked.\n\nAccording to Article 226 OCA, the promise of donation is not binding – consequently, pre-contracts regarding donations are void. Concerning the formal requirements, there are two types of donations to be distinguished: the formal donation and the donation issued by hand (resp. Article 225 (2) of the law of obligations and contracts). Regarding the donation of real estate, the validity requires a notarial certification; regarding the donation of mobility the form is eased: only the notarial certification of the signatures is required; regarding the donation of securities, the respective form of transfer must be maintained.\n\nThe revocation of donations due to ingratitude of the donee is provided in Article 227 OCA.\n\nWith the conclusion of a rental/lease agreement according to Bulgarian law, the lessor obligates himself to provide a property to the lessee for temporary use, and the lessee undertakes to pay him a certain price. The rules regarding lease agreements are enshrined in the Obligations and Contracts Act, in Articles 228 to 239.\n\nThe lease agreement concerning property is an informal contractual agreement under OCA. It may have movable and immovable property as subject. Unless otherwise agreed, the lessor is bound to hand over the property in a state which is appropriate to the use it has been leased for and maintain this state for the duration of the contract.\n\nAccording to Bulgarian law, the lease agreement may not be signed for a period longer than 10 years, unless it is a commercial transaction.\n\nThe lessor is obligated to hand over the leased object in a state suitable for the contractually agreed use and to maintain this state during the lease time. Aside, he must repair of all damages if they are not faultily caused by the lessee and do not result from the normal usage.\n\nhe lease agreement may be terminated on several grounds. The first group encompass the general civil law termination grounds: upon mutual consent of the contracting parties; termination due to a contractual breach by one of the parties; due to objective impossibility of performance, etc. Article 236 of OCA provides the expiration of the term as ground for the termination of timely limited rental relationships.\n\nWith the conclusion of a loan contract according to Bulgarian law, the lender obliges to put a specific amount of money or replaceable goods at the borrower’s disposal. The borrower obliges to return the amount of money or goods in the same kind, amount and quality. The loan contract is a unilateral gratuitous actual contract. The borrower must pay interest only if he obliged himself to this by a written agreement.\n\nThe borrower’s primary obligation is to return the money/goods.\n\nWith the loan agreement, the lender obligates himself gratuitously to the borrower one chattel for temporary use and the borrower assumes the obligation to return it. The loan is an intuito personae agreement – the lender’s personality is essential.\n\nThe borrower must take due care of the chattel, giving higher priority to its preservation than to the preservation of his own belongings. Furthermore, he is obligated to use the object as contractually agreed and may not (unless something else has been agreed upon) hand it to third parties.\n\nThe loan agreement may be concluded for a specific period and is terminated with its expiration. Same applies accordingly if the contract has been concluded for a specific purpose. If the duration of the contract is not determined by a certain period of time or a specific purpose, the lender may claim the object back at any time.\n\nWith the conclusion of a contract for manufacture, the contractor obliges to perform a work at own risk; the customer obliges to pay the agreed remuneration. If not agreed otherwise, the contractor is obliged to perform the work on his own account. The contract for manufacture is always a legal relationship in return for payment.\n\nIf not agreed otherwise, the contractor is obligated to perform the work on his own account.The contractor is obligated to perform the work in a way that it is suitable to its usual or contractually provided use.The contractor that performs the work using his own material is liable for its quality. The person ordering the work is entitled to check the performance of the contract at any time, provided he does not disturb the contractor.\n\nThe main obligations of the customer are to pay the contractor and to accept the work suitable to its contractually provided use.\n\nIf it turns out that the contractor will not perform the work within the time limit or in the agreed or proper way, the customer is entitled to withdraw from the contract and to request damages according to the general rules. In cases of deviations from the agreed condition or defects of the work, the customer is entitled to:\nIn cases of significant deviations from the agreed condition or defects that unfit the work for the usual usage or the contractually provided purpose, the customer is entitled to cancel the contract.\n\nThe commissioner assumes the obligation to perform on behalf of the client the acts for which he is commissioned by the client (art. 280). The mandate is a unilateral and, according to its definition, gratuitous contract. Though, it is possible payment to be agreed (resp. article 286 of OCA).\n\nAccording to Article 281 of OCA, the commissioner shall perform the mandate with due diligence and shall protect the property received in connection therewith. The mandatary must provide an account to the mandator and deliver to him everything he has received in the performance of the mandate. Generally, no specific form is required – only if the order regards the acquisition of property rights on real estate, the contract must be concluded in written form and the signatures must be notary certified.\n\nBeing related to the personality of the parties, the mandate is terminated with the decease or the legal incapacity of one of the parties or with the dissolution of the legal person of the client or commissioner. Other grounds for the termination of the mandate are the withdrawal of the mandate by the client, the rejection by the commissioner and the general termination grounds regulated under the law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53740464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53740464", "title": "Life of Kylie", "text": "Life of Kylie\n\nLife of Kylie (\"LOK\") is an American reality television series starring Kylie Jenner. The eight-part half-hour series premiered on August 6, 2017, on the E! cable network. The reality series was greenlit on April 10, 2017. On May 11, 2017, E! released the first promo video of the series. This series ended on September 17, 2017.\n\nThe series follows the life of fashion entrepreneur and reality television personality Kylie Jenner as she deals with running a business while maintaining a normal life and her close friendship with Jordyn Woods. In a statement about getting her own series, Jenner notes, \"The last couple years have been such an incredible journey with the support of my fans,\" also adding, \"This show will allow me to give them a peek inside all of the exciting things I am working on as well as some personal time with friends.\"\n\n\"Time\" magazine said, \"\"Life of Kylie\" is meant to show us the person behind the pout. Yet Jenner combines the self-obsession of a teenager with the reflexive crouch of someone who has learned to quash confessional impulses.\" Sadie Gennis of \"TV Guide\" commented that the show \"is like its star: searching for purpose, but mostly very, very sad.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14750215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14750215", "title": "List of United States graduate business school rankings", "text": "List of United States graduate business school rankings\n\nList of United States business school rankings is a tabular listing of some of the business schools and their affiliated universities located in the United States that are included in one or more of the rankings of full-time Master of Business Administration programs. Rankings are typically published by magazines or websites. This list is not a comprehensive list of business schools in the United States. These rankings are a subset of college and university rankings. Business schools are university-level institutions generally affiliated with a university or college that produces students who attain business administration degrees. Most of the schools listed in the rankings below are accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. Some of the publications shown here have related rankings for undergraduate, part-time and executive curricula. There is currently some controversy among faculty and administrators in American institutions of higher education regarding the request by the surveyors to have college presidents give their subjective opinion of other colleges because some of the methodologies are deemed misleading and a disservice. This has resulted in a movement surrounding the President's letter.\n\nBusiness school rankings are important to the various business schools because they are an important marketing tool used to recruit top students, and lure recruiters from the top companies. Business schools attempt to achieve higher rankings in order that they may obtain the top students who will over the course of their careers most likely benefit the school by achieving high ranking positions, attaining great influence, and accumulating great wealth. Such students often are able to help other students attain better (higher paying, more respected and more influential) jobs. Students use the rankings to choose their school, and creators of the rankings produce them to aid in this decision.\n\nMore than half of recruiters said they believe the quality of MBA graduates is the same or better currently compared with past years. Some of the most renowned schools, such as Harvard and Stanford, do not rank as highly as their stature might suggest. Recruiters complain that they often find graduates of some of the most famous institutions more arrogant and less collegial than the MBAs they meet at other schools. Recruiters also noted that \"some of the large, elite schools also don't seem to enjoy as many close, personal relationships with recruiters as smaller MBA programs do.\"\n\nThe rankings are based on a variety of factors such as standardized test scores of students, salary of recent graduates, survey results of graduates and/or recruiters, the specific schools that choose to participate in a market survey, the number of top companies recruiting at the school and a variety of attributes. The ratings vary significantly by method used to determine the success of each program. For instance, the \"Forbes\" and \"Financial Times\" results are based on long-term graduate career progress concerns, the \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" and \"Economist\" polls evaluate short-term experiences of the students with their program, \"U.S. News & World Report\" consider the recent experiences of recruiters with the program, and other rankings like the Aspen Institute \"Beyond Grey Pinstripes\" measure integration of sustainability material into business programs.\n\nThe \"U.S. News & World Report\" uses a combination of the objective and subjective as well. The magazine seeks \"expert opinion about program quality and statistical indicators that measure the quality of a school's faculty, research, and students.\" However, it ranks a broad spectrum of professional school programs such as business schools, law schools, and medical schools as well as a variety of programs specific academic disciplines such as the social sciences or humanities. The business opinion data incorporates responses from deans, program directors, and senior faculty about the academic quality of their programs as well as the opinions of professionals who actually do the hiring of the new MBA graduates from the schools. The statistical data combines measures of the qualities of the incoming students and as well as the faculty with measures of post graduate success as related to their degrees. There were 382 programs that responded out of 402 solicited, and the formula used a strict combination of quality assessment (40%), placement success (35%), and student selectivity (25%).\n\nThe \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" rankings, which are based on three sources of data (a student survey, a survey of corporate recruiters, and an intellectual capital rating), are published in mid-October of even numbered years. The 2006 student survey of 45 online questions of students' ratings of their programs was distributed to 16,595 students three weeks before graduation; there were 9,290 responses. The recruiter survey determines how many MBAs a recruiter's company hired in the previous two years and which schools it actively recruits from. 223 respondents participated out of 426 solicited. The intellectual capital is determined based on a formula incorporating academic publications in journals, books written, and faculty size.\n\nThe \"Forbes magazine\" methodology was to calculate a five-year return on investment for 2002 graduates. \"Forbes\" surveyed 18,500 alumni of 102 MBA programs and used their pre-enrollment and post-graduate business school salary information as a basis for comparing post-MBA compensation with the cost of attending the programs.\n\nThe Economist Intelligence Unit, the business information arm of the Economist Group, gathered results from two internet questionnaires, one of business schools and one of their students and recent graduates, and used them to rate business schools located all over the world. Information provided by the schools made up 80% of the ranking, with student and alumni responses accounting for only 20%. Factors in the evaluation included faculty:student ratio, GMAT scores of incoming students, student body diversity, foreign languages offered, percentage of graduates finding jobs within three months after graduation, percentage of graduates finding jobs through the school's career service, graduates' salaries and the comparison of pre-enrollment and post-graduation salaries, and student/alumni evaluations of the program, facilities, services, and alumni network. Results were tabulated using a smoothing method incorporating the three previous years' results. The organization used strict data provision thresholds, with the result that some highly regarded schools were omitted from the list of 100 ranked schools.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" poll was the result of over 10,000 respondents to nearly 23000 electronic questionnaires of alumni from 155 qualifying business schools. The survey began in July 2006 and all internationally accredited programs that are at least five years old and that have produced at least 30 graduates in each of the last three years were solicited. 113 of the 155 had at least 20 respondents and at least a 20 percent response rate. The questionnaire used twenty criteria in three main areas. The poll actually presents all twenty criteria to the reader. Eight criteria are based on alumni responses; eleven criteria are based on business school responses, and the final criterion is based on a research index produced by the \"Financial Times\". The survey responses are audited by KPMG.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" has also produced a \"ranking of rankings\" summarizing five of the individual rankings (\"The Economist\", \"Bloomberg Businessweek\", \"Wall Street Journal\", \"Forbes\", \"Financial Times\"). They produce United States, and European summary rankings based on all five and a global summary ranking using the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"Economist\" and \"Financial Times\". The summary is based on underlying polls in which a school placed in the top ten using an average of the ordinal placements. The summary excludes the \"U.S. News & World Report\" results.\n\nThe \"Academic Ranking of World Universities\" includes every institution that has any Nobel Laureates, Fields Medals, and highly cited researchers. In addition, major universities of every country with significant amount of papers indexed by Science Citation Index-Expanded (SCIE) and Social Science Citation Index (SSCI) are also included. Having alumni of an institution winning Nobel Prizes in Economics since 1951 attributes 10% of the score. Staff of an institution winning Turing Awards in computer science since 1961 contributes 15% of the score. Highly cited researchers in economics/business category get 25% weighting. Papers indexed in SSCI in economics/business fields gets 25%. Finally, the percentage of papers published in top 20% journals of economics/business fields to that in all economics/business journals gets 25% weighting.\n\nRankings based on attributes other than standardized test scores, salary of graduates, and similar attributes also exist. The \"Beyond Grey Pinstripes\" ranking, compiled by the Aspen Institute and published biannually, is based entirely on the integration of social and environmental stewardship into university curriculum and faculty research. Data for this survey is solicited from university administrators at accredited colleges, and audited by teams of Ph.D. scoring fellows. Rankings are calculated on the amount of sustainability coursework made available to students (20%), amount of student exposure to relevant material (25%), amount of coursework focused on stewardship by for-profit corporations (30%), and relevant faculty research (25%). The 2011 survey and ranking include data from 150 universities.\n\nThe ranking of business schools has been discussed in articles and on academic websites.\nCritics of ranking methodologies maintain that any published rankings should be viewed with caution for the following reasons:\n\nIn the specific case of MBA programs, one study found that ranking MBA programs by a combination of graduates' starting salaries and average student GMAT score can duplicate some of the ranking order found in top 20 lists of Business Week and U.S. News & World Report.\n\nThe historical rankings of the top MBA programs show little variation, even over a long time period. In 1977, \"MBA Magazine\" surveyed business schools deans to come up with a ranking which listed The Wharton School, Harvard Business School, Stanford Graduate School of Business, the Booth School of Business, and the MIT Sloan School of Management as their top 5. These schools plus the Kellogg School of Management have always comprised the top 5 schools in every U.S. News & World Report ranking. With the addition of Columbia Business School, these seven schools which are most frequently listed at the top of various rankings (and are the top seven worldwide in the Business Insider ranking) have been referred to as \"America's seven most powerful schools\".\n\nBelow all schools that ranked on any of the lists below are ordered alphabetically and presented with their numerical rankings in the respective lists. The following abbreviations are used in the column headings: USN - \"U.S. News & World Report\", BW - \"Bloomberg Businessweek\", Ec - \"The Economist\", FT - \"Financial Times\", AE - \"América Economía\", CNN - \"CNN Expansion\", BI - \"Business Insider\", QS - \"Quacquarelli Symonds\" and ARWU - \"Academic Ranking of World Universities\".\n"}
{"id": "53179812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53179812", "title": "Master of Science in Marketing", "text": "Master of Science in Marketing\n\nThe Master of Science in Marketing (or MS Marketing) is a graduate degree that prepares the student to work in middle-management-and-above marketing positions. The specific field within marketing will depend on the student, their program, and the firm with which they will work. Fields may include brand management, digital marketing, integrated marketing communication, marketing analytics and research, marketing strategy, pricing strategy and many others.\nThe key difference between the MS Marketing degree and the Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree is the required number of marketing courses in the degree. Typically the MBA degree may have a concentration in marketing or other fields of 4-6 courses. The MS Marketing degree will usually have 10-12 marketing courses. The MBA will offer courses in accounting, finance, business strategy, marketing, organizational behavior and other general business courses in much less depth than a specialized degree such as the MS Marketing degree that requires marketing courses, supplemented with perhaps a few electives in other areas such as analytics.\n\n"}
{"id": "2556621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2556621", "title": "Mimi Gardner Gates", "text": "Mimi Gardner Gates\n\nMary \"Mimi\" Gates (née Gardner; born July 30, 1943) is an American art historian who is the recent Director of the Seattle Art Museum. In 1996, she married Bill Gates Sr., father of Bill Gates.\n\nGates holds a B.A. degree in art history from Stanford University, a certificate with honors in Chinese language and culture from the École Nationale des Langues Orientales Vivantes in Paris, an M.A. degree in Oriental and Chinese Studies from the University of Iowa, and a Ph.D. degree in Art History from Yale University. An old friend of Theresa Heinz Kerry, she is also a frequent juror for the Heinz Awards, appointed by the Heinz Family Philanthropies to award outstanding achievement in the area of Arts and Humanities.\n\nShe was curator of Asian art and then director of the Yale University Art Gallery. At Yale, she contributed to the development of the Association of Art Museum Directors (AAMD) guideline discouraging the sale of artwork in a Museum's collection, even to cover operating costs. In a brief, she detailed her view that museum collections are \"a public trust\". She has also lobbied the U.S. and Chinese negotiators to ensure that implementation of UNESCO rules about non-archaeological cultural exports do not tie the hands of American curators.\n\nShe came to Seattle in 1994 to head the museum, and in her tenure, has added over 2500 works to the collections. Among these are many Asian art treasures and works by Van Dyck, Albert Bierstadt, Richard Serra and Alexander Calder. The museum has also established a sculpture park. The museum's endowment has tripled to over $75 million and the region's first conservation studio was opened. In 1999, the museum discovered that a Matisse painting in its possession was looted by Nazis and owned by the descendants of French-Jewish art dealer Paul Rosenberg. Gates brokered an 11th-hour settlement that returned the artwork, after which the museum sued the gallery that had sold it the painting in the 1950s. Gates has co-authored \"Porcelain Stories: From China to Europe\" and \"Biblical Art and the Asian Imagination\"\n\nGates retired from the Seattle Art Museum in 2009.\n\nGates, elected by Yale alumni, served a six-year term, commencing July 1, 2007, on the Yale Corporation, Yale University’s governing body.\n"}
{"id": "18253245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18253245", "title": "Modern Materials Handling", "text": "Modern Materials Handling\n\nModern Materials Handling is a monthly B2B magazine published by Peerless Media. It was founded by Norman Cahners in 1945.\n\nThe group publisher and president of Peerless Media is Brian Ceraolo. The chief editor is Michael Levans, with the editorial offices located in Framingham, Massachusetts, USA.\n\nTopics covered include: materials handling automation and mechanization, storage and staging, inventory data management, transport packaging, lift trucks and accessories, and other resources related to the materials handling side of the supply chain. \n\nReed Business Information closed \"Modern Materials Handling\" on April 16, 2010. On April 23, Reed sold its closed Supply Chain publications to a new company, Peerless Media, formed by Brian Ceraolo, former Group Publisher.\n\n"}
{"id": "9750806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9750806", "title": "Palo (OLAP database)", "text": "Palo (OLAP database)\n\nPalo is a memory resident multidimensional (online analytical processing (OLAP) or multidimensional online analytical processing (MOLAP)) database server and typically used as a business intelligence tool for controlling and budgeting purposes with spreadsheet software acting as the user interface. Beyond the multidimensional data concept, Palo enables multiple users to share one centralised data storage (single version of the truth).\n\nThis type of database is suitable to handle complex data models for business management and statistics. Apart from multidimensional queries, data can also be written back and consolidated in real-time. To give rapid access to all data, Palo stores them in the memory during run time. The server is available as open-source and proprietary software.\n\nJedox was founded by Kristian Raue in 2002 and developed by Jedox AG, a company based in Freiburg, Germany. The firm currently employs approximately 100 people. Kristian Raue's departure from Jedox was announced in June 2014.\n\nPalo for Excel is an open source plug-in for Microsoft Excel. There is also an open source plug-in for OpenOffice.org named PalOOCa (discontinued), with Java and web client also available from the JPalo project. Palo can also be integrated into other systems via its client libraries for Java, PHP, C/C++, or .NET Framework. It is fairly easy to communicate with Palo OLAP Server, since it uses representational state transfer (REST).\n\nStarting in October 2008, Palo supports XML for Analysis and MultiDimensional eXpressions (MDX) APIs for connectivity, and OLE DB for OLAP interface which allows standard Excel pivot tables to serve as a client tool.\nStarting September 2011, Palo supports SDX dialect of LINQ.\n\nPalo also provides a web-based spreadsheet interface called Palo Web.\n\nPalo Suite is a tightly integrated framework consisting of: Palo MOLAP Server, Palo ETL Server, Palo Web (Palo Spreadsheet - Connection, User, ETL, File and Report Manager), Palo for Excel, Palo Supervision Server and the Palo Client Libraries.\n\nThe Data in Palo database is stored as a cube in the Palo MOLAP server. The Palo Excel Add-In component is used as a service to communicate between the Excel and the Palo MOLAP Server.\n\nJedox announced only commercial licensing is available since 5.1 version (2015).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3302242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302242", "title": "Plaza Hotel &amp; Casino", "text": "Plaza Hotel &amp; Casino\n\nThe Plaza Hotel & Casino is a casino–hotel located in downtown Las Vegas, Nevada owned by the Tamares Group, and PlayLV is the leaseholder and operator of the property. It currently has 1,037 rooms and suites, as well as an casino and there is more than of event space. The Plaza also features a classic showroom, seasonal roof top swimming pool, and fitness center, as well as a race and sports book.\n\nThe Plaza began an extensive $35 million renovation project at the end of 2010 that included brand new guestrooms and suites, an entirely remodeled casino floor and lobby, and all new restaurants, bars and entertainment options. The renovations utilize contemporary furnishings and materials purchased from the Fontainebleau Resort after it suspended construction on the Las Vegas Strip. The hotel and the full casino reopened on September 1, 2011.\n\nPrior to the construction of the casino, part of the site was used for the first train station in Las Vegas, a Spanish style depot, constructed in 1906. It was replaced in 1940 with a Streamline Moderne train station designed by H. L. Gogerty, with a Union Pacific shield, and \"Streamliners & Challangers\" neon sign. This station was demolished in 1970 and replaced by the Union Plaza Hotel, which included a small waiting room to be used as a station for Amtrak trains.\n\nOpened on July 2, 1971 with the owners including local businessmen: Sam Boyd, Frank Scott, Howard Cannon and Jackie Gaughan. Its original name was Union Plaza, in reference to the Union Pacific railroad station that originally stood at the site.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1992, the red neon object was installed at the top of the neon sign.\n\nBefore the discontinuation of the \"Desert Wind\" train route on May 10, 1997, Amtrak made its Las Vegas, Nevada station near the Plaza. The station and ticket windows were directly connected to the hotel. It was the only train station in the United States located in a casino.\n\nBarrick Gaming Corporation acquired the Plaza from Jackie Gaughan and in late 2005 later ceded operation to majority owner Tamares Group. On July 1, 2005 after Tamares took control of the Plaza mayor Oscar Goodman made his opinions clear in an article in the Las Vegas Press. He said \"If I had my druthers, I would like to have somebody in place to discuss imploding the Plaza.\" He was referring to his desire to see the Plaza replaced with new construction that would create a scenic entrance to Union Park.\n\nDuring its ownership by Barrick Gaming Corporation, D.W. Barrick's good friend, Larry Manetti (who played Orville \"Rick\" Wright on the television show \"Magnum, P.I.\") hosted a celebrity brunch every Sunday, featuring such guests as Pat Morita and Steve Rossi. He also owned Manetti's in the Plaza. When Barrick sold its interest in the hotel to the Tamares Group, Manetti closed his restaurant and severed his relationship with the hotel. The Plaza's famed glass dome is now the home of Oscar's Steakhouse, mutually influenced by Las Vegas former mayor Oscar Goodman and the Plaza itself.\n\nThe hotel closed for renovations on November 11, 2010, and acquired furniture, carpets and fixtures from the bankrupt Fontainebleau Resort Las Vegas project on the Strip. From November, 2010 to August, 2011, the Plaza still operated its sports & racebook, showroom, one bar, and a portion of the casino. By March 2011, the south tower had been renovated, and the casino finished renovations and re-opened on August 24, 2011. The hotel again opened for business on September 1, 2011.\n\nIn 2014, the Plaza announced that a new 3,500-seat facility would be constructed at the hotel to become the new home arena for the Las Vegas Wranglers minor league hockey team of the ECHL. However, the hockey team suspended operations for the 2014-15 season and would eventually fold mid-season.\n\n\nThe syndicated Ultimate Poker Challenge has been taped at the Plaza as well as the currently-running National Wrestling Alliance program \"NWA Wrestling Showcase\", airing on \"Colours TV\".\n\nCBS finished production early in 2010 of a show called \"The Odds\" that was to take place at the Plaza Hotel as well as along the Fremont Street Experience starring Donald Faison.\n\nIn a 1991 episode of Murder She Wrote - A Killing in Vegas, the Plaza Hotel can be seen in two scenes. The first is where Jessica is seen coming out of the Hotel she is staying at and the Lobby Entrance Canopy lights can clearly been seen. The second is just before the victim gets murdered and the scene shows a quick glimpse of Fremont Street from the Pioneer looking up the street towards the Plaza at the top of the road (the name Plaza can clearly be seen.)\n\n"}
{"id": "23992921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23992921", "title": "Railway Companies' Association", "text": "Railway Companies' Association\n\nThe Railway Companies' Association was a co-ordinating body for British railway companies from 1867 until nationalisation in 1948. Its purpose was to protect the interests of the companies and their shareholders, chiefly against parliamentary interference. It was an early example of a lobby organisation.\n\nThe Association had its roots in a meeting of railway company chairmen, held at the Railway Clearing House (RCH) in March 1854, to discuss parliamentary matters of concern, but a properly constituted organisation developed only slowly. This was partly a result of the independent nature of the Victorian railway companies and the number of company chairmen and senior\nofficers who were Lords or MPs in their own right, and partly a reflection of the gradually increasing role of government in regulating railway company actions and the need for an 'industry' response.\n\nBy 1858 a United Railway Companies' Committee (URCC) had been formed, but it foundered after three years and was only re-constituted at a meeting on 26 June 1867, held at the Westminster office of the Midland Railway Company. The revived body's first achievement was to promulgate a standard format for the accounts of railway companies, drawn up by the Chief Accountants of five of the major companies. This was accepted by the Board of Trade and included as a Schedule in the Regulation of Railways Act 1868 (31 & 32 Vict., cap. 119).\nThe URCC was renamed 'The Railway Companies' Association' in 1869 or 1870. Its main task was to follow the progress of legislation which might affect railways, attempting to persuade MPs and Lords to vote in the 'railway interest', and giving evidence to parliamentary committees. It also promoted legislation designed to assist railway companies. This finally left the RCH free of a political role and able to concentrate on the commercial organisation of inter-company services.\n\nMembership of the Association received a boost with the arguments over the passing of the Regulation of Railways Act 1873 (36 & 37 Vict., cap. 48). The perceived threats to profitability, through regulation of the rates which the 'monopolist' railways could charge, led to several moderately-large companies joining the major ones in the Association, finally giving it national coverage.\n\nChairmanship of the Association rotated amongst the Chairmen of leading railway companies. Much of the actual lobbying work of the Association devolved onto its parliamentary subcommittee, which consisted of Lords and MPs from the member companies' boards.\n\nThe Association had a small permanent secretariat, paid for by a precept of one or two shillings per £1,000 of the gross revenue of each participating company. The first Secretary of the Association was Kenneth Morison, who was also the first secretary of the RCH, but by 1873 the Honorary Secretary was Henry Oakley (knighted 1891), who was Secretary and then General Manager (1870-1898) of the Great Northern Railway. He remained in post at the Association for the rest of 19th century, and the Association's activities were presumably co-ordinated from Oakley's offices at King's Cross.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Regulation of Railways Act 1889 (52 & 53 Vict., cap. 57) and the industrial unrest of the 1890s, including the North Eastern Railway's unilateral recognition of the new trades union the Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants, the ad-hoc nature of the Association came under increasing pressure, leading to a restructuring. This involved giving the secretariat a permanent base, in three rooms at 53 Parliament Street, leased from October 1900, and appointing a full-time paid secretary, the first being the rising barrister William Guy Granet, appointed in\nNovember 1905. Later secretaries included barristers W. Temple Franks (1905-1909) and Arthur Beresford Crane (1909-1929).\n\nThe Association's role was necessarily reduced during World War I when parliamentary interest in domestic transport matters was low, railways being managed for the war effort under the provisions of the Regulation of the Forces Act 1871, but it gained in importance when the newly established post-war Ministry of Transport decided to deal with the railway companies jointly through the Association. However, because the Railways Act 1921, during passage of which the Association lobbied for better compensation terms for shareholders, grouped British companies into four large concerns, another restructuring of the Association took place. The parliamentary members' council was abolished, severing the direct link with parliament, and the four new general managers constituted a standing committee of the Association. Briefings of independent railway-linked Lords and MPs continued however, for example in the companies' 1938 'Square Deal' campaign for reform of freight rates' legislation in the face of road competition (which was overtaken by the onset of war in 1939) and in the run up to the Transport Act 1947 which nationalised the railways. With all railways then under a single management within the British Transport Commission, the Association was wound up at this point.\n\nModern commentators (Bonavia, Harris) drop the apostrophe in the name of this organisation, but Alderman includes it (when not abbreviating it to 'Railway Association'). Despite not having had opportunity to examine the Association's minutes, one feels sure that the Victorians would also have been grammatically correct and we have retained it here. The Association doesn't seem to have been referred to by its initials 'RCA'.\n\nThe minutes of the Association were printed and distributed to the member companies, so several sets survive. They are available for consultation in The National Archives, together with other papers relating to the Association, and in the National Archives of Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "41898789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41898789", "title": "Raymond Ocampo", "text": "Raymond Ocampo\n\nRaymond L. Ocampo, Jr. (born February 10, 1953) is a retired Filipino-American luger. He represented the Philippines at the 1988 Winter Olympics. He participated at the Winter Olympics' men's singles event where he ranked 35 out of 38 overall. His Winter Olympic stint was almost put in jeopardy due to some issues with the kind of passport he should be holding to represent the Philippines at the Olympics. The Philippine Olympic Committee eventually allowed him to compete under the Philippine flag without a Philippine passport despite previously requiring Ocampo the said type of passport. Ocampo previously insisted that under the rules by the IOC that he as a Filipino-American dual citizen is eligible to represent the Philippines as he did not competed for another country as a luger prior to the Olympics. Ocampo first competed at the 1986 Empire State Games. Ocampo is also a lawyer.\n\nOcampo was designated as honorary captain of the national luge team of the United States at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.\n\nOcampo is the current President and CEO of Samurai Surfer LLC, a private consulting and investment company.\n"}
{"id": "44991138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44991138", "title": "Reidar Floeng", "text": "Reidar Floeng\n\nJohn Reidar Floeng (15 May 1918 – 24 December 2014) was a Norwegian politician for the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born in Åsnes, but moved to Mysen. He started his career in the Norwegian State Railways, but inherited his father-in-law's company Ous & Co in 1948. After thirty years as chief executive he finished his career as office manager in Lundeby & Co.\n\nFloeng was elected as mayor of Mysen, serving from 1952 to 1955. He served as a deputy representative to the Parliament of Norway from Østfold during the term 1961–1965.\n"}
{"id": "22375093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22375093", "title": "Resin casting", "text": "Resin casting\n\nResin casting is a method of plastic casting where a mold is filled with a liquid synthetic resin, which then hardens. It is primarily used for small-scale production like industrial prototypes and dentistry. It can be done by amateur hobbyists with little initial investment, and is used in the production of collectible toys, models and figures, as well as small-scale jewellery production.\n\nThe synthetic resin for such processes is a monomer for making a plastic thermosetting polymer. During the setting process, the liquid monomer polymerizes into the polymer, thereby hardening into a solid. \n\nSingle-monomer resins may be used in the process, which form homopolymers (polymers containing only one type of polymer). In such uses, the \"curing agent\" mixed with the resin contains what is loosely referred to as a \"catalyst,\" but which is more technically an initial source of free radicals (such as MEKP) to act as an initiator in a free-radical chemical chain reaction polymerization. Alternately, resin casting may be accomplished with a resin plus a nearly equal amount of a \"hardener\" liquid (as in many epoxy resin or polyester resin systems), which functionally contains a second polymer, for use in forming a final product plastic which is a copolymer. Copolymers contain two different alternating chemical entities in the final polymer molecule.\n\nMost commonly a thermosetting resin is used that polymerizes by mixing with a curing agent (polymerization catalyst) at room temperature and normal pressure. The resins are named by analogy with plant resins, but are synthetic monomers for making polymer plastics. The so-called synthetic resins used include polystyrene resin, polyurethane resin, epoxy resin, unsaturated polyester resin, acrylic resin and silicone resin.\n\nEpoxy resin has a lower viscosity than polyurethane resin ; polyester resin also shrinks markedly while curing. Acrylic resin, in particular the methyl methacrylate type of synthetic resin, produces acrylic glass (also called PMMA, Lucite, Plexiglass), which is not a glass but a plastic polymer that is transparent, and very hard. It is suitable for embedding objects (such as, for example, acrylic trophies), for display purposes. Styrene is a similar liquid monomer at room temperature, which will also polymerize into clear glass-like polystyrene plastic, with addition of a suitable catalyst.\n\nA flexible mold can be made of latex rubber, room temperature vulcanized silicone rubber or other similar materials at relatively low cost, but can only be used for a limited number of castings.\n\nThe simplest method is gravity casting where the resin is poured into the mold and pulled down into all the parts by gravity. When the two part resin is mixed air bubbles tend to be introduced into the liquid which can be removed in a vacuum chamber. The casting can also be done in a vacuum chamber (when using open molds) to either extract these bubbles, or in a pressure pot, to reduce their size to the point where they aren't visible. Pressure and/or centrifugal force can be used to help push the liquid resin into all details of the mold. The mold can also be vibrated to expel bubbles.\n\nEach unit requires some amount of hands-on labor, making the final cost per unit produced fairly high. This is in contrast to injection molding where the initial cost of creating the metal mold is higher, but the mold can be used to produce a much higher number of units, resulting in a lower cost per unit.\n\nResin casting is used to produce collectible and customized toys and figures like designer toys, garage kits and ball-jointed dolls, as well as scale models, either individual parts or entire models of objects like trains, aircraft or ships. They are generally produced in small quantities, from the tens to a few hundred copies, compared to injection-molded plastic figures which are produced in many thousands. Resin casting is more labor intensive than injection molding, and the soft molds used are worn down by each cast. The low initial investment cost of resin casting means that individual hobbyists can produce small runs for their own use, such as customization, while companies can use it to produce small runs for public sale.\n\nThe creation of a toy or figure start with the traditional sculpting process where the artist designs a clay sculpture. Where appropriate, for example when making a garage kit, the sculpture is dissected into several parts like head, torso, arms and legs. A flexible mold made from room temperature vulcanized (RTV) silicone rubber is made for each part.\n\nAfter the mold has been made, a synthetic resin - such as polyurethane or epoxy - mixed with a curing agent, is poured into each mold cavity. Mixing the two liquid parts causes an exothermic reaction which generates heat and within minutes causes the material to harden, yielding castings or copies in the shape of the mold into which it has been poured. The molds are commonly half-divided (like the hollowed chocolate Easter eggs with candy inside) and a release agent may be used to make removal of the hardened/set resin from the mold easier. The hardened resin casting is removed from the flexible mold and allowed to cool.\n\nDue to aggressive nature of most compounds used for casting and the high temperature of the reaction the mold gradually degrades and loses small details. Typically, a flexible mold will yield between 25 and 100 castings depending upon the size of the part, the intensity of the heat generated.\n\nDepending on the type of product it may then be cut or sanded to remove any casting artefacts like sprues and seams. Some products are also assembled and painted, while some models and kits, which are intended for the consumer to assemble, are left unfinished.\n\nThe ability of RTV silicone molds to reproduce even the tiniest detail means that many of these low volume castings are of very high quality. Quality of both original masters and resin castings varies due to differences in creator's skill, as well as casting techniques.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52595061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52595061", "title": "Ricky Lauren", "text": "Ricky Lauren\n\nRicky Lauren (born Ricky Ann Low-Beer on June 15, 1943), is an American author, artist and photographer and wife of fashion designer Ralph Lauren. She is also a psychotherapist.\n\nBorn Ricky Ann Low-Beer, she grew up in New York City. She is the daughter of Austrian immigrants, Margaret Vytouch and Rudolph Low-Beer. Lauren was an English major at Hunter College. She met her future husband Ralph Lauren at the eye doctor's office where she was working part-time. Lauren also taught fifth grade and danced for a time in The Bronx. On December 20, 1964, she married Ralph Lauren in New York City.\n\nLauren has supported her husband's career as a kind of \"silent partner\", as summarized by \"The New York Times\". These activities included attending fashion industry events or charities with him, hosting parties, and her patronage for charitable events. In 2000, she and her husband established a cancer center which is part of North General Hospital in Harlem. The couple also founded the Ralph and Ricky Lauren Center for the Performing Arts, which is located at the Lexington School for the Deaf, in New York City.\n\nLauren has been identified as the \"Polo Persona\", the model by which the Polo advertising campaigns are developed. Of being his muse, Ralph wrote in his memoir, \"I didn't like the girl with all the makeup and high heels. I liked the girl in jeans and a white shirt with rolled-up sleeves, wearing her boyfriend's jacket. That's the girl I am attracted to. That's the girl I married—Ricky.\" Ralph also acknowledged that when he began designing women's clothes, his interest was piqued by his wife's frustration in finding clothes she would like that could fit her slim and petite build.\n\nAfter her children were in school, Lauren returned to college and got her degree and then worked as a psychotherapist.\n\nLauren is an author, artist and photographer most prominently known for her lifestyle and cookbooks. One of her books is \"Cuisine, Lifestyle, and Legend of the Double RL Ranch\", of which \"The New York Times\" says, \"Here is a loving — and really beautiful — picture-book tribute (with history and recipes) to the spot near Telluride that spawned an empire built on denim shirts, tooled turquoise-buckle belts, and red-and-black horse blankets.\" It reflects her interest in a casual life style and simple Western-style cuisine. She wrote \"\", which was well received by \"Publishers Weekly\". Lauren wrote and illustrated \"Safari\" with her photographs from a 1983 trip to Africa. The proceeds of the leather-and canvas-bound book go to the World Wildlife Fund. She also wrote the book \"My Island\" in 1994.\n\nRicky and Ralph Lauren have three children, Andrew, David, and Dylan. The Laurens lived in Southampton, New York in a converted barn during the beginning of their marriage. Then, they spent the summers in Long Island. They had two houses in Amagansett, from which Ralph commuted into New York City, and then a house in East Hampton. She currently resides in New York City, Montauk, New York, Jamaica, and on the family owned Double RL Ranch beneath the San Juan Mountains outside Telluride, Colorado that they bought in 1982.\n\nLauren studied photography after she was married.\n\n"}
{"id": "41024804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41024804", "title": "Ruth Forbes Young", "text": "Ruth Forbes Young\n\nRuth Forbes Young (1903, Milton, Massachusetts – 5 March 1998, Berkeley, California) was a member of the Forbes family and a founder of the International Peace Academy in 1970. She also co-founded Berkeley's Institute for the Study of Consciousness with her third husband, Arthur M. Young.\n\nForbes was a member of the Massachusetts Forbes family, being the daughter of Ralph Emerson Forbes and Elise Cabot. She was a great-granddaughter of Ralph Waldo Emerson and a niece of William Cameron Forbes (Governor-General of the Philippines 1908 - 1913).\n\nForbes married architect Lyman Paine in the mid-1920s; they moved together from Boston to New York, where Forbes' friend Mary Bancroft described them as hosting \"wonderful parties in their West Side apartment\". Forbes and Paine divorced in the 1930s after having two children, Cameron Paine and Michael Paine. A second marriage, in the early 1940s to Dr. Giles Thomas, was cut short by the latter's death. Forbes married Arthur M. Young in 1948.\n\nForbes studied painting at the Arts Student League, and her still lifes and landscapes were exhibited in New York and Philadelphia. She produced ballets in Santa Barbara, designing sets and costumes herself.\n\nForbes joined the World Federalist Movement after the dropping of atomic bombs in 1945. Later wanting to go beyond this, she consulted with United Nations General Secretary U Thant about setting up an international academy to support international diplomatic efforts towards peace. Thant recommended getting in touch with Indar Jit Rikhye, who went on to become the International Peace Academy first President. Forbes provided the Academy's initial funding, and continued to support it financially. In 1972 Forbes also co-founded Berkeley's Institute for the Study of Consciousness with her third husband, Arthur M. Young. \n"}
{"id": "12225559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12225559", "title": "SMART (Scottish business grant)", "text": "SMART (Scottish business grant)\n\nSMART: SCOTLAND is a high profile innovation support grant scheme in Scotland aimed at small and medium-sized firms. It supports commercially viable projects which represent a significant technological advance for the UK sector or industry concerned.\n\nThe SMART grant supports technology development through:\n\n\nApplicants must be based in Scotland or planning to set up in Scotland and must meet the European Community definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise which in summary means they must:\n\n\nAwards are judged according to technological, intellectual property, financial and commercial aspects of the application as well as the management expertise available to the business. In addition other aspects such as the project's implications on society such as environmental impact, sustainability and health and safety may be taken into account.\n\nThe grant was launched in Scotland as SMART in 1999 and by April 2007 grants had been given to almost 400 businesses across Scotland amounting to some £14.7 million funding. In April 2007 SMART was relaunched as the \"SMART:SCOTLAND\" Programme .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57990679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57990679", "title": "Santiago Graf", "text": "Santiago Graf\n\nSantiago Graf (October 16, 1845 in Oberhembrach, Zurich, Switzerland - August 31, 1904 near Xalapa, Mexico) was a Swiss born. brewer, businessman, and director and manager of Compania Cervecera Toluca y Mexico. He was the first successful brewer of lager beer in Mexico and pioneered the \"Graf\" style of Vienna lager, one of the two styles of Vienna lager today and still popular in Mexico and the southwest United States.\n\nIn 1875 Graf purchased the original Compania Cervecera Toluca y Mexico, a small producer of cerveza sencilla, a form of light ale, from fellow Swiss Ausgustin Marendazand and began brewing a popular amber ale which is often cited as the first commercially successful beer brewed in the southwest. The problems with temperature control during wort production and fermentation in Mexico's hot climate forced him to continue brewing ale until the opening of an international railroad link with the United States enabled him to import the first large ice producing absorption machines from Germany in 1882. With better equipment and the ability to cool wort and fermenter's properly, Graf was the first to successfully brew lager in Mexico. In 1890, Graf formed a stock company and erected the first large, modern lager brewery in Mexico.\n\nGraf brewed various types of light colored ambers but seemed uninterested in pale beers like the popular Pilsener style. Disappointed with the quality of malt and hops available locally, he imported all his hops from Europe and most of his malt from the United States. In addition, he set up his own malting facilities in Mexico, using barley imported from the United States. Graf was able to increase the acidity of his mash by increasing the percentage of dark malts in his recipes thereby counteracting the high alkalinity of brewing water available in Mexico, with the alkalinity simultaneously mellowing the acidic flavors of the dark malts in the final product. The result was a popular, mellow, darker style of Vienna lager. The popularity of the Toluca y Mexico beers was such that Graf frequently had difficulty filling orders and was forced to seek outside investors to rapidly increase production.\n\nCurrent popular brands of Graf style Viennas include major brands such as Negra Modelo, Nocha Buena, and Dos Equis Amber.\n\nGraf died on August 31, 1904 from endocarditis vegetations as a complication of an ongoing infection and is buried in Toluca, Mexico\n"}
{"id": "51118019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51118019", "title": "Shane Benis", "text": "Shane Benis\n\nShane Benis is an entrepreneur in Shanghai, China. He is the founder/CEO of China Sports Promotions and producer of White Collar Boxing International, a leading event management company promoting white-collar boxing in the Asian Pacific. While born in London, Shane spent most of his childhood in Kampala, Uganda which is where his father originates from.\n\n2008\n\nBenis organised the first white collar boxing event in Shanghai China with 320 attendees. Several entrepreneurs based in Shanghai assisted in the events delivery including the Australian entrepreneur Andrew Collins from Mailman group.\n\n2011\n\nCreated Golden Gloves Boxing gym, the only dedicated boxing gym in Shanghai. The gym has trained over 5,000 people.\n\n2012\n\nCreated China Sports Promotions who's mandate was to facilitate boxing participation and understanding in China. Up until this point boxing events was still a hobby.\n\n2012\n\nThe first white collar boxing event was organised in Beijing. Named Brawl On The Wall, the event saw 400 people in attendance.\n\n2014\n\nOrganised the first white collar boxing event in Macao at The Venetian Macao for 720 guests. The event was attended by boxing personalities such as announcer Michael Buffer and Boxing Hall of Fame Coach Freddy Roach.\n\n2015\n\nShane took the next major step to develop the sport of boxing in China by partnering with online television platform Sohu.com to create the reality television show 'White Collar Boxing'. Only available to watch in China, the show aired over 8 weeks featuring local and expatriate business men and women living in Shanghai. The show received a modest 8 million views.\n\nShane has been an avid supporter of charitable events since attending university in London. His events have helped support Leo's Foundation and the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at Fudan University Children's Hospital.\n"}
{"id": "58730865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58730865", "title": "Singapore Malay Chamber of Commerce and Industry", "text": "Singapore Malay Chamber of Commerce and Industry\n\nThe Singapore Malay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SMCCI) is a non-profit organization, established in 1956 to support the Malay/Muslim business community in Singapore.\n\nThe Singapore Malay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SMCCI) was first established in 1956 as the Singapore Malay Chamber of Commerce (SMCC) by a group of Malay/Muslim businessmen, including the first President of Singapore, Yusof Ishak. Its establishment was initially intended to look after the trading interests of the Malay/Muslim business community, however, its name was later changed to its current name in 1995 to reflect its wider scope.\n\nIn 2006, SME Centre @ SMCCI was established as a one-stop centre for local small and medium enterprises (SMEs).\n\nIn 2016, The SMCCI celebrated its 60th anniversary and helped set up global hub along with SPRING Singapore and International Enterprise Singapore which would identify food firms scale up their halal exports.\n\nIn 2018, The SMCCI collaborated with Enterprise Singapore and One Kampong Glam Association in a project led by Infocomm Media Development Authority to digitalize businesses within the Kampong Glam vicinity.\n\n\n\nSince its establishment, SMCCI has played an active role in the facilitation of its members’ trade activities and acts as a point of contact between local and international sellers and consumers.\n\nSMCCI collates information on business opportunities and disseminates it among its members. Like other recognised chambers of commerce, SMCCI is authorised to endorse certificates of origin as needed by exporters. Today, SMCCI continues to work in representing the interests of the local Malay/Muslim business community and serves as a platform to create opportunities for members through regular business missions, conferences, networking sessions and activities. Now, with its subsidiary, SME Centre@SMCCI, works to strengthen capabilities and encourage local SMEs to adopt technologies and expand their business overseas.\n\nSince 2010, SMCCI has been hosting Malay/Muslim Business Conference for sharing industry knowledge and expertise with the participation of successfull Malay/Muslim entrepreneurs. In 2014, Prime minister Lee Hsien Loong and Yaacob Ibrahim, the Minister for Communications and Information attended the event as the Guest of Honor and gave a speech at the conference.\n"}
{"id": "39281978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39281978", "title": "Steve Bolton (entrepreneur)", "text": "Steve Bolton (entrepreneur)\n\nSteve Bolton (born 18 December 1967) is a leading British entrepreneur, property investor, author and philanthropist. He is the Founder and Executive Chairman of the franchised businesses Platinum Property Partners and Platinum Business Partners.\n\nBolton’s personal vision is to help as many people as possible to achieve greater wealth, health and happiness and his mission and that of the Platinum companies is to help others be more, do more, have more and give more in life.\n\nThe son of a Lancashire miner turned professional footballer (for Bournemouth, Ipswich Town and Durban City) and a French mother (a hairdresser), Bolton was born in Bournemouth, lived in South Africa between the ages of two and five, and then returned to Bournemouth where he attended Winton Junior and Secondary schools.\n\nAt an early age, with encouragement from his father, Bolton was interested in wealth creation, following stocks and shares from the age of eight and writing basic computer programmes with the goal of predicting the outcome of horse races at the age of 13. Bolton was also exposed to property investment at an early age when his parents purchased a block of 16 flats and converted them into holiday apartments when he was 11 years of age. The family lived in one of the flats and Bolton spent his summer holidays helping his family run the business and working alongside his father as a carpenter's mate.\n\nBolton attended Winton Boys Secondary school and left aged 16 with no qualifications. After working a variety of jobs including as a kitchen porter and shelf stacker at a local supermarket, Bolton decided to follow his love of sports and the outdoors and accepted an apprenticeship working in outdoor pursuits.\n\nBolton worked as an outdoor pursuits instructor at the Joseph Allnatt chain of activity centres on the south coast of England where he was quickly promoted to hold the position of head of activities, with 25 staff reporting to him at the age of 19. He was then headhunted in 1992 to help set up and establish Brenscombe Outdoor Pursuits as the most senior member of staff.\n\nBolton decided in 1994 that he wanted to ‘be his own boss’ and he joined the recently established Ropes Course Developments (RCD) as a shareholder and Director.\n\nThe company went on to build high and low adventure ropes courses for Center Parcs, First Choice Holidays, the Royal Air Force and many others across Europe and in South Africa.\n\nHe was a co-founder of a national association and helped to push through safety standards for both the construction and training of ropes courses. These standards were ratified industry-wide and paved the way for the mainstream adoption of high and low ropes courses, which are now commonplace in the UK.\n\nAs the business grew, Bolton established Vision Development Training, which operated out of Wokefield Park, now the De Vere Wokefield Estate in Reading. The company provided experiential outdoor personal, management and organisational development programmes for blue chip clients like British Airways, Microsoft and KPMG, as well as other high-profile organisations including the British Lions.\n\nIn the early 2000’s, Bolton and his partners set up the outdoor activity facilities and businesses, Aerial Extreme and Head 4 Heights.\n\nFollowing what he describes in his book as the ‘best worst experience’ of his life when the 2001 outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Britain and the economic fallout that followed the 9/11 attacks, meant that the market demand dried up and pushed Ropes Course Developments into liquidation, Bolton had to sell his family home to avoid bankruptcy in early 2002.\n\nBolton decided to exit all business interests related to ropes courses in early 2002.\n\nStill an entrepreneur at heart, Bolton set about starting his first ‘virtual’ business and Mobile Team Challenge Europe (MTC) was formed. The company became the European distributor for Mobile Team Challenge in America and it imported training equipment from the USA and sold it to clients in the UK and Europe. MTC was a business where Bolton employed no staff, needed no office premises, never handled the products and was able to work on a very part-time basis by outsourcing most of the work. The business generated a consistent six figure annual net profit for several years in succession before being sold to an investor.\n\nAlongside running MTC, Bolton invested significant time and money to learn how to build a robust income stream for himself and his family through investing in property. Two years of very intensive research, learning and development between 2002 and 2004 took him all over the world and he was mentored and taught by the best investors that he could find.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2007, Bolton purchased £6 million of residential property and converted most of them into high quality Houses in Multiple Occupancy (HMOs), producing average annual returns of 15% and providing affordable shared homes to 80 tenants.\n\nHaving developed his own portfolio, he acted on his accountant's suggestion to develop a franchise, which would enable others to build their own profitable portfolios following his model.\n\nBolton founded and launched Platinum Property Partners on 1 July 2007, with the goal of enabling its Franchise Partners to quickly, safely and successfully build profitable residential property portfolios in the UK, and to create more new and affordable rental homes for key workers and working professionals.\n\nPlatinum Property Partners (known as PPP) has since become the fastest growing premium franchise in UK history.\n\nPPP is a successful and socially responsible franchise business that has helped over 250 Franchise Partners (as of January 2017) to source, own, develop and manage more than 800 buy to let properties) with a combined value of £250 million and an annual rent roll in excess of £36 million per annum. This portfolio provides high quality and affordable homes for over 5,000 tenants in over 100 towns, cities and London boroughs in England, Wales, Scotland and Australia.\n\nTenants who live in PPP properties spend a lower percentage of their income on rent, enabling them to save more of their income each month, thereby accelerating their path onto the property ladder for those that have that goal in mind.\n\nPPP is award-winning and a full member of British Franchise Association\n\nPlatinum’s Franchise Partners are currently buying and developing property at a rate of around £10 million every three months, creating around 1,000 new rooms for young professionals in shared homes annually.\n\nIn 2016 Bolton and his partners expanded the tried, tested and proven Platinum franchising brand and system diversified into ecommerce and became the co-Founder of Platinum Business Partners (known as PBP), which helps its clients set up their own successful ecommerce businesses. The organisation currently has over 80 Franchise Partners selling more than 300 product lines to 100,000 individual online customers globally.\n\nThe business supports it Franchise Partners in sourcing and buying products wholesale from places like China and the USA and then marketing and selling them through retail ecommerce platforms like Amazon, Shopify and others. It also helps existing retail business owners pivot and turn their ‘bricks and mortar’ business, into a ‘bricks and clicks’ business.\n\nAlways keen to lead by example, Bolton also formed an ecommerce business in 2016 with two partners and this provides a growing range of dog supplements under the Buddy & Lola brand.\n\nBolton also has interests in residential and commercial property projects. He is a co-founder of Platinum Asset Management, which owns a range of commercial property providing inspiring workspaces for small businesses, some retail shops and three hotels in a prime development location in the town centre of Bournemouth. He also has interests in multiple ecommerce businesses.\n\nBolton is a Life Patron of the not-for-profit organisation Peace One Day. For more than a decade he worked with the organisation and helped to raise millions of pounds in funding.\n\nThe charity is dedicated to achieving global ceasefire and non-violence for one day every year on 21 September and is ratified by the United Nations. 13 million people are estimated to be acting more peacefully as a result of Peace Day (source McKinsey's).\n\nThe organisation has also seen 4.5 million children being vaccinated against polio in previously unreachable areas after Peace One Day ambassador Jude Law travelled to Afghanistan to spearhead a campaign.\n\nDuring his involvement with Peace One Day from 2007 to 2015, Bolton created and led the Patrons programme where he helped to ensure that the organisation was on a sound financial footing. He also led a project to acquire, fund, purchase and convert offices premises in Richmond, Surrey, which continue to be the headquarters for Peace One Day.\n\nBolton and his Platinum businesses have also provided funding to the King’s Kid Orphanage in Mitiana, Uganda since 2007. This funding and investment has resulted in the purchase and construction of housing, classrooms, a deep water well, farming land as well as food, teachers’ salaries, secure accommodation for the orphanage director, medical procedures and further education funding for orphanage. The orphanage is home to 300 children and is self-sustaining.\n\nBolton’s book, Successful Property Investing, was an Amazon bestseller and has been updated three times since first publication in 2008.\n\nHe is also a keynote speaker having spoken on stages alongside Richard Reed (Innocent), Simon Woodroffe (YO!), James Caan (Dragons Den), Kriss Akabussi (World Champion athlete), Davina McCall, Ben Fogle, Michael Gerber (Emyth) and many others.\n\nHis primary keynote talk is ‘Standing on the Shoulders of Giants’ which promotes the core concept Bolton believes in passionately - ‘everyone should have a mentor’.\n\nBolton also speaks regularly and for free at local schools and universities on the subject of wealth, health and happiness, as well as entrepreneurship, principles of success and personal development. He is passionate about inspiring the next generation of entrepreneurs.\n\nIn 2016 Bolton co-founded and continues to lead a grassroots not-for-profit campaign called Axe the Tenant Tax.\n\nIn a UK first, Bolton united the private rented sector by forming a Coalition of all of the major organisations who are opposed to new government legislation that restricts landlords’ ability to deduct mortgage finance costs as a business expense. Coalition stakeholders represent more than 100,000 landlords who provide housing to more than 1 million tenants in the UK.\n\nBolton and fellow landlord Chris Cooper were co-claimants in a Judicial Review against the UK government in relation to the legality of Section 24 of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2015. Their legal team was led by Cherie Blair CBE QC and their legal challenge campaign broke two legal crowdfunding records in 2016 by raising over £200,000 within the fastest recorded timeframe.\n\nThe campaign has been covered in hundreds of media articles, and Bolton has met the housing Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer and MPs. Bolton believes the tax is a disaster for the UK housing market and is championing the cause for the small landlords and tenants who will suffer badly if this tax comes into force.\n\nTheir Judicial Review was thwarted at the High Court on 6 October 2016. Bolton and Cooper have since focussed their campaign efforts on lobbying the UK government and working with MPs and Tenant Tax coalition members to get the government to do a U-turn.\n\nFor six years Bolton was a mentor for the Key Person of Influence programme, mentoring several thousand entrepreneurs and business owners during that time in a group setting.\n\nBolton provides high impact one to one mentoring to multi-millionaires, celebrities and global change-makers. His mentoring efforts in recent years have focussed around ‘mentoring the mentors’ and all of the Platinum franchise businesses have at their core, a one to one mentoring approach that the Platinum team deliver.\n\nBolton and his businesses have been featured on a number of TV programmes and in media outlets including BBC, Channel Four, Sky News, Financial Times, Sunday Times, The Telegraph, Guardian, Express, the Mail and many trade publications in the franchise, entrepreneur, property and business sectors.\n\nHe is often quoted in national media in relation to franchising, property, entrepreneurship and mentoring.\n\nSteve Bolton lives in Bournemouth with his wife, four children and two dogs. He takes three months holiday every year with his family and has done since 2004. His personal interests include parenting, world-travel, boating, sport and spear fishing, free-diving, health and juicing, running and he is a keen AFC Bournemouth season ticket holder. Bolton is also an avid reader and learner with a personal library of books, audio programmes and DVD’s valued in excess of £100,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "24750968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24750968", "title": "The 50th Law", "text": "The 50th Law\n\nThe 50th Law is a \"New York Times\" bestselling book on strategy and fearlessness written collaboratively by rapper 50 Cent and author Robert Greene. The book is a semi-autobiographical account detailing 50 Cent's rise as both a young urban hustler and as an up-and-coming musician with lessons and anecdotes from historical figures such as Abraham Lincoln, Sun Tzu, Socrates, Napoleon, Malcolm X, and James Baldwin.\n\n\"The 50th Law\" grew out of the friendship and mutual admiration between 50 Cent and Robert Greene. Greene's book \"The 48 Laws of Power\", which has long been a staple in the hip hop world, came to the attention of 50 Cent, who asked his manager to arrange a meeting. Greene said that he was surprised by 50 Cent's persona and was impressed by his \"Zen-like calmness\" and eye for strategy. The two began to work on a book project that would combine their two worlds.\n\nAccording to Greene, 50 Cent is an example of what Machiavelli called a \"New Prince,\" a leader who emerges in a time of chaos or turmoil and rewrites the rules. According to 50 Cent, Greene's books describe the laws and strategies used by hustlers on the street, even if they might not know the \"technical terms\" for what they were doing.\n\nEach of the 10 chapters in the book explains a factor of fearlessness and begins by telling how 50 Cent learned this Fearless Philosophy in Southside Queens. \"The 50th Law\" illustrates the laws of the book by supplementing anecdotes from 50 Cent's life with historical examples from Malcolm X, Miles Davis, Sun Tzu, François de La Rochefoucauld, Machiavelli, Richard Wright, James Baldwin, Thucydides, Dostoyevsky, Charlie Parker, and the Baron de Montesquieu.\n\nThe book debuted at #5 on \"The New York Times\" Bestseller list and was a \"USA Today\" bestseller. The book was met with positive reviews, with the \"New York Post\" calling \"The 50th Law\" \"a modern day \"Art of War\",\" \"The Guardian\" referring to the book as \"a manual on power similar to the works of Machiavelli and Sun Tzu,\" and \"Library Journal\" stating that \"The 50th Law\" is written for \"anyone interested in how to succeed in business and the game of life.\"\n\nThe book was also featured in \"The New York Times\", MSNBC, \"Huffington Post\", \"The Sun\", \"The New York Daily News\", \"Forbes\", Business Insider, \"Fast Company\", \"The Telegraph\", MTV, \"Vibe\" and \"Billboard\". In promotion of the book, Greene and 50 Cent appeared on \"The Today Show\", CNBC, ABC, BBC and MTV News. \"The 50th Law\" was also published as a 60-page comic book.\n\n"}
{"id": "10038099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10038099", "title": "The Strategy Paradox", "text": "The Strategy Paradox\n\nThe Strategy Paradox is a business strategy book by author Michael E. Raynor, who is the Distinguished Fellow with Deloitte Research. \"The Strategy Paradox\" was published in 2007 by Currency/Doubleday. It was named a top ten book of 2007 by \"BusinessWeek\", and a top five strategy book of 2007 by \"Strategy+Business\".\n\n\"The Strategy Paradox\", the title and focus of the book sets up a ubiquitous but little-understood tradeoff. The tradeoff is that most strategies are built on specific beliefs about an unpredictable future, but current strategic approaches force leaders to commit to an inflexible strategy regardless of how the future might unfold. It is this commitment to uncertainty that is the cause of \"the strategy paradox.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39402721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39402721", "title": "Tullio Liblik", "text": "Tullio Liblik\n\nTullio Liblik (born November 12, 1964 in Kuressaare) is an Estonian entrepreneur, the CEO and member of the board of the investment company Saarte Investeering and the chairman of the council of Kuressaare Regional Training Centre.\n\n\n\nTullio Liblik made his first step into the business world in 1993 when he founded AS Ösel Foods in cooperation with Toivo Alt and Carl-Erik Sunblad. AS Ösel Foods specialized on the manufacturing of soft drinks. For raw material supply they also founded AS Marjakasvatus which specialized in the growing of strawberries. In 1997 Ösel Foods grew its business to Russia. In a factory owned by Ösel Food in Moscow, they started to produce ketchup. In 1999 they bought Paljassaare Fish Industry, from the Norwegians, which produced fish sticks. Tullio Liblik exited the food industry in 2001 when he sold his stocks of AS Ösel Foods to Carl-Erik Sunblad.\n\nIn the same year Tullio Liblik founded the company Saarte Investeering, that specializes in real estate development and business consultations. The biggest real estate developments of Saarte Investeering are Merikotka housing estate in Kuressaare, Hirvepargi housing estate in Sauga, Pärnu county and four multistorey buildings in the city centre of Tallinn.\nSaarte Investeering has led real estate developments in Saaremaa, Kuressaare, in Tallinn and in Sauga parish in Pärnu county. Saarte Investeering has contributed the most to dwelling construction. Many other enterprises founded by Tullio Liblik, such as Saaremaa’s office of the real estate bureau OÜ A&A Kinnisvara and OÜ Energiamaja Konsultatsioonid, are also operating in real estate developing. In 2013 OÜ Energiamaja, that specializes in the construction of low-energy houses, started the housing development of 407 terraced houses in Peetri village in Rae parish, Harju county.\n\nIn 2001 Tullio Liblik founded OÜ Roheline Ring and participated in the founding of Estonia’s first wind farm. In 2002 a wind farm, consisting of three wind turbines, started to operate in Virtsu with a total capacity of 1,8 MW of power. Two wind turbines out of three were owned by Roheline Ring and one by Eesti Energia. In 2005 Roheline Ring installed a wind farm of four wind turbines with a total capacity of 8 MW in Lääne County, Rõuste. Via the investment company Saarte Investeering, Tullio Liblik was also a stakeholder of Paldiski wind farm. Altogether, he has participated in the construction of five wind farms that operate up to the present time. In 2007 Tullio Liblik sold his shares of the wind farms.\n\nIn 2005 the investment company Saarte Investeering, owned by Tullio Liblik, acquired the lion’s share in E-Profiil, a company manufacturing large steel structures. In 2011 Liblik sold his shares of the company E-Profiil.\n\nSince 2002 Tullio Liblik has been the member of the council of Kuressaare Regional Training Centre, and has also been voted for the chairman of the council. In 2007 Tullio Liblik became the member of the Estonian Association for Advancement of Vocational Education and has been active in informing the vocational education leaders about the expectations of entrepreneurs. As the chairman of the council of Kuressaare Regional Training Centre he has initiated various educational projects and has been developing the Training Centre’s international cooperation.\n\n\nIn 2007-2011 OÜ Saarte Investeering supported the pupils and their tutors of Saare county who had achieved spectacular results in Estonian and international olympiads and national exams. Year by year Saarte Investeering has added new entrepreneurs in the supporters’ circle of the successful pupils, who are proceeding with the support project up to the present time.\n\nSince 2010 Saarte Investeering has supported the Graduate of the Year of Kuressaare Adults’ Gymnasium with a scholarship. Starting from the same year, he has also been the main sponsor of the Football championship of Saare County.\n\nIn 2012 Saarte Investeering signed a cooperation contract with Kuressaare Regional Training Centre. According to the contract, every five years Saarte Investeering awards one graduate of Kuressaare Regional Training Centre with a scholarship, who will proceed to acquire a higher education in the same field in Estonia or abroad.\n\nAt the acknowledgement event ’’Eestimaa õpib ja tänab’’ held in 2011, SA Innove in cooperation with Estonian Ministry of Education and Research and Estonian Education Personnel Union acknowledged the CEO of Saarte Investeering, Tullio Liblik as the ’best friend and supporter of education’ in Saare County region.\n\nIn 2005, motivated by an article that was published in Eesti Ekspress, an investigation of the entitlement and possible corruption factors concerning the swap of rural land properties under nature conservation protection was started. In 2009 the Office of the Prosecutor General brought charges to the partakers of the Land Swap Case. Tullio Liblik was accused of bribing. Besides Liblik two members of Riigikogu, Villu Reiljan and Ester Tuiksoo, businessmen Toomas Annus, Einar Vettus and Tarmo Pedjasaar, also Kalev Kangur, the former Director General of Estonian Land Board, and corporate bodies AS Järvevana and AS E.L.L. Kinnisvara were accused.\n\nIn 2012, Harju County Court acquitted all the defendants of the Land Swap Case of and ordered the state to pay court costs of the defendats.\n\nSaarte Investeering and MaxKinnisvara started their cooperation in 2004 in order to construct the Hirvepargi housing development in Sauga parish, Pärnu County. By the year 2007 twelve houses had been erected when the project needed additional financing to proceed with the construction. The owners of MaxKinnisvara didn’t want to add any more money to the initial investment of 20,000 euros and, as a consequence, disagreements arose between the partners.\n\nOngoing disagreements resulted in ordering a hit in 2010.\n\nThe police managed to prevent the hit and Andrus Sukles was arrested.\n\nHarju County Court found that Sukles wished to kill his former business partner and also made preparations to achieve that. However, Sukles was acquitted.\n\nSince 2012 Tullio Liblik is a member of the board of Tallinn Cigar Club\n\n\nTullio Liblik is the first child of her mother.\n\n"}
{"id": "1371397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371397", "title": "Turbot War", "text": "Turbot War\n\nThe Turbot War (known in Spain as Guerra del Fletán) was an international fishing dispute between Canada (supported by the United Kingdom and Ireland) and Spain (supported by the European Union and Iceland) in which Canada stopped a Spanish fishing trawler from Galicia in international waters and arrested its crew. Canada claimed that European Union factory ships were illegally overfishing Greenland halibut, also known as Greenland turbot, on the Grand Banks, just outside Canada's declared exclusive economic zone (EEZ).\n\nTerritorial seas have changed over time, having begun with a \"cannon shot\" territorial sea, followed by the long-standing extension to a standard. The economic control of the waters surrounding nations to a exclusive economic zones (EEZ) were agreed at the conference on the Third United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1982, and became recognised internationally on November 14, 1994. As a self-governing colony and dominion, Newfoundland's foreign policy, just as Canada's, was established by the British government until the Statute of Westminster 1931. However, in 1934, Newfoundland's government voted to be put under the administration of a commission appointed by London; this situation remained until 1949 when the dominion entered Canadian Confederation.\n\nFollowing Confederation, Canada recognized many of the foreign policy agreements Newfoundland had entered under this commission. During the 1950s to the 1970s, the domestic and foreign fishing fleets became increasingly industrialized, with massive factory freezer trawlers fishing out of Newfoundland ports – foreign fleets were based in Newfoundland and could fish 12 nautical miles offshore, while domestic fleets could fish in both the territorial sea and the offshore.\n\nBy the 1970s the overfishing by industrial vessels in the waters of the other provinces of eastern Canada was evident, although each subsequent federal government continued to ignore this problem, and even contributed to it by using the issuance of fishing licenses for more inshore and offshore domestic vessels. Between 1973 and 1982 the United Nations and its member states negotiated the Third Convention of the Law of the Sea – one component of which was the concept of nations being allowed to declare an EEZ. Although not adopted into international law until 1982, the possibility of declaring an EEZ became a \"de facto\" reality in 1977 with the conclusion of those sections of the Third Conference negotiations relating to maritime boundary and economic control.\n\nMany nations worldwide declared 200-nautical-mile EEZs, including Canada and the United States. The EEZ boundaries became a foreign policy issue where overlapping claims existed, as was the case between Canada and the United States in the Gulf of Maine, Dixon Entrance, Strait of Juan de Fuca and Beaufort Sea, as well as between Canada and France in the case of St. Pierre and Miquelon.\n\nBut on the whole, for fishermen in eastern Canada, it meant they could fish unhindered out to the limit without fear of competing with the foreign fleets. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, Canada's domestic offshore fleet grew as fishermen and fish processing companies rushed to take advantage. It was also during this time when it was noticed that the foreign fleets now pushed out to 200 nautical miles offshore and excluded from the rich Canadian waters, were increasing their harvest on the small areas of the Grand Banks that were outside the area of the EEZ.\n\nBy the late 1980s the smaller catches of Northern cod were being reported throughout the Atlantic coast of Canada as the federal government and citizens of coastal regions in the area began to face the reality that the domestic and foreign overfishing had taken its toll. In the end stocks of cod in and around Canada's EEZ were severely depleted. Reluctant to act at a time of declining political popularity, the federal government was finally forced to take drastic action in 1992 when a total moratorium was declared indefinitely for the Northern Cod.\n\nThe immediate impact was felt most in Newfoundland, followed by the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia. The nascent Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization, organized after the 1977 EEZ declarations to coordinate conservation efforts in Canada, the United States, and member nations in Europe (both western and eastern bloc countries), also declared a ban, however it was implemented too late to be effective – cod which 5–10 years before was being caught in record numbers, had vanished almost overnight to the point where it was considered for endangered species protection.\n\nThe economic impact in coastal Newfoundland was unprecedented. To lessen the impact that its policies of permitting overfishing had exacted upon rural Newfoundlanders, the federal government swiftly created a relief program called \"The Atlantic Groundfish Strategy\" (TAGS) to provide short- to medium-term financial support, and employment retraining for the longer term.\n\nDespite TAGS, Newfoundland and coastal Nova Scotia were bleeding severely as communities began to experience an out-migration on a scale not seen in Canada since the prairie dust bowls of the 1930s. The anger at federal political figures was palpable and with the wholesale rejection of short-term Prime Minister Kim Campbell, incoming prime minister Jean Chrétien's Liberals were going to face the ongoing wrath of voters whose entire livelihoods had been decimated as a result of decades of federal neglect and mismanagement, and whose communities, property values, net worth, and way of life were declining rapidly.\nIn the years since the cod moratorium, federal fisheries policy makers and scientists had scrambled to attempt to find a replacement species that could at least reinject economic stimulus into the affected regions. The ground fishery, while a fraction of what it had been during the cod years, did have some bright spots – one of which was the Greenland halibut commonly known in Canada as turbot. The turbot had decreased in demand due to a common dislike for the taste in the European Union.\n\nCanada was not alone in recognizing the growing value of the turbot, and foreign fishing fleets operating off the 200-nautical-mile EEZ were beginning to pursue the species in increasing numbers. By 1994, Canada and NAFO had tracked about 50 violations of boats crossing the 200-nautical-mile EEZ limit to fish illegally within Canadian waters, as well as recording use of illegal gear and overfishing outside Canadian waters.\n\nThe new federal Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, Brian Tobin, directed the Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO), along with the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade (DFAIT) to begin a very aggressive dialogue with the European Union over the presence of its fishing fleet and its practices, particularly the use of illegal trawl nets just outside the Canadian EEZ while fishing for turbot. Tobin's critics in Canada noted that he was likely using his department as a political prop to shore up support during a time of increased social unrest in the region, yet in the winter of 1995, Tobin directed DFO to establish a legal argument which could be made for the seizure of a foreign vessel in international waters using the premise of conservation.\n\nMinister Tobin and the federal cabinet then told the DFO to demonstrate Canadian resolve on the issue by \"making an example\" of a European Union fishing vessel. On 9 March 1995, an offshore patrol aircraft detected the Spanish stern trawler \"Estai\" in international waters outside Canada's 200-nautical-mile EEZ. Armed DFO fisheries patrol vessels, Cape Roger, Leonard J. Cowley and Canadian Coast Guard Ship Sir Wilfred Grenfell, intercepted and pursued \"Estai\", which cut its weighted trawl net and fled after an initial boarding attempt, resulting in a several hours' chase which ended after the Canadian Fisheries Patrol vessel \"Cape Roger\" fired a .50 calibre (12.7 mm) machine gun across the bow of \"Estai\". The Canadian Coast Guard ship used high-pressure fire-fighting water cannon to deter other Spanish fishing vessels from disrupting the operation. Finally, armed DFO Fishery Officers and Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers boarded \"Estai\" in international waters on the Grand Banks.\n\n\"Estai\" was escorted to St. John's, arriving with great fanfare across the province and region — and the country. Canada's federal court processed the case and the charges against the crew while Spain and the European Union protested vehemently, threatening boycotts against Canada and wishing to have the case heard at the International Court of Justice.\n\nTobin and his department ignored the controversy and instead had the oversized trawl net which \"Estai\" had cut free salvaged. The DFO contracted a Fishery Products International ground fish trawler to drag for \"Estai\"s trawl. On the first attempt it retrieved the \"Estai\"s net which had been cut. It was found that \"Estai\" was using a liner with a mesh size smaller than permitted by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (NAFO). The net was shipped to New York City where Tobin called an international press conference on board a rented barge in the East River outside the United Nations headquarters. There, the net from \"Estai\" was displayed, hanging from an enormous crane, and Tobin used the occasion to shame the Spanish and EU governments, pointing out the small size of the holes in the net which are illegal in Canada. Spain never denied that the net was from \"Estai\" but continued to protest Canada's use of \"extra-territorial force\". The Spanish government asked the International Court of Justice in The Hague, Netherlands, for leave to hear a case claiming that Canada had no right to detain \"Estai\". However, the court later refused the case. Later, Canada released the crew of \"Estai\". On the same day that Tobin was in New York, the United Kingdom blocked an EU proposal to impose sanctions on Canada.\n\nTobin claimed that Canada would not enter negotiations as long as illegal fishing continued, and demanded the withdrawal of all fishing vessels in the area as a precondition. On March 15, the owners of \"Estai\" posted $500,000 bond for the vessel, and it was returned to Spain. Subsequently, the rest of the fishing fleet also left the area, and preliminary talks were scheduled for the upcoming G7 conference. These talks failed, as the Spanish refused to change their position, and Spanish fishing vessels subsequently returned to Grand Banks. Spain also implemented a visa mandate for all Canadians visiting, or planning to visit Spain. This resulted in several Canadians being deported from Spain who had been legally in Spain up until the moment the visa mandate was adopted. The visa mandate was later overturned by the EU in 1996. The Spanish Navy deployed the \"Atalaya\" to protect its country's fishing vessels. The Spanish Navy also prepared a surface task group with frigates and tankers, but Spain eventually decided against sending it. Negotiations ceased on March 25, and the following day, Canadian ships cut the nets of the Spanish trawler \"Pescamero Uno\". The Spanish Navy responded by deploying a second patrol boat. Canadian warships and patrol planes in the vicinity were authorized by Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chrétien to fire on Spanish vessels that exposed their guns. Direct negotiations between the EU and Canada eventually restarted, and a deal was reached on April 5. Spain, however, rejected it, demanding better terms. After Canada threatened to forcibly remove Spanish fishing vessels, the EU pressured Spain into finally reaching a settlement on April 15. Canada reimbursed the $500,000 that had been paid for \"Estai\"s release, repealed the CFPR provision that allowed the arrest of Spanish vessels, and a reduction of Canada's own Turbot allocation. A new international regime to observe EU and Canadian fishing vessels was also created.\n\nThe dispute raised Brian Tobin's political profile, helping to preserve his political career in Newfoundland at a time when federal politicians were being increasingly vilified. It also led to his decision in 1996 to pursue to the leadership of the Liberal Party of Newfoundland following the resignation of premier Clyde Wells, as well as a widely discussed future possibility for leadership of the Liberal Party of Canada.\n\nAlthough Spain was getting political support from the EU (including naval support from Germany among others), the United Kingdom and Ireland supported Canada. The then prime-minister John Major risked his status within the EU community by actively speaking out against Spain. Because of this, some British fishing boats took to flying Canadian flags to show their support. This brought the conflict to European waters when a Cornish fishing boat, \"Newlyn\", then flying the Canadian flag, was arrested by a French ship that believed it to be Canadian. This dragged Britain from its position of passive backing into full support of the Canadians. Overnight, Canadian flags began to fly from all manner of British and Irish vessels.\n\nThe rest of the EU rallied behind France and Spain, but hesitated to make any mobilizations against the British, Irish, or Canadians.\n\nUpon hearing the news of the conflict, Iceland spoke up and took the side of the EU against Britain in light of their similar clash with the British, known as the Cod Wars. As with the EU, no military mobilization took place. Iceland tried to put political pressure on the United Kingdom and Ireland. The British and the Irish pointedly ignored these actions and continued their unquestioned support of Brian Tobin and the Canadians.\n\nIn the end \"Newlyn\" was returned to the British without further incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9327309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9327309", "title": "Yury Komarov (businessman)", "text": "Yury Komarov (businessman)\n\nYury Alexandrovich Komarov (in , born 1945 in Novosibirsk, Soviet Union) is a Russian businessman.\n\nIn August 1996 – January 1999 he was the Director General of Gazexport, export subsidiary of Gazprom. In July–August 2002 he was the acting Director General of Gazexport. From 21 January 2002 until 12 May 2005 he was a Deputy Chairman of the Management Committee of Gazprom.\n\nFrom October 2005 until February 2008 Komarov was a general director of Sevmorneftegaz, a subsidiary of Gazprom, which owns license to develop the Shtokman gas field. From February 2008 to April 2010 he was a head of Shtokman Development AG, the developer of Shtokman field.\n\nKomarov is a member of the Coordination Committee of RosUkrEnergo.\n\nIn March 2004 he was appointed Representative of Russia in the business advisory council of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum for the 2004-2006 period by President Vladimir Putin. \n"}
